{"id": "1879171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879171", "title": "Womanist theology", "text": "Womanist theology\n\nWomanist theology is a religious conceptual framework which reconsiders and revises the traditions, practices, scriptures, and biblical interpretation with a special lens to empower and liberate African-American women in America. Womanist theology associates with and departs from Feminist theology and Black theology specifically because it integrates the perspectives and experiences of African American and other women of color. The former's lack of attention to the everyday realities of women of color and the latter's lack of understanding of the full dimension of liberation from the unique oppressions of black women require bringing them together in Womanist Theology. \n\nThe goals of womanist theology include interrogating the social construction of black womanhood in relation to the black community and to assume a liberatory perspective so African American women can live emboldened lives within the African American community and within the larger society. Some of its tasks are excavating the life stories of poor women of African descent in the church and to understanding the \"languages\" of black women.\n\nThe term \"womanish\" was commonly used in Black daily language by mothers to describe adolescent daughters who act outrageous and grown-up, in contrast to \"girlish\". \"Womanist\" was then developed in 1983 by black writer and activist Alice Walker in her collection of essays, \"In Search of Our Mothers' Gardens: Womanist Prose\". In this text, she makes the point that \"A Womanist is to feminist as purple is to lavender.\" Hence, while \"womanist\" referred primarily to African-American women, it was also for women in general. Walker's works would have significant impact on later womanist theologians.\n\nThe roots of modern womanist theology grew out of the theology of James Hal Cone, Katie G. Cannon, Jacquelyn Grant, and Delores Williams. Cone developed black theology which sought to make sense out of theology from black experience in America. In his book \"A Black Theology of Liberation,\" Cone argued that \"God is black\" in an effort to demonstrate that God identifies with oppressed black Americans. Grant, a first-generation womanist theologian, argued that Cone did not attend to the fullness of black experience – specifically that of black women. She argued that the oppression of black women is different from that of black men. \n\nGrant pointed out that lower-class black women must navigate between the threefold oppression of racism, sexism, and classism in her books \"Womanist Theology\" and \"White Women's Christ and Black Women's Jesus: Feminist Christology and Womanist Response.\" For her, Jesus is a \"divine co-sufferer\" who suffered in his time like black women today. Grant concludes that black women are more oppressed and in need of further liberation than black men and especially white women. \n\nDelores Williams took the work of theologians such as Cone and Grant and expanded upon them. She suggested that womanist theologians need to \"search for the voices, actions, opinions, experience, and faith\" of black women in order to experience the God who \"makes a way out of no way.\" She defines womanist in the following way:\n\nWomanist theologians use a variety of methods to approach the scripture. Some attempt to find black women within the biblical narrative so as to reclaim the role and identity of black people in general, and black women specifically, within the Bible. Examples include the social ethicist Cheryl Sanders and the womanist theologian Karen Baker-Fletcher. Some approach the Bible \"objectively\" to critically evaluate text that degrades women and people of color and to offer an African-centered form, to resist male domination and bias, or what could be termed anti-women or androcentric attitudes and forms. Others draw on resources outside the Bible to enhance the plurality and cohesion of the texts along with our life experiences and reject scripture as a whole or part which is seen to serve male interest only. These methods are not separated and can be endorsed together.\n\nPatricia-Anne Johnson writes that \"Renita J. Weems, a womanist professor and scholar of the Hebrew Bible, examines scripture as a world filled with women of color. Through the use of womanist imagination, Weems helps students to understand female roles, personalities, and woman-to-woman relationships during the time when the biblical texts were written.\" Johnson, quoting further from Weems, also shows how Hagar and Esther can be seen as models of resistance for black women: \"Womanism may be envisioned as a post-colonial discourse that allows African-American women to embrace a Jesus and a God free of the imperialism of white supremacy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879173", "title": "Peperami", "text": "Peperami\n\nPeperami is a salami sausage snack manufactured by Jack Link's. It is manufactured in Ansbach, Germany and sold in the United Kingdom and Ireland, across multiples and independent retailers.\n\nThe snack has multiple variants made with pork, and Peperami launched a beef variant in 2017. A Peperami and Cheese Snack Box was added to the range in November 2018 and Peperami also launched a chicken variant called 'Pep'd up Chicken Bites' in April 2019.\n\nPeperami was previously owned by Unilever within larger global meat snacking portfolio. Citing a struggle to make meat-snacking fit within its global portfolio, Unilever announced on 21 February 2014 that it had signed a definitive agreement for the sale of its meat snacks business to Jack Link’s, for an undisclosed amount. The sale included the brands Bifi, sold in Germany, and Peperami, which retails in the UK and Ireland.\n\nThe Peperami ‘Animal’ has been the face of the Peperami brand since the early 1990s. The anthropomorphised sausage stick was created by Lowe and introduced in a 1993 television advertisement, accompanied by the strapline “Peperami, it’s a bit of an animal” (or some variation thereof). In 1996 a point and click PC-game called Animal was released.\n\nOriginally voiced by comedian Adrian Edmondson, the mascot was a continual presence in advertising between 1993 and 2011. After being retired between 2011 and 2014, the ‘Animal’ mascot returned to television campaigns in 2017.\n\nIn 2017, a new version of the Animal character – Beef – was introduced to announce the arrival of a new beef variation of Peperami. Beef Animal first appeared in media in 2018.\n\nIn recent years Peperami has run a number of campaigns and partnerships to relaunch Animal. These have included a 2016 partnership with the Angry Birds film and a 2018 promotional partnership with Merlin Entertainment, specifically their Thorpe Park and Alton Towers theme parks. In addition, the brand has launched several stunts to create media pick up around the mascot – both pork and beef.\n\nMost recently in 2018, Peperami have launched a media campaign with the tag line ‘Brothers From Another Mother’ promoting Original and Beef Animals. This is the first time the two Animals have been placed together within environmental or TV media.\n\nIn 2003, in an effort to retain appeal with a more health conscious market, Unilever worked to revise the Peperami formula to produce a product with a reduction in fat, saturated fat and salt content. \n\n"}
{"id": "1879178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879178", "title": "Minamiawaji", "text": "Minamiawaji\n\nThe modern city of Minamiawaji was established on January 11, 2005, from the merger of all four towns of the former Mihara District: Mihara, Midori, Nandan and Seidan. Minamiawaji also includes the small island of Nushima off the southeast coast of Awaji Island, which is only accessible by ferry.\n\nAs of April 1, 2017, the city had an estimated population of 45,961 and a population density of 200 persons per km². The total area is 229.17 km².\n\nMinamiawaji's soil and climate make it ideal for growing onions. As such, Awaji onions are renowned across Japan as sweet and delicious.\n\nMihara town in Minamiawaji is home to a puppet museum which houses numerous examples of locally crafted puppets. This art originated in the area.\n\nMinamiawaji is connected to the south with the island of Shikoku by the Ōnaruto Bridge. The area is famous for the Naruto whirlpools, which form when the changing tidal currents are forced through the Naruto Strait. Tourists can view the whirlpools from the bridge or numerous commercial boats.\n\nJointly with Awaji and Sumoto, the city operates a low-cost electric bike rental scheme, designed to attract visitors to stay for more than one day to explore the island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879179", "title": "Raffaele Esposito", "text": "Raffaele Esposito\n\nRaffaele Esposito () was an Italian chef and owner of a tavern called \"Pizzeria di Pietro e basta così\" (\"Pietro's Pizzeria and that's enough\") in the 19th century that had been founded in 1780 by Pietro Colicchio. Esposito is considered by some to be the father of modern pizza.\n\nIn 1889, pizza had not yet become a popular or well-known dish and was typically eaten by poor people as a way to use up various ingredients that would otherwise go to waste. At that time, Esposito was considered the premier pizza-maker in the city of Naples.\n\nEsposito was, therefore, requested to prepare a pizza for Queen Margherita of Savoy, who had traveled to Naples with King Umberto I. Esposito and his wife were admitted to the royal kitchens to prepare this dish as he saw fit. Deeming the traditional garlic topping to be unfit for the royal palate, Esposito instead prepared three different pizzas, the last of which used a combination of tomatoes, mozzarella cheese and basil to emulate the red, white, and green of the Italian flag. It is claimed by some sources that this was the first time pizza was made with mozzarella cheese.\n\nQueen Margherita, having never had pizza before, so enjoyed the dish that she had her head of table services send Esposito a letter to commend his pizzas, stating that they \"were found to be delicious\". Esposito used this recommendation to successfully promote his restaurant, naming the pizza most enjoyed by the Queen, \"Pizza Margherita\". The legend of pizza Margherita is considered a false history, as a pizza made with the same toppings was already present in Naples between 1796 and 1810.\n\nIt is widely reported that this event caused pizza to become a fad, from which it retained enduring popularity. Because of Esposito's experiments with ingredients and presentation, and his successful preparation of the dish for Queen Margherita, it is suggested by some that Esposito was the father of the modern pizza. Esposito's restaurant still exists, although the name has been changed to Pizzeria di Brandi, and the royal letter favoring Esposito's pizza is on display in the restaurant.\n"}
{"id": "1879185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879185", "title": "Vernon Hamersley", "text": "Vernon Hamersley\n\nVernon Hamersley (1871–1946) was an Australian politician. He served the longest term ever as a Member of the Western Australian Legislative Council.\n\nVernon Hamersley was born in Guildford, Western Australia. The son of Samuel Hamersley, he was a member of the prominent and well-connected Hamersley family. His grandfather was Edward Hamersley (Snr); among his uncles was Edward Hamersley (Jnr) and Maitland Brown; and he was related by blood or marriage to many prominent Western Australians including John Forrest and William Locke Brockman. \n\nHe was educated at Guildford Grammar School, before continuing his studies in England at the Magdalen College School at Oxford, and the Downton Agricultural College at Salisbury. \n\nHe returned to Western Australia in 1889, spending some time on the Eastern goldfields, before farming with his father at York until 1895. On the death of his grandfather in 1874, he inherited the station \"Hasely\" in Toodyay, which he developed as a farm and stud. He also became a part owner of Mount Barnett cattle station in the Kimberley. In 1895, he married Clara Hicks.\n\nHe first became active in public life in 1899, becoming a member of the Toodyay Road Board. He would later become its chairman before retiring his membership in 1906. In 1900 he became a Justice of the Peace, and the following year he unsuccessfully contested the Legislative Assembly seat of Toodyay as an independent.\n\nOn 5 August 1904, he won the Legislative Council seat of East Province in a by-election following the death of Edward Keane. He would be returned to the seat in the next six elections, holding the seat until his death. He joined the Liberal Party in 1911. \n\nHe won the May 1916 election by a single vote. Upon a recount, both Hamersley and his opponent, Michael McCabe of the Country Party, had attained 1,651 votes each, and Hamersley was elected on the casting vote of the Returning Officer. McCabe then petitioned the Court of Disputed Returns against Hamersley's election, with the result that the election was declared null and void. Hamersley appealed to the full court, but the appeal was dismissed. A by-election was subsequently held on 2 September 1916, with Hamersley winning re-election on a significantly higher turnout.\n\nAfter 1920, he held his seat for the Country Party, and from April 1921 he was Father of the House.\n\nHe died in West Perth on 24 October 1946. His term of 42 years, 2 months and 19 days remains the longest ever term as a member of the Western Australian Legislative Council.\n"}
{"id": "1879193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879193", "title": "Mons Vitruvius", "text": "Mons Vitruvius\n\nMons Vitruvius is a mountain on the Moon that is located in the Montes Taurus region just to the north of Mare Tranquillitatis and to the southeast of Mare Serenitatis. This massif is located at selenographic coordinates of 19.4° N, 30.8° E, and it has a diameter across the base of 15 km. It rises to a maximum height of about 2.3 km near the northeastern end. This mountain was named after the nearby crater Vitruvius, located to the south-southeast. The eponym for this crater is ancient Roman engineer and architect Marcus Vitruvius Pollio.\n\nThe Apollo 17 mission landed in the Taurus–Littrow valley to the north of this mountain. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879197", "title": "Isis (lunar crater)", "text": "Isis (lunar crater)\n\nIsis is a tiny lunar volcanic crater in the southeastern part of the Mare Serenitatis. It is located to the northeast of the small crater Dawes, and to the west of the Montes Taurus range. To the east-northeast of this position is the landing site of the Apollo 17 mission, in the Taurus–Littrow valley.\n\nIsis and nearby Osiris are located on conical uprises situated along a rille and are interpreted as small volcanic cones.\n\nThe name of the crater was approved by the IAU in 1976, and refers to an Egyptian female given name. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879205", "title": "Jerik (crater)", "text": "Jerik (crater)\n\nJerik is a tiny lunar impact crater in the southeastern part of the Mare Serenitatis. It is located to the northeast of the small crater Dawes, and to the west of the Montes Taurus range. To the east-northeast of this position is the landing site of the Apollo 17 mission, in the Taurus–Littrow valley.\n\nNext to Jerik is an even smaller (~100 m), unnamed crater with a bright ray system.\nThe name of the crater was approved by the IAU in 1976, and refers to a Scandinavian male given name. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879209", "title": "Boeing Pelican", "text": "Boeing Pelican\n\nThe Boeing Pelican ULTRA (Ultra Large TRansport Aircraft) was a proposed ground effect fixed-wing aircraft under study by Boeing Phantom Works.\n\nThe Boeing Pelican ULTRA is intended as a large-capacity transport craft initially for military use, with possible subsequent availability as a commercial freighter serving the world's largest cargo centers. It is significantly larger and more capable than the biggest existing commercial airliners, commercial freighters, and military airlifters. The Pelican is not targeted for civilian transportation, but it can be converted to a commercial airliner transporting up to 3,000 passengers.\n\nThe design process for what became the Pelican began in early 2000, when designers in the Phantom Works division of Boeing started working on solutions for the United States armed forces objective of moving thousands of troops, weapons, military equipment, and provisions to a war or battle scene faster, such as successfully deploying an Army brigade of 3,000 troops and of equipment within instead of the it required in the past. In particular, the Department of Defense had requested a vehicle of any mode (land, air, or sea) with the ability to move of cargo. Knowing that the United States Army was investigating large airships and airship-airplane hybrids, Boeing Phantom Works internally considered and rejected at least three known design iterations: a large blimp or dirigible airship, a smaller but wider airship that creates dynamic lift while in forward motion, and then back to a larger airship that flies at low altitude with wings spanning . It also looked at and discarded a fast oceangoing ship and a sea-based ground effect vehicle.\nBoeing Phantom Works then selected a land-based ground effect vehicle with high drooping wings as its solution. It applied for a patent in October 2001 on a ground effect airplane that would form the basis for the Pelican, aside from some eventually omitted design elements such as a T-tail, upward-pointing (positive dihedral) winglets, an additional middle row of landing gears, and a loading ramp at the back of the fuselage. The patent also listed open-ended fuselage compartment dimensions of at least high, wide, and long, with an aircraft wingspan of at least . Its example fuselage length and wingspan of and would come close to the final Pelican configuration, though.\n\nInitial artist drawings of the aircraft were made public in early 2002. In May 2002, Boeing applied for a patent on variable-sweep, downward-pointing (negative dihedral, or anhedral) winglets to help ground effect vehicles avoid water contact while minimizing aerodynamic drag; the patent drawings show a cylindrical fuselage, which may indicate that a pressurized aircraft was considered at the time, although the final Pelican design has an unpressurized fuselage. The next month, without explicitly naming Boeing as the aircraft originator, the Army cited the Pelican as an emerging technology to improve strategic responsiveness in its 2002 Transformation Roadmap. In July, a U.S. Transportation Command team lead at Scott Air Force Base mentioned the Pelican as a practical solution for moving troops and equipment over long distances. Meanwhile, the designers evaluated three different aircraft sizes with mean takeoff weights of and wingspans of , respectively.\n\nThe Pelican was formally introduced to the public at the 2002 Farnborough International Airshow in July, but with few specifics. As described in its physical form, the aircraft mostly resembled future versions of the Pelican, except that the winglets were reverted to upward-pointing to maximize lift. Boeing announced that the Pelican could fly up to in altitude and that the wingspan was limited by a so that it could be used on existing runways and taxiways. Both parameters were drastically smaller than the Pelican's eventual final specifications, however, and although Boeing's original patent called for a folding wing, news reports did not mention a folding mechanism, so it was unclear whether the stated wingspan represented an unfoldable, unfolded, or folded width. On the other hand, Boeing mentioned a theoretical Pelican payload of up to , which was much larger than the final specified maximum payload and was actually about equal to the final maximum takeoff weight. While Boeing said that the U.S. Army was evaluating the Pelican in war games as a solution to \"beat ships across the ocean,\" and that the company was jointly studying the aircraft with the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), it noted that full concept studies would not begin for another 5–8 years, and the aircraft would have to wait for at least 20 years before entering service.\n\nIn the September 2002 edition of its company news magazine, Boeing published an article highlighting the Pelican and revealing more of its final specifications, including a , a wing area of over , a payload of of cargo, an increased flight service ceiling of or more in altitude, and a range for a smaller payload of , depending on the flight mode. In addition, it stated that the Pelican could move 17 M-1 Abrams tanks, and that the aircraft would be offered along with the C-17 Globemaster III transport, the CH-47 Chinook helicopter, and the Advanced Theater Transport as part of the company's mobility solution for the U.S. armed forces. This article attracted international media coverage, and as Boeing Phantom Works continued to mature the design (including selection of the mid-size vehicle option), additional details about the aircraft began to appear over the next year in newspaper, general science magazine, and aviation industry print publications and research conferences. In November 2002, Boeing also applied for a patent on an automated system for controlling large, multiple-wheel steering aircraft (such as the Pelican) during ground maneuvers, crosswind landings, and crosswind takeoffs.\n\nAccording to Boeing, the Pelican aircraft technology was starting to gain followers among the decision makers evaluating the mobility initiatives within the Army and the Air Force, and the Navy also showed interest though it was directing its attention more toward hybrid ultra-large airships (HULAs). The market could support over 1,000 of this type of aircraft by 2020, Boeing asserted, if the military used this aircraft and if air transport's share of the transoceanic cargo shipping market increased to two percent from one percent (versus the current 99 percent for ocean shipping transport). Taking some market share from ocean shipping could occur, contended Boeing, because in comparison with traditional air cargo transports, the Pelican is less expensive and offers much more payload volume and weight. Boeing stated that the Pelican's continued development could depend on a positive result in the U.S. Army's Advanced Mobility Concepts Study (AMCS), which would describe the future mobility concepts and capabilities needed by the armed forces in years 2015 to 2020.\n\nBy the latter half of 2003, Boeing Phantom Works was showcasing the Pelican on its web site and in technology expositions. The U.S. Army published the AMCS report in December 2003, but the Pelican was not among the list of the eight most promising future mobility platforms for evaluation. Despite this setback, Boeing in 2004 continued low-key educational and evangelical promotion of the aircraft. At the 2004 Farnborough Air Show, Boeing announced that the Pelican had entered wind tunnel testing and that the aircraft's service ceiling was increased to .\n\nIn a 2005 United States congressional report evaluating 11 proposed airlift and sealift platforms for military mobility, the Boeing Pelican was assessed as marginally feasible to enter service in 2016, ranking behind six platforms that were deemed feasible. The lower grade was due to the tremendous investment required to develop an operational product because of the scale of the aircraft and the use of high-risk technologies, which might prevent the aircraft from achieving technology readiness level (TRL) 5. With this assessment, the report essentially reaffirmed Boeing's previous concerns about its ability to produce the aircraft for service by a 2015 timeframe.\n\nThough Boeing filed a couple of patent applications in mid-2005 relating to cargo container handling and automatic altitude measurement, no other public announcements appear to have been made about the aircraft after the report was issued. By April 2006, a report on Boeing internal documents showed that its long-term aircraft focus was primarily about low-cost and environmentally efficient passenger planes of conventional size, and there was no mention of the Boeing Pelican. Facing diminished odds of a large order from the U.S. armed forces, which collectively represented the aircraft's sole indispensable launch customer, Boeing quietly discontinued further development of the Pelican program.\n\nLike the pelican water bird for which it is named, the concept aircraft can both skim over water and soar to heights above mountain peaks. However, the Pelican is not designed for contact with bodies of water, so although the aircraft cannot take off or land at sea, it can be designed to be lighter and more aerodynamic. The aircraft is a land-based ground effect vehicle that operates from conventional runways despite having an enormous maximum takeoff weight (MTOW) of . During flight, the Pelican exits ground effect to climb a few thousand feet while the surface below the aircraft changes from ocean to solid ground, then enters descent to arrive at an airport like other airplanes. This capability differentiates the aircraft from some previously built ground effect vehicles such as the Caspian Sea Monster, whose relatively narrow could not produce enough lift to fly the large vehicle out of ground effect.\n\nIn its most efficient flight mode, the Pelican flies in ground effect at above the water, measured from the fixed structure (the underside of the fuselage), though the aircraft distance can be reduced to depending on its wingtip positioning. It has a cruise speed of , which lets it skim above 90 percent of the ocean about 90 percent of the time before high waves force it to fly out of ground effect. Boeing's ocean wave studies during 2000 revealed that north–south aircraft routes and many east–west routes worked very well in ground effect, with flights at latitude between 30 degrees north and 30 degrees south being very efficient, while polar routes were more challenging. The aircraft can also cruise over land at with an altitude of . At higher flight levels, the aircraft can attain nearly jet-like speeds in thinner air but consumes fuel faster than in ground effect mode, though the aircraft still performs at a fuel efficiency similar to a Boeing 747-400F aircraft freighter. The Pelican can fly to a height of , so it can clear all of the world's highest mountain ranges except for the Himalayas.\n\nThe aircraft takes off and lands at airfields differently from conventional airliners because of the Pelican's unusual landing gear configuration. A typical aircraft pitches its nose up right before final liftoff or touchdown, but the Pelican appears to have little or no rotation. Like the Boeing B-52 Stratofortress strategic bomber, the Pelican seems to levitate on or off the ground.\n\nA double-deck structure with a rectangular cross-section, the fuselage is long and is unpressurized except within the cockpit. It is capped in front by a large swing-nose door, which allows for loading and unloading cargo through both decks, and in back by conventional tailfin and tailplane stabilizers attached directly to the fuselage, instead of the heavier T-tail empennage that is typically used by other ground effect planes. The main deck has a cabin area that is wide and long. For military purposes, the upper deck is designed to carry troops or cargo containers, while the main deck has a height of so that it can hold oversized vehicles such as tanks or helicopters.\n\nThe aircraft's wings are mounted to the fuselage in a high wing configuration, and they are unswept and mostly parallel to the ground in their inner sections. The wings droop downward in their outer sections to enhance ground effect, also having a slight backward sweep in the leading edge and forward sweep in the trailing edge. To let the aircraft change shape for different types of operations, the wings are hinged within the drooping sections, and the axis of rotation is parallel to the fuselage. The wings fold slightly for takeoffs and landings, and they fold about 90 degrees to reduce clearance amounts during taxiing and ground operations. At the ends of the folding wing sections, wingtips droop below the rest of the aircraft by up to when the larger folding wing and the wingtip are in their normal positions. To avoid ground or water contact, the wingtips are hinged for active rotation, as the rotational axis is perpendicular to the direction of flight but not necessarily parallel to the ground. If a wingtip accidentally touches the ground or water, it minimizes the contact by passively swiveling upward and backward, with the clock position moving from six o'clock to three o'clock or nine o'clock, depending on which side of the wing is viewed.\n\nThe wings have an area of more than and a mean aerodynamic chord of . The wingspan is , although the wingspan can be reduced to as small as when the wing is folded. There are no leading edge devices or anti-icing systems, but the trailing edge has flaps that span the entire wing. The wings are designed with a large thickness-to-chord ratio to reduce aircraft weight and to hold part of the overall payload, a feature that is unique in modern aircraft and only rarely had been implemented in previous-era aircraft, such as in the Junkers G.38.\n\nThe Pelican is powered by eight turboprop engines, which produce an output of each. The engines are about five times more powerful than the engines on turboprop or propfan-powered military transport aircraft such as the Airbus A400M (using Europrop TP400 engines) and the Antonov An-22 (Kuznetsov NK-12MA) and An-70 (Progress D-27). The new engines would probably be a hybrid derived from two General Electric (GE) engines: the LM6000 marine engine, an aeroderivative gas turbine based on the CF6-80C2 turbofan (used on the Boeing 767 and other widebody aircraft) that powers fast ferries, cargo ships, and stationary electrical generation plants, combined with a core based on the GE90 turbofan, which powers the Boeing 777 twin-engine widebody aircraft. The Pelican's many engines mitigate a single-engine loss scenario, so just as the Boeing 777-300ER can lift its maximum takeoff weight with just one of its two engines working, seven operational engines out of the eight total can provide enough power for the 7.7-times greater MTOW of the Pelican. The power plant converts about 38 percent of the fuel's energy into thrust, a comparable engine efficiency to those in modern widebody aircraft.\n\nThe engines are paired behind four sets of coaxial contra-rotating propellers that are positioned at the leading edge of the inner sections of the wings. A set of contra-rotating propellers has eight blades (four blades on the front propeller and four blades on the back propeller) that are in diameter, which dwarfs the GE90 turbofan, is at least about two and a half times the size of the propellers on the aforementioned turboprop and propfan engines, and is noticeably bigger than the largest marine ship propellers, although it is less than half as wide as the main rotors on the largest helicopters. While a single engine drives each set of contra-rotating propellers on some common propfan aircraft such as the An-22 and the Tupolev Tu-95 (respectively the heaviest and fastest turboprop-powered aircraft in the world), the Pelican requires the two propellers within a contra-rotating propeller set to be matched with twin engines. This arrangement is due to the amount of power needed to lift the large aircraft off the ground and to ascend to and cruise at high altitude, but one of the engines in each engine pairing can be turned off while cruising in ground effect, as the paired engines are connected by a geared combiner gearbox so that one or both of the engines can turn the propellers.\n\nThe Pelican has a maximum payload weight of , which allows an army to transport 70 heavy expanded mobility tactical trucks (HEMTTs) or 52 M270 multiple launch rocket systems (MLRSs). It can carry 17 M-1 Abrams tanks in five rows of three abreast and one row of two abreast. The Pelican can also move ten CH-47D Chinook helicopters, which only use about ten percent of the payload weight capacity and are confined to the main deck due to their vehicle size. While human transportation would typically be in the form of military troops, the aircraft can be used to transport 3,000 passengers as a commercial airliner, though the aircraft is able to ferry the equivalent of 8,000 passengers (including carry-on items, luggage, seats, stowage bins, and other cabin furnishings) if factors other than payload weight are ignored (such as cabin area).\nAs a cargo freighter, the Pelican is designed to handle the standard intermodal shipping containers used in shipping, rail, and trucking instead of the smaller unit load devices (containers and pallets) that dominate the air cargo industry. The aircraft is designed to handle two layers of containers on its main deck. The containers are arranged longitudinally within the fuselage in eight rows of five containers, followed by two rows of three containers, for a total of 46 containers in a layer. The upper deck only holds one container layer, but it allows access to the cargo area of the wings, each of which can hold 20 containers aligned parallel to the fuselage in two rows of ten abreast. Within a cumulative cargo area of , the entire aircraft can transport 178 containers, or the equivalent of a single-stacked, containerized freight train stretching over long. At the maximum payload weight, a Pelican aircraft holding the maximum number of containers will have an average gross weight of per container.\n\nAt the maximum payload, the aircraft can travel in ground effect, which is about the distance between New York City and London. Carrying a smaller payload of , or slightly over half of the maximum payload, it can travel in ground effect, roughly the distance between Hong Kong and Buenos Aires, taking about in travel time. This distance is greater than the world's longest airline flights, and it is just short of the between two antipodes, which theoretically represents nonstop range to anywhere on earth (ignoring geopolitical barriers, headwinds, and other factors). The aircraft can alternatively carry that payload at high altitude with a decreased range of about , or approximately the distance between New York City and Shanghai.\n\nUnlike the typical tricycle undercarriage of most airliners, the undercarriage arrangement for the Pelican distributes the aircraft's weight on ground over two rows of 19 inline landing gears, which are mounted on each side directly under the length of the fuselage. Each landing gear row contains dual-wheel retractable landing gears distributed over about in length, with an average center-to-center distance of between each inline landing gear. As the landing gear rows are spaced about apart from each other, the Pelican's wheel span may meet the code letter F standard of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Aerodrome Reference Code, which is used for airport planning purposes. While only the nose landing gear can be steered on most airliners, each landing gear on the Pelican is steerable, so the aircraft can more easily perform crosswind landings and complete turns at a smaller radius when it is on the ground.\n\nThe combined 76 aircraft tires on the Pelican far exceeds the 32 wheels of the current largest cargo aircraft, the Antonov An-225. The average load per wheel is , or meaningfully larger than the typical maximum design load of for large, long-range aircraft. Pavement loading from the Pelican may be comparatively low, though. Boeing claims that the aircraft's ground flotation characteristic, a measure tied to the ground's ability to keep a vehicle from sinking, at maximum takeoff weight is superior to that of the much-smaller McDonnell-Douglas DC-10, which imposes the most demanding flotation requirements among aircraft of its era. However, according to the designer of the Aerocon Dash 1.6 wingship (a larger, sea-based ground effect vehicle that was investigated by DARPA a few years before the Pelican was proposed), regular Pelican operation at airports with high water tables underground may result in a type of seismic wave that leads to cracks in airport terminal buildings and eventually causes greater damage within months.\nA conventional takeoff and landing (CTOL) aircraft, the Pelican requires a takeoff runway length of at MTOW, which is shorter than the listed distance required for the much-lighter Boeing 747-400F. For Pelican landings, a satisfactory airfield meets the desired runway length and width of , respectively, and has a load classification number (LCN) of at least 30 if paved or 23 if unpaved. The aircraft may also be able to use a marginal airfield, which has a minimum runway length of , width of , and an LCN (if known) of 30 paved or 23 unpaved. A runway with an LCN of 30 can thus withstand the Pelican at lower weights, but it should not host some versions of the Boeing 737 narrowbody aircraft (including the popular 737-800) nor most versions of the 777, regardless of whether the runway is long and wide enough to handle those other planes. Boeing maintains that many military airfields are able to host aircraft that have the Pelican's large wingspan, adding that in the conflict regions of Southwest Asia from the Fertile Crescent and the Arabian peninsula eastward to Pakistan, at least 323 airfields meet the satisfactory landing criteria, with additional airfields that can meet the marginal criteria or be restored to satisfactory or marginal. The aircraft's length and wingspan, however, make the Pelican too big for the \"80-meter box,\" the informal name of the maximum size specified in the ICAO Aerodrome Reference Code.\n\nThe Pelican requires at the least a ramp or elevator to load and unload cargo. A more ideal setup is to build dedicated ground infrastructure at airports for transloading, such as cranes, railcars, and apron jacks, which approaches the sophistication of container terminal facilities used at the docks of major marine ports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879210", "title": "Say Hello to Sunshine", "text": "Say Hello to Sunshine\n\nSay Hello to Sunshine is the second studio album by American post-hardcore band Finch. Following the release of their debut album \"What It Is to Burn\" (2002), the group signed to MCA Records, which soon afterwards was absorbed into Geffen Records. Drummer Alex Pappas left the band in early 2004 and was replaced by Marc Allen. Sessions for the next album took place at a variety of studios with Jason Cupp, Ben Moore and the band producing the proceedings. Prior to the album's release, the band went on tour in the US and Europe, and \"Bitemarks and Bloodstains\" was released as a single in May 2005. \"Say Hello to Sunshine\" was released in June; further tours of the US, the UK and Japan followed soon after.\n\n\"Say Hello to Sunshine\" saw the band expanding their post-hardcore sound with different time signatures, heavier guitar riffs and breakdowns. Critical reaction to the album was mixed. Some were disappointed, having expected a similar sound to their previous material, whereas others embraced the change in direction. It sold 38,000 copies in its first week, charting at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" 200 in the process. It also charted in the UK, reaching number 48. The group celebrated the album's 10th anniversary by performing it in its entirety for one show in 2015.\n\nThe group's debut album \"What It Is to Burn\" was released in March 2002 as a joint release between major label MCA and independent label Drive-Thru Records. Around this time, the group signed to MCA Records. MCA had a distribution deal which allowed them to acquire Drive-Thru Records' bands over a period of time. Guitarist Randy Strohmeyer said that being on an independent label worked as a more co-operative arrangement: \"You work together to push the album and you wanna scratch each other's back. When you go to a major, it's a corporation that's all it is. They don't really care about the music and they don't really care about you.\" By February 2003, the group were writing material for their next album. Bassist Derek Doherty said it would be as \"diverse as the last record, but more mature.\"\n\nIn June, \"Melodic\" reported that the group would begin recording their second album in August with producer Mark Trombino, aiming for a release in early 2004. Pre-production began in June and continued into July. The group was initially scheduled to appear on the Warped Tour, but withdrew preferring to work on new material. Around this time, MCA Records was absorbed by Universal Music Group subsidiary Geffen Records, which resulted in its staff and roster being moved to Geffen. Guitarist Alex Linares said they had \"no choice\" in being moved to Geffen; however, they were \"still working with the same people ... [s]o nothing really changed for us.\"\n\nIn July, MTV reported that the band would record in October, opting to spend the rest of the summer writing. In August and September, the group took a break from writing to play a handful of shows. On January 10, 2004, drummer Alex Pappas left the group and was temporarily replaced by Marc Allen of Counterfit. \"Melodic\" reported in March 2004 that the group would start recording with Trombino in mid-April. The band then began recording with Jason Cupp and Ben Moore. Sessions took place at Music Friends Studios, Big Fish Studios, Jordan's old house, Signature Sound Studios and Ocean Studios with Cupp engineering all of the sessions.\n\nCupp, Moore and the band produced almost all of the songs except for \"A Piece of Mind\", \"Ravenous\" and \"The Casket of Roderick Usher\", which were produced by Cupp and the band. In between recording, the group went on tour in August and September with Recover and Counterfit, and performed at the Strhessfest and Holiday Havoc festivals. Sessions concluded in December. Cupp mixed the majority of the songs, except for \"Ink\", \"Miro\" and \"Bitemarks and Bloodstains\", with the assistance of Alan Mason at Chalice Studios. Rich Costey mixed the three remaining tracks with the assistance of Claudius Mittendorpher at Avatar Studios. Eddie Schreyer then mastered the recordings at Oasis Mastering. Collectively, the band had recorded 15–20 songs over the course of a year.\n\n\"Say Hello to Sunshine\" introduced odd time signatures, nu metal guitar riffs and breakdowns into the group's post-hardcore sound, creating a heavier sound than \"What It Is to Burn\". Frontman Nate Barcalow said influences from Faith No More, Alice in Chains, Stone Temple Pilots and Nirvana had filtered into the release unintentionally; his vocals have been compared to Mike Patton of Faith No More. Linares said the record was \"a little more aggressive and a little more \"raaah\"\" when compared to their past material. Discussing the album's title, Barcalow explained it was satire, before adding that they \"hope this record is going to rip your face off.\" Strohmeyer said the album had an apocalyptic theme, going on to say that it was \"very dark. It's kind of like, this is the last song you'll ever hear before the world blows up.\" The lyrics often feature references to blood, flesh, fire, death and various body parts. Cupp contributed shaker, tambourine and various percussion instruments to the songs.\n\nMetal riffs feature frequently during the verse sections of \"Insomniatic Meat\"; Barcalow showcases his refined vocal ability in both the singing and screaming, with the latter developing from guttural growling to high-pitched wailing. A quiet interlude section follows, before it ends with gentle vocal harmonies alongside screaming. \"Revelation Song\" contains several tempo and time signature changes and is darker than their past material. Barcalow displays a new vocal style on the song, which was compared to Static-X and Powerman 5000. \"Brother Bleed Brother\" is a vocal-driven track, prominently displaying the band's musical evolution. The math rock breakdown incorporates portions of a later track on the album, \"Ink\". \"Ink\" is a through-and-through math rock song, with the intro being compared to Gatsbys American Dream.\n\n\"Hopeless Host\" is about Barcalow's body \"not being a very good host for health.\" The punk rock track \"A Man Alone\" features off-beats in the verse sections. Nick Buchmiller played a Rhodes piano on both this track and the following track, \"Miro\". The verses of the latter recalled 311 with its laidback guitar riff over a groove. Moore played piano on \"Bitemarks and Bloodstains\", which was the first track written for the record, bridging the group's sound between \"What It Is to Burn\" and \"Say Hello to Sunshine\". \"The Casket of Roderick Usher\" was reminiscent of \"Project Mayhem\" from \"What It Is to Burn\" with its frantic energy, touching on grindcore, and drawing comparison to the Dillinger Escape Plan. The closing track \"Dreams of Psilocybin\" starts with loud noises and screaming sounds before the song kicks in.\n\nOn February 2, 2005, Allen was made an official member of the band. On February 16, it was revealed that the album would be titled \"Say Hello to Sunshine\". On March 26, the band posted \"Brother Bleed Brother\" on their website. It was subsequently made available for download on April 14. On the same day, the album's track listing was revealed, followed by the album's artwork on April 18. For the remainder of April, the group went on tour with Vendetta Red and the Nurses, concluding with a performance at The Bamboozle festival. On April 29, \"Ink\" was posted online. In early May, the group appeared at Give it a Name festival and performed a few European shows with Motion City Soundtrack. From mid-May to early June, the group went on a headlining US tour with support from Vendetta Red, Walking Concert and Reeve Oliver. \"Say Hello to Sunshine\" was made available for streaming on May 6.\n\nOn May 17, \"Bitemarks and Bloodstains\" was released as a single. Two days later, a music video was released for the track, directed by Michael Palmieri. The concept for the video came from Allen. Linares said the video was about \"the whole experience of the mass media and how they get these gullible people to live in fear.\" \"Say Hello to Sunshine\" was released on June 7 through Drive-Thru and Geffen Records. In late June and early July, the group went on a UK tour, supported by Million Dead. In late July and early August, the group went on a US tour with Head Automatica, Rx Bandits and Buck 65. Following this, the group appeared at the Summer Sonic Festival in Japan, before performing in the US with Rx Bandits and A Static Lullaby until early September. In October and November, the group supported HIM on their headlining US tour. On February 19, 2006, Finch announced an indefinite hiatus, explaining that their \"priorities just lie in different places.\" They played the album in its entirety for its 10th anniversary for one show in 2015.\n\n\"Say Hello to Sunshine\" charted at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" 200 after selling 38,000 copies in its first week. In the UK, the album reached number 48, while \"Bitemarks and Bloodstains\" reached number 82 in the singles chart. Spencer Charnas of Ice Nine Kills included the record on a list of albums that changed his life.\n\n\"Say Hello to Sunshine\" received mixed reactions from music critics. AllMusic was appreciative that the band's \"aggressive tendencies\" remain at the forefront of the group's sound. They mentioned that with \"such intriguing stylistic shifts permeating it\", the release is \"an outing whose rewards come via repeated listening.\" \"Chart Attack\" reviewer Shezhaad Jiwani said that instead of re-treading old ground, the band made a \"bold step forward\" with the release, without \"sacrificing their signature intensity.\" He complimented Barcalow's \"twice as strong\" vocal performance, especially as he got \"rid of that grating whine and replacing it with more versatile vocals.\" Sputnikmusic staff member Ryan Flatley found the record a \"tumultuous journey filled with twists and turns for some, while [to] others it was an embrace on what they gave to our ears as listeners.\"\n\nRaziq Rauf of \"Drowned in Sound\" said that while Barcalow's interest in \"unsavoury\" topics \"tend[ed] to grate\", he enjoyed the \"new, more cultured approach to the execution\" of Barcalow's lyricism. He described the album as a \"superb and well-rounded effort\" from a group that was attempting \"to push its own boundaries, if nobody else's.\" \"Melodic\" reviewer Kaj Roth felt that the release was not as good as the band's first, \"but then again it's not a disappointment either.\" He added that the tracks were up-tempo enough to \"re-charge alkaline batteries for life, however the debut is a little better.\"\n\n\"AbsolutePunk\" staff member Scott Weber expected to the album, but said that he was \"flat out wrong\" and found it a \"very solid, creative record that will silence a lot of critics, but also turn away some old fans.\" While noting that it was more \"technical and innovative\" than their past material, he felt that the album had \"a bad tendency to fall into old habits at times. Finch ... got in the way of themselves.\" \"Ox-Fanzine\" reviewer Christian Meiners said that the release lacked \"stadium rock character\" in its alternative feel, and stated that he was \"frightened by the extent of my dislike\" for the album. JR of IGN bluntly referred to it as \"one of the most criminally inaccessible albums in recent memory.\" As a Finch fan, he felt \"alienated and hoodwinked\" by this \"poorly-constructed, terribly-written record.\" \"Chicago Tribune\" Blair R. Fischer heavily criticised the album, saying that it \"sounds like Finch just got its mitts on a bunch of Incubus B-sides and decided to ruin every one.\"\n\nAll songs written by Finch.\n\nPersonnel per booklet:\nFinch\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "1879211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879211", "title": "Mary (crater)", "text": "Mary (crater)\n\nMary is a tiny lunar impact crater in the southeastern part of the Mare Serenitatis. It is located to the northeast of the small crater Dawes, and to the west of the Montes Taurus range. To the east-northeast of this position is the landing site of the Apollo 17 mission, in the Taurus–Littrow valley.\n\nThe name of the crater was approved by the IAU in 1976, along with the nearby craters Isis, Robert, Osiris, and Jerik.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879219", "title": "Martinkertváros", "text": "Martinkertváros\n\nMartintelep or Martin-Kertváros (in Slovak: \"Martinská osada or Martinská Predmestie)\" is a residential area of the city of Miskolc, Hungary. Unlike many other districts that are on the outskirts on the city, Martintelep has never been an independent town.\n\nThe area was first mentioned in 1908 as the estate of Károly Martin near the classification yard. Károly Martin was the founder and first commander of the fire brigade in Miskolc; today not only the garden town, but also a street bears his name.\n\nOn June 2, 1944 the US Airforce bombed the railway station and classification yard of Miskolc. Because of its proximity to the bombed areas Martintelep suffered some damages. The attack claimed 206 lives in the city and 420 people were wounded.\n\nThe residents of the area disliked the name \"Martintelep\" (mostly because the \"-telep\" part, meaning \"settlement\" is often part of the name of Gypsy settlements.) The district was officially renamed to Martin-Kertváros (\"kertváros\" means \"garden town\") on September 5, 2002, however, in colloquial speech it is still called Martintelep by everyone but its residents.\n\nMartintelep is one of the quietest and most peaceful areas of the city. It can be reached by buses 3, 3A from the city itself.\n"}
{"id": "1879223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879223", "title": "Tanba, Hyōgo", "text": "Tanba, Hyōgo\n\nThe modern city of Tamba was established on November 1, 2004, from the merger of all six towns of the former Hikami District: Aogaki, Ichijima, Kaibara, Kasuga, Sannan, and Hikami.\n\nAs of April 30, 2017, the city has an estimated population of 65,753 and a population density of 130 persons per km. The total area is 493.21 km².\n\nTanba is a very small city. Hikami is the biggest of the six towns which formed Tanba. Kuroi Castle is located in Kasuga. Tanba has many shrines, with the oldest being Hachiman shrine.\n\n\nTakijirō Ōnishi, World War II IJN admiral, \"the father of the kamikaze\", was born in what is now Tanba.\n"}
{"id": "1879224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879224", "title": "Ken Yeang", "text": "Ken Yeang\n\nKen Yeang (6 October 1948) is an architect, ecologist, planner and author from Malaysia, best known for his ecological architecture and ecomasterplans that have a distinctive green aesthetic. He pioneered an ecology-based architecture (since 1971), working on the theory and practice of sustainable design. The Guardian newspaper (2008) named him \"one of the 50 people who could save the planet\". Yeang's headquarters is in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) as Hamzah & Yeang, with offices in London (UK) as Llewelyn Davies Ken Yeang Ltd. and Beijing (China) as North Hamzah Yeang Architectural and Engineering Company.\n\nBorn in Penang, Malaysia, he attended Penang Free School (1961-1962) and entered Cheltenham College (Gloucestershire,1962-1967).\n\nHe qualified in architecture from the AA (Architectural Association) School of Architecture (London) where he did freelance illustrations and graphic work for the AD, AAQ magazines and for the AA. His dissertation at Cambridge University, \"A Theoretical Framework for Incorporating Ecological Considerations in the Design and Planning of the Built Environment\" earned him a PhD, published as ‘Designing With Nature’ (McGraw-Hill, 1995) and as 'Proyectar Con La Naturaleza’ (Gustavo Gili, SA, 1999). Academically, he holds the Distinguished Plym Professor chair (University of Illinois, USA, 2005). His honorary degrees include D.Litt.(Hon.) (Sheffield University, UK 2004), PhD (Hon.) (University of Malaya, 2013), D. Arch (Hon.) (Universidad Ricardo Palma, Peru 2016), D.Sc (Hon.) (Taylors University, Malaysia 2017).\n\nYeang attended courses on ecology (Department of Environmental Biology at Cambridge University), partial attendance in ecological landuse planning (Department of Landscape Architecture, University Pennsylvania, under Ian McHarg). These provided the ecological basis for Yeang’s work and work on his biodiversity and ecomimcry approach to ecological architecture and masterplanning, joining the British Ecological Society in 1975. Other courses attended includes business management at the Malaysian Institute of Management, the Singapore Institute of Management and a short course at Harvard Business School.\n\nHe is registered as an architect with ARB (Architects Registration Board) (UK, 1972), RIBA (Royal Institute of Architects) (UK), PAM (Pertubuhan Arkitek Malaysia), and Singapore Institute of Architects (SIA). He is a Fellow of the SIA, Fellow (Hon.) of the AIA (American institute of Architects), Fellow (Hon.) of the Royal Incorporation of Architects in Scotland, and Fellow (Hon.) Wolfson College, Cambridge University.\n\nYeang interned at S.T.S. Leong (Singapore, 1969–70), worked at Louis de Soisson Partnership (1969), Akitek Bersekutu (Kuala Lumpur,1974) and joined fellow AA alumni, Tengku Datuk Robert Hamzah as T. R. Hamzah & Rakan-Rakan) (1975) which became T. R . Hamzah & Yeang Sdn. Bhd. (1976). Yeang also served as Design Director and Chairman for Llewelyn Davies Ken Yeang (UK, 2005) until it was dissolved in 2012 .\n\nYeang has completed over 12 bioclimatic eco high-rise buildings, several thousand dwellings (terraced houses), over two million sq. ft. interior design space, numerous eco-masterplans and eco-city designs.\n\nYeang lectures extensively at conferences and schools of architecture (over 30 countries worldwide). He currently holds the Distinguished Plym Professorship chair (University of Illinois). He has been Professor of Practice (Texas A & M University0, Graham Willis Professor (University of Sheffield), Provost’s Distinguished Visiting Scholar (University of Southern California), Visiting Eminent Scholar (Florida Atlantic University), Advisory Professor (Tongji University, Shanghai), Honorary Professor (University of Hong Kong), misc. Adjunct Professorships (Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, University of Hawaii, University of New South Wales, Curtin University, University of Malaya, Deakin University),\n\nYeang served as Board Member of public listed MBf Property Unit Trust, the Malaysian Institute of Architects Education Fund, Advisory Board of the Government of Malaysia’s Genovasi (2013), President of the Malaysian Institute of Architects, Chairman ARCASIA (Asian Council of Architects), Vice-President Commonwealth Association of Architects and Council Member RIBA (Royal Institute of British Architects).\n\nHis key built work include the Roof-Roof House (Malaysia), Menara Mesiniaga (IBM franchise) (Malaysia), National Library Singapore (Singapore), Solaris (with CPG Consult, Singapore), Spire Edge Tower (with Abraxas Architects, India), DiGi Data Centre (Malaysia), Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital Extension (under Llewelyn Davies Yeang, UK), the Genome Research Building (Hong Kong with ALKF & Associates), Suasana Putrajaya (Putrajaya, 2017).\n\nYeang's research and technical work is in ecological architecture and masterplanning, establishing the formal basis for design, focussing on the biointegration of the human-made with nature, creating hybrid systems as ‘constructed ecosystems’. His work adopts bioclimatic design (climate-responsive passive low-energy) as a subset to ecological design, providing for him an underlying armature for ecological design. The approach also engenders critical regionalist features where climatic responses provide the links to its locality.\n\nA key project is Yeang’s own house, the 'Roof-Roof' House (1985) which is his early experimental bioclimatic built work. The dwelling has an identifiable curved louvred umbrella-like upper roof-structure that functions as a solar-filtering device and device that shades the building's lower roof terrace. Its side 'wind wing-walls' directs wind into the dining area. The swimming pool on the east functions as an evaporative-cooling device bring in the predominantly easterly breeze into the adjoining internal living spaces. The many features make the building an instructive reference prototype for his subsequent work on climate-responsive and ecological architecture. Influences can be further found in Yeang's later building and planning work. Yeang applied the bioclimatic passive-mode principles to the high-rise tower typology. Contending that the high-rise tower as an intensive built form will not go away overnight because of its existent economic basis arising from high urban land values and ability to accommodate rapid urban growth. He sought ecologically benign ways to make this built form green and humane to inhabit. Professor Udo Kulterman (Washington University) credits him as the inventor of the 'bioclimatic skyscraper',\nThe Mesiniaga Tower (an IBM Franchise, 1992) brought together earlier experimental bioclimatic ideas in a single built form, such as the placement of the elevator core as a solar buffers to the tower's hot sides, placement of toilets and stairwells with natural ventilation opportunities, adopting various solar-path shaped sun-shades, use of an evaporative-cooling pool at the uppermost level, the overhead louvred canopy as a framework for future PV cells, and the vegetated and stepped façade and recessed sky-terraces as interstitial semi-enclosed spaces for building's users. This building as a prototype received several awards including the Aga Khan Award for Architecture (1993), The Malaysian Institute of Architects Award, the Singapore Institute of Architects Award, The Royal Australian Institute of Architects Award and a citation from the American Institute of Architects (AIA).\n\nThe Solaris building (Singapore, 2008) brought together his ideas on ecological architecture with a continuous landscaped ramp and other experimental devices. His ideas for an urban park-in-the-sky in the high-rise building type is manifested as a 'vertical linear park' in his Solaris Building (2011) at 1-North Singapore that is a benchmark building in his green agenda for designing buildings asbiointgratin with nature. The building has an ecologically-linked vegetated pedestrian walkway ramp that is 1.3 km in length as a 'vertical linear park', punctuated by sky garden terraces located at each of the building's corners, further linked to a mid-level and to the uppermost-level roof gardens.\n\nHis work on biodiversity and systemic biointegrattion were implemented in the Suasana Putrajaya (Putrajaya, 2017) based on a 'biodiversity targets matrix' originally proposed for the GyeonGi Masterplan (Seoul, Korea).\n\nThe Solaris' vertical linear park device led to his concept of the continuous 'green eco-infrastructure', a device that enables a vital ecological nexus between the built form and its surrounding landscape, bioregion and its hinterland, that became habitats and a crucial biodiversity and wildlife corridor in all his subsequent masterplanning and eco-city design work (e.g. the SOMA Masterplan in Bangalore, India) and in his architecture (e.g. the Spire Edge Tower, in Gurgaon, India, completion c. 2015). This green eco-infrastructure concept led to his developing a unifying platform for eco-masterplanning as the weaving together of 'four sets of eco-infrastructures' into a unified system.\n\nYeang work on the high-rise typology as 'vertical green urbanism' (c.1990’s) sought to reinvent the skyscraper as 'vertical urban design'. His ideas invert the high-rise typology as a 'city-in-the-sky', first exemplified in the National Library Singapore (2005). The building features large 40m high 'public realms-in-the sky' as verdantly landscaped 'skycourt gardens', a ground plane as an 'open-to-the-sky' plaza for public festivals and culture-related activities. The thickened first floor slab over the plaza functions bioclimatically as an evaporative-cooling mass to the public realm below. Multiple upper-level sky-bridges link the building's two blocks (one containing the book collections and the other shaped block for programming activities. The naturally-ventilated atrium between the blocks has a ventilating louvred canopy that serves as its 'fifth facade'. There are two multi-volume reading rooms are located at either sides. At the uppermost roof is a promontory viewing pod. The building's built form has an organic geometry in his on-going explorations to derive an ecological aesthetic (see below). The building received Singapore’s BCA Green Mark Platinum rating.\n\nYeang worked on the Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital Extension (London, UK) (completed 2011) as a green healthcare facility in a temperate climate. The building has a mixed-mode flue-wall providing natural ventilation during the mid-seasons to the Walt Disney operated ground floor Café, a sedum-planted roof, with various low energy building systems (CHP, etc.), use of green materials, etc. The building is BREEAM rated 'excellent'.\n\nHis work on the development of a 'platform' for eco-masterplaning and designing eco-cities regards designing the built environment as 'a living system' that is both interactive and functional through the bio-integration of the 'four eco-infrastructural armatures' into an overall coherent system The approach provides an indeterminate framework enabling inclusivity of changing complex factors and technologies in a flexibility that allows for technological obsolescence while encouraging innovation.\n\nA theoretical rigorousness underpins his work. His earlier Cambridge doctoral dissertation (1975) presents a unifying comprehensive theoretical model for eco-design defining the prime factors in eco-design in four sets of interdependent 'environmental interactions', assembled in a mathematical 'partitioned-matrix'. This theoretical model continues to serve as the underlying guiding framework for his present eco-architecture and eco-masterplanning work.\n\nThe impact of Yeang's work on architecture is based on his patterns of biointegration of biotic constituents with the inorganic structure of the built environment. The approach involves creating viable habitats within the development and then matching these with selected native fauna species whether for feeding, breeding or refuge to enhance local biodiversity. These are matched with selected flora species in a composite 'biodiversity matrix '. This endeavour takes eco-design beyond accreditation systems, likely as the next stage in green design, redefining the relationship of the built systems with the ecology of the landscape, enabling a higher level of bio-integration.\n\nIn Yeang's oeuvre of design, built and theoretical work, his most important and instructive contribution is his advancing the macro ecology-based landuse planning approach of the landscape architect Ian McHarg and in extending and articulating this from its macro urban regional scale to the micro level of architectural design at the scale of the built form using his biointegation patterns. This was an endeavour that McHarg had sought to do but unable likely limited by being a landscape architect.\n\nHis recent work explores the concept of 'eco-mimicry' as designing the built environment as constructed ecosystems that emulates the processes, structure and attributes of ecosystems. ‘Eco-mimicry’ is a concept he first used in his papers on the use of biological analogies in design in Yeang, K.(1972), \"Bases for Ecosystem Design\", in Architectural Design, Architectural Press, London (1973)), and in Yeang, K. (1974), \"Bionics: The Use of Biological Analogies in Design\", in AAQ No.4 (Architectural Association Quarterly), London, UK, The ideas can also be found in, \"Learning From Nature: The Ecomimicry Project\" (Marchall, Alex, poster paper, Environmental Education conference, Western Australia (2006). The term 'eco-mimicry' is regarded by Yeang as an outgrowth from the ‘bio-mimicry’ and 'eco-mimetics'. Yeang's eco-mimicry refers to physical, structural and systemic mimicry of ecosystems, and not to be mistaken with a simplistic 'visual' mimicry which he regards as superficial.\n\nMany regard Yeang’s work as simply placing vegetation in his builtforms or as just creating an ecological nexus (continuous link) within his builtforms to enhance local biodiversity. Yeang’s work does much more than the addition of greenery and landscaping in his builtforms. The unique factor is involves the creation of new habitats within and around the development, matching of selected native species with these constructed habitats, setting their ‘biodiversity targets’ to achieve the expected level of biodiversity and providing physical conditions within these habitats to enable the selected species to survive over the seasons of the year. His built work become more than just ‘vertically-landscaped architecture’ but are in effect constructed ‘living systems’. This differentiates his work from others who imitate his work by just placement of planting within their builtforms.\n\nHamzah & Yeang's design and built work have been recognised by the over 70 awards received since 1989 that include the:\nHis personal awards include:\n\n• Liangsicheng Prize (2017), Architectural Society China\n\n• Greenseal Award (BCA, Singapore, 2016)\n• UIA Auguste Perret Award\n5. Ecological Aesthetic.\n\nYeang pursuit of eco-architecture and eco-masterplanning theories, concepts and ideas have been carried out in parallel with an exploration for an 'ecological aesthetic', in questioning \"...What a green building and masterplan should look like?\"\n\nYeang contends that an ecological architectural aesthetic should resemble a living system, looking natural, verdant and hirsute with nature and its processes visible in the bio-integration of the synthetic builtform's physical constituents (abiotic) with the native fauna, flora (the biotic constituents) and the environmental biological processes of the land. He contends that much of existent architecture and masterplans that lay claim by other elsewhere to be sustainable are simply commonly-styled or iconically-styled builtforms stuffed internally with eco-engineering gadgetry and with occasional vegetation in its upper open courts. Yeang contends that an eco-architecture and an eco-city should be 'alive' as a living system, analogous to a constructed ecosystem and not 'de-natured' nor look predominantly inorganic, artificial and synthetic. He adopts these assertions as the basis for his eco-architecture.\n\nYeang contends that eco-architecture and eco-masterplans demand their own identifiable 'style'. It is this distinctive green vegetated eco-aesthetic in Yeang's architecture and masterplans that brought international attention to his work. His eco-aesthetic does not have the shape or form that in any way resemble existent architectural styles. This aesthetic is an independent aesthetic that encompasses eco-design holistically and which comes from an interpretation, an understanding and the inclusion of ecological constituents and processes of its locality in its built form. This can be regarded as an emergent ecological aesthetic, where its shapes and forms have a nexus with adjoining ecosystems, which harmonise with the site's ecology, enhance local biodiversity, besides having other eco performance features such denying negative consequences, avert polluting emissions, be more energy and water efficient and carbon neutral than conventional buildings, and other eco-design attributes. He sees the eco-architecture as designed like a 'constructed living system'. Lord Norman Foster of Thames Bank refers to Yeang's eco-aesthetics, \"Ken Yeang has developed a distinctive architectural vocabulary that extends beyond questions of style to confront issues of sustainability and how we can build in harmony of the natural world.\" (2011).\nYeang's work in his relentless pursuit of an original bio-integrated 'ecological aesthetic' can be regarded as Yeang's other contribution to this field.\n\nYeang has completed over 200 built projects since 1975. His benchmark buildings, projects and their innovations include:\n\nThe project has been published in over 30 international publications for its hirsute extensively-vegetated ramp façade and aesthetic.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879233", "title": "Stilt house", "text": "Stilt house\n\nStilt houses are houses raised on stilts over the surface of the soil or a body of water. Stilt houses are built primarily as a protection against flooding; they also keep out vermin. The shady space under the house can be used for work or storage.\n\nIn the Neolithic and the Bronze Age, stilt-house settlements were common in the Alpine and Pianura Padana (Terramare) regions. Remains have been found at the Ljubljana Marshes in Slovenia and at the Mondsee and Attersee lakes in Upper Austria, for example. Early archaeologists like Ferdinand Keller thought they formed artificial islands, much like the Irish and Scottish Crannogs, but today it is clear that the majority of settlements were located on the shores of lakes and were only inundated later on. Reconstructed stilt houses are shown in open-air museums in Unteruhldingen and Zürich (Pfahlbauland). In June 2011, the prehistoric pile dwellings in six Alpine states were designated as UNESCO World Heritage Sites. A single Scandinavian pile dwelling, the Alvastra stilt houses, has been excavated in Sweden. Herodotus has described in his \"Histories\" the dwellings of the \"lake-dwellers\" in Paeonia and how those were constructed.\n\nHouses where permafrost is present, in the Arctic, are built on stilts to keep permafrost under them from melting. Permafrost can be up to 70% water. While frozen, it provides a stable foundation. However, if heat radiating from the bottom of a home melts the permafrost, the home goes out of level and starts sinking into the ground. Other means of keeping the permafrost from melting are available, but raising the home off the ground on stilts is one of the most effective ways.\n\nAccording to archeological evidence, stilt-house settlements were an architectural norm in the Caroline Islands and Micronesia, and these are still present in Oceania. Today, stilt houses are also still common in parts of the Mosquito Coast in northeastern Nicaragua, northern Brazil, South East Asia, Papua New Guinea, and West Africa. Stilted granaries are also a common feature in West Africa, e.g., in the Malinke language regions of Mali and Guinea.\n\nIn the Alps, similar buildings, known as raccards, are still in use as granaries. In England, granaries are placed on staddle stones, similar to stilts, to prevent mice and rats getting to the grain.\nStilt houses are also common in the western hemisphere, and are an example of multiple discovery. They were built by Amerindians in pre-Columbian times. \"Palafitos\" are especially widespread along the banks of the tropical river valleys of South America, notably the Amazon and Orinoco river systems. Stilt houses were such a prevalent feature along the shores of Lake Maracaibo that Amerigo Vespucci was inspired to name the region \"Venezuela\" (little Venice). As the costs of hurricane damage increase, more and more houses along the Gulf Coast are being built as or converted to stilt houses.\n\n\nStilt houses as water villas are common in the Maldives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879237", "title": "Dyanne Thorne", "text": "Dyanne Thorne\n\nDyanne Thorne (October 14, 1936 – January 28, 2020) was an American pornographic actress, stage performer and vocalist. She was known for her stage work in Las Vegas and as the lead actress in the \"Ilsa\" film franchise which began with \"Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS\" (1975).\n\nDyanne Thorne began her career in show business as a band vocalist and New York stage actress. She also worked as a comedic sketch artist/talking foil. Comedy albums, with Allen & Rossi, Vaughn Meader and Loman & Barkley, earned her appearances on many T.V. variety shows such as \"The Tonight Show\", \"Red Skelton\", \"Steve Allen\", \"Merv Griffin\", and with Tim Conway at Caesar's Palace Hotel in Las Vegas.\n\nFilmed in New York City, Thorne's first film role was in Norman Chaitin's short \"Encounter\" (1965), which was also an early screen credit for Robert De Niro. Moving to Hollywood to appear in \"\", and star as another villainess in Crown International's thriller \"Point of Terror\" (1971), led to further film roles.\n\nIn 1975, Thorne married composer, conductor, musician and actor Howard Maurer. The couple subsequently starred in five films together, co-produced and starred in several Las Vegas Strip showroom productions and their careers took them around the world.\n\nAs an actress, Thorne was known for her characterisation of the heinous international dominatrix and soldier of fortune \"Ilsa\". After her debut as Ilsa in \"Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS\" (1975), she reprised the role in the sequels \"Ilsa, Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks\" (1976), \"Ilsa, the Tigress of Siberia\" and an unofficial entry \"Greta, the Mad Butcher\" (both 1977), the last directed by Jess Franco.\n\nThorne started but did not complete studies for a degree in anthropology. She claimed to have earned a degree in comparative religion over the course of ten years of study.\n\nAs church ordained, non-denominational ministers, Thorne and Maurer created \"A Scenic Outdoor Wedding\" as an alternative to commercial chapel weddings. Couples worldwide travelled to Las Vegas to be married by \"Ilsa\".\n\nDyanne Thorne died in Las Vegas on January 28, 2020 from pancreatic cancer at the age of 83.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879238", "title": "Sulfur oxide", "text": "Sulfur oxide\n\nSulfur oxide refers to many types of sulfur and oxygen containing compounds such as SO, SO, SO, SO, SO, SO, etc.\n\nSulfur oxide (SO) refers to one or more of the following: \n\n"}
{"id": "1879246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879246", "title": "Yabu, Hyōgo", "text": "Yabu, Hyōgo\n\nAs of April 2017, the city has an estimate population of 24,489 people, with 9,572 households, and a population density of 58 persons per km². The total area is 422.70 km².\n\nThe modern city of Yabu was established on April 1, 2004, from the merger of the former town of Yabu, absorbing the towns of Oya, Sekinomiya and Yoka (all from Yabu District).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879247", "title": "Andreas Ignatius Schaepman", "text": "Andreas Ignatius Schaepman\n\nMgr. Andreas Ignatius Schaepman (4 September 1815, Zwolle19 September 1882, Utrecht) was Archbishop of Utrecht from 1868 to 1882 and President of the Great Seminary of Rijsenburg.\n\nHe did his primary studies at the gymnasium in Oldenzaal, completed his higher studies in the Seminary of 's-Heerenberg on 10 March 1838 and was ordained a priest at Oegstgeest. First employed as a chaplain in his hometown, he was appointed pastor of Ommerschans five years later. In 1846 moved to Assen, where he stayed eight years, and was then appointed pastor in Zwolle.\n\nSchaepman was in 1857 the first president of the seminary Rijsenburg in Driebergen. A year later he was also appointed vicar general and on 13 July 1860 to coadjutor and bishop of Hesebon Esbus in partibus. Schaepman was ordained titular bishop of Esbus and auxiliary of Utrecht on 26 August 1860 at Rijsenburg by Franciscus Jacobus van Vree, Bishop of Haarlem. After the resignation of Msgr. Johannes Zwijsen, in 1868, he was appointed to the metropolitan see, and so became the second Archbishop of Utrecht, after the restoration of the Roman Catholic hierarchy in the country.\n\nAfter the death of Archbishop Johannes Zwijsen, Schaepman campaigned for the emancipation of Catholicism in the Netherlands. He supported the establishment of Catholic schools and founded congregations such as the Brothers of Utrecht and the Sisters of St. Joseph who devoted themselves to Catholic education.\nSchaepman promoted religious art, music and history, that were never Zwijsen priorities. Even before his appointment as archbishop, he organized the restoration of St. Catherine Cathedral in Utrecht in neo-Gothic style, together with Gerard van Heukelum (1834-1910), founder of the St. Bernulphusgilde and chaplain of the cathedral). Schaepman and Van Heukelum were also at the basis of what is now the Museum Catharijneconvent in Utrecht.\n\nSchaepman had favored architect Wilhelm Victor Alfred Tepe, giving him a virtual monopoly on the building of new Catholic churches in the metropolitan territories of the Archdiocese of Utrecht. Only after the death of Archbishop Schaepman in 1882, was this monopoly slightly affected, and other architects had a chance of competing.\n\nSchaepman attended the First Vatican Council in part.\n\nHis portrait was lithographed by NJW de Roode an unknown artist.\n"}
{"id": "1879257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879257", "title": "Volcano Hazards Program", "text": "Volcano Hazards Program\n\nThe Volcano Hazards Program is a program directed by the USGS that monitors the activity of volcanoes and the public awareness of eruptions. Under the mandate of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Stafford Act), the Volcano Hazards Program monitors active and potentially active volcanoes, assesses their hazards, responds to volcanic crises, and conducts research on how volcanoes work. The Volcano Hazards Program supports the work of the Volcano Disaster Assistance Program through a mobile monitoring and response system.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879259", "title": "Organic Syntheses", "text": "Organic Syntheses\n\nOrganic Syntheses is a peer-reviewed scientific journal that was established in 1921. It publishes detailed and checked procedures for the synthesis of organic compounds. A unique feature of the review process is that all of the data and experiments reported in an article must be successfully repeated in the laboratory of a member of the editorial board as a check for reproducibility prior to publication. The journal is published by Organic Syntheses, Inc., a non-profit corporation. An annual print version is published by John Wiley & Sons on behalf of Organic Syntheses, Inc.\n\nPrior to World War I, work on synthetic organic chemistry in the United States had been quite limited, and most of the reagents used in laboratories had to be imported from Europe. When export stoppages and trade embargoes cut off this source, Clarence Derick, a professor of chemistry at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, began an effort to synthesize these needed chemicals in industrial quantities in a university laboratory with the help of a few graduate students. This work was performed during the summer break and came to be known as the \"summer prep\". Students who worked in the laboratory were paid and received credit.\n\nThe basic procedures were often obtained from textbooks, and the procedures were sketchy. Reproducibility was important in summer preps, so students were required to keep meticulous record books. The procedures were finally collected and published for the first time in a four-pamphlet set called \"Organic Chemical Reagents\", which quickly sold out. The publishers received submissions from other chemists, which spawned the idea for serial publication, and the first annual volume of \"Organic Syntheses\" was thus published in 1921. By then, chemists from other universities and industry were also contributing.\n\nOne example of much needed chemicals were dyes for sensitizing photographic film. Research efforts in this field led to the foundation of Eastman Kodak Organic Chemicals Division.\n\nThe summer preps contributed to the war effort in World War II but were discontinued in 1950 because by then an infrastructure of chemical companies with their own research had been established.\n\nUntil 1998, \"Organic Syntheses\" was published only as an annual printed volume. In that year, all past volumes were made available on an open access website and new articles are now published online as soon as they are accepted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879265", "title": "Lloyd Noble Center", "text": "Lloyd Noble Center\n\nThe Lloyd Noble Center is an 11,562-seat multi-purpose arena located in Norman, Oklahoma, some south of downtown Oklahoma City. It opened in 1975 and is home to the University of Oklahoma men's and women's basketball teams.\n\nBefore the construction of the facility, the teams played in the much smaller OU Field House, located on campus near Oklahoma Memorial Stadium. With the success of Sooner basketball in the 1970s and star forward Alvan Adams, demand became sufficient to upgrade to the modern and spacious Lloyd Noble Center, named after an alumnus and former member of the OU Board of Regents who gave OU's first ever $1 million gift to finance the center. The Sooners frequently sold out the arena during the Billy Tubbs era, with All-American forward Wayman Tisdale leading the high-scoring team to several Big Eight Conference titles and NCAA Tournament appearances. This led to the popular colloquialism around Norman that Lloyd Noble Center is \"the house that Alvan built and Wayman filled.\"\n\nIn January 2006, the NBA and the New Orleans Hornets decided to move two games from the Pete Maravich Assembly Center in Baton Rouge to Oklahoma City due to the devastation of Hurricane Katrina and the subsequent low attendance it caused. The Ford Center in Oklahoma City was unavailable for one of the games against the Sacramento Kings, so it was moved to the Lloyd Noble Center.\n\nThe center was named after Samuel Lloyd Noble (1896–1950), a Houston oilman and philanthropist, and founder of the Noble Corporation and the Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation.\n\nAs a concert venue, the Lloyd Noble Center can hold between 2,848 and 4,516 in a theater set-up, 6,165 for end-stage concerts, and 11,238 for center-stage concerts. The arena contains of arena floor space as well as of concourse space, allowing for trade shows to be held at the arena. The arena stands only tall since the majority of the structure is under ground (including the entire lower arena level), and contains a portable stage and a state-of-the-art scoreboard and video system. There are 12 concession stands at the concourse.\n\nAmy Grant recorded half of her live albums, \"In Concert\" and \"In Concert Volume Two\", here.\n\nElvis Presley performed two back-to-back concerts at the center on March 25 & 26 1977. He died 5 months after the concerts on August 16, 1977.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879267", "title": "Chlorine oxide", "text": "Chlorine oxide\n\nChlorine and oxygen can bond in many ways:\n\n\nSeveral ions are also chlorine oxides:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879271", "title": "Federico López", "text": "Federico López\n\nFederico López Camacho (March 26, 1962 – November 6, 2006), better known as Fico López, was a Puerto Rican professional basketball player. He was a member of the Mets de Guaynabo from 1981 to 1997.\n\nAlthough he was born in Mexico, López represented the Puerto Rican national team. Together with his brother-in-law, Mario Morales, López won various championships in the Puerto Rican league.\n\nLópez was born in Mexico City, Mexico, to Cuban parents. His father, Federico López Sr. was a star of Cuban basketball during the 1940s and 1950s. López was one of the star players of the national team of Puerto Rico. He was part of the first national Puerto Rican team to win a game against a national United States team (in Mexico). As a member of the Puerto Rican team he participated at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea.\n\nLópez died in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico, on November 6, 2006. from an apparent heart attack while playing volleyball with his friends in Caparra Country Club, the court that bears his name and where he grew up in sports since the age of 8. López was 44 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879284", "title": "National Geomagnetism Program", "text": "National Geomagnetism Program\n\nThe National Geomagnetism Program is a program directed by the USGS that monitors the Earth's magnetic field.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879286", "title": "William Barker (prospector)", "text": "William Barker (prospector)\n\nWilliam \"Billy\" Barker (1817–1894), was an English prospector who was famous for being one of the first to find a large amount of gold in the Cariboo of British Columbia. He also founded Barkerville which is preserved as a historic town.\n\nBarker was born in 1817 in March, Cambridgeshire, England and was baptised on 7 June 1817 in St Wendreda's Church, March. As a child he worked as a waterman on the waterways of England.\n\nHe married Jane Lavender in Earith, Cambridgeshire in 1839 and had one daughter named Emma Eliza. Lavender died in the workhouse in Doddington, Cambridgeshire, in 1850.\n\nBecause railways had begun to replace canal transport, Barker was unsure of what to do with his life. During the 1840s, he decided to go to California, where he would try his luck in the gold rush there. He left his wife and child in England in penury. He made little, but when the gold rush there ended, he moved up to British Columbia with many fellow miners as part of the British Columbia gold rushes. His party discovered gold in the Williams Creek area, and his fellow crew member \"Dutch Bill\" Wilhelm Dietz was the first to find a good amount of gold in the Creek Valley area.\n\nIn 1862, Barker decided to search for gold down river, close to Stout's Gulch. Many people said he was crazy for doing this, but, after a short period of time, they pulled out about of gold at about 52 feet below ground. Barker's claim turned out to be the richest in the area and the settlement of Barkerville was set up around his claim. He pulled out roughly 37,500 oz of gold in his life. It was said that Barker smoked as many as 30 cigarettes a day, finding it hard to deal with the stress of having that much gold, and the progressive symptoms of Parkinson's disease.\n\nIn 1863, Barker married the widow Elizabeth Collyer; she died on 21 May 1865 at the age of 38. The previous year Barker had sold his shares in the claim that had made him famous, since most of the \"lead\" gold had been cleared out. He may have thought he had made enough to live comfortably and still invest in further ventures, but his fortunes declined. His reputed generosity may also have contributed to his impoverishment.\n\nHe died penniless in a Victoria nursing home on 11 July 1894 with symptoms of Parkinson's disease and/or possible cancer in his jaw. He was buried in an unmarked grave in the Ross Bay Cemetery, though, there has been talk of moving his grave to Barkerville, the town that he founded, which is preserved as a historic town.\n\nCariboo Gold Rush\n\n"}
{"id": "1879287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879287", "title": "Alucard (Hellsing)", "text": "Alucard (Hellsing)\n\nAs revealed in volume 8 of the manga, he is Count Dracula (\"Alucard\" is \"Dracula\" spelled backwards). Soon after the events presented in Bram Stoker's original novel, Dracula was defeated by Abraham Van Helsing and became the family's loyal servant. Decades later, Abraham's descendant Arthur Hellsing gives the Count his current name: \"Alucard\". The manga is set over a hundred years later, where the Hellsing Organization is forced to fight the remnants of a Nazi battalion.\n\nHe typically dresses in a distinctive Victorian and western fashion, with a charcoal suit, leather riding boots, a red cravat, and a long red duster (resembling Van Helsing's duster). He also wears a red fedora with a wide, floppy brim which he uses to cover his long black shaggy hair, and a pair of circular, wire-framed sunglasses (which are similar in design to glacier sunglasses and old-fashioned Wilson welding glasses). However, this form seems to be a part of his being as he can change it at will.\n\nIn the anime (both the TV series and OVA) Alucard is voiced by Jouji Nakata.\n\nVolume 8 features flashbacks of Alucard's life as a human. Dracula starts his career by fighting the Ottomans, believing that God does not reward prayer, but instead wants mortals to show their faith visibly. However, when his army is defeated and he is about to be executed, Vlad, believing he has been abandoned by God, turns his back on the divine. It is not explicitly shown or stated how he became a vampire, but in one scene he drinks blood from the floor in front of an executioner.\n\nThe series mentions the events of Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\", but deviates at the point of Dracula's defeat. In \"Hellsing\", he was staked in the heart but not destroyed. It is unknown if he was forced into servitude or was willing, but he became a servant of the Van Helsing family, who not only augmented his formidable abilities, but also placed shackles on his power. He, along with a young Walter C. Dornez, were sent to Warsaw, Poland to stop Millennium's vampire production program. Integra's father eventually imprisoned Alucard in a dungeon in the Hellsing manor, as he believed the vampire was too powerful to be used frequently. After 20 years of imprisonment, Integra, marked for death by her traitorous uncle, opened Alucard's crypt as a final resort. Her blood awakened and resuscitated the ancient vampire, who then executed Integra's uncle and his followers, and willingly entered the service of Integra. While the TV series does not include the same scenes to explicitly state that Alucard is Dracula, the end of the anime series implied that he is Vlad the Impaler, one of the original inspirations for Dracula. In the OVA series, however, it is much more explicitly stated that he is Dracula. In episode 8 of the OVA, he is shown as his former self wearing medieval armor, a long black cape (blood red on the inside), long hair, a mustache, and a long sword.\n\nIn most depictions, Alucard is violent, sadistic, and masochistic. He often taunts and belittles his opponents, allowing them to inflict wounds before regenerating and retaliating, as shown in his first appearance in the manga. He longs for battle and has been shown to become angry when his opponents kill themselves. His thirst for battle is fueled by a desire to find an opponent powerful enough to end his eternal life, although he really wishes only to be slain by a human, for \"Only a human can destroy a monster. Only a human could dare hope to.\"\n\nHe expresses admiration for some humans, calling Integra's order to kill \"splendid\" and the determination of his rival, Alexander Anderson, to destroy him an example of the \"fantastic\" and \"magnificent\" qualities of humans. He recognizes Anderson as a parallel to himself, and pities him. He has great respect for these humans, going as far as to say he would have been proud if Anderson had killed him in his human form. As the manga continues, it becomes increasingly evident that Alucard is deeply depressed and is struggling with his nature as a vampire. It can be said that he considers vampirism a step down from humanity, and regrets the choice he made when becoming a vampire. Alucard occasionally expresses disgust with the vampires he hunts, notably when they kill without purpose. Commenting on the \"Bonnie and Clyde\" in the story, he mentions the two vampires' killing as unnecessary.\n\nAlucard is not immortal (he himself has said \"There is no such thing as immortals\") but he does not age. In reality, Alucard's lack of senescence comes from the number of humans whose blood he consumed over the ages, which is a number in the millions. As many come to realize, whenever he drinks his victim's blood, Alucard also sucks out the soul of that person to obtain their memories while converting the victim into an extension of himself referred to as a Familiar. When he retains all the claimed souls within his body, Alucard can easily regenerate from near fatal injuries in seconds. His regenerative abilities took even Anderson by surprise in their first encounter; Alucard was able to reconstitute himself within minutes of being decapitated and having his heart pierced, injuries that would kill an ordinary vampire.\n\nAlucard exhibits incredible accuracy when firing his twin large caliber handguns (his basic set being chambered in .454 Casull; a more powerful pair, codenamed 'Jackal' and armed with explosive rounds, was designed to fight regenerators like Father Anderson, Luke Valentine, and Incognito), and is capable of accurately shooting targets while looking the other way. He can tear humans apart with ease and move faster than the eye can see. He is seen passing through walls and moving up vertical surfaces. He shapeshifts into various forms, including bats, arthropods, demonic dogs, amorphous masses of darkness, and humanoid forms (among them being a young girl, a form he took while infiltrating the Nazi group Millennium during World War II). He communicates telepathically with Seras and can hypnotize other characters. He is also immune to the harmful effects of sunlight, though he avoids it due to it weakening his powers; he misses the sunlight. He sees the same sunrise each time he dies and, every time, remembers how beautiful it is.\n\nAlucard's power is restrained by a series of seals presumably made by Hellsing (known as the Control Ark Restriction System). Alucard can release the seals up to Level 1, where numerous eyeballs surround his body and can manifest a massive \"Hellhound\" named Baskerville. He also trades his traditional red fedora and duster for a black straight jacket with a large eyeball coming out of the center of his chest. When Integra Hellsing releases Level 0, the final seal, Alucard can assume the form he had in his previous life while manifesting all of his familiars into an undead army of over 3 million. Though this is his most powerful form, it also leaves Alucard vulnerable to attack, as the souls he consumed no longer reside in his body to give him regenerations; though he can draw familiars back into himself, any that are destroyed must be replaced through feeding.\n\nAnderson, augmented by the Nail of Helena, managed to critically injure Alucard during their final duel, which created a chain reaction that destroyed all Alucard's familiars except Luke Valentine and the Hellhound. Although Alucard recovered thanks to Seras' intervention and successfully defeated Anderson, he was then attacked by Walter, who had undergone vampirization by Millennium in order to kill Alucard when he was most vulnerable. However, Walter was tricked (via illusion) into killing Valentine instead; before he could get another chance to land a fatal blow, Alucard began absorbing the blood of the millions who died in the Battle of London, thus giving himself an indefinite number of regenerations and a new army of the dead. Unknown to Alucard, Schrödinger had killed himself and fallen into the river of blood on the Major's orders; mixed in with the millions of other souls Alucard had consumed, he was unable to recognize himself and therefore neither he nor Alucard was able to exist, causing Alucard to vanish.\n\nHowever, after Alucard destroyed every additional soul except Schrödinger's in his body, he gained the ability to exist \"everywhere and nowhere\".\n\nIn the Society for the Promotion of Japanese Animation Awards from 2008, Alucard was nominated as one of the best male characters. In an interview with Anime News Network, American voice actor Crispin Freeman stated that he enjoyed voicing Alucard, stating that he loved \"characters who are on the edge of madness for one reason or another\". Various merchandise based on Alucard's appearance has been created, including action figures, bust figures and key-chains.\n\nAnime News Network's Mike Crandol praised Alucard for being \"a refreshing change from the traditional, mopey, woe-is-me vampire anti-hero\", and called him \"quite the cool figure\". T.H.E.M Anime Reviews describes Alucard as \"anti-hero through and through, but you just can't help rooting for him even when it's obvious he's not really a good guy at all...\" Carl Kimlinger also from Anime News Network said \"Hellsing's greatest attribute, without doubt, is Alucard. He's one of the scariest, and most unspeakably cool, anti-heroes to ever slaughter his way through an anime.\" Jason Thompson commented that when the manga started \"Alucard looked too much like \"Master of Mosquiton\", or another badass manga character with John Lennon glasses\" and thought he seems like Vash the Stampede and his backstory is similar to Vlad the Impaler. IGN ranked him as the 21st greatest anime character of all time, saying that \"There have been many vampires in anime, but none have been as deliciously sadistic as Alucard.\"\n"}
{"id": "1879290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879290", "title": "Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum", "text": "Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum\n\nArizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum is a 14,870-seat multi-purpose indoor arena in Phoenix, Arizona, located at the Arizona State Fairgrounds. It hosted the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association from 1968 to 1992, as well as indoor soccer, roller derby and major and minor league ice hockey teams.\n\nNewspaper reports state that The Arizona State Fair Commission began planning for an \"Arizona State Fairgrounds Exposition Center\" as early as the fall of 1962. The Commission envisioned an indoor facility which could be used during the State Fair as well as year-round. In 1964, Phoenix architect Leslie Mahoney, of the Lescher and Mahoney firm (designers of the Orpheum Theatre in downtown Phoenix among others) presented the commission with the final plans, and construction began that summer . Tucson architect Lew Place (son of University of Arizona chief campus architect Roy Place, and who later took over his father's firm) was also involved in the design. The structural engineering firm was T. Y. Lin International.\n\nThe unique saddle-shaped, tension-cable roof, supporting over 1,000 precast concrete panels, was considered innovative architectural engineering at the time. It may have been at least partially influenced by the equally innovative Dorton Arena at the North Carolina State Fair in Raleigh, completed in 1952. Veterans Memorial Coliseum also contains a series of murals by Phoenix artist Paul Coze. The design influenced later arenas' architecture, including the now-defunct Capital Centre in Landover, Maryland, and the Scotiabank Saddledome in Calgary, Alberta.\nIn April 1965, the name was officially changed to honor Arizona's war veterans. There was an early controversy over whether alcohol would be served at the new facility, but legislation was signed in April 1965 by Governor Sam Goddard providing for limited liquor sales. The Coliseum opened November 3, 1965, with a production of Ice Follies. The final cost was estimated at $7 million, all privately funded.\n\nThe Coliseum suffers from a leaky roof dating back to at least its first anniversary, when management put a candle on the roof to celebrate the building's first birthday. The candle broke the roof's seal, which caused a number of leaks over the years.\n\nOn January 21, 1967, The Monkees performed their first ever live concert at the Coliseum, which was filmed and portions used in episode 4753 \"The Monkees on Tour\". The episode first aired on NBC, April 24, 1967. The episode also included some footage of the band's stay at Mountain Shadows Resort. On September 9, 1970, Elvis Presley kicked off his first tour after returning to live performing, here in front of a sell-out crowd of 13,000 as he did his first tour of 1973 on April 22 in front of 15,000. On October 18, 1993, Nirvana kicked off their In Utero world tour with a sold-out concert at the Coliseum.\n\nThe arena hosted the Phoenix Suns of the NBA from 1968 to 1992. During the Suns' tenure there, the Coliseum was affectionately referred to as \"The Mad House on McDowell\", named for McDowell Road, the street on which the arena is located) by both fans and the local media.\n\nA preseason game against the Portland Trail Blazers had to be canceled on October 6, 1974, after a leaky roof caused an unsuitable playing surface.\n\nThe Coliseum hosted the 1975 NBA All-Star Game, and the Boston Celtics won the NBA championship in the building in 1976.\n\nDue to renovations at the Talking Stick Resort Arena, the WNBA's Phoenix Mercury will play at the Coliseum for the 2020 season.\n\nSeating capacity for basketball went as followed:\nThis distinctive arena seats 13,730 for ice hockey and 14,870 for basketball. In addition to the Suns, the Coliseum hosted the Phoenix Roadrunners of the Western Hockey League from 1967 to 1974 and the WHA from 1974 to 1977 and of the now-defunct International Hockey League from 1989 to 1997, the Phoenix Racquets of World Team Tennis from 1975 to 1978, the Arizona Thunder of the World Indoor Soccer League from 1998 to 2000, and the Phoenix Mustangs of the now-defunct WCHL from 1997 to 2001. The Coliseum was again home to pro sports starting in 2006, when the IBL's Phoenix Flame played home games there until their move to Grand Canyon University.\n\nThe Coliseum hosted the Arizona Derby Dames banked track roller derby league from 2008-2015.\n\nThe arena hosted truck pulling sanctioned by USHRA in the late 1980s. It was frequently featured on USHRA's truck pulling series on ESPN.\n\nThe Coliseum also housed the Phoenix Inferno (also known as the Phoenix Pride) of the MISL from 1980 to 1984.\n\nThe Coliseum also hosted a Saturday Night's Main Event taping on Feb. 15, 1986 (shown on NBC on March 1, 1986), when King Kong Bundy attacked Hulk Hogan at the end of his title defense versus Magnificent Muraco. Hogan suffered (kayfabe) rib injuries, setting up their steel cage main event match at Wrestlemania 2.\n\nIt hosted the WCW WrestleWar 1991. The Coliseum was also host to the Phoenix Mustangs hockey team as part of the West Coast Hockey League and the Phoenix Eclipse ABA basketball team.\n\nThe arena remains open for some events, even though the Suns left in 1992 for the America West Arena (now Talking Stick Resort Arena). The Arizona State Fair schedules concerts, comedy shows and other events in the Coliseum during the Fair's annual season (which begins each October). For several years, it hosted portions of Arizona's high school basketball championships; those were moved to the newer Gila River Arena in 2005 and returned to the Coliseum for 2020.\n\nIn the fall of 2005, the Coliseum sheltered up to 2,500 evacuees from New Orleans in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. The evacuees were relocated to other housing in time for the opening of the Fair that October.\n\nThe Coliseum most recently hosted Sam Smith on his In The Lonely Hour Tour in the summer of 2015. The Phoenix Suns would also return to the Veterans Memorial Coliseum for a pre-season scrimmage on October 3, 2015, as a part of their \"We Are PHX\" movement, as well as unveiled signs commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Coliseum's existence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879292", "title": "Endesa Termic", "text": "Endesa Termic\n\nEndesa Termic is a chimney belonging to the thermal power station (i.e.:coal power plant) held by Spanish utility Endesa at As Pontes de García Rodríguez in the outskirts of Ferrol in the province of A Coruña, north-western Spain. Endesa Termic was built in 1974 and is the second tallest chimney in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879294", "title": "Pancho Barnes", "text": "Pancho Barnes\n\nFlorence Lowe \"Pancho\" Barnes (July 22, 1901 – March 30, 1975) was a pioneer aviator and a founder of the first movie stunt pilots' union. In 1930, she broke Amelia Earhart's air speed record. Barnes raced in the Women's Air Derby and was a member of the Ninety-Nines. In later years, she was known as the owner of the Happy Bottom Riding Club, a bar and restaurant in the Mojave Desert, Southern California, catering to the legendary test pilots and aviators who worked nearby.\n\nShe was born as Florence Leontine Lowe on July 22, 1901, to Thaddeus Lowe II (1870–1955) and his first wife, Florence May Dobbins, in Pasadena, California. She was born to a wealthy family, growing up in a huge mansion in San Marino, California. During her formative years, she attended the area's finest private schools. Her father, an avid sportsman, encouraged her to appreciate the great outdoors, and Florence became an accomplished equestrian. Her grandfather was Thaddeus S. C. Lowe, who had pioneered American aviation with the establishment of the nation's first military air unit, the Army of the Potomac's balloon corps during the American Civil War. He took his granddaughter to an air show when she was 10 years old.\n\nIn 1919, Florence married Reverend C. Rankin Barnes of South Pasadena, California, and they had a son, William E. Barnes. Her mother died in 1924.\nHaving spent four months abroad in Mexico, getting caught up with revolutionaries and escaping the attention of authorities, disguised as a man, she began to use the nickname \"Pancho\" around this time. Barnes returned to San Marino, California, with an inheritance bequeathed to her on her parents' death. In 1928, while driving her cousin Dean Banks to flying lessons, she decided to learn to fly, and convinced her cousin's flight instructor, Ben Caitlin, a World War I veteran, of her desire that same day. She soloed after six hours of formal instruction.\n\nBarnes ran an ad-hoc barnstorming show and competed in air races. Despite a crash in the 1929 Women's Air Derby, she returned in 1930 under the sponsorship of the Union Oil Company to win the race – and break Amelia Earhart's world women's speed record with a speed of . Barnes broke this record in a Travel Air Type R Mystery Ship.\nAfter her contract with Union Oil expired, Barnes moved to Hollywood to work as a stunt pilot for movies. In 1931, she started the Associated Motion Picture Pilots, a union of film industry stunt fliers which promoted flying safety and standardized pay for aerial stunt work. She flew in several air-adventure movies of the 1930s, including Howard Hughes' \"Hell's Angels\" (1930).\n\nBarnes had extensive connections in Hollywood. Her early close friend George Hurrell (1904–1992), then eking out a living as a painter and photographer in Laguna Beach, California, would later become the legendary head of the portrait department of MGM Studios. Barnes is credited with helping Hurrell start his career in Hollywood after he took the photo she was to use on her pilot's license, introducing him to her Hollywood friends. In a short period of time, Hurrell became the most in-demand photographer in Hollywood.\n\nBarnes lost most of her money in the Great Depression. By 1935, she had only her apartment in Hollywood left. She sold it, and in March 1935 bought of land in the Mojave Desert, near the Rogers dry lake bed and the nascent Muroc Field, then called March Field because it was an adjunct property of March Army Air Base at that time.\n\nOn her land, Pancho Barnes built the Happy Bottom Riding Club, also known as the Rancho Oro Verde Fly-Inn Dude Ranch, a dude ranch and restaurant which catered to airmen at the nearby airfield and her friends from Hollywood. Barnes became very close friends with many of the early test pilots, including Chuck Yeager, Robert Anderson \"Bob\" Hoover, Walt Williams, Jack Ridley, General Jimmy Doolittle, Buzz Aldrin, North American Aviation flight test mechanic Bob Cadick, and flight test supervisor Roy Ferren. Barnes' ranch became famous for the parties and high-flying lifestyle of all the guests.\n\nAfter successful flight trials, the Muroc and Edwards test pilots often enjoyed some good times at the Happy Bottom Riding Club. As proprietor, Barnes would offer them a customary free steak dinner for breaking the sound barrier.\n\nA change of command in 1952, however, contributed to Barnes getting into a conflict with the United States Air Force (USAF). The USAF was planning for the future of aviation, and decided it needed to build a new, super-long runway to accommodate new aircraft that were being planned to run on atomic power. That new runway would run directly across her ranch. The USAF originally offered her a price for her ranch, land, and facilities that was very close to the cost of undeveloped desert land. She requested a fair appraisal to better reflect the actual cost of replacement of her land and business, but in the midst of getting a re-appraisal, the base leadership accused her of running a house of ill-repute on her ranch. The effect of even the hint of impropriety resulted in her ranch and business being put off-limits to military personnel, and the value of her business plummeted.\n\nBarnes then filed a lawsuit against the USAF to, as she put it, \"Roust out the scoundrels in the government who would perpetrate such an injustice.\" She knew that if she filed a lawsuit, she would have the opportunity to depose under oath the various leaders and personnel on base, and the truth would come out and clear her name. During the height of the intense court battle, in 1953, her ranch burned in a fire of mysterious origin. After the fire, the value of her ranch and business further plummeted to a level more closely reflecting the original buy-out offer from the USAF. Nonetheless, the court battle continued. Barnes was determined to receive fair value for her land and business, and to clear her name. A main contention of her case was: \"My grandfather founded the United States Air Force.\" On that argument, the court found in her favor and she was awarded $375,000 remuneration for her property and business. Also, her name was cleared. As it turned out, the proposed runway was never built.\n\nAfter the government bought her out, she moved to Cantil, California, in hopes of restarting a similar dude ranch business there. It never happened. It was not until the late 1960s that Barnes once again became a commonplace figure at the base and began to be referred to as the \"Mother of Edwards AFB.\" The wounds began to heal as Barnes reconnected with many old-timers. The officer's mess at Edwards was renamed the Pancho Barnes Room.\n\nBarnes suffered from breast cancer, likely the ultimate cause of her death. She was scheduled to be the keynote speaker at the Antelope Valley Aero Museum's annual \"Barnstormers Reunion\" on April 5, 1975. However, when a friend called on March 30, 1975, she could not reach her. Her son Bill found her dead in her home, and the coroner determined that she had died nearly a week earlier. Bill obtained special permission, which was granted from the United States Air Force, to spread her ashes over the site of the Happy Bottom Riding Club. He then flew an aircraft over the site, but a crosswind came up, sweeping the ashes back into the small Cessna aircraft, to be carried aloft again. \"Even in death Barnes still loved a good joy ride.\"\n\nHer fourth husband, Eugene \"Mac\" McKendry, continued to live in Cantil and survived Barnes for many years.\n\nSon Bill Barnes died piloting a North American P-51 Mustang flying near Fox Field in Lancaster in October 1980. In 1940, she had founded Barnes Aviation of Lancaster, which Bill operated in his adult years. It remains in the general aviation business today.\n\nHer life and personality were portrayed in the 1983 epic film \"The Right Stuff\", adapted from Tom Wolfe's bestselling book of the same name. Kim Stanley played her. She was also the subject of a heavily fictionalized 1988 TV film, \"Pancho Barnes\", written by John Michael Hayes, directed by Richard Heffron, and starring Valerie Bertinelli. The first biography about Barnes was published in 1986, \"The Lady Who Tamed Pegasus: The Story of Pancho Barnes\", written by Grover Ted Tate, who relied heavily upon the copyrighted autobiographical materials of Pancho Barnes. In 1996, a second biography appeared, \"Pancho: The Biography of Florence Lowe Barnes\", written by Barbara Schultz. A third biography appeared in 2000, written by Lauren Kessler, \"The Happy Bottom Riding Club: The Life and Times of Pancho Barnes\".\n\nPBS sponsored a documentary film, \"The Legend of Pancho Barnes and the Happy Bottom Riding Club\", completed in 2009. In it, Kathy Bates provides the voice of Barnes. The documentary was made independently of the estate of Barnes. However, the estate gave the film makers full access to her personal papers and photographs as well as her copyrighted autobiography that are owned by the estate. The film, which chronicles Barnes' life story, was produced and written by Nick T. Spark and directed by Amanda Pope in affiliation with KOCE-TV, a PBS station in Orange County, California. The documentary won an Emmy for best arts and history documentary.\n\nBarnes' \"Mystery Ship\" #32 was for a long time located in a hangar at Mojave Airport. It was sold to a private collector a number of years ago, and is currently in the United Kingdom, where it has been restored.\n\nThe Happy Bottom Riding Club historical site is the location for the annual USAF Test Pilot School/Edwards Air Force Base Pancho Barnes Day celebration (established in 1980). A barbecue is held and drinks are served, along with dancing and live music in remembrance of this aviation pioneer and friend. Family hour extends until approximately 9 pm, after which it is an adults-only party, perhaps in remembrance of the raucous old days of Happy Bottom Riding Club.<ref name=\"Edwards.af.mil/news\"></ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "1879296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879296", "title": "Happy Bottom Riding Club", "text": "Happy Bottom Riding Club\n\nThe Happy Bottom Riding Club was a dude ranch, restaurant, and hotel operated by aviator Pancho Barnes near Edwards Air Force Base in the Antelope Valley of California's Mojave Desert. Barnes and the club were both featured in Tom Wolfe's 1979 book, \"The Right Stuff\", and the 1983 film adaptation.\n\nAlso known as the Rancho Oro Verde Fly-Inn Dude Ranch, the establishment was a favored hangout for both test pilots and the Hollywood elite during the 1940s, boasting over 9,000 members worldwide at the height of its popularity. When the United States Air Force intended to buy the club via eminent domain in order to extend their runways, a long and contentious series of lawsuits ensued. Barnes eventually won the lawsuits, but after the club was destroyed by fire in the 1950s, her plans to re-open in a nearby location never came to fruition.\n\nIn 1935, Barnes originally purchased the property where the club would later stand to grow alfalfa, raise pigs and cattle and start a dairy. As the nearby U.S. Army Air Corps base at Muroc Army Air Base expanded in the post World War II period, the ranch's other business as a restaurant, bar, and hotel quickly outgrew its humble beginnings. Eventually, the ranch also included a hospitality business with an all-female staff and it became a destination of choice for test pilot relaxation.\n\nAlong with a swimming pool and a rodeo stadium, Rancho Oro Verde had an airstrip that was the first amenity Barnes created in 1935 to stay in touch with her aviator-friendly social circle from south of the San Gabriel Mountains. Visiting civilians and military men alike flew into the strip to stay at the Rancho Oro Verde, with Barnes often holding events to entertain her guests that included barbecues and a treasure hunt for 200 silver dollars. The rodeo stadium held three-day weekend rodeos jointly sponsored by the local VFW post in Lancaster.\n\nThe original swimming pool was rectangular, and was one of the first built in the Antelope Valley, but was destroyed by the 1952 Kern County earthquake. The replacement pool was circular and had a circular ramp which reportedly allowed Barnes to ride her horse into the pool. This later pool was modeled after one Barnes had owned in the Pasadena area. The pool was lit at night — an aid to visual air navigation.\n\nAs depicted in the book and film \"The Right Stuff\", a tradition was started when Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier in the Bell X-1 and Barnes provided him with a free steak dinner. After that, pilots were given a free steak dinner when they personally broke the sound barrier for the first time. Following Yeager's achievement, the sound barrier was broken frequently from Edwards AFB in the late 1940s and early 1950s with Barnes giving free dinners multiple times during the course of a week.\nDespite a friendship between Barnes and the military, relations grew sour after a change of command in 1952, four years after Muroc Army Air Base became Edwards Air Force Base. One reason for friction between Barnes and the base commander was the increase in flights out of Edwards, along with an increase in flights at the club's landing strip. After he assumed command at the base, General Albert Boyd, an admirer and friend of Barnes, would berate her if her clientele came too close to military airspace and flight paths. Allegations surfaced that the club was a brothel, something Barnes believed was connected to her refusal to sell the ranch to the government for a runway expansion. The rules Barnes posted for hostesses were strict, and many seemed to discredit the allegations. Acting on the rumors, however, the Air Force prohibited servicemen from visiting the club, destroying the vast majority of her business. Since she and the government were in the middle of negotiations regarding establishing a fair price for her business and property, Barnes felt betrayed by the prohibition.\n\nWhen the government added a suit to appropriate the ranch, Barnes counter-sued for slander, harassment, unlawful acquisition of land, and conspiracy. The ranch was destroyed by fire on November 13, 1953, shortly before the lawsuit concluded. Barnes ended up resettling in nearby Cantil and the land was purchased by the Air Force via eminent domain. The proposed runway expansion was never implemented.\n\nBarnes' plans to reestablish the Happy Bottom Riding Club on her and her husband's land in Cantil never materialized.\n\nAlong with depictions in \"The Right Stuff\", the club was also immortalized in Lauren Kessler's biography of Barnes, \"The Happy Bottom Riding Club\". Barnes' life was chronicled in a 2009 documentary film for PBS station KOCE-TV, entitled \"The Legend of Pancho Barnes and the Happy Bottom Riding Club\".\n\nA made-for-TV movie aired on the CBS TV network, \"Pancho Barnes\" (1988), starring Valerie Bertinelli, featured a fictionalized version of Barnes' life and events relating to The Happy Bottom Riding Club.\n\nPancho's Happy Bottom Riding Club was listed on the Promenade directory as located in section 02-11 in the television series \"\".\n\nAir Force personnel from Edwards hold an annual barbecue on the site of the Happy Bottom Riding Club in remembrance of Barnes and the ranch. Visitors may still see the remains of the pool, the restaurant's foundation (including chimney), and the barn. From the air, an outline of the airstrip is visible.<ref name=\"Edwards.af.mil/news\"></ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "1879301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879301", "title": "David Albahari", "text": "David Albahari\n\nDavid Albahari (pronounced , , born on 15 March 1948) is a Serbian writer of Sephardic Jewish origin, residing in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Albahari writes mainly novels and short stories. He is also an established translator from English into Serbian. He is a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and a University of Belgrade graduate.\n\nBorn in Peć, SFR Yugoslavia, Albahari published the first collection of short stories \"Porodično vreme\" (Family Time) in 1973. He became better known to wider audience in 1982 with a volume \"Opis smrti\" (Description of Death) for which he got Ivo Andrić award. In 1991 he became the chair of the Federation of Jewish Communes of Yugoslavia, and worked on evacuation of the Jewish population from besieged Sarajevo. In 1994, he moved with his family to Calgary in the Canadian province of Alberta, where he still lives. He continues to write and publish in the Serbian language.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Albahari initiated the first formal petition to legalize marijuana in Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 2012 he was awarded the Vilenica Prize. He also received the following awards: Ivo Andrić Award (1982), Stanislav Vinaver Award (1993), NIN Prize (1996), National Library of Serbia Award for bestseller (1996), International Balkanika Award (1996), Bridge Berlin Award (1998), City of Belgrade Award (2005) and Isidora Sekulić Award (2014).\n\nOn 29 July 2016, Albahari won the first award at the \"Druga prikazna\" (\"Another Story\") literary festival in Skopje, Macedonia.\n\nAlbahari has been contributing to \"Geist\" magazine.\n\nHis books have been translated into several languages and eight of them are available in English:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879305", "title": "League of the Southwest", "text": "League of the Southwest\n\nThe League of the Southwest was a 1919 alliance formed among U.S. states in the basin of the Colorado River with the intention of promoting development, in particular irrigation of cropland for agriculture, along the river. In 1921, two years later, the United States Congress authorized the states to negotiate an agreement for allocation of the river water, leading to the 1922 Colorado River Compact.\n\nThe League of the Southwest, the brainchild of San Diego promoter Arnold Kruckman, launched its developmental program for the Southwestern states with a gala convention at the Hotel del Coronado in San Diego in November, 1917. The fourth meeting (Denver) of the League, now a single-issue organization dedicated to the development of the Colorado River, was the occasion for Colorado lawyer Delph Carpenter's proposal that the Colorado River states create a compact or interstate treaty under Article I Section 10 of the U.S. Constitution\n\n"}
{"id": "1879306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879306", "title": "Vita Cola", "text": "Vita Cola\n\nVita Cola is a cola beverage produced in Germany. Vita Cola's flavor is described as cola-like with a strong note of lemon and fruit flavoring. It is also noticeably less sweet than Afri-Cola, Coca-Cola or Pepsi, and has a slightly thicker consistency due to its use of citrus and other aromatic oils in the formula. Vitasoy (an unrelated company) also produces a cola beverage branded as Vita Cola.\n\nVita Cola started out in the German Democratic Republic. Introduced in 1957, it was advertised as \"Brauselimonade mit Frucht- und Kräutergeschmack\" (carbonated soft drink with fruit and herb flavoring), using a formula that is still kept secret (similar to Coca-Cola's \"Merchandise 7X\" formula). At its peak, Vita Cola was bottled in over 200 factories.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall and Iron Curtain in 1989, Vita Cola's business quickly collapsed as Western cola brands took its place. However, with the advent of Ostalgie (nostalgia among East Germans for the \"old days\"), many former GDR products were brought back, Vita Cola being one of the most popular.\n\nThe company \"Thüringer Waldquell\" from Schmalkalden, Thuringia, secured the rights to the name and formula and began producing Vita Cola in 1994. For some time, Vita Cola sponsored FC Hansa Rostock, a soccer club from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Vita Cola has since then surpassed Pepsi Cola and is still regaining market share in the former East Germany.\n\nIn Thuringia, Vita Cola has the biggest market share of colas, even above Coca-Cola. That means that Thuringia is one of the few regions in the world where a regional cola brand is the market leader.\n\nToday there is only one other former East German cola brand in production: Club Cola.\n\nNatural mineral water, Sugar, Carbonic acid, Acidulants (E270, citric acid, phosphate), Dye E150 d, Natural aroma, Vitamin C, Caffeine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879313", "title": "Battle of Gravelines (1558)", "text": "Battle of Gravelines (1558)\n\nThe Battle of Gravelines was fought on 13 July 1558 at Gravelines, near Calais, France. It occurred during the twelve-year war between France and Spain (1547–1559).\n\nThe battle resulted in a victory by the Spanish forces, led by Lamoral, Count of Egmont, over the French, led by Marshal Paul de Thermes. The Spanish were supported by the English Navy, who opened fire on the French as they reached the sand dunes at Gravelines.\n\nFollowing the dominance of the Spanish forces, led by Duke Emmanuel Philibert of Savoy, at the Battle of St. Quentin, Henry II of France prepared his revenge. He recruited a new army in Picardy, which he put in the hands of Louis Gonzaga, Duke of Nevers. He asked the Ottoman Sultan for naval support and encouraged the Scots to invade England from the north. Francis, Duke of Guise, seized the port of Calais from the English and moved to the city of Thionville (on the border between Flanders and France), a city that had been overtaken by the duke's army on 22 June 1558. Marshall de Thermes invaded with another army consisting of 12,000 infantry and 2,000 cavalry, armed with a considerable amount of artillery. After crossing the Aa River at its mouth, de Thermes commandeered his army to conquer both Dunkirk and Nieuwpoort, consequently threatening Brussels. It is reported that a Spanish army was to later intercept the duke's army at the Aa River.\n\nThe Duke of Savoy and Philip met an army of 15,000 infantry and 3,000 cavalry, giving the command to the Count of Egmont. Surprised by the speed of the Spanish maneuver, Thermes had to do battle because he had the river behind him, the sea on his left, and his right completely blocked by the baggage column of his own army. He deployed his army on the left bank of the river, creating a double line with the cavalry and artillery in one row and the infantry in a second row behind them.\n\nSighting the French positions, Egmont placed his troops in a crescent, with the light cavalry on the flanks and the Spanish troops, together with the German and Flemish units, in the center.\n\nThe French used their artillery, and a chaotic battle was fought between the cavalry of both sides. The Spanish arquebusiers, who were better armed and trained, peppered the French cavalry. They then shot at the infantry sheltered behind the baggage train, creating great confusion among the French ranks. Egmont, at the head of his horsemen, decided to attack the French center with his cavalry. Biscay and English ships bombarded the French rear, causing numerous casualties. The outcome of the battle could not have been worse for the French: only 1,500 men had managed to flee; the rest lay dead or were taken prisoner. The lord of Thermes was taken prisoner. The French were forced to retreat to the border.\n\nThis defeat, coupled with the loss at the Battle of St. Quentin (1557), forced Henry II of France to make peace with Philip II in the Peace of Cateau-Cambresis of 1559. It was because of this treaty that Philip II married Elisabeth of Valois, daughter of Henry, while Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy married Margaret of France, Duchess of Berry, sister of Henry and daughter of King Francis I of France.\n"}
{"id": "1879318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879318", "title": "Ron Kanter", "text": "Ron Kanter\n\nRonald M. Kanter (born February 25, 1948) is a former politician in Ontario, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal from 1987 to 1990.\n\nKanter was educated at Glendon College, York University, the University of Toronto Faculty of Law, and Osgoode Hall Law School. He was called to the Bar in 1976. In 1984, he was named a course director at the University of Toronto Faculty of Law. Kanter served as special assistant to Ontario Liberal Party leader Stuart Smith from 1976 to 1980.\n\nHe served as an alderman on the Toronto City Council from 1980 to 1987, and was also a member of the Metro Toronto council from 1985 to 1987.\n\nHe was elected to the Ontario legislature in the 1987 provincial election, upsetting Progressive Conservative leader and longtime MPP Larry Grossman by 3,676 votes in the constituency of St. Andrew—St. Patrick. Shortly after the election he was appointed as Parliamentary Assistant to Solicitor General Joan Smith in David Peterson's government.\n\nIn July 1989, Kanter was implicated in the Patti Starr affair. Starr, who was head of the National Council of Jewish Women, misused her position by having the organization make political contributions to the riding associations of prominent Liberal MPPs. Kanter's riding of St. Andrew-St. Patrick was among those who received these illegal contributions. In August, when Peterson shuffled his cabinet in the wake of the scandal, Kanter was not included.\n\nThe Liberals were defeated by the Ontario New Democratic Party in the 1990 provincial election. Kanter's connection to the tainted Starr scandal was mentioned as one of the reasons that he finished third in his bid for re-election, 1,383 votes behind winner Zanana Akande of the NDP.\n\nKanter now practises regulatory law with the firm of Macdonald Sager Manis LLP. He serves on the Toronto Board of Trade Task Force, and writes and speaks frequently on municipal government and planning issues.\n\nIn July 1990, he authored a publication entitled \"Space for all: options for a Greater Toronto Area greenlands strategy\". The report, commissioned by the provincial government recommended the establishment of a regional green lands system. Kanter said \"Not only should green lands be protected, but they should be linked wherever possible by trail systems, local parks, river valleys and other green corridors.\" The report placed special emphasis on the protection of the Oak Ridges Moraine.\n"}
{"id": "1879329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879329", "title": "Walter P. Chrysler Museum", "text": "Walter P. Chrysler Museum\n\nThe Walter P. Chrysler Museum was a car museum in Auburn Hills, Michigan, featuring historically significant vehicles designed and manufactured by Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth, Jeep, AMC, Nash, Hudson, and Rambler.\n\nIt was in operation from October 1999 through December 2012, with a brief re-opening in 2016 before closing permanently in December 2016. The museum was named after Walter P. Chrysler, the founder of Chrysler Corporation.\n\nDesigned by Giffels Associates and occupying 10 acres adjacent the southeast edge of Chrysler's North American headquarters in Auburn Hills, Michigan, the museum had three levels with about 55,000 square feet of exhibition space, its polished red granite and black glass exterior correlating to the nearby Chrysler Headquarters and Technology Center. Groundbreaking took place on November 19, 1996, and the museum opened on October 5, 1999.\n\nThe building featured 65 antique, custom and concept vehicles along with interactive displays and historical exhibits depicting Chrysler's design, technology and innovation, and the cultural impact of the automobile.\n\nA two-story atrium featured a prominent rotating tower, mounted with platforms suspending concept vehicles. The atrium gave access to two floors of exhibition galleries and a more straightforward lower level, which traced the first 50 years of the automotive industry, focusing on Walter P. Chrysler and his company. A number of rare vehicles from the early 1900s were featured. A timeline wall detailed the roles of individuals and legacy companies, including DeSoto, Hudson, Nash, Plymouth, Rambler and Willys-Overland.\n\nThe second floor featured the first Chrysler Hemi from 1951, as well as displays about vehicle styling, electronics, turbine technology, safety and fuel economy. The garage-like lower level held vehicles from the 1960s and 1970s, plus a series of Jeep® vehicles and trucks.\n\nThe museum received an average of 90,000 visitors annually and was profitable initially. However, the facility lost nearly $1.5 million from 2010 to 2011, and it closed to the public due to low attendance on December 31, 2012.\n\nIts assets were sold to the Chrysler Foundation, a charitable arm of Chrysler Group, LLC. In 2016, the museum briefly reopened with limited hours for event and meeting rentals, as well as Chrysler special events — before closing permanently on December 18, 2016.\n\nThe building was subsequently converted to office space, with the 65 cars of the collection to be displayed for special events at the Chrysler Technology Center and other FCA facilities. Maserati's U.S. headquarters was relocated from Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey to the former museum, and Alfa Romeo’s U.S. operation shares the space with Maserati.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879343", "title": "Dorchester Avenue (Boston)", "text": "Dorchester Avenue (Boston)\n\nDorchester Avenue (sometimes called Dot Ave) is a street in Boston, Massachusetts, running from downtown south via South Boston and Dorchester to the border with Milton, where it ends. Built as a turnpike, the Dorchester Turnpike, it is mostly straight.\n\nThe Boston South Bridge over Fort Point Channel, on the site of today's West Fourth Street Bridge, opened on October 1, 1805 as the first bridge connecting downtown to South Boston. Until it was sold to the city of Boston on April 19, 1832, it was a toll bridge.\n\nThe Dorchester Turnpike Corporation (sometimes called the South Boston Turnpike) was created by the state legislature on March 4, 1805, to build a turnpike from the east end of the Boston South Bridge (Nook Point) to Milton Bridge over the Neponset River, on the other side of which the Blue Hill Turnpike later continued.\n\nConstruction cost more than expected, and thus high tolls were charged, so many travelers took the old longer route through Roxbury. Despite that, the Dorchester Turnpike was one of the most profitable turnpikes, with earnings steadily climbing to a peak in 1838. When the parallel Old Colony Railroad opened in 1844, earnings quickly fell.\n\nThe North Free Bridge, on the site of today's Dorchester Avenue Bridge, opened in 1826, providing a more direct route form the north end of the turnpike to Dewey Square downtown.\n\nOn April 22, 1854, the turnpike became a free public road, named Dorchester Avenue. The name was changed to Federal Street in 1856, as it provided a continuation of that street from downtown Boston (via the North Free Bridge), but it became Dorchester Avenue again in 1870.\n\nAs part of the building of South Station (opened 1899), Federal Street was cut between the bridge and Dewey Square. Dorchester Avenue was extended north from the bridge around the east side of the new union station, along the shore of the Fort Point Channel, intersecting Mount Washington Avenue (which was also cut by the new station) and Summer Street and ending at Congress Street. Additionally, the Atlantic Avenue Viaduct was built as a second bridge just west of the Dorchester Avenue Bridge, connecting to Atlantic Avenue at Dewey Square.\n\nBy 1923 the viaduct was gone, but the extension of Dorchester Avenue remains to this day. In the 1990s it was closed to the public, including pedestrians and bicyclists, from the bridge to Summer Street, due to its proximity to Big Dig construction. It has remained closed due to security concerns, as it runs next to the South Postal Annex (a sorting facility of the United States Postal Service).\n\nThe Dorchester Avenue Railroad, one of the first street railways in Boston, started operations in 1857, eventually running over the full length (from downtown to the Neponset River). When the road was realigned around 1899, the tracks were moved, ending at a line along Summer Street.\n\nAs the Red Line opened in the 1910s and 1920s, parallel to Dorchester Avenue, most through passengers switched to that, and local routes were rerouted to feed into the new subway. Tracks were removed by the 1950s. Today the Red Line Ashmont Branch is sometimes referred to as the Dorchester Ave. Line.\n\nNowadays the only bus routes to use the road are local routes to subway stations:\n\nThe first numbered routes in New England were the New England Interstate Highways in 1922. NE 6 may have used Dorchester Avenue south of South Boston, but it is more likely that it turned northwest towards Morton Street just after crossing the Neponset River. In any case, by 1927, Route 3 (which had replaced NE 6) and Route 28 turned northwest in Milton, on a route that Route 28 still uses. (By 1928, Route 3 had been realigned to use the new Southern Artery, now Gallivan Boulevard.)\n\nBetween 1933 and 1935, the C (city) routes through downtown Boston began to be signed. Route C37, a continuation of Route 37, used MDC Parkways (now Morrissey Boulevard), merging with Dorchester Avenue at Old Colony Avenue. From there C37 took Dorchester Avenue to its north end, Congress Street, turning northwest there into downtown. A one-way pair existed from West Fourth Street to the Fort Point Channel, with southbound traffic using Foundry Street and West Fourth Street, but this was later removed, with Dorchester Avenue returning to full two-way operation.\n\nIn the 1970s, C37 (and the rest of the C routes) was decommissioned, leaving Dorchester Avenue with no numbered routes. Thus, over the years, the only route to use the road has probably been C37.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879351", "title": "X Font Server", "text": "X Font Server\n\nThe X font server (xfs) provides a standard mechanism for an X server to communicate with a font renderer, frequently one running on a remote machine. It usually runs on TCP port 7100.\n\nThe use of server-side fonts is currently considered deprecated in favour of client-side fonts. Such fonts are rendered by the client, not by the server, with the support of the Xft2 or Cairo libraries and the XRender extension.\n\nFor the few cases in which server-side fonts are still needed, the new servers have their own integrated font renderer, so that no external one is needed. Server-side fonts can now be configured in the X server configuration files. For example, will set the server-side fonts for Xorg.\n\nNo specification on client-side fonts is given in the core protocol.\n\nAs of October 2006, the manpage for xfs on Debian states that:\n\nSo the choice between local filesystem font access and xfs-based font access is purely a local deployment choice. It does not make much sense in a single computer scenario.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879354", "title": "Telluride (chemistry)", "text": "Telluride (chemistry)\n\nThe telluride ion is the anion Te and its derivatives. It is analogous to the other chalcogenide anions, the lighter O, S, and Se, and the heavier Po.\n\nIn principle, Te is formed by the two-e reduction of tellurium. The redox potential is −1.14 V.\nAlthough solutions of the telluride dianion have not been reported, soluble salts of bitelluride (TeH) are known.\n\n\"Tellurides\" also describe a class of organotellurium compounds formally derived from Te. An illustrative member is dimethyl telluride, which results from the methylation of telluride salts:\nDimethyl telluride is formed by the body when tellurium is ingested. Such compounds are often called telluroethers because they are structurally related to ethers with tellurium replacing oxygen, although the length of the C–Te bond is much longer than a C–O bond. C–Te–C angles tend to be closer to 90°.\n\nMany metal tellurides are known, including some telluride minerals. These include natural gold tellurides, like calaverite and krennerite (AuTe), and sylvanite (AgAuTe). They are minor ores of gold, although they comprise the major naturally occurring compounds of gold. (A few other natural compounds of gold, such as the bismuthide maldonite (AuBi) and antimonide aurostibite (AuSb), are known). Although the bonding in such materials is often fairly covalent, they are described casually as salts of Te. Using this approach, AgTe is derived from Ag and Te.\n\nTellurides have no large scale applications. Cadmium telluride has attractive photovoltaic properties. Both bismuth telluride and lead telluride are exceptional thermoelectric materials. Some of these thermolectric materials have been commercialized.\n"}
{"id": "1879362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879362", "title": "Carlos Drummond de Andrade Airport", "text": "Carlos Drummond de Andrade Airport\n\nBelo Horizonte/Pampulha–Carlos Drummond de Andrade Airport is an airport serving Belo Horizonte, Brazil, located in the neighborhood of Pampulha. Since December 16, 2004 the airport is also named after the Minas Gerais-born poet Carlos Drummond de Andrade (1902–1987).\n\nThe airport is operated by Infraero.\n\nPampulha Airport was opened in 1933 as a support facility for the passenger flights operated by the Brazilian Air Force between Rio de Janeiro and Fortaleza. The first commercial operation started in 1936, when Panair do Brasil was granted a concession to fly between Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte. \n\nIn 1943 the runway was extended to 1,500m x 45m, in 1953 to 1,700m, and finally in 1961 to 2,505m.\n\nSince 1973 the airport has been operated by Infraero. \n\nWith the great increase of traffic at Pampulha Airport, the facility became too small and unable to handle all operations. For this reason, the new Tancredo Neves International Airport was built in the adjoining municipality of Confins. The new facility was opened in 1984.\n\nHowever, due to the long distance between Belo Horizonte and Confins, Pampulha remained the airport of choice for most airlines, eventually becoming overcrowded, while Confins was under-used. In order to revert this scenario, in March 2005 the government of the state of Minas Gerais with the support of agencies of the Federal government decided to restrict Pampulha to operations of aircraft with capacity of up to 50 passengers. In the months thereafter, most operations were forced to move to Confins and Pampulha gained a new vocation as a hub for regional flights and general aviation.\n\nOn 31 August 2009, Infraero unveiled a BRL8.4 million (USD4.4 million; EUR3.1 million) investment plan to upgrade Pampulha Airport focusing on the preparations for the 2014 FIFA World Cup, which was held in Brazil, Belo Horizonte being one of the venue cities. The investment was distributed as follows:\n\nNo scheduled flights operate at this airport.\n\n\nThe airport is located from downtown Belo Horizonte.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879364", "title": "Veterans Memorial Stadium (Troy University)", "text": "Veterans Memorial Stadium (Troy University)\n\nVeterans Memorial Stadium at Larry Blakeney Field is a stadium in Troy, Alabama. It is primarily used for American football, and is the home field of the Troy University Trojans. The seating capacity is 30,402. The stadium was originally built in 1950, and has regularly been expanded, renovated and improved since then. The stadium was named in honor of the college students and local residents who gave their lives during World War II. The field received its name from retired head coach Larry Blakeney, the coach with the most wins in Troy history.\n\nVeterans Memorial Stadium was originally dedicated in 1950 to the Troy State Teachers College students and Pike County residents who had died in World War II. The stadium solely consisted of a small, 5,000-seat grandstand on the west side of the running track, and was built into the natural slope of the ground. It has been expanded or renovated several times over the past few decades.\n\nIn 1998, the stadium underwent a major renovation. A large upper deck was added on the west side of the stadium, increasing capacity from 12,000 seats to 17,500 seats. A new scoreboard with a small video board was also added.\n\nCosts for the 1998 expansion of the stadium were financed in part by a substantial donation from HealthSouth founder Richard M. Scrushy. The playing field (but not the stadium) was renamed for Scrushy, but this became a public relations problem for Troy University when Scrushy was forced out of his position due to alleged financial misdeeds at HealthSouth in 2003; he was later tried for these, but acquitted. (Scrushy was later convicted of other unrelated crimes, along with former Alabama governor Don Siegelman.)\n\nRenovations were again carried out in 2003, just two seasons after the Trojans make the move to Division I-A (FBS). The old press box area, which had cut into the 1998 upper deck, was filled in with chair-back seats. A much larger, 6-story press box/box tower was built behind the newly-completed upper deck. The track was removed and the field was lowered, and permanent seating was placed over the old berm area behind the south grandstand. The east grandstand seating was completely demolished and rebuilt, adding a new lower deck and upper deck. As a result of the seat additions and renovations, the stadium's seating capacity expanded to 30,000. The stadium was now a flattened \"U\" shape. A large-screen end zone replay board was installed in 2003 in the North end zone, along with a state-of-the-art Danley sound system.\n\nThe natural grass surface was also removed in 2003, being replaced with AstroPlay synthetic grass. Troy was one of the first schools to feature the synthetic grass on a football field. The AstroPlay surface was then replaced by the ProGrass synthetic turf system in 2012.\n\nConstruction costs for the 2003 renovation/expansion were financed in part by the sale of naming rights to the video rental chain Movie Gallery. Because of this, Scrushy's name is no longer on the field. Movie Gallery's name was removed after the company filed for bankruptcy and ceased operations in 2010, at which point the venue reverted to its original name.\n\nDuring this time, no major renovations were performed that would affect seating capacity. A few moderate renovations were performed, with the first being that the AstroPlay synthetic grass surface was replaced by the new ProGrass synthetic turf system in 2012.\n\nIn 2014, the next renovation was to add a Daktronics 15HD LED video board in the eastern corner of the south end zone above the lower stands. In addition to this, new long Daktronics Slim-LED video ribbon boards were installed front of the both the east and west upper decks. A new sound system was also installed.\n\nOn November 12, 2016 ground was broken on the $24-million North End zone Facility with a completion date for 2018. The facility will add 402 club-level seats and the plans call for a first-floor that houses a strength and conditioning area and nutrition station; a second-floor locker room, sports medicine facility, team lounge and \"cool-down\" plunge pool; and a third floor filled with coaches’ offices, meeting rooms, video services and a recruiting lounge. A Daktronics 15HD LED video board is also being installed on the top of the facility, which will be the largest video board in the Sun Belt Conference, as well as one of the largest video boards among Group of Five programs.\n\n\nThe largest crowd to see a Troy football game in Veterans Memorial Stadium was 29,612 on September 1, 2018, when the Trojans hosted Boise State. Troy lost by a final score of 59-20.\n\nBefore each Troy home football game, hundreds of Troy fans and students line University Avenue on campus to cheer on the team as they march with the Sound of the South band and cheerleaders from the Quad to Tailgate Terrace, surrounded by fans who pat them on the back and shake their hands as they walk toward Veterans Memorial Stadium.\n\nDuring the pre-game show at Veterans Memorial Stadium, the Sound of the South will perform what is known as the \"Trojan Fanfare.\" It is a favorite among most fans and energizes the fanbase leading up to kickoff.\n\nOne of the more popular traditions of gameday, during the pre-game show the band marches onto the field to prepare for the football team to run out of the gates. The band falls silent, and the announcer then recites the phrase from William Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\". Fans in the stadium will yell out \"Havoc!\" in unison along with the announcer before the last line of the phrase:\nBefore every game and after every touchdown, the Trojan Warrior or Trojan Princess would blaze down the football field on a horse named \"Big Red.\" This tradition is no longer used because the football field turf was changed from real grass to artificial grass.\n\nThe stadium hosted the last Blue–Gray Football Classic in 2003 after moving from Cramton Bowl in Montgomery, Alabama, where the game had been played for nearly 62 straight years. The annual college football all-star game was cancelled by the Lions Club of Montgomery, Alabama due to the lack of a title sponsor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879377", "title": "Embassy of Mongolia, Washington, D.C.", "text": "Embassy of Mongolia, Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Mongolian Embassy in Washington, D.C. is the diplomatic mission of Mongolia to the United States. It is located at 2833 M Street Northwest, Washington, D.C. in the Georgetown neighborhood.\n\nMongolia and the United States established diplomatic relations in 1987, and the embassy was opened in 1989.\n\nThe head of the Mongolian Embassy in Washington, D.C. is Ambassador Khasbazaryn Bekhbat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879381", "title": "Son of a gun", "text": "Son of a gun\n\nSon of a gun is an exclamation or a noun in American and British English. It can be used encouragingly or to compliment, as in \"You son of a gun, you did it!\"\n\nThe \"Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary\" and \"Webster's Dictionary\" both define \"son of a gun\" in American English as a euphemism for son of a bitch. \"Encarta Dictionary\" defines the term in a different way as someone \"affectionately or kindly regarded.\" The term can also be used as an interjection expressing surprise, mild annoyance or disappointment.\n\nThe phrase is found in a piece of comic verse from 1726: \nA 1787 correspondent to \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" suggested that the phrase originally meant \"a soldier's brat\".\nThe phrase potentially has its origin in a Royal Navy direction that pregnant women aboard smaller naval vessels give birth in the space between the broadside guns, in order to keep the gangways and crew decks clear. Admiral William Henry Smyth wrote in his 1867 book, \"The Sailor's Word-Book\": \"Son of a gun, an epithet conveying contempt in a slight degree, and originally applied to boys born afloat, when women were permitted to accompany their husbands to sea; one admiral declared he literally was thus cradled, under the breast of a gun-carriage.\"\n\nAlternatively, historian Brian Downing proposes that the phrase \"son of a gun\" originated from feudal knights' disdain for newly developed firearms and those who wielded them. An American urban myth also proposes that the saying originated in a story reported in the October 7, 1864 \"The American Medical Weekly\" about a woman impregnated by a bullet that went through a soldier's testicles and into her womb. The story about the woman was a joke written by Dr. Legrand G. Capers; some people who read the weekly failed to realize that the story was a joke and reported it as true. This myth was the subject of an episode of the television show \"MythBusters\", in which experiments showed the story implausible.\n"}
{"id": "1879384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879384", "title": "Stadion Letná", "text": "Stadion Letná\n\nThe Generali Česká pojišťovna Arena, previously, and still commonly known as Letná Stadium ( ), is a football stadium in Prague. It is the home venue of Sparta Prague and occasionally hosts the matches of the Czech Republic national football team. It has capacity for 19,416 people.\n\nThe first wooden stadium at its location opened in 1921, in 1930 it hosted the third Women's World Games. The stadium burned in 1934 and a new main reinforced concrete grandstand was built in 1937. In 1969 all the other grandstands were replaced by reinforced concrete ones and capacity was extended to 35,880 spectators. The 1994 reconstruction into its present form saw Letná closed for nine months, till the stadium met all international standards. The running track was removed and all spectator places were now seated.\n\nLetná has frequently hosted international matches, in October 1989 the venue saw a crowd of 34,000 watch home side Czechoslovakia defeat Switzerland in a qualifying match for the 1990 FIFA World Cup. After the dissolution of Czechoslovakia, Letná continued as an international stadium, hosting matches of the Czech Republic national football team from 1995, including qualification matches for UEFA Euro 1996, in which the Czechs defeated the Netherlands and Norway.\n\nThe playing surface was renovated in 2001, including the installation of a new under-soil heating and watering system and grass from Germany. This necessitated Sparta playing league matches at the end of the 2000–01 season at the nearby Stadion Evžena Rošického.\n\nSparta was hit by a 55,000 CHF fine from European football governing body UEFA in 2001 following racist slurs from the crowd targeted at black Brazilian Luis Robson in a UEFA Champions League match at Letná against Spartak Moscow. It was, at the time, the biggest fine ever handed out by UEFA to a club for racist chanting.\n\nSince 2002, the stadium have a heated turf. In 1994 the stadium was reopened after a complete modernization, all seats have since been seated and the stadium meets all required standards. In 2009, major changes took place at the stadium, barriers were removed, two video screens were installed and infrared radiators were installed to heat the \"opposite\" tribune.\n\n\nSince the beginning the stadium has been used as a speaking tribune for events that took place in front of it, in/around the Milada Horaková street and the large \"Letná Plain\". During the Velvet revolution in 1989, were at the plain assebled some 800,000 people for anti-government demonstrations. The speaking tribune was later removed.\n\nThe stadium is served by the tram stop \"Sparta\", called at by services 1, 2, 8, 12, 25 and 26. The nearest metro stations are Vltavská to the east and Hradčanská to the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879388", "title": "Kid Flash (Iris West)", "text": "Kid Flash (Iris West)\n\nKid Flash (Iris West II) is a fictional superheroine in the alternate future of \"Kingdom Come\" in the \"DC Comics\" universe. She first appeared in \"Kingdom Come\" #3 (July 1996).\n\nIris West II/Kid Flash appears in issues 3 and 4 of the 1996 \"Kingdom Come\" mini-series. She subsequently appears in the \"Kingdom Come\" sequel, \"The Kingdom\", starring in her own issue \"The Kingdom: Kid Flash\" (February 1999). Characters similar to this one appear in \"The Flash\" #143 (December 1998) and #146–149 (March–June 1999), as well as \"The Titans\" #23–25 (January–March 2001); however, it is not clear if they are the same character.\n\nIn the alternate future of the \"Kingdom Come\" series, Iris West II is the daughter of Wally West (the first Kid Flash, third Flash) and Linda Park, and the twin sister of Barry West. Both Iris and Barry inherited their father's superspeed abilities, but only Iris chose to use her powers for good, while Barry used his powers to become a slacker and has no interest in the \"family legacy\". Iris is constantly bitter that her father, who has almost completely given up his life to patrol Keystone City non-stop, never makes time for her but does make time for Barry, and considered him the potential successor to the Flash identity instead of Iris, despite her becoming Kid Flash. \n\nIn the sequel \"The Kingdom\", Iris is recruited by Rip Hunter (along with several other heroes of her generation - Ibn al Xu'ffasch, Batman's son; Nightstar, the daughter of Nightwing and Starfire; and Offspring, the son of Plastic Man) to try to stop a madman named Gog from altering the past, before discovering it to be unnecessary due to Hypertime. \n\nIn \"The Titans\" #23–25 she becomes a member of a group comprising the children of the original five Titans: herself; Nightwing and Starfire's daughter Nightstar; Donna Troy's son Darkstar; the Red Hood, Arsenal's daughter; and Tula, Tempest's daughter. They return to the present in various Hypertimelines to save the existence of Donna Troy.\n\nIn \"Flash\" #225 (October 2005), Wally West's wife Linda gave birth to a daughter named Iris. Initially, her only power is the ability to vibrate through objects. In \"Flash\" #240 (May 2008) Iris appears to grow into a teenager wearing a costume similar to her future counterpart. In issue 241, Iris now wearing a \"kid flash\"-like costume displays superspeed and states she may be faster than her father. However her joy is short-lived, as she ages into adulthood after defeating Gorilla Grodd. In \"Flash\" #243, Iris is returned to her original age, and her powers revert to molecular acceleration.\n\nMore than her twin brother Jai, Iris is a living conduit for the Speed Force, with absolute mastery over it almost rivaling the one briefly gained by her father during the \"Dark Flash Saga\". Mind-controlled by Queen Bee, she exhibited the power of forming \"cocoons\" of Speed Force, bubbles in which she could control speed and time, freezing her targets or hastening their metabolism to death. Moreover, she repaired the weakening connection to the Speed Force that was crippling her father. Badly traumatized by her ordeal, she refuses to give in to her powers again.\n\nHer resolution wanes with the return of the first Reverse-Flash, Professor Zoom, during event. Since Jai's and Iris' connection to the Speed Force is still precarious, the attempts of Zoom to disrupt it force both kids to endure a large amount of crippling pain, until Iris decides to take the bulk of the Speed Power connection, freeing Jai but taking the pain for herself. At the last moment Jesse Chambers, guided by the late Johnny Quick, uses the \"Speed Mantra\" to save Iris' life, once again restoring her full potential.\n\nIris embraces her new role with childlike glee, choosing to take up the mantle of Impulse, which Bart used before he joined the Teen Titans as Kid Flash.\n\nImpulse is later shown being recorded on Flyover, a social networking feature devised to help villains stalk and kill teen superheroes.\n\nIris and her brother Jai were absent from history due to the manipulations of Doctor Manhattan following Flashpoint. When Wally West returned in DC Rebirth #1 it was revealed that his wife, Linda Park, does not remember Wally, leaving the fate of Jai and Iris unknown at best. In Flash War #1 it was revealed by Hunter Zolomon to Wally that his forgotten children (and implied Bart Allen, Max Mercury, and Jesse Quick) not only existed in the altered timeline but are currently trapped in the speed force like he was. In the following issue Zoom urges a heartbroken Wally to break the speed force enough to save his family, leading to an altercation between Wally and Barry whether or not to rescue his children at risk of damaging the speed force and time once again. Unfortunately for Wally, Zoom lied. Rather than breaking the Speed Force, the attempt broke the \"Force Barrier\", which unlocked hidden other forces related to the Speed Force, called the Sage and Strength Forces. Taking the power of these new forces to defeat the Justice League and the Titans, Zoom then claims however that he does indeed know where the rest of the Flash family is. Unfortunately, Zoom withholds this information, and proceeds to claim the mantle of Flash before attacking Wally and Barry. \n\nIris and Jai next make brief appearances in flashbacks and simulations regarding Wally while he attempted to recover at Sanctuary during \"Heroes in Crisis.\"\n\nIris (in her Impulse costume) and Jai are finally revealed to exist in the \"DC Rebirth\" universe, stranded on the problematic undying planet in the ever encroaching Dark Multiverse that is seemingly connected to Wally and his actions in \"Heroes in Crisis\". She and Jai were emigrated to Earth 0 by Wally.\n\nIris West II has the same abilities as her father Wally West: superspeed, the ability to control and vibrate her molecules, and an aura that protects her from friction at high velocities. Iris is somewhat slower than her father because of her young age.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879389", "title": "Ray Hudson", "text": "Ray Hudson\n\nRaymond Wilfred Hudson (born 24 March 1955) is an English retired professional footballer and former manager who currently works as an English-language football commentator on beIN Sports and radio host for SiriusXM FC 157. He started playing professionally at 17, in 1973, with Newcastle United. Fans nicknamed him Rocky and he stayed with the Football League First Division side for four years before moving to the U.S. and playing with various teams for about 15 years.\n\nWhen he finished his playing career, he started coaching. He was named the head coach in the middle of the 2000 season of the Miami Fusion and was then hired by D.C. United on 8 January 2002 to be their head coach. He was replaced in 2004.\n\nHudson then began commentating for GolTV. In 2012, he joined Sirius XM Radio as the morning show host of \"The Football Show\" on SiriusXM FC 157, SiriusXM's all soccer channel.\n\nHudson signed with Newcastle United in 1973 at the age of 17, from local team Whickham Juniors. He made 25 appearances for Newcastle and fans there nicknamed him \"Rocky.\" After four years in the Football League First Division, Hudson moved to the United States, playing for the Fort Lauderdale Strikers of the North American Soccer League from 1977 to 1983. His former teammate at Newcastle, Paul Cannell, who like Hudson had struggled to get a first team place, in his book \"Fuckin' Hell It's Paul Cannell,\" claimed he was one of the people responsible for getting Hudson to play his football in America. Cannell had spell on loan at the Washington Diplomats in the 1970s. When Cannell came back to Newcastle, Hudson, was keen to know what life and playing football was like in the US. Cannell claimed he gave Hudson tales of sex, drugs, rock and roll and football and the rest is history... In the next season Cannell played against Fort Lauderdale Strikers, a team full of world class players, and he explained Hudson was by far the best player on the pitch... Hudson played the winter season of 1983–84 in Germany with Union Solingen, making 10 appearances without scoring. Hudson also played for the Strikers following their move to Minnesota in 1984, which proved to be the league's final year. Over the course of his eight years in NASL, Hudson scored 44 goals in 197 matches with 99 assists, and was named to five All-NASL squads, including once as a \"Best XI\" in 1984.\n\nHe followed this with a season playing for Edmonton Brickmen before joining the Fort Lauderdale Strikers of the American Soccer League. After a knee injury sidelined him, the Strikers released him. He spent one season (1990) playing for cross-state rivals Tampa Bay before returning to the Strikers in 1991. By this time the team was playing in the American Professional Soccer League. He was released by the Strikers when the club was mired in a four-match scoreless streak to begin the season. In 1992, he injured his other knee while playing in an NASL reunion match between NASL-era Strikers and Rowdies.\n\nAfter starting out as the Miami Fusion's community outreach director and TV commentator, Hudson was named its head coach in the middle of the 2000 season, finishing the season with an 11–1–12 record. He led the club to the best regular season record in Major League Soccer (the MLS Supporters' Shield) in 2001 with 16 wins, 5 draws, and 5 losses. However, the club was defeated by the San Jose Earthquakes in the semifinal round of the playoffs.\n\nHudson quickly became known for his fiery personality. One memorable incident occurred after a Miami home win against the Tampa Bay Mutiny. The Fusion scored five goals, usually considered an excellent performance, but Hudson was apparently unsatisfied. He stormed into the media tent and up to the podium. He said, \"I've got nothing to say. Any questions? ANY QUESTIONS? No? OK!\" and stormed right back out. Interviews with players after the game indicated that Hudson was angered by a perceived lack of effort, even with the Fusion's dominant win.\n\nFollowing MLS's contraction of the Fusion, Hudson was hired to replace Thomas Rongen as head coach of D.C. United on 8 January 2002. He continued to regale fans and journalists with his wit, stories, and quotes. He said, \"There's a lot of talent on this team, and I'm talking Anna Nicole Smith type of talent!\" upon taking control of the team in 2002. D.C. United finished at the bottom of the table in the East in 2002 with a record of 9–5–14, and were ousted in the first round by Chicago Fire by a 4–0 aggregate score in the two-game series in 2003. \"Someone get me a blindfold and a cigarette!\" he said during the post-game news conference. He was replaced by Piotr Nowak in 2004.\n\nHudson's cumulative record as an MLS head coach stands at 46–20–44.\n\nHe worked for ESPN's World Cup coverage in 2002, and came up with a memorable quote after the United States drew 1–1 with South Korea in group play. Expounding upon whether U.S. goalkeeper Brad Friedel should be thanking his defenders for their work, he said, \"I'll be kissing their bums in the showers.\"\n\nBeginning with the 2004–2005 season, Hudson began commentating for GolTV. He was a co-commentator for European league matches and a co-host of \"American Soccer\" until his final appearance on the show on 29 August 2007. During the 2006 World Cup, he was a co-host for the English-language segment of the nightly \"Gol TV En Alemania\" wrap-up show.\n\nIn 2012, Hudson joined Sirius XM Radio as lead commentator on SiriusXM FC 85, the service's soccer channel. Hudson hosts \"The Football Show\" with Charlie Stillitano, Neil Barnett, and Phil Schoen, which airs weekdays at 7am Eastern Time. His listeners refer to him as 'Rocky' which was his nickname back in his playing days. He is the centerpiece of \"Hudson's Howlers,\" a monthly feature highlighting his most outrageous comments.\n\nHudson's commentating style, which mimics fellow Geordie, famous darts commentator Sid Waddell, consists of metaphors and excited, romanticized descriptions (e.g., \"magisteeerial\") of players and goals, has earned him both praise and ridicule.\n\nIn March 2020, it was announced that Hudson will serve as play-by-play commentator for Inter Miami CF of Major League Soccer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879390", "title": "Section 24 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Section 24 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\n\nSection 24 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" provides for remedies available to those whose \"Charter\" rights are shown to be violated. Some scholars have argued that it was actually section 24 that ensured that the \"Charter\" would not have the primary flaw of the 1960 \"Canadian Bill of Rights\": Namely, Canadian judges would be reassured that they could indeed strike down statutes on the basis that they contradicted a bill of rights.\n\nUnder the heading \"Enforcement,\" the section states:\n\nSubsection 24(1) must be distinguished from subsection 52(1) of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". Whereas section 52 allows the courts to invalidate laws or parts of laws for breaches of the constitution (including the \"Charter\"), section 24 has broader capabilities (hindered only by the \"appropriate and just\" requirement) and can only be invoked when a claimant's rights are violated. Among other things, section 24 seems to give judges the power to place positive obligations upon a government, as well as to enforce more imaginative remedies.\n\nAn example of an imaginative remedy can be found in the landmark case \"Doucet-Boudreau\", (2003) 3 S.C.R. 3, as the claimants challenged the Nova Scotia government's delay in building French language schools as a breach of their section 23 rights. A lower-court judge had ruled in the claimants' favour, and then demanded the government report to him as construction progressed. Despite the Supreme Court minority's objections that this use of section 24 violated \"fundamental justice\" and the \"\"functus officio\"\" rule, in which a judge makes a ruling and afterwards has no role to play, the majority upheld the earlier decision. As the majority argued, section 24 is \"responsive to the needs of a given case,\" and as such \"novel remedies\" may not only be permissible, but also required. The \"appropriate and just\" limit was defined in this case as giving the courts themselves the right to determine what is appropriate and just (although they should keep in mind traditional common law limits on judicial power; in this case it was denied that \"functus officio\" was violated), and also as requiring courts to remember that section 24 is itself a part of the constitution and allows judges to carry out their function of enforcing rights.\n\nThese section 24(1) remedies may only be dispensed by a \"court of competent jurisdiction\". In \"R. v. Rahey\" (1987), it was found that in any case, provincial superior and appellate courts, and courts created by the federal government, will qualify as a court of competent jurisdiction and may award remedies where it is considered \"appropriate and just\". An inferior provincial court may qualify as a court of competent jurisdiction where the remedy sought relates to trial procedure. \n\nAn administrative tribunal may qualify as a court of competent jurisdiction where it has been granted statutory jurisdiction over the parties, subject matter, and remedy sought. It is important to note that the jurisdiction over \"remedy sought\" means the jurisdiction as granted by statute, irrespective of the total remedies available under section 24(1) that may be applied by other courts. Even where a tribunal is not found to be a court of competent jurisdiction it is still nonetheless capable of applying the \"Charter\". Where a tribunal has been given the power to decide questions of law it must conform to the Constitution in all of its application of law and so invalid laws must be treated as having no force or effect. However, even if the tribunal is a court of competent jurisdiction it cannot make a declaration of invalidity for any invalid law, it can only treat it as no force or effect. \n\nOverall, section 24's \"competent jurisdiction\" limit on which courts may award remedies, in \"R. v. 974649 Ontario Inc.\" (2001), was taken as meaning that while Charter rights are generous, they exist within a framework set up by Parliament and the provincial governments. These elected governments have the authority to grant varying degrees of powers to courts and tribunals, and deference should be shown to the governments' decisions. Reviewing courts may, however, have to exercise interpretation regarding whether lower courts have powers to award certain remedies if it is not explicit in the laws. This involves examining whether the lower court can consider Charter arguments and if allowing the lower court to dispense section 24(1) remedies would disrupt its general operations or be too much of a work burden for the court staff.\n\nPractices regarding what evidence may be brought against an individual in trials are addressed by section 24(2). When evidence is obtained through the violation of a \"Charter\" right, the claimant is able to apply to have the evidence excluded from the trial under this section. \n\nAt common law, all evidence, regardless of how it was obtained, can be submitted in a trial. The US exclusionary rule excludes all evidence acquired through the violation of the Bill of Rights. Canada has taken a middle ground, \"sometimes\" allowing for the exclusion of evidence, whenever its use threatens to bring the \"administration of justice\" into \"disrepute.\"\n\nIn the 2009 case \"R. v. Grant\", the Supreme Court of Canada created a new test to determine when the administration of justice has been brought into disrepute (replacing the 1987 test in \"R. v. Collins\"). The \"Grant\" test lists three factors the courts must consider: (1) the seriousness of the \"Charter\"-infringing conduct (focusing on a review of how society would view the actions of the state), (2) the impact of the breach on the \"Charter\"-protected interests of the accused (focusing on a review of how the state's actions affected the accused), and (3) society's interests in the adjudication of the case on its merits (focusing on a review of the importance and reliability of the evidence).\n\nThe 1987 case \"R. v. Collins\" had established three factors to consider when determining whether to exclude evidence. First, the courts would look at whether the admission of the evidence would affect the fairness of the trial. Second, they would look at the seriousness of the Charter violation, and third, they would look at the effect of excluding the evidence on the administration of justice. Typically, evidence obtained through violating an accused's right to have counsel (section 10(b)) or the right to security from unreasonable search and seizure (section 8) was excluded by this section.\n\nAfter \"Collins\" and other such decisions, by 2000 the Supreme Court of Canada had used the \"Charter\" to exclude evidence in 45% of section 24(2) cases that come before the Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879392", "title": "Atos Syntel", "text": "Atos Syntel\n\nAtos Syntel is a division of Atos and a multinational provider of integrated technology and business services. The company is led by Rakesh Khanna. Atos Syntel was created by the acquisition of Syntel, Inc. by Atos S.E., which was announced on July 22, 2018 and completed on October 9, 2018.\n\nOriginally founded in 1980 as Syntel International by Bharat Desai and Neerja Sethi in Troy, Michigan Syntel began by providing software staffing services to local corporations like \"General Motors\" (US), and some major governmental units, earning $30,000 in its first year.\n\n\nSyntel's early growth prompted their leadership to explore additional service offerings to augment the core IT staffing business. \n\nIn 1989, Syntel began providing development and maintenance services to its clients.\n\nIn 1992, with new development centers in India, Syntel began software outsourcing services with an onsite-offshore model, which connected software developers in India to project managers at client locations via an international telecommunications network.\n\nAtos Syntel provides IT services such as traditional application development and maintenance, data warehousing and business intelligence, as well as digital services like social media, mobile, cloud, analytics, IoT and AI and automation-powered solutions.\n\nThe company markets its services to enterprises in the banking and financial services, insurance, healthcare and life sciences, retail, logistics and telecom, and manufacturing sectors. Integral to its operating model are the use of offshore centers to deliver IT and KPO services.\n\nAtos Syntel operates facilities in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and offshore software development centers in Mumbai, Chennai, Tirunelveli, Hyderabad, Gurgaon and Pune, India, as well as Manila, Philippines. The Company's U.S.-based development centers are located in Phoenix, Arizona, Nashville, Tennessee, and Memphis, Tennessee.\n\nThe first Syntel offshore development centers were established in Mumbai in 1992, with centers opening in Chennai soon after. In 2005, Syntel opened a large technology campus in Pune. In May, 2010, Syntel also opened the first phase of a 27-acre (110,000 m2) technology campus in Chennai, India.\n\nRakesh Khanna is the CEO of Atos Syntel and a member of the Atos Executive Committee. He previously served as Syntel's CEO and President from November 3, 2016 until the October, 2018 merger with Atos. He previously served as Syntel's Chief Operating Officer January 2012 until November 2016, and as President of the Banking and Financial Services Business Unit from 2005 until 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1879395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879395", "title": "Ntombela kaMalandela", "text": "Ntombela kaMalandela\n\nNtombela kaMalandela, the son of Malandela kaLuzumana, was the proto-chieftain of the Zulu nation in the late 17th century. He was succeeded by his son Zulu kaNtombela.\n"}
{"id": "1879405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879405", "title": "Lennart Augustsson", "text": "Lennart Augustsson\n\nLennart Augustsson is a Swedish computer scientist. He was previously a lecturer at the Computing Science Department at Chalmers University of Technology. His research field is functional programming and implementations of functional languages.\n\nAugustsson has worked for Carlstedt Research and Technology, Sandburst, Credit Suisse, Standard Chartered Bank, Facebook, and is currently employed by X Development.\n\nAugustsson is the author of:\nHe was also a co-developer, with Thomas Johnsson, of Lazy ML, a functional programming language developed in the early 1980s, prior to Miranda and Haskell. LML is a strongly typed, statically scoped implementation of ML, with lazy evaluation. The key innovation of LML was to demonstrate how to compile a lazy functional language. Until then, lazy languages had been implemented via interpreted graph reduction. LML compiled to G-machine code.\n\nAugustsson was intimately involved in early LPMud development, both in the LPMUD driver and the CD mudlib. His MUD community pseudonym is Marvin.\n\nAugustsson has written three winning entries in the International Obfuscated C Code Contest:\n\n"}
{"id": "1879412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879412", "title": "Black River, Jamaica", "text": "Black River, Jamaica\n\nBlack River is the capital of St. Elizabeth Parish, in southwestern Jamaica. It developed as a port around the mouth of the river of the same name. Today the city is a centre of environmental tourism and a gateway to the Treasure Beach resort area. Treasure Beach and Crane Beach are to the south-east, with Luana Beach to the west. In the 18th and early 19th centuries, it was a thriving sugar port with a market for African slaves. \n\nGrowing prosperity in the sugar and lumber trade led to the construction of several warehouses. Some have been adapted as restaurants or as bases for eco-tours of the river.\n\nBlack River is one of the oldest European towns in the island of Jamaica, being shown on John Sellers' 1685 map. It was designed by the Leyden brothers of England, three wealthy men who were substantial land proprietors in the area.\n\nIn 1773 Black River replaced Lacovia, 19 miles to the north-east, as the capital of St. Elizabeth. Soon after it became the main commercial, economic and transshipment centre of the parish. By the early 1900s, it was second only to Kingston in economic importance on the island.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, Black River was a busy seaport for the lucrative logwood trade and for exports of rum, pimento and cattle skins from the nearby Holland, Vineyard, and Fullerswood plantations. The Logwood tree trunks were floated down the Black River to the port to be shipped to England for making of dyes.\n\nInto the early 19th century, slaves from Africa and other Caribbean islands were landed here and sold at auction at Farquharson Wharf (originally Town Wharf). This wharf still stands. In 2007, the United Kingdom celebrated the 200th anniversary of the Slave Trade Act 1807, which ended the African slave trade in its colonies. \n\nA monument was installed at Black River in 2007 to memorialize the slaves killed in the \"Zong\" massacre of 1781. More than 132 slaves were thrown overboard at sea from the \"Zong.\" They were sacrificed by the crew purportedly to save the remainder and the crew because of a shortage of water on board. The \"Zong\" finally landed at Black River. Its owners later sued for insurance claims for the slaves who had been killed, and the case was litigated in 1783 in Britain. The court rejected the owners' claim, as it was shown that the crew had made navigation errors that kept the ship at sea and threatened its supplies. Abolitionists publicized it, and the case became a catalyst for continuing efforts to abolish slavery. Britain abolished slavery in its empire (except for India, where it was endemic as part of the culture) in 1833.\n\nAs a major sea port, Black River became a commercial center on the south coast of Jamaica. Due to its wealth, in 1893 this was the first town in Jamaica to be lit by electricity. Ten years later, in 1903 it was the first city on the island to have automobiles. A telephone system was installed 10 years after the instrument was invented. \n\n"}
{"id": "1879413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879413", "title": "Troop Beverly Hills", "text": "Troop Beverly Hills\n\nTroop Beverly Hills is a 1989 American comedy film. Produced by the Weintraub Entertainment Group and directed by Jeff Kanew, starring Shelley Long, Craig T. Nelson, Betty Thomas, Mary Gross, Stephanie Beacham and introducing Jenny Lewis as Hannah Nefler. The film features a host of young actors, including Tori Spelling, Carla Gugino, Emily Schulman, Ami Foster, and Kellie Martin.\n\nPhyllis Nefler is a socialite wife recently separated from her husband Freddy, a wealthy owner of an auto shop chain. In an attempt to maintain the relationship with her daughter Hannah during the contentious divorce, Phyllis becomes the den mother of Hannah's unruly, leaderless local girl scout troop of Wilderness Girls.\n\nTheir first campout results in the troop getting caught in a rain squall, prompting Phyllis to take the girls to 'camp out' at the Beverly Hills Hotel. Despite her unorthodox ways, Phyllis demonstrates an unwavering commitment to the girls' well-being and ends up becoming a surrogate mother to the rest of the girls in the troop. Although Phyllis lacks the skills found in most troop leaders, due to a lack of interest in anything found in the 'wilderness', she resolves to teach the girls how to survive in \"the wilds of Beverly Hills,\" even customizing new merit badges for her troop.\n\nPhyllis's unorthodox methods run afoul of another scout leader, Velda Plendor, a mean-spirited, retired army nurse who runs the Culver City \"Red Feathers\" in which her own daughter, Cleo, is a member. Because Velda has considerable pull at the regional council level, she declares Phyllis's customized merit badges ineligible and sends her assistant troop leader, Annie Herman, to infiltrate Troop Beverly Hills and sabotage them. She repeatedly tries to get the troop disbanded and Phyllis fired, but her boss, Francis Temple, doesn't go along with it. All Velda and Annie's spying has done is show Francis that Phyllis may be unusual, but she has taken an active interest in these girls and is trying to help them learn to survive their personal environment rather than the wilderness.\n\nTroop Beverly Hills can gain recognition from the regional council by passing a series of tests at an upcoming Jamboree. In order to qualify, the troop needs to sell 1,000 boxes of cookies. To prevent this, Velda one-ups Troop Beverly Hills by selling cookies in their own neighborhood. Seeing this, Annie sides with Phyllis and offers her abilities and insider knowledge to the girls. Despite her unusual nature, Phyllis is beginning to learn at this point, as when her Hollywood friends ask her if they should solve the problem by buying the cookies, instead Phyllis points out that them doing that misses the entire point. This is supposed to be about building community. They may well end up going the glamour rout to sell the cookies, but it's still a legitimate attempt to do it meaningfully, at least for Beverly Hills. In fact, their star-studded sales drive sells over 4,000 boxes, more than enough to qualify for the Jamboree. Angry that Phyllis has the check for her and presents it to her at a party, Velda takes her anger out on Annie. Disgusted at Annie's costume, she once again threatens to make Annie work at K-Mart, which she constantly does to Annie. For the first time, Annie snaps back at her. \nPhyllis learns that Freddy wants to proceed with the divorce, including seeking joint custody of Hannah.\n\nThe morning after the party, Velda meanly tries to talk her out of attending the Jamboree, warning that it is 100 miles from the nearest 4-star hotel and that she will be responsible if anyone gets hurt. She sinks into a deep depression and decides to disband the troop, but Hannah and the other girls talk her out of it, Tessa commenting that she gave them a new sense of self-esteem, which is translated as \"That you made us like ourselves.\"\n\nDuring the Jamboree, the Red Feathers trick Troop Beverly Hills during competition by misdirecting them into a snake-infested swamp. In a stroke of good luck, a skunk scares them into running through a shortcut, making them first in the qualifying event. When Velda cheats again by going into a restricted area used only for hunting, she breaks her ankle after falling into a hole. The Red Feathers, led now by Velda's daughter Cleo, leave her behind for the sake of winning. Troop Beverly Hills finds her and, after Tessa diagnosis Velda as having a broken ankle, and a severe personality disorder, the girls reluctantly carry her to the finish line after Phyllis reminds the girls that they have to be considerate to those in need, even if they happen to be adversaries.\n\nThough the Red Feathers cross the finish line first, they're disqualified because council law stipulates the leader must be with the troop. Troop Beverly Hills is declared the winners of the Jamboree and are validated as Wilderness Girls. Francis Temple, the regional leader, fires Velda for cheating and for putting the Troop Beverly Hills girls in jeopardy. Freddy, intrigued by Phyllis's complete turnaround, is interested in calling off the divorce. After working through their issues with one another, they get back together.\n\nThe next year, Troop Beverly Hills is the designated Poster Troop and it is Velda who ends up forced to take the job at Kmart after her actions at the Jamboree made her virtually unemployable.\n\n\nMany landmarks in Beverly Hills are seen throughout the film, including: Beverly Hills Hotel, Cristophe Salon, Jane Fonda's \"Workout\", Wolfgang Puck's Spago, and Rodeo Drive.\n\n\"Troop Beverly Hills\" was poorly received by critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, it holds a rating of 25% based on 16 reviews. However, in recent years, it has become a cult classic for its subtle feminist message and being illustrative of the 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879419", "title": "Egmont (play)", "text": "Egmont (play)\n\nEgmont is a play by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which he completed in 1788. Its dramaturgical structure, like that of his earlier 'Sturm und Drang' play \"Götz von Berlichingen\" (1773), is heavily influenced by Shakespearean tragedy. In contrast to the earlier work, the portrait in \"Egmont\" of the downfall of a man who trusts in the goodness of those around him appears to mark a shift away from 'Sturm und Drang' values.\n\nIn \"Egmont\", Goethe relates the fight of Count Egmont (1522–1568) against the despotic Duke of Alba. Egmont is a famous Dutch warrior and the Duke of Alba represents the Spanish invader. Though under threat of arrest, Egmont refuses to run away and give up his ideal of liberty. Imprisoned and abandoned because of the cowardice of his people, and despite the desperate efforts of his mistress Klärchen, he is sentenced to death.\n\nThus, faced with her failure and despair, Klärchen puts an end to her life. The play ends on the hero's last call to fight for independence. His death as a martyr appears as a victory against oppression.\n\n\"Egmont\" is a political manifesto in which Egmont's craving for justice and national liberty is opposed to the despotic authority of the Duke of Alba. It is also a drama of destiny in which the Flemish nobleman, with fatalism, accepts the dire consequences of his straightforwardness and honesty.\n\nThe phrase \"Himmelhoch jauchzend, zu(m) Tode betrübt\" (heavenly joy, deadly sorrow) from Klärchen's song in the third act has become a proverb often quoted by European intellectuals as characteristic of the Romantic soul:\n<poem lang=\"de\" style=\"float:left;\">Freudvoll und leidvoll, gedankenvoll sein;\nLangen und bangen in schwebender Pein;\nHimmelhoch jauchzend, zum Tode betrübt;\nGlücklich allein ist die Seele, die liebt.</poem>\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em; float:left;\">In joy and in sorrow, be thoughtful;\nLong and fearful in suspended pain;\nRejoicing to heaven, grieving to death;\nBlessed alone is the soul that loves.</poem>\n\nWhen in 1809 the Burgtheater asked Ludwig van Beethoven, a great admirer of Goethe, to compose incidental music for a revival of the play, he accepted with enthusiasm. It recalled themes close to his own political preoccupations, already expressed in his opera \"Leonore\" (renamed \"Fidelio\" in the definitive 1814 version) and in his \"Coriolan Overture\" (in 1807). Besides the Overture, he wrote nine pieces of incidental music, of great quality but a little disconnected, culminating with the beautiful Klärchen's Death. Though the other pieces in the incidental music are seldom played, Beethoven's overture to \"Egmont\" is a staple of the concert repertoire. It has been used in various modern-day cultural output, a famous United Nations film being one of them. The overture was played at the memorial service commemorating the kidnapping and murders of 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe Short Film Palme d'Or-winning Hungarian film Overture, by János Vadász, uses Beethoven's Egmont Overture as the soundtrack for a series of images, featuring a hatching bird, referencing the rebellious nature of Egmont fighting for freedom despite all barriers. The film, nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary (Short Subject) has been described as one of the most influential short films in film history. The reviewer said it was \"among the most ingenious pairings of music and image in the history of the festival.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1879423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879423", "title": "Jones AT&amp;T Stadium", "text": "Jones AT&amp;T Stadium\n\nJones AT&T Stadium, previously known as Clifford B. and Audrey Jones Stadium and Jones SBC Stadium, is an outdoor athletic stadium on the campus of Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas, United States, built in the style of Spanish Renaissance architecture. It is the home field of the Texas Tech Red Raiders football team of the Big 12 Conference.\n\nClifford B. and Audrey Jones Stadium opened in 1947. The original seating capacity was 27,000.\n\nIn 1959 the stadium's first expansion raised the seating to 41,500. The existing east stands were moved a few feet at a time via steel rollers upon Santa Fe Railroad rails and moved further east, and the playing surface was lowered below street level, to accommodate the new lower bowl. It was expanded again in 1972 with new red, metal seats on the north side bringing capacity of 48,000.\n\nThe largest renovation project to date was the construction of a $51.9 million, press box on the stadium's west side that included luxury suites, club seating and decks for television cameras and the press. The project added 2,000 seats and was completed during the 2003 season.\n\nThe stadium name was changed to Jones SBC Stadium in 2000 due to a naming rights agreement with SBC Communications, then being led by Texas Tech alumnus and CEO Edward Whitacre, Jr.. SBC Communications funded a large part of the stadium's West Stadium Club expansion. On April 6, 2006, the facility officially changed names again, this time to Jones AT&T Stadium as a result of SBC's purchase of AT&T Corporation and adoption of AT&T as its new corporate name.\n\nFor 2006, the stadium was upgraded with a $2 million inner field wall that matches the traditional Texas Tech style brick façade. An inscribing of the Matador Song at the Double T in the north and south end zones was also added.\n\nIn February 2006, the university announced plans to add $60 million worth of upgrades including additional luxury suites, a 1,000-car parking garage, an upper deck, a facade on the east side of the stadium and more seating. The entire project was set to begin following the 2006 season but was cancelled before being re-initiated as a different project in 2008.\n\nOn August 7, 2008, the Texas Tech Board of Regents announced a $25 million expansion project. The planned expansion added a Spanish Renaissance-themed façade to the east side of the stadium. In addition to the improvements to the exterior of the facility, the expansion added 1,000 general-admission seats, 550 club seats, and 26 suites. Texas Tech allocated a total of $19 million to the expansion and added another $6 million through fund-raising initiatives.\n\nOn November 20, 2008, university officials announced that the project's fundraising goal had been exceeded. Most of the money came from private donations, including a large contribution from AT&T and a $1 million matching gift from Texas Tech System Board of Regents member, Larry Anders. A small amount of the funds was delegated to come from future ticket sales. Groundbreaking ceremonies for the expansion took place on November 29, 2008. Construction began following the 2008 season, and was completed in 2010, bringing the total amount of suites to 89 and seating capacity to 60,454.\n\nIn May 2009, it was announced an additional 6,100 seats would be added in the northeast and northwest end zones by mid-season. The additional general admission seating was opened in the north end of the stadium on October 24, 2009, bringing capacity at that time to 58,930.\n\nIn January 2013, construction began adding another 368 seats in the north end zone, in addition to an observation decks that holds 40. The $16 million project also included a significantly upgraded jumbotron with a new sound system, a Spanish Renaissance-themed colonnade, and a new north end zone concourse connecting the two stadium halves. Along with the other additions, 157 feet of ribbon board were added on the north end zone; more than 160 linear feet in the northeast and northwest corners of the stadium, and 94 lineal feet in the south end zone over the athletic offices. The construction was completed in November 2013.\n\nAs part of these renovations, the Double T scoreboard was also updated with new white LED panels and many seats in the stadium were repainted red. Additionally, AT&T completed an upgrade to its distributed antenna system in the stadium, increasing data capacity and call reliability.\n\nPrior to the 2016 season, the north end zone was further renovated. What was the ticket office was converted into a club area and premium loge seating was added outside. A remnant of the grass berm that originally encircled the north bowl was converted from grass to artificial turf as well.\n\nOn August 29, 2014, a $185 million fundraising campaign was announced for multiple athletic projects. It is the first solely athletic focused campaign started by the university. The headlining project of the campaign is a renovation of the south end zone athletic offices into a premium seating area with luxury suites. Replacing of stadium seatbacks and FieldTurf is also included in the project's budget.\n\nThe unique Double T scoreboard modeled in the fashion of Texas Tech's logo is emplaced on the roof of the athletic department offices in the south end zone and was installed prior to the beginning of the 1978 season. The scoreboard has remained in place through multiple stadium renovations due to its iconic and symbolic value, and received upgraded white LED panel installations in 2013.\n\nThe playing field runs in the traditional north-south configuration and sits 30 feet below grade at an elevation of above sea level.\n\nWhen the stadium opened in 1947, the playing field featured a grass playing surface until it was replaced with AstroTurf in 1970. In 2006, FieldTurf replaced the AstroTurf playing field.\n\nAfter numerous renovations and expansions, Jones AT&T Stadium currently seats 60,454. The capacity makes the stadium the 44th largest college football stadium in the United States. Officially, Jones AT&T Stadium has the third-highest seating capacity of any college-specific venue in Texas behind Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium in Austin and Kyle Field in College Station, but when referred to by actual seating capacity the stadium drops to fifth behind San Antonio's Alamodome and Houston's Rice Stadium.\n\nThere are 13,750 seats designated for students between 14 sections. An additional section was allotted to students following record demand during the 2013 season.\n\nDue for completion prior to the commencement of the 2013 season, the $11 million jumbotron mounted in the north end zone of the stadium is one of the largest in the country. The high-definition jumbotron measures 100 feet wide by 38 feet tall with of screen space, placing it at a ranking of 16th nationally by square footage in purely NCAA football stadiums, and 8th among HD screens. Additionally, the board ranks 4th in the Big 12 Conference in square footage behind Baylor University's McLane Stadium, the University of Texas at Austin's Darrell K Royal–Texas Memorial Stadium, and the University of Oklahoma's Gaylord Family Oklahoma Memorial Stadium.\n\nThe entire support structure measures 190 feet wide and 57 feet tall, making it the largest overall in the Big 12. The entire project includes 275 tons of steel above ground and 54 tons below ground, embedded in about of concrete. Six piers on each side of the structure plunge to a depth of near . The video board, with a pixel pitch of 16mm and 4 megapixels, also includes sound banks 38 feet tall and 16 feet wide. The video board supports were covered with a decorative Spanish Renaissance architecture facade and feature wells for shooting pyrotechnics.\n\nThe Coaches All-America Game, a postseason college football all-star game that served as the concluding game of the college football season, was hosted at Jones AT&T Stadium from 1970–1975. The all-star game was sponsored by the American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) and profits from ticket sales and television rights went to fund AFCA scholarships. Prior to the Coaches All-America Game relocating to Lubbock, from 1961 to 1965, War Memorial Stadium in Buffalo, New York, served as host and prior to relocating to Lubbock due to attendance issues, Atlanta Stadium hosted the game from 1966 to 1969. Lubbock won the bid to host the game over newer stadiums in larger cities, Memorial Stadium in Memphis, Tennessee and San Diego Stadium in San Diego, after the AFCA was convinced that Lubbock's advantages as a college town without competing entertainment would fill the stands with existing college football fans from West Texas.\n\nThe first game held at Jones Stadium took place only 47 days after downtown Lubbock was hit by a tornado in 1970. The stadium's newly installed AstroTurf was unharmed, but some of the light towers on the east side—which had recently been fitted with extra lights for the color telecast of the All-America Game—were bent or snapped off. Even with the surrounding circumstances, the inaugural Jones Stadium game drew 42,150 in attendance, a record attendance that broke set in any prior Coaches All-America Game in Buffalo or Atlanta. The game finally found success by an attendance standard, drawing 285,786 attendees over 7 years. By the time of the final Coaches All-America Game in 1976, more players declined to participate in the all-star game as rookies and NFL owners had little to gain, and much to lose due to injury risks. The AFCA reluctantly dropped the Coaches All-America Game, but continued to bestow All-America honors.\n\nThe Texas Tech Red Raiders played their first game in Jones AT&T Stadium on November 29, 1947—a 14–6 win against the Hardin–Simmons Cowboys. The Red Raiders have a posted a 336-162-13 () record at Jones AT&T Stadium record through the 2013 victory over Iowa State. Dave Curtis, a writer for \"Sporting News\" listed the stadium as having the number one ranking amongst college stadiums in home field advantage. The attendance record of 61,836 was set during the 2013 season against the Oklahoma State Cowboys. The 2012 Texas Tech Red Raiders football team set a season average attendance record of 57,108, breaking the record set previously in 2010. A 34-27 win over the Oklahoma Sooners on November 17, 2007, was the start of a 12-game winning streak, the longest Red Raider winning streak at Jones AT&T Stadium that lasted through October 24, 2009, with a 52-30 loss to Texas A&M Aggies. Texas Tech has gone undefeated at Jones AT&T Stadium in 14 seasons, with the most recent coming in 2005 and 2008.\n\nA student attendance record of 16,092 was set on September 12, 2013 against Texas Christian University, breaking the record 14,915 set just one week earlier. The increased demand for student seating in 2013 led to Texas Tech allocating additional sections for the purpose, which contributed to the setting of a total yearly student attendance record in addition to the individual game records. Since 2009, Texas Tech has seen a 25 percent increase in the student attendance average, bucking a national trend of declining attendance. The student section has been named as the best such section in the Big 12 Conference by ESPN and \"The Norman Transcript\".\n\nAs of April 2014, there were 34,100 season tickets sold for the 2014 season, surpassing the previous season ticket record of 32,227 that were purchased prior to the start of the 2010 season. In July 2014, the athletic department announced that all season tickets had sold out for the first time in school history with a record 38,502 tickets sold.\n\nThe 10 highest overall attendance records for Texas Tech football games at Jones AT&T Stadium:\n\n"}
{"id": "1879426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879426", "title": "John Henry Comstock", "text": "John Henry Comstock\n\nJohn Henry Comstock (February 24, 1849 – March 20, 1931) was an eminent researcher in entomology and arachnology and a leading educator. His work provided the basis for classification of butterflies, moths, and scale insects.\n\nComstock was born on February 24, 1849 in Janesville, Wisconsin. He studied at Cornell University, graduating in 1874. He also studied at Yale University and the University of Leipzig. In 1878 he married Anna Botsford. She was a wood engraver who beautifully illustrated many of his articles. Comstock became a professor of Nature Studies at Cornell.\n\nComstock worked as an instructor at Cornell until 1879. He worked at Vassar College from 1877 to 1879. Between 1879 and 1881 he became the chief Entomologist of the USDA in Washington, D.C. In 1882 he became professor of Entomology and Invertebrate Zoology at Cornell. He also did work in insect morphology and is best known as the co-proposer of the Comstock-Needham system with James George Needham.\nIn 1893, John Henry Comstock and Simon Henry Gage founded the Comstock Publishing Company in order to make textbooks on microscopy, histology, and entomology available at a reasonable price to students and to publish the works of Anna Botsford Comstock on nature study.\n\nComstock, through his own work and that of his students, had a significant influence in the development of entomology departments throughout the United States.\n\nHe suffered a stroke on August 5, 1926, and continued to live as an invalid until his death on March 20, 1931.\n\nThe Entomological Society of America gives out an award in each of its six branches to the outstanding graduate student of the year. This award is the John Henry Comstock Graduate Student Award.\n\nComstock published many articles including:\n\n\nAbout Henry and Anna:\n\n"}
{"id": "1879428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879428", "title": "Hamming bound", "text": "Hamming bound\n\nIn mathematics and computer science, in the field of coding theory, the Hamming bound is a limit on the parameters of an arbitrary block code: it is also known as the sphere-packing bound or the volume bound from an interpretation in terms of packing balls in the Hamming metric into the space of all possible words. It gives an important limitation on the efficiency with which any error-correcting code can utilize the space in which its code words are embedded. A code that attains the Hamming bound is said to be a perfect code.\n\nAn original message and an encoded version are both composed in an alphabet of \"q\" letters. Each code word contains \"n\" letters. The original message (of length \"m\") is shorter than \"n\" letters. The message is converted into an \"n\"-letter codeword by an encoding algorithm, transmitted over a noisy channel, and finally decoded by the receiver. The decoding process interprets a garbled codeword, referred to as simply a \"word\", as the valid codeword \"nearest\" the \"n\"-letter received string.\n\nMathematically, there are exactly \"q\" possible messages of length \"m\", and each message can be regarded as a vector of length \"m\". The encoding scheme converts an \"m\"-dimensional vector into an \"n\"-dimensional vector. Exactly \"q\" valid codewords are possible, but any one of \"q\" words can be received because the noisy channel might distort one or more of the \"n\" letters when a codeword is transmitted.\n\nLet formula_1 denote the maximum possible size of a formula_2-ary block code formula_3 of length formula_4 and minimum Hamming distance formula_5 (a formula_2-ary block code of length formula_4 is a subset of the strings of formula_8 where the alphabet set formula_9 has formula_2 elements).\n\nThen, the Hamming bound is:\n\nwhere\n\nIt follows from the definition of formula_5 that if at most \nerrors are made during transmission of a codeword then minimum distance decoding will decode it correctly (i.e., it decodes the received word as the codeword that was sent). Thus the code is said to be capable of correcting formula_15 errors.\n\nFor each codeword formula_16, consider a ball of fixed radius formula_15 around formula_18. Every pair of these balls (Hamming spheres) are non-intersecting by the formula_15-error-correcting property. Let formula_20 be the number of words in each ball (in other words, the volume of the ball). A word that is in such a ball can deviate in at most formula_15 components from those of the ball's centre, which is a codeword. The number of such words is then obtained by choosing up to formula_15 of the formula_4 components of a codeword to deviate to one of formula_24 possible other values (recall, the code is formula_2-ary: it takes values in formula_26). Thus,\n\nformula_28 is the (maximum) total number of codewords in formula_29, and so, by the definition of formula_15, the greatest number of balls with no two balls having a word in common. Taking the union of the words in these balls centered at codewords, results in a set of words, each counted precisely once, that is a subset of formula_26 (where formula_32 words) and so:\n\nWhence:\n\nFor an formula_35 code \"C\" (a subset of formula_26), the \"covering radius\" of \"C\" is the smallest value of \"r\" such that every element of formula_26 is contained in at least one ball of radius \"r\" centered at each codeword of \"C\". The \"packing radius\" of \"C\" is the largest value of \"s\" such that the set of balls of radius \"s\" centered at each codeword of \"C\" are mutually disjoint.\n\nFrom the proof of the Hamming bound, it can be seen that for formula_38, we have:\nTherefore, \"s\" ≤ \"r\" and if equality holds then \"s\" = \"r\" = \"t\". The case of equality means that the Hamming bound is attained.\n\nCodes that attain the Hamming bound are called perfect codes. Examples include codes that have only one codeword, and codes that are the whole of formula_39. Another example is given by the \"repeat codes\", where each symbol of the message is repeated an odd fixed number of times to obtain a codeword where \"q\" = 2. All of these examples are often called the \"trivial\" perfect codes.\nIn 1973, it was proved that any non-trivial perfect code over a prime-power alphabet has the parameters of a Hamming code or a Golay code.\n\nA perfect code may be interpreted as one in which the balls of Hamming radius \"t\" centered on codewords exactly fill out the space (\"t\" is the covering radius = packing radius). A quasi-perfect code is one in which the balls of Hamming radius \"t\" centered on codewords are disjoint and the balls of radius \"t\"+1 cover the space, possibly with some overlaps. Another way to say this is that a code is \"quasi-perfect\" if its covering radius is one greater than its packing radius.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879429", "title": "Robert Stell Heflin", "text": "Robert Stell Heflin\n\nRobert Stell Heflin (April 15, 1815 – January 24, 1901) was a legislator for Georgia and later Alabama.\n\nRobert Stell Heflin was born in Morgan County, Georgia, near Madison. Educated at Fayetteville, Georgia, where his parents settled in 1832. His father, Wyatt Heflin was the first elected Sheriff of Fayette County Georgia. He served in the Creek War in The Battle of Shepherd's Plantation. The battle was fought on June 9, 1836, between a force of Georgia militia and an attacking party of Creek warriors. The battle was a pivotal fight in the a war of resistance launched by Coweta, Yuchi, Hitchiti, and other tribal warriors trying to prevent the forced removal of their people from their traditional lands along the Chattahoochee River. Robert Stell was wounded by a muskett ball that broke his femur. From that event on, he always walked with a limp and a cane. His first formal job was a legal career as a Clerk of the Superior Court of Fayette County, Georgia, Fall of 1836-1840. He also studied law, and was admitted to the bar in 1840. He practiced law in Fayetteville, and served in the Georgia State Senate in 1840 and 1841.\n\nAs more land was being opened up for white Americans in east Alabama in 1844, Robert Stell and his family followed his father and siblings to Louina on the eastern side of the Tallapossa River. Randolph County, Alabama. While living in Alabama he was active in politics served in the Alabama House of Representatives in 1849, and in the Alabama State Senate in 1860. One of the few Southern Republicans, Robert Stell was opposed to secession. After resigning from the Alabama Legislature upon the State's secession, he made his home in north Randolph County Alabama. His brother, Superior Court Judge Thomas Heflin had become a wealthy and powerful individual in Alabama politics. Once the Civil War began, Robert Stell was viewed as a threat was arrested and carried to Andersonville, Georgia. Judge Thomas Heflin used his influence to have his brother Robert Stell released. When Sherman marched through Georgia, a battle was fought at Brown's Mill in Coweta County Georgia. The Union soldiers were routed by General Joseph Wheeler and some made it to the home of Robert Stell Heflin. They confiscated what they needed, and he was given vouchers by the Union soldiers for his remaining cattle and food. After the war, he was repaid for his property by the US government.\n\nFollowing the end of the war, he served as judge of probate for Randolph County by appointment in 1865 and was elected to that office in 1866. Probate Court Judges settled disputes involving property and land that became in contention after the Civil War. He was elected to the United States Congress as a member of the United States House of Representatives representing the 3rd Congressional District of Alabama and served March 4, 1869, to March 3, 1871, the first time representatives were allowed to serve from the Confederate States. He was best noted for introducing a bill that was passed and signed into law that provided an annual pension to wounded survivors and widows of militia members who served in the Creek Indian Wars. Heflin was one of the few US representatives to ever vote on the impeachment of a sitting US president, Andrew Johnson.\n\nShortly after Robert Stell was elected to Congress, gold was discovered at Dahlonega, Villa Rica and Carrollton Georgia; Gold Hill in Cleburne County and Cragford in Clay County, Alabama were sites of discovery. Robert Stell, along with other gold speculators, invested in the search for gold in east Alabama. This speculating ultimately cost him almost everything that he owned.\n\nRobert Heflin died in 1901 near Wedowee, Alabama, and his remains were interred in the Masonic Cemetery in Wedowee along with his first wife Elizabeth Phillips Heflin and Mentoria Reeves Heflin. Because of his political beliefs, he is not buried with the remainder of the Heflin Family located at Concord Church near Wadley Alabama.\n\nHe was the uncle of Alabama US Senator James Thomas Heflin and granduncle of Alabama US Senator Howell Heflin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879432", "title": "Toyotomi Hidenaga", "text": "Toyotomi Hidenaga\n\n, formerly known as .\n\nHe was a half-brother of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, one of the most powerful and significant warlords of Japan's Sengoku period. He was also known by his court title, . He promoted Tōdō Takatora to chief engineer. He led Hideyoshi's vanguard force a few years later into Satsuma Province, contributing heavily to his half-brother's victories in gaining control of Kyūshū. Hidenaga was awarded the provinces of Kii, Izumi and Yamato, reaching a governance of one million \"koku\".\nHe was regarded as Hideyoshi's brain and right-arm. He died in Kōriyama, Yamato Province (now Nara Prefecture), and his tomb is called .\n\nHe took part in the 1582 Battle of Yamazaki, the Invasion of Shikoku (1585), and the 1587 Battle of Takajo, Battle of Sendaigawa and Siege of Kagoshima.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1879435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879435", "title": "Cooling down", "text": "Cooling down\n\nCooling down (also known as limbering down or warming down) is an easy exercise, done after a more intense activity, to allow the body to gradually transition to a resting or near-resting state. Depending on the intensity of the exercise, cooling down can involve a slow jog or walk. With lower intensities stretching can be used. Cooling down allows the heart rate to return to its resting rate. Anecdotally cooling down may reduce dizziness for professional or serious athletes and vocal performers after strenuous workouts. Studies are currently inconclusive as to whether the process actually reduces delayed-onset muscle soreness and muscle soreness not caused by lactate production during intense exercise. Some have shown a weak correlation: however, the majority of recent studies discount the relationship. One study has shown that athletes who perform an appropriate cool-down are less likely to become injured.\n\nCool downs should involve the following important steps to ensure an effective cool down. After exercise, a gradual yet continuous decrease in exercise intensity (such as from a hard run to an easy jog to a brisk walk) should be the first step in cooling down the body. Duration can vary for different people, but 3–10 minutes is considered adequate. Stretching, especially static stretching allows the muscles to be elongated and lengthened. This is the next step athletes should take to cool down. Rehydration is an essential part of the procedure and should be done either during stretching and light intensity or after these steps. Refuelling the body with water and sports drinks will keep the body hydrated.\n\nStretching is a very important factor in the procedure of cooling down. Stretching allows the bodies muscles to build elasticity and repair from aerobic and anaerobic exercise.\n\nStatic stretching is the appropriate form of stretching to aid in the cooling down procedure. It aids in decreasing the body's temperature, removing lactic acid from the muscles and increasing flexibility. Each stretch should be held for a minimum of 10–20 seconds and stretched to the point of mild discomfort but not pain. Each muscle used in mid-high intensity exercise should then be stretched during the cool down.\n\nThis is a popular process for elite sporting clubs and athletes. It involves using either ice vests, cooling products or manually cooling down the body through gentle light intensity exercise to cool down the body during half time or breaks in an activity or sport. Half-time cooling down has proven to decrease body temperature and increase aerobic performance. Many sporting groups use cooling down jackets during half-time. Australian elite sporting teams such as those in the AFL, Olympic teams, military and elite athletes across all sporting fields use cooling down vests to increase performance and gain a competitive advantage over their competition.\n\nDuring aerobic exercise, peripheral veins, particularly those within a muscle, dilate to accommodate the increased blood flow through exercising muscle. The skeletal-muscle pump assists in returning blood to the heart and maintaining cardiac output. A sudden cessation of strenuous exercise may cause blood to pool in peripheral dilated veins which may cause varicose veins. A cool-down period allows a more gradual return to venous tone. The heart will also need to beat faster to adequately oxygenate the body and maintain blood pressure.\n\nIt is theorised that individuals predisposed to, suffering from, or at risk for cardiovascular disease may be at risk for potential negative cardiovascular outcomes if a cool down is not completed following exercise bouts due to a rapid decrease in blood reaching areas of the heart (with narrowed blood vessels due to present cardiovascular disease).\nThis, however, is only a theory, and clinical evidence for this is currently lacking.\n\nMuscular and skeletal injuries have also been found to increase when the cool down procedure is neglected. Ankle injuries are one of the most common injuries athletes and participants are at risk of obtaining when the cool down is performed ineffectively or not at all. Injuries are decreased significantly when the cool down is performed for an adequate amount of time compared to only a short period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879439", "title": "War Memorial Stadium (Laramie, Wyoming)", "text": "War Memorial Stadium (Laramie, Wyoming)\n\nWar Memorial Stadium, also known as Jonah Field at War Memorial Stadium, is an outdoor college football stadium on the campus of the University of Wyoming in Laramie. It is the home field of the Wyoming Cowboys of the Mountain West Conference. It is the largest stadium in the state, and the only college football venue in the state. The field is named after a natural gas field at the Green River Basin in Sublette County.\n\nAt an elevation of above sea level, War Memorial Stadium is the highest Division I FBS college football stadium in the United States, followed by the Air Force Academy's Falcon Stadium at . Lying between them in elevation is the Walkup Skydome of FCS Northern Arizona University at .\n\nAlong with the War Memorial Fieldhouse, War Memorial Stadium was built in the spring and summer of 1950. The stadium replaced Corbett Field, a small field opened in 1922 and located southeast of Half Acre Gym in land now used by the Business School and the student union parking lot.\n\nIt originally sat 20,000 in grandstands on the east and west sides of the field. In 1970, the western upper deck, containing 5,500 seats and a new press box, was added and in 1978 the eastern press box and northern bleachers were added, bringing capacity up to 33,500. The playing field runs mostly in the traditional north–south configuration; it is slightly skewed to the northeast and southwest about 10°.\n\nBelow the new north end zone scoreboard is a statue \"Cowboy Tough\" by Chris Navarro. \"Fanning a Twister\", located to the north of the stadium at the main entrance to the athletic complex, is modeled after a photo of Guy Holt riding \"Steamboat\", the 1909 winner of \"Worst Horse\" at Frontier Park in Cheyenne. In the 1920s, an equipment manager named Deane Hunton found the picture. Thinking it embodied the spirit of the athletics program and the cowboy life, he stenciled an outline of the photograph, which became the iconic logo of the university (also found on Wyoming license plates since 1936 and many other places around the state).\n\nIn 2001, a new video scoreboard was added and the bleachers in the north end zone were moved to the south end zone. In 2004, the western stands were refurbished and the press box expanded. In 2005, the natural grass at War Memorial Stadium was replaced by infilled artificial turf, similar to FieldTurf. The new surface, known as \"Desso Challenge Pro 60 Monofilament Synthetic Turf,\" was the first of its kind in Division I-A (now FBS) football. It was replaced in 2013 by FieldTurf with enhanced graphics. The field itself was renamed \"Jonah Field\" in honor of the Wyoming gas fields owned by the primary benefactors of the turf project, the Martin and McMurry families.\n\nCapacity was reduced in 2004 to 32,580 and in 2007 to 30,514. Before the 2010 season, the new Wildcatter Stadium Club and Suites opened and capacity was further reduced to 29,181. The Wildcatter features 12 individual suites along with a stadium-club area that contains 256 indoor seats.\n\nIn addition to UW home games, the stadium also hosted the WHSAA State Football Championships 2009–2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879440", "title": "Oxygen bar", "text": "Oxygen bar\n\nAn oxygen bar is an establishment, or part of one, that sells oxygen for recreational use. Individual scents may be added to enhance the experience. The flavors in an oxygen bar come from bubbling oxygen through bottles containing aromatic solutions before it reaches the nostrils: most bars use food-grade particles to produce the scent, but some bars use aroma oils.\n\nIn 1776, Thomas Henry, an apothecary and Fellow of the Royal Society of England speculated tongue in cheek that Joseph Priestley’s newly discovered dephlogisticated air (now called oxygen) might become \"as fashionable as French wine at the fashionable taverns\". He did not expect, however, that tavern goers would \"relish calling for a bottle of Air, instead of Claret.\" \n\nAnother early reference to the recreational use of oxygen is found in Jules Verne's 1870 novel \"Around the Moon\". In this work, Verne states:\n\nModeled after the \"air stations\" in polluted downtown Tokyo and Beijing, the first oxygen bar (the O2 Spa Bar) opened in Toronto, Canada, in 1996. The trend continued in North America and by the late 1990s, bars were in use in New York, California, Florida, Las Vegas and the Rocky Mountain region. Customers in these bars breathe oxygen through a plastic hose inserted into their nostrils. Oxygen bars can now be found in many venues such as nightclubs, salons, spas, health clubs, resorts, tanning salons, restaurants, coffee houses, bars, airports, ski chalets, yoga studios, chiropractors, and casinos. They can also be found at trade shows, conventions and corporate meetings, as well as at private parties and promotional events.\n\nOxygen bar guests pay about one U.S. dollar per minute to inhale a percentage of oxygen greater than the normal atmospheric content of 20.9% oxygen. This oxygen is produced from the ambient air by an industrial (non-medical) oxygen concentrator and inhaled through a nasal cannula for up to about 20 minutes.\n\nThe machines used by oxygen bars or oxygen vendors differ from the typical medical-issue machine, although customers use the cannula, the rubber tube apparatus that fits around the ears and inserts in the nostrils, to breathe in the oxygen. Customers can enhance their experience by using aromatherapy scents to be added to the oxygen, such as lavender or mint.\n\nIt has been claimed by alternative medicine that the human body is oxygen-deprived, and that oxygen will remove \"toxins\" and even cure cancer. Proponents claim this practice is not only safe, but enhances health and well-being, including strengthening the immune system, enhancing concentration, reducing stress, increasing energy and alertness, lessening the effects of hangovers, headaches, and sinus problems, and generally relaxing the body. It has also been alleged to help with altitude sickness. However, no long-term, well-controlled scientific studies have confirmed any of the proponents' claims. Furthermore, the human body is adapted to 21 percent oxygen, and the blood exiting the lungs already has about 97 percent of the oxygen that it could carry bound to hemoglobin. Having a higher oxygen fraction in the lungs serves no purpose, and may actually be detrimental.\n\nThe medical profession warns that individuals with respiratory diseases such as asthma and emphysema should not inhale too much oxygen.\nHigher than normal oxygen partial pressure can also indirectly cause carbon dioxide narcosis in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).\nThe FDA warns that in some situations, droplets of flavoring oil can be inhaled, which may contribute to an inflammation of the lungs. Some oxygen bar companies offer safe water-based aromas for flavoring in order to maintain compliance and stay within FDA guidelines.\n\nOxygen may also cause serious side effects at excessive doses. Although the effects of oxygen toxicity at atmospheric pressure can cause lung damage,\nthe low fraction of oxygen (30–40%) and relatively brief exposures make pulmonary toxicity unlikely. Nevertheless, due caution should be exercised when consuming oxygen. In the UK, the Health and Safety Executive publishes guidance on equipment (including tubing) and on staff training, as well as warning on potential hazards, and makes several recommendations to ensure safe practice, principally to minimise fire risks.\n\nAnother concern is the improper maintenance of oxygen equipment. Some oxygen concentrators use clay filters which cause micro-organisms to grow, creating an additional danger that can cause lung infections.\n\nRaised concentrations of oxygen increase the risk of ignition, the rate and heat of combustion, and the difficulty of extinguishing a fire. Many materials that will not burn in air will burn in a sufficiently high partial pressure of oxygen.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act defines any substance used for breathing and administered by another person as a prescription drug.\nMelvin Szymanski, a consumer safety officer in the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, has explained that at one end of the hose is a source of oxygen, so the individual providing the hose and turning on the supply is dispensing a prescription drug. He commented that \"Although oxygen bars that dispense oxygen without a prescription violate FDA regulations, the agency applies regulatory discretion to permit the individual state boards of licensing to enforce the requirements pertaining to the dispensing of oxygen.\"\n\nCanadian Society of Respiratory Therapists says that \"As health professionals, we cannot ethically or morally support providing oxygen therapy to those who do not require it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1879441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879441", "title": "Raritan Valley Community College", "text": "Raritan Valley Community College\n\nRaritan Valley Community College (RVCC) is a public community college in North Branch, New Jersey. RVCC offers Associate degree programs leading to an Associate of Arts (A.A.), Associate of Science (A.S.), Associate of Fine Art (A.F.A), or an Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.), as well as certificate programs and continuing education courses.\n\nThe college was founded in late 1965 as Somerset County College and opened to its first class of students in the fall of 1968. It was given its present name in 1987, when it became the county college for Hunterdon County as well as its home of Somerset County. It was the first community college in New Jersey to be sponsored by two different counties. Raritan Valley's University Center offers degree completion programs from a number of schools and university partners including Rutgers University.\n\nRaritan Valley Community College is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. Programs offered by the college are accredited by the New Jersey Board of Nursing, the National League of Nursing, the Commission on Opticianry Accreditation and by the American Bar Association.\n\nThe library at Raritan Valley Community College officially opened in March, 1985, along with the College Performing Arts Center. In 1993, the 25th anniversary of the college, the library was named in honor of founding trustee Evelyn S. Field.\n\nThe Evelyn S. Field Library is the center for research and information at Raritan Valley Community College. The library faculty develops the collection in collaboration with classroom faculty to support the educational program.\n\nThe Evelyn S. Field Library provides borrowing privileges and discretionary access to information and resource sharing for Somerset and Hunterdon county residents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879453", "title": "Mercury sulfide", "text": "Mercury sulfide\n\nMercury sulfide, mercuric sulfide, mercury sulphide, or mercury(II) sulfide is a chemical compound composed of the chemical elements mercury and sulfur. It is represented by the chemical formula HgS. It is virtually insoluble in water.\n\nHgS is dimorphic with two crystal forms:\nCrystals of red, α-HgS, are optically active. This is caused by the Hg-S helices in the structure.\n\nβ-HgS is precipitated as a black powder when HS is bubbled through solutions of Hg(II) salts. β-HgS is unreactive to all but concentrated acids. Mercury metal is produced from the cinnabar ore by roasting in air and condensing the vapour.\n\nWhen α-HgS is used as a red pigment, it is known as vermilion. The tendency of vermilion to darken has been ascribed to conversion from red α-HgS to black β-HgS. However β-HgS was not detected at excavations in Pompeii, where originally red walls darkened, and was attributed to the formation of Hg-Cl compounds (e.g., corderoite, calomel, and terlinguaite) and calcium sulfate, gypsum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879457", "title": "Java Anon Proxy", "text": "Java Anon Proxy\n\nJava Anon Proxy, also known as JAP or JonDonym, is a proxy system designed to allow browsing the Web with revocable pseudonymity. It was originally developed as part of a project of the Technische Universität Dresden, the Universität Regensburg and Privacy Commissioner of Schleswig-Holstein. The client-software is written in the Java programming language.\n\nCross-platform, free and open source, it sends requests through a cascade and mixes the data streams of multiple users in order to further obfuscate the data to outsiders.\n\nJonDonym is available for all platforms that support Java. Furthermore, \"ANONdroid\" is a JonDonym proxy client for Android.\n\nThe JonDonym client program allows the user to choose among several Mix Cascades (i.e. a group of anonymization proxies) offered by independent organisations. Users may choose by themselves whom of these operators they will trust, and whom they won't. This is different from peer-to-peer based anonymity networks like Tor and I2P, whose anonymisation proxies are anonymous themselves, which means the users have to rely on unknown proxy operators. However, it means that all the relays used for JonDonym-mediated connections are known and identified, and therefore potentially targeted very easily by hackers, governmental agencies or lobbying groups. This has for example led to the issues mentioned below, where court orders essentially gave all control over the whole system to the German government. As discussed below, solutions like international distribution of the relays and the additional use of Tor can somewhat mitigate this loss of independence.\n\nThe speed and availability of the service depends on the operators of the Mixes in the cascades, and therefore varies. More users on a cascade improve anonymity, but a large number of users might diminish the speed and bandwidth available for a single user.\n\nUse of JonDonym has been (and still is) free, but since financial backing of the original research project ran out on 22 June 2007, a startup, Jondos GmbH, was founded by members of the original project team. Jondos GmbH has taken over development and continues to work on an improved blocking resistance function that would make it easier for users from restrictive countries to get a connection to the system.\n\nAs a consequence, the JAP client has been renamed to JonDo and the service itself from AN.ON to JonDonym. JonDonym mix cascades are mostly operated by SMEs in multiple countries and mix cascades always include three mix servers for advanced security. As contractors of Jondos GmbH must ensure sufficient throughput of their mixes, anonymous web browsing at standard DSL speeds is possible. Cost free Cascades are still in operation, although they do not offer the low latency, multiple Mixes per Cascade or guaranteed bandwidth the commercial ones do.\n\nThe online activities of the user can be revealed if all Mixes of a cascade work together by keeping log files and correlating their logs. However, all Mix operators have to sign a voluntary commitment not to keep such logs, and for any observer it is difficult to infiltrate all operators in a long cascade.\n\nIn July 2003, the German BKA obtained a warrant to force the Dresden Mix operators to log access to a specific web address, which was hosting child pornography. AN.ON then decided to introduce a crime detection function in the server software in order to make this possible. The feature was made transparent by publishing the changed source code on August 18, 2003, and subsequently criticized by many users. For the Dresden Mix, the feature continues to be part of their software until today. Tracing activities back in the past is still technically not possible for the operators, but anonymity now extends only to the timepoint that a surveillance court order is issued. It was pointed out though that the new feature was covered by the AN.ON threat model and not a security leak by itself.\n\nAs a reaction to the threat from local authorities, the system has spread internationally. If the Mixes of a cascade are spread over several countries, the law enforcement agencies of all these countries would have to work together to reveal someone's identity. AN.ON publishes every year the number of successful and unsuccessful surveillance court orders. Further research is being done by AN.ON to make the crime detection functionality more privacy-friendly.\n\nSince May 2006, JonDonym can also be used as a client for the Tor network and since 2006 also for the Mixminion network. These features are still in an early stage and available only in the beta version of the software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879458", "title": "Carolyn Waldo", "text": "Carolyn Waldo\n\nCarolyn Jane Waldo, (born December 11, 1964 in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian former synchronized swimmer and broadcaster.\n\nCompeting both as a solo and as part of a duo with Michelle Cameron, Waldo experienced tremendous success in international competition. She was the first Canadian female to win two gold medals at one Olympic Games, winning both the solo and duo competitions at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. She also won a silver medal at the earlier 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.\n\nAs part of the duo with Cameron, Waldo also won at the 1985 Rome and Spanish Opens, 1985 FINA World Cup, 1986 Spanish Open, 1986 Commonwealth Games, 1986 World Championships, 1987 Pan Pacific Championships and the 1987 FINA World Cup.\n\nAn Officer of the Order of Canada, a four-time winner of the Velma Springstead Trophy, Waldo retired in 1988 and worked as a sportscaster for the television station CJOH in Ottawa, Ontario, until being laid off on 17 November 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879482", "title": "Gatorade Center", "text": "Gatorade Center\n\nGatorade Center (formerly HK Areena, Elysée Arena, Typhoon and Turkuhalli) is an arena in Turku, Finland. It is primarily used for ice hockey, and is the home arena of TPS, but it is also frequently used to host concerts and other events. Gatorade Center was the main venue for the 1991 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships and one of the venues in 1997 and 2003.\n\nGatorade Center opened in 1990 and holds 11,820 people. A record 12,041 attendance has been registered in 1991.\n\nJanet Jackson performed there on 13 May 1998 as part of her The Velvet Rope Tour.\n\nBon Jovi started their European leg of the Crush Tour at the arena on 5 August 2000.\n\nBruce Springsteen had two shows at the arena during his Wrecking Ball World Tour: 7 and 8 May 2013.\n\nEnrique Iglesias performed at the arena during his Euphoria Tour on 6 April 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879491", "title": "Makiko Ohmoto", "text": "Makiko Ohmoto\n\nIn March 2020, she had her appendix removed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879495", "title": "Butters' Very Own Episode", "text": "Butters' Very Own Episode\n\n\"Butters Very Own Episode\" is the fourteenth and final episode of the fifth season of the animated television series \"South Park\", and the 79th episode of the series overall. \"Butters' Very Own Episode\" originally aired in the United States on Comedy Central on December 12, 2001. In the episode, Butters survives a murder attempt by his own mother after discovering his father's homosexual dalliances and must travel back to South Park in time for his parents' wedding anniversary at Bennigan's. Meanwhile, Butters' parents join John and Patsy Ramsey, Gary Condit, and O. J. Simpson in lying to the press about who murdered Butters.\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States, except on syndicated broadcasts, where the episode is rated TV-14, instead. It is notable for being the first episode to center around Butters and a parody of 1950s sitcoms, albeit in a more dark comedic route.\n\nButters expresses excitement about his parents' upcoming anniversary, which they are going to celebrate at Butters' favorite restaurant, Bennigan's. A few days before their anniversary, his mother, Linda, asks Butters to spy on his father, Chris, in order to find out what his gift for her will be so that her own will not fall short. While spying, Butters watches Chris enter first a gay theater and then a gay bathhouse (though Butters is too naive to understand the nature of his father's activity). Upon returning home, Butters reports to his mother about his father's whereabouts, leaving her appalled by her husband's homosexual affairs, becoming visibly distraught and unhinged. Linda then attempts to murder Butters by dumping her car in a river with him inside.\n\nHours later, Chris enters the home to find his wife attempting to hang herself. He rushes to her side and explains that his homoerotic tendencies stem from chatting with other bi-curious and married men on the Internet. He insists he still loves her and does not want to lose his family over his \"addiction\". Linda then admits to having drowned Butters, to which Chris promises that he will not let her go to jail. The next day, the Stotches confront the press about their son, stating that he was abducted by \"some Puerto Rican guy\". As the media centers in on the \"missing child\" case, the pair are inducted into a club of infamous, highly publicized characters whose loved ones have also been \"taken from them by Some Puerto Rican Guy\", including Gary Condit, O. J. Simpson, and John and Patricia Ramsey.\n\nButters, however, survives his mother's attempt to kill him, and brushes off the incident as an accident. He then sets off home, eager to get back in time to celebrate his parents' anniversary with them. First does some singing and dancing at a seedy 'dance' club, and then heads down a scary road after getting directions from an elderly Mechanic. He returns home to find his parents fighting over all the lies they have told, and shocks them that he is still alive. Upon hearing what the quarrel was about, he scolds them for lying and trying to teach him to lie.\n\nDeciding to follow in their son's footsteps, they come clean to the media about the cover-up, revealing many unsettling facts to Butters in the process. Afterwards, Stan, Kyle and Cartman chastise Butters about his unhinged parents. Although he attempts to make light of the situation, Butters admits that he is now probably scarred for life, the boys are gonna really go to town on him, and sometimes lying really can be for the best.\n\nWritten by series co-creator Trey Parker and directed by animation director Eric Stough, \"Butters' Very Own Episode\" was rated TV-MA in the United States, and originally aired on December 12, 2001 on Comedy Central.\nIn the DVD commentary, Parker and Stone indicate they planned to make Butters the fourth group member after Kenny was written off the show, and created this episode as a prelude to his assuming a more prominent role in the series.\n\nIGN gave \"Butters Very Own Episode\" a positive rating of 8.5, stating, \"There are several classic moments in this episode, but it all works so well because of the setup.\"\n\nAt the time of the episode, suspicion hung over Gary Condit regarding the disappearance of Chandra Levy, and the Ramseys regarding the murder of their daughter JonBenét. However, someone else was later convicted for the murder of Chandra Levy and Condit was thought to be exonerated (Subsequently, prosecutors dropped all charges on July 28, 2016 after an associate of sole witness came forward with secret recordings in which witness admitted to falsifying testimony about the murder of Chandra Levy. The murder of Chandra Levy therefore remains unsolved.) The Ramsey family were also by the district attorney in the case. In a 2011 interview, \"South Park\" creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone stated that they regretted how Condit and the Ramseys were portrayed in the episode.\n\n\"Butters' Very Own Episode\", along with the fourteen other episodes from \"South Park: the Complete Fifth Season\", were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005. The set includes brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. The episode was also released on the two-disc DVD collection \"A Little Box of Butters\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1879506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879506", "title": "Mike Rumbles", "text": "Mike Rumbles\n\nMike Rumbles (born 10 June 1956) is a Scottish Liberal Democrat MSP for North East Scotland, reelected to the Scottish Parliament in the 2016 election (having previously represented West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine before being defeated at the 2011 election in the successor constituency of Aberdeenshire West).\n\nRumbles was born in South Shields in England and was educated at St James School in Hebburn, County Durham, Sunderland Polytechnic where he graduated with a BEd, and Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst. He served in the Royal Army Education Corps retiring as a Major in October 1994.\n\nRumbles was elected to the West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine constituency in the 1999 election, and comfortably held the seat in the 2003 election and 2007 election but was defeated by the SNP in 2011. Following the Scottish Parliament's establishment in 1999, Rumbles was Convenor of the Standards Committee when it was charged with investigating the so-called 'Lobbygate' scandal, in which the son of the then Secretary of State for Scotland John Reid was embroiled. He promoted the legislation to establish an independent Standards Commissioner, the first Committee Bill of the Parliament.\n\nOn 12 May 2005, Rumbles announced his intention to stand for the vacant post of leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats. His candidacy involved a distinct platform from his opponent Nicol Stephen. In particular, he specified a number of 'deal-breakers' for any coalition negotiations that might occur in the aftermath of the 2007 Scottish Parliament elections, with an absolute insistence on the implementation of key Liberal Democrat policies such as abolition of the council tax, and an enhancement of the Scottish Parliament's powers. He also aimed to give the Liberal Democrats a more equal status within the coalition. He lost to Stephen in June 2005, winning 23.4% of the vote.\n\nOn 2 July 2008, following Stephen's surprise resignation as leader, Rumbles again announced his intention to stand for the Scottish Liberal Democrat leadership. This time he stressed his commitment to reviewing party policy on whether to hold a national referendum on Scottish Independence (the policy of the Scottish National Party government). In the contest he faced former Ministers Ross Finnie and Tavish Scott. Scott won the contest comfortably.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879507", "title": "Timeline of international trade", "text": "Timeline of international trade\n\nThe history of international trade chronicles notable events that have affected the trade between various countries.\n\nIn the era before the rise of the nation state, the term 'international' trade cannot be literally applied, but simply means trade over long distances; the sort of movement in goods which would represent international trade in the modern world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879515", "title": "Dichlorine heptoxide", "text": "Dichlorine heptoxide\n\nDichlorine heptoxide is the chemical compound with the formula ClO. This chlorine oxide is the anhydride of perchloric acid. It is produced by the careful distillation of perchloric acid in the presence of the dehydrating agent phosphorus pentoxide:\n\nThe chlorine(VII) oxide can be distilled off from the mixture.\n\nIt may also be formed by illumination on mixtures of chlorine and ozone. It slowly hydrolyzes back to perchloric acid, which is also hazardous when anhydrous.\n\nClO is an endergonic molecule, meaning it is intrinsically unstable, decomposing to its constituent elements with release of energy:\n\nClO is bent with Cl−O−Cl angle of 118.6° giving the molecule C symmetry. The terminal Cl−O distances are 1.709 Å and the Cl=O distances are 1.405 Å. In this compound, chlorine exists in its highest formal oxidation state of +7, although the bonding in this molecule is significantly covalent.\n\nDichlorine heptoxide reacts with primary and secondary amines in carbon tetrachloride solution to yield perchloric amides:\n\nIt also reacts with alkenes to give alkyl perchlorates. For example, it reacts with propene in carbon tetrachloride solution to yield isopropyl perchlorate and 1-chloro-2-propyl perchlorate.\n\nDichlorine heptoxide is a strongly acidic oxide, and in solution it forms an equilibrium with perchloric acid.\n\nAlthough it is the most stable chlorine oxide, ClO is a strong oxidizer as well as an explosive that can be set off with flame or mechanical shock, or by contact with iodine. Nevertheless, it is less strongly oxidising than the other chlorine oxides, and does not attack sulfur, phosphorus, or paper when cold. It has the same effects on the human body as elemental chlorine, and requires the same precautions.\n"}
{"id": "1879516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879516", "title": "Gigantic (A Tale of Two Johns)", "text": "Gigantic (A Tale of Two Johns)\n\nGigantic (A Tale of Two Johns) is a documentary profiling the alternative rock band They Might Be Giants, featuring interviews with Frank Black, Sarah Vowell, Dave Eggers, Jon Stewart, and others. It was directed by AJ Schnack and premiered at the South by Southwest Film Festival in 2002. It was released in theaters by Cowboy Pictures, and on DVD by Plexifilm in 2003. The DVD includes bonus features such as music videos, vintage live performances, and more.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1879518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879518", "title": "Modern English (band)", "text": "Modern English (band)\n\nModern English are a new wave/post-punk band from Colchester, Essex, England formed in 1979 and best known for their songs \"I Melt with You\", \"Hands Across the Sea\", and \"Ink and Paper\". The group disbanded in 1987, only to reform two years later and then disband after another two years (1991). They reunited again in 1995 and have continued in various lineups since that time.\n\nFormed in Colchester, Essex, England, in 1979 by Robbie Grey (vocals), Gary McDowell (guitar, vocals), and Michael Conroy (bass, vocals), Modern English were originally known as The Lepers. The group expanded to \"Modern English\" when Richard Brown (drums) and Stephen Walker (keyboards) were subsequently added to the lineup of the band.\n\nAfter a single on their own 'Limp' label (not to be confused with America's Limp Records) in 1979, the band signed to 4AD the following year, with two further singles released, and a session for John Peel of BBC Radio 1 recorded before the band's debut album, \"Mesh & Lace\", in 1981, the band in the early days showing a strong Joy Division influence. A second Peel session was recorded in October 1981. The follow-up, \"After the Snow\" (April 1982), was more keyboard-oriented and was compared to Simple Minds and Duran Duran. It was also released in the United States by Sire Records the following year, where it reached number 70 on the \"Billboard\" chart, and sold over 500,000 copies. Grey said of the album, \"We used to think 'God, we'll never make a pop record. We're artists!', but things don't always turn out as you planned and when you actually create a pop record, it's so much more of a thrill than anything else\". The second single from the album was also a hit in the US, \"I Melt with You\" reaching number 76. When he reviewed the album, Johnny Waller of \"Sounds\" described the track as \"A dreamy, creamy celebration of love and lust, which deserves to be showcased on as 12\" single all by itself, with no B-side\", while his colleague Tony Mitchell described it as \"suburban amateurism at its most unrewarding\". The band relocated to New York City and worked on a third album, \"Ricochet Days\", which again made the top 100 in the US, after which the band left 4AD and were solely signed to Sire outside the UK and Canada. The album \"Stop Start\" (1986) was the last Modern English record released by Sire, with the band splitting up after its release. During 1983–1984, Grey, McDowell and Conroy were also involved with This Mortal Coil.\n\nRobbie Grey reformed Modern English in 1989 with Mick Conroy and Aaron Davidson to record a new album, \"Pillow Lips\", released in 1990 on the American TVT label. The album featured a re-recorded \"I Melt with You\", which was released as a single, and saw the band again in the \"Billboard\" top 100. The band split up for a second time in 1991, after contractual problems with TVT, with Grey forming Engine. In 1995, with legal issues with TVT sorted out, Engine evolved into the next incarnation of Modern English and signed to the Imago label, with Grey and Matthew Shipley (keyboards). This lineup recorded the 1996 album \"Everything's Mad\".\n\nRobbie Grey toured the US with a new Modern English lineup from 1998 to 2002 and travelled coast to coast across the US and recorded a new album with Hugh Jones (producer of earlier Modern English records). The songs written with guitarist Steven Walker (not to be confused with the band's original keyboardist) and including Matthew Shipley came together on the road and back home in London between tours. After a few years on the shelf, this collection of songs, entitled \"Soundtrack\", was released on 24 May 2010 on Darla, with Jon Solomon on drums.\n\nAlso in 2010, the original lineup of the band reformed (minus drummer Richard Brown) and toured the US in July and September 2010 and the UK and Paris in June 2011. They were invited by film director Mark Pellington to re-record \"I Melt with You\" for his movie of the same name. The current reformed line-up of the band includes original members Robbie Grey, Mick Conroy, Gary McDowell and Stephen Walker, augmented by Roy Martin on drums. They recorded a new album which was funded via Pledge with an originally planned March 2016 release date. The album was recorded, produced and mixed by Martyn Young from Colourbox and MARRS, who also adds additional keyboards. They also toured the \"Mesh & Lace\" album in the U.S. in 2016.\n\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Edit_summary"}
{"id": "1879522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879522", "title": "Dichlorine monoxide", "text": "Dichlorine monoxide\n\nDichlorine monoxide, is an inorganic compound with the molecular formula ClO. It was first synthesised in 1834 by Antoine Jérôme Balard, who along with Gay-Lussac also determined its composition. In older literature it is often referred to as chlorine monoxide, which can be a source of confusion as that name now refers to the neutral species ClO.\n\nAt room temperature it exists as a brownish-yellow gas which is soluble in both water and organic solvents. Chemically, it is a member of the chlorine oxide family of compounds, as well as being the anhydride of hypochlorous acid. It is a strong oxidiser and chlorinating agent.\n\nThe earliest method of synthesis was to treat mercury(II) oxide with chlorine gas. However this method is expensive, as well as highly dangerous due to the risk of mercury poisoning.\n\nA safer and more convenient method of production is the reaction of chlorine gas with hydrated sodium carbonate, at 20-30 °C.\n\nThis reaction can be performed in the absence of water but requires heating to 150-250 °C; as dichlorine monoxide is unstable at these temperatures it must therefore be continuously removed to prevent thermal decomposition.\n\nThe structure of dichlorine monoxide is similar to that of water and hypochlorous acid, with the molecule adopting a bent molecular geometry due to the lone pairs on the oxygen; resulting in C molecular symmetry. The bond angle is slightly larger than normal, likely due to steric repulsion between the bulky chlorine atoms.\n\nIn the solid state, it crystallises in the tetrahedral space group I4/amd, making it isostructural to the high pressure form of water, ice VIII.\n\nDichlorine monoxide is highly soluble in water, where it exists in an equilibrium with HOCl. The rate of hydrolysis is slow enough to allow the extraction of ClO with organic solvents such as CCl, but the equilibrium constant ultimately favours the formation of hypochlorous acid.\n\nDespite this, it has been suggested that dichlorine monoxide may be the active species in the reactions of HOCl with olefins and aromatic compounds, as well as in the chlorination of drinking water.\n\nDichlorine monoxide reacts with metal halides, with the loss of Cl, to form unusual oxyhalides.\n\nSimilar reactions have also been observed with certain inorganic halides.\n\nDichlorine monoxide is an effective chlorinating agent. It can be used for either the side-chain or ring chlorination of deactivated aromatic substrates. For activated aromatics such as phenols and aryl-ethers it primarily reacts to give ring halogenated products. It has been suggested that dichlorine monoxide may be the active species in the reactions of HOCl with olefins and aromatic compounds.\n\nDichlorine monoxide undergoes photodissociation, eventually forming O and Cl. The process is primarily radical based, with flash photolysis showing radical hypochlorite (ClO·) to be a key intermediate.\n\nDichlorine monoxide is explosive, although there is a lack of modern research into this behaviour. Room temperature mixtures with oxygen could not be detonated by an electric spark until they contained at least 23.5% ClO. which is an exceedingly high minimum explosive limit. There are conflicting reports of it exploding on exposure to strong light. Heating above 120 °C, or a rapid rate of heating at lower temperatures also apparently lead to explosions.\nLiquid dichlorine monoxide has been reported to be shock-sensitive.\n"}
{"id": "1879542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879542", "title": "Johannes Zwijsen", "text": "Johannes Zwijsen\n\nJohannes Zwijsen (28 August 1794, Kerkdriel, Gelderland – 16 October 1877, 's-Hertogenbosch, Brabant) was the first Roman Catholic Archbishop of Utrecht after the reestablishment of the episcopal hierarchy in the Netherlands in 1853.\n\nZwijsen was ordained a priest on 19 January 1817. He would first serve as a chaplain in Schijndel, after which he would become a pastor in Tilburg. During his time in Tilburg, he met the then heir apparent William II of the Netherlands. A strong friendship formed between the two, so strong even that some contemporaries implied a homosexual relationship. However, this seems to be founded merely in rumors. This unique bond that he shared with the king reached a culmination when he attended him at his deathbed in 1849. During this friendship with William II, Zwijsen became acquainted with the Dutch government, with people as Johan Rudolph Thorbecke in particular.\n\nOn 17 April 1842, he was consecrated Titular bishop of Geras and Coadjutor of the Apostolic vicar of s-Hertogenbosch, at Church of Saint Denis in Tilburg, by baron Cornelius Ludovicus van Wijkerslooth, ordaining bishop for the Netherlands. Zwijsen took as his episcopal motto: \"Mansuete et fortiter\", mild and strong. He would live up to this motto by keeping his head down whenever he got into conflict with the protestant population, even once telling Pope Pius IX that the best way to achieve anything in his country was to do it silently. \nThis did not mean he sat on his hands. He founded the Sisters of Charity of Our Lady Mother of Mercy as a teaching order, and the Brothers of Our Lady Mother of Mercy to carry out works of charity and works of mercy. In 1847 he was appointed Apostolic vicar of the Dutch Mission (Hollandse Zending), until 1848. \n\nWhen Pope Pius IX, with the apostolic letter \"\"Ex qua die\"\", reorganized the Catholic Church of the Netherlands, Utrecht was raised once more to an archbishopric, and Zwijsen was named the first archbishop; as administrator he also ruled the diocese of 's-Hertogenbosch. His connection to the Dutch government, one he had obtained through his friendship with William II, was most probably a factor in this appointment. He took up with great energy and caution the organization of the restored archdiocese, even though he had preferred it to be based in s-Hertogenbosch. By numerous excellent decrees he provided for the improvement of discipline, the encouragement of orders and of church associations and for the establishment of Catholic schools. In 1857 opened the diocesan seminary for the training of a competent clergy. In 1858 the cathedral chapters of the archdiocese were organized and in 1864 the first provincial synod was held. \n\nIn 1868 he resigned as archbishop of Utrecht, retaining only the direction of the diocese of 's-Hertogenbosch. Here he remained bishop until his death on October 16 1877.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879544", "title": "Joseph Gardner Swift", "text": "Joseph Gardner Swift\n\nJoseph Gardner Swift (December 31, 1783 – July 22, 1865) was an American soldier who, in 1802, became the first graduate of the newly instituted United States Military Academy in West Point, New York; he would later serve as its fourth Superintendent from 1812 to 1814, and as Chief of Engineers of the United States Army from 1812 to 1818.\n\nSwift was born on Nantucket Island, the son of Foster Swift and his wife, Deborah. At the age of six, he saw George Washington on Boston Common, an experience that made an indelible impression on him.\nIn 1792, the Swifts moved to Taunton, Massachusetts, where Joseph became the student of Reverend Simeon Doggett, who prepared him to enter Harvard College. Swift had read accounts of the American Revolution in his father’s diary and heard stories from a family friend, Major General David Cobb. With Cobb’s advice and assistance, Swift was appointed by President John Adams on May 12, 1800 as a cadet of artillerists and engineers. He reported for duty a month later at Newport Harbor.\n\nLater, in the summer of 1801, Secretary of War Henry Dearborn notified the Army that President Thomas Jefferson had directed the establishment of a military academy at West Point, New York. Swift reported as a cadet to the academy on October 14, 1801. On December 15, 1801, then-Major Jonathan Williams took command and several months later became the first Superintendent of the U.S. Military Academy. The Academy was established by law on March 16, 1802. Swift progressed well and was considered by Williams to be the foremost cadet. After a thorough examination, Swift became the first graduate of the Academy on October 12, 1802. Simeon Magruder Levy was the only other graduate in 1802.\n\nSwift remained at West Point until April 30, 1804, and in June of that year, became the superintending engineer of the construction of the defenses of the mouth of the Cape Fear River in North Carolina. In January 1805 he became the commander of Fort Johnson, North Carolina.\n\nSwift returned to West Point in 1807 and took command of the Academy in Williams' absence. He remained there until November 23 of that year, when the Academy was closed for the winter vacation. Swift was promoted to Major in February 1808 and assigned to lead the defenses of the Eastern Department covering the New England coast. He was assigned with Joseph Gilbert Totten and Sylvanus Thayer, also graduates of West Point. Once again, Swift was assigned to his old station at the mouth of the Cape Fear River where he was charged with superintending and inspecting southern coast defenses until 1812.\nIn July 1812, Jonathan Williams resigned as Chief Engineer of the Army, and Swift, then a lieutenant colonel and the next senior Engineer in the Army, assumed his command. His appointment as Colonel and Chief Engineer of the Army was unanimously confirmed in December 1812.\n\nPending his confirmation, Swift was ordered back to his duties to superintend the defenses of North Carolina. Before leaving Washington, he ordered Captain Alden Partridge, the senior Engineer officer at West Point, to open the Military Academy (then practically defunct) in the coming spring. Swift was 30 years old upon becoming Chief Engineer of the Army and Superintendent of the United States Military Academy.\n\nIn March 1813, Swift was called to Washington and consulted with the Secretary of War on the application of large appropriations for fortification of coastal defenses. He then reported to New York City to supervise the fortifications process, acting in his capacity as the Chief Engineer and Superintendent of the U.S. Military Academy.\n\nAs Superintendent, Swift made frequent trips to West Point; he initiated plans for a new mess hall, academic building, and South Barracks and was authorized to employ an acting chaplain to be Professor of Ethics, History, and Geography (the first such being Rev. Adam Empie). He remodeled the functions of the academic staff and assumed the duties of inspector of the institution to oversee the authority of the local commander, Captain Partridge.\n\nWith the repairs of New York Harbor completed and fortifications against the British fleet in place, Swift requested orders for the field. He became the Chief Engineer of the Northern Army under Major General James Wilkinson, which took him to the ill-fated St. Lawrence Campaign; here Swift won a citation for gallantry in the battle of Chrysler's Farm. He was breveted a brigadier general on February 19, 1814.\n\nThe Secretary of War refused Swift further field service because coastal defenses required attention and sent Swift again to New York where, in conjunction with the Committee of Safety, he established plans for coastal defenses for New York and Brooklyn and supervised thousands of volunteers working on the project. For that effort the Corporation of New York named him Benefactor to the City.\n\nAfter completing the defenses of New York, Swift was called upon to form a new system of infantry tactics, to reduce the Army to a peacetime establishment, and later, with Colonel George Bomford, to rebuild the U.S. Capitol in Washington D.C., which had been destroyed by the British in the War of 1812.\n\nShortly after the war, Congress authorized the President to employ Brigadier General Simon Bernard of the French Army, a distinguished engineer under Napoleon, as an assistant in the Corps of Engineers. He was placed at the head of the Board of Engineers while Swift became solely Superintendent of the Military Academy. Swift protested the admission of foreigners into the American military, who in the event of war might become enemies. However, Bernard stayed on the Board of Engineers until 1831.\n\nAs Superintendent, Swift recommended sending two Engineer officers to Europe to examine French and Dutch fortifications and to purchase books to form a library at West Point. It was also hoped that one of them would replace him as Superintendent. Swift also secured a loan from Jacob Barker, a rich Quaker merchant, because no government appropriations were available. Swift saved the institution from abandonment when he personally arranged a $65,000 loan at 7% interest.\n\nFor some time, Swift remained in local command at West Point, and in January 1817, proceeded to Washington to present his grievances to President James Madison. This resulted in Swift’s resuming his position in Washington at the head of the Corps of Engineers and leaving Bernard without any military control.\n\nSwift accompanied newly elected President James Monroe on his trip to examine the northern states and during the seven-week excursion was able to study the battlefields of the American Revolution and the War of 1812, as well as inspect arsenals, Navy yards and fortifications, and study the capacity of the country for defense. He also examined institutions of learning, particularly the Military Academy, in which Monroe was very interested.\n\nAt the time of this visit to West Point, it was decided that Partridge would be replaced by then-Major Sylvanus Thayer, who, in 1817, was appointed Superintendent of the Academy and later became known as \"the Father of West Point\". The Presidential tour continued to Maine, and Swift and a joint board of Army and Navy officers examined fortifications from Penobscot, Maine, to Connecticut. He also traveled to the Chesapeake Bay area and chose a site for a Navy yard at Norfolk, Virginia.\n\nIn 1818, just before leaving the military, Swift’s main duties were in Virginia. He studied the northern tributaries of the Chesapeake and made his last inspection of the Military Academy in September 1818. He was engaged with Governeur Kemble and four others in establishing the West Point Foundry at Cold Spring-on-the-Hudson. After contemplating civilian life for more than two years, he submitted his resignation on November 12, 1818, reserving all his rights as a brevet brigadier general in the Army, to be called into service in the event of war. He maintained this status until his death.\n\nSoon after he left the Army, Swift was asked by the Corps of Engineers to sit for a portrait in his honor. The portrait, painted by Sully, was hung in the Library at the Academy upon its completion and hangs there today.\n\nThe day after his resignation, Swift accepted the surveyorship of the Port of New York. As a civil engineer, he soon became involved in various important projects. In 1819, he was consulted on the feasibility of banking and draining the Newark Flats. In 1820 he was appointed by the Legislature of New Jersey to superintend the plan to open the Morris Canal improvement. In 1822 he was one of three Commissioners charged with regulating streets and drainage of the eastern part of the City of New York. In 1825, he was appointed as commissioner to determine the capacity of the Bronx and Croton Rivers to supply New York City with pure water.\n\nUnfortunately for Swift, during this time he decided to venture into business dealings on Wall Street. In 1825, he was elected vice president of a life and trust insurance company. The company failed, and all its members were indicted for conspiracy to defraud the state. Swift was acquitted but suffered the loss of all his property. Without means to support his family, Swift moved to a small farm belonging to his wife in Haywood County, Tennessee, where he built a small cabin and began growing cotton. Finding the title to his plantation defective and his children suffering from the weather, Swift returned to New York and to his career in civil engineering; within the following year took charge of the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad in Maryland.\n\nIn March 1829, he was appointed superintendent of the harbor improvements on Lake Ontario and held this position for sixteen years. While the lake works were suspended during the winter of 1829, Swift took charge of construction of a new railroad from New Orleans to Lake Pontchartrain that was routed five miles through a dense swamp, which was considered impassable as it could be neither drained nor piled. This was a pioneer railroad of the South, and perhaps the first in America where iron edge rails were used.\n\nIn 1832, Swift succeeded Benjamin Wright as Chief Engineer of the New York and Harlem Railroad, but interference from the Board of Directors caused him to resign.\n\nSwift moved to Geneva, New York, and Hobart College elected him Professor of Engineering and Statistics. Though he declined this honor, he accepted the membership offered to him in the Society of Statistics of Paris, France, and took a great interest in statistical and educational matters. In 1833, Swift was asked to present his views on how far the West Point system of discipline and instruction could be adapted to a university to be established in the City of New York. In 1834, he proposed a plan to Governor William L. Marcy for normal schools and advised the school system to secure the services of Professor Horace Webster as Superintendent of the Free Academy, which later became the College of the City of New York.\n\nSwift married Louisa Margaret Walker, the daughter of James and M.M. Walker, on June 6, 1805 in North Carolina. They had at least six children.\n\nSwift died on July 23, 1865 in Geneva, aged eighty-two, and was buried in Washington Street Cemetery in Geneva next to his wife, who had died in Geneva on November 15, 1855. Six of their children are also buried there:\n\nAlso buried there are three of their daughters-in-law and one of their grandsons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879547", "title": "Imperata cylindrica", "text": "Imperata cylindrica\n\nImperata cylindrica (commonly known as cogongrass or kunai grass )) is a species of perennial rhizomatous grass native to tropical and subtropical Asia, Micronesia, Melanesia, Australia, Africa, and southern Europe. It has also been introduced to Latin America, the Caribbean, and the southeastern United States. It is a highly flammable fire-adapted species, and can spread rapidly by colonizing disturbed areas and encouraging more frequent wildfires.\n\nThe species is most commonly known in English as \"cogongrass\", from Spanish \"cogón\", from the Tagalog and Visayan \"kugon\". Other common names in English include kunai grass, blady grass, satintail, spear grass, sword grass, thatch grass, alang-alang, lalang grass, cotton wool grass, and kura-kura among other names.\n\nIt grows from 0.6 to 3 m (2 to 10 feet) tall. The leaves are about 2 cm wide near the base of the plant and narrow to a sharp point at the top; the margins are finely toothed and are embedded with sharp silica crystals. The main vein is a lighter colour than the rest of the leaf and tends to be nearer to one side of the leaf. The upper surface is hairy near the base of the plant while the underside is usually hairless.\n\nCogongrass has an extensive rhizome network, the biomass of which accounts for 60% of the total biomass of the plant. They can penetrate are up to deep, but is typical in sandy soil.\n\nCogongrass is a fire-adapted species. It is highly flammable, even when still apparently green, particularly in tropical climates. It is not uncommon to see hillsides of cogongrass on fire. Cogongrass depends on regular fires to spread and maintain ecological dominance. Because of its density and high biomass, cogongrass provides a very high fuel load, enabling wildfires to burn faster, higher, and much hotter. This is hot enough to kill most competing plants, including trees. After a fire, cogongrass recolonizes the area using their rhizome network which is unaffected by the fire.\n\nA common expression in the Philippines is \"ningas cogon\" ('cogon brush fire'). It is a figure of speech for procrastination, specifically people who show a fervent interest in a new project but lose interest quickly, in reference to the propensity of cogongrass to catch fire and burn out quickly.\n\nThe plant contains the triterpenoids arundoin, cylindrin and fernenol.\n\nIt is used for thatching the roofs of traditional homes throughout south-east Asia.\n\nIt is planted extensively for ground cover and soil stabilization near beach areas and other areas subject to erosion. Other uses include paper-making, thatching and weaving into mats and bags. It is used in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nA number of cultivars have been selected for garden use as ornamental plants, including the red-leaved 'Red Baron', also known as Japanese blood grass.\n\nYoung inflorescences and shoots may be eaten cooked, and the roots contain starch and sugars and are therefore easy to chew.\n\nIt is used as an ingredient in the skincare brand Kiehl's Ultra Facial Cream for its high concentrations of potassium which provides a hydrating effect. Their website also states that indigenous native Australians may have used the plant as a substitute for salt due to its high saline content.\n\nThe plant has become naturalized in the Americas, Northern Asia, Europe and Africa in addition to many islands and is listed as an invasive weed in some areas. In the U.S. it survives best in the Southeast (and, according to a 2003 survey, has overtaken more acreage in that region than the notorious kudzu), but has been reported to exist as far north as West Virginia and Oregon. Worldwide it has been observed from 45°N to 45°S. It grows on wet lands, dry lands, areas of high salinity, organic soils, clay soils and sandy soils of pH from 4.0 to 7.5. It prefers full sun but will tolerate some shade. In Florida \"I. cylindrica\" is found in areas where the soil has been disturbed, such as roadsides, building sites, timber harvesting areas, and borrow pits. It is able to invade both moist and dry upland pine forests. Once established it often forms dense monocultures.\n\nIn addition to outcompeting species for resources, the grass also exhibits allelopathic tendencies. The chemicals it releases as well as the dense mat of vegetation that usually accompanies a cogongrass invasion gives it an advantage over indigenous plants.\n\nIt spreads both through small seeds, which are easily carried by the wind, and rhizomes which can be transported by tilling equipment and in soil transport.\n\nIn the Southeastern United States, state governments have various eradication efforts in place, and deliberate propagation is prohibited by some authorities. Control is typically by the use of herbicides. Currently, the most effective herbicides used to control growth are glyphosate and imazapyr. Burnoff is seldom successful since the grass burns at a high temperature causing heat damage to trees which would ordinarily be undamaged by a controlled burn and recovers from a burn quickly. Quarantine and extermination of this plant is especially difficult because cogongrass establishes root systems as deep as four feet, and regrowth can be triggered by rhizome segments as small as one inch.\n\nCogongrass is difficult to contain mainly because it is highly adaptive to harsher environments, establishing itself on soils low in fertility. The grass also can grow on sand and clay, and consumers of it are few. The grass tends to be averse to dense shade, but reports indicate more shade-tolerant strains are developing.\n\nThe legume vine \"Mucuna pruriens\" is used in the countries of Benin and Vietnam as a biological control for \"Imperata cylindrica\".\n\n\"Imperata cylindrica\" was first described by Linnaeus in 1759 under the basionym \"Lagurus cylindricus\". They were renamed by the French entomologist and botanist Palisot de Beauvois to the current accepted name of \"Imperata cylindrica\".\n\nSynonyms include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1879554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879554", "title": "Kunstkamera", "text": "Kunstkamera\n\nThe Kunstkamera (or Kunstkammer; ) is the first museum in Russia. Established by Peter the Great and completed in 1727, the Kunstkammer Building hosts the Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography (), with a collection of almost 2,000,000 items. It is located on the Universitetskaya Embankment in Saint Petersburg, facing the Winter Palace.\n\nThe Kunstkamera was established by Peter the Great on the Neva Riverfront. The turreted Petrine Baroque building of the Kunstkamera designed by Georg Johann Mattarnovy was completed by 1727. The foundation stone for the Kunstkammer was laid in 1719. The name \"Kunstkamera\" is derived from German \"Kunstkammer\", literally meaning \"Art chamber\".\n\nPeter's museum was a cabinet of curiosities dedicated to preserving \"natural and human curiosities and rarities\", a very typical type of collection in the period. The tsar's personal collection, originally stored in the Summer Palace, features a large assortment of human and animal fetuses with anatomical deficiencies, which Peter had seen in 1697 visiting Frederick Ruysch and Levinus Vincent. The underlying idea of their kunstkammers was to acquire full knowledge of the world. The Dutch word \"kunst-kamer\" seems to be introduced by the surgeon Stephanus Blankaart in 1680.\n\nThe Kunstkamera of Peter the Great is often seen as a haphazard collection of incoherent rarities, but it seems they were collected systematically subject to a well defined plan. Peter's main interest was in \"naturalia\", rather than the so-called \"artificialia\". Peter encouraged research of deformities, all along trying to debunk the superstitious fear of monsters. He issued an ukase ordering malformed, still-born infants to be sent from all over the country to the imperial collection. He subsequently had them put on show in the Kunstkamera as examples of accidents of nature.\n\nIn 1716 Peter established the mineral cabinet of Kunstkamera, depositing there a collection of 1195 minerals which he had bought from Gotvald, a Danzig doctor. The collection was enriched with Russian minerals. It was a predecessor of the Fersman Mineralogical Museum, now based in Moscow.\n\nMany items were bought in Amsterdam from pharmacologist Albertus Seba (1716) and anatomist Frederik Ruysch (1717) and formed the basis for the Academy of Sciences. The Kunstkamera was specially built to house these two extensive collections. A third acquisition came from Jacob de Wilde, a collector of gems and scientific instruments. Head-physician to the czar, Robert Erskine, and his secretary Johann Daniel Schumacher were responsible for the acquisition.\n\nIn the 1830s, the Kunstkamera collections were dispersed to newly established imperial museums, the most important being the Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography, established in 1879. It has a collection approaching 2,000,000 items and has been known as the Peter the Great Museum since 1903 (in order to distinguish the older museum from the Russian Museum of Ethnography).\n\nOriginally there were separate museums for anthropology and ethnography, but on 5 December 1878 it was decided to merge them into a single museum with Leopold Schrenk being appointed on 10 November 1879. It was not until 1887 that the museum was finally provided with its own exhibition premises attached to Kunstkamera in Tamozhennyi pereulok. On 23 September 1889, the first exhibition of the unified Museum was opened.\n\nOne of the most gruesome exhibits is the head of Willem Mons, brother of Anna Mons. In 1747 some objects were lost in a fire. The museum houses 78 watercolours by the Peruvian artist Pancho Fierro, the largest collection outside Peru. These were brought back by Schrenk following his visit there in 1854.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879557", "title": "Business letter", "text": "Business letter\n\nA business letter is a letter from one company to another, or between such organizations and their customers, clients, or other external parties. The overall style of letter depends on the relationship between the parties concerned. Business letters can have many types of content, for example to request direct information or action from another party, to order supplies from a supplier, to point out a mistake by the letter's recipient, to reply directly to a request, to apologize for a wrong, or to convey goodwill. A business letter is sometimes useful because it produces a permanent written record, and may be taken more seriously by the recipient than other forms of communication.\n\nSide, top and bottom margins should be 1 to 1 1/4 inches (the general default settings in programs such as Microsoft Word). One-page letters and memos should be vertically centered.\n\nNo special character or font formatting is used, except for the subject line, which is usually underlined.\n\nThe salutation or greeting is generally followed by a comma in British style, whereas in the United States a colon is used. The valediction or closing is followed by a comma.\n\nThe following is the general format, excluding indentation used in various formats:\nBusiness letters conform to generally one of six indentation formats: standard, open, block, semi-block, modified block, and modified semi-block. Put simply, \"semi-\" means that the first lines of paragraphs are indented; \"modified\" means that the sender's address, date, and closing are significantly indented.\n\nThe standard-format letter uses a colon after the salutation and a comma after the complimentary closing.\n\nThe open-format letter does not use punctuation after the salutation and no punctuation after the complimentary closing.\n\nIn a block-format letter, all text is left aligned and paragraphs are not indented.\n\nIn a modified-block format letter, all text is left aligned (except the author's address, date, and closing), paragraphs are not indented, and the author's address, date, and closing begin at the center point.\n\nSemi-block format is similar to the Modified block format, except that the first line of each paragraph is indented.\n\nIn a modified semi-block format letter, all text is left aligned (except the author's address, date, and closing), paragraphs are indented, and the author's address, date, and closing are usually indented in same position.\n"}
{"id": "1879562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879562", "title": "Will Truman", "text": "Will Truman\n\nWilliam Truman is a fictional character on the American sitcom \"Will & Grace\", portrayed by Eric McCormack. He is a lawyer who lives in the Upper West Side of New York City with his best friend, Grace Adler (Debra Messing). The series also portrays his relationship with the two other main characters, Karen Walker (Megan Mullally) and Jack McFarland (Sean Hayes).\n\nWill was born on October 23, 1966, in Bridgeport, Connecticut, to WASP parents Marilyn (Blythe Danner) and George Truman (Sydney Pollack). He has two brothers, Paul (Jon Tenney) and Sam (John Slattery in the first season, Steven Weber in the eighth). Will and Grace met in college and began dating, while Will was in denial about being gay. He came out in 1985, when — after being accused of living in denial by then-acquaintance Jack McFarland — he found himself attracted to a poster of Kevin Bacon. Will then realized that his relationship with Grace masked his true sexuality. He and Grace had a fight after Will came out to her — after proposing marriage to her in a desperate means of avoiding sex — and did not speak to each other for a year. Eventually, however, they reconciled and became inseparable best friends.\n\nAfter graduating from Columbia University and NYU School of Law, he started working for a successful law firm on track to make partner, but decided to quit and start his own practice. His practice folds in the show's second season after his main client Harlin Polk (Gary Grubbs) fires him, and he begins working for the law firm Doucette & Stein (Doucette played by Gregory Hines and Stein played by Gene Wilder), where he remains until the end of the seventh season, when he quits to do something more meaningful with his life.\n\nWill's next job is working for the mysterious Malcolm (Alec Baldwin), but that comes to an end when Malcolm reveals that he is an FBI agent. In the eighth season, Will takes a job at the Coalition of Justice, a business providing legal support for people who cannot afford it. He ultimately returns to Doucette & Stein, taking back his old job after being offered a partnership by his new boss at the firm, Margo (Lily Tomlin).\n\nIn the ninth season, after being promoted to senior partner, Will finally quits from the firm for good after realizing that this is not what he wants, and partners with Grace at Grace Adler Designs. In the tenth season, Will works as a part-time law professor at New York University, before eventually securing a full-time position midway through the season.\n\nIn season 11, Will decides to have a child. He hires a surrogate named Jenny (Demi Lovato) to carry his baby.\n\nWill and Grace have been best friends since college. They dated in 1985, before Will realized he was gay; after he came out to her, she was so hurt that they didn't speak for a year, but they eventually reconciled and became inseparable best friends. They move in together after Grace breaks up with her fiancé Danny and live together for a year. At the beginning of the second season, Grace moves out, albeit only across the hall. They are on-and-off roommates for the rest of the series. Their relationship is somewhat codependent, with each basing the future of every romantic relationship on whether the other approves. Other characters in the series, particularly Jack and Karen, often compare their relationship to a dysfunctional marriage.\n\nIn the fifth season, Will and Grace decide to have a baby together through in vitro fertilization. The process is repeatedly delayed through a series of mishaps, however, and Grace changes her mind after she begins dating Leo Markus (Harry Connick, Jr.), whom she marries later in the season. Will is hurt that she does not want to have a baby with him, and the ensuing argument nearly ruins their friendship. Eventually, however, they both realize that they just want the other to be happy, and reconcile.\n\nWill and Grace become roommates again in the sixth season when Grace admits her marriage to Leo is deteriorating, and Will supports her in the seventh season when she decides to get a divorce from Leo for cheating on her. In the eighth season, Grace finds out she is pregnant with Leo's child after a chance encounter with him, and she and Will plan on raising the child together. In the series finale, however, Grace has a nightmare that the two will become miserable and resentful from raising the child, and thus reunites with Leo when he proposes to her again. Will feels betrayed and ends their friendship. They do not see each other again for two years. By the time they reconcile, they both have their own families, and they find that they have no time for each other. They drift apart, until 16 years later, when they meet again while helping their children move into the same college dorm. Will's son, Ben (Ben Newmark), and Grace's daughter, Lila (Maria Thayer), begin dating and eventually marry, and Will and Grace once again become close friends.\n\nWhen the series was revived in 2017, the events of the original 2006 finale were retconned. While Grace and Leo did remarry, they never had any children and are going through a divorce. Grace moves back in with Will while her divorce is being finalized. When Grace gets pregnant in the 11th season, Will plans to raise their children with her, and they eventually buy a house together in Upstate New York. In the series finale, Grace goes into labor as they are packing up the apartment, and Will leaves with her, Jack, and Karen to go the hospital.\n\nWill and Jack meet in 1985, and Jack sees immediately that Will is gay. Jack helps Will come out and find the confidence to start dating men, and the two become best friends. That closeness does not prevent them from trading insults with each other at virtually every opportunity: Will makes fun of Jack's promiscuity, effeminate behavior and perpetual unemployment, while Jack mocks Will's stagnant love-life and enjoys calling Will \"fat and bald\" (which he clearly isn't). However, on several occasions Jack has confessed his love for Will, and it is occasionally suggested that Jack is attracted to him. Jack is often portrayed sponging off of Will, who pays half of his rent, gives him money to pay his back taxes, and foots the bill for clothes and meals.\n\nIn the beginning of the series, Will has an antagonistic relationship with Grace's assistant Karen Walker; she makes fun of his sexuality, while he mocks her alcoholism and vain, spoiled demeanor. They warm up to each other somewhat after Will becomes Karen's lawyer, although they continue to mock each other ruthlessly. Throughout the series' run, however, Karen has expressed concern for him and has even offered her friendship, albeit in her own sarcastic fashion. In one eighth-season episode, they get drunk together and bond over their troubles, while still bantering incessantly. She also comforts him at his father's funeral. In the series finale, Will and Karen are portrayed as still being friends 18 years in the future.\n\nWill has had romantic relationships with three women: Claire (Megyn Price), his high school girlfriend; Grace, whom he dated in college; and Diane (Mira Sorvino), with whom he had a one-night stand after he and Grace broke up. However, Diane is the only woman Will has ever had sex with.\n\nAt the beginning of the series, Will's most successful relationship was with his long-term boyfriend Michael (Chris Potter/Cheyenne Jackson), whom he was with from 1989 to November 1996. They briefly reconcile in 2018, but Will ends it once more after realizing that Michael is manipulative and controlling.\n\nIn the seventh season, he enters into a serious relationship with NYPD officer Vince D'Angelo (Bobby Cannavale). They break up after Vince, who loses two consecutive jobs because he can't resist trying on gloves while on duty, needs to take some time off for himself from their relationship. The two reunite during the funeral of Will's father in season eight and are shown to be raising a son together, Ben Truman, after the series' time-jump in the 2006 series finale. Nearly twenty years later, Ben, who was conceived through in vitro fertilization with a surrogate, goes off to college and meets Grace's daughter, Laila Markus, whom he would eventually marry.\n\nIn the 2017 revival of the series, the events of the original 2006 finale were retconned. In the new continuity, Will and Vince were together for five years. They never had children, as it was revealed that Ben and the series' original time-jump were figments of Karen's imagination. Vince visits Will and informs him that he is getting married and invites him to his wedding ceremony. Will tries to be happy for Vince, but is secretly insecure, not knowing why their relationship ended. When Will shows up at the wedding and his toasts at the reception end up being condescending, Vince reveals that they broke up because Will criticized everything he did and did not really appreciate him. Vince and Will then manage to patch things up somewhat, Will assuring Vince he is not making a mistake with his marriage and the two fondly reminiscing about the time they had together.\n\nIn the 10th season, Will begins dating McCoy Whitman (Matt Bomer), a famous news anchor. Although they have problems at first due to McCoy's insecurity and Will's fear of commitment, they eventually move in together, and Will finally proposes to him during Jack's wedding. In the season 11 premiere, they get into a discussion about having children and start making plans to adopt. However, several episodes later, McCoy changes his mind and admits to Will that he is not ready to have children and needs to break off their engagement if this becomes a problem for them. This prompts Will to break up with him so he can continue with his adoption plans. In the series finale, however, Will and McCoy get back together.\n\nWill comes from a wealthy, but dysfunctional, family of Connecticut WASPs. His relationship with his parents is complicated, particularly with his father, who is uncomfortable with his son's sexuality. In season eight, the two have a fight in which George confesses that he wishes Will wasn't gay. A few days later, having not spoken with Will since the fight, George dies of a heart attack. Will is devastated, but learns from the tragedy to be more open about his feelings, especially with people he loves.\n\nHe was once very close to his brother Sam, but they stopped speaking to each other following a fight over Sam's marriage (Will disliked Sam's wife). They do not see each other for five years after that, until, in the first-season episode \"Big Brother is Coming\", Grace engineers a chance meeting and forces them to talk out their problems. They have another fight in the following episode when Will finds out that Sam and Grace slept together, but they eventually repair their relationship.\n\nThe character met with a mixed reception from critics; some applauded him for not conforming to gay stereotypes, while others criticized him as a safe version of a gay man designed to be more palatable to heterosexual viewers. Nevertheless, McCormack won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series in 2001 for his performance.\n"}
{"id": "1879564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879564", "title": "Elektroboot", "text": "Elektroboot\n\nAn elektroboot (\"electric boat\" in German) was a submarine designed to operate entirely submerged, rather than as submersibles that could submerge as a temporary means to escape detection or launch an attack.\n\nEven before the second world war the rocket designer Hellmuth Walter had been advocating the use of hydrogen peroxide (known as \"perhydrol\") as a fuel. His engines were to become famous for their use in rocket-powered aircraft—notably the Me 163 Komet—but most of his early efforts were spent on systems for submarine propulsion.\n\nIn these cases the hydrogen peroxide was reduced chemically and the resulting gases used to spin a turbine at about 20,000 rpm, which was then geared to a propeller. This allowed the submarine to run underwater at all times, as there was no need for air to run the engines. The system also used up tremendous amounts of fuel, and any boat based on the design would either have to be huge or have limited range.\n\nThus the system saw only limited development even though a prototype was running in 1940. But when problems with the existing U-boat designs became evident in 1942, the work was stepped up. Eventually two engineers identified a solution to the problem.\n\nInstead of running the submarine entirely on the perhydrol, they used it just for bursts of speed. Most of the operations would then be carried out as with a normal boat, using a diesel engine to charge batteries. However while a conventional design would use the diesel as the primary engine and the batteries for short periods of underwater power, in this case the boat would run almost all the time on batteries in a low-speed cruise, turning on the perhydrol during attacks. The diesel was now dedicated entirely to charging the batteries, which it needed only three hours to do.\n\nThe perhydrol design suffered from several design flaws which were not fixed before the end of the war. As an intermediate solution, the perhydrol propulsion system was dropped in favour of a conventional diesel/electric solution, but retaining the streamlined hull-shape. The battery capacity was increased significantly along with fuel stores, and the boat was designed to operate underwater for long periods.\n\nThe result was the \"Elektroboot\" series, the Type XXI U-boat and a short range Type XXIII U-boat, finalized in January 1943 but with production only commencing in 1944-1945. When under water, the Type XXI managed to run at , which was faster than a Type VII running full out on the surface and almost as fast as the ships attacking her. After the war, tests carried out by the United States Navy on two captured Type XXIs showed they could outrun some ASW ships by going in the direction of heavy seas. (The US Navy's first nuclear-powered submarine, , used a modified Type XXI hull shape.) For most of the trip it ran silently underwater on batteries, surfacing only at night, and then only to snorkel depth. Weapons were likewise upgraded, with automated systems allowing the torpedo tubes to be reloaded in less than one-fourth of the time, firing homing torpedoes that would attack on their own. Even the interior was improved: it was much larger and fitted with showers and a meat refrigerator for long patrols.\n\nThe design was to be produced in two versions, primarily the Type XXI, and lesser numbers of the smaller Type XXIII. Both were much larger and more difficult to build than the existing designs, the Type XXI taking some 18 months. Mass production of the new type did not really get started until 1944 and subsequently only one combat patrol was carried out by a Type XXI before the war ended. This patrol is considered controversial. According to some sources, the \"U-2511\" did not make any contact with the enemy. Another version suggests that the U-boat did make a contact with of the Royal Navy, but did not fire as the captain had already received orders of surrender. A number of boats were commissioned into Allied navies after the war for research purposes, and one into the \"Bundesmarine\" of post-war Germany.\n"}
{"id": "1879567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879567", "title": "St Mary Aldermanbury", "text": "St Mary Aldermanbury\n\nSt. Mary Aldermanbury was a church in the City of London first mentioned in 1181 and destroyed by the Great Fire of London in 1666. Rebuilt in Portland stone by Christopher Wren, it was again gutted by the Blitz in 1940, leaving only the walls standing. These stones were transported to Fulton, Missouri in 1966, by the residents of that town, and rebuilt in the grounds of Westminster College as a memorial to Winston Churchill. Churchill had made his Sinews of Peace, \"Iron Curtain\" speech in the Westminster College Gymnasium in 1946.\n\nThe footprint of the church remains at the junction of London's Aldermanbury and Love Lane, planted with bushes and trees; to this footprint has been added a memorial plaque placed by Westminster College. The gardens also house a monument to Henry Condell and John Heminges, key figures in the production of the First Folio of William Shakespeare's plays and co-partners with him in the Globe Theatre. Condell and Heminges lived in the St. Mary Aldermanbury parish and were buried in its churchyard. This monument is topped with a bust of Shakespeare. The remains of the church were designated a Grade II listed building on 5 June 1972. The monuments are separately listed.\n\nIn the 1830s, the notable missionary William Jowett was a lecturer at the church.\n\nNotable burials in the church included the notorious \"hanging judge\" Judge Jeffreys. Of the interment of Judge Jeffreys, Leigh Hunt wrote: \"Jeffreys was taken on the twelfth of September, 1688. He was first interred privately in the Tower; but three years afterwards, when his memory was something blown over, his friends obtained permission, by a warrant of the queen's dated September 1692, to take his remains under their own care, and he was accordingly reinterred in a vault under the communion table of St. Mary, Aldermanbury, 2nd Nov. 1694. In 1810, during certain repairs, the coffin was uncovered for a time, and the public had a sight of the box containing the mortal remains of the feared and hated magistrate.\"\n\nAlso buried in the church were:\n\n\n\n3 January 1841 John Paton married Harriet Hawkins at St Mary the Virgin Aldermanbury, London, England. Harriet was 18 years old at the time and John was 21 at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879572", "title": "Boride", "text": "Boride\n\nA boride is a compound between boron and a less electronegative element, for example silicon boride (SiB and SiB). The borides are a very large group of compounds that are generally high melting and are covalent more than ionic in nature. Some borides exhibit very useful physical properties. The term boride is also loosely applied to compounds such as BAs (N.B. Arsenic has an electronegativity higher than boron) that is often referred to as icosahedral boride.\n\nThe borides can be classified loosely as boron rich or metal rich, for example the compound YB at one extreme through to NdFeB at the other. The generally accepted definition is that if the ratio of boron atoms to metal atoms is 4:1 or more, the compound is boron rich; if it is less, then it is metal rich.\n\nThe main group metals, lanthanides and actinides form a wide variety of boron-rich borides, with metal:boron ratios up to YB.\nThe properties of this group vary from one compound to the next, and include examples of compounds that are semi conductors, superconductors, diamagnetic, paramagnetic, ferromagnetic or anti-ferromagnetic. They are mostly stable and refractory.\n\nSome metallic dodecaborides contain boron icosahedra, others (for example yttrium, zirconium and uranium) have the boron atoms arranged in cuboctahedra.\n\nLaB is an inert refractory compound, used in hot cathodes because of its low work function which gives it a high rate of thermionic emission of electrons; YB crystals, grown by an indirect-heating floating zone method, are used as monochromators for low-energy synchrotron X-rays.\n\nThe transition metals tend to form metal rich borides. Metal-rich borides, as a group, are inert and have high melting temperature. Some are easily formed and this explains their use in making turbine blades, rocket nozzles, etc. Some examples include AlB and TiB. Recent investigations into this class of borides have revealed a wealth of interesting properties such as super conductivity at 39 K in MgB and the ultra-incompressibility of OsB and ReB.\n\nThe boron rich borides contain 3-dimensional frameworks of boron atoms that can include boron polyhedra.\nThe metal rich borides contain single boron atoms, B units, boron chains or boron sheets/layers.\n\nExamples of the different types of borides are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879587", "title": "Peter Barham", "text": "Peter Barham\n\nPeter Barham (born 1950) is emeritus professor of physics at the University of Bristol. He was visiting professor of Molecular Gastronomy at the University of Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nPeter Barham was born in 1950. He received his BSc from the University of Warwick, and his MSc and PhD from the University of Bristol.\n\nPeter Barham's research at the University of Bristol is concerned with polymer physics. He found ways to connect his research with his love of penguins, including the creation of silicon-based flipper bands which can be used for monitoring penguin populations. The silicone bands are designed to minimize the potential impact of carrying an external marking device and are currently in use on African penguins (\"Spheniscus demersus\") at Bristol Zoo, UK and in the wild in South Africa. More recently, together with colleagues in the Computer Science Department at the University of Bristol, he has developed a computer vision system for the automatic recognition of African penguins. This system in 2008 was undergoing trials in South Africa.\n\nBarham has contributed to the development of the new science of molecular gastronomy and has authored the book \"The Science of Cooking\" (). He has collaborated with a number of chefs including Heston Blumenthal, the chef/owner of The Fat Duck and also a proponent of molecular gastronomy. He is editor-in-chief of a new journal, \"Flavour\", which covers the science of molecular gastronomy.\n\nPeter Barham contributes to the public understanding of science by giving public lectures on molecular gastronomy and penguin conservation biology. He has addressed audiences in both the UK and further afield. Titles of previous public lectures include \"Ice cream delights\", \"Why do we like some foods and hate others?\", \"Kitchen disasters and how to fix them\" and \"A passion for penguins\". He has also written articles for several national newspapers, makes frequent television and radio appearances, and was scientific advisor to the Discovery Channel series \"Kitchen Chemistry\".\n\nHe won the Kelvin Medal and Prize in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1879592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879592", "title": "Charles Spence", "text": "Charles Spence\n\nProf. Charles Spence is an experimental psychologist at the University of Oxford. He is the head of the Crossmodal Research group which specializes in the research about the integration of information across different sensory modalities He also teaches Experimental Psychology to undergraduates at Somerville College.\nHe is currently a consultant for a number of multinational companies advising on various aspects of multisensory design. He has also conducted research on human-computer interaction issues on the Crew Work Station on the European Space Shuttle, and currently works on problems associated with the design of foods that maximally stimulate the senses, and with the effect of the indoor environment on mood, well-being, and performance. Charles has published more than 500 articles in top-flight scientific journals over the last decade. Charles has been awarded the 10th Experimental Psychology Society Prize, the British Psychology Society: Cognitive Section Award, the Paul Bertelson Award, recognizing him as the young European Cognitive Psychologist of the Year, and, most recently, the prestigious Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research Award from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation in Germany.\n\nOne of Spence's earliest and most notable experiments in the field of crossmodal food research was \"The Role of Auditory Cues in Modulating the Perceived Crispness and Staleness of Potato Chips,\" published in the \"Journal of Sensory Studies\" in 2004. The experiment was the first to successfully show that food could taste different depending on changes in sound. In the experiment, Spence demonstrated that the pitch and volume of the noise made when biting into Pringles chips affected people's perception of how fresh they were. Louder, higher-pitched crunch noises were rated by eaters to be 15% fresher on average than softer, lower-pitched crunch noises. \n\nSince then, his research has established that the sight, touch and sound of food can have large effects on its perceived taste. Other findings include that strawberry mousse is perceived as 10% sweeter when eaten from a white container over a black one, that coffee drunk from white mugs tastes almost two times more intense but only two-thirds as sweet as coffee drunk from a black mug, and that eaters perceive yogurt to be roughly 25% more filling when its plastic container weighs two and a half ounces more. \n"}
{"id": "1879594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879594", "title": "Tarryall Creek", "text": "Tarryall Creek\n\nTarryall Creek is a tributary of the South Platte River, approximately long, in Park County in central Colorado in the United States. It drains a rural portion of north and central South Park, an intermontane grassland in the Rocky Mountains southwest of Denver. It rises in the high Rockies in several forks along the Continental Divide in the Pike National Forest southwest of Boreas Pass. It descends to the southwest through a short canyon, emerging into South Park near Como, Colorado. It crosses U.S. Highway 285 east of Red Hill Pass northeast of Fairplay, the county seat of Park County, then meanders towards the southeast, joining the South Platte from the east in the southeastern corner of South Park.\n\nThe creek was one of the most active locations for the prospecting of gold during the Colorado Gold Rush in 1859. The \"Tarryall diggings\" and other nearby sites on the west side of South Park attracted thousands of prospectors over Ute Pass and Kenosha Pass, and the towns of Tarryall and Hamilton, both now completely vanished, were soon founded along the creek. There are no towns on the upper creek today.\n\nIn 1955, Rory Calhoun, later of the CBS western television series, \"The Texan\", and actress Julie Adams co-starred in the film \"The Looters\", the story of a plane crash in the Rocky Mountains. Part of the picture was filmed about Tarryall Creek. The advertising poster reads: \"Five desperate men ... and a girl who didn't care ... trapped on a mountain of gale-lashed rock!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1879595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879595", "title": "St Mary Aldermary", "text": "St Mary Aldermary\n\nThe Guild Church of St Mary Aldermary is an Anglican church located in Watling Street at the junction with Bow Lane, in the City of London. Of medieval origin, it was rebuilt from 1510. Badly damaged in the Great Fire of London in 1666, it was rebuilt once more, this time by Sir Christopher Wren; unlike the vast majority of Wren's City churches, St Mary Aldermary is in the Gothic style.\n\nThere has been a church on the site for over 900 years. Its name is usually taken to mean that it is the oldest of the City churches dedicated to the Virgin Mary. The patronage of the rectory of St Mary Aldermary belonged to the prior and chapter of Canterbury, but was transferred to the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1400.\n\nIn 1510, Sir Henry Keeble financed the building of a new church. The tower was still unfinished when he died in 1518. In 1629, two legacies enabled it to be completed, and the work, begun 120 years before, was finished within three years. Keble was buried in a vault beneath the floor of church, but his grave was not allowed to remain for long. Richard Newcourt recorded that Sir \"William Laxton\", who died in 1556, and Sir \"Tho. Lodge\", who died in 1583 (both which were \"Grocers\" and had been Mayors of this City), were buried in the Vault of this Sir \"Henry Keeble\", his bones unkindly cast out, and his Monument pull'd down, in place whereof, Monuments were set up of the others.\nJohn Stow mentions various dignitaries buried in the early church in his 1598 \"Survey of London\". They include Richard Chaucer, vintner, said by Stow to be the father of the poet Geoffrey Chaucer. John Milton married his third wife, Elizabeth Minshull, in the church in 1663. The parish registers date from 1558, and are now deposited in the Guildhall Library.\n\nSt Mary Aldermary was badly damaged in the Great Fire of London of 1666, although parts of its walls and tower survived. It was mostly rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren in a Gothic style. A legacy of £5,000 had been left by one Henry Rogers for the rebuilding of a church, and his widow agreed to use it to fund the reconstruction of St Mary's. According to some sources, she stipulated that the new church should be an exact imitation of the one largely destroyed.\n\nThe church as rebuilt has an aisled nave, six bays long, with a clerestory. There is a short chancel. The tower is attached to the south west corner of the building, and is entered through a western lobby. It is divided into storeys by string courses; the corners have octagonal turrets, terminating in what George Godwin called \"carved finials of impure design\". The nave and aisles are separated by arcades of clustered columns, supporting somewhat flattened Gothic arches. The ceilings are decorated with elaborate plaster fan vaulting. The east wall of the chancel is set askew in relation to the axis of the church.\n\nAccording to Nikolaus Pevsner, St Mary Aldemary is \"the chief surviving monument of the 17th-century Gothic revival in the City and – with Warwick – the most important late 17th-century Gothic church in England\".\n\nThe parish of the church of St Thomas the Apostle, destroyed in the Great Fire and not rebuilt, was united with that of St Mary's.\n\nIn 1781 a new organ was installed, built by George England and Hugh Russell.\n\nSt Mary Aldermary was damaged by German bombs in the London Blitz during the Second World War. All the windows were shattered and some plaster fell from the vaulting but the building itself remained intact.\n\nThe church has been repaired and restored many times over the years. In 1876–7 there were major changes to the interior: a new oak screen was inserted dividing the church from the lobby; the pews and stalls were replaced, the organ was moved from the western gallery to the chancel; the floor was repaved, new stained glass put into the windows, and a new reredos installed.\n\nThe latest interior restoration was finished in April 2005, with special attention paid to the plaster ceilings and the memorials on the north wall. A service was held on April 21, 2005 to celebrate the restoration, presided over by Richard Chartres, the Bishop of London. From 2005 until 2009, Father John Mothersole was the priest-in-charge and oversaw much of the restoration work at that time. He was succeeded in 2010 by Reverend Ian Mobsby, initially as curate and then as priest-in-charge, who continues in post at present.\n\nThe church was designated a Grade I listed building on 4 January 1950.\n\n\nIn January 2010, the Bishop and Archdeacon of London invited the Moot Community to make their home in St Mary Aldermary. Moot is a Church of England community in the new monastic tradition. Members annually commit to live by a \"rhythm of life\", which encompasses spiritual practices such as prayer, meditation and presence, and values such as acceptance, balance, creativity and hospitality. The community is currently in a process of discernment about whether it has a vocation as a Church of England Acknowledged Religious Community.\n\nDaily prayer, regular worship services, meditation and discussion groups go on in the church, and the community also hosts conferences and courses on subjects such as justice in economics, conflict resolution or mindfulness. The church hosts regular art exhibitions and installations, and retreat days. It is home to a café, Host, which sells fair trade coffee and goods, and there is a small market of food stalls outside the church on weekdays.\n\nSince 2007, the church has been the Regimental Church of the Royal Tank Regiment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879597", "title": "When the Eagle Flies", "text": "When the Eagle Flies\n\nWhen the Eagle Flies is the seventh studio album released by English rock band Traffic, in 1974. It was the final album released by the band until their 1994 reunion \"Far from Home\". The album featured Jim Capaldi on drums, keyboards and vocals; Rosko Gee on bass guitar; Steve Winwood on guitar, keyboards, and vocals; and Chris Wood on flute and saxophone. (Percussionist Rebop Kwaku Baah was fired prior to the album's completion, but his contributions are heard on two of its tracks.) The album uses a broader variety of keyboard instruments than previous Traffic albums, adding Moog to their repertoire.\n\n\"When the Eagle Flies\" was the band's fourth consecutive studio album to reach the American Top Ten and have gold album status. It was far less successful in the United Kingdom, where it entered the charts at number 31 only to drop off the following week. Traffic toured to support the release, but they disbanded in the middle of the tour in 1974.\n\nThe Chris Wood composition \"Moonchild Vulcan\" was recorded for the album, but ultimately left off in favour of \"Memories of a Rock N' Rolla\". The song was played on the supporting tour for the album, however, and a live recording by Traffic was later released on the posthumous Chris Wood CD \"Vulcan\", released in 2008. \n\n\"Rolling Stone\" called the album uneven, saying that its bleak tone works superbly on \"Graveyard People\" and \"Walking in the Wind\", but elsewhere it often \"turns anemic as a result of either a poorly conceived arrangement or inadequate production.\" However, they regarded the use of tighter and more concise songs as a promising change in direction for the band, and recommended the album based on the renewed strength of Winwood/Capaldi's songwriting and Winwood's work with the keyboards. Allmusic's retrospective review asserted the opposite: that the album indulged in long and meandering instrumentation more than any other work by Traffic, with even the vocals doing no more than \"improvising his melodies over the music, paying little heed to the meaning of the words\".\n\nProduction notes:\n"}
{"id": "1879605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879605", "title": "Tarryall, Colorado", "text": "Tarryall, Colorado\n\nTarryall is an unincorporated town of cabins and old buildings in eastern Park County, Colorado, United States. The town is located on Tarryall Creek in the eastern edge of the South Park, between Lake George and Jefferson.\n\nThe town was founded in 1896 as Puma City, in response to mineral discoveries in the area. Within its first year, it reach a peak population of about a thousand residents. The Tarryall Post Office soon opened to serve the town. The population dwindled as the mineral discoveries proved to be much smaller than first thought. In the 1900s, the town took the name of its post office, Tarryall. Only a handful of residents remain.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879610", "title": "Charles Graddick", "text": "Charles Graddick\n\nCharles Allen Graddick Sr. (born December 10, 1944 in Mobile), was the 42nd Attorney General of Alabama from 1979-1987. He later served as a Judge of the 13th Judicial Circuit Court of the U.S. state of Alabama.\n\nGraddick graduated in 1963 from the all-male University Military School in Mobile. The institution was the forerunner of UMS-Wright Preparatory School. In 1967, he received his undergraduate degree from the University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa, where he was a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity. In 1970, Graddick obtained his Juris Doctor from the Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham, having been chosen the class president. In 1975, at the age of twenty-eight, he was elected District Attorney of Mobile County. \n\nGraddick, who served as Alabama’s Attorney General from 1979 to 1987, has always been a proponent of the tough on crime mindset and decades to life sentencing policies that have made Alabama's prison system one of the worst human right violators in the US. He wrote Alabama’s infamous habitual offender law, which punishes people with a life sentence for drug and property crimes. He justified it by referring to all offenders as “career criminals”. However, those “career criminals” were mostly poor and Afro-american young males, who were sentenced in their late teens or early twenties to a mandatory life without parole for crimes like robbery, theft and burglary. That population has spent decades warehoused in Alabama's notorious and overcrowded prisons. In 2019, the DOJ released a scathing report, citing overcrowding, widespread violence and corruption in Alabama’s prisons, and gave leaders a deadline to implement changes. \n\nGraddick made a career using inflammatory rhetoric about people in the criminal justice system. He infamously promised to “fry them until their eyeballs pop out and smoke comes out of their ears.” He maintains a zealous support for executions, despite known wrongful convictions and an appalling racial disparity on Alabama’s death row.\n\nAs Attorney General, he blocked efforts to reduce the prison population and fought against rehabilitative programs. When he ran unsuccessfully for Governor, he promised to make sure Alabama prisons remained brutal for people serving time.\n\n“The next Governor needs to make sure our prisons look more like prisons and less like welcome centers,” he told a crowd of supporters.\n\nAfter almost 20 years in the private practice of law, he was appointed as circuit judge in 2004 and was elected twice thereafter without opposition. He Served as Presiding Judge for 10 years.After retirement from the State Court Bench, Judge Graddick was appointed Senior Judicial Advisor to the Mayor of Mobile and Director of Courts. \nIn 1966, Graddick married the former Corinne Whiting. The couple has three children, Charles Allen Jr., Herndon Whiting, and Corinne and six grandchildren.\n\nThe 1986 Alabama Democratic primary for governor featured Attorney General Graddick in a heated runoff with then Lieutenant Governor Bill Baxley. Graddick won by a almost ten thousand votes, but the state Democratic party ruled that he had violated a party rule by encouraging Republicans to vote in the Democratic primary. The court later instructed the Democratic Party either to hold another election or determine whether the crossover votes affected the outcome of the election. After a Party meeting the Party nominated Baxley.\n\nLike Texas, Georgia, and Arkansas, Alabama does not register voters by party. At that time, the Democratic party had never enforced such a rule in any election because Alabama was a one-party state. Many Alabama voters opposed the democratic party hierarchy action and therefore voted in protest against Baxley and for H. Guy Hunt, the Republican nominee. Though he was previously considered a token candidate, Hunt won easily and became the first Alabama Republican governor since Reconstruction.\n\nHunt's election surprised many, since no living person had witnessed a Republican winning the election for governor of Alabama. The media had paid little attention to the Republican gubernatorial primaries, fully expecting that the GOP nominee would be the next loser in the general election.\n\nAfter the campaign for governor in 1986, Graddick established a statewide law practice. At the request of Governor Hunt in 1991 filled an unexpired one year term as district attorney for Montgomery County. He returned to private practice in 1992. Subsequently, Republican Governor Bob Riley appointed Graddick to fill the post left vacant when Judge William McDermott of the 13th Judicial Circuit Court died in office in May 2004. Graddick was elected in January 2005 to serve a six-year term in the same post. He was selected by his fellow circuit judges to serve as the presiding judge of the 13th Judicial Circuit until his retirement in 2017.\n\nIn 2011, Graddick declared his candidacy for Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, in the Republican primary held on March 13, 2012. Graddick opposed current chief justice, Charles \"Chuck\" Malone, and former Chief Justice Roy Moore. Both Graddick and Malone had lobbied Governor Robert J. Bentley for his appointment to replace then Chief Justice Sue Bell Cobb, who stepped down before her term expired.\n\nRoy Moore held the chief justiceship from 2001 to 2003, when he was removed from office over the Ten Commandments dispute which received national attention. In a bid to return to his former position, in spite of all the pre-election day polls showing Graddick leading, Moore won nearly 51 percent of the ballots in the 2012 primary, having defeated both Malone and Graddick. Moore faced the Democrat Harry Lyon in the general election scheduled for November 6, 2012, only to be kicked off the ballot by the Democratic Party to be replaced by their hand-picked nominee, Robert Vance. Moore won the seat in the general election.\n"}
{"id": "1879615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879615", "title": "Flexi disc", "text": "Flexi disc\n\nThe flexi disc (also known as a phonosheet, Sonosheet or Soundsheet, a trademark) is a phonograph record made of a thin, flexible vinyl sheet with a molded-in spiral stylus groove, and is designed to be playable on a normal phonograph turntable. Flexible records were commercially introduced as the Eva-tone Soundsheet in 1962, and were very popular among children and teenagers and mass-produced by the state publisher in the Soviet government.\n\nBefore the advent of the compact disc, flexi discs were sometimes used as a means to include sound with printed material such as magazines and music instruction books. A flexi disc could be moulded with speech or music and bound into the text with a perforated seam, at very little cost and without any requirement for a hard binding. One problem with using the thinner vinyl was that the stylus's weight, combined with the flexi disc's low mass, would sometimes cause the disc to stop spinning on the turntable and become held in place by the stylus. For this reason, most flexi discs had a spot on the face of the disc for a coin, or other small, flat, weighted object to increase the friction with the turntable surface and enforce consistent rotation. If the turntable's surface is not completely flat, it is recommended that the flexi disc be placed on top of a full sized record.\n\nIn Japan, starting in the early 1960s, Asahi Sonorama published the monthly \"Asahi Sonorama\" magazine which included an inserted flexi disc (\"Sonosheet\").\n\nEvery year between 1963 and 1969, The Beatles made a special Christmas recording which was made into a flexi disc and sent to members of their fan club. While the earlier discs largely contained 'thank you' messages to their fans, the later Christmas flexis were used as an outlet for the Beatles to explore more experimental areas; the 1967 disc, for example, became a pastiche of a BBC Radio show and even included a specially recorded song entitled \"Christmas Time (Is Here Again).\"\n\nIn 1964, the National Geographic Society released \"Song and Garden Birds of North America\" which included a 12-sided clear flexidisk, bound alternating with pages giving the titles and birds on the recordings. The work was done by Arthur A. Allen and Peter Paul Kellogg of the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology.\n\nThe August 1965 issue of \"National Geographic Magazine\" included a soundsheet of the funeral of Sir Winston Churchill narrated by David Brinkley. The recording has the sounds of the funeral procession to St. Paul's, a hymn sung by the leaders of the world, and an excerpt of the funeral sermon. Excerpts from various recordings of Churchill's speeches are included. The recording ends with bagpipes accompanying Churchill's coffin to the funeral barge on the Thames, as the public phase of the funeral ends.\n\nDuring the 1970s, \"MAD\" magazine included Soundsheets in several special editions. One was a dramatization of \"Gall in the Family Fare\", its parody of \"All in the Family,\" packaged with \"MAD Super Special \" #11 (1973). The Summer 1980 edition of \"MAD Super Special\" (published in 1979) featured \"It's a Super-Spectacular Day\", a song with eight different versions pressed into eight concentric grooves; which version was played depended on where the needle was dropped onto the disc. Another issue included \"It's a Gas\", a song whose lyrics were belches. There was also a \"Mad Disco\" special issue containing a Soundsheet.\n\nABBA/Live 77 was a special single-sided promo gold flexi disc given as a bonus to children who sold magazines and books at Christmas for Jultidningsförlaget, a publishing company using door sales as their main distribution channel. The disc contained excerpts from the Swedish group's recent concert appearance in Australia.\n\nA two-sided flexible sheet record of the songs of humpback whales (produced by Roger Payne) was included with the January 1979 issue of \"National Geographic Magazine\". With a production order of 10,500,000 copies, it became the largest single press run of any record at the time.\n\nComputer magazines began to provide software in audio form \"Vinyl Data\" on flexi discs from June 1979 until 1986.\n\nWhile flexi-discs were usually just used as occasional giveaways, from 1980 to 1982, \"Flexipop\" made a speciality of giving away such a disc with each edition. Compact discs and the internet have rendered flexi discs largely obsolete, but gimmick discs are still produced occasionally: Amelia’s Magazine included a one-sided Libertines flexi of \"What Katie Did\".\n\nAmerican manufacturer Eva-Tone, believed to be one of the last manufacturers of flexi discs, stopped production of the product in August 2000.\n\nAs of December 2010, Pirates Press, an independent record manufacturing company based in San Francisco, California, USA, has started production of flexi discs of various sizes and color.\n\nIn November 2010 extreme metal magazine \"Decibel\" began releasing flexi discs with each issue, starting with the January 2011 issue. The content on the disc features \"100 percent exclusive songs\" from artists that have been previously featured in the publication.\n\nIn October 2011, the Los Angeles-based record company, Side One Dummy Records, teamed up with Alternative Press to offer a Title Fight flexi disc (containing 2 previously unreleased B-Sides) along with a year of AP subscription as a limited edition offer. Due to manufacturing delays the discs arrived packaged with the November issue of AP magazine in mid December.\n\nOn April 2, 2012, Third Man Records released 1000 flexi discs tied to blue helium balloons into the air in Nashville, Tennessee. The discs contained the first release of \"Freedom At 21\", a track on Jack White's debut solo album, \"Blunderbuss\". It is estimated that fewer than 100 of the discs will ever be found and they will be a valuable collector's item for many years.\n\nOn April 20, 2012, Domino Recording Company released a zine exclusively for Record Store Day that included five individual, multi-colored flexi-discs, each containing a song by Dirty Projectors, Real Estate, Cass McCombs, John Maus, and Villagers. The Dirty Projectors disc was previewed on April 19 by frontman Dave Longstreth via a YouTube video of him playing the record on a turntable.\n\nIn 2012 Rookie online magazine released its first hardcopy edition, Rookie Yearbook One, which contained a red flexi disc with two songs written specifically for the site: \"I Don't Care\" by Dum Dum Girls and \"Rookie\" by Supercute!.\n\nIn the summer 2013 issue of German fanzine PUNKROCK!, the punk rock band Riots, based in Oslo, Norway, gave away a free 2-track exclusive flexi disc to the 200 odd subscribers of the fanzine. This flexi featured 2 tracks - Riots and We're All Slaves. This was pressed by Pirates Press out of the USA.\n\nShortly before the release of the 2014 Foo Fighters album \"Sonic Highways\" some of the pre-orders came with a cover of Two Headed Dog on Flexi-Disk\n\nIn the summer 2015, PizzaDischi, an independent record manufacturing company based in Italy, has started production of flexi discs too, in collaboration with the European Slimer Records independent label run by Panda Kid members, dedicated to limited and rare edition of worldwide artists.\n\nFlexi discs were mass-produced from 1964 to 1991 by the Soviet government as inserts in the popular\n\"Krugozor\" magazine for teens. The appearance of the Soviet flexi disc was always the same, vivid blue, and the discs are familiar to virtually anyone who grew up in the Soviet Union and even the post-Soviet era. In 1969 in addition to the successful audio-magazine \"Krugozor\", the government also launched the audio-magazine for children \"Kolobok\", which also consisted of flexi disks.\n\nBecause of a shortage of vinyl recording material (and official censorship of some Western music) during the Soviet era, bootleg recordings known as \"Ribs\", \"Bones\" or \"roentgenizdat\" were produced on discarded medical X-ray prints. The musician Stephen Coates of UK band The Real Tuesday Weld has created the X-Ray Audio Project devoted to these.\n\n\"Flexi Disc\" is also the title of a spoken-word track recorded by electronic band The Human League on a flexi disc which accompanied their 12\" single \"The Dignity of Labour\" in 1978. Re-released as a bonus track on their album \"Reproduction\", the song is a discussion between the band members concerning the advantages and disadvantages of the flexi disc format and the possibility of including one with the album to provide commentary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879641", "title": "Amazing Nurse Nanako", "text": "Amazing Nurse Nanako\n\nThe series details the life and history of Nanako Shichigusa, a 16-year-old who works as a maid (not nurse as the title might imply) in the hospital of Dr. Kyogi Ogami, the male lead. Nanako is a classic ditzy slapstick protagonist who tends to accidentally break things and do everything wrong. Ogami treats her frequently in a cruel or heartless manner—threatening her, yelling at her and even subjecting her to physical abuse—yet at the climax of every episode he comes through to rescue her from whatever predicament she got herself into. Much of the series revolves around the relationship between Nanako and Ogami—his mean veneer, her faith in him, and how he alternates between the evil mad scientist archetype and the knight in shining armor archetype.\n\nAs the series progresses we are gradually revealed the history between Nanako and Ogami's family and given a reason why the two are so tightly knit together, as well as why the title refers to Nanako as a \"nurse\". A minor supporting cast is introduced, though Nanako and Ogami are clearly the leads. The plot incorporates the American military, the Catholic Church and outlandish science fiction experiments, with these elements progressed mostly in the lead episode and the last two episodes. The middle episodes 2-4 feature mostly unrelated one-shot plots, though minor progress is made in each episode regarding the history between Nanako and Ogami's family.\n\nIn the beginning, Nanako was the subject of a cyborg experiment conducted by Dr. Ogami for one of his most powerful robots. Through rigorous training, Dr. Ogami trained Nanako to withstand the pain. However, he made her too strong, and the plan ultimately failed. However, recent developments between the Pentagon and the Vatican to resurrect Jesus for the Second Coming have landed Nanako as the subject of an operation in which she will give birth to the new Jesus.\n\nThroughout the series, we learn that Nanako is, in fact, the third clone in a series of clones cloned from the original Nanako. The original died from a mysterious illness, and an experiment to clone her was successful. However, around the age of 20, each Nanako clone dies of the same mysterious illness that claimed the life of the first Nanako. It has been Dr. Ogami's quest to cure the \"Nanako illness\" ever since he promised the second clone that he would heal her before she died when he was young. Mia Ortiz anime and manga to of here in 27th\n\nNanako is doing her usual chore of cooking, but the fish she cooks burns and, before that, breaks a dozen plates that were handed down through the Ogami family, which later makes Dr. Ogami angry at her. This is typical of Dr. Ogami, as Nanako does get into a lot of trouble. She gets mixed up in a fight between Kuron and Komanechi, two old people who reside in the hospital.\n\nAfter running out for a few groceries, she returns to meet Dr. Ogami and the Army. They are conducting an experiment, but she is doing her usual exercises that Dr. Ogami has planned for her. After she finishes, she returns to the experiment, just as it goes haywire. The experiment kills a few officers, and Nanako is sucked into the goo-like monster. She has also caught a cold, so the flu virus helps to weaken the monster as she continuously sneezes. Dr. Ogami rescues Nanako and defeats the monster. The monster freezes and falls apart, ending the disaster.\n\nNanako runs through tough training exercises, such as standing under a cold waterfall with nothing but a bikini on, with the help of Genki. Nanako, however, believes she is on vacation. While standing by the fire at night, Nanako cooks fishes. However, when she gives Dr. Ogami one, he gets angry because she forgot to buy daikon radish, which helps the protein in fish digest properly. Nanako gets frustrated, and runs away.\n\nWhile in the woods, she encounters a giant bear after trying to light a fire, and Dr. Ogami reminisces about past Nanakos in the trailer. Nanako runs from the bear in fear as it chases her. Dr. Ogami realizes she is missing and then begins to read a signal coming from a stuffed animal he had given to her. He locates her and saves her from plunging off a cliff. Genki stops the bear from mauling her to death. Nanako, while hanging from Dr. Ogami's hand, which has a hold of her foot, begs for forgiveness, but Dr. Ogami drops her into the river below as punishment. However, Nanako catches a cold and relaxes naked in a hot tub above a fire Kuron built. Dr. Ogami appears with the stuffed animal that had thought by Nanako to have been dropped off the cliff when she was rescued, but, not only is it a tracking device, it is also a recorder. It plays back something Nanako had said about Dr. Ogami behind his back. Dr. Ogami gets angry and Nanako freaks, jumping out of the tub naked and running for her life. Dr. Ogami chases after her with a beating stick experiment.\n\nDr. Ogami now has to deal with a patient who has a violent record. He is trying to solve a murder mystery for the police. He performs tests on him, while Kaoru Satsuki teases him. This causes him to become nervous. He also constantly stares as Nanako, as if she is of importance to him. He turns into a \"Hyde\" monster and wreaks havoc on the Ogami Hospital.\n\nMany attempts of falsely torturing Nanako, including stripped her down to only her panties and being tortured by Kuron, hanging her above a boiling pot of goo, topless with only nipple shields to cover her big breasts in a torture ritual, and a near-lesbian scene where Satsuki tries to \"make her into a real woman,\" all fail. They attempt to shoot tranquilizers into the monster to stop it, but all fail, and, in turn, make everyone else except Dr. Ogami go to sleep. While cornered outside in the rain by the monster, Nanako is saved by Dr. Ogami, who manages to put it to sleep.\n\nThe next day, Nanako goes over to Satsuki's room, hoping to ask her about \"making her a real woman\", but not the way Nanako thought. However, Nanako caught Satsuki at a bad moment... without her makeup on!\n\nIn her sleep, Nanako is fitted with a special suit which enables her to be a war machine. She can fly, shoot rockets, and fire bullets with the suit. She awakes to find herself in an exhibit showcasing the suit she is wearing.\n\nDuring her display, in which only Satsuki can control, she is stopped by a robot named Griffith, which also destroys tanks and people in the process. Inside, a man named Alan Mizuki claims she is a cyborg named Nana-Go, which was shown to him by Dr. Ogami in their early days in college together. The once-friend of Dr. Ogami has now become his biggest rival, after sabotaging an attempt to revive one of his loves, Jamie. Nanako pleads that she is not a cyborg, but a human. Mizuki refuses to listen, and still believes she is a cyborg, because she cannot take the suit off.\n\nGriffith is then released on her in combat, and eventually destroys half of the hospital. However, Mizuki drops the remote that controls Griffith, and that actives a mode which attacks anything that moves. While frozen, they try to figure out a way to retrieve the remote. When a rock falls from the ceiling, Griffith attacks it, giving them time to dash to the remote. Yet, their plans are foiled when a rock falls upon the remote and Griffith destroys it, destroying the remote also. It goes haywire and fires at everything in sight. Nanako is caught in the middle, and is forced to defeat the robot. She picks the robot up and throws it into the distance, defeating it, but also setting off a self-destruct sequence. It explodes, destroying Ogami Hospital.\n\nOutside, in plain view of the wreckage, Nanako soon realizes her suit is running low on battery power. The suit soon falls apart, revealing her completely naked to Mizuki, proving to him she is not a cyborg. She realizes what happened and covers herself. Mizuki is then carried away by authorities, but Jamie rescues him on the way to jail by self-destructing herself. At the end, Dr. Ogami returns from seeing his father to see that the hospital is in ruins.\n\nAnother attempt to revive Jesus fails. Nanako and Dr. Ogami steal a plane, but Nanako, once again, believes she is going on vacation. The operation to begin the revival of the second Jesus is beginning, and she is on her way there. The government is about to find out Nanako's secret, and almost find out by going to what remains of the hospital. However, they are saved by a task force. The people who lived in the hospital are the ones who figures out that Nanako is a clone.\n\nWhile in the air, a \"hijacker\" tries to stop them, but fails, mostly because the plane is attacked by fighter jets. In the process, an engine aboard the plane explodes after being hit from one of the jets, making flight almost impossible. So, Nanako is ordered to remove all that she can from within the plane. It fails, and she also, in vain, removes a few articles of her clothing to also help. Yet, Dr. Ogami and Nanako exit the plane, and at the very end, Nanako's bra falls off and into the air.\n\nNanako and Dr. Ogami float to safety, and so begins the operation. They strip Nanako down and tie her up to begin the procedure. Dr. Ogami participates, but is really there to sabotage the entire experiment (not to mention cure Nanako). Before putting her under, Dr. Ogami tells Nanako that he called the Army to rescue them.\n\nAfter the first step in the experiment is completed, the Army and Air Force arrives to destroy the area, and the experiment is a complete failure. Another monster goes berzerk and starts killing people left and right, including the head of the experiment, Griffin. Saint, however, escapes with the information about the experiment, hoping to sell it to the highest bidder. Dr. Ogami and Nanako escape into a river and wind up near a waterfall. Dr. Ogami dreams of the past Nanako and himself falling in love, and the past Nanako encourages him. Nanako and Dr. Ogami are eventually saved by the rest of the gang.\n\nHowever, after returning to the base, it is revealed that Dr. Ogami was to be assigned to SkyLab 5, the newest orbital space station. Realizing that the assignment was really a means to hide him, Dr. Ogami refuses, stating that he will not work anywhere that doesn't have fish. After the Army offers to send up as much fish as he wants, Dr. Ogami adds that he prefers grated radish on his fish. After the Army agreed to this request, Dr. Ogami finally stipulated that only one person is allowed to grill the fish and grate the radish... Nanako! When she realized what Dr. Ogami meant, Nanako groaned in discouragement.\n\nOn Anime News Network, Mike Crandol gave it an overall grade of D+.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879645", "title": "Valerie Chow", "text": "Valerie Chow\n\nValerie Chow (born 16 December 1970) is a former Hong Kong actress, fashion publicist and entrepreneur.\n\nShe has starred in numerous films and several television series, most memorably in Wong Kar-wai's internationally acclaimed 1994 feature, \"Chungking Express\", which earned her a nomination for Best Supporting Actress at the 14th Hong Kong Film Awards. A former Miss Hong Kong runner-up (1991), she is also the first Chinese model to be signed by US cosmetics company Revlon in 1998.\n\nSince 2003, she has worked primarily as a fashion publicist and in 2010, opened Mama Kid, a children's designer concept store in Hong Kong.\n\nIn 2018, she made a surprising return to acting, starring in the film, \"Prison Architect\", by renowned Chinese visual artist Cao Fei. The film was commissioned by Tai Kwun, the Centre for Heritage and Arts in Hong Kong, and screened at the 69th Berlin International Film Festival as part of their Forum Expanded programme. \n\nChow was born and raised in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, the only child to an upper-middle-class family. Her father was a property developer whom she describes as \"tough, direct, and self-disciplined.\" Chow had spent some of her teens during the mid-80s in Hong Kong where she attended Marymount Secondary School and completed Form-5. She described these years as having been \"difficult\" and \"stressful,\" and had initially returned to Vancouver before moving to Hong Kong a second time in the summer of 1991. It was then that she joined the 1991 Miss Hong Kong Pageant, in which she placed first runner-up, and which would become her introduction into the entertainment industry. Following a brief study break where she studied Law at the University of Hong Kong, Chow began her career in late 1992 as a television presenter for the lifestyle programme, \"Eye on Hong Kong\" on TVB Pearl. Her first film credit was a cameo in Peter Chan's \"He Ain't Heavy, He's My Father,\" released in December 1993.\n\nAs a newcomer, she drew some controversy for her role in the Category-III box office hit \"Twenty Something\", which dealt with sexually explicit themes considered shocking for a former beauty queen. Her following role in Wong Kar-Wai's widely acclaimed \"Chungking Express\" also made an impression, which garnered her a Hong Kong Film Award nomination. Her career however, took a sharp turn when she played the much maligned role of a \"homewrecker\" in a hugely popular television series. The image of seductress came to be closely associated with Chow, perhaps further fuelled by earlier rumours of her alleged affair with Tony Leung Chiu Wai (then already dating long-time partner Carina Lau), whose music videos and album cover she also featured in. In the subsequent period between 1995–97, she was cast in a string of B-movies, usually in the role of a villain. The more notable of these were that of the female terrorist in Jing Wong's \"High Risk\", a moderately successful box-office hit, and a guest appearance in Tsui Hark's acclaimed wu-xia feature \"The Blade\".\n\nIn late 1996, she left the Hong Kong film industry to pursue a career in Hollywood, adopting a more racially ambiguous screen name, Rachel Shane. She was signed to the William Morris Agency and had a small part in the film \"Phantoms\" which starred Peter O'Toole and Ben Affleck. More substantially, she became the first Chinese spokesmodel for Revlon US in 1998, appearing in national print and tv ad campaigns alongside Halle Berry, Salma Hayek, and Melanie Griffith. She is to be followed by Lucy Liu.\n\nChow eventually returned to Hong Kong in 2000, where she joined the media communications department at Lane Crawford, although continued to act part-time. The following year saw her return to the small screen in the ATV series, \"Healing Hearts\", in which she played the role of a lawyer. The role briefly revived her career, leading to several magazine covers and an ad campaign with Neutrogena Hong Kong. She also starred alongside Leslie Cheung in \"Inner Senses\" (2002), which was to be Cheung's last film.\n\nSince 2003, Chow has, for the most part, left the entertainment industry. For the next seven years, she would continue to work as publicist for the Pedder Group, the shoes and accessories division of Lane Crawford. Looking back on her career in 2010, Chow remarks: \"I worked for the group for 10 years. I rounded off this experience as vice-president, marketing. I met larger-than-life individuals who left an impression. Highlights included working with [American filmmaker] David Lynch and [footwear designer] Christian Louboutin at Cafe de Flore, in Paris, and producing the first Guy Bourdin exhibition in Hong Kong. I am also proud of the fact that I'm well known in the fashion industry for producing some of the best store window displays in Central. I think more people have seen or admired my window displays than have watched my films.\" Chow's most recent acting credit was a TV series filmed in mid-2004, but never aired until December 2010, more than six years after filming completed. In September 2010, Chow opened Mama Kid, a children's clothing boutique in Hong Kong's Central District to great success, which has since relocated to Stanley.\n\nChow married Darryl Goveas, a Hong Kong-based Belgian-Indian interior designer in 2005, with whom she has a daughter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879654", "title": "Calgary Bowness", "text": "Calgary Bowness\n\nCalgary Bowness is a defunct provincial electoral district in Alberta Canada. The district was named after the community of Bowness, and during its time encompassed the Northwestern part of the city. The riding was created in 1959. The riding was split into Calgary-Bow and Calgary-Foothills in 1971.\n\nThe Alberta government decided to return to using the first past the post system of voting from Single Transferable Vote for the 1959 general election. The province redistributed the Calgary and Edmonton super riding's and standardized the voting system across the province into single member districts.\n\nCalgary Bowness was one of the six electoral districts created from the Calgary super riding that year. The others were Calgary Glenmore, Calgary Centre, Calgary West, Calgary North, Calgary North East, Calgary South East.\n\nThe district was first won easily by former Social Credit federal Member of Parliament Charles Johnston in 1959. He was re-elected for his second term in 1963 defeating future Calgary city Alderman Peter Petrasuk in a hotly contested race.\n\nThe last of the three elections held in the electoral district would see Len Werry pick up the district for the Progressive Conservatives in the 1967 election. Johnston went down to defeat by less than 400 votes. Johnston retired. He did not return to politics before his death in 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879660", "title": "Pair (parliamentary convention)", "text": "Pair (parliamentary convention)\n\nIn parliamentary practice, pairing is an informal arrangement between the government and opposition parties whereby a member of a legislative body agrees or is designated by the party whip to be absent from the chamber or abstain from voting while a member of the other party needs to be absent from the chamber due to other commitments, illness, travel problems, etc.\n\nThe member that needs to be absent from their chamber would normally consult with his or her party whip, who would arrange a pair with his counterpart in the other major party, who as a matter of courtesy would normally arrange for one of its members to act as the pair. A pairing would usually not apply for critical votes, such as no-confidence votes.\n\nThe member abstaining from voting is referred to as a pair. In the United States, pairing is an informal arrangement between members and the pairs are called live pairs. An alternative method of maintaining the relative voting positions of parties in a legislative body is proxy voting, which is not commonly used, but is used, for example, in New Zealand.\n\nIn Australia, following the 2010 federal election, the Gillard Government formed a minority government with the support of a number of votes from minor parties and independents, and the Opposition refused to grant automatic pairing, leading to some embarrassment and reversals for the Opposition when, for example, a pair was initially not given for a member to care for her sick baby or to attend at the birth of his baby.\n\nA pair has also been granted to minor party legislators. Greens Senator Scott Ludlam, for example, was given a government pair when absent from the Senate in late 2016 because of mental health issues.\n\nThe pairing system was abused in Victoria in March 2018 when the Labor Government granted pairs to two Opposition MPs in the upper house, but who then unexpectedly returned to the chamber, while the government pairs were absent, to vote down an important government bill.\n\nThe 1926 Canadian election was called when Arthur Meighen's three-day-old Conservative government was defeated 96–95 on a motion of confidence, when an opposition MP who was paired with an absent Tory voted against the government, later stating that he had forgotten that he was a pair.\nIn 2005, Paul Martin's Liberal government faced a confidence vote. NDP MP Ed Broadbent, who planned to vote in support of the government, abstained from voting so that independent MP Chuck Cadman, who planned to vote against the government but was sick, could stay at home. The Liberals narrowly won the vote, with the Speaker breaking the tie.\n\nPairing in the Swedish Riksdag is a voluntary agreement run by appointed members of most of the represented political parties, called \"Kvittningspersoner.\" The system is intended to enable MPs to abstain from votes for electorate events, study trips etc, without affecting the likely outcome of the vote.\n\nIn 1976, the Conservatives broke off pairing after accusing the Labour whips of bringing in an MP who was supposed to have been paired off. Later in the Commons, Michael Heseltine removed the House of Commons mace and swung in the chamber, which led to the suspension the session and subsequently of pairing. The aftermath included Labour MP Shirley Williams being recalled from a visit to China moments after landing, turning around and getting back on to the plane. In 1979, the government of James Callaghan fell by one vote, partially due to Labour deputy whip Walter Harrison suspending the unspoken obligation of his Conservative counterpart Bernard Weatherill to pair for the terminally ill Labour backbencher Sir Alfred Broughton after Weatherill was unable to find an MP in his party willing to pair on such an important vote. Pairing in the British House of Commons was suspended by a decision of the Labour and Liberal Democrat Chief Whips, Donald Dewar and Archy Kirkwood on 17 December 1996, following an incident when they claimed to find the Conservative government cheating in a vote by pairing the same three Conservative MPs with three absent Labour MPs as well as three absent Liberal Democrat MPs. The decision came into effect on 13 January 1997. It is not clear how long this protest lasted. In the 1997 general election, Labour were elected with a huge majority. Pairing is currently practised by both major parties in the British House of Commons and the Liberal Democrats, but only for votes that are not of great importance (one or two line whips).\n\nTrust in pairing was shaken again in the 2017 parliament. In June, Labour MP Naz Shah was controversially pushed through the lobby in a wheelchair, still under the impact of morphine, claiming that pairing was not offered, which was denied by the Conservative government. In July 2018, Liberal Democrat MP Jo Swinson was paired with Conservative chairman Brandon Lewis due to her being on maternity leave. Lewis missed the first seven votes of the session, but then voted with the government in two votes that were viewed as close, one of which was only won because four Labour members voted against the party. Conservative whip Julian Smith later admitted that Lewis had been asked to vote \"in error\" and Lewis apologised calling it an \"honest mistake\". Swinson, along with other MP's had been pressuring the government to allow MP's who were ill, recently bereaved or on maternity or paternity leave to vote \"by proxy\" (meaning they would be able to nominate someone to vote in their place), which would reduce the need for pairing. Calls for this to be approved gained strength in the immediate aftermath of the event.\n\nIn the United States Senate and House of Representatives, pairing is referred to as a live pair, which is an informal voluntary agreement between members, not specifically authorized or recognized by House or Senate rules. Live pairs are agreements which members make to nullify the effect of absences on the outcome of recorded votes. If a member expects to be absent for a vote, he or she may \"pair off\" with another member who will be present and who would vote on the other side of the question, but who agrees not to vote. The member in attendance states that he or she has a live pair, announces how each of the paired members would have voted, and then votes \"present.\" In this way, the other member can be absent without affecting the outcome of the vote. Because pairs are informal and unofficial arrangements, they are not counted in vote totals; however paired members' positions do appear in the \"Congressional Record\".\n\nAn example of a live pair is the lack of vote by Steve Daines (R-MT) and Present vote of Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) during the final confirmation vote in the Senate of Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Daines was in attendance at his daughter's wedding in Montana at the time of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "1879668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879668", "title": "Nancy Program", "text": "Nancy Program\n\nThe Nancy Program was the party platform for the Nationalist Socialist Party in France in 1889.\n\nIt was written by Maurice Barrès, an elected deputy from the town of Nancy (in Lorraine), and is valuable as a representative statement of the outlook of the new Right in France at the turn of the 20th century. In The Nancy Program, Barrès advocates The New Right, supporting nationalism and socialism. The document exemplifies the xenophobia and anti-semitism that was rampant in France at the time.\n"}
{"id": "1879676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879676", "title": "Live! at the Star-Club in Hamburg, Germany; 1962", "text": "Live! at the Star-Club in Hamburg, Germany; 1962\n\nLive! at the Star-Club in Hamburg, Germany; 1962 is a double album featuring live performances by the English rock band the Beatles, recorded in late December 1962 at the Star-Club during their final Hamburg residency. The album was released in 1977 in two different versions, comprising a total of 30 songs by the Beatles.\n\nThe performances were recorded on a home tape machine using a single microphone, resulting in a low fidelity recording. Ted \"Kingsize\" Taylor began to investigate possible marketing of the tapes in 1973. The tapes were eventually bought by Paul Murphy and subjected to extensive audio processing to improve the sound, leading to the 1977 album.\n\nAlthough the poor sound quality limits its commercial appeal, the album provides historic insight into the group's club act in the period after Ringo Starr joined but before the emergence of Beatlemania. The Beatles were unsuccessful in legally blocking the initial release of the album; the recordings were reissued in many forms until 1998, when the group were awarded full rights to the performances.\n\nThe Beatles' five residencies in Hamburg during 1960 to 1962 allowed the Liverpool band to develop their performance skills and widen their reputation. Drummer Pete Best was added to the band in August 1960 to secure their first Hamburg booking, where they played for 48 nights at the Indra Club and then 58 nights at the Kaiserkeller. The Beatles returned to Hamburg in April 1961 to play at the Top Ten Club for three months.\n\nA new Hamburg music venue, the Star-Club, opened on 13 April 1962, with The Beatles booked for the first seven weeks. The Beatles returned to Hamburg in November and December 1962 for their fourth and fifth engagements there, which had been booked for the Star-Club many months in advance. Unlike their previous three trips to Hamburg, their drummer was Starr, having replaced Best in August. The Beatles were reluctant to return for their final two-week booking, which started 18 December, as they were gaining popularity in Britain and had just achieved their first charted single with \"Love Me Do\".\n\nPortions of The Beatles' final Star-Club performances (along with other acts) were recorded by the club's stage manager, Adrian Barber, for Ted \"Kingsize\" Taylor. Barber used a Grundig home reel-to-reel recorder at a tape speed of 3¾ inches per second, with a single microphone placed in front of the stage. Taylor, leader of The Dominoes (who were also playing at the club), said that John Lennon verbally agreed to the group being recorded in exchange for Taylor providing the beer during their performances.\n\nThe tapes were originally described as having been recorded in the spring of 1962, an attempt to pre-date The Beatles' June 1962 contract signing with Parlophone. However, song arrangements and dialogue from the tapes pointed to late December 1962, and a recording date of 31 December 1962 (the group's last day in Hamburg) was commonly cited. Later researchers have proposed that the tapes are from multiple days during the last week of December; Allan Williams (The Beatles' booking agent at the time) recalled that a total of about three hours was recorded over three or four sessions between Christmas and New Year's Day.\nThe tapes captured The Beatles performing at least 33 different titles, plus some repeated songs. Of the 30 songs that were commercially released from the tapes, only two were Lennon–McCartney compositions. The others were an assortment of cover versions, 17 of which would be re-made by The Beatles and appear on their various studio albums or \"Live at the BBC\". The arrangements played at the Star-Club are similar to the versions recorded later, albeit less refined, although there are a few cases with distinct differences. For example, \"Mr. Moonlight\" has a much quicker tempo, a guitar-based instrumental break, and an intentionally altered lyric with Lennon proclaiming he is on his \"nose\" instead of his \"knees\"; \"Roll Over Beethoven\" was described as \"never taken at a more breakneck pace\".\n\nThe recording equipment and method resulted in the tapes being unmistakably low fidelity. The vocals, even in the best cases, sound \"somewhat muffled and distant\". The vocals on a few songs are so indistinct that labelling and liner notes on early releases gave incorrect information about who was singing and the exact song being performed. Much of The Beatles' dialogue between songs is audible, which includes addressing the audience in both English and German, as well as repartee among themselves. The banter is irreverent and coarse at times, an aspect of their stage act that would soon cease under the influence of manager Brian Epstein.\n\nTaylor said he had offered to sell the tapes to Epstein in the mid-1960s, but that Epstein did not consider them to be of commercial value and offered only £20. Taylor said he kept the tapes at home, largely forgotten until 1973 when he decided to look into their marketability. Williams related a different history than Taylor, stating that after Taylor returned to Liverpool, he left the tapes with a recording engineer for editing into a potential album. The project was never finished and the engineer later relocated, with the tapes being among many items left behind. In 1972, Williams, Taylor, and the engineer gained access to the abandoned office and recovered the tapes \"from beneath a pile of rubble on the floor.\"\n\nWhen the existence of the tapes was first publicly reported in July 1973, Williams was planning to ask Apple for at least £100,000. Williams said he later met with George Harrison and Starr to offer the tapes for £5,000, but they declined, citing financial difficulties at the time. Williams and Taylor teamed up with Paul Murphy, head of Buk Records, to find an outlet for the tapes.\n\nMurphy eventually bought the tapes himself and formed a new company, Lingasong, specifically for the project. He sold the worldwide distribution rights to Double H Licensing, which spent more than $100,000 on elaborate audio processing and mixing of the songs under the direction of Larry Grossberg. The sequence of songs was rearranged, and some of the individual songs were edited to bypass flawed tape sections or make up for an incomplete recording.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful attempt by The Beatles to block it, the 26-song \"Live! at the Star-Club in Hamburg, Germany; 1962\" was released by Lingasong. The album first appeared in Germany in April 1977 in association with Bellaphon Records, and was released in the UK the following month. For the album's June 1977 US release (in association with Atlantic Records), four songs were removed and replaced with four different songs from the tapes.\n\nOver the next two decades, the recordings were licensed to several record companies, resulting in numerous releases with varying track selections. In 1979, Pickwick Records performed some additional audio filtering and equalisation of the songs on the Lingasong US version, and released it over two volumes as \"First Live Recordings\"; the set included the song \"Hully Gully\" that was mistakenly credited to The Beatles, but was actually performed by Cliff Bennett and the Rebel Rousers, another act on the Star-Club bill. In 1981, Audio Fidelity Enterprises released \"Historic Sessions\" in the UK, the first single package with all 30 Beatles tracks from the original Star-Club releases. Several additional songs from the Star-Club tapes have appeared on Beatles bootleg records over the years.\n\nIn 1985, a bootlegger known as \"Richard\", who had already found infamy by issuing several titles with controversial covers and content, issued his own bootleg version of the Star Club tapes without any of the editing found on the official releases, entitled \"The Beatles vs. the Third Reich\"—directly parodying \"The Beatles vs. the Four Seasons\" in both name and cover.\n\nThe release of the recordings on two CDs by industry giant Sony Music in 1991 sparked renewed legal attention by The Beatles (as represented by Paul McCartney, Harrison, Starr, and Yoko Ono). Sony also produced a version specifically for their Columbia House music club, but Sony withdrew the titles in 1992 as a lawsuit was progressing. Lingasong's CD release of the original set prompted another lawsuit from The Beatles in 1996; the case was decided in 1998 in favour of The Beatles, who were granted ownership of the tapes and exclusive rights to their use. Harrison appeared in person to provide evidence in the case, and his testimony was cited as an important factor in the judge's decision. Harrison characterised the claim that Lennon gave Taylor permission for the recording as \"a load of rubbish\", and added: \"One drunken person recording another bunch of drunks does not constitute business deals.\"\n\nThe album had limited commercial success, reaching a peak position of No. 111 during a seven-week run on the US \"Billboard\" 200 album chart. Assessments of the album often weigh the poor sound quality against the historic importance and insight provided into The Beatles' early stage act. \"Rolling Stone\" reviewer John Swenson called the album \"poorly recorded but fascinating\" and commented that it showed The Beatles as \"raw but extremely powerful.\" Allmusic, commenting on a reissue, wrote: \"The results were very low-fidelity, and despite The Beatles' enormous success, it took Taylor fifteen years to find someone greedy and shameless enough to release them as a record\". \"Q\" magazine described the recordings as having \"certain historical interest\" and remarked: \"The show seems like a riot but the sound itself is terrible – like one hell of a great party going on next door.\" George Harrison gave the assessment: \"The Star-Club recording was the crummiest recording ever made in our name!\"\n\n\n\n\n\nThe US version includes the above except \"I Saw Her Standing There\", \"Twist and Shout\", \"Reminiscing\", and \"Ask Me Why\", and substitutes the following four songs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879677", "title": "Graphophone", "text": "Graphophone\n\nThe Graphophone was the name and trademark of an improved version of the phonograph. It was invented at the Volta Laboratory established by Alexander Graham Bell in Washington, D.C., United States.\n\nIts trademark usage was acquired successively by the Volta Graphophone Company, then the American Graphophone Company, the North American Phonograph Company, and finally by the Columbia Phonograph Company (known today as Columbia Records), all of which either produced or sold Graphophones.\n\nIt took five years of research under the directorship of Benjamin Hulme, Harvey Christmas, Charles Sumner Tainter and Chichester Bell at the Volta Laboratory to develop and distinguish their machine from Thomas Edison's Phonograph.\n\nAmong their innovations, the researchers experimented with lateral recording techniques as early as 1881. Contrary to the vertically-cut grooves of Edison Phonographs, the lateral recording method used a cutting stylus that moved from side to side in a \"zig zag\" pattern across the record. While cylinder phonographs never employed the lateral cutting process commercially, this later became the primary method of phonograph disc recording.\n\nBell and Tainter also developed wax-coated cardboard cylinders for their record cylinder. Edison's grooved mandrel covered with a removable sheet of tinfoil (the actual recording medium) was prone to damage during installation or removal. Tainter received a separate patent for a tube assembly machine to automatically produce the coiled cardboard tube cores of the wax cylinder records. The shift from tinfoil to wax resulted in increased sound fidelity and record longevity.\n\nBesides being far easier to handle, the wax recording medium also allowed for lengthier recordings and created superior playback quality. Additionally the Graphophones initially deployed foot treadles to rotate the recordings, then wind-up clockwork drive mechanisms, and finally migrated to electric motors, instead of the manual crank on Edison's Phonograph.\n\nIn 1885, when the Volta Laboratory Associates were sure that they had a number of practical inventions, they filed patent applications and began to seek out investors. The Volta Graphophone Company of Alexandria, Virginia, was created on January 6, 1886, and incorporated on February 3, 1886. It formed to control the patents and to handle the commercial development of their sound recording and reproduction inventions, one of which became the first Dictaphone.\n\nAfter the Volta Associates gave several demonstrations in Washington, D.C., businessmen from Philadelphia created the American Graphophone Company on March 28, 1887, to produce and sell the machines for the budding phonograph marketplace. The Volta Graphophone Company then merged with American Graphophone, which itself later evolved into Columbia Records. The Howe Machine Factory (for sewing machines) in Bridgeport, Connecticut, became American Graphophone manufacturing plant. Tainter resided there for several months to supervise manufacturing before becoming ill, but later went on to continue his inventive work for many years. The small Bridgeport plant, which initially produced three or four machines a day, later became the Dictaphone Corporation.\n\nShortly after American Graphophone creation, Jesse H. Lippincott used nearly $1 million of an inheritance to gain control of it, as well as the rights to the Graphophone and the Bell and Tainter patents. He directly invested $200,000 into American Graphophone, and agreed to purchase 5,000 machines yearly, in return for sales rights to the Graphophone (except in Virginia, Delaware, and the District of Columbia).\n\nSoon after, Lippincott purchased the Edison Speaking Phonograph Company and its patents for US$500,000, and exclusive sales rights of the Phonograph in the United States from Ezrah T. Gilliand (who had previously been granted the contract by Edison) for $250,000, leaving Edison with the manufacturing rights.\n. He then created the North American Phonograph Company in 1888 to consolidate the national sales rights of both the Graphophone and the Edison Speaking Phonograph.\n\nJesse Lippincott set up a sales network of local companies to lease Phonographs and Graphophones as dictation machines. In the early 1890s Lippincott fell victim to the unit's mechanical problems and also to resistance from stenographers, resulting in the company's bankruptcy. \n\nA coin-operated version of the Graphophone, , was developed by Tainter in 1893 to compete with \"nickel-in-the-slot\" entertainment phonograph demonstrated in 1889 by Louis T. Glass, manager of the Pacific Phonograph Company.\n\nIn 1889, the trade name \"Graphophone\" began to be utilized by Columbia Phonograph Company as the name for their version of the Phonograph. Columbia Phonograph Company, originally established by a group of entrepreneurs licensed by the American Graphophone Company to retail graphophones in Washington DC, ultimately acquired American Graphophone Company in 1893. In 1904, Columbia Phonograph Company established itself in Toronto, Canada. Two years later, in 1906, the American Graphophone company reorganized and changed its name to Columbia Graphophone Company to reflect its association with Columbia. In 1918, Columbia Graphophone Company reorganized to form a retailer, Columbia Graphophone Company—and a manufacturer, Columbia Graphophone Manufacturing Company. In 1923, Louis Sterling bought Columbia Phonograph Co. and reorganized it yet again, giving birth to the future record giant Columbia Records.\n\nEarly machines compatible with Edison cylinders were modified treadle machines. The upper-works connected to a spring or electric motor (called Type K electric) in a boxy case, which could record and play back the old Bell and Tainter cylinders. Some models, like the Type G, had new upper-works that were not designed to play Bell and Tainter cylinders. The name \"Graphophone\" was used by Columbia (for disc machines) into the 1920s or 1930s, and the similar name \"Grafonola\" was used to denote internal horn machines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879729", "title": "Chicago Cougars", "text": "Chicago Cougars\n\nThe Chicago Cougars were a franchise in the World Hockey Association from 1972 to 1975. The Cougars played their home games in the International Amphitheatre. During the 1974 Avco Cup Finals against Gordie Howe and the Houston Aeros, the team's two home games were played at the Randhurst Twin Ice Arena in suburban Mount Prospect. This was because a presentation of \"Peter Pan\" starring gymnast Cathy Rigby was booked into the Amphitheatre when the National Hockey League's Chicago Blackhawks and the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls had both entered their own playoffs, making the Chicago Stadium unavailable for either the Cougars and \"Peter Pan\".\n\nJust prior to their third season, the team was sold to Cougars players Ralph Backstrom and Dave Dryden, and player-coach Pat Stapleton after the original owners, Walter and Jordon Kaiser, were unable to secure funds to build a new arena. The land for the arena, originally named the O'Hare Sports Arena, was sold to the village of Rosemont and became the Rosemont Horizon (now the Allstate Arena). This building is the now the home of the Chicago Wolves of the American Hockey League.\n\nThey were placed in the Western Division for their first season (1972–73) and transferred to the Eastern Division for their final two seasons (1973–74 and 1974–75) when the Philadelphia Blazers moved to Vancouver.\n\nThe Cougars were the first North American major professional hockey team to feature player numbers on the front of their jersey in the upper right corner. The next professional team to try it was the NHL's Buffalo Sabres in 2006, the only current NHL team to feature front numbers (the San Jose Sharks used these numbers as well from 2007-2015).\n\nThe Cougars finished last in the WHA's Western Division during the season with 54 points. Team defense finished 8th overall with 295 goals against and dead last in team offense with 245 goals. The one bright spot for Chicago was Bob Sicinski finishing 5th in the league with 63 assists.\n\nThe Cougars finished fourth in the Eastern Division with 81 points. They were seventh overall in goals for with 271 and sixth overall in goals against with 273. Pat Stapleton finished ninth in the league with 52 assists and Ralph Backstrom followed in tenth with 50. Larry Mavety finished tenth in the league with 157 penalty minutes. The Cougars would make their only postseason appearance that year. In the Eastern Division semifinals, they upset the defending league champion New England Whalers, four games to three. In the divisional final, they defeated the Toronto Toros, four games to three, with the Cougars winning the decisive seventh game on Toronto ice, 5-2. Chicago would be hopelessly outmatched in the AVCO World Trophy Final against the Houston Aeros, though, who featured hockey legend Gordie Howe and his sons, Mark and Marty. The Aeros would sweep the series in four games, outscoring the Cougars 22-9.\n\nThe Cougars finished third in the Eastern Division and twelfth overall with 61 points. They were tenth overall in goals for with 261 and twelfth overall in goals against with 261. Larry Mavety finished tenth in the league again with 150 penalty minutes but was traded to Toronto after playing 57 games with Chicago. Following the season, the Cougars franchise folded after the player-owners were unable to attract more financing. (With the death of the Cougars, the WHA had departed all of the three biggest markets in the United States: the New York Golden Blades shifted to south Jersey early in the 1973-74 season, while the Los Angeles Sharks moved to Detroit in 1974.) In the dispersal draft that followed, most of the players ended up with the expansion Denver Spurs, and the Spurs are sometimes considered as a continuation of the Cougars.\n\nThe last active Chicago Cougars player in North American major professional hockey was Curt Brackenbury, who played 4 games with the Cougars in the 1973-74 season, and retired from the NHL after the 1982-83 NHL season. As well, Cougars draft pick Reggie Lemelin played in the NHL until the 1992-93 season, but never played in the WHA.\n\nThe Cougars made the playoffs only once, in 1974. The initial series versus New England passed without incident, but the next two series would be difficult in more ways than one. The International Amphitheatre was unavailable for the second round because it had booked a production of \"Peter Pan\", featuring former Olympic gymnast Cathy Rigby in the title role. Though the team did negotiate for use of Chicago Stadium, the home of the rival Chicago Black Hawks of the NHL and the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls, it too was unavailable because both those teams were playing in their own playoffs. The team briefly considered playing the matches at the Cleveland Arena before deciding to go to stay in Illinois at a public skating rink, the Randhurst Twin Ice Arena, adjacent to Mount Prospect's Randhurst Mall. Though the arena could only hold 2000 spectators, the team played its three home matches of the series in Randhurst.\n\nWhen the Cougars won their series versus Toronto, the \"Peter Pan\" show had moved on, and the Amphitheatre should have been available. However, the Amphitheatre had a portable ice surface. For reasons that were never stated, the Amphitheatre staff decided the hockey season was over so uncovered and dismantled the copper pipes used to chill the ice. The Cougars had no choice but to return to Randhurst for the finals. The Cougars never quite recovered from the public relations disaster; one sports reporter had quipped, \"The Cougars were beaten by the greatest lightweight of them all — Peter Pan.\"\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1879730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879730", "title": "Roger Moran", "text": "Roger Moran\n\nRoger Moran is a British hillclimb driver, who won the British Hillclimb Championship in 1997. In recent years he has shared a car with his son Scott.\n"}
{"id": "1879742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879742", "title": "1999 Portuguese legislative election", "text": "1999 Portuguese legislative election\n\nThe Portuguese legislative election of 1999 took place on 10 October. The Socialist Party was aiming a second term under the lead of António Guterres, in the end the Socialists \"won\" the election, but missed what would be an historical absolute majority for the party by just one MP.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party under the lead of José Manuel Durão Barroso was still away from the preferences of the majority of the Portuguese people, after the ten years cycle under the lead of Cavaco Silva that had terminated four years before. The Democratic Unity Coalition achieved an important climb in the scorecard, against those who predicted its irreversible decline after the end of the Socialist Bloc in the early 1990s. For the first time, the Left Bloc, formed after the merger of several minor left-wing parties became represented in the parliament after electing two MPs. Turnout in this election was very low, only being surpassed in 2009 and 2011 when turnout was just less than 60%.\n\nVoter turnout reached only 61% of voters, one of the lowest ever recorded.\n\nThe Assembly of the Republic has 230 members elected to four-year terms. Governments do not require absolute majority support of the Assembly to hold office, as even if the number of opposers of government is larger than that of the supporters, the number of opposers still needs to be equal or greater than 116 (absolute majority) for both the Government's Programme to be rejected or for a motion of no confidence to be approved.\n\nThe number of seats assigned to each district depends on the district magnitude. The use of the d'Hondt method makes for a higher effective threshold than certain other allocation methods such as the Hare quota or Sainte-Laguë method, which are more generous to small parties.\n\nThe major parties involved were listed with their leaders:\n\n\nAntónio Guterres, leader of the Socialist Party, was nominated Prime Minister for the second time, and missed the absolute majority by one MP, achieving exactly half of the 230 MPs.\n\nThe following table shows the opinion polls of voting intention of the Portuguese voters before the election. Those parties that are listed are currently represented in parliament. Included is also the result of the Portuguese general elections in 1995 and 1999 for reference.\n\nNote, until 2000, the publication of opinion polls in the last week of the campaign was forbidden.\n\n! rowspan=\"2\" colspan=2 style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=left|Parties\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|Votes\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! colspan=\"5\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=\"center\"|MPs\n! rowspan=\"2\" style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align:right;\" |MPs %/votes %\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1995\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9;text-align=center|1999\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|%\n! style=\"background-color:#E9E9E9\" align=right|±\n\n!rowspan=2|Constituency!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S!!%!!S\n!rowspan=2|TotalS\n!colspan=2 | PS\n!colspan=2 | PSD\n!colspan=2 | CDU\n!colspan=2 | CDS–PP\n!colspan=2 | BE\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879752", "title": "Calgary Tigers", "text": "Calgary Tigers\n\nThe Calgary Tigers, often nicknamed the \"Bengals\", were an ice hockey team based in Calgary, Alberta, Canada from 1920 until 1927 as members of the Big Four League, Western Canada Hockey League and Prairie Hockey League. The Tigers were revived in 1932, playing for a short-lived four years in the North Western Hockey League. They played their games at the Victoria Arena.\n\nCreated ostensibly as an amateur team in hopes of competing for the Allan Cup, the Tigers helped form the Western Canada Hockey League in 1921 to become the first major professional team in Calgary. In 1924, after winning both the league and Western Canadian championships, the Tigers became the first Calgary based club to compete for the Stanley Cup.\n\nAfter succumbing to financial pressures in 1927, the Tigers were briefly revived in the mid-1930s as a minor professional club. The Tigers competed for a total of eleven seasons in four leagues, winning four championships during their existence. Five Tigers players would later gain election to the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1919, under the guidance of Alberta Amateur Hockey Association league president Allan McCaw, a new elite senior amateur league was established in Alberta with two teams each in Calgary and Edmonton. The Big-4 League's intention was to compete for the Allan Cup, emblematic of Canada's national senior championship. The Tigers were created in 1920, along with the \"Canadians\", to represent Calgary in the Big Four after the city's two original teams, the \"Wanderers\" and \"Columbus Crew\", withdrew following the league's first season. The Tigers also faced the Edmonton Eskimos and Dominions who served as representatives of Alberta's capital. The Calgary teams were hosted at the Victoria Arena, which had been converted into a hockey rink in 1918.\n\nWhile the Big-4 billed itself as an amateur circuit, it became known as a notorious example of a \"shamateur\" league, as amateur teams secretly employed professional players in an attempt to gain an upper hand on their competition. When the Big Four announced their intention to compete in the Allan Cup playdowns, the Pacific Coast Hockey Association sent a letter of protest to the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association demanding that the league be declared professional, thus ineligible to compete for the Allan Cup. The Big Four ultimately chose to withdraw from the AAHA, and operated as an independent league in 1920–21.\n\nThe Tigers' inaugural game was played at home on December 29, 1920 as 2,500 fans saw them defeat the Edmonton Dominions 6–1 on the strength of a goal and two assists by Gordon Fraser. Late in the season, the Canadians protested the use of goaltender Bill Tobin by the Edmonton Eskimos, arguing that he had not lived in Alberta long enough to be eligible per the league's residency rules. Following a last minute change of one of the arbitrators, a three-man panel denied the protest. The decision led the front-running Tigers to refuse to play any series against the second-place Eskimos for the league championship as the team felt the Canadians' protest was improperly handled. Efforts to reach a compromise failed as the Edmonton clubs refused to allow the protest to be reconsidered, resulting in the collapse of the league on February 24, 1921.\n\nThe Tigers remained active despite the demise of the league, playing a series of exhibition games against the Saskatoon Crescents and a team from Moose Jaw. The Eskimos eventually agreed to face the Tigers without Tobin in an informal championship that was known as the \"Intercity Championship\". The Tigers claimed the title on total-goals as they defeated Edmonton 2–0 in the first game at Calgary before dropping the second 2–1 at Edmonton. The Tigers ended their season with a 2–0 exhibition loss to the defending Stanley Cup champion Ottawa Senators, who were touring the country as they travelled west to defend their title against the PCHA champion Vancouver Millionaires.\n\nThe former Big Four teams joined with the Saskatoon Sheiks in forming a new professional league in 1921 that intended to compete against the National Hockey League and Pacific Coast Hockey Association. The Western Canada Hockey League was recognized as a major league and granted the right to compete for the Stanley Cup. Shortly before the inaugural season was set to begin, Calgary Canadians president Dr. C.E. Coleman and Tigers manager Eddie Poulin agreed amalgamate the two franchises under the Tigers name, allowing Calgary to present a unified front in the new league.\n\nThe Tigers played the first professional hockey game in Calgary on December 19, 1921, defeating the Regina Capitals 3–2 before a crowd of 3,000 fans. The Tigers, Eskimos and Capitals battled for first place in the league, each team holding the top spot numerous times throughout the season. The Tigers and Capitals finished tied for second, forcing a two-game, total-goals playoff to determine who would meet the Eskimos for the league championship. In the series, the Capitals defeated the Tigers 1–0 in Calgary, while the two teams tied 1–1 in Regina sending the Capitals through by a 2–1 aggregate total.\n\nPrior to the start of the 1922–23 season, the Tigers faced the Stanley Cup champion Toronto St. Patricks in two exhibition games. They defeated the St. Pats 7–5 in Calgary, and again 6–2 in a game held in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The WCHL and PCHA adopted an interlocking schedule for this season, with the Tigers struggling against their pacific coast opposition, winning just two of six games. Calgary finished third in the standings, behind Edmonton and Regina, as former Tiger Barney Stanley scored the winning goal against Calgary in a 2–1 victory by the Regina Capitals that eliminated Calgary from playoff contention. They ended the season with a 4–0 exhibition victory over the NHL's Ottawa Senators in a game described as one of the \"most sensational\" games ever held in Calgary.\n\nThe 1923–24 season began with tragedy, as Tigers' forward Foley Martin died of blood poisoning during the team's season opening road trip to the pacific coast. The Tigers played on despite Martin's death, winning two of three games against their PCHA rivals. The Tigers finished atop the league standings with 37 points. They met the Regina Capitals in the league championship in a two-game, total goals series. After battling Regina to a 2–2 draw in the Saskatchewan capital, the Tigers returned home to Calgary, capturing the championship on home ice in a 2–0 victory. They then moved on to face the Vancouver Maroons of the PCHA in the best-of-three Western Canadian final. After dropping the first game in Vancouver, the Tigers came back to defeat the Maroons 6–3 at home, and again 3–1 at a neutral site game in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The victory earned the Tigers the right to play for the Stanley Cup, the first such opportunity for a Calgary-based club.\n\nDespite defeating the Maroons, the PCHA champions were not eliminated. Rather, the Tigers earned a bye into the finals, while Vancouver met the Montreal Canadiens in the semi-final. The \"blue, blanc et rouge\" swept Vancouver in two games, setting the matchup for the 1924 Stanley Cup Finals where the Canadiens easily handled the Tigers. In the first game, played at Mount Royal Arena in Montreal, Canadiens rookie Howie Morenz recorded a hat trick as Montreal won 6–1. Due to poor ice conditions, the second game was moved to the Ottawa Auditorium in Ottawa. Led by goaltender Georges Vezina, Montreal won 3–0 to sweep the series, and claim the Cup.\n\nCalgary began the 1924–25 season with a series of exhibition games in eastern Canada. They faced the St. Pats and Senators, proving to be a popular draw in the capital as Ottawa fans lined up for tickets for the pair of games played. Additionally, the Tigers negotiated to face the NHL's expansion Montreal Maroons if the newly constructed Montreal Forum was ready in time. Those games did not come to pass. In WCHL league play, the Tigers once again finished the regular season in first place. Led by Oliver's team leading 20 goals, the Tigers earned a bye into the WCHL championship. Their opponent was the Victoria Cougars, who moved over to the WCHL following the collapse of the PCHA the previous summer. The Tigers were unable to earn a return trip to the Stanley Cup Finals, losing the two-game total-goals series 3–1. The Cougars went on to become the last non-NHL team to win the Stanley Cup. The Tigers struggled throughout the 1925–26 season, languishing in last place for most of the season until a 2–0 victory over Victoria on the last day of the season moved Calgary one point ahead of Vancouver to end the season.\n\nThe financial pressures of trying to keep up with rapidly escalating salaries took its toll on the league. The prairie clubs, including the Tigers, were struggling under financial hardships while a mild winter of 1925–26 reduced the quality of the natural ice at Victoria arena which, coupled with the team's poor performance, reduced attendance. Manager Lance Turner confirmed on May 4, 1926 that the Tigers were sold to the National Hockey League, along with the franchises in Edmonton, Regina, Victoria, Vancouver and Portland, and that the league had ceased operations. The six franchises were sold for $300,000.\n\nTurner immediately began efforts to form a new team and league that would operate as a \"class B\" league, one level below the NHL. Three weeks after the collapse of the Western League, the Tigers were reformed as a charter member of the five team Prairie Hockey League. The team struggled to attract fans in the Prairie League, and consequently announced late in the season that it would cease operations after one year. The Tigers were successful on the ice, however, as they finished atop the league standings and met the Saskatoon Sheiks in a best-of-three series for the league title. Calgary dropped the first game, 2–1 in Saskatoon, but tied the series with a 2–1 victory in Calgary on the strength of two goals in the last five minutes by Andy Aikenhead. The Tigers were then awarded the league championship after the Sheiks defaulted the third game, refusing to play in opposition to the referee assigned for the deciding game. As Prairie champions, the Tigers traveled east to face the Winnipeg Maroons for the western Canadian professional championship. Calgary won the first game, then were awarded the title after the Maroons were unable to play the second game when the American Hockey Association rescheduled their league playoff series and created a conflict. The Tigers ended their season with exhibition games in the United States before the team was disbanded.\n\nIn 1932, the Tigers were revived as a charter franchise of a reformed, minor-professional, Western Canada Hockey League. They opened the season with a 1–0 defeat in Edmonton on December 7, 1932 in what was the first professional game for either city in six years, while a near capacity crowd of 4,100 fans witnessed a 7–0 victory by the Tigers over the Eskimos two nights later in Calgary. The Tigers finished the season in first place with on the strength of giving up the fewest goals against during the season, but struggled to attract fans. Attendance declined throughout the season to a low of just 560 for their victory over Saskatoon in early March that clinched the league's top record. Overall, the team averaged 2,270 fans per game. Having earned a bye to the championship series, the Tigers faced the Eskimos in a best-of-five series marred by poor ice caused unseasonably warm weather in both cities. Following a 1–1 tie in the first game at Calgary, the league ordered the remaining games of the series be played in Edmonton due to the poor condition of the ice surface. The second game was also tied at 1 after bad ice in Edmonton forced it to be ended early. Two victories for the Eskimos pushed Calgary to the brink of elimination before the Tigers rebounded with a 5–1 victory in the fifth game. The ties earlier in the series forced the teams to a sixth game that also went to overtime tied at 1 before the Eskimos scored to win the championship after four minutes of an extra period.\n\nThe league reformed as the North Western Hockey League following the season after the Saskatchewan clubs dropped out and were replaced with three teams on the Pacific Coast. Calgary again won the regular-season title in 1933–34, advancing directly to the league championship, on the strength of a 12–3 victory over the Vancouver Lions in the final game of the regular season. Dutch Gainor won the league scoring title with 43 points. Fearing a repeat of the previous season's playoff disaster, the league ordered Calgary to play their championship series against the Lions in Seattle and Vancouver as both cities had arenas capable of making artificial ice. The disadvantage did not affect the Tigers in the opening game of the series, a 5–2 victory at Seattle. The teams traded victories in the next three contests, ending in a 2–1 Vancouver win in the fourth game that tied the series at 2 wins apiece. Calgary won the championship with a 6–1 victory before a Vancouver crowd of over 6,000 fans.\n\nThe 1934 championship would prove to be the Tigers' last hurrah, as the team fell to the bottom of the NWHL standings in 1934–35, winning only three games. They once again finished in last place in 1935–36 and were embroiled in another disputer with Edmonton over the rights to a player as the Eskimos claimed they had gained the rights to Tony Savage from the Montreal Canadiens though he had already been sent to Calgary on loan. The Tigers issued an ultimatum to the league, threatening to disband for the season if Savage did not remain in Calgary. Savage ultimately remained with Calgary for the entire season.\n\n1936 proved to be the final year for the Tigers, as the Great Depression and declining interest in professional hockey in favour of the senior game had threatened the team's viability. After the Eskimos announced intentions to relocate to Victoria, British Columbia as part of a realignment of the league, Tigers' manager Clair Manning contemplated relocating the franchise to Spokane, Washington. The team instead hoped to operate for another season in Calgary, but met its final demise after the NWHL reformed into the Pacific Coast Hockey League for 1936–37 and denied the Tigers' application to join the new league.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against\"\n\nThe WCHL's short and unstable existence was a result of salary escalation caused by having three leagues competing for top talent. As a result, by the mid-1920s, hockey players were among the highest paid athletes in North America, with top players able to demand even higher salaries than the top baseball stars of the time. Though the WCHL lasted only five years, the Tigers boasted five future Hockey Hall of Famers on their roster during that time.\n\nBarney Stanley, a former PCHA star, spent two seasons with the Tigers from 1920–22. Joining the Tigers in the last season of the Big Four League, he once again turned pro when the Tigers joined the WCHL. Stanley led the Tigers in scoring with 26 goals in 1921–22 before being traded to Regina. Red Dutton, a World War I veteran who refused doctors orders to have his leg amputated after suffering a shrapnel wound, played 123 games with the Tigers before moving to the NHL where he played 449 more with the Montreal Maroons and New York Americans. Rusty Crawford, a former standout in the National Hockey Association and National Hockey League before the war, spent three seasons in Calgary from 1922–25. Crawford recorded 19 goals in 64 games as a Tiger.\n\nHerb Gardiner began his professional career in Calgary in 1920, remaining with the Tigers until he was sold to the Montreal Canadiens in 1926, where he would go on to win the Hart Memorial Trophy as NHL Most Valuable Player in 1927. Harry Oliver also began his pro career in Calgary, playing with the Tigers from 1921–26 where he scored 90 goals before being sold to the Boston Bruins. Oliver would go on to play eleven seasons in the NHL with the Bruins and New York Americans.\n\n\nThe uniform of the Calgary Tigers served as the inspiration for the \"vintage\" uniform of the Calgary Flames which was worn in the Heritage Classic game in February 2011. While the Calgary Flames do not trace their ancestry back to the Tigers (the Atlanta Flames club was purchased by Calgary businessmen in the 1980s), the organization had wanted to recognize the first professional hockey club in Calgary history for this event and selected the colourful uniforms of the Tigers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879769", "title": "Lagrangian foliation", "text": "Lagrangian foliation\n\nIn mathematics, a Lagrangian foliation or polarization is a foliation of a symplectic manifold, whose leaves are Lagrangian submanifolds. It is one of the steps involved in the geometric quantization of a square-integrable functions on a symplectic manifold.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879774", "title": "Paul-Louis Halley", "text": "Paul-Louis Halley\n\nPaul-Louis Halley (16 September 1934 – 6 December 2003) was a French businessman who co-founded the retail company Promodès, which later merged with Carrefour. Much of his fortune came from his 11% stakeholding in Carrefour. He was estimated to have a fortune of £2.2bn, putting him at 104th on the \"Forbes\" World's Richest People list in 2003. He died in a plane crash in 2003.\n\nPaul-Louis Halley founded the retail company Promodès in 1961, along with his father and brother. The company merged with Carrefour in 1999, with Halley as the principal shareholder.\n\nHe was killed in a Socata TBM 700 aircraft crash on 6 December 2003, during an approach to Oxford Airport. The plane went into an uncontrolled roll, killing Halley, his wife, and the pilot. The Air Accidents Investigation Branch could find no cause for the crash. There were no technical problems with the plane, and investigators could only speculate that the pilot was distracted by a bird as he tried to land. \n\nThe inquest into the death of Paul-Louis Halley took place in Oxford, England, in late October 2005. A jury returned a verdict of accidental death.\n"}
{"id": "1879779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879779", "title": "Spring Scream", "text": "Spring Scream\n\nThe Spring Scream () is an outdoor music festival held in early April each year at Kenting, Pingtung County, Taiwan. The festival showcases a variety of music styles from bands both from Taiwan and overseas. Each year the festival adds the name of the current Chinese astrological animal to its name. The festival is organized by two expatriate Americans, Wade Davis and Jimi Moe, and has grown significantly since its beginnings in 1995.\n\nThe event length has been between 2 and 11 days and as many as 300 acts on 8 stages. It also features a film festival, art exhibits, DJs, stalls, food vendors and camping.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879781", "title": "Arnaut de Mareuil", "text": "Arnaut de Mareuil\n\nArnaut de Mareuil (\"fl.\" late 12th century) was a troubadour, composing lyric poetry in the Occitan language. Twenty-five, perhaps twenty-nine, of his songs, all \"cansos\", survive, six with music. According to Hermann Oelsner's contribution to the 1911 \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Arnaut de Mareuil surpassed his more famous contemporary Arnaut Daniel in \"elegant simplicity of form and delicacy of sentiment\". This runs against the consensus of both past and modern scholars: Dante, Petrarch, Pound and Eliot, who were familiar with both authors and consistently proclaim Daniel's supremacy\n\nHis name indicates that he came from Mareuil-sur-Belle in Périgord. He is said to have been a \"clerk\" from a poor family who eventually became a jongleur; he settled at the courts of Toulouse and then Béziers. He apparently loved the countess Azalais, daughter of Raymond V of Toulouse, married to Roger II Trencavel, and Arnaut's surviving poems may be seen as a sequence (lyric cycle) telling of his love. Alfonso II of Aragon was his rival for Azalais's affections, and according to the \"razó\" to one of Arnaut's poems, the king jealously persuaded her to break off her friendship with Arnaut. He fled to Montpellier, where he found a patron in count William VIII.\nArnaut's \"cantaire\" (singer) and \"jongleur\" (minstrel, messenger) was Pistoleta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879782", "title": "Winnipeg Victorias", "text": "Winnipeg Victorias\n\nThe Winnipeg Victorias were a former amateur senior-level men's amateur ice hockey team in Winnipeg, Manitoba, organized in 1889. They played in the Manitoba Hockey Association (MHA) in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Victorias won the Stanley Cup in February 1896, 1901 and January 1902 while losing the Cup in December 1896, February 1899, February 1900, March 1902, and February 1903. After the Stanley Cup became the professional championship, the Victorias continued in senior-level amateur play, winning the Allan Cup in 1911 and 1912.\n\nThe Victoria Hockey Club, and the first rink they played in, took their name from the then-reigning monarch of Canada, Queen Victoria.\n\nFrom 1889 until 1892, the Victorias played exhibitions and played against other Winnipeg teams. The Victorias played in the first match in Western Canada between organized hockey clubs on December 20, 1890 against the Winnipeg Hockey Club at the Street Railway Rink in Winnipeg. The players were:\nSource: \n\nThe Victorias helped to found the Manitoba Hockey Association in 1893. In February 1893, players from the Victorias joined players from the Winnipeg Dragoons and the Winnipeg Hockey Club on a tour of Eastern Canada to demonstrate the quality of ice hockey in Western Canada. \nTour schedule\n\nSource: \"Montreal Gazette\"\n\nThe Victorias first won the Stanley Cup in 1896, defeated the Montreal Victorias in a single-game challenge 2-0 on February 14, 1896 in Montreal. In the rematch, Winnipeg lost to Montreal in a single-game challenge 5-6 on December 30, 1896 in Winnipeg.\n\nIn 1898, the team moved to the new Winnipeg Auditorium, built to hold 2000 spectators for hockey. In February 1899, the Victorias would lose a two-game total goals series 5-3 against Montreal. In their next chance, the Victorias defeated Montreal Shamrocks in a two-game, total goals series 4-3, 2-1 (6-4) on January 29 and 31, 1901 in Montreal. The Victorias held the trophy, winning the Manitoba championship, and successfully defended the Stanley Cup against the Toronto Wellingtons in a two-game, total goals series 5-3, 5-3 (10-6) on January 21 and 23, 1902 in Winnipeg at the Auditorium. The Victorias run as champion ended in a loss to Montreal Hockey Club in a best two-of-three 1-0, 0-5 and 1-2 on March 13, 15 and 17, 1902 in Winnipeg.\n\nAfter the Stanley Cup was awarded only to professional teams starting in 1908, the Victorias did not challenge for the Stanley Cup, and remained an amateur team, playing in the Manitoba Association. The 1911 Winnipeg Victorias appear to have won the Allan Cup by default when the Ontario Hockey Association refused to allow their team to play mid-season. In March of that year, the Vics defended the cup by defeating Kenora 12-5. In 1912 the Victorias defended the cup against Calgary (March 5 11-0 & March 7 8-6), Toronto Eatons (March 9 8-4 & 16-1) and Regina (March 14 9-3).\n\nThe 1896 & 1901 Stanley Cup champions and the 1911 & 1912 Allan Cup champions Winnipeg Victorias are inducted into the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame and the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame and Museum in the team category.\n\n\n\nFebruary 14, 1896 Stanley Cup winners\n\nGeorge Merritt (goal), Rod Flett (point), Fred Higginbotham (cover point), Charles Johnstone (cover point), Dan Bain (center), Jack Armytage (rover - Captain), Colin \"Tote\" Campbell (left wing), Tom \"Attie\" Howard (right wing), Bobby R Benson (Spare-left-right wing), Jack Sheppard (goal-played 1 regular season game), E.B. Nixon (President), Able Code (Vice President/Manager), J. Carter (Mascot/Trainer).\n\nAn interesting factoid for this 2-0 win over the similarly named Montreal Victorias is that the very first Stanley Cup Parade was held in Winnipeg on Main Street celebrating this victory.\n\nJanuary 31, 1901 Stanley Cup winners\n\nArt Brown (goal), Rod Flett (point), Jack Marshall (point), Magnus Flett (cover point), Burke Wood (rover), Dan Bain (center - Captain), Fred Cadham (center), Charles Johnstone (left wing), Tony Gingras (right wing), George A. Carruthers (right wing), Jack Armytage (President), Mark Hooper (Trainer), Ted Robinson (Secretary-treasurer), Walter Pratt (Director).\n\nJanuary 23, 1902 Stanley Cup winners\n\nArt Brown (goal), Dan Bain (center - Captain), Fred Cadham (Center), Rod Flett (point), Magnus Flett (cover point), Tony Gingras (right wing), Charles Johnstone (left wing/rover), Fred Scanlan (left wing), Burke Wood (rover), Jack Armytage (President), Mark Hooper (Trainer), Ted Robinson (Secretary-treasurer), Walter Pratt (Director).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879814", "title": "Nitta Yoshisada", "text": "Nitta Yoshisada\n\nLater he fought the Takauji brothers on the Emperor's behalf in a see-saw campaign which saw the capital change hands several times. After a compromise peace was agreed, Yoshisada was entrusted with two royal princes. At the siege of Kanegasaki both were killed, along with Yoshisada's son, although Yoshisada was able to escape.\n\nHe died when his horse was killed at the siege of Kuromaru. Pinned under it, he committed seppuku.\n\nLong an enemy of Ashikaga Takauji, Nitta Yoshisada is often blamed for the split between the Northern and Southern Courts, as he fought against the Ashikaga and for the emperor, Emperor Go-Daigo. This rivalry came largely from the fact that the Ashikaga were ranked above the Nitta, despite their being descended from a younger ancestor; since the ancestors of the Nitta did not fight alongside their Minamoto cousins in the Genpei War, they were never accorded power or prestige at Kamakura.\n\nIn 1331, after being ordered by the \"bakufu\" (shogunate) to join an army at the Chihaya fortress, Nitta was ordered by Prince Morinaga and Emperor Go-Daigo to strike at the Hōjō, so he left his post. Returning to his home province of Kozuke, Yoshisada rallied the aid of other descendants and vassals, including his brother Yoshisuke of the Minamoto clan, and began to march toward Kamakura through Musashi. On the approaches to the city, Nitta enjoyed some early victories, routing the Hōjō defenders and pursuing them towards the city.\nExcept for its coastline, Kamakura is surrounded by steep hills, making an overland attack difficult. Nitta first tried to enter through the Gokurakuji Pass and the Kewaizaka Pass, but strong Hōjō forces stopped him. Judging it impossible to enter by land, Nitta decided to try by sea, bypassing Inamuragasaki Cape on Sagami Bay, west of Kamakura. Once there, Nitta took advantage of a low tide and moved his men in through the beaches to the south, but according to the \"Taiheiki\", he threw his sword into the surf and prayed to Ryūjin, who parted the waters for him. In describing this event, Japanese sources say Nitta Yoshisada prayed to a sea-god or Ryūjin; English sources almost always refer to Sun Goddess Amaterasu. The \"Taiheiki\" (稲村崎成干潟事) says: He therefore speaks to Ryūjin who, he has heard, is a manifestation of Amaterasu.\n\nThe stele at , the tiny bay west of Inamuragaki, says: 666 years ago on May 21, 1333 Nitta Yoshisada, judging an invasion on land to be difficult, decided to try to bypass this cape. This is the place where, according to tradition, he threw his golden sword into the waves, praying the sea-god to withdraw them and let him pass. (Erected in 1917)\n\nThe city was taken, and the Hōjō clan's influence destroyed. Following the fall of Kamakura (and of the Hōjō regency), Yoshisada was appointed governor of Echigo and vice-governor of Harima and Kōzuke Provinces, as Emperor Go-Daigo redistributed the Hōjō lands.\n\nYoshisada courted a daughter of a court noble, Kōtō-Naishi (匂当内侍), and married her through the emperor's mediation.\n\nDuring the following few years, Nitta Yoshisada's rivalry with Ashikaga Takauji and his brother Ashikaga Tadayoshi came to a head, with an imperial commission to destroy the two brothers issued in 1335. The two armies fought a number of battles, starting at the Yahagi River on 10 December and ending at Mishima later that month. Yoshisada's forces were eventually defeated and the brothers advanced upon Kyoto.\n\nThe Takaujis were able to capture Kyoto for a few days in February 1336, before help arrived for Yoshisada and Kusunoki from Prince Norinaga and Prince Takanaga. In April 1336 Nitta attacked Akamatsu Norimura in Harima Province. He kept up the investment of Akamatsu's strongholds at Shirohata and Mitsuishi until June, when he retreated in the face of advances by Tadayoshi's army. Yoshisada was defeated in the Battle of Minatogawa allowing Takauji to occupy Kyoto once again.\n\nNitta retreated with the emperor to Hieizan. Eventually, on 13 November 1336, the emperor agreed with Takauji's offers to return to Kyoto. Before he did so, he entrusted Nitta with escorting Prince Takanaga and Prince Tsunenaga to Echizen Province. They made it as far as a loyalist stronghold, where they had to endure the Siege of Kanegasaki (1337) Nitta escaped to Somayama, but his son Nitta Yoshiaki and the princes were eventually killed.\n\nNitta's death was as remarkable as his life. While Nitta was fighting in the Siege of Kuromaru against Hosokawa Akiuji, an ally of Takauji, his horse was felled by arrow fire. Nitta, pinned under the dead horse and unable to move, was an easy target for archers. As a final act, Nitta is supposed to have drawn his short sword and cut off his own head. Record has it that a number of his fellow samurai committed \"junshi seppuku\" nearby, in a show of allegiance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879828", "title": "Wollongong Botanic Garden", "text": "Wollongong Botanic Garden\n\nThe Wollongong Botanic Garden is located in the Wollongong suburb of Keiraville at the foot of Mount Keira in New South Wales, Australia. It is the local botanical gardens of the Illawarra and was established in 1964. It was opened in September 1970.\n\nThe garden is co-located with the historic Gleniffer Brae house, used for functions and the Wollongong Conservatorium of Music.\n\nA number of annexes are managed by the garden - Puckeys Estate Reserve in Fairy Meadow, the Korrongulla Wetlands in Primbee and the Mount Keira Summit Park.\n\nThe garden features various themed areas, including a rose garden, herb garden, woodland garden, azalea bank, succulent plants and several rainforest areas divided into Illawarra rainforest, subtropical rainforest, dry rainforest and exotic rainforest. A creek runs through the garden and into a small lake. This creek joins Para Creek and runs into Puckeys Estate Reserve.\n\nThe azalea garden and succulent garden are both local attractions, and many tourists are seen taking pictures of the flowers. Local university students study plants here.\n\nOne of the better known attractions is the Japanese-style wooden bridge over the creek. It was built as a gift of friendship to symbolise the connection with Wollongong's sister city in Japan, Kawasaki and restored in the early 2000s. Another is the BHP fountain at the northern entrance facing the university. Its distinctive shape has put it on the local art tour.\n\nThe lake is a local attraction and features a boardwalk to a rotunda in the centre. It is inhabited by ducks and geese and seagulls frequent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879835", "title": "Trick Pony", "text": "Trick Pony\n\nTrick Pony was an American country music group, formed in 1999 by Heidi Newfield (lead vocals, acoustic guitar, harmonica), Keith Burns (lead guitar, vocals), and Ira Dean (bass guitar, upright bass, vocals). They recorded three studio albums: \"Trick Pony\", \"On a Mission\", and \"R.I.D.E.\", released in 2001, 2002, and 2005. These albums produced eight singles on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs chart, including four Top 20 hits: \"Pour Me\", \"On a Night like This\", \"Just What I Do\", and \"On a Mission\".\n\nIn 2006, Newfield departed for a solo career and Aubrey Collins stepped in on lead vocals for roughly six months. The group disbanded after Collins and Dean left in 2007 and 2008. Newfield released a solo debut album, \"What Am I Waiting For\", in 2008 on Curb Records, while Burns joined singer Michelle Poe to form a duo called Burns & Poe. Burns, Dean, and Newfield reformed the group in late 2013, although Dean left again in 2014. The revived lineup released one more album, \"Pony Up\", via Permian Records in 2016.\n\nTrick Pony was formed in 1996 by guitarist Keith Burns and bass guitarist Ira Dean. Both musicians had experience as backing musicians for other country music acts: Burns had previously worked with Joe Diffie, and Dean with Tanya Tucker. Keith and Ira decided to form a group composed of two men and a woman. Completing the lineup was lead singer Heidi Newfield, a friend of Burns's wife. The trio began touring throughout the Southern United States and performed regularly at 8 Seconds Saloon in Indianapolis, Indiana.\n\nBy 2000, Trick Pony was signed to a record deal with Warner Bros. Records. The trio released its self-titled debut album that year. Serving as its lead-off single was \"Pour Me\" which reached #12 on the \"Billboard\" country music chart. The album's next two singles were \"On a Night like This\" and \"Just What I Do\", which reached #4 and #13 on the country chart. In 2001, the trio also received the Artist of the Year award from the Country Music Association.\n\n\"On a Mission\" was the title of Trick Pony's second album. Although its David Lee Murphy-penned title track reached Top 20 on the country chart, the second single (2003's \"A Boy Like You\") failed to enter Top 40, and the group was dropped from Warner Bros.' roster shortly afterward.\n\nIn 2004, Trick Pony was signed to its second record deal, this time with Asylum-Curb Records. The group's sixth single overall, entitled \"The Bride\", was issued that year, serving as the lead-off to their third studio album, \"R.I.D.E.\", whose title is an abbreviation for \"Rebellious Individuals Delivering Entertainment\". The second single from \"R.I.D.E.\" was a cover of Bonnie Tyler's \"It's a Heartache\". Trick Pony's version of the song peaked at #22 on the country chart. The third single from \"R.I.D.E.\", \"Ain't Wastin' Good Whiskey on You\", featured guest vocals from Tracy Byrd, Joe Diffie, Mel Tillis, Tanya Tucker, and Darryl Worley.\n\nIn October 2006, lead singer Heidi Newfield announced that she would be leaving Trick Pony in pursuit of a solo career. She made her official departure at the end of the group's December 2006 tour. The same month, Gary Allan charted with \"A Feelin' Like That\", which Dean wrote with David Lee Murphy. Newfield began recording her first solo album for Asylum-Curb in June 2007. She made her solo debut on Cledus T. Judd's 2007 album \"Boogity, Boogity - A Tribute to the Comedic Genius of Ray Stevens\", on which she, Judd, and Keith Urban performed a cover of Ray Stevens's 1969 single \"Gitarzan\".\n\nAubrey Collins, a singer-songwriter from Littleton, Colorado. who had previously been eliminated from ABC's television program \"\", was chosen as Newfield's replacement in 2007. Collins made her official debut as lead singer in April of that year at the Country Thunder festival in Arizona. Collins left the group in October, saying that although she enjoyed working with the group's other two members, they \"had different creative and musical visions.\" Dean announced his departure in February 2008 and Trick Pony subsequently disbanded. In April 2009, Warner Bros. released \"The Best of Trick Pony\", a compilation composed of songs from the trio's first two albums.\n\nNewfield released her solo debut album, \"What Am I Waiting For\", via Curb Records in 2008. Burns, meanwhile, founded the duo Burns & Poe with former DreamWorks Records Nashville artist Michelle Poe. Dean began writing songs for other artists, including Montgomery Gentry's 2009 single \"One in Every Crowd\". In July 2011, he signed to a recording contract with Average Joes Entertainment.\n\nIn 2013, Trick Pony's original lineup reunited for a performance at a benefit concert in Boston, Massachusetts. In February 2014, the group announced plans to tour and release new music. The trio had finished several tracks for a new album before Dean left only two months later. In March 2015, he released a solo single, \"Nothin' to Do Round Here\", which he wrote with Jeffrey Steele and Shane Minor. The song features guest vocals from Steele, Ronnie Milsap, Lee Roy Parnell, Montgomery Gentry, and Colt Ford.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879843", "title": "Calgary (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Calgary (provincial electoral district)\n\nCalgary was a provincial electoral district in Alberta, Canada that existed from 1905 to 1913 and was recreated from 1921 to 1959. The district returned from one to six members to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta. The district largely encompassed the boundaries of the City of Calgary, and was revised accordingly as the city grew.\n\nThe first iteration of the Calgary provincial electoral district in Alberta was created in the 1905 provincial boundary distribution. The district was known in that first election as Calgary City. Prior to 1905 when Calgary was still part of the Northwest Territories there were two districts East Calgary and West Calgary, which were split from the original Calgary Northwest Territories district in 1894. Calgary district first came into existence when Calgary had a sufficiently large population to meet the requirements to elect members in the Northwest Territories in 1884.\n\nThe first election in the district was held with the provincial general election of 1905. The election saw Liberal Minister of Public Works William Cushing win election against Conservative leader Richard Bennett. Cushing was named to the Rutherford prior to the election.\n\nThe number of seats in Calgary was increased to two in 1909. In that election Bennett and Cushing both won election, each elector in Calgary had two votes to vote for each seat. Bennett resigned to run for federal office and a by-election was held in 1911 to replace him.\n\nThe district was abolished and broken up into three electoral districts in 1913. The riding's were South Calgary, Centre Calgary and North Calgary. In 1921 the Liberal government promised to bring in proportion representation. They did not and instead decided to combine the three Calgary districts and add two more seats. These changes resulted in the 1921 election being very chaotic in Calgary and marked by low turnout. Voters had the option of casting up to five votes and the top five candidates were elected by plurality. The top candidate was elected with less than 10% of the vote which stands as a provincial record for lowest election threshold.\n\nThe United Farmers of Alberta passed legislation in 1924 that changed both Edmonton and Calgary to Single Transferable Vote super districts. The rest of the province had single member constituencies that saw vote transfers conducted if the leading candidate did not have a clear majority of 50% on the first count—a system used as the Alternative Vote.\n\nThe 1926 and 1930 elections saw Calgary elect all opposition candidates because the United Farmers government decided not to field any candidates there. Under single transferable vote the number of spoiled ballots jumped sharply as a sizable number of electors continued marking ballots with an \"X\". The 1935 election saw Social Credit candidates sweep to power.\n\nBy the 1950s, Calgary and Edmonton had gone through significant growth. Returns in both cities would take days and become very complicated in terms of counting. The length in terms of names on the ballots was causing long lineups at polling stations, with electors taking as long as 15 minutes to mark their preferences.\n\nIn 1957 the Social Credit government passed legislation standardizing the electoral system to First Past the Post across the province. The government passed a separate redistribution bill that divided Calgary and Edmonton into single member districts. In Calgary those districts were Calgary West, Calgary Glenmore, Calgary Bowness, Calgary North East, Calgary South East, Calgary Centre and Calgary North. The last election held in the district, a by-election in 1957, was conducted under the first past the post method.\n\nThe Calgary electoral district was created when Alberta became a province independent of the Northwest Territories in 1905. Calgary had previously had two seats when it was represented in the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories. This change created controversy because Conservatives accused the Liberals of creating more seats in northern Alberta where their support and organization was stronger. The two riding's previously represented in the city were West Calgary and East Calgary.\n\nThe election was a three-way contest but was primarily a two-way race. Richard Bennett the Conservative candidate and party leader was a well known lawyer and former Northwest Territories MLA. William Henry Cushing the Liberal candidate had previously been a prominent Calgary municipal politician including serving as mayor. He also had a number of private enterprises in the building materials industry. Rounding out the field was labor activist and independent candidate Alex Macdonald.\n\nThe 1905 election was mired in controversy as election results see-sawed back and forth, claims of Conservative supporters being denied access to polling stations were made with supporters of Cushing having been found to run the polling stations. After the official results were released Cushing was declared the winner by 47 votes. Macdonald placed well behind in third place but still with a respectable showing taking close to 20% of the popular vote. The result in Calgary had been seen by the Conservatives as an embarrassing personal defeat for Bennett as the party got nearly shut out of office province wide. Bennett quickly resigned as leader and was replaced by Albert Robertson.\n\nThe 1909 Alberta general election saw a second seat added to the Calgary electoral district. The riding was not split however, instead the second member would be elected in a plurality vote with electors having the option of selecting up to two candidates on the ballots.\n\nThe Conservatives and Liberals ran a slate of two candidates each, while the Socialists fielded one. William Cushing Minister of Public works decided to run for a second term in office. The other Liberal candidate was prominent medical doctor William Egbert.\n\nThe Conservatives ran former party leader Richard Bennett who had previously contested the district in 1905 and Thomas Blow who was also a medical doctor rounded out the slate. Bennett was unanimously acclaimed at the party nominating convention held on March 1, 1909 despite not attending. The second spot on the slate was contested between Blow and J.A. Carson. The two candidates were left over from ten nominees who either had their nomination withdrawn for various reasons or the candidates themselves or refused to let their name stand.\n\nThe Socialist Party nominated candidate George Howell who worked as the secretary for the Calgary Trades and Labor council. Howell was a surprise choice by members at the Socialist nominating convention as he was not running for the party nomination.\n\nThe results of the election showed an even split between the Liberals and Conservatives. Each major candidate received approximately a quarter of the vote share. The party vote for both the Liberals and Conservatives split for each candidate in the slate. Overall the parties managed to gain in vote percentage that went to the Labor candidate in 1905. The Conservatives picked up one seat and the Liberal incumbent held his. The Socialist candidate was not much of a factor, but Howell kept the main parties from gaining a clear majority in the popular vote.\n\nNote:\n\n\nThe Canadian Labor Party Alberta branch nominated candidate Amelia Turner under their banner. The Co-operative Commonwealth executive decided to support and endorse her election campaign but did not nominate her as a candidate for the organization. Norman Hindsley ran as an Independent but was endorsed and supported by the Conservative party.\n\nCharles Jamieson was originally nominated as a Conservative candidate but left the party and changed to the People's Candidate banner midway through the election.\n\nNote:\n\nThe October 1957 by-election held on October 2, 1957 was the last election held in the Calgary electoral district before it was officially split in 1959. This was the first election province wide since Single Transferable Vote was implemented in 1924 that First Past the Post was put to use. The changes were implemented in 1956 in \"An Act Representing Members of the Legislative Assembly\".\n\nThe election was called after Progressive Conservative incumbent, Arthur Ryan Smith resigned to run in the 1957 Canadian federal election.\n\nFive candidates offered themselves in the election. Social Credit ran high-profile lawyer Samuel Helman. During the campaign Premier Ernest Manning promised to promote Helman to Attorney General as soon as he was elected to the district. The Progressive Conservatives ran lawyer Ernest Watkins, who had arrived from England in 1952. Rounding out the field was Frank Bodie who ran on a Labor banner. Liberal candidate Reginald McCollough and Independent Cliff Harris who was running in the election to protest Alberta's liquor laws in force at the time.\n\nThe election proved to be low turnout with 35% of 117,000 eligible voters casting ballots in the election. Advanced turnout was very quiet with just 148 votes being cast. Ernest Watkins won with 43% of the vote and held the seat for his party. The race turned out to be a primarily two-way race, with the other 3 candidates finishing well back.\n\nDistrict results from the province wide plebiscite on electricity regulation.\n\nOn October 30, 1957 a stand-alone plebiscite was held province wide in all 50 of the then current provincial electoral districts in Alberta. The government decided to consult Alberta voters to decide on liquor sales and mixed drinking after a divisive debate in the Legislature. The plebiscite was intended to deal with the growing demand for reforming antiquated liquor control laws.\n\nThe plebiscite was conducted in two parts. Question A asked in all districts, asked the voters if the sale of liquor should be expanded in Alberta, while Question B asked in a handful of districts within the corporate limits of Calgary and Edmonton asked if men and woman were allowed to drink together in establishments. Question B was slightly modified depending on which city the voters were in.\n\nProvince wide Question A of the plebiscite passed in 33 of the 50 districts while Question B passed in all five districts. Calgary voted overwhelmingly in favor of the plebiscite posting a super majority for the yes side. The district recorded a strong voter turnout, being well above the province wide average of 46%.\n\nCalgary also voted on question B1 to decide the issue of allowing men and women to drink together within the corporate limits of Calgary. Like question A, city residents also voted for mixed drinking with a super majority. Oddly question B1 experienced a slightly higher voter turnout than question A.\n\nOfficial district returns were released to the public on December 31, 1957. The Social Credit government in power at the time did not considered the results binding. However the results of the vote led the government to repeal all existing liquor legislation and introduce an entirely new \"Liquor Act\".\n\nMunicipal districts lying inside electoral districts that voted against the Plebiscite were designated Local Option Zones by the Alberta Liquor Control Board and considered effective dry zones, business owners that wanted a license had to petition for a binding municipal plebiscite in order to be granted a license.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879859", "title": "Nazi Punks Fuck Off", "text": "Nazi Punks Fuck Off\n\n\"Nazi Punks Fuck Off\" is the fifth single by the Dead Kennedys. It was released in 1981 on Alternative Tentacles with \"Moral Majority\" as the B-side. Both are from the \"In God We Trust, Inc.\" EP, although the EP version is a different recording from the single version. The single included a free armband with a crossed-out swastika. The design was later adopted as a symbol for the anti-racist punk movement Anti-Racist Action.\n\nThe English grindcore band Napalm Death recorded a cover of \"Nazi Punks Fuck Off\" for their 1993 EP of the same name. American Melodic death metal band Darkest Hour recorded a cover of the song for the 2007 album \"Kerrang! Higher Voltage\".\n\nIn the opening of the \"In God We Trust, Inc.\" version of \"Nazi Punks Fuck Off\", Biafra mentions English producer Martin Hannett, who had worked with Joy Division and Buzzcocks, accusing him, tongue-in-cheek, of having \"overproduced\" the recording. Hannett, in fact, did not work with the Dead Kennedys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879881", "title": "Bursa of Fabricius", "text": "Bursa of Fabricius\n\nIn birds, the bursa of Fabricius (Latin: \"Bursa cloacalis\" or \"Bursa fabricii\") is the site of hematopoiesis, a specialized organ that, as first demonstrated by Bruce Glick and later by Max Cooper and Robert Good, is necessary for B cell (part of the immune system) development in birds. Mammals generally do not have an equivalent organ; the bone marrow is often the site of both hematopoiesis and B cell development. The bursa is present in the cloaca of birds and is named after Hieronymus Fabricius, who described it in 1621.\n\nThe bursa is an epithelial and lymphoid organ that is found only in birds. The bursa develops as a Dorsal diverticulum of the proctadael region of the cloaca. The luminal (interior) surface of the bursa is plicated with as many as 15 primary and 7 secondary plicae or folds. These plicae have hundreds of bursal follicles containing follicle-associated epithelial cells, lymphocytes, macrophages, and plasma cells. Lymphoid stem cells migrate from the fetal liver to the bursa during ontogeny. In the bursa, these stem cells acquire the characteristics of mature, immunocompetent B cells\nThe bursa is active in young birds. It atrophies after about six months.\n\nIn 1956, Bruce Glick showed that removal of the bursa in newly hatched chicks severely impaired the ability of the adult birds to produce antibodies. In contrast, removal of the bursa in adult chickens has little effect on the immune system. This was a serendipitous discovery that came about when a fellow graduate, Timothy S. Chang, who was teaching a course on antibody production obtained chickens from Glick that had been bursectomised (removal of the bursa). When these chickens failed to produce antibody in response to an immunization with Staphylococcus bacteria, the two students realized that the bursa is necessary for antibody production. Their initial attempts to publish their findings were thwarted by an editor who commented that \"further elucidation of the mechanism ... should be attempted before publication.” \n\nThe role of the thymus in the immune response was also identified shortly after the discovery of bursa's role in antibody responses. In thymectomized animals, the ability to reject allografts, and to mount delayed hypersensitivity responses, was drastically reduced. By the mid-1960s, immunologists were convinced that there were indeed two separate arms of the immune system: one dealing exclusively with the production of circulating antibodies (humoral immunity), and another that is involved in the delayed hypersensitivity-type reactions and graft rejections (cell-mediated immunity).\n\nInfectious Bursal Disease (IBD) is a viral disease in poultry. Typically, the virus attacks the bursa of young birds, preventing development of the immune system.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879887", "title": "Meristotheca papulosa", "text": "Meristotheca papulosa\n\nMeristotheca papulosa (synonyms: \"M. japonica\" and \"Eucheuma papulosa\") is a red alga, popular as a sea vegetable in Taiwan, where it is known as jiguancai (, literally \"cockscomb vegetable\"), and in Japan, where it is known as tosaka-nori (), which can be prefixed with \"aka\" (red) so as to distinguish it from the \"ao\" (green) and \"shiro\" (white) varieties.\n\nThe plant tissue varies in color from red to peach, the texture is fleshy and cartilaginous, and the shape is flat and leaf-like, with irregular deep forking divisions. The edges often grow many branchlets of uneven lengths. The surfaces of older individuals will grow warty or spiky protuberances. The morphology is variable. Length can reach 10–40 cm, with a branch width of 1–5 cm. The interior of the algal body has multiple axes.\n\nIt has isomorphic alternation of generations (the sporophyte and the gametophyte share a very similar appearance). The tetrasporangia are divided in a ladder shape and scattered across the cortex. \n\nIt grows on subtidal rocks 5–20 metres deep, and can be seen at all times of the year.\n\nIt is very widely distributed along the coasts of the Indian Ocean from South Africa to Australia, and the western Pacific Ocean from Australia to Japan.\n"}
{"id": "1879894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879894", "title": "James Clay", "text": "James Clay\n\nJames Clay may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1879897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879897", "title": "Press-Telegram", "text": "Press-Telegram\n\nThe Press-Telegram is a paid daily newspaper published in Long Beach, California. Coverage area for the \"Press-Telegram\" includes Long Beach, Lakewood, Signal Hill, Artesia, Bellflower, Cerritos, Compton, Downey, Hawaiian Gardens, Lynwood, Norwalk and Paramount.\n\nThe \"Press-Telegram\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s precursor, the \"Press\", was first published in 1897. The \"Press\" was purchased in the early 20th century by Charles H. Prisk and William F. Prisk, Charles being the owner and William the editor and publisher. Sometime after 1918 the \"Press\" was merged with another paper, the \"Daily Telegram\"; the combined paper was first published under the name \"Daily Press\" then, from 1924, the \"Press-Telegram\".\n\nOn September 30, 1933, the \"Press-Telegram\" published what David Dayen called \"One of the more influential letters to the editor in American history\": Francis Townsend's letter outlining the Townsend Plan, a proposal that sparked a national campaign which influenced the establishment of the Roosevelt administration's Social Security system.\n\nIn 1952, the \"Independent\" (founded in 1938) was merged into the \"Press-Telegram\", creating the \"Independent-Press-Telegram\" with the \"Independent\" being the paper's morning edition and the \"Press-Telegram\" the evening edition. The \"Independent\" was discontinued in 1981, leaving only the \"Press-Telegram\" (now published in the morning) as the paper's only edition.\n\nThe paper was owned by Ridder Publications and its successor Knight Ridder from 1952 to 1997, when it was acquired by its current owner, the Los Angeles Newspaper Group (then a division of newspaper conglomerate MediaNews Group). In 2013, MediaNews Group and 21st Century Media merged into Digital First Media.\n\nAn online version of the paper began web publication in 1995. In 2011, the paper eliminated its sports, photography, and features departments. Some of the eliminated positions were picked up by the \"Torrance Daily Breeze\", another Los Angeles Newspaper Group paper.\n\nThe paper's longtime home, the Press-Telegram building at 6th Street and Pine Avenue, was sold late 2006 to real estate developers intending to convert the property into condominiums. The paper's operations were moved to the Arco Center in downtown Long Beach. The building at 6th Street and Pine Avenue in downtown Long Beach occupied nearly the entire block, and at one time encompassed the entire production of the paper, including the presses, which were formerly visible behind glass windows at street level. The old building on Pine Avenue was eventually acquired and redeveloped by Molina Healthcare. The paper is currently located at 5225 E. Second St., Suite 400\nLong Beach, CA 90803.\n\nFor the 2016 presidential election, the paper chose to endorse no candidate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879905", "title": "Eddie Nash", "text": "Eddie Nash\n\nEddie Nash (April 3, 1929 - August 9, 2014) was a Palestinian-born Los Angeles nightclub owner and restaurateur, as well as a convicted money launderer and drug dealer. Nash is best known as the alleged mastermind of the Wonderland Murders.\n\nNash was born Adel Gharib Nasrallah in British Palestine. His family were Orthodox Christian Palestinians from the city of Ramallah, just outside Jerusalem. Before the creation of Israel in 1948, Nash's family owned 48 hotels. He later told a friend he spent time in a refugee camp and fled the country after Israel Defense Forces soldiers gunned down his brother-in-law. In the early 1950s, Nash emigrated to the United States with only $7.\nHe briefly found work as an actor and stuntman, and was an expert horseman. In 1952, he appeared in a small role as a character named \"Nash\" in an episode of the Western series \"The Cisco Kid\".\n\nIn the 1960s, Nash opened a hot dog stand called Beef's Chuck on Hollywood Boulevard. By the 1970s, Nash owned several nightclubs and restaurants in Los Angeles, such as the P.J.'s club (shortly afterward renamed Starwood) in West Hollywood, the Soul'd Out club in Hollywood, the Odyssey disco, the Paradise Ballroom, the Seven Seas, Ali Baba's, and The Kit Kat strip club. Nash's clubs attracted diverse groups, as he operated clubs marketed towards gays, straights, teenagers, African Americans, and other target audiences.\n\nNash was most notorious for his alleged involvement in the quadruple Wonderland Murders in 1981, the possible retaliation for a robbery of Nash's home perpetrated two days earlier by three to five men. A key player in the incident, adult film performer John C. Holmes, was later acquitted of the murders.\nNash and Holmes were well acquainted with each other; Nash enjoyed introducing his countless houseguests to Holmes, who was infamous for playing the X-rated movie character \"Johnny Wadd.\"\n\nHowever, by 1981, Holmes had become desperately addicted to freebasing cocaine, and as a result, his career had declined due to chronic impotence. In order to settle a substantial debt to drug kingpin Ron Launius, leader of the widely feared Wonderland Gang which dominated the Los Angeles cocaine trade, Holmes helped the group plan the invasion. Holmes went to Nash's home on the morning of the attack to leave a sliding door unlocked so the Gang could enter the home. On June 29, 1981, the Wonderland Gang entered into Nash's home via the unlocked sliding door, held Nash and his bodyguard at gunpoint, and stole Nash's drugs, jewelry and money. At one point, one of the Wonderland Gang's member's guns went off, grazing Nash's bodyguard's face. Nash was then made to beg for life on his knees, an act that he found humiliating. Nash quickly suspected John Holmes was involved in the robbery as he had been at Nash's home the morning of the robbery. The following day, a friend of Nash's confirmed his suspicions after telling him he had seen Holmes wearing some of his stolen jewelry.\n\nOn July 1, two days after Nash was robbed, Ron Launius, Billy Deverell, Joy Audrey Gold Miller, and Barbara Richardson were found bludgeoned to death at their home at 8763 Wonderland Avenue in Laurel Canyon, Los Angeles. Susan Launius, Ron's wife, was critically injured but survived. \nOfficials from the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) remarked that the Wonderland Murders were particularly brutal, noting that the crime scene was bloodier than the Tate-LaBianca murders.\n\nNash was believed to have planned the murders that were committed by three of his henchman. Nash planned to kill John Holmes but later decided to spare Holmes' life and use the Wonderland murders to \"teach Holmes a lesson\". Holmes later told his first wife, Sharon, he was forced to accompany three gunmen to the Wonderland Avenue home. He claimed he was then held at gunpoint and forced to watch the quadruple murders. While police believe Holmes likely took part in the murders, Holmes would maintain that he never killed anyone.\n\nA police search of Nash's home days after the murders revealed a large amount of cocaine. Nash was sentenced to eight years in prison, but a judge released him after just two, purportedly due to Nash's poor health. An associate of Nash later admitted that they had bribed the judge with about $100,000.\n\nIn 1990, Nash was tried in state court for having planned the murders; the trial resulted in an 11-1 hung jury. Nash would later admit that he had bribed the lone holdout, a young woman, with $50,000. The retrial ended in an acquittal.\n\nAccording to John Holmes' second wife Laurie (known as Misty Dawn), in a \"Playboy\" magazine interview, \"He [Eddie Nash] was an awful man... John told me he used to leave the bathrooms without toilet paper, then offer the young women cocaine if they'd lick his ass clean.\"\n\nThroughout the 1990s, law enforcement figures continued to hound Nash, who had been referred to in various print media as \"the one who got away\". In 1995, in a broad series of raids targeting alleged organized crime figures, federal agents armed with search warrants raided Nash's house and confiscated what was thought to be a cache of methamphetamine. To the chagrin of law enforcement, the \"meth\" turned out to be a cache of mothballs, and no charges were filed against Nash.\n\nIn 2000, after a four-year joint investigation involving local and federal authorities, Nash was arrested and indicted on federal charges under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) for running a drug trafficking and money laundering operation, conspiring to carry out the Wonderland Murders, and bribing one of the jurors of his first trial. Nash, by this point in his seventies, and suffering from emphysema and several other ailments, agreed to a plea bargain agreement in September 2001, pleading guilty to RICO charges and to money laundering. He also admitted to jury tampering (for which the statute of limitations had run out) and to having ordered his associates to retrieve stolen property from the Wonderland house, which might have resulted in violence including murder, but he denied having planned the murders that occurred. He also agreed to cooperate with law enforcement authorities. In exchange, he received a four-and-a-half year prison sentence (including time already served) and a $250,000 fine.\n\nOn September 6 or 7, 1984, Nash's former lover Maureen Bautista and her son Telesforo were stabbed to death by Hells Angels biker Robert Frederick Garceau.\nGarceau was turned in to the police after he murdered Greg Rambo, who had helped him dispose of the Bautistas' bodies. Rambo's wife, Susan, knew of the Bautista murders and talked to the police under an agreement of immunity.\n\nDuring the trial, Susan Rambo testified that Harlyn Codd had told her Nash was Telesforo's father, and that Nash once had paid Garceau to fulfill a contract but that Garceau had failed to perform and, as a result, Nash was \"looking for\" Garceau. At trial, evidence was presented that Garceau murdered Bautista because she threatened to expose Garceau's drug operations to Nash, and Garceau killed her son because Telesforo had witnessed Bautista's murder. Garceau was convicted of all three murders and sentenced to death.\n\nA lengthy court appeal of Garceau's death sentence was begun, but in 1993 the California Supreme Court upheld the legality of what became known as \"The Nash testimony.\" Garceau died from cancer on San Quentin's death row on December 29, 2004.\n\nOn August 9, 2014, Nash died at the age of 85. He is interred at Holy Cross Cemetery, Culver City in Culver City.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879913", "title": "Fedorov Avtomat", "text": "Fedorov Avtomat\n\nThe Fedorov Avtomat (also anglicized as Federov, Russian: Автомат Фёдорова) or FA was a select-fire, crew-served automatic rifle and also world's first operational automatic rifle, designed by Vladimir Grigoryevich Fyodorov in 1915 and produced in the Russian Empire and later in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic. A total of 3,200 Fedorov rifles were manufactured between 1915 and 1924 in the city of Kovrov; the vast majority of them were made after 1920. The weapon saw limited combat in World War I, but was used more substantially in the Russian Civil War and in the Winter War. Some consider it to be an \"early predecessor\" or \"ancestor\" to the modern assault rifle.\n\nThe Fedorov Avtomat is a short-recoil operated, locked-breech weapon which fires from a closed bolt. The bolt locking is achieved by a pair of symmetrical plates mounted to either side of the breech and held in place by a sheet metal cover, each with two lugs, one square and one round, mounted at either side of the breech, latching barrel and bolt together through recesses on the bolt. Those plates are allowed to tilt slightly down after about 10 mm of free recoil, unlocking the bolt. A bolt hold-open device is fitted and the firing mechanism is of hammer type.\n\nCaptain V. Fedorov began a prototype of a semi-automatic rifle in 1906, working with future small arms designer Vasily Degtyaryov as his assistant. A model was submitted to the Rifle Commission of the Russian army in 1911, which eventually ordered 150 more rifles for testing. In 1913, Fedorov submitted a prototype automatic rifle with a stripper clip-fed fixed magazine, chambered for his own experimental rimless 6.5 mm cartridge, called the 6.5mm Fedorov. This new rimless ammunition was more compact than the rimmed Russian 7.62×54mmR, better suited for automatic weapons and produced less recoil, however, the round was prone to occasional jamming. When fired from an 800 mm barrel, this experimental cartridge propelled a pointed jacketed bullet weighing 8.5 grams at an initial velocity of 860 m/s with a muzzle energy of 3,140 J as opposed to the 3,550 J muzzle energy of 7.62×54mmR ammunition from a barrel of the same length. 6.5 mm Fedorov rifles were tested late in 1913 with somewhat favorable results.\n\nIn the autumn of 1915, Fedorov was posted as a military observer to France, in the Mont-Saint-Éloi sector. Here he was impressed by the ubiquity of the French Chauchat and by the firepower it brought, but less so about its mobility. According to Fedorov's memoirs, it is here he came up with the idea of introducing into Russian service a weapon with firepower intermediate between the rifle and the light machine gun, but with mobility comparable to a rifle. His decision to adapt his semi-automatic rifle design for this purpose was one of wartime expediency. Fedorov set to the task upon his return to Russia in January 1916. He retained the mechanism of his semi-automatic rifle, with the major addition of a selective fire switch. The fixed magazine was replaced by a curved 25-round detachable box magazine. Due to limited trial nature of its production, most of its parts were custom fitted and not interchangeable, including the magazine. Therefore, in practice, the Fedorov was issued to the troops with only one magazine, which would be reloaded through the breech via standard 5-round Arisaka stripper clips.\n\nProduction of the new cartridge was out of question so it was decided to convert 6.5 mm Fedorov rifles to use the Japanese 6.5×50mmSR Arisaka ammunition which was in abundance, having been purchased from Japan and Great Britain along with Arisaka rifles. (About 763,000 Arisaka-type rifles were imported to Russia, along with approximately 400 million cartridges for them; domestic production of the Arisaka cartridge remained insignificant though.) The change of ammunition involved only minimal changes to the rifle, including a chamber insert and a new range scale for the rear sights. The somewhat less powerful Japanese cartridge meant that the muzzle velocity was only about 654–660 m/s because of constrained barrel length.\n\nA US Army analysis from the early 1950s considered that the Fedorov Avtomat was unreasonably complex to manufacture and that it suffered from rapid overheating of the barrel on automatic fire. Russian tests indicated that the gun could fire about 300 rounds continuously before heat buildup rendered it inoperable. This was still an improvement compared to the Mosin–Nagant M1891 rifles, which would begin to smolder after 100 rounds. The main factor in the increased heat dissipation was the metal shroud over the barrel at the end of the forearm, which acted as a radiator. In terms of accuracy, Russian data indicates that when fired in short bursts the Fedorov Avtomat could reliably hit targets having a profile of 0.6×0.5 m at a distance of 200 m. At 400 m the dispersion increased to 1.1×0.9 m and at 800 m it was 2.1×1.85 m. Consequently, burst fire was only considered effective up to about 500 m.\n\nIn 1916, the Weapons Committee of the Russian Army decided to order no less than 25,000 Fedorov automatic rifles. In the summer of 1916, a company from the 189th Izmail Regiment was equipped with eight Fedorov Avtomats. Trained in tactics with the new weapon, they concluded that the Fedorov worked best as a crew-served weapon: the gunner armed with the Fedorov, and an ammo bearer armed with an Arisaka rifle. As both weapons used the same ammo and same 5-round stripper clips, this allowed for the greatest flexibility. It also allowed for the ammo bearer to fire defensively, while the gunner reloaded. It was also recommended that the primary mode of fire be in semi-automatic, as the Fedorov would rapidly overheat in full-auto. After completing their training, the company was deployed to the Romanian front in early 1917. It was supposed to report back valuable combat experience with the new weapon, but this did not happen because the company disintegrated during the Kerensky Offensive. About 10 other Avtomats were given to the Russian naval aviation; Grand Duke Alexander Mikhailovich of Russia telegraphed back that his pilots found it more suitable than the Chauchat in light aircraft.\n\nIn early 1917, the order for Fedorov rifles was limited to 5,000 weapons. However, only about 100 Fedorov Avtomats had been produced before the collapse of the Russian Empire in 1917, when production was halted. The gun's cost estimated in 1918 was 1,090 rubles; in comparison the cost of a Madsen light machine gun was around 1,730 rubles at that time.\nIn 1920, Lev Kamenev found the Fedorov Avtomat to be a promising design and authorized a limited production run. The Avtomat was used to equip Red Army units in the Karelian sector during the Karelian Uprising, particularly the ski battalion of Toivo Antikainen. Reports from combat experiences with the gun during 1921–1922 were very positive as long as spare parts were available. In 1923, 10,000 copies of a 46-page manual for the gun were printed.\n\nDespite some noted reliability issues and performance issues, the Fedorov Avtomat was deemed acceptable for Red Army use in a 1924 review. However, due to supply problems, Soviet leaders decided to abandon all weapons using foreign ammunition. As a consequence, production of the Fedorov Avtomat was halted in October 1925. Only 3,200 Fedorovs were manufactured between 1915 and 1925.\n\nAt the time of its use, the Fedorov Avtomat was one of only three practical fully automatic rifles in service, the other two being the American Browning Automatic Rifle and the French CSRG M1915. Although these alternative rifles were initially intended for mobile assault fire, both models became more or less exclusively used as stationary light machine guns due to their higher weight and caliber. However, the lighter, lower recoil Fedorov Avtomat, which was less than half the weight of the BAR and CSRG, retained a unique niche role as a mobile assault rifle. Despite this pioneering status, the Fedorov Avtomat was not without its flaws, and was notoriously difficult to clean, maintain, and repair.\n\nAfter 1925, the rifle was withdrawn from service and put in storage; the last unit to give it up was the Moscow Proletariat Red Banner Rifle Division in 1928. During the 1939–1940 Soviet–Finnish war, an acute lack of individual automatic weapons led to the reintroduction of the stockpiled Fedorovs into service. They were sent to the Karelian front, mostly to military intelligence units. It is presumed that most of the Fedorov Avtomats were expended or destroyed during that war.\n\nInitially Fedorov wanted to call the class of weapons to which his new gun belonged ручное ружьё-пулемет (lit. \"handheld light-machine-gun\", i.e. a lighter class than ружьё-пулемет which denoted light machine guns like the Madsen), which reflected his tactical thinking behind the development of the weapon. This designation appeared in a September 1916 article in the journal of the Artillery Commission. Fedorov's superior, General N.M. Filatov, is credited for introducing the much shorter term \"avtomat\" for the gun—a neologism derived from the Greek word 'automaton' and synonymous with the English word \"automatic\", this is the one that stuck. Written records of this new term being applied to the gun date to 1919.\n\nIn contemporary Russian terminology, the word \"avtomat\" denotes assault rifle, although historically the term has had a broader meaning. Contemporary Western writers have struggled to classify the Fedorov Avtomat. Some consider it to be an \"early predecessor\" or \"ancestor\" to the modern assault rifle, while others believe that the Fedorov Avtomat was the world's first assault rifle. The dispute centers on whether the cartridge, which was \"one of the least powerful rifle-caliber cartridges then in use\", counts as a full-power or intermediate-power cartridge. Still other writers argue that the Cei-Rigotti (which predates the Fedorov by 20 years) was the world's first assault rifle because it was also select-fire and chambered for an intermediate-power cartridge; however, its 25-round magazine was fed by stripper clips rather than being detachable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879914", "title": "Mary Harrison", "text": "Mary Harrison\n\nMary Harrison may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1879916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879916", "title": "Mary Lord", "text": "Mary Lord\n\nMary Lord may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1879923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879923", "title": "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (TV series)", "text": "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (TV series)\n\nThe Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a BBC television adaptation of Douglas Adams's \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" which was broadcast in January and February 1981 on UK television station BBC Two. The adaptation follows the original radio series in 1978 and 1980, the first novel and double LP, in 1979, and the stage shows, in 1979 and 1980, making it the fifth iteration of the guide.\n\nThe series stars Simon Jones as Arthur Dent, David Dixon as Ford Prefect, Mark Wing-Davey as Zaphod Beeblebrox, Sandra Dickinson as Trillian and Stephen Moore as the voice of Marvin. The voice of the guide is by Peter Jones. Simon Jones, Peter Jones, Stephen Moore and Mark Wing-Davey had already provided the voices for their characters in the original radio series in 1978/80. In addition, the series features a number of notable cameo roles, including Adams himself on several occasions.\n\nAlthough initially thought by BBC executives to be unfilmable, the series was successfully produced and directed by Alan J. W. Bell and went on to win a Royal Television Society Award as Most Original Programme of 1981, as well as several British Academy Television Awards for its graphics and editing.\n\nAfter the success of the first seven episodes of the radio series, all broadcast in 1978, and while the second radio series was being recorded, Douglas Adams was commissioned to deliver a pilot script for a television adaptation on 29 May 1979, to be delivered by 1 August. A fully animated version was briefly discussed in the autumn of 1978, but it was eventually decided to make most of the series feature \"live action\" and only animate \"The Guide\"'s entries. John Lloyd, who had worked with Adams on the first radio series, is credited with starting the process of adapting the series for television, after the receipt of the pilot script, with a memo to the head of light entertainment (John Howard Davies) in September 1979. Adams was still working on scripts for the second radio series of \"Hitchhiker's\" and working as script editor for \"Doctor Who\", and thus the BBC extended the deadline for the pilot script of the television adaptation to the end of November. The script for the pilot was delivered in December 1979, and terms for the five remaining scripts were agreed upon in January 1980. While there was some resistance to a project considered \"unfilmable,\" Alan J. W. Bell was given the duties to produce and direct the TV adaptation. John Lloyd was signed as associate producer.\nIn early 1980, production on the pilot episode began on several fronts. Rod Lord of Pearce Animation Studios directed a 50-second pilot, hand-animated, giving a 'computer graphic' feel to the Babel Fish speech of the first episode. Douglas Adams and Alan J.W. Bell were both pleased with the animation, and Lord was given the go-ahead to do all of the animation for episode one, and subsequently the complete TV series. Narration for the first episode was recorded by Peter Jones in March 1980. The filming of two green-skinned aliens reacting to Pan Galactic Gargle Blasters was done on 8 May 1980. Further filming of crowd reactions to the Vogons, location filming of Arthur's house and a scene in a pub were done between 11 and 16 May 1980. Scenes aboard the Vogon ship were recorded on 7 June 1980, in the BBC's TC1 studio. The final edit of the pilot episode was completed on 2 July 1980, and it was premiered for a test audience three days later (5 July 1980). Further test screenings were held in August 1980. Based on successful test screenings, the cast was reassembled to complete the six episodes of the series in September 1980. Production continued through the autumn, with filming and recording occurring out of order. Recording and production of the final episode continued into January 1981.\n\nThe gap in production made for some continuity problems between the pilot episode and the remainder. Notably, Simon Jones's hair was cut short for another role and he wears a noticeable hairpiece in later episodes. Conversely, David Dixon's hair appears longer.\n\nOne major change first appeared in the stage show and LP adaptations, and made its way into the novels and TV adaptation. Nearly all of the sequences from episodes five and six in the first radio series that were originally co-written with John Lloyd were completely cut. Thus the Hotblack Desiato character and Disaster Area make appearances in TV episode five, and Ford, Arthur, Zaphod and Trillian are all randomly teleported off of Disaster Area's stunt ship in TV episode six. Lloyd does receive a co-writer's credit on episode five, for the material on the statistics about the universe.\n\nThe complexities of adapting the material for television meant that some episodes became as long as 35 minutes; as a result, material that had appeared in the radio series (e.g.: the seance involving Zaphod's ancestors) had to be cut. The programme is particularly notable for its mock computer animation sequences, actually produced on film using traditional cel animation techniques.\n\nThere have been several different edits of the series: Some, but not all, American PBS stations recut the series into seven 30-minute episodes when they began transmitting the episodes nearly two years later, in December 1982. Other PBS stations re-edited the programme into TV movies, broadcasting more than one episode at a time without interruption. The UK videotape release was on two cassettes, each consisting of three episodes edited to run together and also adding some previously unseen material. The soundtrack was remixed into stereo. The North American VHS tape released by CBS/Fox Video included this material on a single video cassette. The DVD edition claims to be the final and definitive version of the six TV episodes.\nAnother production problem was that, being a visual adaptation, a solution had to be found to display Zaphod's three arms and two heads, a joke originally written for radio. In a previous stage adaptation, a version of a pantomime horse was used, where two actors filled one costume, providing three arms and two heads between them. For this TV series, a radio-controlled animatronic head was designed and built, incorporating twelve servo motors and two receivers. However, the head was notoriously unreliable and in many scenes merely sits there, inanimate. For the third arm, most of the time it was seen tucked into Zaphod's jacket. But when called for, Mike Kelt, who had designed the extra head (with Joan Stribling; BBC Make-up, Hair, Prosthetics Designer) would hide behind Mark Wing-Davey and slip his arm into the appropriate sleeve.\n\nOther elements to the production were done by a variety of BBC designers. The Heart of Gold and B Ark models were built by Perry Brahan. The small, furry creature from Alpha Centauri in episode three was a puppet designed and controlled by Jim Francis, who also built the Magrathean bubble car (also seen in episode three), and was the stunt double for Richard Vernon in the scene in which the bubble car was seen to fly. Matte paintings throughout the series were created by Jean Peyre. Music and sound effects were by Paddy Kingsland, with the exception of the theme music; the familiar \"Journey of the Sorcerer\" theme by Bernie Leadon was used again, in the arrangement by Tim Souster that had previously been used for the \"Hitchhiker's\" LP. Video effects using the Quantel system were done by Dave Jervis. Other puppets, including insects seen in episode five, were designed by Susan Moore. Some of the actual puppeteering was done by Stuart Murdoch, including operating parts of the Dish of the Day animal.\n\nTwo important cast changes were made for the TV version. David Dixon replaced Geoffrey McGivern as Ford, and Sandra Dickinson replaced Susan Sheridan as Trillian. The changes were made because McGivern did not suit the role visually, and Sheridan was unavailable at the time. Another new cast member was Michael Cule, who appears as the Vogon Guard in episode two. Cule had first appeared in one of the \"Hitchhiker's\" stage adaptations, performing no fewer than twelve roles. He reprised the Vogon Guard part in the 1992 \"Making of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" TV documentary, voiced the Babel fish, appeared in the 1994 photo illustrated edition of the book (as Prosser), and returned a third time as a Vogon Guard for the BBC Radio 4 \"Quandary Phase.\"\n\nBecause of the sheer number of models used in episodes two to six, a single day of filming just the model sequences was set aside at the BBC Television Centre on 28 October 1980. This has been described as \"a luxury few other shows could afford.\"\nTo provide proper timing of spoken lines on-set, Douglas Adams himself spoke the lines of Eddie the Computer and Deep Thought, until they were redubbed by David Tate and Valentine Dyall respectively. Douglas Adams has several cameo appearances in the TV series:\n\nThe hand-animated \"computer graphics\" of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide\" itself won a BAFTA, a Design and Art Direction Silver award, and a London Film Fest award.\n\nThe spaceman, suspended from a wire, in the opening title sequence was Alan Harris.\n\nLocations for filming included a clay pit and the former Par—Fowey railway tunnel in Cornwall, the Edmonds Farm and Red Lion pub in Haywards Heath, Sussex, the Budgemoor Golf & Country Club near Henley-on-Thames, and at Dovestones in the Peak District National Park.\nEpisode three was originally scripted to have a \"pre-credits sequence\" where Trillian announces their arrival at \"the most improbable planet that ever existed\", Magrathea, to Zaphod. This was never filmed. The arrangement of \"Journey of the Sorcerer\" by Tim Souster, used in the titles, was released as a single in the UK in January 1981. The B-side featured Douglas Adams playing rhythm guitar.\n\nMany of the costumes seen in episodes one to four can be seen again during sequences at Milliway's in episode five. In episode five the writing at the start showing 42 crossed out several times also includes the number 101010 which is the 42nd number in the binary number base.\n\nFirst broadcast: 5 January 1981\n\nSynopsis: Episode one begins with a pre-credits sequence, the only one of the TV episodes to have one. A countdown to the end of the world is displayed through animation, and the narrator begins telling the story of the Guide and Arthur Dent's connection to it as the sun rises over the English countryside for the final time. Arthur wakes, discovers the threat to his house from a yellow bulldozer by looking out the window, and the camera pulls back to the titles. This episode closely follows the plot and dialogue of the first episode of the radio series, cutting the speech by Lady Cynthia Fitzmelton. It ends at a slightly earlier point than the radio episode, after Ford's line \"he might want to read us some of his poetry first\", and on a cliffhanger that Arthur and Ford are about to be discovered in a Vogon storeroom, but before the Vogon poetry is actually read.\n\nCast (in order of appearance):\n\nFirst broadcast: 12 January 1981\nSynopsis: The episode opens with a recap of the story, with Ford and Arthur about to be captured. After being read Vogon poetry, they are thrown out of an airlock and improbably rescued by the starship \"Heart of Gold\", which has been stolen by Ford's semi-cousin Zaphod Beeblebrox, accompanied by Trillian, a young woman who Arthur once met at a party. Ford and Arthur are escorted to the bridge by Marvin the Paranoid Android and meet Zaphod and Trillian. The episode ends after they are introduced, with no cliffhanger.\n\nCast (in order of appearance):\n\nFirst broadcast: 19 January 1981\n\nSynopsis: The episode opens with a guide entry explaining the legendary planet of Magrathea, which manufactured planets millions of years ago, until the galactic economy collapsed. Zaphod has been explaining to Ford that he has found the legendary planet of Magrathea, whilst Trillian tends to a pair of white mice. Zaphod orders the computer to land on the planet surface. Before long, they receive a transmission from the commercial council of Magrathea, informing them that the planet is closed for business and asking them to leave. They ignore this and later receive another message, noting that nuclear missiles have been sent at the ship. Attempts to evade the missiles fail, and Arthur uses the ship's infinite improbability drive, which ends up turning the missiles into a very surprised looking whale and a bowl of petunias. Trillian discovers that during the chaos, her mice escaped. The five characters go onto the surface, where they find it desolate. Zaphod suggests that the Magratheans lived beneath the surface of the planet. They split into two groups – Trillian, Zaphod and Ford explore a tunnel, while Arthur and Marvin remain on the surface. Trillian, Zaphod and Ford's thread ends on a cliffhanger, with them seeing something alarming at the end of the corridor. Meanwhile, Arthur and Marvin watch the sunset. Eventually, Slartibartfast arrives, and asks Arthur to come with him. He explains that the Magratheans were in hibernation for the last five million years. They get into his air-car, and descend deep into a tunnel. A guide narrative intervenes, explaining that while humanity had always assumed that it was the most intelligent species on Earth, in fact the dolphins were more intelligent, and had left the planet some time before. However, both the dolphins and humans were less intelligent than the mice. Meanwhile, Slartibartfast shows Arthur the vast tract of hyperspace that acts as the Magrathean's factory floor, and that they have been brought out of hibernation for a special commission — \"the Earth Mk II, we're making a copy from our original blueprints\". The Earth was originally made by Magrathea for mice; and it was destroyed five minutes too early. The episode ends here.\n\nCast (in order of appearance):\n\nFirst broadcast: 26 January 1981\n\nSynopsis: Slartibartfast shows Arthur the archive tapes of Deep Thought being given the Search for the Ultimate Answer and of the result reported by the computer seven and a half million years later. After learning that the Earth was set up to search for the Ultimate Question, Slartibartfast and Arthur join Ford, Trillian, Zaphod, and Trillian's mice, who had guided them to Magrathea. The mice dismiss Slartibartfast, then express their desire to determine the Ultimate Question by first extracting Arthur's brain. While the mice attempt to strike a deal, the galactic police arrive, and Ford, Arthur, Trillian and Zaphod flee the dining hall, only to be cornered by the police in a large bay. After a misunderstanding, the police open fire on a computer behind which the four are hiding, causing it to explode and ending the episode on a cliffhanger.\n\nCast (in order of appearance):\n\nFirst broadcast: 2 February 1981\n\nSynopsis: After an initial period of confusion, the four travellers find they have been transported forward in time to just before the end of the universe. They are in \"Milliways, the Restaurant at the End of the Universe\", which was built on the ruins of Magrathea. So, as Arthur says, they have travelled through time but not through space. Waiting for them is Marvin the depressed robot, whom they left on Magrathea 40 million years ago. He's now an attendant at the car park, and still depressed. Just before the universe ends, Zaphod and Ford get Marvin to help them steal a supercool all-black spaceship, which turns out to be the property of a very loud rock band called \"Disaster Area\". The episode ends on the cliffhanger as the black ship is about to start a dive into the sun of Kakrafoon.\n\nCast (in order of appearance):\n\nFirst broadcast: 9 February 1981\n\nSynopsis: Just before the supercool all-black ship crashes into a sun, Zaphod, Trillian, Ford, and Arthur escape in a teleport module that they convince Marvin to stay behind and operate. He is still on the ship when it heads into the sun. Ford and Arthur arrive - without Zaphod and Trillian - on a spaceship carrying millions of people in cryogenic pods. The ship's inhabitants are from Golgafrincham; they are unskilled workers in apparently pointless jobs, the people that the clever Golgafrinchams, the thinkers and the doers, back home wanted to get rid of. The ship lands on pre-historic Earth. Ford realises that the Golgafrinchams, not the primitive cave dwellers already on the planet, are the ones that will evolve into the human race. The episode ends with the two friends lamenting the eventual destruction of the Earth. The regular theme music follows the song \"What a Wonderful World\" by Louis Armstrong.\n\nCast (in order of appearance):\n\n\nA second series was planned at one point, with a storyline, according to Alan Bell and Mark Wing-Davey, that would have come from Adams' abandoned \"Doctor Who and the Krikkitmen\" project (instead of a TV version of the second radio series). However, Adams got into disputes with the BBC (accounts differ: problems with budget, scripts, and having Alan Bell and/or Geoffrey Perkins involved were all offered as causes), and the second series was never made. The elements of the \"Doctor Who and the Krikketmen\" project instead became the third novel, \"Life, the Universe and Everything\".\n\nIn 1992, Kevin Davies wrote and directed a documentary entitled \"The Making of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.\" Davies had previously worked on the stage show at the Rainbow Theatre, and, while working for Pierce Animation Studios in 1980, had introduced Alan Bell to Rod Lord, leading to the animation for the TV series. For the documentary, Davies used many photographs and home movies he shot during the 1980 production of the series and recorded new interviews in October 1992 with the cast and crew. New footage of Simon Jones, David Dixon and Michael Cule, in character, were shot at the farm in Sussex used as Arthur Dent's house, and incorporated into the documentary with some references to \"So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish\", such as Arthur finding his home intact, and placing his (animated) Babel fish into a goldfish bowl. BBC video released the sixty-minute documentary on VHS in 1993. Footage not included in the original documentary was included in the 2002 DVD release of the series. The documentary itself has not (as of 2005) been transmitted on TV.\n\nNeil Gaiman reveals in the first edition of his biography of Douglas Adams, \"Don't Panic\", that the BBC was preparing a Laserdisc release of the \"Hitchhiker's\" TV series in the mid-1980s, but had to cancel the project due to a legal tangle with the movie rights, although master tapes for the Laserdiscs were prepared. The sound was specially remixed in stereo and Elektra/Asylum records agreed to license the original Eagles theme music. BBC Video eventually was able to do an initial VHS release in 1992. This was a dual cassette edition, with additional material which had originally been cut from the episodes. CBS/Fox Video made the six episodes available on a single tape in North America starting in 1993. They were joined by \"The Making of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", also on VHS, that same year, as well as a Laserdisc release. The complete series on one tape and the Making of on the second tape could also be purchased in a box set edition. Restoration of the six episodes and the Making of documentary were begun in 2001, with a Region 2+4 DVD release in the United Kingdom by BBC Video (Catalogue Number BBCDVD 1092) in January 2002. A Region 1 edition, released by Warner Home Video, followed in April 2002. Both DVD editions are two-disc sets, with the six episodes on disc 1, and bonus materials on disc 2. The North American DVD edition also has a copy of the \"Omnibus\" tribute to Douglas Adams from BBC Two that aired on 4 August 2001, which the UK DVD edition does not.\n\nA special edition box set of the series was released on Blu-ray and DVD on 1 October 2018. The set featured upscaled HD versions of the original episodes alongside optional stereo or 5.1 surround sound mixes remastered by Mark Ayres, formerly of the BBC Radiophonic Workshop.\n\nIn North America, the complete series is viewable on Hulu and Amazon Prime.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the show has a 67% approval rating based on 6 reviews.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879928", "title": "PHLX Semiconductor Sector", "text": "PHLX Semiconductor Sector\n\nThe PHLX Semiconductor Sector (SOX) is a Philadelphia Stock Exchange capitalization-weighted index composed of companies primarily involved in the design, distribution, manufacture, and sale of semiconductors.\n\nThe Index contains the following companies (18th july 2019): \n\n\nThe index was set to an initial value of 200 on December 1, 1993 and was split two-for-one on July 24, 1995; options commenced trading on September 7, 1994.\n\nThe composition of the index can be found at the NASDAQ Indexes website.\n"}
{"id": "1879942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879942", "title": "Mary Dorcey", "text": "Mary Dorcey\n\nMary Dorcey (born 1950) is an award-winning Irish poet, novelist and short story writer. Her work explores issues of women's sexual identity, the power of the erotic, and political injustice. She was a pioneer of gay rights in Ireland.\n\nDorcey was born in County Dublin, Ireland. She is a member by peer election of Aosdána the Irish Academy of Arts and Letters. She was educated in Ireland and at the Open University and in France at Paris Diderot University. She is a Research Associate at Trinity College, Dublin where for ten years she was a writer in residence at the Centre for Gender and Women's Studies, during which time she conducted seminars on contemporary English literature and led a creative writing workshop. She has also taught in the School for Justice at University College Dublin\n\nShe has published six collections of poetry, one novel, one collection of short stories and one novella.\n\nDorcey was the first woman in Irish history (1974 to the present) to advocate for LGBTI rights, in person and print, throughout Ireland and internationally. She was a founder member of Irish Women United, Women for Radical Change and The Movement for Sexual Liberation.\n\nShe has lived and worked in the United States, England, France, Spain and Japan.\n\nDorcey won the Rooney Prize for Irish Literature for Literature in 1990 for her short story collection \"A Noise from the Woodshed\".\nHer novel \"Biography of Desire\" has been both a best seller and achieved critical acclaim. It was described in the Irish Times review as 'the first truly erotic Irish novel.'\n\nHer poetry and fiction is taught internationally at universities throughout Europe,the United States and Canada. It has attracted a wealth of international research over the past 30 years and has been the subject of countless academic essays and critiques. It is reproduced in more than one hundred anthologies representing Irish, Gay and Women's literature.\n\nHer poems are taught on both the Irish Junior Certificate English curriculum and on the British O Level English curriculum. 'First Love' has been selected once more for the revised Junior Cycle and was also included in the BBC Anthology 'A Hundred Favourite Poems of Childhood.' \nThey have been performed on radio and television (RTÉ, BBC, and Channel 4.) and her stories have been dramatized for radio (BBC) and for stage productions in Ireland, Britain and Australia: 'In the Pink' (The Raving Beauties) and, 'Sunny Side Plucked.'\n\nShe has won five major awards for literature from the Arts Council of Ireland: 1990, 1995, 1999 and 2005 and 2008.\n\nMuch of her work explores issues of sexuality, identity and the multifaceted lives of women through their role as mothers, daughters, and lovers. Her themes include the cathartic role of the outsider, political injustice and the nature of the erotic power to subvert and transfigure. She has won popular and international critical acclaim for her portrayal of romantic and erotic relationships between women and her subversive and tender view of the mother/daughter dynamic.\n\n\n\n\n\nBisexuality, Queer Theory, and Mary Dorcey's Biography of Desire\nwww.postcolonialweb.org/poldiscourse/casablanca/pratt2.html\nMay 31, 2001 - Bisexuality, Queer Theory and Mary Dorcey's Biography of Desire: An ... categorically that the first person I loved was of the male sex\" (153).\nBisexuality, Queer Theory, and Mary Dorcey's Biography of Desire\npostcolonialweb.org\n\nHeather Ingman - 2007 - Literary Criticism (Dorcey, 1989, 158- 9) The semiotic world 'beyond the grasp of speech' ... Kate observes to herself that: Mary Dorcey continues her exploration of the life of...\n\nKatarzyna Poloczek, University of Łódź: 'Women's Power To Be Loud.'\n1\n"}
{"id": "1879943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879943", "title": "Jimmy Wynn", "text": "Jimmy Wynn\n\nJames Sherman Wynn (March 12, 1942March 26, 2020), nicknamed \"The Toy Cannon\", was an American professional baseball player who had a 15-year career with the Houston Colt .45s / Astros and four other teams, primarily as a center fielder. Wynn was nicknamed \"The Toy Cannon\" because his bat had a lot of \"pop\" for his small size (, ).\n\nWynn's career started in 1962 when the Cincinnati Reds signed him as an amateur free agent. He played that season with the Tampa Tarpons in the Florida State League. He played mostly at third base, batting .290 with 14 home runs. After the season, he was drafted by the then Houston Colt .45s in the 1962 first-year player draft.\n\nWynn began the 1963 season with the Double-A San Antonio Bullets in the Texas League, and while there split his time between shortstop and third base while batting .288 with 16 home runs in 78 games. He was promoted to the major leagues in July, and made his major league debut on July 10. Starting at shortstop, he went 1-for-4 with a stolen base. He split his time during the rest of that initial season between shortstop and the outfield, most often playing left field. He finished the season having played in 70 games, having 61 hits, four home runs, 27 runs batted in, four stolen bases and a .244 batting average.\n\nHaving struggled defensively at shortstop, Wynn was converted to a full-time outfielder in 1964. He opened the season as the Colt .45s starting center fielder, but was sent back to the minor leagues in June, with Mike White taking over. He was called up in September, and finished the season starting in center field. He ended the season having played 67 games, with 49 hits, five home runs, 18 runs batted in, five stolen bases, and a .224 batting average.\n\nHe played his first full season the following year, playing in 157 games; accordingly, he had 155 hits, 22 home runs, 73 runs batted in, 43 stolen bases and a .275 batting average and a .371 on-base percentage.\n\nHis 1966 season ended abruptly after 105 games after breaking his left arm crashing into the outfield wall at Connie Mack Stadium chasing down a Dick Allen fly ball resulting in a game-winning, inside-the-park home run for Allen and the Philadelphia Phillies in the bottom of the 10th inning on August 1, 1966. He had 107 hits, 18 home runs, 62 runs batted in, 13 stolen bases, a .256 batting average and .321 on-base percentage.\n\nHis 1967 season was a return to form, as he played in 158 games, having 148 hits, 37 home runs (a career high), 107 runs batted in, 16 stolen bases, a .249 batting average and a .331 on-base percentage, was named to his first ever All-Star Game and finished 11th in the MVP voting, being edged out by Hank Aaron (and his 39 home runs) in the home run chase for the season in the final days of the season; it has been speculated Wynn may have lost a substantial number of home runs to the lengthy fences in the Astrodome, while Aaron played in the more homer-friendly Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium. Aaron himself commented he considered Wynn the season's home run champion. Perhaps Wynn's most famous home run came on June 10 of the 1967 season at Crosley Field. The shot, which came in the eighth inning of the Astros' 8–3 loss to the Cincinnati Reds, cleared the 58-foot scoreboard in left-center field and landed on Interstate 75 outside the stadium. Five days later, Wynn became the first Houston batter to hit three home runs in one game as his Astros defeated the San Francisco Giants 6–2 at the Astrodome. In the first game of a doubleheader against the Pittsburgh Pirates one month later, on July 23, Wynn hit another tape measure home run, the ball clearing Forbes Field's center-field wall 457 feet from home plate.\n\nThe following season, he played in 156 games while having 146 hits, 85 runs, 26 home runs, 67 runs batted in, 11 stolen bases with a .269 batting average and a .376 on-base percentage, although he walked 90 times and struck out 131 times. \n\nHis 1969 season had its highs and lows, as he played in 149 games while having 133 hits, 113 runs, 33 home runs, 87 runs batted in, 23 stolen bases, 148 walks (a career high) for a .269 batting average and a .436 on-base percentage (a career high), although he struck out 142 times (also a career high). He finished 15th in the MVP balloting. The following year, he played in 157 games while having 156 hits, 82 runs, 27 home runs, 88 runs batted in, 24 stolen bases, 106 walks, 96 strike outs, and a .282 batting average with a .394 on-base percentage. In the 1971 season, he played in 123 games (his least since 1966), having 82 hits, 38 runs, seven home runs, 45 runs batted in, 10 stolen bases, 56 walks, 63 strike outs, with a .203 batting average and .302 on-base percentage. He returned to form the following season, playing in 145 games while having 148 hits, 117 runs, 24 home runs, 90 runs batted in, 17 stolen bases, 103 walks, 99 strikeouts, and a .273 batting average and a .389 on-base percentage. The 1973 season was his final one with the Astros. He played in 139 games, having 106 hits, 90 runs, 20 home runs, 55 runs batted in, 14 stolen bases, 91 walks, 102 strikeouts with a .220 batting average and a .347 on-base percentage. \n\nOn December 6, 1973, he was traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers for David Culpepper and Claude Osteen.\n\nIn his first season with the Dodgers, he played in 150 games, having 145 hits, 104 runs, 32 home runs, 108 runs batted in, 18 stolen bases, 108 walks, 104 strikeouts, with a .271 batting average and a .387 on-base percentage. He was named to the All-Star Game that season, while finishing 5th in the MVP balloting and being awarded by The Sporting News with the Comeback Player of the Year Award in helping the Dodgers win the National League pennant. In the 1974 NLCS, he had just two hits in 10 at-bats, although he walked nine times and had 2 runs batted in and scored four runs while they beat the Pittsburgh Pirates in four games. In the 1974 World Series, he went 3-for-16 while having 2 runs batted in and his only postseason home run was off Rollie Fingers in the 9th inning of Game 1 in a losing cause.\n\nWynn started 1975 well, although a bad shoulder injury limited his effectiveness at the plate and making throws from center field, thus he was moved to left field. In his second (and last season) with the Dodgers, he played in 130 games, having 102 hits, 80 runs, 18 home runs, 58 runs batted in, seven stolen bases, 110 walks, 77 strikeouts with a .248 batting average and .403 on-base percentage. He was named to the All-Star Game, his third and final selection. On November 17, 1975, he (along with Lee Lacy, Tom Paciorek and Jerry Royster) were traded to the Atlanta Braves for Dusty Baker and Ed Goodson.\n\nIn his only season with the Braves, Wynn played in 148 games, having 93 hits, 75 runs, 17 home runs, 66 runs batted in, 16 stolen bases, 127 walks, 111 strikeouts, with a .207 batting average and a .377 on-base percentage. On November 30, he was purchased by the New York Yankees.\n\nWynn spent the final year of his playing career mainly as a designated hitter for the New York Yankees and Milwaukee Brewers, having been released by the Yankees on July 14, then was signed as a free agent by the Brewers 12 days later. He played in 30 games for the Yankees and 36 for the Brewers, for a total of 66 games, garnering 34 total hits, one home run, 13 runs batted in, four stolen bases, 32 walks, 47 strikeouts, with a .175 batting average and a .289 on-base percentage. On October 28, he was released by the Brewers.\n\nIn 1920 games over 15 seasons, Wynn had 8011 plate appearances and compiled a .250 batting average (1665-for-6653) with 1105 runs, 285 doubles, 39 triples, 291 home runs, 964 RBI, 225 stolen bases, 1224 base on balls, 1427 strikeouts, .366 on-base percentage and .436 slugging percentage. Defensively, he posted a career .980 fielding percentage.\n\nWynn's number 24 was retired by the Astros on June 25, 2005, when the Astros played the Texas Rangers. Jason Lane, who wore Wynn's 24 before the ceremony, changed his number to 16 as a result.\n\nWynn previously served as a post-game analyst on Houston Astros television broadcasts on FSN Houston. He also served as a community outreach executive for the team.\n\nIn the 1995 film \"Apollo 13\", television footage of Wynn rounding third base is shown as the Apollo astronauts broadcast what they erroneously think is a live feed to a national audience.\n\nWynn died on March 26, 2020, two weeks after turning 78, in Houston, TX; no cause was given. Marie, his wife; Kimberly, his daughter; and James, his son, survive him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879945", "title": "Ericsson Globe", "text": "Ericsson Globe\n\nEricsson Globe, originally known as Stockholm Globe Arena and commonly referred to in Swedish simply as Globen (; \"the Globe\"), is an indoor arena located in Stockholm Globe City, Johanneshov district of Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nThe Ericsson Globe is the largest hemispherical building on Earth and took two and a half years to build. Shaped like a large white ball, it has a diameter of 110 meters (361 feet) and an inner height of 85 meters (279 feet). The volume of the building is 605,000 cubic meters (21,188,800 cubic feet). It has a seating capacity of 16,000 spectators for shows and concerts, and 13,850 for ice hockey.\n\nIt represents the Sun in the Sweden Solar System, the world's largest scale model of the Solar System.\n\nGloben was inaugurated on 19 February 1989 after a construction period of less than three years. The first major event was the Melodifestivalen 1989.\n\nOn February 2, 2009, the naming rights to the Stockholm Globe Arena were officially acquired by Swedish telecommunications company Ericsson, and it became known as the \"Ericsson Globe\".\n\nThe Globe is primarily used for ice hockey, and is the former home arena of AIK, Djurgårdens IF, and Hammarby IF. It opened in 1989 and seats 13,850 for ice hockey games, but is also used for musical performances as well as other sports than ice hockey, for example futsal (indoor football). It is owned by \"FCA fastigheter\". The third team to play a home game in their league was Huddinge IK (three home games there, all in 1993), followed by Hammarby IF (20 home games in The Globen to this day) and AC Camelen (one game in 1998, in the sixth level league, with 92 spectators). The first international game played in Globen was between Hammarby IF (Sweden) and Jokerit (Finland) a couple of weeks before the grand opening, although the players were only 12 years old at the time (born 1977) and it was a friendly game. The arena has been the home of the finals of Sveriges Television's yearly music competition \"Melodifestivalen\" until 2012. Ericsson Globe has hosted the Eurovision Song Contest 2000 and Eurovision Song Contest 2016. It will host several matches of the 2023 World Men's Handball Championship with Sweden co-hosting alongside Poland.\n\nA small cottage in aluminum with a base was placed upon the Globe on May 26, 2009. The artist's intention with the arrangement is to illustrate two important symbols for Sweden: the high-technology Globe building and the traditional, simple small countryside cottage in Falu red with house corners painted in white. The house was positioned some distance from the exact top position of the Globe. The artist hopes he will eventually manage to place a similar cottage on the Moon. The cottage remained on the Globe until October 2009.\nSkyview is an exterior inclined elevator which transports visitors to the top of the arena for a virtually unobstructed view of Stockholm.\n\nIt has two spherical gondolas, each able to accommodate up to 16 passengers, which travel along parallel tracks on the exterior of the south side of the globe.\n\nSkyview opened in February 2010 and carried 160,000 people during its first year of operation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879959", "title": "Christ Pantocrator", "text": "Christ Pantocrator\n\nIn Christian iconography, Christ Pantocrator () is a specific depiction of Christ. \"Pantocrator\" or \"Pantokrator\", usually translated as \"Almighty\" or \"all-powerful\", is derived from one of many names of God in Judaism.\n\nThe Pantokrator, largely an Eastern Orthodox or Eastern Catholic theological conception, is less common under that name in Western (Roman) Catholicism and largely unknown to most Protestants. In the West the equivalent image in art is known as Christ in Majesty, which developed a rather different iconography. \"Christ Pantocrator\" has come to suggest Christ as a mild but stern, all-powerful judge of humanity.\n\nWhen the Hebrew Bible was translated into Greek as the Septuagint, \"Pantokrator\" was used both for \"YHWH Sabaoth\" \"Lord of Hosts\" and for \"El Shaddai\" \"God Almighty\". In the New Testament, \"Pantokrator\" is used once by Paul () and nine times in the Book of Revelation: , , , , , , , , and . The references to God the Father and God the Son in Revelation are at times interchangeable, \"Pantokrator\" appears to be reserved for the Father except, perhaps, in 1:8.\n\nThe most common translation of \"Pantocrator\" is \"Almighty\" or \"All-powerful\". In this understanding, \"Pantokrator\" is a compound word formed from the Greek words , ' ( '), i.e. \"all\" and , \",\" i.e. \"strength\", \"might\", \"power\". This is often understood in terms of potential power; i.e., ability to do anything, omnipotence.\n\nAnother, more literal translation is \"Ruler of All\" or, less literally, \"Sustainer of the World\". In this understanding, Pantokrator is a compound word formed from the Greek for \"all\" and the verb meaning \"To accomplish something\" or \"to sustain something\" (, \"\"). This translation speaks more to God's actual power; i.e., God does everything (as opposed to God can do everything).\n\nThe icon of Christ Pantokrator is one of the most common religious images of Orthodox Christianity. Generally speaking, in Medieval eastern roman church art and architecture, an iconic mosaic or fresco of Christ Pantokrator occupies the space in the central dome of the church, in the half-dome of the apse, or on the nave vault. Some scholars (Latourette 1975: 572) consider the Pantocrator a Christian adaptation of images of Zeus, such as the great statue of Zeus enthroned at Olympia. The development of the earliest stages of the icon from Roman Imperial imagery is easier to trace.\n\nThe image of Christ Pantocrator was one of the first images of Christ developed in the Early Christian Church and remains a central icon of the Eastern Orthodox Church. In the half-length image, Christ holds the New Testament in his left hand and makes the gesture of teaching or of blessing with his right. \nThe typical Western Christ in Majesty is a full-length icon. In the early Middle Ages, it usually presented Christ in a mandorla or other geometric frame, surrounded by the Four Evangelists or their symbols.\n\nThe oldest known surviving example of the icon of Christ Pantocrator was painted in encaustic on panel in the sixth or seventh century, and survived the period of destruction of images during the Iconoclastic disputes that twice racked the Eastern church, 726 to 787 and 814 to 842. It was preserved in Saint Catherine's Monastery, in the remote desert of the Sinai. The gessoed panel, finely painted using a wax medium on a wooden panel, had been coarsely overpainted around the face and hands at some time around the thirteenth century. When the overpainting was cleaned in 1962, the ancient image was revealed to be a very high-quality icon, probably produced in Constantinople.\n\nThe icon, traditionally half-length when in a semi-dome, which became adopted for panel icons also, depicts Christ fully frontal with a somewhat melancholy and stern aspect, with the right hand raised in blessing or, in the early encaustic panel at Saint Catherine's Monastery, the conventional rhetorical gesture that represents teaching. The left hand holds a closed book with a richly decorated cover featuring the Cross, representing the Gospels. An icon where Christ has an open book is called \"Christ the Teacher\", a variant of the Pantocrator. Christ is bearded, his brown hair centrally parted, and his head is surrounded by a halo. The icon is usually shown against a gold background comparable to the gilded grounds of mosaic depictions of the Christian emperors.\n\nOften, the name of Christ is written on each side of the halo, as IC and XC. Christ's fingers are depicted in a pose that represents the letters IC, X and C, thereby making the Christogram \"ICXC\" (for \"Jesus Christ\"). The IC is composed of the Greek characters iota (Ι) and lunate sigma (C; instead of Σ, ς)—the first and last letters of 'Jesus' in Greek (); in XC the letters are chi (Χ) and again the lunate sigma—the first and last letters of 'Christ' in Greek ().\n\nIn many cases, Christ has a cruciform halo inscribed with the letters Ο Ω Ν, i.e. \"He Who Is\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879967", "title": "Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928", "text": "Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928\n\nThe Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. This act expanded on the Representation of the People Act 1918 which had given some women the vote in Parliamentary elections for the first time after World War I. The 1928 Act widened suffrage by giving women electoral equality with men. It gave the vote to all women over 21 years old, regardless of property ownership. Prior to this act only women over 30 who met minimum property qualifications could vote. Similar provision was made for the Parliament of Northern Ireland by the Representation of the People Act (Northern Ireland) 1928 (18 & 19 Geo V, Ch 24 (NI)).\n\nThis statute is sometimes known informally as the Fifth Reform Act or the Equal Suffrage Act.\n\nThe act was passed by the Conservative Party without much opposition from other parties.\n\nThe bill became law on 2 July 1928, having been introduced in March. The leader of the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies who had campaigned for the vote, Millicent Fawcett, was still alive and attended the parliament session to see the vote take place. She wrote in her diary the same night \"It is almost exactly 61 years ago since I heard John Stuart Mill introduce his suffrage amendment to the Reform Bill on 20 May 1867. So I have had extraordinary good luck in having seen the struggle from the beginning.\"\n\nOn 5 August 1928 Millicent Fawcett obtained a letter from the prime minister Stanley Baldwin. He points out that even though there were obstacles in passing the bill, he always believed it would be ratified in \"the simple and complete form it ultimately assumed\". He finishes the letter by expressing a hope that equal vote would be beneficial for the country and it would serve for the greater good in England.\n\nThe Act added five million more women to the electoral roll and had the effect of making women a majority, 52.7%, of the electorate in the 1929 general election, which was termed the \"Flapper Election\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879993", "title": "Lex ferenda", "text": "Lex ferenda\n\nLex ferenda is a Latin expression that means \"future law\" used in the sense of \"what the law should be\" (as opposed to lex lata - \"the current law\"). The derivative expression de lege ferenda means \"with a view to the future law\". The expressions are generally used in the context of proposals for legislative improvements, especially in the academic literature, both in the Anglo-American and in the continental legal systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879994", "title": "WWPR (AM)", "text": "WWPR (AM)\n\nWWPR (1490 AM) is an American radio station licensed to serve the community of Bradenton, the county seat of Manatee County, Florida, United States. The station is currently owned and operated by Vidify Media, Inc.\n\nOn weekdays, WWPR broadcasts a talk radio format to Manatee County, as well as parts of Sarasota, Pinellas, and Hillsborough counties. On weekday mornings and mid-days these are local political talk programs. Weekday programs also include talk shows on health, boating, and sports. Weekends include religious and Spanish-language programs.\n\nThe station, founded in 1946 as \"WDHL\", was assigned the call sign \"WWPR\" by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on January 3, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "1879998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879998", "title": "Project 1950", "text": "Project 1950\n\nProject 1950 is the sixth studio album by the American horror punk band the Misfits, released in 2003. It consists of cover versions of rock and roll songs from the 1950s and 1960s and marks bassist Jerry Only's debut as the Misfits' lead singer. Except for Only, no members of the band from their previous album returned for \"Project 1950\". The album cover artwork was done by Pennsylvania artist Tony Squindo. The liner notes include explanations from the band members about why they chose each particular song.\n\nReceiving generally positive critical reviews from publications such as Allmusic, the album became a commercial success and hit the #2 slot on \"Billboard's\" 'Top Heatseekers' chart as well as #5 on its 'Top Independent Albums' chart. Ronnie Spector guest starred as a backing vocalist on two tracks. Other members of the band at that point had also previously been associated with famous groups, with the album also including work from punk rockers Marky Ramone of the Ramones and Dez Cadena of Black Flag.\n\nIn October 2014, the band released and expanded edition of the album, adding three new tracks with current drummer Eric \"Chupacabra\" Arce performing on the new tracks. A limited picture disc LP of the expanded album was also released with new artwork by Tom Whalen\n\nThe album received positive reviews. Allmusic ran a supportive review by critic Johnny Loftus, who stated that \"it's good to hear their excitement in the recordings, which crackle with enthusiasm\" and called the album \"really enjoyable in a nostalgia sort of way\". Reviewing the Expanded Edition of the album Ken Pierce, of Piercing Metal stated \"Overall the tunes retain a large part of their original sound but with there being renditions by The Misfits they are faster and quicker to finish when it all comes down to it.\" rating the album 4 out of 5.\n\n\nBonus Material\n\n"}
{"id": "1879999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879999", "title": "Lex lata", "text": "Lex lata\n\nLex lata (also called de lege lata) is a Latin expression that means \"the law as it exists\" (as opposed to lex ferenda).\n\n"}
{"id": "1880010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880010", "title": "Red Entertainment", "text": "Red Entertainment\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880014", "title": "Education in Myanmar", "text": "Education in Myanmar\n\nThe educational system of Myanmar (also known as Burma) is operated by the government Ministry of Education. Universities and professional institutes from upper Burma and lower Burma are run by two separate entities, the Departments of Higher Education (Lower Burma and Upper Burma), whose office headquarters are in Yangon and Mandalay respectively. The education system is based on the United Kingdom's system, due to nearly a century of British and Christian presences in Burma.\n\"The\nfirst Government high school was founded by the British colonial administration\nin 1874. Two years later, this Government High School was upgraded and\nbecame University College, Rangoon.\"\nNearly all schools are government-operated, but recently, there has been an increase in privately funded schools (which specialise in English). Schooling is compulsory until the end of elementary school, probably about 9 years old, while the compulsory schooling age is 15 or 16 at international level.\n\nThe literacy rate of Burma, according to the 2014 Burma Census stands at 89.5% (males: 92.6%, females: 86.9%). The annual budget allocated to education by the government is low; only about 1.2% is spent per year on education. English is taught as a second language from kindergarten.\n\nMost of the early mission schools are since 1860 (such as La Salle schools) in Burma were nationalised on 1 April 1965 after the order restoration of general Ne Win.\n\nDuring British colonial rule, educational access for women improved tremendously. In the pre-colonial era, male education was emphasised in the traditional Buddhist monastic education system. The number of female students enrolled in school rose 61% (by 45,000 students) from 1911-1921, and another 82% (100,000 students) from 1921 to 1931 with expansion of the colonial and private education system, primarily in the form of all-girls schools. This was mirrored by an increase in female employment. From 1921 to 1931, there was a 33% increase in employment of women in public administration, law, medicine (96% increase), education (64% increase), and journalism sectors.\n\nWhen Burma gained independence in 1948, the government sought to create a literate and educated population, and Burma was believed to be on its way to become the first Asian Tiger in the region. However, 1962 coup d'etat isolated and impoverished Burma. All schools were nationalised and educational standards began to fall. Burmese replaced English as the medium of instruction at Burmese universities in 1965, with the passing of the New University Education Law a year earlier. This led to a rapid decline in English proficiency among the Burmese. English was reintroduced as a medium of instruction in 1982. In 1977, the 2 year regional college system was introduced by the Burmese government, as a way to disperse college students until they were about to graduate (the third and fourth years were spent at a traditional university), a system that was ended in 1981.\n\nDue to the student protests of the 8888 Uprising, all universities were closed in Burma for 2 years. During the 1990s, the newly introduced structure perpetuated a weak education system as the government's response to the crises was to introduce one 6-month term for each academic year. The SPDC government arranged irregular commencement dates for universities and colleges, but, students were still participated in clashes with the government. Another series of student strikes in 1996 and 1998 resulted in a further 3 years of closure.\n\nAfter the re-opening of universities and colleges in 1999, the government scattered universities in different regions. The relocation of certain universities were made under relative ministries. The new system reduced university degrees by one year, providing a bachelor's degree for just three-year course. However, improvements were rapidly made despite the early disturbances. In 2005, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officially announced that Burmese education was reaching international standards and the government had fully accredited 156 universities and colleges in Myanmar.\n\nToday, Myanmar lags far behind in terms of educational standards. Learn-by-rote education, poorly-trained teachers, bribery, as well as use of out-dated resources have been the trademarks of primary and secondary schools of Myanmar. Furthermore, students are obliged to follow onerous after-school tuition since learning at school is not considered enough. Students learn everything by heart, from answers of English grammar questions to essays. Sometimes all questions asked in tests are given in advance. Exceptionally, some standard 4, standard 8 and standard 10 test answers are unseen unless the test papers are stolen. Many universities have been built and scattered throughout cities to prevent students participation in potential unrest.\n\nBesides these actions, students attending these universities are not allowed to speak freely, to write freely or to publish freely.\n\nSchool uniforms are mandatory throughout public schools in Burma, from kindergarten until the 10th standard. From kindergarten to the 4th standard, the compulsory uniform for boys is a white shirt and green pants, which can be short or long. Shoes and Burmese sandals may be worn. The uniform for girls is similar, consisting of a white blouse and a skirt or pants. From the 5th standard until matriculation, traditional Burmese attire is considered appropriate school uniform. The uniform for boys is a white shirt (with a Mandarin collar or uncollared) and a green sarong called a \"paso\", along with Burmese sandals. For girls, a traditional Burmese blouse (either the \"yinzi,\" with a front opening, or the \"yin hpon\", with a side opening) and a green sarong called a \"htamein\" are worn, along with Burmese sandals.\n\nPreschools are opened for children over 2 years of age and they are in extensive care or public systems. Kindergarten starts from the age of 5 (not younger than 4 Years and 8 months at the time of school's commencement date). Primary, Lower Secondary and Upper Secondary Schools in Burma are under the Department of Basic Education. The official commencement date for those schools is 1 June.\n\nPrimary education is officially compulsory. It lasts five years, and to continue onto secondary school, students must pass a comprehensive examination on basic subjects.\n\nSecondary schools are usually combined, containing both middle and high schools. Secondary Middle schools offer classes from standard 5 to standard 8 whereas Secondary High school offers classes up to standard 10. Children of rich and well-known families are often given easier access to the more prestigious secondary schools. There is much corruption in educational equality. But in both primary and secondary schools, the system is \"no-failure education system\". Only at the end of the high schools or at the entrance of the college/university, the system is changed.\n\nHigh schools students choose one of 2 tracks upon entering high school: science or arts. All high school students take Myanmar, English, and mathematics. However, Science-specialised students also take 3 additional subjects: chemistry, physics and biology as part of their coursework, while arts-specialised students take geography, history and economics. These routes also determine what matriculation subject exams they are administered and what tertiary schools they can apply to.\n\nAt the end of standard 10, students take the University Entrance Examination, commonly referred to as the matriculation exam in English, administered by the Board of Examinations annually in mid-March. High marks in a subject garner a distinction known as \"gondu\" (). Students who achieve distinctions in five or more subjects (or a combined total of approximately 500/600) are generally guaranteed placement in one of Myanmar's medical universities, the most selective of universities. Test score results are released at testing sites throughout the country in June. Since 2007, Mon State has had the highest matriculation pass rates in the country.\n\nStudents who attend international English-language schools or other private schools are not eligible to sit for the matriculation exam, nor are they allowed to enroll in Burmese universities. Instead, they typically study overseas, at destinations such as Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, United Kingdom and the United States. In 2010, 695 Burmese international students studied in the United States, particularly in private liberal arts colleges.\n\nMyanmar secondary education has numerous problems. It completely emphasizes upon rote learning and memorization and regurgitation inhibiting students' creative thinking and critical thinking skills. Teachers themselves learn under the authoritative systems so they are usually resistive to current changes in teaching methods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880025", "title": "Bede BD-1", "text": "Bede BD-1\n\nThe Bede BD-1 was a two-seat, single-engine, low-wing monoplane, the first design of American aeronautical engineer Jim Bede. The BD-1 was designed in 1960 as a kit-built aircraft intended for home assembly by amateur builders. Design goals included a kit price of $US 2500, including a rebuilt 100 hp (75 kW) engine and a cruise speed of 130 knots (240 km/h). The prototype N624BD first flew in 1962.\n\nNo kits were sold however, and it was not until Bede had been removed from the company and the design was reworked - including the removal of the folding wing feature - that it entered production as the American Aviation AA-1.\n\nThe BD-1 was a low-wing monoplane of all-metal construction, utilizing aluminium honeycomb construction and a laminar flow wing. The aircraft was predominantly of bonded, rather than riveted, construction. It featured a sliding canopy and two seats. The aircraft was designed to be towed behind a car to allow it to be stored at home in a garage and thus reduce hangarage costs. To facilitate this goal the aircraft had folding wings and a horizontal stabilizer of less than 8 foot (2.4 m) width. It was designed to be fully aerobatic as well and was stressed for 9\"g\" (90 m/s²).\n\nMany parts of the BD-1 were interchangeable to simplify production. For example, the wings were interchangeable as were the fin and horizontal tail. The ailerons and flaps were interchangeable and the rudder and elevators were also. Many aerodynamic and handling compromises were made to achieve this commonality of parts and trailer-ability.\n\nThe aircraft was intended to be offered with a variety of new or rebuilt engines. Rebuilt engines were to be available to reduce the purchase price. Design powerplants included the Continental A65-8 of , Continental C90-14F of , Continental O-200A of and a Lycoming O-235C1 of .\n\nThe BD-1 was never developed beyond prototype stage and no kits were produced. The company Bede founded to produce the BD-1 kits, Bede Aviation Corporation, eventually became American Aviation and they pursued FAA certification under FAR 23 for the design so that completed aircraft could be sold. Due to financial problems Bede was forced out of the company and the BD-1 was redesigned.\n\nDuring the redesign process the aircraft was modified so that the wings did not fold, making it easier to achieve certification. Other changes included a longer wing to improve rate of climb, an anti-servo tab on the elevator along with an elevator centering spring system to increase longitudinal stability and stall strips to improve the stall performance. The resulting aircraft entered production in the fall of 1968 as the 1969 model American Aviation AA-1 Yankee Clipper.\n\nWhile the BD-1 never did enter production itself, it has had a lasting impact on light aircraft production and spawned a whole series of offspring designs including the Grumman American AA-1, AA-5, and Gulfstream American GA-7 Cougar.\nThe ultimate derivative design, the Tiger Aircraft AG-5B Tiger, was produced until 2006 by Tiger Aircraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880028", "title": "Classical Baby", "text": "Classical Baby\n\nClassical Baby is a 2005-2008 American television series for young children and families directed by Amy Schatz and produced by HBO. The animation was created and designed by Maciek Albrecht and MaGiK World Animation. \"Classical Baby\" is designed to introduce young children to masterpieces from the worlds of music, art, dance, and poetry.\n\nThe series has won 4 Emmy Awards, the Peabody Award, the Directors Guild of America Award, Parents’ Choice Awards, and others.\n\nThe series won two Emmy Awards for Outstanding Children's Program and two Emmy Awards for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation, one given to animator Barbara Wierzchowska, and one to Jarek Szyszko.\n\nIt won a Peabody Award in 2005. The judges wrote: \"This whimsical, charming, deceptively simple marriage of animation to the music of Tchaikovsky, Bach and Ellington becomes an interactive treat for young children and parents alike.\"\n\nIn 2017, two new lullaby-themed episodes aired on HBO: \"Classical Baby: The Lullaby Show 1\" and \"Classical Baby: The Lullaby Show 2.\"\n\nIn 2020, \"Classical Baby: The Symphony Show\" & two new Christmas themed episodes aired on HBO Max: \"Classical Baby: The Holiday Show 1 \" and \"Classical Baby: The Holiday Show 2. \"\n\nClassical Baby is currently available on HBO On-Demand as nine different episodes:\nAdditional Episodes had been available previously, which consisted of selections taken from the first nine episodes, and are not included on the DVD version:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880033", "title": "Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of the worldwide Catholic Church under the spiritual leadership of the pope in Rome.\n\nAccording to the latest census from 2013, there are 544,114 Catholics in Bosnia and Herzegovina, making up 15.41% of the population.\n\nChristianity arrived in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the first century AD. Saint Paul wrote in his Epistle to the Romans that he brought the Gospel of Christ to Illyria. Saint Jerome, a Doctor of the Church born in Stridon (modern-day Šuica, Bosnia and Herzegovina), also wrote that St. Paul preached in Illyria. It is believed that Christianity arrived with Paul's disciples or Paul himself.\n\nAfter the Edict of Milan, Christianity spread rapidly. Christians and bishops from the area of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina settled around two metropolitan seats, Salona and Sirmium. Several early Christian dioceses developed in the fourth, fifth and sixth century. Andrija, Bishop of Bistue (), was mentioned at synods in Salona in 530 and 533. Bishop Andrija probably had a seat in the Roman municipium Bistue Nova, near Zenica. The synod in Salona decided to create the new diocese of Bistue Vetus), separating it from the Diocese of Bistue Nova. Several dioceses also were established in the south at Martari (present-day Konjic), Sarsenterum, Delminium, Baloie and Lausinium.\n\nWith the collapse of the Western Roman Empire in 476 and with the ravaging and the settling of Avar and Slavic tribes, this church organization was completely destroyed.\n\nAfter the arrival of the Croats on the Adriatic coast in the early seventh century, Frankish and Byzantine rulers began baptizing them as far inland as the river Drina. Christianization was also influenced by the proximity of old Roman cities in Dalmatia, and spread from the Dalmatian coast towards the interior of the Duchy of Croatia. This area was governed by the archbishops of Split, successors of Salona's archbishops, who attempted to restore the ancient Duvno Diocese. Northern Bosnia was part of the Pannonian-Moravian archbishopric, established in 869 by Saint Methodius of Thessaloniki.\n\nDiocese of Trebinje was the first diocese in this area established in the Middle Age. It is mentioned for the first time in the second half of the 10th century during the pontificate of Pope Gregory V.\n\nThe Diocese of Bosnia was established in the 11th century. Based on \"Provinciale Vetus\", a collection of historical documents published in 1188, it is first mentioned as subordinate to the Archdiocese of Split and a second time as part of the Archdiocese of Ragusa. The Diocese presumably originated between 1060 and 1075.\n\nAt the time, the Bosnian Church, accused of heresy, existed in the medieval Bosnia. The first missionaries that got the exclusive right to missionary work and inquisition in the medieval Bosnia were the Dominicans. Any priest that used the native language in the liturgy could become suspicious of heresy. For this reason, in 1233, Pope Gregory IX deposed Bishop Vladimir and appointed his successor John the German, who was also a Dominican friar. After the seat of the Bishop of Bosnia was moved to Đakovo in 1247, the influence of the Dominicans in Bosnia started to diminish.\n\nThe Franciscans were also present in the medieval Bosnia since the early 13th century. Pope Nicholas IV, who was also a Franciscan, granted them in 1291 the jurisdiction over inquisition in Bosnia together with the Dominicans. These rights were confirmed to them by Pope Boniface VIII. Ever since that time, the Dominicans and the Franciscans competed over the exclusive right over the missionary work and inquisition in Bosnia. Finally, it was Pope John XXII who, in 1327, granted the Franciscan these exclusive rights. Since that time, the influence of Dominicans significantly diminished, and with the Ottoman conquest in the 15th century, it completely vanished. Neither of these religious order made an effort to educate the local secular clergy, but instead fought over the influence in the country.\n\nEven afterward, the Franciscans spent little time to educate the local secular clergy. Instead, the Bosnian vicar fra Bartul of Auvergne tried to attract foreign Franciscans to do the missionary work. The Franciscans gained a number of privileges, including the election of provincials, apostolic visitators, vicars and bishops.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina, split between the kingdoms of Croatia and Bosnia, came under Ottoman rule during the 15th and 16th centuries. Christian subjects of the Ottoman Empire had \"protected person\" or \"people of the \"dhimma\"\" status, which guaranteed them their possessions and works in agriculture, crafts and trade if they remained loyal to the Ottoman government. Christians were not allowed to protest against Islam, build churches or establish new church institutions. Public and civil service were performed by Muslims.\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church enjoyed a better position in the Ottoman Empire than other religions. Since the pope was a political opponent of the empire, Catholics were subordinate to the Orthodox. Unlike the Orthodox metropolitans and bishops, Catholic bishops were not recognized as ecclesiastical dignitaries. The Ottoman government recognized only some Catholic communities, particularly in larger cities with a strong Catholic commercial population. The authorities issued them \"ahidnâmes\", identity documents guaranteeing them freedom of movement (for priests), religious rituals, property and exemption from taxes for those receiving charity. Mehmed the Conqueror issued two such documents to the Bosnian Franciscans – the first after the conquest of Srebrenica in 1462, and the second during the military campaign in the Kingdom of Bosnia in 1463. The latter, released in the Ottoman military camp at Milodraž (on a road connecting Visoko and Fojnica), was known as the Ahdname of Milodraž or Ahdname of Fojnica. The terms of the guarantee were often not implemented; Orthodox clergy attempted to transfer part of their tax obligation to Catholics, leading to disputes between the Orthodox clergy and Franciscans in the Ottoman courts.\n\nThe number of Catholics in Bosnia under the Ottoman rule is unknown. Based on travel literature, it is believed that in the first half of the 16th century the Catholic population still constituted a majority. Serbs who came from the east were also identified as Catholic, and Turkish soldiers primarily constituted the Islamic population. According to Apostolic visitor Peter Masarechi, in 1624 Catholics made up about a quarter of the population and Muslims the majority. During the 17th century Catholics fell to third place in the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they remain today.\n\nThe attempts of the Roman Curia to establish the regular church hierarchy in Bosnia and Herzegovina existed since the 13th century. However, due to political reasons, as well as because of the opposition from the Franciscans, these attempts failed.\n\nThe Franciscans opposed the efforts of local bishops to implement secular clergy in Bosnian parishes, and even sought help from the Ottomans to push them out of the country.\n\nIn 1612 and again in 1618, Rome sent Bartol Kašić, a Jesuit from Dubrovnik to report the situation in the lands under the Ottoman rule in Southeast Europe. Kašić wrote the Pope back in 1613, stating that \"if your Holiness does not take some effective means so that the Bosnian Friars do not prevent the persons sent by your Holiness, no one will be able to make sure that they do will not hand them over to the Turks with the usual and unusual slanders. They know how much they can do in the hearts of the Turks, to exploit the money from poor priests.\"\n\nHead of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples Urbanus Cerri, wrote to Pope Innocent XI in 1676, that the Franciscans in Bosnia are \"the richest in the whole Order, but also the most licentious, and that they are opposed to the secular clergy in fear for the payment for the maintenance of priests from the parishes with which they maintain their monasteries, and that notwithstanding all the orders from Rome, it would not be possible to implement the secular clergy in Bosnia because Franciscans would cause the opposition from the Turks against the secular clergy\".\n\nIn the 19th century, the Franciscans opposed the efforts of local bishops, Rafael Barišić and Marijan Šunjić, both of whom were Franciscans, to open a seminary for the education of the secular clergy. The so-called Barišić affair lasted for 14 years, between 1832 and 1846, and gained attention in Rome, Istanbul and Vienna.\n\nAfter Bosnia Vilayet came under the Austro-Hungarian rule in 1878, Pope Leo XIII restored the vilayet's church hierarchy. In \"Ex hac augusta\", his 5 July 1881 apostolic letter, Leo established a four-diocese ecclesiastical province in Bosnia and Herzegovina and abolished the previous apostolic vicariates. Sarajevo, formerly Vrhbosna, became the archdiocesan and metropolitan seat. Its suffragan dioceses became the new dioceses of Banja Luka and Mostar and the existing Diocese of Trebinje-Mrkan. Since the former Diocese of Duvno is within the Diocese of Mostar, the bishop of Mostar received the title of bishop of Mostar-Duvno to commemorate it. Although a cathedral chapter was immediately established in Vrhbosna, additional time was allowed for its establishment in other dioceses., In a March 1881 letter to Viennese nuncio Serafino Vannutelli, Josip Juraj Strossmayer, bishop of Bosnia or Ðakovo and Srijem, wrote that the establishment of new dioceses was required; however, he opposed a metropolitan seat in Bosnia because it would not be affiliated with the Catholic Church in Croatia.\n\nIn negotiations between the Holy See and Austro-Hungary, the Emperor of Austria had the last word in the appointment of bishops. Diocesan clergy and the Franciscans (some of the only clergy in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Ottoman era) were in place. Josip Stadler, professor of theology at University of Zagreb, was appointed archbishop of Vrhbosna, and the dioceses of Mostar and Banja Luka were entrusted to Franciscans Paškal Buconjić and Marijan Marković. To protect the diocesan priests, Stadler asked the Holy See to remove the Franciscans from all parishes. The Holy See ruled that in 1883 the Franciscans had to transfer part of their parishes to the archbishop; by the end of the century, about one-third of the former Franciscan parishes were held by local bishops. The archbishop sought several more parishes, which created tensions.\n\nUnder Austro-Hungarian rule the number of Catholics increased by about 230,000, largely due to immigration from elsewhere in the empire. The total number of immigrants was about 135,000, of which 95,000 were Catholic. One-third of the immigrant Catholics were Croatian, and 60,000 were Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Hungarians, Germans and Slovenians.\n\nThe Kingdom of Yugoslavia was formed on 1 December 1918 from the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, itself formed from the merger of Austro-Hungarian Empire territories with the formerly-independent Kingdom of Serbia. Although Catholic opinion was divided in Bosnia and Herzegovina about the union with Serbia after the unification, Catholic bishops (including Stadler) encouraged priests and the laity to be loyal to the new government. In their view, in the new state Croats would have national rights and the Church would be free. When this did not happen, relations between church and state cooled and the clergy resisted the government.\n\nIvan Šarić was expected to be appointed Stadler's successor after his death, but the Belgrade government and Franciscans in Bosnia opposed him because of his similarity to Stadler. On 2 May 1922, Šarić was appointed archbishop of Vrhbosna.\n\nThe ideological conflict between Christianity and Marxist philosophy in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Second World War and the era of communist Yugoslavia hardened into confrontation between the communist movement and the Catholic Church. Under the direction of the Yugoslav Communist Party, 184 clergy were killed during and after the war, including 136 priests, 39 seminarians and four brothers; five priests died in communist prisons. Worst affected were the Franciscan provinces of Herzegovina and Bosna Srebrena, whose 121 friars were killed. During the February 1945 Partisan liberation of Mostar and Široki Brijeg, 30 friars from the convent in Široki Brijeg (including 12 professors and the principal of a Franciscan grammar school) were killed.\n\nPersecution of priests, laity and the church became organized after the war, with books published linking the Catholic Church with the fascist Ustaše regime and the Western powers, to justify the persecution. The communists ignored the collaboration of 75 Catholic priests with the Yugoslav Partisans.\n\nFaced with hostility from the Yugoslav communist authorities after the Second\nWorld War, the bishops met in Zagreb and issued a pastoral letter from the Catholic bishops of Yugoslavia on 20 September 1945 protesting injustice, crimes, trials and executions. They protected innocent priests and laity, noting that they did not want to defend the guilty; the number truly guilty was believed small.\n\nWe admit that there were some priests who – seduced by the nationalistic patriotism – violated the sacred law of Christian justice and love, and who therefore deserve to be tried in the court of terrestrial justice. We must however point out that the number of such priests is more than negligible, and that the serious allegations which have been presented in the press and in the meetings against a large part of the Catholic clergy in Yugoslavia, have to be included within tendentious attempts to deceive the public aware of the lies, and take away the reputation of the Catholic Church ...\n\nThe earthquake that struck the Banja Luka area in October 1969 significantly damaged Banja Luka Cathedral, which had to be demolished. In 1972 and 1973 the present, modern tent-shaped cathedral was built on its site.\n\nIn August 1991, when war in Croatia had begun and was beginning in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Archbishop Puljić and Bishops Komarica and Žanić appealed to the authorities, religious communities and the international community to preserve Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and prevent war. However, bishops differed about the internal organization of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Žanić believed that each ethnic group should have a separate administrative unit within the country, but Puljić and the leadership of the Franciscan Province of Bosnia Srebrena insisted on a single state without divisions. In 1994, the bishops demanded that the rights of all peoples must be ensured in all areas of the country. They opposed dividing Bosnia and Herzegovina into states because Catholic religious, sacred and cultural objects would remain largely outside the area granted to the Croats. They also feared the destruction of established diocesan borders of dioceses, which would have political consequences.\n\nThroughout Bosnia, Catholic churches were destroyed by Muslim and Serb armed forces. According to some sources, it is estimated that the total number of completely destroyed Catholic structures is 188, 162 severely damaged and 230 damaged. Of these figures, 86 per cent of these \"completely destroyed\" were attributed to Serb forces and 14 per cent to Muslim fores, of the \"severely damaged\" 69 per cent were attributed to Serb forces and 31 per cent to Muslim forces, while in the \"damaged\" category 60 per cent was attributed to Serb forces and 40 per cent to Muslim forces. But numbers could be much larger, as given in the table below.\n\nPope John Paul II's 23 June 2003 visit to Banja Luka and Bosnia-Herzegovina helped draw the attention of Catholics worldwide to the need to reconstruct the church in the country; the destruction of churches and chapels was one of the most visible wounds of the 1992-95 war. In the Diocese of Banja Luka alone, 39 churches were destroyed and 22 severely damaged. Nine chapels were destroyed and 14 damaged; two convents were destroyed and one severely damaged, as were 33 cemeteries.\n\nIn 2009 the remains of friar Maksimilijan Jurčić, killed by partisans on 28 January 1945, were discovered and buried in Široki Brijeg. Among those in attendance at his funeral were Ljubo Jurčić (the friar's nephew) and the Croatian consul-general in Mostar, Velimir Pleša.\n\nThe Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina has one province: Sarajevo. There are one archdiocese and 3 dioceses, which are divided into archdeaconries, deaneries and parishes.\nThe Zavalje parish of the Diocese of Gospić-Senj is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are two Franciscan provinces in the country: the Franciscan Province of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, based in Mostar, and the Franciscan Province of Bosna Srebrena, based in Sarajevo.\n\nAccording to a Pew Research poll from 2017, Catholics in Bosnia and Herzegovina are predominantly supportive of the Church's stances on moral and social issues: 54% of respondents attend mass every week, 58% believe the Church's stance on contraception should not change, 69% support the Church's stance on ordination of women, 71% think abortion should be illegal in most cases, 83% practice fasting on certain days and 90% support the Church's stance on same-sex marriage.\n\nMedjugorje, a village in Herzegovina and a parish in the Diocese of Mostar-Duvno, has been the site of alleged apparitions of the Virgin Mary since 24 June 1981. It soon became a place of pilgrimage for individuals and prayer groups. The phenomenon is not officially recognized by the Catholic Church. The Holy See announced in March 2010 that it had established a commission under the auspices of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, headed by Cardinal Camillo Ruini, to evaluate the apparitions.\n\nThe Church of the Assumption in Olovo is a Marian pilgrimage site, and its Shrine of Our Lady is well known in southeast Europe. According to a 1679 record, it was visited by pilgrims from Bosnia, Bulgaria, Serbia, Albania and Croatia. It is most popular on the 15 August feast of the Assumption. There are two paintings of Mary at the shrine. Until 1920, the 18th-century \"S. Maria Plumbensis\" was held by the Franciscans in Ilok; later held in Petrićevac and Sarajevo, in 1964 it was moved to Olovo. A 1954 painting by Gabriel Jurkić was based on a description of the older painting, whose whereabouts were unknown at the time.\n\nThe Shrine of St. John the Baptist in Podmilačje is one of the oldest shrines in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The village of Podmilačje, 10 kilometers from Jajce, was first mentioned in a 1461 document by King Stjepan Tomašević; at the time, the church had probably recently been built. It is the only medieval church in Bosnia which remained a church.\n\nMaglaj is a town in central Bosnia in the Bosna Valley near Doboj. It was first mentioned on the 16 September 1408 in the charter (\"sub castro nostro Maglay\") of the Hungarian King Sigismund. The parish of Maglaj was restored in 1970, and a rectory was built. In autumn 1976 the dilapidated St. Anthony Church, built in 1919, was demolished. Construction of a new church and shrine to St. Leopold Mandić began the following spring, and its foundations were blessed on 15 May. On 17 June 1979, the shrine of St. Leopold Bogdan Mandić in Maglaj was dedicated.\n\nThe Apostolic Nunciature to Bosnia and Herzegovina is an ecclesiastical office of the Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The office of the nunciature has been located in Sarajevo since 1993. The first Apostolic Nuncio to Bosnia and Herzegovina was Francesco Monterisi, who served from June 1993 to March 1998. The current nuncio is His Most Reverend Excellency Luigi Pezzuto, who was appointed by Pope Benedict XVI on 17 November 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880039", "title": "The Harder They Fall", "text": "The Harder They Fall\n\nThe Harder They Fall is a 1956 American boxing film noir directed by Mark Robson with a screenplay by Philip Yordan, based on Budd Schulberg's 1947 novel. It marked Humphrey Bogart's final film role. It received an Oscar nomination for Best Cinematography, Black and White for Burnett Guffey at the 29th Academy Awards.\n\nSportswriter Eddie Willis, broke after the newspaper he works for goes under, is hired as a PR man by boxing promoter Nick Benko. Nick has recruited Toro Moreno, a towering Argentinian. Despite Toro's lack of fighting ability, Nick plans to use his size as a gimmick to draw fans to his fights. Unbeknownst to Toro and his manager, Luís Agrandi, all of his fights are fixed to make the public believe that he is a talented boxer.\n\nEddie feels misgivings about the scheme, but the lure of a huge payday is enough to make him ignore the venture's dishonesty. He is able to spin Toro as a legitimate up-and-comer even when his first fight goes so disastrously wrong that the boxing commission threatens to open an investigation.\n\nAs Benko's entourage crosses the country in a bus bedecked with advertising for the fighter, Toro gradually becomes a ranked contender. Throughout the tour, Eddie handles negotiations with other boxing managers to ensure Toro's fights remain fixed.\n\nToro fights Gus Dundee, whose previous fight with champion Buddy Brannen has left him feeling unwell. After the Toro fight, Dundee collapses and dies. Toro is overcome with guilt, thinking he killed Dundee, and wishes to return to Argentina. In a last-ditch attempt to protect the upcoming bout with Brannen, Eddie tells Toro the truth: that Brannen was responsible for Dundee's condition, that Toro is no fighter, and that all his fights have been fixed.\n\nDuring the Brannen fight, Toro sustains a brutal beating. Afterward, Eddie learns that Benko has sold Toro's contract to another manager. While Eddie gets his promised payout of $26,000, Benko has rigged the accounting so Toro earns only $49.07. Ashamed of his part in the farce and not wanting to see Toro exploited any further, Eddie gives Toro the $26,000 and puts him on a plane to Argentina before Benko's men can stop them.\n\nThough Benko threatens to harm Eddie, Eddie begins writing an exposé about the corruption.\n\n\nIn early 1956, Bogart was diagnosed with esophageal cancer, and he died on January 14, 1957. Steiger recalled the actor's professionalism during production, even while coping with the disease:\n\n\"Bogey and I got on very well. Unlike some other stars, when they had closeups, you might have been relegated to a two-shot, or cut out altogether. Bogey didn't play those games. He was a professional and had tremendous authority. He'd come in exactly at 9am and leave at precisely 6pm. I remember once walking to lunch in between takes and seeing Bogey on the lot. I shouldn't have because his work was finished for the day. I asked him why he was still on the lot, and he said, 'They want to shoot some retakes of my closeups because my eyes are too watery'. A little while later, after the film, somebody came up to me with word of Bogey's death. Then it struck me. His eyes were watery because he was in pain with the cancer. I thought: 'How dumb can you be, Rodney'!\"\n\nThe film was released with two different endings: one where Eddie Willis (inspired by sports writer Harold Conrad, according to Conrad) demanded that boxing be banned altogether, and the other where he merely insisted that there be a federal investigation into boxing. The video version contains the \"harder\" ending, while most television prints end with the \"softer\" message. Occasionally inaudible in a take, some lines are reported to have been dubbed in post-production by Paul Frees.\n\nThe film premiered at the 1956 Cannes Film Festival. \"The New York Times\" film critic Bosley Crowther liked the film, writing \"It's a brutal and disagreeable story, probably a little far-fetched, and without Mr. Schulberg's warmest character—the wistful widow who bestowed her favors on busted pugs. But with all the arcana of the fight game that Mr. Yordan and Mr. Robson have put into it—along with their bruising, brutish fight scenes—it makes for a lively, stinging film.\"\n\nDennis Schwartz wrote \"The unwell Bogie's last film is not a knockout, but his hard-hitting performance is terrific as a has-been sports journalist out of desperation taking a job as a publicist for a fight fixer in order to get a bank account ... The social conscience film is realistic, but fails to be shocking or for that matter convincing.\"\n\nPrimo Carnera sued Columbia for $1.5 million in damages, alleging that the film was based on him and invaded his privacy. The lawsuit was not successful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880046", "title": "Type 74", "text": "Type 74\n\nThe is a main battle tank (MBT) of the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (JGSDF). It was built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries as a supplement to the earlier Type 61. It was based on the best features of a number of contemporary designs, placing it in the same class as the US M60 or German Leopard 1. Like these designs, it mounts the Royal Ordnance L7 rifled 105 mm gun. The design did not enter widespread use until 1980, by which point other Western forces had introduced more capable designs. It was followed by the heavier Type 90. Both the Type 74 and Type 90 are supplemented and will be eventually replaced by the new-generation Type 10 tank.\n\nThe JGSDF began studies on new tank designs with Mitsubishi in 1962, after the Type 61 had been shown to be outmatched by new Soviet tanks such as the T-62. Features from several designs were incorporated, including the controllable suspension of the US-German MBT-70 project, the hull of the Leopard 1, and a similar 105mm gun. The design included a rotating cupola for the commander, and a new autoloader for the main gun. Prior to the 1965 decision to design an entirely new tank, some technologies which would later be used in the STB-1 (first prototype) were already in development independently in Japan. The design was finalized in 1964 and various test rigs were built between 1964 and 1967.\n\nDuring the development stage, engineers opted for a license on the NATO standard Royal Ordnance L7 105mm cannon. Japan only produced the barrel under license, developing an indigenous mantlet, breech and recoil system. The full length of the cannon was 5,592 mm, for a total weight of 2,800 kg. Initially, the main gun only used APDS (Armour-Piercing Discarding Sabot) and HEP (High Explosive Plastic) as its primary ammunition. Later it was modified to fire APFSDS (Armour-Piercing Fin-Stabilized Discarding Sabot) and HEAT-MP (High-Explosive Anti-Tank Multi-Purpose) shells as well.\n\nThe secondary armament consisted of a 12.7mm anti-aircraft machine gun (with 660 rounds) and a 7.62 co-axial machine gun (4500 rounds).\n\nThe Type 74 tank is powered by the Mitsubishi 10ZF Model 21 10-cylinder two-stroke cycle diesel engine providing 750 hp (560 kW). At 19 hp/tonne, its power-to-weight ratio is similar to the French AMX-30. The maximum quoted road speed of the Type 74 is 53 km/h; however, speeds of at least 60 km/h have been achieved.\n\nInstead of composite armour (as used on the later Type 90 main battle tank), the Type 74 adopted welded steel plates for hull construction, with sloped armour extensively used to defeat armour-piercing shells and other kinetic energy penetrators. It has frontal hull armor of 80 mm with an effective armor thickness of up to 189 mm for the upper glacis and 139 mm for lower glacis. Side armor is 35 mm, while rear armor is 25 mm thick. The cast steel turret has an estimated 195 mm of armor. When compared to other second-generation MBTs, the Type 74 has more armour than a Leopard 1 (122mm and 140mm), but less than comparable Soviet vehicles such as the T62 (174mm and 204mm).\n\nThe first prototype, designated STB-1, was delivered in late 1968 and underwent a number of modifications until 1969. The autoloader proved too complex and expensive, and was removed, as was the remote-controlled anti-aircraft machine gun. The overall design of the turret was also changed, becoming longer. These changes resulted in the STB-3, which was delivered in 1971. The final prototype, designated STB-6, was delivered in 1973. Production finally started as the Type 74 in September 1975, with 225 being delivered by January 1980. Production ended in 1989, with total production running to 893 examples.\n\nIn service, the tanks were updated with the addition of infra-red imagers rather than image intensifiers for the commander and gunner, and a laser rangefinder in the commander's cupola. The gunner's position included a digital fire control computer, fed range data from the commander's range finder. Rounds for the main gun were upgraded from HEP to APFSDS and HEAT-MP.\n\nThe Type 74 was considered outdated even before it entered service. The Type 90 was to have replaced it outright, but with the end of the Cold War, these plans were scaled back. In 1993 four Type 74s were improved to the new Type 74 Kai (改) [Type 74 mod G (G型)] standard, adding a passive infrared camera and side skirts. The upgrade proved to be extremely expensive, and the program was abandoned.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880053", "title": "Status epilepticus", "text": "Status epilepticus\n\nStatus epilepticus (SE) is a single seizure lasting more than five minutes or two or more seizures within a five-minute period without the person returning to normal between them. Previous definitions used a 30-minute time limit. The seizures can be of the tonic–clonic type, with a regular pattern of contraction and extension of the arms and legs, or of types that do not involve contractions, such as absence seizures or complex partial seizures. Status epilepticus is a life-threatening medical emergency, particularly if treatment is delayed.\nStatus epilepticus may occur in those with a history of epilepsy as well as those with an underlying problem of the brain. These underlying brain problems may include trauma, infections, or strokes among others. Diagnosis often involves checking the blood sugar, imaging of the head, a number of blood tests, and an electroencephalogram. Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures may present similarly. Other conditions that may also appear to be SE include low blood sugar, movement disorders, meningitis, and delirium among others.\nBenzodiazepines are the preferred initial treatment after which typically phenytoin is given. Possible benzodiazepines include intravenous lorazepam as well as intramuscular injections of midazolam. A number of other medications may be used if these are not effective such as valproic acid, phenobarbital, propofol, or ketamine. Intubation may be required to help maintain the person's airway. Between 10 and 30% of people who have status epilepticus die within 30 days. The underlying cause, the person's age, and the length of the seizure are important factors in the outcome. Status epilepticus occurs in up to 40 per 100,000 people per year. It makes up about 1% of people who visit the emergency department.\n\nStatus epilepticus can be divided into two categories: convulsive and nonconvulsive (NCSE).\n\nConvulsive status epilepticus presents with a regular pattern of contraction and extension of the arms and legs.\n\nEpilepsia partialis continua is a variant involving hour-, day-, or even week-long jerking. It is a consequence of vascular disease, tumors, or encephalitis, and is drug-resistant.\n\nGeneralized myoclonus is commonly seen in comatose people following CPR and is seen by some as an indication of catastrophic damage to the neocortex.\n\nRefractory status epilepticus is defined as status epilepticus that continues despite treatment with benzodiazepines and one antiepileptic drug.\n\nSuper-refractory status epilepticus is defined as status epilepticus that continues or recurs 24 hours or more after the onset of anaesthetic therapy, including those cases where status epilepticus recurs on the reduction or withdrawal of anesthesia.\n\nNonconvulsive status epilepticus is a relatively long duration change in a person's level of consciousness without large scale bending and extension of the limbs due to seizure activity. It is of two main types with either prolonged complex partial seizures or absence seizures. Up to a quarter of cases of SE are nonconvulsive.\n\nIn the case of complex partial status epilepticus, the seizure is confined to a small area of the brain, normally the temporal lobe. Absence status epilepticus is marked by a generalized seizure affecting the whole brain. An EEG is needed to differentiate between the two conditions. This results in episodes characterized by a long-lasting stupor, staring, and unresponsiveness.\n\nOnly 25% of people who experience seizures or status epilepticus have epilepsy. The following is a list of possible causes:\n\nDefinitions vary, but currently it is defined as one continuous, unremitting seizure lasting longer than five minutes, or recurrent seizures without regaining consciousness between seizures for greater than five minutes. Previous definitions used a 30-minute time limit.\n\nNonconvulsive status epilepticus is believed to be under-diagnosed.\n\nBenzodiazepines are the preferred initial treatment after which typically phenytoin or fosphenytoin is given. First aid guidelines for seizures state that, as a rule, an ambulance should be called for seizures lasting longer than five minutes (or sooner if this is the person's first seizure episode and no precipitating factors are known, or if SE happens to a person with epilepsy whose seizures were previously absent or well controlled for a considerable time period).\n\nWhen given intravenously, lorazepam appears to be superior to diazepam for stopping seizure activity. Intramuscular midazolam appears to be a reasonable option especially in those who are not in hospital.\n\nThe benzodiazepine of choice in North America for initial treatment is lorazepam, due to its relatively long duration of action (2–8 hours) when injected, and rapid onset of action, which is thought to be due to its high affinity for GABA receptors and low lipid solubility, which causes it to remain in the vascular compartment. If lorazepam is not available, or intravenous access is not possible, then diazepam should be given.\n\nIn several countries outside North America, intravenous clonazepam is regarded as the drug of first choice. For instance, a guideline from the Netherlands recommends clonazepam. Cited advantages of clonazepam include a longer duration of action than diazepam, and a lower propensity for the development of acute tolerance than lorazepam. The use of clonazepam for this indication has not caught on in North America, as it is not available as an intravenous formulation there.\n\nParticularly in children, another popular treatment choice is midazolam, given into the side of the mouth or the nose. Sometimes, the failure of lorazepam alone is considered to be enough to classify a case of SE as resistant to treatment.\n\nPhenytoin was once another first-line therapy, although the prodrug fosphenytoin can be administered three times as fast and with far fewer injection site reactions. If these or any other hydantoin derivatives are used, then cardiac monitoring is a must if they are administered intravenously. Because the hydantoins take 15–30 minutes to work, a benzodiazepine or barbiturate is often coadministered. Because of diazepam's short duration of action, they were often administered together anyway.\n\nBefore the benzodiazepines were invented, there were the barbiturates, which are still used today if benzodiazepines or the hydantoins are not an option. These are used to induce a barbituric coma. The barbiturate most commonly used for this is phenobarbital. Thiopental or pentobarbital may also be used for that purpose if the seizures have to be stopped immediately or if the person has already been compromised by the underlying illness or toxic/metabolic-induced seizures; however, in those situations, thiopental is the agent of choice.\n\nValproate is available to be given intravenously, and may be used for status epilepticus. Carbamazepine is not available in an intravenous formulation, and does not play a role in status epilepticus.\n\nIf this proves ineffective or if barbiturates cannot be used for some reason, then a general anesthetic such as propofol may be tried; sometimes it is used second after the failure of lorazepam. This also means putting the people on artificial ventilation. Propofol has been shown to be effective in suppressing the jerks seen in myoclonus status epilepticus.\n\nKetamine, an NMDA antagonist drug, can be used as a last resort for drug-resistant status epilepticus.\n\nLidocaine has been used in cases that do not improve with other more typical medications. One concern is that seizures often begin again 30 minutes after it is stopped. Additionally, it is not recommended in those with heart or liver problems.\n\nBetween 10 and 30% of people who have status epilepticus die within 30 days. The great majority of these people have an underlying brain condition causing their status seizure such as brain tumor, brain infection, brain trauma, or stroke. However, people with diagnosed epilepsy who have a status seizure also have an increased risk of death if their condition is not stabilized quickly, their medication and sleep regimen adapted and adhered to, and stress and other stimulant (seizure trigger) levels controlled.\nHowever, with optimal neurological care, adherence to the medication regimen, and a good prognosis (no other underlying uncontrolled brain or other organic disease), the person—even people who have been diagnosed with epilepsy—in otherwise good health can survive with minimal or no brain damage, and can decrease risk of death and even avoid future seizures.\n\nIn the United States, about 40 cases of SE occur annually per 100,000 people. This includes about 10–20% of all first seizures.\n\nAllopregnanolone is being studied in a clinical trial by the Mayo Clinic to treat super-resistant status epilepticus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880085", "title": "Sugar Money", "text": "Sugar Money\n\nSugarMoney is a band by Bo Bice, the runner up on the fourth season of American Idol. Members include: John \"Coop\" Cooper on bass, Shane Sexton on drums, Kris Bell on guitar, Heath Clark on guitar and Thomas Lee on keyboards.\n\nBo, John and Shane played together for several years prior to Bo auditioning for American Idol and were in several bands together before settling into SugarMoney (including Purge and Blue Suede Nickel). Their CD, \"Recipe for Flavor\" was recorded in 2000.\n\nIn April 2005, Kris relocated to Nashville and met Shane and John while auditioning for a country cover band. The chemistry was instant and within a couple of weeks, Kris met Bo and was asked to join the band. In the words of John Cooper, \"One word will sum this up...destiny.\" Kris first appeared with the band in October 2005 at BayFest in Mobile, Alabama.\n\nThomas Lee's connection to the band began when Kris joined. Both were natives of the San Diego music scene and that summer, Thomas also relocated to Nashville and joined SugarMoney. Thomas first appeared on stage with SugarMoney at BayFest (Mobile, AL), shortly after joining the band. \n\nOver the next few months the band continued to play live shows (including a benefit for victims of Hurricane Katrina and an appearance at Cleveland's House of Blues) and TV gigs promoting Bo's debut CD, \"The Real Thing\", including LIVE! With Regis and Kelly and Jimmy Kimmel Live!. \n\nIn early 2006 Heath Clark was one of eight guitarists to audition for the band and several members have said the connection was instant, he was meant to be a part of SugarMoney. Heath first appeared with the band in March 2006 during their second performance on LIVE! With Regis and Kelly, just days after joining the band. \n\nSugarMoney appears on three tracks on \"The Real Thing\" Dual Disc version: Cinnamon & Novocaine, Sinner In A Sin, Whiskey, Women & Time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880095", "title": "Edward J. Ballard", "text": "Edward J. Ballard\n\nEdward J. Ballard (about 1790 – 1 June 1813) was an officer in the United States Navy during the War of 1812.\n\nBallard was appointed a midshipman on 24 February 1809. He was killed during the engagement between and on 1 June 1813. His commission as a lieutenant was issued before news of the battle reached the Navy Department.\n\nTwo ships have been named for him.\n"}
{"id": "1880110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880110", "title": "Neodiapsida", "text": "Neodiapsida\n\nNeodiapsida is a clade, or major branch, of the reptilian family tree and includes all diapsids apart from some early primitive types known as the araeoscelidians.\n\nIn phylogenetic systematics, they are variously defined as the common ancestor and all its descendants of Younginiforms and \"crown diapsids\" (the common ancestor of lizards, crocodilians and birds, and all their descendants) [Callaway 1997], or all diapsids that are more closely related to Sauria than to Araeoscelidia (Laurin and Gauthier 2000).\n\nEarly or basal Permian neodiaspids were lizard-like, but already include specialised forms for swimming (\"Claudiosaurus\") and gliding (Coelurosauravidae), as well as more conventional lizard-like forms (\"Youngina\" etc.). Before the end of the Permian, the neodiapsids give rise to the main branches of the diapsid evolutionary tree, the lepidosaurs and archosaurs.\n\nThe clade Neodiapsida was given a phylogenetic definition by Laurin in 1991. He defined it as the branch-based clade containing all animals more closely related to \"Younginiformes\" (later, more specifically, emended to \"Youngina capensis\") than to \"Petrolacosaurus\". The cladogram presented here illustrates the \"family tree\" of reptiles, and follows a simplified version of the relationships found by M.S. Lee, in 2013. All genetic studies have supported the hypothesis that turtles are diapsid reptiles; some have placed turtles within archosauromorpha, or, more commonly, as a sister group to extant archosaurs. though a few have recovered turtles as lepidosauromorphs instead. The cladogram below used a combination of genetic (molecular) and fossil (morphological) data to obtain its results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880116", "title": "Götz von Berlichingen", "text": "Götz von Berlichingen\n\nGottfried \"Götz\" von Berlichingen (1480 – 23 July 1562), also known as Götz of the Iron Hand, was a German (Franconian) Imperial Knight (\"Reichsritter\"), mercenary, and poet. He was born around 1480 into the noble family of Berlichingen in modern-day Baden-Württemberg. Götz bought Hornberg Castle (Neckarzimmern) in 1517, and lived there until his death in 1562.\n\nHe was active in numerous military campaigns during a period of 47 years from 1498 to 1544, including the German Peasants' War, besides numerous feuds; in his autobiography he estimates that he fought 15 feuds in his own name, besides many cases where he lent assistance to his friends, including feuds against the cities of Cologne, Ulm, Augsburg and the Swabian League, as well as the bishop of Bamberg.\n\nHis name became famous as a euphemism for a vulgar expression (\"Er kann mich am Arsch lecken\" – \"He can lick my ass\" though in the play it is written as \"He can kiss my ass\") attributed to him by writer and poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832), who wrote a play based on his life.\n\nIn 1497, Berlichingen entered the service of Frederick I, Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach. In 1498, he fought in the armies of Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, seeing action in Burgundy, Lorraine, and the Brabant, and in the Swabian War the following year. By 1500, Berlichingen had left the service of Frederick of Brandenburg, and formed a company of mercenaries, selling his services to various Dukes, Margraves, and Barons.\n\nIn 1504, Berlichingen and his mercenary army fought for Albert IV, Duke of Bavaria. During the siege of the city of Landshut, he lost his right arm at the wrist when enemy cannon fire forced his sword against him. He had two mechanical prosthetic iron replacements made. The first iron hand was a more simple device, claimed to have been made by a local blacksmith and a saddle maker. The second, more famous prosthetic hand was capable of holding objects from a shield or reins to a quill. Both are on display today at the Burg Jagsthausen. In spite of this injury, Berlichingen continued his military activities. In the subsequent years he was involved in numerous feuds, both of his own and in support of friends and employers.\n\nIn 1512, near the town of Forchheim, due to a long running and bitter feud with Nuremberg he raided a group of Nuremberg merchants returning from the great fair at Leipzig. On hearing this, Emperor Maximilian placed Berlichingen under an Imperial ban. He was only released from this in 1514, when he paid the large sum of 14,000 gulden. In 1516, in a feud with the Principality of Mainz and its Prince-Archbishop, Berlichingen and his company mounted a raid into Hesse, capturing Philip IV, Count of Waldeck, in the process. A ransom of 8,400 gulden was paid for the safe return of the count. For this action, he was again placed under an Imperial ban in 1518.\n\nIn 1519, he signed up in the service of Ulrich, Duke of Württemberg, who was at war with the Swabian League. He fought in the defence of Möckmühl, but eventually was forced to surrender the town, owing to a lack of supplies and ammunition. In violation of the terms of surrender, he was held prisoner and handed over to the citizens of Heilbronn, a town he had raided several times. His fellow knights Georg von Frundsberg and Franz von Sickingen successfully argued for his release in 1522, but only after he paid a ransom of 2,000 gulden and swore not to take vengeance on the League.\n\nIn 1525, with the outbreak of the German Peasants' War, Berlichingen led the rebel army in the district of Odenwald against the Ecclesiastical Princes of the Holy Roman Empire. Despite this, he was (according to his own account) not a fervent supporter of their cause. He agreed to lead the rebels partly because he had no other option, and partly in an effort to curb the excesses of the rebellion. Despite his wishes to stop wanton violence, Berlichingen found himself powerless to control the rebels and after a month of nominal leadership he deserted his command and returned to the Burg Jagsthausen to sit out the rest of the rebellion in his castle.\n\nAfter the Imperial victory, he was called before the Diet of Speyer to account for his actions. On 17 October 1526, he was acquitted by the Imperial chamber. Despite this, in November 1528 he was lured to Augsburg by the Swabian League, who were eager to settle old scores. After reaching Augsburg under promise of safe passage, and while preparing to clear himself of the old charges against him made by the league, he was seized and made prisoner until 1530 when he was liberated, but only after repeating his oath of 1522 and agreeing to return to his Burg Hornberg and remain in that area.\n\nBerlichingen agreed to this, and remained near the Hornberg until Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, released him from his oath in 1540. He served under Charles in the 1542 campaign against the Ottoman Empire of Suleyman the Magnificent in Hungary, and in 1544 in the Imperial invasion of France under Francis I of France. After the French campaign, Berlichingen returned to the Hornberg and lived out the rest of his life in relative peace. He died on 23 July 1562 in Hornberg Castle at the age of 81 or 82. Berlichingen married twice and left three daughters and seven sons to carry on his family name.\n\nGötz left an autobiography in manuscript form (\"Rossacher Handschrift\"). The text was published in 1731 as \"Lebens-Beschreibung des Herrn Gözens von Berlichingen\" (\"Biography of Sir Götz von Berlichingen\"), and republished in 1843 as \"Ritterliche Thaten Götz von Berlichingen's mit der eisernen Hand\" (\"Knightly Deeds of Götz von Berlichingen with the Iron Hand\") (ed. M. A. Gessert). A scholarly edition of the manuscript text was published in 1981 by Helgard Ulmschneider as \"Mein Fehd und Handlungen \" (\"My Feuds and Actions\").\n\nGoethe in 1773 published the play \"Götz von Berlichingen\" based on the 1731 edition of the autobiography.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre's play \"Le Diable et le Bon Dieu\" features Götz as an existentialist character.\n\nThe Waffen-SS 17th SS Panzergrenadier Division Götz von Berlichingen in World War II was named after him.\n\nThe and each bore the emblem of a \"War Glove\" with the legend \"Götz von Berlichingen!,\" while an emblem used by the \"U-69\" pictured signal flags spelling out \"\"L.M.A.\"\" --an initialism of the famed vulgar quote. \n\nFrom commissioning in June 1958 until decommissioning in June 2006, the 2nd Fast Patrol Boat Squadron (2. Schnellbootgeschwader) of the German Navy used the clenched 'Iron Fist' of Götz von Berlichingen in the center of their squadron crest.\n\nDuring World War II, one of the armed merchant cruisers sent by the \"Kriegsmarine\" to Japan was named \"Götz von Berlichingen\" by its captain after Kriegsmarine HQ rejected his initial suggestion \"Michael\". The swap may refer to Berlichingen's famous imprecation: \"Er kann mich im Arsche lecken\" (\"he can lick me in the arse\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880117", "title": "Expeller pressing", "text": "Expeller pressing\n\nExpeller pressing (also called oil pressing) is a mechanical method for extracting oil from raw materials. The raw materials are squeezed under high pressure in a single step. When used for the extraction of food oils, typical raw materials are nuts, seeds and algae, which are supplied to the press in a continuous feed. As the raw material is pressed, friction causes it to heat. In the case of harder nuts (which require higher pressures) the material can exceed temperatures of .\n\nAn expeller press is a screw-type machine that mainly presses oil seeds through a caged barrel-like cavity. Other materials used with an expeller press include (but are not limited to) meat by-products, synthetic rubber and animal feeds. Raw materials enter one side of the press and waste products exit the other side. The machine uses friction and continuous pressure from the screw drive to move and compress the seed material. The oil seeps through small openings that do not allow seed fiber solids to pass. Afterward, the pressed seeds are formed into a hardened cake, which is removed from the machine. Pressure involved in expeller pressing creates heat in the range of . Raw materials are typically heated up to to make the pressing more efficient, otherwise the pressing itself will heat the oil to . Some companies claim that they use a cooling apparatus to reduce this temperature to protect certain properties of the oils being extracted.\n\nExpeller processing cannot remove every last trace of liquid (usually oil) from the raw material. A significant amount remains trapped inside the cake remaining after pressing. In most small-scale rural situations this is of little import, as the remaining cake after oil extraction finds uses in local dishes, in the manufacture of secondary products, or in animal feed. Some raw materials do not release oil by expelling, the most notable being rice bran. To remove oil from commodities that do not respond to expelling or to extract the final traces of oil after expelling, it is necessary to use solvent extraction.\n\nThe earliest expeller presses utilized a continuous screw design. The compression screws were much like the screws of a screw conveyor—that is, the helicoid flighting started at one end and ended at the other.\n\nValerius Anderson invented the interrupted screw design and patented it in the year 1900. Anderson observed that in the continuous flighting arrangement of a compression screw, there are tendencies for slippery materials either to co-rotate with the screw or to pass through with minimal dewatering. He wrote that \"brewers' slops, slaughterhouse refuse\" and other \"soft and mushy\" materials dewater poorly in continuous screw presses.\n\nHis invention consisted of putting interruptions in the flighting of a compression screw. It was much like having a hanger bearing in a screw conveyor: there is no flighting on the shaft at that point, so material tends to stop moving and pile up. It is only after solids accumulate in the gap that the downstream flighting catches material. When this happens, material is forced along its way. The result is better dewatering and thus a more consistent press cake.\n\nAfter the 1900 patent, a major improvement was made with the addition of resistor teeth. Fitted into the gaps where there is no flighting, these teeth increase the agitation within the press, further diminishing co-rotation tendencies.\n\nAs the years passed, applications of the interrupted screw design expanded beyond slippery and slimy materials. This happened because competing continuous screw presses worked best only under conditions of constant feed, at constant consistency. If either the consistency or the flow rate diminished, squeezing would diminish until it was inadequate for proper moisture removal. At the same time, if the consistency increased, the press could jam. To counteract these tendencies it was necessary to build a heavy press, frequently with a costly variable speed drive.\n\nIn contrast, it was found that the interruptions in the flighting of the Anderson screw would provide cushion within the press. If consistency decreased, compression was still effective. A plug of sufficiently solid material had to build up at each interruption before solids could progress toward the discharge. This self-correcting performance prevents wet material from purging at the cake discharge. It is achieved without varying the speed of the screw.\n\nThe economic advantages of these characteristics led to interrupted screw presses being used to dewater fibrous materials that are neither slippery nor slimy. Examples would be alfalfa, corn husk, and, more recently, paper mill fibers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880123", "title": "Dalmar Abuzeid", "text": "Dalmar Abuzeid\n\nDalmar Abuzeid (born October 23, 1990) is a Canadian actor, best known for his roles in \"\" and \"Anne with an E\".\n\nAbuzeid played the character Danny Van Zandt on the CTV/The N series \"\". He also plays a main role on the Teletoon series \"Majority Rules!\". He has guest-starred as Jimmy Wilson on the TV show \"Wild Card\" and in the 2014 film \"Pompeii\". He has also been a host of TVOKids, and the Kids CBC series \"Snapshots\".\n\nAbuzeid portrayed Bash in the second season of \"Anne with an E\"; this marked the first time that a black character has been featured since the franchise's inception. He won the Canadian Screen Award for Best Guest Performance in a Drama Series at the 8th Canadian Screen Awards in 2020.\n\nAbuzeid played bass in the band SoundSpeed, a six-piece music group that also included four other Degrassi cast members Raymond Ablack (lead vocalist), Jamie Johnston (guitarist), Shane Kippel (drums) and Scott Paterson (keytar). They released a three-song EP in January 2010 but they're not playing together as a band.\n"}
{"id": "1880126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880126", "title": "Combat flight simulation game", "text": "Combat flight simulation game\n\nCombat flight simulators are simulation video games (similar to amateur flight simulation software) used to simulate military aircraft and their operations. These are distinct from dedicated flight simulators used for professional pilot and military flight training which consist of realistic physical recreations of the actual aircraft cockpit, often with a full-motion platform.\n\nCombat flight simulation titles are more numerous than civilian flight simulators due to the variety of subject matter available and market demand. Many free flight simulators, such as \"Digital Combat Simulator\" and \"Falcon 4.0\", can be downloaded for free off of the Internet.\n\nPrior to the rise of modern-day video games, electro-mechanical games were produced that used rear image projection in a manner similar to the ancient zoetrope to produce moving animations on a screen. This technology led to the rise of arcade games, as well as the first simulation video games in the late 1960s. One such electro-mechanical game was \"Jet Rocket\", a flight simulator released by Sega in 1970 that featured cockpit controls that could move the player's aircraft around a landscape displayed on a screen and shoot missiles at targets that would explode when hit. In 1975, Taito released the arcade video game simulator \"Interceptor\", an early first-person combat flight simulator that involved piloting a jet fighter using an eight-way joystick to aim and shoot at enemy aircraft.\n\nThe 1980s experienced a wave of more advanced simulation video games with companies such as Atari Inc. releasing their own game called \"Red Baron in 1980,\" which used QuadraScan graphics and sound effects to simulate first-person flight combat. Other games such as the earliest version of \"Microsoft Flight Simulator\" (1982) had crude graphics, simple flight models, and a combat option with \"dog fighting\" in a World War I Sopwith Camel. Shortly after \"Microsoft Flight Simulator\" was released for the 8-bit computer, Microsoft released \"Jet\" in 1985. This simulator used simple filled wire frame graphics and a small generic battle space to allow players to fight MiGs in an F-18 or F-16. There were also titles released for the Atari 2600 that simulated flight combat, two examples being Mattel's \"Air Raiders\" (1982) and Milton Bradley's \"Spitfire Attack\" (1983).\n\nDuring the 1990s and early 2000s, there was a transition from traditional video game platforms like arcades, to consoles such as the original PlayStation, for their ability to be played at home. PC games remained popular during this time, as many publishers continued to produces games primarily for the PC platform. Due to the limitations and the relative simplicity of the controllers available for gaming consoles at the time, flight simulators remained largely absent from consoles for years to come. Several rival publishers rose during this period such as NovaLogic with titles like the \"Comanche Series\" that simulated helicopter combat, and Electronic Arts with Jane's \"WWII Fighters\" which improved upon features such as detailed visible damage. Newer software in the genre include (2005), Digital Combat Simulator (2008) and Rise of Flight (2009). On consoles, Namco launched \"Air Combat\" (1995) for the original PlayStation, which later became the \"Ace Combat\" series.\n\nCombat flight simulators are classified according to their historical period, type of aircraft, and level of detail. This method of classifying means that many simulators belong to more than one category, which leads to arguments about what can be considered actual simulations instead of games. Generally, simulations are expected to be imitations of real-world technology, while games are not; therefore, every game with flying in them does not fit into the category of \"flight simulation.\"\n\nSimulator realism can be classified as the following:\nThe tables below define rough guidelines of what might classify as combat flight simulation games.\n\nA survey simulation is a classification of simulator that includes a variety (or survey) of aircraft from the period in question. This type of classification applies to many historical combat simulators, and typically includes aircraft from all nations participating in the conflict. Early simulators suffered from flight models and instrument panels that differed little between aircraft. As the technology got better, so did the diversity of aircraft, which forced the virtual pilot to learn the carefully modelled strengths and weaknesses of the various types of aircraft (e.g. the different fighting and flying styles of a Spitfire versus a Messerschmitt 109 in IL-2 Sturmovik or a Mitsubishi Zero versus a US Navy F4F Wildcat in Combat Flight Simulator 2).\n\nModern jet survey simulators have been developed as well, such as \"US Navy Fighters (USNF)\" and \"Jane's USAF\" by Jane's/Electronic Arts, typically with simplified and generic modelling of radar, navigation, and weapons. The turn of the century saw advancements in technology that increased the capabilities of these simulators, simplifying and improving their weapon handling and flight models, as well as updated visuals. Titles featuring these improvements include Jane's Combat Simulations, a line of flight simulations originally developed by Electronic Arts and later continued by the company Third Wire, as well as the series and Wings over Europe.\n\nThe \"study sim\" is a genre of simulation games that focuses on modelling an aircraft's systems as accurately as possible. Advancing computer technology made this possible, with the development of highly detailed models that improved upon the fidelity of avionics, weapons systems, physics, flight models, graphics, etc. and allowed for fully interactive cockpits where virtually every control was mapped and functional. This was important as modern jet combat aircraft and helicopters have a variety of complex electronic and weapon systems that are specific to a particular aircraft.\n\nEarly iterations of simulators in this genre include the release of EF2000 by Digital Image Design (DiD) which quickly garnered a dedicated following, including a user group that produced a detailed online manual of weapons and tactics, as well as the popular \"Falcon 4.0,\" a detailed simulation of the USAF F-16 Fighting Falcon. Other development of these simulators includes a collaborative and specialized effort between Electronic Arts and Jane's in the 1990s, with titles such as \"Jane's Longbow\", \"Jane's Longbow 2\", \"Jane's F-15\" and \"Jane's F/A-18\".\n\nHelicopter simulations began in 1986 with the title \"Gunship\" by MicroProse. Nine years later, in 1995, Digital Integration released \"Apache Longbow,\" the most sophisticated helicopter simulation of the time. In 1996 it was exceeded by \"Jane's AH-64D Longbow,\" a game created by Origin Systems and released by Electronic Arts as part of the Jane's Combat Simulator series. The sequel, \"Jane's Longbow 2\" (1997), was one of the earliest simulations to take advantage of hardware accelerated graphics, including advanced lighting. 1998 saw the release of by Empire Interactive, which allowed players to choose to fly for either the US or Russia.\n\nThe sophistication and intricacy of these simulators continued to grow, and in 2008 the \"Digital Combat Simulator (DCS)\" released \",\" the first of a series of simulations that featured a complete and detailed cockpit with all the relevant switches accurately modelled and functional, and mapped over 500 key-commands. DCS also supported a variety of input devices aside from the traditional joystick, throttle, and pedals, featuring built-in support for TrackIR and Virtual Reality with 6 degrees of freedom which, in conjunction with the interactive 3D-cockpit, created a very realistic experience.\n\nModern jet simulators are usually classified by their historical context or level of details (\"study\" versus \"survey\"). There have been many modern jet sims that concentrate on existing fighters (several AV-8 Harrier II sims, and others such as \"Fleet Defender\" by MicroProse, and \"F22 lightning 3 and F-22 Raptor by NovaLogic)\", whereas others concentrate on future fighters (e.g., \"F-22 Total Air War\" by Digital Image Design in 1998). While many simulators either classify as a study sim or a survey sim, \"\" is an example of a game that attempts to bridge the study/survey gap with highly detailed models of several US and Russian aircraft.\n\nBefore multiplayer games becoming popular, many simulators could only be played by a single player. This continued to be the standard until the late 1990s when most titles included some sort of multi-player/network capability. In single-player combat simulators, every entity other than the players' own aircraft are controlled by the program's \"AI\" (artificial intelligence), and modern video games create very sophisticated and intelligent AI with independent behaviour for adversaries and allies. Multiplayer games, which usually also contain AI, allow players to oppose one or many human players. After the growth of the internet, many simulators were created that exist only or primarily as internet multiplayer versions (e.g., \"Air Warrior\", the massively multiplayer \"Fighter Ace\", \"WarBirds\", \"Aces High\", \"World War II Online\", \"Ace Online\", \"War Thunder\", \"Fighter Wing 2\" and others).\n\nMany players of both video games and simulators seek games for their replay value. Simulators enhance the replay value by offering a variety of single missions consisting of short, randomly generated missions as well as longer campaigns consisting of several smaller mission or objectives. Most campaigns are \"dynamic flowing,\" which means they change according to the results of each successive mission (e.g. if the player destroys a \"target of opportunity\" which turns out to be a truck carrying an enemy leader, then the campaign starts to take a different path). Some campaign models have been developed which are fully dynamic, and where successive missions take place in an environment which is persistent (if a building is destroyed in one mission, it remains destroyed in the next and will only be rebuilt in view of limited resources, realistic time and strategic priorities, etc.). A notable pioneer in this area was Andy Hollis, producer of the \"Jane's Longbow\" series. Digital Image Design, with their release of \"F-22 Total Air War\" in 1998, allowed for a transparency into the larger strategic battlefield by use of multiple screens and a \"God's eye view.\" Many simulators also include \"mission builders\" which allow the player to create their own missions.\n\nCombat flight simulators are among the most computer and graphics demanding applications at any given time, as they are real-time applications with multiple processes happening at once. This leads many simulation fans to constantly upgrade their hardware, including the most advanced graphics cards. These sims have also given rise to a variety of hardware add-ons such as \"HOTAS\" (hands on throttle and stick) controllers that allow full control of most functions without touching the keyboard. Voice control and head-tracking view control systems are also available for home flight sim enthusiasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880127", "title": "USS Ballard", "text": "USS Ballard\n\nTwo ships of the United States Navy have been named Ballard, after Edward J. Ballard.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880136", "title": "Victorian Bar", "text": "Victorian Bar\n\nThe Victorian Bar is the Bar association for the Australian State of Victoria. The current President of the Bar is Wendy Harris QC. The CEO is Katherine Lorenz. Its members are barristers registered to practice in Victoria. On 12 December 2019 there were 2212 counsel practising as members of the Victorian Bar. Those who have been admitted to practice by the Supreme Court of Victoria, are eligible to join the Victorian Bar after sitting an entrance exam and completing a Bar readers' course. The Victorian Bar is affiliated with the Australian Bar Association and is a member of the Law Council of Australia.\n\nThe first association of barristers in Victoria was formed in 1884, although the first barristers admitted to practice in Victoria were appointed in 1841. On 20 June 1900 an official Bar Council was established, and a Bar Roll was started. By 1902, all barristers practising in Melbourne had signed the Roll. To this day, new barristers sign the Roll when they are admitted to the Bar.\n\nThe Victorian Bar’s mission is to foster the independence, excellence, leadership and growth of its members individually and as a profession. The Victorian Bar supports its members and the community by delivering services to promote the better administration of justice and the rule of law, enhance the reputation, effectiveness and cohesion of the Bar and the profession, and ensure the well-being of its members.\n\nAs at June 2019, 30% of barristers at the Victorian Bar were women, and women made up 43% of those with less than 10 years’ practising at the Bar. In 2019, 15% of members were born outside of Australia and 18 languages other than English were spoken at home. Six women have served as Chairs or Presidents of the Bar, including Susan Crennan AC QC, Kate McMillian SC (now the Honourable Justice McMillian), Melanie Sloss SC (now the Honourable Justice Sloss), Fiona McLeod SC, Jennifer Batrouney QC, and the current President Wendy Harris QC. The immediate past-President is Dr Matthew Collins AM QC. \n\nIn 2000, the Victorian Bar launched a Legal Assistance Scheme in association with the Public Interest Law Clearing House, in order to coordinate \"pro bono\" work among barristers in Victoria. Chief Justice of Australia Murray Gleeson praised the Bar for its effort in \"\"making access to justice not only a catch-phrase but a practical reality for many people\".\" The Legal Assistance Scheme, now operating as the 'Pro Bono Scheme' (the Scheme) and PILCH, now operating as Justice Connect, has approximately 1000 participants from the Victorian Bar.\n\nOverseen by the Pro Bono Committee, the Scheme provides assistance to both individuals and community groups. This work includes advocating for human rights, environmental or social justice causes, and helping people who are marginalised, or from disadvantaged backgrounds. The premise of the Scheme is to ensure that everyone has access to legal representation regardless of age, gender, race, disability or socio-economic hardship.\n\nIn 2016, the Victorian Bar endorsed the National Model Gender Equitable Briefing Policy, launched by the Law Council of Australia to achieve a nationally consistent approach towards bringing about cultural and attitudinal change within the legal profession with respect to gender briefing practices. The Victorian Bar has also adopted the Law Council’s Diversity and Equality Charter. The Commercial Bar Association of Victoria, members of the Judiciary and the Victorian Equal Opportunity and Human Rights Commission have also launched the CommBar Equitable Briefing Initiative to increase briefing of women at all levels, and to engage with the law firms that brief the Commercial Bar to commit to real change. \n\nIn 2018/19, the Bar Council established three new working groups to broaden the conversation about diversity at the Bar to include LGBTI, disability and accessibility, and race, ethnicity and cultural diversity.\n\nTo become a barrister in Victoria you must:\n\n\nAll lawyers in Australia must first be admitted to practice. In Victoria the process for admission is conducted by the Victorian Legal Board of Admissions (VLAB). If you have qualified and/or been admitted in a country other than Australia the relevant information can be found on the VLAB website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880137", "title": "Theodore J. Mooney", "text": "Theodore J. Mooney\n\nTheodore J. Mooney is a fictional character on the 1960s CBS situation comedy \"The Lucy Show\", portrayed by Gale Gordon.\n\nMooney was the president of the local bank in Lucy Carmichael's (Lucille Ball) hometown of Danfield. As such, he was also the trustee of an apparently sizable trust fund of which the widowed Mrs. Carmichael was the beneficiary, left to her by her late husband. Much of the series' humor in its early episodes was based around Lucy's attempts to get Mooney to allow her to invade the principal of the trust, with Mooney steadfastly resisting Lucy's often harebrained schemes. Gordon joined the show at the beginning of its second season in September 1963, and in a two-part episode that introduced the character, the tone of their frequently antagonistic relationship was immediately set, as Lucy accidentally locked herself and Mooney in the bank vault overnight. Gordon was to have joined the series at its premiere in 1962, but he was still contractually obligated to his role as Mr. Wilson on \"Dennis the Menace\". Consequently, Charles Lane played the similar Mr. Barnsdahl character in \"The Lucy Show\"’s first season.\n\nEventually, Lucy had spent so much of her time and efforts at the bank that it seemed logical to make her a paid bank employee, and she became such, serving as Mooney's secretary. In the series' later years, both Mooney and Lucy moved to California, where Mooney became vice president of a larger bank and Lucy again served as his secretary. The Mooney character's role expanded with the shift in locale to California, as \"The Lucy Show\"'s other costar, Vivian Vance, left the series at the same time. Mooney became a key figure in nearly every episode from this point on. The Mooney character is best remembered for his ill-temper and shouting outbursts at the incompetent \"Mrs. Carmichael\". During their time in Danfield, he also did battle with Lucy's school friend, the Countess Framboise (née Rosie Harrigan, and played by Ann Sothern), who had been widowed herself by her husband, who was badly in debt. Since she was looking for money to pay off his debts, she crossed swords with Mr. Mooney, whom she invariably called \"Mr. Money\".\n\nWhen \"The Lucy Show\" ended in 1968, Gordon moved to Ball's new show \"Here's Lucy\" in the role of Lucy's brother-in-law, Harry Carter, a character similar in temperament and demeanor to Mooney. He remained with the new program until it left the CBS lineup in 1974. He then played the similar character Curtis McGibbon on the short-lived \"Life with Lucy\" in 1986. Gordon would reprise the character one last time in the first episode of the 1991 sitcom \"Hi Honey, I'm Home!\"\n"}
{"id": "1880139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880139", "title": "Clearing, Chicago", "text": "Clearing, Chicago\n\nClearing, one of the 77 semi-official community areas, is located on the southwest side of the city of Chicago, Illinois. The southern portion of Chicago Midway International Airport is located within this community area.\n\nThe history of Clearing begins shrouded in mystery. An anomalous subdivision began showing up in maps as early as 1870. Local author and historian Robert Hill calls this the \"Lost Village\". This subdivision appears between present day Nashville and Narragansett and between 59th and 63rd streets. Though when names appear, they are different from what they are currently. For example, Narragansett is Major.\n\nThe area gets its name from the fact that farm goods from the area were \"cleared\" (delivered) through the airport and railroad yards. Clearing was first incorporated as a town in 1912, within the Township of Stickney. The Clearing area quickly became a part of Chicago in 1915 because the growing population needed services provided by the city. It is bordered on the west by Harlem Avenue, on the east by railroad tracks just east of Cicero Ave., to the North by 59th street and to the south by 65th street. The southern portion of Midway Airport is in Clearing.\n\nThe Clearing Industrial District was founded in 1909.\n\nLawler Park (), is located in Clearing. Created in 1947, Lawler Park is home to organized Little League softball, a brick recreation building, sandboxes, and other playground equipment. Hale Park and Nathan Hale Elementary School, at 61st and Melvina, are also located in Clearing. Hale Park is home to an outdoor swimming pool, field house, ball fields, and playground equipment.\n\nChrysler Village is on the eastern edge of the Chicago neighborhood of Clearing nestled between Midway Airport and the Clearing Industrial District. Beginning at Lavergne Avenue on the east and extending to Long Avenue on the West the sturdy brick single family, duplex and townhouse homes surround Lawler Park and were constructed in 1943 during World War II to house the Chrysler Defense Plant workers building the B29 Bomber Engines in the huge plant later housing the Ford Aircraft Engine Division, builders of the B52 Bomber Engines and now known as Ford City.\n\nClearing has supported the Democratic nominee in the past two presidential elections. In the 2016 presidential election, Clearing cast 5,601 votes for Hillary Clinton and cast 3,139 votes for Donald Trump (61.37%-34.39%). In the 2012 presidential election, Clearing cast 5,147 votes for Barack Obama and cast 2,764 votes for Mitt Romney (64.19%-34.47%).\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago operates Catholic churches. On July 1, 2020, St. Rene Parish and St. Symphorosa Parish will merge together.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880149", "title": "William Shubrick", "text": "William Shubrick\n\nWilliam Branford Shubrick (31 October 1790 – 27 May 1874) was an officer in the United States Navy. His active-duty career extended from 1806 to 1861, including service in the War of 1812 and the Mexican–American War; he was placed on the retired list in the early months of the Civil War.\n\nBorn at \"Belvedere Plantation,\" Bull's Island, South Carolina (now an undeveloped barrier island within the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge), to Mary Branford and Colonel Thomas Shubrick, William was the sixth son and ninth child of the family of sixteen. His father served in the Continental Army under Generals Nathanael Greene and Benjamin Lincoln during the American Revolutionary War. Two of his sons joined the army and four sons including William chose naval career. He briefly studied at Harvard College in 1805-1806 before being commissioned a midshipman on June 20, 1806 at the age of sixteen joining his older brother, John Templer Shubrick.\n\nHe started his active service on the Mediterranean Squadron in USS \"Wasp\" in May 1807. It was aboard this ship where he met his lifelong friend James Fenimore Cooper, who was assigned to the \"Wasp\" in November 1809. At the end of 1809, Shubrick transferred to the Atlantic Squadron to \"Argus\" and sailed along the Atlantic coast of the United States.\n\nShubrick was promoted to lieutenant on January 5, 1812 on the eve of the War of 1812. After duty in \"Hornet\", he was assigned to \"Constellation\". While that frigate was at Norfolk, Virginia, on 22 June 1813 he led a party of bluejackets in beating off a British attack against Craney Island. He subsequently was awarded the Congressional medal for service in \"Constitution\" during her capture of HMS \"Cyane\" and \"Levant\".\n\nDuring the subsequent decades before the Mexican–American War, Shubrick commanded, in turn, \"Lexington\" and \"Natchez\"; directed operation of the West Indies Squadron from 1838 to 1840; and headed the Bureau of Provisions and Clothing from 1845 to 1846.\n\nAt the outbreak of the war with Mexico, Shubrick requested sea duty and, in \"Independence\", sailed for the California coast to relieve Commodore John D. Sloat in command of American Naval forces there. However, Commodore James Biddle brought his East India Squadron to Monterey, California, on 2 January 1847 only a week after Shubrick's arrival, and assumed command. In April, Shubrick sailed for the coast of Mexico to head the blockade of Guaymas and Mazatlán. Early in June, Shubrick was recalled to California where Biddle restored him to overall command on 19 July and sailed for the East Coast.\n\nUnder Shubrick, the Navy successfully conducted the closing operations of the war on the Pacific coast. Highlights were the capture of Guaymas in October and occupation of Mazatlán in November. San Blas fell in January 1848.\n\nThe following spring, Shubrick headed home and took command of the Philadelphia Navy Yard in 1849. Beginning in 1853, he headed the Bureau of Construction and Repair, and between 1854 and 1858, he chaired the Lighthouse Board.\n\nIn October 1858, Shubrick sailed in command of the fleet sent to South American waters to support diplomatic efforts to resolve differences with Paraguay resulting from the firing upon USS \"Water Witch\".\n\nWhen the Civil War struck, Shubrick was the navy's most senior active service officer hailing from the South. He remained loyal to the Union. In December 1861, a law was passed by Congress according to which all navy officers were to retire after reaching sixty-two years or accumulating forty five years of service; Shubrick was placed on the retired list. He was promoted to Rear Admiral on the retired list on 16 July 1862 and for ten years served as Chairman of the United States Lighthouse Board where he was a member since 1852. He died in Washington, D.C., on 27 May 1874.\n\nIn September, 1815, Shubrick married Harriet Cordelia Wethered; they had one child. Three of his brothers were also officers in the United States Navy: John Templar Shubrick (1788–1815), Edward Rutledge Shubrick (1794–1844), and Irvine Shubrick (1798–1849).\n\nSeveral ships in the U.S. Navy have been named USS \"Shubrick\" for him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880150", "title": "5th Panzer Army", "text": "5th Panzer Army\n\n5th Panzer Army () was the name of two different German armoured formations during World War II. The first of these was formed in 1942, during the North African campaign and surrendered to the Allies at Tunis in 1943. The army was re-formed in France in 1944, fought in and surrendered in the Ruhr pocket in 1945.\n\nOn 17 November 1942, the \"Stab Nehring\" staff, assigned to the German general in Rome, was reformed to become the LXXXX Army Corps. This staff was soon repurposed to become the 5th Panzer Army.\n\nThe 5th Panzer Army was created on 8 December 1942 as a command formation for armoured units forming to defend Tunisia against Allied attacks which threatened, after the success of the Allied Operation Torch landings in Algeria and Morocco. The army fought alongside the Italian First Army as a part of Army Group Afrika. The army capitulated on 13 May 1943, along with its commander Gustav von Vaerst. The army was disbanded on 30 June 1943.\n\nThe army was reformed on 24 January 1944 as Panzer Group West, the armoured reserve for OB West. The new army was placed under the command of Leo Geyr von Schweppenburg. The method of employment of Panzer Group West in the event of an allied invasion was the subject of much controversy, with OB West commander Gerd von Rundstedt and Army Group B commander Erwin Rommel favouring different methods. Rundstedt and Geyr von Schweppenburg believed that the panzer group should be held in reserve some distance from the front, to counter-attack Allied penetrations. Rommel was convinced that Allied air power and naval artillery would not allow the Germans the freedom to move large formations and so insisted that the \"panzers\" should be deployed much closer to the front line. Adolf Hitler forced an unhappy compromise on the western commanders and refused to allow them to commit the panzer group without his authority. When the Allied Invasion began on 6 June 1944, Panzer Group West remained immobile; by 8 June, Geyr had been able to rush three panzer divisions northward to defend Caen against British and Canadian forces. Geyr planned to launch the divisions in a counter-attack that would drive the British and Canadians back into the sea. On 10 June, Schweppenburg was wounded in an attack on the Panzer Group West headquarters at La Caine. Geyr's tank units managed to limit the British advance for another month but he was relieved of his command on 2 July, after seconding Rundstedt's request that Hitler authorize a strategic withdrawal from Caen. On 2 July he was replaced by Heinrich Eberbach. The panzer group fought against the Allied forces in Normandy, suffering heavy losses and eventually finding many of its divisions trapped in the Falaise Pocket. After the shattered remnants of the panzer group escaped from Falaise, it began a retreat towards the German border.\n\nIn August, the remaining elements of Panzer Group West were reorganized as 5th Panzer Army, with a combat formation remaining in action under the title Panzer Group Eberbach. After a brief period under Sepp Dietrich, command of the army passed to Hasso von Manteuffel. The army saw heavy combat on the German border against Allied forces, the panzer divisions suffering heavily from Allied ground attack aircraft. In November the 5th Panzer Army began forming up in the Ardennes, alongside the newly formed 6th SS Panzer Army under Dietrich. Both formations took part in the Battle of the Bulge, the Fifth Panzer Army was set to be the main central force advancing westwards from the pre-existing front lines, suffering heavy losses in battles around Bastogne and in the armour battles around Celles and Dinant, the westernmost points of advance. After the offensive was cancelled, it continued its fighting withdrawal to the German border. In March, it was involved in efforts to eliminate the American bridgehead over the Rhine at the Ludendorff Bridge in Remagen. The 5th Panzer Army was encircled and trapped in the Ruhr Pocket, and surrendered on 17 April 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880153", "title": "Rijsenburg", "text": "Rijsenburg\n\nRijsenburg is a former village in the Dutch province of Utrecht. Presently, it is a part of the single town of Driebergen-Rijsenburg.\n\nThe former municipality of Rijsenburg existed from 1818 to 1931, when it merged with Driebergen, to create the new municipality of Driebergen-Rijsenburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880156", "title": "Tick size", "text": "Tick size\n\nIn financial markets, the tick size is the smallest price increment in which the prices are quoted. The meaning of the term varies depending on whether stocks, bonds, or futures are being quoted.\n\nU.S. mortgage bonds and certain corporate bonds are quoted in increments of one thirty-second (1/32) of one percent. That means that prices will be quoted as, for instance, 99-30/32 - \"99 and 30 ticks\", meaning 99 and 30/32 percent of the face value. Prices can also be quoted with a \"plus\", meaning one sixty-fourth (1/64) of one percent or half a tick. That means that a price is quoted as, for instance, 99-30+, meaning 99 and 61/64 percent (or 30.5/32 percent) of the face value. As an example, \"par the buck plus\" means 100% plus 1/64 of 1% or 100.015625% of face value.\n\nMost European and Asian bond and futures prices are quoted in decimals so the \"tick\" size is 1/100 of 1%. \n\nTick size is the smallest increment (tick) by which the price of stocks, futures contracts or other exchange-traded instrument can move.\n\nThe purpose of having discrete price levels is to balance price priority with time priority. If the tick is too small then too much of a preference is given to price priority meaning that market makers and the general public will have less of an incentive to post their orders well in advance since people can jump ahead of them by increasing their price by a small, virtually inconsequential, fraction. If the tick is too big then the opposite happens and time priority is given far too much of an advantage. The size of a tick is picked to basically balance those two priorities.\n\nTick sizes can be fixed (e.g., USD 0.0001) or vary according to the current price (common in European markets) with larger increments at higher prices. Heavily-traded stocks are given smaller tick sizes. An instrument price is always a rational number and the tick sizes determine the numbers that are permissible for a given instrument and exchange.\n\nIn Europe, Mifid has resulted in a variety of multilateral trading facilities (MTF) with distinct tick size regimes for the same stocks. These differences mean that order routing systems must be aware of every MTF's tick size regime and adjust outgoing orders accordingly. There is now an industry effort underway to harmonise tick sizes. As of 2019, the article 49 of the new MiFID II directive requires trading venues to adopt minimum tick sizes in relation to equity and certain equity-like instruments.\n\nIn theory, the price for a stock could be any fraction of a dollar (or euro, yen, ...). American stocks could be traded on 1/100 of a cent: the usual trade is 100 shares and a penny in the trade price would be 1/100 of a cent when calculated per share. But that's not the case: per share, it is still traded in cents. The reason is that if the difference between two prices was very small, it would be easier to do \"penny jumping\", which is a small scale version of front running. \n\n"}
{"id": "1880157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880157", "title": "Phantasmagoria (video game)", "text": "Phantasmagoria (video game)\n\nPhantasmagoria is a point-and-click adventure horror video game designed by Roberta Williams for MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows and released by Sierra On-Line on August 24, 1995. It tells the story of Adrienne Delaney (Victoria Morsell), a writer who moves into a remote mansion and finds herself terrorized by supernatural forces. It was made at the peak of popularity for interactive movie games and features live-action actors and footage, both during cinematic scenes and within the three-dimensionally rendered environments of the game itself. It was noted for its violence and sexual content.\n\nWilliams had long planned to design a horror game, but she waited eight years for software technology to improve before doing so. More than 200 people were involved in making \"Phantasmagoria\", which was based on Williams' 550-page script, about four times the length of an average Hollywood screenplay. It took more than two years to develop and four months to film. The game was originally budgeted for $800,000, but it ultimately cost $4.5 million to develop and was filmed in a $1.5 million studio that Sierra built specifically for the game.\n\nThe game was directed by Peter Maris and features a cast of twenty-five actors, all performing in front of a blue screen. Most games at the time featured 80 to 100 backgrounds, while \"Phantasmagoria\" includes more than 1,000. A professional Hollywood special effects house worked on the game, and the musical score includes a neo-Gregorian chant performed by a 135-voice choir. Sierra stressed that it was intended for adult audiences, and the company willingly submitted it to a ratings system and included a password-protected censoring option within the game to tone down the graphic content.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" was released on seven discs after multiple delays, but it was a financial success, grossing $12 million in its opening weekend and becoming one of the best-selling games of 1995. Sierra strongly promoted the game. It received mixed reviews, earning praise for its graphics and suspenseful tone while being criticized for its slow pacing and easy puzzles. The game also drew controversy, particularly due to a rape scene. CompUSA and other retailers declined to carry it, religious organizations and politicians condemned it, and it was refused classification altogether in Australia. The sequel \"\" was released in 1996, although Williams was not involved.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" is a point-and-click adventure game that features live-action actors and cinematic footage, both during scenes between the gameplay and within the three-dimensionally rendered environments of the game itself. The game was made when interactive movie games were at the peak of their popularity, with the release of such popular computer games as \"Wing Commander III\" and \"Under a Killing Moon\". In this single-player game, the player controls protagonist Adrienne Delaney, who is always on the screen. The player can click certain areas of the screen to control her movements or make her explore specific places and objects. The camera angles and rooms change depending on where the player moves Adrienne. The game includes only four mouse commands: look (which changes to \"talk to\" when selecting a person), pick up item, use item, and walk. The mouse cursor is always an arrow, unlike in most earlier Sierra On-Line games, in which the cursor could be changed to represent different functions (like walk, hand, and eye) by right-clicking. The cursor turns red when it passes over an area where the user can click to perform an action. Once the action has been completed, the cursor will not turn red again. Objects in the game can be picked up by clicking on them or interacting with them in a film sequence, after which the item automatically goes into the inventory. If an object is small enough that it can be easily missed, a pulsing glow occasionally surrounds it to draw attention to it.\n\nThe user interface is a screen surrounded by a stone border, with buttons and eight inventory slots along the bottom. Adrienne can only hold eight items at once, and each black slot can contain an image of an item that the user can click on to retrieve or use within the game. In the middle of the inventory slots is a \"P\" button that brings up an options screen, allowing the player to save or restore games, change the game screen to full- or half-size, control the volume, or switch between a censored version of the game and uncensored one, with more graphic content. A chapter gauge on this screen conveys how much progress remains in a given chapter. A fast-forward button, located above the options button, allows the user to skip past cinematic scenes. On the left side of the interface is a red skull button, which the user can click to receive hints. On the right side is a red button with a picture of a closed eye, which displays any inventory item that the user drags to the button. The display shows a close-up image that can be turned in multiple directions.\n\nGame designer Roberta Williams, co-founder of Sierra On-Line, deliberately made the \"Phantasmagoria\" gameplay and interface simple, unobtrusive, and intuitive so it would be more accessible and less frustrating for casual gamers. According to Arinn Dembo from \"Computer Gaming World\", the game is focused more around the story and the frightening atmosphere, rather than on a difficult gaming experience, and therefore the puzzles are relatively easy, logical, and straightforward.\n\nSuccessful mystery novelist Adrienne Delaney (Victoria Morsell) and her photographer husband Don Gordon (David Homb) have just purchased a remote mansion off the coast of a small New England island previously owned by a famous 19th-century magician, Zoltan \"Carno\" Carnovasch (Robert Miano), whose five wives all died mysteriously. Adrienne hopes to find an inspiration for her next novel in her new home, but starts having nightmares immediately upon moving in. She is comforted by the loving and supportive Don. Adrienne explores the estate, making mysterious discoveries like strange music, warnings written on her computer, and ominous messages from a fortune-teller automaton. Unbeknownst to the happy couple, Carno had practiced black magic when he lived in the mansion and had summoned an evil demon that possessed him and caused him to murder his wives.\n\nDuring her exploration of the grounds, Adrienne finds a secret chapel hidden behind a bricked off fireplace. After opening a locked box atop an altar, Adrienne unknowingly releases Carno's demon, which possesses Don. Don starts acting menacingly toward Adrienne, and rapes her. Adrienne meets Harriet Hockaday (V. Joy Lee), a superstitious vagrant, and her strong but dim-witted son, Cyrus (Steven W. Bailey), who are secretly living in a barn on the estate. After Adrienne agrees to let them stay, they volunteer to help around the mansion. When a technician named Mike (Carl Neimic) visits the mansion to install the phone, Don screams at him in a jealous rage, warning him to stay away from his wife. After Mike leaves the mansion, unbeknownst to Adrienne, Don bludgeons Mike to death.\n\nWhile the local townspeople believe all Carno's wives died of natural causes or accidentally, Adrienne learns through a series of visions that he murdered them in grotesque ways. Hortencia (Christine Armond), who avoided Zoltan's abuse by secluding herself in her greenhouse, is stabbed with gardening tools and suffocated with mulch. Victoria (Holley Chant), an alcoholic, is killed when Zoltan impales her eye with a wine bottle during an argument. An overly talkative third wife, Leonora (Dana Moody), has her mouth gagged and her neck contorted in a torture device. Finally, the food-loving Regina (Wanda Smith) is force-fed animal entrails through a funnel until she chokes to death. Harriet performs a séance for Adrienne, revealing in the form of a green ectoplasm the spirit of Carno before he had been possessed. He reveals that the previously contained evil spirit has been released, and urges Adrienne to trap it once again.\n\nAdrienne visits the nearly 110-year-old Malcolm Wyrmshadow (Douglas Seale), who had been Carno's apprentice as a young boy. Malcolm reveals that Carno met his demise after his last wife, Marie (Traci Clauson), discovered he was a murderer. Marie conspired with her lover, Gaston (Jeff Rector), to kill Carno by sabotaging the equipment for his most dangerous escapology trick, in which Carno donned a burning hood and escaped from bonds on a throne underneath a swinging axe. The sabotage left Carno horribly burned and disfigured, but he survived and attacked Marie and Gaston. After killing Marie by beheading her, Carno was killed by Gaston, who then succumbed to his own wounds.\n\nMalcolm tells Adrienne about a ritual that can eradicate the demon. Harriet, fearing for her safety, decides to leave with Cyrus as Don becomes more abusive and erratic. The next day, Adrienne is attacked by Don, who is now completely insane and dressed like Carno. Adrienne scars Don's face with acid from his darkroom and flees, discovering the corpses of Mike, Harriet and Cyrus hidden throughout the mansion. Don captures Adrienne and straps her into the throne, but she distracts him long enough to free herself and trigger the swinging axe, which impales and kills Don. His death unleashes the demon, which pursues Adrienne through the mansion. She escapes long enough to perform a ritual that traps the demon once again. The game ends with Adrienne walking out of the mansion with a vacant stare, almost catatonic.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" was a radically different game for Williams, who was best known for designing the family-friendly \"King's Quest\" fantasy adventure game series. Williams said she did not want to get typecast in a particular genre, adding: \"I felt I had more to offer than fairy stories. I wanted to explore games with a lot of substance and deep emotions.\" Although \"Phantasmagoria\" was her first horror game, Williams had created murder and crime stories in her earlier mystery games, \"Mystery House\" and the Laura Bow series. Williams was a fan of the horror genre, although she did not watch many horror films as a child after a traumatic experience watching \"Horrors of the Black Museum\" (1959) at age four. She began watching them again as a teen, and particularly enjoyed such films as \"Halloween\" (1978), and movies based on Stephen King novels, like \"Carrie\" and \"The Shining\" (1980). Williams cited the works of King and Edgar Allan Poe as the inspirations behind \"Phantasmagoria\".\n\nWilliams had wanted to make a horror game for eight years prior to \"Phantasmagoria\", and had started to design one on several occasions, but none came to fruition. She felt the computer game industry and software technology had not yet reached the point where an effective and frightening computer game could be made. As a result, she decided to wait until CD-ROMs were faster and could handle real actors, which she believed was crucial for a horror game because she felt the player had to be able to empathize with the character to fear for them. Williams had been considering several horror story ideas for years before making the game. In one, the heroine answers a magician's advertisement for an assistant and gets the job, but the magician turns out to be insane. Another was set in the past, with the female protagonist getting involved in the supernatural life of a magician character. That idea evolved into a woman being married to a man who is drawn to a bizarre house that previously belonged to illusionists and is haunted by ghosts. The final story as it appears in the game has a contemporary setting, but combines elements from modern fiction, 19th century literature, and classic horror films of the 1950s.\n\"Phantasmagoria\" was the first Sierra On-Line game script to be written like a film screenplay. During the writing stage, Williams was under pressure to ensure \"Phantasmagoria\" was a commercial success for Sierra. She also faced concerns from her husband Ken Williams, the company president and co-founder of Sierra, who wanted the company to focus more on lower-cost, combat-oriented animated games, and was also concerned about the level of violence in \"Phantasmagoria\". Williams said she knew the rape scene in particular would be controversial, but she felt it was essential to the plot because it was a turning point that made Adrienne realize something was deeply wrong with Don. She felt the rest of the story \"would make no sense\" without the scene, but also knew there was a chance it would be cut from the game before production ended.\n\nThe script numbered roughly 550 pages when completed, about four times the size of an average Hollywood screenplay. It also included another 100 pages of storyboards representing a total of 800 scenes. In preparation for writing it, Williams spent six months watching horror films and reading horror novels, as well as reading books about how to write horror novels and screenplays. She also asked people she knew socially to tell her scary stories so she could identify the elements of fear. She immersed herself so deeply into the genre that she began having nightmares and had to scale back her reading. She also spent about six months researching historical aspects of the story before the writing process. Williams had a history of using female protagonists in her games, like the Laura Bow series and some of the \"King's Quest\" games. She said her own personality was a partial inspiration for the protagonist Adrienne, although it was not purposeful: \"I think it just kind of naturally worked out that way.\"\n\nAndy Hoyos, the game's art director and a horror aficionado, participated in brainstorming sessions and discussions with Williams during the writing stage. He conceived the ideas for most of the death scenes and tried to make each one different and original with what he called \"fresh approaches to murder\". Williams wanted to include more scenes with Adrienne and Don as a happy, normal couple, so that Don's transformation to evil would have greater impact. She proved unable to do so while also maintaining the correct pacing for the gameplay. Williams wrote \"Phantasmagoria\" with the mass market in mind, targeting casual players as well as die-hard computer game fans. To that end, she wrote the game in short chapters to break it into smaller, easier-to-play sections. Her targeted demographic for the game was ages 16 and older. She chose the title \"Phantasmagoria\" after reading the word in a reference book about the history of magic and magicians. The term refers to a 17th-century theatrical horror show in which \"spirits of the dead\" were revealed in a darkened theater by the use of a modified magic lantern.\n\nAndy Hoyos was the art director for \"Phantasmagoria\", and Kim White, Brandee Prugh and Brian Judy were among the computer artists. It was the first computer game Prugh worked on. Mark Hood, a veteran Sierra programmer, and Mark Seibert served as \"Phantasmagoria\" project managers. Seibert called managing the project \"much more of a technical and managerial problem-solving job than I ever envisioned\". Unlike previous Sierra games, it also involved managing a great deal of outside resources, such as keeping the studio and outside art contractors on schedule. The game's three-dimensional graphics were among the first rendered on Silicon Graphics software. In creating the look of the game, Hoyos drew particular inspiration from the films of Tim Burton, and he particularly tried to emulate the lighting, sets and \"imaginative edge\" of \"Batman\" (1989). Other influences included the films \"Alien\" (1979) and \"Hellraiser\" (1987). \"Phantasmagoria\" was designed using the 3-D software package Alias. Hoyos started by designing the rooms, then created the furniture, and added textures and lighting. Once complete, the computer rendered final images of each room, which became the backgrounds for the game. While most computer games at the time had between 80 and 100 background pictures, \"Phantasmagoria\" had more than 1,000.\n\nThe game developers realized early during development that the game could not be completed entirely in-house due to the large scope of the project, and required working with Hollywood agencies, actors and special effects houses, among others. This added further complexity to the game's development and design. Gerald B. Wolfe, the game's director of photography, spoke to the artists about how to set up the camera angles during filming to best accommodate the design of the rooms. Mannequins created in the computer substituted as stand-ins for the actors to help Wolfe position the shots. Most of the artists had never created computer-generated backgrounds for video-captured characters, and found it to be a challenging process. Seibert said bridging the gap between Hollywood and the software world was difficult at first, but after about four weeks of shooting, the two sides had \"come to a common language and had a greater understanding of the process\". Hoyos said the biggest difficulty in designing the look of the game was creating a definitive scale for the environment, and ensuring the objects and environment would eventually be compatible with human characters and maintain realism.\n\nOnce the filming was completed, more than 20 two-hour Beta SP video tapes of footage had to be edited down to fit the actions of the game. The programming included editing the original video footage, and mixing the rendered images of doors, drawers, chairs and other objects into the footage frame-by-frame, which was necessary for more than 100 scenes. The game required more polishing and fine-tuning than most games of its time due to the many video components, and the programmers had to determine the desired frame rate, data transfer rate and desired resolution of the video elements. Another challenge for the game was CD resource management. Since many of the scenes in the game could be repeated in multiple chapters, some pieces of the code were written onto several different CDs to reduce the number of times the player had to swap discs in the middle of a chapter, an unusual practice for computer games at the time. The final game was on seven discs, a large number for a computer game, and more than the four or five discs originally expected.\n\nTwenty-five professional actors were cast in \"Phantasmagoria\". Roberta Williams watched the audition tapes of all the roles, and was involved with Mark Seibert in picking the actors. The only actor that Siebert chose without Williams' input was Victoria Morsell as the protagonist, Adrienne Delaney. Williams had watched other audition tapes for the part and was not happy with any of the choices. While she was on vacation, Seibert watched Morsell's audition and immediately selected her for the part. Williams was initially concerned that she was not involved in the decision, but later came to agree that Morsell was the correct choice. Morsell mostly had television experience, but had also previously worked in film and theater roles. She had to work 10 to 12 hours a day, six days a week, for three months to capture all her character's actions and movements. David Homb portrayed Adrienne's husband, Don Gordon. Morsell and Homb started dating in real life after filming. Robert Miano was cast as the villain Zoltan \"Carno\" Carnovasch. He had previously appeared in several films by \"Phantasmagoria\" director Peter Maris.\n\nThe comic relief roles of Harriet and Cyrus were played by V. Joy Lee and Steven W. Bailey, respectively. Lee had mostly done theater work in the Atlanta and Seattle areas, along with appearing in some industrial films and an episode of \"Northern Exposure\". Bailey had been an actor in Seattle for about three years, doing mostly stage work, as well as some commercials, television episodes, independent films, and industrial films for the United States Navy. Malcolm was portrayed by veteran actor Douglas Seale. Stella Stevens played the antiques store owner Lou Ann, Geoff Pryser played Bob the realtor, and Carl Neimic played phone technician Mike. Traci Clauson portrayed Marie, Carno's fifth and final wife.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" was Sierra's first game to use live actors integrated with computer-generated backgrounds. About 600 scenes were filmed for the game. The total filming took about four months, 12 hours a day, shooting six days a week. More than 200 people were ultimately involved in the making of the game. A total of $800,000 was originally budgeted for \"Phantasmagoria\", but it ended up costing $4.5 million. The budget issues caused some friction between Roberta and Ken Williams. It was the first game made in a new filming studio built by Sierra in Oakhurst, California, the same location as Sierra's headquarters. It cost $1.5 million to build and was overseen by studio manager Bill Crow, who said, \"\"Phantasmagoria\" essentially started with the design and creation of the studio\". Sierra also developed computerized tools specifically to manage the shooting process, including software to digitize the video into the computer. Some of the software was built as the game was being made and as the need for new tools was being identified.\n\nSierra wanted the game to have Hollywood-quality film sequences, so they sought a director with experience in the film industry. They hired Peter Maris, whose previous experience was mainly of action and drama films, although some of his earlier films were graphic horror movies. Maris and Roberta Williams collaborated a great deal from the beginning of the process, with Maris explaining what he wanted in each scene from a filmmaker's perspective, and Williams explaining her desires from a game designer's perspective. Maris set up the camera angles and worked with the actors, using three motion-controlled cameras during the shooting. All filming was done entirely in front of a blue screen, and the digitized information was later loaded into the Silicon Graphics computers, which synchronized the relative motion of computer-generated, three-dimensional background art. Next, the live action and the backgrounds were composited using advanced techniques controlled by Petro Vlahos's UltiMatte system. The computer imaging components made \"Phantasmagoria\" a very different experience for Maris than his usual film industry work. Crow served as a production coordinator during filming, helping facilitate what happened on stage. He also directed the scenes that involved stunts or other special effects that required the coordination of animated sequences with live action. Cindy Jordan worked as the makeup artist.\n\nDue to the nature of filming for a computer game, certain short performances had to be filmed over and over separately, like Adrienne simply crossing a room. Many of the actors, including Morsell, Lee and Bailey, had never done any blue screen acting before, and Miano had only done it once. Morsell in particular said she found it challenging because it was so physically constrictive. Such items as tables, chairs, doors or stairs that the actors appear to interact with are in fact constructed objects painted blue to match the blue screen, and were occasionally challenging for the actors to work with. During one scene, David Homb accidentally stood in such a way that his arm appeared to be going through the living room wall.\n\nMorsell found it challenging to film a scene near the end of the game, in which Adrienne is pleading with Don while getting strapped into the chair with a guillotine overhead. Several different versions of the scene had to be filmed, and Morsell said it was difficult for her to work up the genuine emotion she needed take after take. The torture devices featured in the game were scale models made by local craftsmen. During one scene, the mansion roof starts to collapse, causing beams and chunks of debris to fall around the actors. To achieve this, the crew built lightweight beams out of hollow cardboard, which had to fall in the correct sequence. In another scene, Adrienne crawls along a water pipe that breaks. To film the scene without damaging equipment, the crew built a giant plastic box with a plastic tray underneath for the shoot. Three hoses ran through the pipe so water would spray in multiple directions.\n\nThe chase scene at the end of the game, in which Don pursues Adrienne throughout the entire mansion, took a full week to film. Homb wore a prosthesis on his face to simulate wounds from Adrienne pouring acid on him. Only one prosthesis was available, and it was in such bad shape by the end of filming that Williams said \"we were essentially holding it in place with the proverbial wire and bailing wax\". Several scenes in \"Phantasmagoria\" involved animals, including a Doberman Pinscher, two cats, a beagle and several rats. Sierra commissioned Dave Macmillan and other Hollywood animal handlers from the company Worldwide Movie Animals to handle the animals. Two cats were required to portray Adrienne's pet Spaz because the cats were temperamental and each would have moments when they would not perform. Some objects were borrowed by a museum operated by the Fresno Flats Historical Society and used as props in the game. The society was thanked in the credits as a result. Ultimately, all of the scenes filmed for \"Phantasmagoria\" were used in the final game. Some were edited for length and pacing, but none were cut altogether.\n\nDespite a storyline running over a course of seven days, Adrienne wears the same wardrobe throughout the entire game: an orange shirt and black pants. Williams said this is because many of Adrienne's actions throughout the game can be repeated by the player over and over, making it difficult to change her wardrobe without it becoming \"a nightmare of shooting\". The only solutions she saw were to allow less decision-making by the player, or to keep the flexibility intact but not allow any costume changes. Williams said she decided the latter option was ultimately better for the game. An orange shirt was chosen for the character because it was the best color to shoot against the blue screen. None of the characters wear blue, purple, gray or any shade of green similar to the blue screen for that same reason.\n\nFor \"Phantasmagoria\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s special effects, Sierra sought the professional effects house The Character Shop, headed by senior creature maker Rick Lazzarini. The core special effects team for the game consisted of Lazzarini, Michael Esbin and Bill Zahn. Lazzarini said making \"Phantasmagoria\" was a much faster and more cooperative process than in the film industry. Due to the tight filming schedule, most effects had to be done in one shot with no cuts, so there was less margin for error. They created the effects for all the death scenes in the game, which included creating assorted body prostheses, burn makeup and what Lazzarini called \"gallons of fake blood\", which was made of sugar, water and dye.\n\nAdrienne's head is split open by a swinging pendulum blade in one death scene, an effect that took several hours to set up. A fake head was created from a model cast of actress Victoria Morsell's head, with pumps installed to pump fake blood into it, and strings attached to either side so it could be pulled apart. The crew only had one head model, so they had to keep putting it back together and reusing it over and over for each take. After filming was completed, the crew put the head back together and took a picture of Morsell with it.\n\nOne scene involved a burning head, which was created by taking a cast of the actor's face, head and body with a plaster, then placing soft rubber over the cast to simulate human flesh. It was also treated so it did not release black smoke like a rubber tire when it burned. For burn effects placed on the body after the fire, the crew made a sculpture of the wounds, then mounted them onto rubber appliances, which were glued to the actor. For Harriet's death scene, in which she is scalped and her brain is visible, makeup artist Cindy Jordan put a cap over actress V. Joy Lee's head and covered it with mortician's wax to make it look bumpy. Another special effect involved a spirit that appears in the form of ectoplasm during a séance. It was created from cellulose, water and green food coloring. It proved difficult to make, and several attempts were made before the right consistency was achieved. To create the appearance of it coming out of actress V. Joy Lee's mouth, an eight-foot long hose was attached to the side of her face. Project manager Mark Seibert had to suck the fake ectoplasm through the hose to get it in, then during filming he spit it out. It took several shots before the take was successful, and it looked so funny during filming that the crew kept laughing during takes.\n\nSierra composers Mark Seibert and Jay User created the musical score for \"Phantasmagoria\", with Neal Grandstaf providing additional music. Most of the music is a mixture of real instruments with synthesized and sampled sounds, and unlike previous Sierra games, the score was recorded live, rather than created in the computer. Themes for the music ranged from rock and roll to opera. The composers observed the game and various scenes to prepare their score, trying to create an ambiance and identify spots to build the tension with music, creating stingers as needed. For cinematic scenes, they watched tapes after the scenes were shot and composed the music afterward. This was a new process for Sierra and the computer game industry in general, but the same concept was regularly followed in the film industry.\n\nThe opening theme of the game features a neo-Gregorian chant, which was performed in studio by a 135-voice choir. Much of the underscore music that plays when the player is exploring the game, rather than during cinematic scenes, is based upon that opening scene. The composers made use of silence in many scenes, to build up tension for moments of a \"pounce\" effect, creating the effect with music that something is catching the listener. They deliberately saved the most intense music for the final chapter of \"Phantasmagoria\", when the game becomes the most intense. During some chase scenes, drums and low strings are used in the score to simulate a heartbeat, which grows louder and louder during more dangerous moments.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" took more than two years to develop. Sierra officials said this was because it was so different from anything that had been done previously, in both the Hollywood or computer game industries, and the new challenges led to complexities. Roberta Williams said: \"It took a full year just to get people to understand what I wanted to do.\" The game experienced multiple delays before it was ultimately released. It was originally planned that the game would be in stores by late 1993 or early 1994, with Sierra saying it would come out no later than the fall of 1994. The game was previewed at the Consumer Electronics Show in Chicago in June 1994, where it was announced the release date had been pushed back to October 1994 and that the game would be made available on two discs. The game ultimately required seven discs. The shipping date was later changed again to Christmas 1994, and then February 1995, before Sierra said it would be delayed yet again as the company continued to refine the technology of live-action video. It was announced the game would be ready in June 1995, but when Sierra organized road shows that month to market 18 of its new games, \"Phantasmagoria\" was not among them because it was not ready yet.\n\nThe date was changed once more to August 3, before it was finally released in stores on August 24, 1995, the same day as the Microsoft's operating system Windows 95 version. \"Phantasmagoria\" came out first for Windows 95, Windows 3.1 and MS-DOS, then for Macintosh computers in November 1995. A hint book by Sierra came out at the same time as the game. \"Phantasmagoria\" was also ported to Sega Saturn and spanned eight discs exclusively in Japan, where it was fully translated and dubbed into Japanese, and released by Outrigger under the name \"Phantasm\". In response to all the delays, Vince Broady, executive editor of the monthly publication \"Multimedia World\", said Sierra may have been attempting to avoid the same mistakes from the previous year with \"Outpost\", for which the company released many advertisements and reviews, but then over-promoted and released before it was finished. Sierra spokeswoman Kathy Gillmore admitted that mistakes were made in marketing \"Outpost\" and Sierra had tried to fix them. The minimum system requirements were an IBM compatible 486–25, 8 megabytes of RAM, 5 megabytes hard disk space, SVGA (256 colors) and a 2x CD-ROM. It supported Sound Blaster-compatible sound cards, and for MS-DOS the game worked with a megahertz chip. It sold for as much as $80 in some stores, but was typically sold for $69.95.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" was heavily advertised by Sierra in advance of its release, and the company touted it as its biggest game to date. It was Sierra's first computer game targeted to an adult audience. There was no legislated rating system for computer games in the United States in place, although one was being debated before the U.S. Senate at the time. Sierra was among several major software companies that voluntarily supported the ratings system designed by the Entertainment Software Rating Board, which rated games so adults could make decisions about software purchases. The game was given an \"M\" rating for \"mature\" audiences, meaning intended for audiences 17 or older. As a result, it carried a content warning on the box that said \"contains adult subject matter\". The game box prominently displayed this rating, as well as a warning on the back panel that the game contains adult subject matter inappropriate for children. It also encouraged parents to review the material before providing it to children and asked retailers not to sell it to minors. \"Phantasmagoria\" also received mature ratings in Germany and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe game itself includes a filter that players can activate with a password so that violent or sexually explicit content is censored. When the filter is in place, the screen blurs during the most violent sections, so the player can hear the action but cannot see it. Sierra officials believed it was the first CD-ROM adventure game that self-censored upon command. Sierra producer Mark Seibert said: \"There are some pretty gruesome things, and we're concerned about how that is going to impact parents who want to buy a good game with a good story line.\" But Gene Emery of \"The Providence Journal\" said the censoring option was \"unlikely to stop any computer-literate 10-year-old\" and by scrambling portions of the videos that might be considered offensive, \"the censorship option actually makes the explicit scenes seem even worse than they really are\".\n\nIn October 1997, the first chapter of \"Phantasmagoria\" was included in the Roberta Williams Anthology, a limited-edition collection of 15 games created by Williams over 18 years. \"Phantasmagoria\" was made available for digital download on the website GOG.com starting in February 2010 for $9.99.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" quickly became the best-selling game in the United States, and was Sierra's best-selling computer game to date. It grossed $12,000,000 and sold 300,000 units during its first week-end of release, debuting at number four in \"PC Data\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s August 1995 list of top-selling computer games for MS-DOS and Windows. It followed \"\", \"Microsoft Flight Simulator\" and \"Myst\". By September, it had reached number one on the list among computer games and ranked third among all computer software, following Windows 95 and Microsoft Plus! \"InterAction\", a magazine published by Sierra On-Line, wrote that no other Sierra game topped game charts as quickly as \"Phantasmagoria\" did. By the end of December, it remained at number three among overall software, and number one among computer games, and by January it was estimated as many as 500,000 copies had been sold. According to Sierra On-Line, its global sales surpassed 600,000 units by March 1996.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" finished 1995 as the ninth best-selling game of the year according to an analysis by \"PC Data\" of sales by 42 retail chains. In January 1996, \"Phantasmagoria\" was the fourth-best seller among MS-DOS and Windows games, behind \"Microsoft Flight Simulator\", \"Myst\" and \"Command & Conquer\", and it was number six among all computer software. By February 10 it was number five among MS-DOS and Windows games, and by February 24 it was number 10. It received a boost in June 1996, possibly due to the pending release of its sequel \"\", and jumped back up to seventh among best-selling computer software programs according to \"Computer Life\" magazine. One year after \"Phantasmagoria\" was released, it still remained in the best-seller charts, and more than one million copies were ultimately sold, making it Sierra's first game to reach that milestone. NPD Techworld, which tracked sales in the United States, reported 301,138 units sold of \"Phantasmagoria\" by December 2002.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" received mixed reviews. Vince Broady, executive editor of \"Multimedia World\", said Sierra was smart to try to capture the adult market, which was looking for sophisticated games especially after the popularity of games such as \"The 7th Guest.\" Dwight Silverman of the \"Houston Chronicle\" declared it the best game of the year, calling it a \"masterwork\" and \"as close as it gets to a film you control\", although he said not everyone would appreciate it due to its violent content. \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave it a B+ and called it \"one of the surest signs yet of computer games approaching the quality level of the movies\". The review said it had some suspenseful and novel twists, but also some \"horrific touches (that) seem a bit derivative, such as a Freddy Krueger-like nightmare in which hands pull you through a bed\". Kim McDaniel of \"The Salt Lake Tribune\" called it \"the most sophisticated computer game to date\" and \"a weird, wild, horrific ride that will make you jump at every turn, even if you aren't normally faint-of-heart\". Although McDaniel said it might be easy for experienced players, she appreciated that it was more accessible for casual players than difficult games like \"The 7th Guest\".\n\nA \"Billboard\" magazine review said \"Phantasmagoria\" \"lives up to the advanced billing\" and \"aims to unnerve and succeeds gruesomely with bloody special effects interspliced in trusty scare-flick fashion with daubs of flesh and hints of sex\". \"USA Today\" writer Joe Wilson gave it three-and-a-half stars and called it well-produced, visually appealing, frighteningly realistic and \"a much-needed change from normal fare\", although he said the plot did not start to become interesting until halfway through. Gene Emery of \"The Providence Journal\" said the game was \"an impressive work, a sophisticated mix of live action and a rich computer-generated environment, coupled with a musical score that's spooky without being overwhelming\". He also called the gameplay \"elegant in its simplicity\". \"San Francisco Chronicle\" writer Laura Evenson called it unpredictable and addictive, comparing it to a good mystery novel. A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" was pleased with the story, the production values of the cutscenes, and the way the game mixed in full motion video without resulting in slowdown or poor control. However, he found that the lack of a challenge made it a poor value for experienced players, since they would be able to finish the entire game in a day or two, and recommended it strictly for those who were new to the adventure genre. Ric Manning of the Gannett News Service wrote, \"The graphics are terrific, but don't play on a full stomach.\" Steve La Rue of \"U-T San Diego\" found the game \"visually opulent and interesting\" with \"dialogue a lot better than I expected, given the trite gothic novel plot\", but also said he had to adjust to the \"gradual, contemplative pace\". Jack Warner of \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" wrote: \"It's hackneyed, but the art is so good, the acting sufficiently convincing and the atmosphere brooding enough to keep you going\", although he said \"precious little happens\" in the first few discs.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" writer Arinn Dembo called the storyline of a couple buying a haunted mansion \"a cliché so familiar that it needs no explanation\", but said it still worked in a computer game because the player could directly experience it in that medium, rather than simply watching it in a film. Dembo also praised the game for featuring a female protagonist, though she said Adrienne was too much of an exaggeratedly feminine \"girlie-type girl\". Overall, Dembo said the game \"achieved a new height of realism and beauty in a computer game\" and was \"an important technological leap, and represents a step forward for the whole industry\". Another \"Computer Gaming World\" review said \"Phantasamagoria\" \"appears to deliver on its ambitious promises\" and that although the puzzles are too simple for experienced gamers, the appeal of the game is exploring a setting that \"would have had even the folks in Amityville making tracks\". Harley Jebens of the \"Austin American-Statesman\" said some of the acting was \"hilariously bad\" and the storyline was predictable, but that the game keeps you engaged, the story draws you in and the controls were well executed. \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\" writer Andy Greiser said the game was a beautiful combination of live actors and computer-built backgrounds, but said the action doesn't start to pick up until the halfway point. In a mixed review, Phil LaRose of \"The Advocate\" praised the game for having a female protagonist and excellent special effects, and said it had gone further toward merging the realms of film and game than any other computer game. He also said the game was too linear, with overly simple puzzles and a plotline with \"so many recycled concepts in this game, players will feel like they've seen it all before\".\n\nOther reviews were more negative. \"GameSpot\" writer Jeff Sengstack said the expensive budget and long production history \"do not necessarily translate into high quality gaming\". He complimented the graphics and music, but considered \"[the game] generally unchallenging, the characters weak, the violence over-the-top, and the script just lame\". Mike Hall of the \"Albuquerque Journal\" compared \"Phantasmagoria\" to big-budget films with multimillion-dollar budgets and multiple production delays that ultimately failed, like \"Cleopatra\" and \"Waterworld\". He said the graphics were beautiful, but the game ended too quickly, the plot was thin and the puzzles were too easy to solve. \"The Escapist\" writer Brendan Main said the game fell short of its ambition to change how gamers experienced horror media, and the juxtaposition of real-life actors on settings that were \"ordinary, pixilated fare\" was \"odd and unflattering\". A one-star review in \"The Video Games Guide\", published in 2013, \"now seems little more than a flawed, though ambitious, white elephant\". In a 2014 review, IGN writer Kosta Andreadis said the game's special effects were still effective, and that \"Phantasmagoria\" wisely builds suspense and saves the violent content for the end of the game. But he said it was ultimately \"less a bad game than a bad horror film\" and said the execution, \"although technically interesting, is extremely goofy, full of ludicrous situations, weird plot turns, bizarre dialogue, and dated costume choices\".\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" earned an Editor's Choice Award from \"PC Gamer\", and a Golden Triad Award from \"Computer Game Review\", whose editors later gave it their 1995 Best FMV of the Year prize. It was nominated for Best Adventure/Role-Playing Software in the annual Excellence in Software Awards competition, known in the game industry as \"The Codies\", which are among the most prestigious honors in software development. It was also named Best Adventure Game of the Year by \"Games Magazine\", Game of the Month by \"Windows Magazine\", and was one of three nominees for \"PC/Computing\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Game of the Year.\n\nBefore \"Phantasmagoria\" was released, CompUSA, the nation's largest discount computer retailer, notified Sierra it would not stock the game. The company did not comment on specific reasons for their decision except for a written statement from chief operating officer Hal Compton: \"Software comes out all the time. Some we buy, some we don't. This one we chose not to.\" Analysts believed CompUSA objected to the realistic violence in the game. Lee S. Isgur of Jefferies & Co., a global investment bank that followed the computer game industry, said CompUSA's decision probably would not harm overall sales of the game, and that it could in fact help it generate publicity. He added that \"It's probably one of the bloodiest games ever.\" Likewise, Vincent Turzo of Jefferies & Co. said, \"When you say you're not going to carry something, of course the consumers rush to the stores to see what it's all about.\" Roberta Williams said of CompUSA's announcement: \"I'm disappointed that they decided to make a stand with my product.\" Some smaller retailers also decided not to stock \"Phantasmagoria\", but others like Walmart continued to carry it.\n\nAs well as the graphic gore and violence, the rape scene in \"Phantasmagoria\" drew particular attention and objections from the game's critics. One major newspaper claimed \"Phantasmagoria\" \"makes a game of sexual violence\". Multiple parents' groups, religious organizations, community action committees and special interest groups called for a boycott, and sent letters to the Sierra offices in droves voicing objections to the game. \"Phantasmagoria\" was unable to be sold in Australia after being refused classification by Office of Film and Literature Classification (the R 18+ classification was not available for video games at the time). The Roberta Williams Anthology collection was also banned in Australia because it featured a one-chapter preview of the game. The governments of two other countries also banned \"Phantasmagoria\". The game was spotlighted in U.S. Senate hearings debating regulation of content in the computer software industry, and there was talk that it could re-ignite the debate in Congress over whether to impose federally mandated ratings on computer software that stores would be required to enforce.\n\nSierra found that Williams tended to garner extremely favorable press, even as \"Phantasmagoria\" got negative press, so the company began having her discuss the game in person. In response to the backlash, Williams said she believed computer games were subject to harsher standards than films and television, which she said often have more violent content than \"Phantasmagoria\", in part because computer games are often regarded as children's entertainment rather than for adults. Williams said \"Phantasmagoria\" was less excessively violent than games like \"Doom\" and \"Mortal Kombat\", and that unlike those games, \"Phantasmagoria\" is \"the good guy ... not going around shooting up people\". Sierra spokeswoman Rebecca Buxton and Dennis Cloutier, the company's vice president of sales, both expressed surprise at the reaction to the game because Sierra made strong efforts to warn viewers about the adult content in its marketing, box warnings and censoring options. Cloutier said the company was essentially \"censoring ourselves\". Steven L. Kent of \"The Seattle Times\" said there were more violent games than \"Phantasmagoria\", but that most video game violence appears in computer animations, and thus can be more easily overlooked than in a live-action game, which elicits a stronger emotional response.\n\nIn April 1998, three years after the game was released, the Kentucky Teachers Retirement System came under criticism for owning 435,000 shares worth $9 million in Cendant, which by this point had purchased Sierra On-Line, due to the violence in the \"Phantasmagoria\" and other Sierra games. Kentucky Sen. Mitch McConnell, Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad, and Lamar Alexander, the former governor of Tennessee, all asked the system to sell its stock. McConnell was particularly critical of the rape scene. They suggested a link existed between recent student slayings in West Paducah, Kentucky, and Jonesboro, Arkansas, and the \"increasingly violent world many American children enter when they sit down in front of a computer screen\". Pat Miller, executive secretary of the Kentucky Teachers Retirement System, said the system wasn't aware of \"Phantasmagoria\" or Sierra's products, and that it invested in Cendant because it's part of an index fund of the 500 best stocks in the country. Miller added that, if the retirement system finds a problem with Sierra On-Line, it would ask Cendant to cease ownership in the company, and that the system would divest its stock if it refused. Miller said: \"We're not going to continue to invest in some company that does something that will be detrimental to our children. We know that our membership would not want us to do that.\" The same letter was also sent to heads of teachers' retirement systems in California, Ohio and Texas.\n\nThe commercial success of \"Phantasmagoria\" had a positive financial impact on Sierra On-Line. Before its release, the company's stock rose in July 1995, up $3.875 to $30.875, which Vince Turzo of Jeffries & Co attributed in part due to anticipation of \"Phantasmagoria\". Sierra's stock continued to rise after it was released. The company closed on the NASDAQ stock market at $43.25 on September 8, 1995, translating to a 73 percent gain in less than three months, which Turzo attributed partially to \"Phantasmagoria\"s success. For the quarter ending September 30, 1995, Sierra posted a profit of $3.26 million, compared to a loss of $850,000 in 1994. This improvement exceeded expectations in analysts' forecasts, and was thanks largely to \"Phantasmagoria\" sales.\n\nWilliams returned to work on the \"King's Quest\" series after \"Phantasmagoria\" was completed. Sierra used the same technology and Hollywood techniques from \"Phantasmagoria\" to make \"\" (1995), another interactive movie adventure game. Williams later described \"Phantasmagoria\" as the game that best represented her career as a game designer. Due to its development delays, \"Phantasmagoria\" was released after other interactive movie games like \"Wing Commander III\" and \"Under a Killing Moon\", so it did not receive as much credit for heralding that game subgenre as the other titles. Harley Jebens of the \"Austin American-Statesman\" said by the time it was finally released, \"computer games that incorporate video [were] becoming a common sight on the software store racks\". Sean Clark, a project leader at LucasArts, feared the success of \"Phantasmagoria\" would set a bad precedent in that software companies would think they need huge budgets and lots of discs to have a successful game, rather than focusing on quality.\n\nA \"Phantasmagoria\" sequel, \"Phantasmagoria: A Puzzle of Flesh\" (1996), was released by Sierra a year after the original. It was written and designed by Lorelei Shannon, Roberta Williams' design partner on \"King's Quest VII\". Williams was not involved with it, and the game featured a very different tone and completely different characters, with no direct connection to the storyline of the first game. Shannon said the original game was a haunted house story in the style of a \"late night creature feature\", while her game has more science-fiction and fantasy horror elements, in the style of the works of Clive Barker and Tanith Lee. Roberta Williams said both she and her husband Ken enjoyed the sequel. A preview for \"A Puzzle of Flesh\" was included in the first CD of the original \"Phantasmagoria\" game.\n\nKen Williams had wanted Roberta to work on a \"Phantasmagoria\" sequel immediately after the success of the first game, but she could not do so due to her obligations to \"King's Quest VIII\". Ken Williams felt the sequel was less successful because players could sense the absence of Roberta's style. \"It's as if a bestselling author had a book ghostwritten. Within a few pages, the fans would know they had been duped and feel disappointed, regardless of the quality of the work.\" Ken Williams said a third game was not produced after \"A Puzzle of Flesh\" because of issues after Sierra was acquired by CUC International in 1996. Distribution was handled by Davidson & Associates, another CUC company, which primarily sold educational software. Williams said the company was uncomfortable with the violent content in \"Phantasmagoria\" and did not attempt to sell the sequel as aggressively as Sierra would have. He also claimed Jan Davidson, the wife of Chairman and CEO Bob Davidson, personally did not like the game and \"wanted it shut down\". Due to these sales challenges, Williams said \"there was no reason to make a third \"Phantasmagoria\"\".\n\nRoberta Williams said she was asked by Sierra to make a third \"Phantasmagoria\" game, and that she said she would consider it, but it was not ultimately made. Williams said:\n"}
{"id": "1880158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880158", "title": "Chelsea Branch Railroad (New Jersey)", "text": "Chelsea Branch Railroad (New Jersey)\n\nThe Chelsea Branch Railroad was a railroad company in the U.S. state of New Jersey. In May 1896, it was merged with several other railroads to form the West Jersey and Seashore Railroad, part of the Pennsylvania Railroad system in Atlantic City, New Jersey.\n\nThe Chelsea Branch Railroad was chartered to build a line from Maine Avenue in Atlantic City to Chelsea. The company's stock was subscribed in 1889. The full line was long, and it was operated by the Camden and Atlantic Railroad.\n\nRepresentatives of the Chelsea Branch Railroad met with those of the West Jersey Railroad, the Alloway and Quinton Railroad, the Camden and Atlantic Railroad, and the Philadelphia, Marlton and Medford Railroad on May 2, 1896, to finalize the vote to merge as the West Jersey and Seashore Railroad. The merger became effective on May 4, 1896.\n"}
{"id": "1880186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880186", "title": "Matthew Stover", "text": "Matthew Stover\n\nMatthew Woodring Stover (born 1962) is an American fantasy and science fiction novelist. He may be known best for his four \"Star Wars\" novels, including the novelization of \"\". He has also written several fantasy novels, including \"Iron Dawn\" and \"Jericho Moon\". He has written four science-fiction/fantasy hybrid stories featuring a hero named Caine: \"Heroes Die\", \"Blade of Tyshalle\", and \"Caine Black Knife\", with the most recent, \"Caine's Law\", released April 4, 2012.\n\nStover attended Danville High School in Danville, Illinois, and graduated in 1979. He then graduated in 1983 from Drake University, and settled in Chicago for many years, before relocating to St. Petersburg, Florida. He is an avid martial artist and a student of the Degerberg Blend, a Jeet Kune Do concept that mixes approximately twenty-five different fighting arts from around the world. This combat style influences the way Stover writes his fight scenes, for which he has won considerable acclaim.\n\nHe is also the founder and self-described \"international grandmaster\" of a parodic self-defense system he calls Huàn Dao (\"Way of the Hedgehog\"), which he has described as \"self-defense for people too lazy to train and too smart to fight.\" He says the system was inspired by a passage from the ancient Greek soldier-poet Archilochus: \"The fox is swift and clever and knows many tricks, yet still he is taken by the hounds. The hedgehog is slow and dull, and knows only one trick -- but it is a very good trick.\" He sometimes refers to Huan Dao as \"Fatmattjitsu.\"\n\nHis non-\"Star Wars\" novels have garnered a smaller but loyal audience, primarily for the \"Acts of Caine\" cycle. As for future \"Star Wars\" novels, Stover has said that he would be interested in writing the final adventure of the heroic trio of Luke Skywalker, Han Solo and Princess Leia.\n\nIn January 2011, fsand.com released e-book versions of both novels. The e-books were slightly revised by Stover to restore some material cut by the original publisher.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880190", "title": "Comp Air 8", "text": "Comp Air 8\n\nThe Comp Air 8 is an American kit turboprop-powered light civil utility aircraft manufactured by Comp Air of Florida.\n\nThe aircraft is a Comp Air 7 with its fuselage stretched by 2 feet (0.6 m) to accommodate six adults and two children. The Comp Air 8 is configured as a conventional high-wing monoplane with optional tailwheel or tricycle undercarriage. It can be fitted with large floats for water operations.\n\nThe Comp Air 8 fuselage and tail are constructed with carbon fiber. Fuel capacity can be determined by the builder and can be as much as . The useful load is and the aircraft has a standard gross weight of . The gross weight can be increased to or even with factory-supplied reinforcing kits. The standard engine used is the Walter M 601D of \n"}
{"id": "1880203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880203", "title": "California State Route 154", "text": "California State Route 154\n\nState Route 154 (SR 154) (also known as the Chumash Highway or unofficially as San Marcos Pass Road after the signage) is a state highway in the U.S. state of California that runs from Los Olivos to Santa Barbara, crossing the San Marcos Pass in the Santa Ynez Mountains. Before U.S. Route 101 was built through the Gaviota Pass, SR 154 was the main throughway to Santa Barbara and the tri city area including use as a stagecoach route in early years. After being replaced by US 101 as the primary route between the Santa Ynez Valley and Santa Barbara, SR 154 now serves as a scenic bypass.\n\nIt is a 2 lane road with some passing lanes, with the highest altitude being 2000 ft. It rivals US 101 for traffic, but it goes through the Los Padres National Forest and the San Marcos Pass. It starts in Los Olivos as a spur from US 101, goes through the town, and then the end of SR 246 at Santa Ynez. It then reaches Lake Cachuma and passes through the Los Padres National Forest, and across the Cold Spring Canyon Arch Bridge, where Cold Spring Tavern is on Stagecoach Road which passes below the bridge. Nearby it crosses Camino Cielo Road to the East and West, then the intersection of Painted Cave Road and Old San Marcos Road before descending to Santa Barbara. It then briefly becomes four lanes and passes an offramp for SR 192 (named Foothill Road to the East and Cathedral Oaks Road to the West of SR 154), before stopping at Calle Real and a Southbound onramp to US 101 and ending at the point where State Street to the East becomes Hollister Avenue to the West.\n\nSR 154 is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System, but is not part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration. SR 154 is eligible for the State Scenic Highway System, and is officially designated as a scenic highway by the California Department of Transportation, meaning that it is a substantial section of highway passing through a \"memorable landscape\" with no \"visual intrusions\", where the potential designation has gained popular favor with the community.\n\nThe highway from Santa Barbara through San Marcos Pass to what was Route 2 was added to the state highway system in 1931. The route renumbered to SR 154 by the 1964 state highway renumbering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880230", "title": "Pink salmon", "text": "Pink salmon\n\nPink salmon or humpback salmon (\"Oncorhynchus gorbuscha\") is a species of anadromous fish in the salmon family. It is the smallest and most abundant of the Pacific salmon. The scientific species name is based on the Russian common name for this species \"gorbúša\" (горбуша), which literally means \"humpie\".\n\nIn the ocean, pink salmon are bright silver fish. After returning to their spawning streams, their coloring changes to pale grey on the back with yellowish-white belly (although some turn an overall dull green color). As with all salmon, in addition to the dorsal fin, they also have an adipose fin. The fish is characterized by a white mouth with black gums, no teeth on the tongue, large oval-shaped black spots on the back, a v-shaped tail, and an anal fin with 13-17 soft rays. During their spawning migration, males develop a pronounced humped back, hence their nickname \"humpies\". Pink salmon average 4.8 pounds (2.2 kg) in weight. The maximum recorded size was 30 inches (76 cm) and 15 pounds (6.8 kg).\n\nPink salmon in their native range have a strict two year life cycle, thus odd and even-year populations do not interbreed. In the state of Washington, Pink salmon runs occur on odd years. Adult pink salmon enter spawning streams from the ocean, usually returning to the stream where they originated. Spawning occurs between late June and mid-October, in coastal streams and some longer rivers, and in the intertidal zone or at the mouth of streams if hyporheic freshwater is available. Using her tail, the female digs a trough-shaped nest, called a redd (Scandinavian word for \"nest\"), in the gravel of the stream bed, where she deposits her eggs. As she expels the eggs, she is approached by one or more males, which fertilize them as they fall into the redd. Subsequently, the female covers the newly deposited zygotes, again with thrusts of her tail, against the gravel at the top of the redd. The female lays from 1,000 to 2,000 eggs in several clutches within the redd, often fertilized by different males. Females guard their redds until death, which comes within days of spawning. In dense populations, a major source of mortality for embryos is a superposition of redds by later-spawning fish. The eggs hatch from December to February, depending on water temperature, and the juveniles emerge from the gravel during March and April and quickly migrate downstream to estuaries, at about one-quarter gram in weight. The fish achieve sexual maturity in their second year of life. They return to freshwater in the summer or autumn as two-year-old adults. Pink and chum salmon sometimes interbreed in nature to form the hybrid known as the miko salmon; the hybrids are sterile.\n\nPink salmon are coldwater fish with a preferred temperature range of 5.6 to 14.6 °C, an optimal temperature of 10.1 °C, and an upper incipient lethal temperature of 25.8 °C. The native range of the species is in the Pacific and Arctic coastal waters and rivers, from the Sacramento River in northern California to the Mackenzie River in Canada; and in the west from the Lena River in Siberia to Korea and Honshu in Japan. In North America pink salmon spawn from the Mackenzie River in the Arctic to as far south as tributaries of Puget Sound, Washington, although they were also reported in the San Lorenzo River near Santa Cruz, California in 1915 and the Sacramento River in northern California in the 1950s. In 2013 a new record for the southernmost extent of spawning pink salmon was published for the Salinas River. In the fall of 2017 a dozen pink salmon were counted in Lagunitas Creek about north of San Francisco, California.\n\nPink salmon were introduced into the Great Lakes of North America, and in Iran. In Europe, pink salmon have been periodically introduced to rivers of the White Sea and Barents Sea basins in Russia since 1956. Stray fish from these rivers have been encountered ascending to rivers also in Norway, Sweden, Ireland, Great Britain and Iceland, and in Norway even self-sustaining populations have been observed. In 2017 larger numbers than usual of this species were caught in rivers in Scotland and spawning was recorded. \n\nNatureServe lists the pink salmon as critically imperiled in California, and imperiled in Washington. In Alaska and British Columbia, they are considered secure. No Pink salmon Evolutionary Significant Units are listed under the Endangered Species Act.\n\nThe commercial harvest of pink salmon is a mainstay of fisheries of both the eastern and western North Pacific. In 2010, the total harvest was some 260 million fish, corresponding to 400,000 tonnes. Of this, 140 million fish were from Russian fisheries and 107 million from the USA (Alaska). Pink salmon account for 69% of the total Russian salmon fisheries. The majority of pink salmon are harvested using coastal set net traps, and the fisheries are concentrated on the east coast of Sakhalin (average 110,000 tonnes per year).\n\nIn North America, beginning in the late 19th century fish traps were used to supply fish for commercial canning and salting. The industry expanded steadily until 1920. During the 1940s and 1950s, pink salmon populations declined drastically. Fish traps were prohibited in Alaska in 1959. Now, most pink salmon are taken with purse seines, drift nets or gillnets. Populations and harvests increased rapidly after the mid-1970s and have been at record high numbers since the 1980s.\n\nMore than 20 million harvested pink salmon are produced by fishery-enhancement hatcheries, particularly in the northern Gulf of Alaska. Pink salmon are not grown in significant numbers in fish farms. The fish are often canned, smoked or salted. Pink salmon roe is also harvested for caviar, a particularly valuable product in Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880250", "title": "Coho salmon", "text": "Coho salmon\n\nThe coho salmon (\"Oncorhynchus kisutch;\" Karuk: achvuun) is a species of anadromous fish in the salmon family, one of the several species of Pacific salmon. Coho salmon are also known as silver salmon or \"silvers\". The scientific species name is based on the Russian common name \"kizhuch\" (кижуч).\n\nDuring their ocean phase, coho salmon have silver sides and dark-blue backs. During their spawning phase, their jaws and teeth become hooked. After entering fresh water, they develop bright-red sides, bluish-green heads and backs, dark bellies and dark spots on their backs. Sexually maturing fish develop a light-pink or rose shading along the belly, and the males may show a slight arching of the back. Mature adults have a pronounced red skin color with darker backs and average and , occasionally reaching up to . They also develop a large kype (hooked beak) during spawning. Mature females may be darker than males, with both showing a pronounced hook on the nose.\n\nThe eggs hatch in the late winter or early spring after six to seven weeks in the redd. Once hatched, they remain mostly immobile in the redd during the alevin life stage, which lasts for 6–7 weeks. Alevin no longer have the protective egg shell, or chorion, and rely on their yolk sacs for nourishment during growth. The alevin life stage is very sensitive to aquatic and sedimental contaminants. When the yolk sac is completely resorbed, the alevin leaves the redd. Young coho spend one to two years in their freshwater natal streams, often spending the first winter in off-channel sloughs, before transforming to the smolt stage. Smolts are generally and as their parr marks fade and the adult's characteristic silver scales start to dominate. Smolts migrate to the ocean from late March through July. Some fish leave fresh water in the spring, spend summer in brackish estuarine ponds, and then return to fresh water in the fall. Coho salmon live in salt water for one to three years before returning to spawn. Some precocious males, known as \"jacks\", return as two-year-old spawners. Spawning males develop kypes, which are strongly hooked snouts and large teeth.\n\nThe traditional range of the coho salmon runs along both sides of the North Pacific Ocean, from Hokkaidō, Japan and eastern Russia, around the Bering Sea to mainland Alaska, and south to Monterey Bay, California. Coho salmon have also been introduced in all the Great Lakes, as well as many landlocked reservoirs throughout the United States. A number of specimens, (more than 20), were caught in waters surrounding Denmark and Norway in 2017. Their source is currently unknown, but the salmon species is farmed at several locations in Europe, making it probable that the animal has slipped the net at such a farm.\n\nThe total North Pacific harvest of coho salmon in 2010 exceeded 6.3 million fish, of which 4.5 million were taken in the United States and 1.7 million in Russia. This corresponds to some 21,000 tonnes in all. Coho salmon are the backbone of the Alaskan troll fishery; however, the majority are caught by the net fishery (gillnet and seine). Coho salmon average 3.5% by fish and 5.9% by weight of the annual Alaska salmon harvest. The total North Pacific yields of the pink salmon, chum salmon and sockeye salmon are some 10–20 fold larger by weight.\n\nIn North America, coho salmon is a game fish in fresh and salt water from July to December, especially with light fishing tackle. It is one of the most popular sport fish in the Pacific Northwest of the United States and Canada. Its popularity is due in part to the reckless abandon which it frequently displays chasing bait and lure while in salt water, and the large number of coastal streams it ascends during its spawning runs. Its habit of schooling in relatively shallow water, and often near beaches, makes it accessible to anglers on the banks, as well as in boats.\n\nOcean-caught coho is regarded as excellent table fare. It has a moderate to high amount of fat, which is considered to be essential when judging taste. Only spring chinook and sockeye salmon have higher levels of fat in their meat. Due to the lower fat content of coho, when smoking, it is best to use a cold-smoking rather than hot-smoking process.\n\nHistorically coho, along with other species, has been a staple in the diet of several indigenous peoples, who would also use it to trade with other tribes farther inland. The coho salmon is also a symbol of several tribes, representing life and sustenance.\n\nIn their freshwater stages, coho feed on plankton in the water column, such as Chironomids, and terrestrial insects that fall into the water. Upon entering the marine environment, they switch to a diet of plankton and fish, with fish making up most of their diets after a certain size. Adult coho feed on a vast variety of prey items that depend on the region they reside in during their second year at sea. Spawning habitats are small streams with stable gravel substrates.\n\nSalmonid species on the west coast of the United States have experienced dramatic declines in abundance during the past several decades as a result of human-induced and natural factors.\n\nThe U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has identified seven populations, called Evolutionary Significant Units (ESUs), of coho salmon in Washington, Oregon and California. Four of these ESUs are listed under the U.S. Endangered Species Act (ESA). These are the Lower Columbia River (threatened), Oregon Coast (threatened), Southern Oregon and Northern California Coasts (threatened), and Central California Coast (endangered). The long-term trend for the listed populations is still downward, though there was one recent good year with an increasing trend in 2001.\n\nThe Puget Sound/Strait of Georgia ESU in Washington is an NMFS \"Species of Concern\". Species of Concern are those species for which insufficient information prevents resolving the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's concerns regarding status and threats and whether to list the species under the ESA.\n\nOn May 6, 1997, NMFS, on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce, listed as threatened the Southern Oregon/Northern California Coast coho salmon ESU. The coho salmon population in the Southern Oregon/Northern California region has declined from an estimated 150,000–400,000 naturally spawning fish in the 1940s to fewer than 10,000 naturally producing adults today. These reductions are due to natural and man-made changes, including short-term atmospheric trends (such as El Niño, which causes extremes in annual rainfall on the northern California coast), predation by the California sea lion and Pacific harbor seal, and commercial timber harvesting.\n\nMore than 680,000 coho salmon returned to Oregon in 2009, double that of 2007. The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife required volunteers to herd fish into hatchery pens. Some creeks were reported to have so many fish, \"you could literally walk across on the backs of coho,\" claimed a Portland television station. Lower temperatures in 2008 North Pacific waters brought in fatter plankton, which, along with greater outflows of Columbia River water, fed the resurgent populations. The 2009 run was so large, food banks were able to freeze for later use.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880258", "title": "Exposition of the Creed", "text": "Exposition of the Creed\n\nAn Exposition of the Creed was a work by John Pearson which was first published in 1659. It was based on sermons he delivered at St Clement's, Eastcheap. It was one of the most influential works on the Apostles' Creed in the Anglican Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880262", "title": "Dess–Martin periodinane", "text": "Dess–Martin periodinane\n\nDess–Martin periodinane (DMP) is a chemical reagent used to oxidize primary alcohols to aldehydes and secondary alcohols to ketones. This periodinane has several advantages over chromium- and DMSO-based oxidants that include milder conditions (room temperature, neutral pH), shorter reaction times, higher yields, simplified workups, high chemoselectivity, tolerance of sensitive functional groups, and a long shelf life. However, use on an industrial scale is made difficult by its cost and its potentially explosive nature. It is named after the American chemists Daniel Benjamin Dess and James Cullen Martin who developed the reagent in 1983. It is based on IBX, but due to the acetate groups attached to the central iodine atom, DMP is much more reactive than IBX and is much more soluble in organic solvents.\n\nThe most friendly synthesis of IBX has been determined to be treating 2-iodobenzoic acid with oxone in water, at elevated temperatures for 3 hours. IBX is then acylated using Ireland and Liu’s\n\nThe classic method presented by Boeckman and Mullins involved heating a solution of potassium bromate, sulfuric acid, 2-iodobenzoic acid to afford IBX (1-hydroxy-1,2-benziodoxol-3(1H)-one 1-oxide, 2-iodoxybenzoic acid). IBX was then acylated using acetic acid and acetic anhydride.\n\nDess–Martin periodinane is mainly used as an oxidant for complex, sensitive and multifunctional alcohols. One of the reasons for its effectiveness is its high selectivity towards complexation of the hydroxyl group, which allows alcohols to rapidly perform ligand exchange; the first step in the oxidation reaction.\n\nProton NMR has indicated that using one equivalent of alcohol forms the intermediate diacetoxyalkoxyperiodinane. The acetate then acts as a base to deprotonate the α-H from the alcohol to afford the carbonyl compound, iodinane, and acetic acid.\n\nWhen a diol or more than one equivalent of alcohol is used, acetoxydialkoxyperiodinane is formed instead. Due to the labile nature of this particular periodinane, oxidation occurs much faster.\n\nSchreiber and coworkers have shown that water increases the rate of the oxidation reaction. Dess and Martin had originally observed that the oxidation of ethanol was increased when there was an extra equivalent of ethanol. It is believed that the rate of dissociation of the final acetate ligand from the iodine is increased, because of the electron-donating ability of the hydroxyl group (thus weakening the I-OAc bond).\n\nUsing the standard Dess–Martin periodinane conditions, alcohols can be oxidized to aldehydes/ketones without affecting furan rings, sulfides, vinyl ethers, and secondary amides. Allylic alcohols are easily oxidized using DMP, which are typically difficult to convert to their respective carbonyls using the typical oxidants.\n\nMyers and coworkers determined that DMP could oxidize N-protected-amino alcohols, without epimerization (unlike most other oxidants, including Swern oxidation). These protected amino alcohols can be very important in the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nBenzylic and allylic alcohols react faster than saturated alcohols, while DMP oxidizes aldoximes and ketoximes to their respective aldehydes and ketones, faster than a primary, secondary or benzylic alcohol to its respective carbonyl.\n\nIn one example of the Dess–Martin oxidation, involves transforming a sensitive α-β-unsaturated alcohol to its corresponding aldehyde. This moiety has been found in several natural products and due to its high functionality, it could be a valuable synthetic building block in organic synthesis. Thongsornkleeb and Danheiser oxidized this sensitive alcohol by employing the Dess Martin Oxidation and altering the work up procedure (diluting with pentanes, washing with poly(4-vinylpyridine) to remove the acetic acid generated during the reaction, filtering and concentrating via distillation.\n\nDifluoro and monofluoro alcohols are more difficult to oxidize. Swern oxidation has been used, but a large excess of the oxidant had to be employed, and in some cases did not give reproducible results. Linderman and Graves found DMP was successful in most cases but could not tolerate the presence of nucleophilic functional groups in the alcohol, as these reacted with DMP by displacing acetate. Using the compound shown below produced the desired carbonyls in high yields as the addition of the \"tert\"-butoxy group, due to its steric bulk, minimizes these side reactions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880266", "title": "Helen Vanderburg", "text": "Helen Vanderburg\n\nHelen Vanderburg (born January 12, 1959) is a former Canadian synchronized swimmer and world champion.\n\nVanderburg began synchronized swimming in 1969 at age eleven. From 1971 to 1973, she was a member of junior national championship teams, and in 1973 she captured the junior Canadian solo and duet championships. In 1977, Vanderburg joined the senior ranks, winning the solo and duet competition, with partner Michelle Calkins, at the Canadian Aquatic Championships, the first of three years that she won both events. Vanderburg was the first non-American to win the World Championship at both the Solo and Duet events, doing so at the 1978 World Aquatic Championships in West Berlin. After Calkins' retirement in 1978 Vanderburg partnered with Kelly Kryczka, they went on to win gold in the duet at the 1979 Pan American Games, Vanderburg also won gold in the solo event. Vanderburg retired from competition in 1979.\n\n1979\n\n1978\n\n1977\n\n1973\n\nVanderburg was awarded the Velma Springstead Trophy in 1979 as Canada's outstanding female athlete of the year Vanderburg was elected to the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame in 1983. She was inducted into the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame in 1980, and in 1985, she was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880273", "title": "Priscilla Owen", "text": "Priscilla Owen\n\nPriscilla Richman Owen (born October 4, 1954) is the Chief United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. She was previously a Justice of the Texas Supreme Court.\n\nPriscilla Owen was born in Palacios, Texas. Her earliest years were spent on her family's farm in Collegeport. She later grew up and went to school in Waco. She worked part-time during high school and college at her stepfather's insurance company. During summers, she returned to Collegeport, working in rice fields and herding cattle.\n\nOwen started college at the University of Texas at Austin and later transferred to Baylor University to be near her family in Waco. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree, \"cum laude\", from Baylor. She then went to Baylor Law School, where she became editor of the \"Baylor Law Review\" and graduated \"cum laude\" in 1977, receiving a Juris Doctor. From among approximately 400 examinees, at age 23, she received the highest score on the December 1977 Texas bar examination.\n\nShe joined the Andrews & Kurth law firm in Houston, as a litigator, specializing in oil and gas litigation. She made partner at the age of 30. In private practice, Owen handled a broad range of civil matters at the trial and appellate levels. She was admitted to practice before various state and federal trial courts and appellate courts. She is a member of the American Law Institute, the American Judicature Society, the American Bar Association, and a Fellow of the American and Houston Bar Foundations.\n\nIn 1993, after 17 years at Andrews & Kurth, she was asked to run for the Texas Supreme Court as a Republican. She won with 53 percent of the vote, promising to restore integrity and dignity to a court tainted by scandal.\n\nOwen had written articles and lobbied the Texas Legislature to eliminate partisan election of judges, arguing that they hinder the ability of courts to provide impartial justice. When she was up for reelection in 2000, Democrats did not put up an opponent against her, and she was returned to office with 84 percent of the vote, defeating a Libertarian opponent with the help of endorsements from newspapers statewide.\n\nOwen served on the board of Texas Hearing and Service Dogs, which rescues dogs from pounds, provides training for them, and then gives the dogs to disabled people who cannot otherwise afford them. In addition, she was a founding member of the St. Barnabas Episcopal Mission in Austin and has taught Sunday school.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Congress reduced funding for the Legal Services Corporation. Owen was part of a committee that successfully encouraged the Texas Legislature to enact legislation that has resulted in millions of dollars per year in additional funds for providers of legal services to the poor.\n\nOwen served as the Texas Supreme Court's representative on the Court-Annexed Mediation Task Force, working to resolve differences between lawyer and non-lawyer mediators, in order to provide an alternative to expensive courtroom trials. She has been a member of the Gender Bias Reform Implementation Committee and statewide committees regarding legal services to the poor and pro bono legal services.\n\nOwen also served on the boards of advisors of the Houston and Austin Chapters of the Federalist Society. Owen was instrumental in organizing a group known as Family Law 2000 that seeks to find ways to educate parents about the effect that divorce can have on their children and to lessen the adversarial nature of legal proceedings when a marriage is dissolved.\n\nOwen was nominated on May 9, 2001, by President George W. Bush to fill a vacancy on the Fifth Circuit created by Judge William Lockhart Garwood, who had taken senior status on January 23, 1997. Senate Democrats immediately decided to block her nomination for two reasons. First, the Democrats were angry that two previous nominees who President Clinton had nominated to Garwood's empty seat, Jorge Rangel and Enrique Moreno, were never given hearings by the United States Senate during Clinton's second term because the Senate at the time controlled by Republicans. Second, they considered her to be too conservative. As a result the Senate Democrats, who controlled the Senate Judiciary Committee during the 107th Congress, did not let Owen's nomination come up for a vote. In 2003, after Republicans had taken the Senate back, Democrats filibustered her. In 2005, after Republicans picked up four more seats in the Senate during the 109th Congress, her nomination was again considered.\n\nOwen had considerable judicial experience as a member of the Texas Supreme Court, and had been rated \"Well-Qualified\" (highest possible) by the American Bar Association for the Fifth Circuit position. According to ABC News reporter Jan Crawford Greenburg, Senate Democrats strategically \"targeted outspoken conservatives who were potential Supreme Court picks...their successes in filibustering women, Hispanics, and African Americans in 2003 undermined Bush's plans to replace [retiring U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor] with another woman or a minority.\" Supporters of the Owen nomination asserted that her criticized rulings were often near-unanimous, or simply followed federal precedents. Owen was touted as a judicial conservative who would, in the words of President Bush, \"interpret the law, not legislate from the bench.\"\n\nOpponents, however, criticized her for what they claimed were her conservative positions on contentious social and economic issues, and pro-corporate decisions. Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy said President Bush's appointee for Attorney General, Alberto Gonzales, during his service with Owen on the Texas Supreme Court had frequently criticized Owen; Kennedy said Gonzales argued one of Owen's positions taken in dissent would \"judicially amend\" a statute for the benefit of manufacturers selling defective products. On abortion, Owen was criticized by pro-choice groups for her interpretation of Texas's parental-notification law, and for joining a majority decision on overrides only once.\n\nIn May 2005, a compromise was arranged by a bipartisan group of moderate senators called the Gang of 14, which allowed for Owen to finally be given a full Senate vote. On May 24, 2005, debate on her nomination was ended by a vote of 81–18. She was finally confirmed by a vote of 55–43 on May 25, 2005, and was sworn in on June 6, 2005. Owen was the third judge nominated by Bush to the Fifth Circuit and confirmed by the United States Senate.\n\nIn 2005, Owen was often cited as a potential Bush Supreme Court nominee to replace retired justice Sandra Day O'Connor. On September 17, 2005, Minority Leader Harry Reid informed Majority Leader Bill Frist that Owen would be filibustered if she were nominated for the Supreme Court, but Frist believed at the time that Owen could still be confirmed in the face of a filibuster.\n\nIn June 2015, Owen joined Judge Carolyn Dineen King in reversing an unconditional writ of habeas corpus granted to Albert Woodfox, one of the Angola Three inmates at the Louisiana State Penitentiary. The ruling, which held that Judge James Joseph Brady of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana abused his discretion in issuing the writ, kept 69-year-old Woodfox in solitary confinement at the penitentiary until his release on February 19, 2016. In 2010, Owen joined Emilio M. Garza and Edith Brown Clement in affirming the dismissal of the complaint in Doe v. Silsbee Independent School District. The plaintiff (\"H.S.\") was a cheerleader who was ordered by her high school to cheer for her alleged rapist, a basketball player named Rakheem Bolton. H.S. refused and was kicked off the team. She sued, claiming a violation of her First Amendment right to free speech. The Eastern District of Texas Judge Thad Heartfield granted the school district's motion to dismiss, and Judges Clement, Garza, and Owen affirmed. H.S. was ordered to pay the school $45,000 in legal fees for filing a \"frivolous\" lawsuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880284", "title": "List of Italian hip hop musicians", "text": "List of Italian hip hop musicians\n\nThis is a List of hip hop musicians from Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880296", "title": "Serge Cardin", "text": "Serge Cardin\n\nSerge Cardin (born July 2, 1950) is a Quebec politician. He was a Parti Québécois member of the National Assembly of Quebec for the Sherbrooke electoral district from 2012 to 2014, and was formerly a Bloc Québécois Member of Parliament for the federal riding of Sherbrooke from 1998 to 2011.\n\nIn the 2011 Canadian federal election, he lost his seat to Pierre-Luc Dusseault, then a 19-year-old university student and the youngest MP ever elected in Canadian history. In the 2012 Quebec election, he unseated the incumbent Premier of Quebec Jean Charest who was also his predecessor for the federal riding.\n\nBorn in Sherbrooke, Quebec, Cardin is an accountant. He was a city councillor in Sherbrooke from 1986 to 1998.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Result compared to Action démocratique\n\nNote: Conservative vote is compared to the total of the Canadian Alliance vote and Progressive Conservative vote in 2000 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880304", "title": "Nordonia High School", "text": "Nordonia High School\n\nNordonia High School is a public high school in Macedonia, Ohio. It is the only high school in the Nordonia Hills City School District. Their mascot is a knight. There are approximately 1,500+ students currently enrolled in the high school. The colors of the school are green and white. Formerly of the Northeast Ohio Conference (NOC), Nordonia athletic teams now compete in the Suburban League.\n\nThe school is the only high school in the Nordonia Hills City School District, which is located in northern Summit County, in between the cities of Akron and Cleveland. The district name is a portmanteau from the communities it primarily serves: Northfield and Northfield Center, Macedonia, and Sagamore Hills. The district also includes the northwestern section of adjacent Boston Heights.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1880305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880305", "title": "Yam (god)", "text": "Yam (god)\n\nYam (also \"Yamm\"; Semitic: ) is the god of the sea in the Canaanite pantheon.\nYam takes the role of the adversary of Baal in the Ugaritic \"Baal Cycle\".\n\nThe deity's name derives from the Canaanite word for \"Sea\", and is one name of the Ugaritic god of Rivers and Sea. \nAlso titled \"ṯpṭ nhr\" (\" the Judge of the River\"), he is also one of the \" 'ilhm\" (\" 'ilahuuma/'ilahiima Elohim\") or sons of El, the name given to the Levantine pantheon.\n\nOf all the gods, despite being the champion of El, Yam holds special hostility against Baal Hadad, son of Dagon. Yam is a deity of the sea and his palace is in the abyss associated with the depths, or Biblical tehom, of the oceans. \nYam is the deity of the primordial chaos and represents the power of the sea, untamed and raging; he is seen as ruling storms and the disasters they wreak, and was an important divinity to the maritime Phoenicians. The gods cast out Yam from the heavenly mountain Sappan (modern Jebel Aqra; \"Sappan\" is cognate to \"Tsephon\").\n\nThe fight of Baal-Hadad with Yam has long been equated with the \"Chaoskampf\" mytheme in Mesopotamian mythology in which a god fights and destroys a \"dragon\" or sea monster; the seven-headed dragon Lotan is associated closely with him and Yam is often described as \"the serpent\". Both Mesopotamian Tiamat and Biblical Leviathan are adduced as reflexes of this narrative, as is the fight of Zeus with Typhon in Greek mythology.\n\nIn the Ugaritic \"Baal Cycle\", El, chief of the Gods and father to the second-tier divinities, appoints Yam to fight Hadad-Baal.\nIn the \"interpretatio graeca\" of Philo of Byblos, El corresponds to Cronus, Hadad-Baal to Zeus, Yam to Poseidon and Mot to Hades.\n\nKTU 1.2 iii:\n\nAfter a great war in heaven involving many of the gods, Yam is soundly defeated:\n\nHadad holds a great feast, but not long afterwards he battles Mot (death) and through his mouth he descends to the netherworld. Yet like Yam, Death too is defeated and in h. I AB iii the Lord arises from the dead:\n\nThe narrative of the conflict of Yam with Baal-Hadad has long been compared to parallels in Mesopotamian mythology, the battle between Tiamat and Enlil and Babylonian Marduk and, more generically, the \"Chaoskampf\" motif in comparative mythology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880311", "title": "Orinoco Flow", "text": "Orinoco Flow\n\n\"Orinoco Flow\", also released as \"Orinoco Flow (Sail Away)\", is a song by the Irish singer songwriter Enya, released on 15 October 1988 on WEA Records in Europe and 10 January 1989 by Geffen Records in the United States. It was released as the lead single from the musician's second studio album, \"Watermark\" (1988). It topped the UK Singles Chart for three weeks and received two Grammy Award nominations for Best Music Video and Best New Age Performance at the 32nd Annual Grammy Awards.\n\nThe song was released as the lead single from Enya's second studio album, \"Watermark\", in October 1988. It became a global success, reaching number-one in several countries, including Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, where it stayed at the top of the UK Singles Chart for three weeks. In the United States, the song peaked at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in April 1989.\n\nIn 1994, the song was licensed to Virgin Records for the best-selling new-age music compilation album \"Pure Moods\", and in 1998 a special-edition 10th anniversary remix single was released. Part of its name is derived from Orinoco Studios (now Miloco Studios), where it was recorded, and its pizzicato chords (generated by altering the Roland D-50 synthesizer's \"Pizzagogo\" patch) are highly recognizable as a new age sound.\nSigned to WEA by Rob Dickins, who served as executive producer of \"Watermark,\" \"Orinoco Flow\" was inspired by the Colombo-Venezuelan river, and it paid homage to Dickins in the line \"with Rob Dickins at the wheel.\"\n\n1988\n\n1998\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880316", "title": "Evening Falls...", "text": "Evening Falls...\n\n\"Evening Falls...\" is a song by Irish singer, songwriter and musician Enya. It was released in December 1988. It was released as the second single and as well as the eighth track from their second studio album, \"Watermark\" (1988). It is a new-age track that was written by Enya and Roma Ryan and produced by Nicky Ryan.\n\n\"Evening Falls...\" is a song that Roma described as \"a song of a spirit travelling\". It is based on a ghost story that Roma had heard, about a woman who had recurring dreams of a house in America, only to accidentally come across it years later in England. Upon entering the house, its inhabitants become frightened of the woman as they explain she had haunted the house each time she dreamed about it. Nicky thought a melody Enya had written suited the story, which led to Roma writing a lyric inspired by it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880317", "title": "Liavek", "text": "Liavek\n\nLiavek is a series of five fantasy anthologies edited by Emma Bull and Will Shetterly set in a shared world.\n\nOrson Scott Card found the initial volume to be \"an example of what can be accomplished [in a shared-world project] when almost everything goes right.\"\n\nThe collections were published by Ace Books with contributors including Bull, Shetterly, Gene Wolfe, Jane Yolen, John M. Ford, Kara Dalkey, Barry B. Longyear, Megan Lindholm, Nancy Kress, Patricia C. Wrede, Steven Brust, Nate Bucklin, Pamela Dean, Gregory Frost, Charles de Lint, Charles R. Saunders, Walter Jon Williams, Alan Moore and Bradley Denton. Related works, including a comic book, have been brought out by other publishers.\n\nLocated on the southern shore of the Sea of Luck at the mouth of the Cat River, Liavek is a hot, busy trade city. Magic is present and based on a combination of 'birth luck' and the length of time one's mother was in labor. Everyone is privy to some luck, but using it to their advantage is no easy feat. On an annual basis, luck or magic must be invested in an object outside of oneself, and only then can it be used to power spells. Investment is difficult and dangerous, while not investing luck and magic will result in the magic draining away. This is more prevalent in magicians who will find their life drain away with the magic. \n\nEdited by Will Shetterly and Emma Bull, published by Ace Books in 1985\n\n\nEdited by Shetterly and Bull, published by Ace Books in 1986\n\n\nEdited by Shetterly and Bull, published by Ace Books in 1987\n\nEdited by Shetterly and Bull, published by Ace Books in 1988\n\n\nEdited by Shetterly and Bull, published by Ace Books in 1990\n\n\nIn 1989 Tor Books published \"Casting Fortune\", a collection of short stories by John M. Ford - this brought together his stories from the second and third volumes of \"Liavek\" together with a new novella in the Liavek shared world. The stories are:\n\nMoore's Liavek story was adapted into comic book format and published as \"Alan Moore's Hypothetical Lizard\" in 2005.\n\n\"Cousins\", by Dean appears in the 2006 anthology from Firebird Books, \"Firebirds Rising\", edited by Sharyn November\n\nOn May 12th, 2015, Diversion Publishing released \"Points of Departure: Liavek Stories\"; republishing a collection of short stories set in the world of Liavek, by Pamela Dean and Patricia C Wrede.\n\nIn 2017, Shetterly announced that he and Bull were allowing the use of the Liavek setting at no cost, for works earning less than $3000, subject to certain conditions.\n"}
{"id": "1880318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880318", "title": "Di Gi Charat", "text": "Di Gi Charat\n\nSeveral specials, OVAs, and movies have been adapted as prequels, sequels and alternate stories. Trading cards and video games are among the many forms of merchandise released for the series.\nThe original series, movie, and Leave it to Piyoko! were licensed in North America by Synch-Point. The manga series is licensed by several companies. The original series, 4 specials and the Winter Garden special are now licensed by Sentai Filmworks.\n\nThe characters of Di Gi Charat and her sidekick Gema first appeared in July 1998 in \"From Gamers\", a promotional magazine for the Akihabara store, Gamers. In August of that year, the two appeared in , a four-panel comic-strip in \"From Gamers\" drawn by dōjin artist Koge-Donbo. Dejiko was later adopted as the mascot of Gamers.\n\nBroccoli Books in the US published the \"Di Gi Charat Theater\" series, which contain a number of Di Gi Charat manga by Koge Donbo and several dōjin artists. The comic strip \"Gema Gema\", which still runs in \"From Gamers\", is republished in these volumes. Broccoli Books have stated that all the manga will be translated and released. However, due to Broccoli closing their offices in the US in 2008, \"Dejiko's Adventure\" and \"Leave it to Piyoko!\" were left unfinished.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCurrent Di Gi Charat Manga released in North America:\n\nBroccoli Books\nDi Gi Charat Theater - Dejiko's Summer Vacation\nDi Gi Charat Theater - Piyoko is Number One!\nDi Gi Charat Theater - Dejiko's Adventure\nDi Gi Charat Theater - Leave it to Piyoko!\n\nViz Media\n\nStudio Ironcat\n\nComic Di Gi, a bimonthly magazine that is issued by Broccoli, included a Di Gi Charat comic called GemaGema Theater by Koge-Donbo.\n\n\n\nAn animated Dejiko and her sidekick Gema first appeared on in a television advertisement for Gamers, set to the store's theme song, \"Welcome!\" by Hiroko Kato. The first anime premiered on the Tokyo Broadcasting System on November 29, 1999. Set in a Gamers store in Akihabara, the original series was sixteen episodes long, with each episode running for three minutes. Light-hearted and relatively cheaply animated, the series follows the story of Di Gi Charat (Dejiko), her new sidekick Petit Charat (Puchiko) and Gema, who arrive in Akihabara, Tokyo. Dejiko dreams of becoming an idol, only to realize that they have no money and nowhere to stay. The manager of a Gamers store takes pity on them, and the series follows their exploits as they work in the shop. The series introduces Dejiko's rival, \"Rabi-en-Rose\", and minor characters Abarenbou, Takeshi, Yoshimi, Takurou and Takurou. All other citizens of Akihabara, including the manager, are drawn as anthropomorphic thumbs, the reason being that Akihabara is one of the largest shopping areas of Earth for video games, among other things, and thumbs are most commonly used by people to press buttons while playing video games. The creative team was given free rein over the content of Di Gi Charat, and it is outrageous at times. The anime is directed by Hiroaki Sakurai, animated by Madhouse and produced by BROCCOLI.\n\nAs 2008 was the 10th anniversary of the series \"Di Gi Charat\", Broccoli Inc. decided to recast the actresses of the main characters of \"Di Gi Charat\". The new actress for Dejiko, Puchiko, and Usada were Satomi Akesaka, Nao Minakami, and Rieka Yazawa respectively.\n\nHowever, as of the 15th Anniversary in 2013, Broccoli Inc. has since reverted to using their original voice actresses and retconned the 10th Anniversary in a comic.\n\nDespite the series' low budget and its status as an advertisement for a games store, sequels for Di Gi Charat, several feature-length Di Gi Charat special episodes and OVAs, followed. Each special was around twenty minutes long. The specials introduce the Black Gema Gema Gang (Black Gema Gema Dan) and Dejiko's rival, Pyocola Analogue III (Piyoko).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n is a movie that premiered on December 22, 2001 in Japan. The twenty-minute animation follows the adventures of Dejiko, Piyoko and Gema as they use the spaceship seen in the first episode to travel back to Dejiko's home planet, \"Planet Di Gi Charat\". It was licensed by Synch-Point and announced at Anime Boston 2003 along with \"Leave it to Piyoko!\".\n\nSynch-Point planned to include a 13-minute bonus episode called \"Kuchi kara Bazooka\" (\"Rocket From the Mouth Special\" or \"Upchuck Bazooka\") that was also included in the Japanese release, but it was never released.\n\nA prequel of sorts with its own alternate continuity, Panyo Panyo aired from January 5, 2002 until September 29, 2002. The characters are drawn to look much younger. Princess Dejiko and Puchiko wish to escape castle life to help people of Planet Di Gi Charat achieve happiness. Pyocola Analogue III and hologram Digi Devil try to stop her. In this series Dejiko, Puchiko and Gema meet friends Meek and Rinna.\n\nPanyo Panyo was arranged into five-minute mini episodes in order to make it feel like classic four panel manga. Panyo Panyo did not have the wide open endings which the original series had.\n\n is an eight episode OVA that was released in 2003. The OVA is the only show in the series where Dejiko is not the main character. Instead it focuses on Piyoko, Rik, Ky, Coo, and the rest of the Black Gema Gema Gang as they leave Planet Analogue and make their way to Earth to kidnap Dejiko.\n\nAt Anime Boston 2003, Synch-Point announced they have acquired North American distribution rights to the OVA. It was released on two DVDs on November 15, 2005 and March 7, 2006. Miyuki Sawashiro, the voice actor of Puchiko, also dubbed Puchiko in English for the first six episodes. It marked the first time a Japanese voice actor repeated their role in English for an English anime dub.\n\nAn alternate story to the original series, Nyo!, aired from April 6, 2003 until March 28, 2004. There were two stories for each of the fifty-two twenty-minute episodes.\n\n is a two part spin-off series. Dejiko is around 20 years old and Puchiko is now around 15. This was also the last animated project to feature the original voices of the characters. The story starts on Christmas with Dejiko working at a cake shop. She meets a young man named Senba Takuro while going home on Christmas night. Dejiko accidentally drops her cake, but Takuro exchanges his for hers, and love starts after several unplanned meetings with each other.\n\nA promotional video premiered at Anime Expo 2006 during the Di Gi Charat panel sponsored by TBS, PONYCANYON and Broccoli. The series first aired on TBS on December 23, 2006 and December 24, 2006 and later on BS-i.\n\nMost of the characters of Di Gi Charat originally debuted in the yonkoma \"Gema Gema\", and later appeared in the anime series. Across all of the Di Gi Charat series, each catgirl ends their sentence with a cat sounding suffix, such as Dejiko's \"Nyo\". The four DVDs of the series \"Panyo Panyo Di Gi Charat\" are named after each of the four catgirl's onomatopoeia. Piyoko talks in a similar manner.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA great number of Di Gi Charat albums have been released, including soundtracks to the anime as well as collections of original songs sung by the main characters. These albums include drama CDs which expand the Di Gi Charat story.\n\nA game titled \"Di Gi Charat Fantasy\" was released for the Dreamcast. It's a visual novel style game, in which the player takes on the role of a boy with a crush on Dejiko who, along with Dejiko, Puchiko, and Rabi-en-Rose, gets sucked through a dimensional vortex into a fantasy world. The player finds himself alone with Dejiko in a forest, and she's lost her memory. In this game, players are given a very different view of Dejiko, as the amnesia makes her innocent and shy.\n\nThis game later was ported to PlayStation 2 and was renamed \"Di Gi Charat Fantasy Excellent\". Since the PS2 version uses DVD-ROM media, it features improved FMV cutscenes and additional VA. The PS2 port came with a Standard release and a \"Premium Box\" release that contained one extra disc.\n\nDi Gi Charat: Digi-communication I & II\n\nGlove on Fight\n\nDejiko appeared as a selectable character in the 2D fighting game Glove on Fight for the PC. The game contains several popular mascot characters such as Ecoco and characters from well known visual novels and anime such as To Heart and Tsukihime. This was a fanmade (or doujinshi) game by the circle French-Bread.\n\nDejiko no Maibura\n\nDreamcast game.\n\nDejiko no Mahjong Party\n\nGame Boy Color game.\n\nDi Gi Charat Puzzle\n\nGame for iOS.\n\nTHEM anime gave the original TV series one star out of five and described the characters as cute but with \"schizophrenic, sometimes homicidal personalities that just incite cringes from any sane member of the audience\" Carl Kimlinger from Anime News Network gave \"Di Gi Charat Nyo\"'s first DVD a review in which he describes Dejiko having a \"mercenary personality and butt-scratching manners\" with a \"frilly-cute exterior\". In \"Panyo Panyo Di Gi Charat\", Carlo Santos from Anime News Network describes Dejiko having a temper that \"adds some spice to her goody-goody nature\". In contrast, in the alternate story Winter Garden where she is now twenty, Chris Beveridge from the Fandom Post describes Dejiko as a \"normal young woman\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1880319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880319", "title": "Wonder Man (DC Comics)", "text": "Wonder Man (DC Comics)\n\nWonder Man is the name of three fictional comic book characters in the DC Comics universe. The first is a superhero and his only appearance was in \"Superman\" # 163 (August 1963). The second is Hercules, who uses the name when he replaces Wonder Woman as the representative of the Olympian Gods in \"Wonder Woman\" v3, #3. The third is Dane of Elysium, who is a male version of Diana Prince that exists on Earth-11, where the genders of the superheroes are reversed.\n\nWithin the story, he appeared on the scene and eventually came to rival Superman, possessing the same powers as he, but not his weaknesses. His popularity surpassed Superman which left him depressed, feeling like a has-been.\n\nIt was later revealed that Wonder Man used to be Ajax, one of Superman's duplicate robots that he used for help or hiding his identity. Ajax was kidnapped by the Superman Revenge Squad while in space, who turned him into a real living being while still having his bionic super-powers. The invaders wanted to use him to remove Superman so that he would no longer be in their way for their attack. Wonder Man, not being evil, thwarted their plan with Superman when he learned of their full intentions. After the aliens' defeat, Superman offered Wonder Man (who revealed to him his secret) the chance to fight at his side, but the aliens installed a death-mechanism in him that was triggered to kill him within a week. Wonder Man died, and then laid in a grave which said that he was born a robot, but died a human.\n\nHercules appears during the events of \"One Year Later\". Now shaven and bearing an updated version of the armour worn in the \"Hercules Unbound\" series, he replaces Wonder Woman as an agent of Olympus. He is referred to as \"Wonder Man\" by Cheetah and Nemesis. He temporarily set up his base in the Greek Embassy.\n\nIn \"Wonder Woman\" v3 #4, Hercules is revealed to have lied about his reasons for returning to Earth and was actually partnering with Circe.\n\nDane of Elysium was introduced in \"Countdown Presents: The Search for Ray Palmer - Superwoman/Batwoman\" #1 (2008) as an inhabitant of Earth-11, which is home to reverse-gendered superheroes. He is the reverse gender of New Earth's Diana Prince. It is revealed that Dane was exiled from \"Woman's World\" when he killed Maxine Lord on national television for controlling Superwoman. He eventually led his male Amazons into battle against the United States, but was defeated by Superwoman and the Justice League.\n\nWonder Man from Earth-11 is separate from Wonder Warrior, who was another male version of Wonder Woman created by Mister Mxyzptlk and existed in a pre-\"Crisis\" reverse-gendered reality.\n\n\nAjax:\n\nDane of Elysium:\n"}
{"id": "1880321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880321", "title": "Storms in Africa", "text": "Storms in Africa\n\n\"Storms in Africa\" is a song by the Irish singer, songwriter and musician Enya recorded for her second studio album \"Watermark\" (1988). A rearranged version with English lyrics called \"Storms in Africa (Part II)\" was included in some later pressings of \"Watermark\", and released as a single in June, 1989 that reached number 41 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe song was included on the soundtrack for the \"Green Card\" (1990). For a time, the Australian airline Ansett Airlines used the song as its theme prior to its collapse in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "1880325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880325", "title": "James Wan", "text": "James Wan\n\nJames Wan (born 26 February 1977) is a Malaysian-born Australian film director, screenwriter, producer, and comic book writer. He rose to prominence as co-creator of the \"Saw\" film franchise. He served as a producer on all eight films in the series, in addition to directing \"Saw\" (2004) and co-writing \"Saw III\" (2006). He also directed \"Dead Silence\" and \"Death Sentence\" (both 2007), \"Insidious\" (2010), \"The Conjuring\" and \"\" (both 2013), \"Furious 7\" (2015), \"The Conjuring 2\" (2016), and \"Aquaman\" (2018). \"Furious 7\" and \"Aquaman\" each grossed $1 billion dollars, making Wan the eighth director with two films that have reached that milestone..\n\nWan was born on 26 February 1977 in Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia, and is of Chinese descent. Wan and his family moved to Perth, Western Australia when he was seven. He attended Lake Tuggeranong College in Canberra, before returning to Perth as an adult. Wan relocated from Perth to Melbourne, where he attended RMIT University; he graduated from RMIT with a Bachelor of Arts in Media in 1998.\n\nBefore his success in the mainstream film industry, he made his first feature-length film, \"Stygian\", with Shannon Young, which won \"Best Guerrilla Film\" at the Melbourne Underground Film Festival (MUFF) in 2000.\n\nPrior to 2003, Wan and his friend, screenwriter Leigh Whannell, had begun writing a script based for a horror film, citing inspiration from their dreams and fears. Upon completing the script, Wan and Whannell had wanted to select an excerpt from their script, later to be known as \"Saw\" and film it to pitch their film to studios. With the help of Charlie Clouser, who had composed the score for the film and a few stand-in actors, Wan and Whannell shot the film with relatively no budget. Whannell also decided to star in the film.\n\nAfter the release of the full-length \"Saw\", the film was met with overwhelming success in the box office both domestically and internationally. The film ended up grossing $55 million in America, and $48 million in other countries, totaling over US$103 million worldwide. This was over $100 million more than the production budget. This led the studio to greenlight the sequel \"Saw II\", and later the rest of the \"Saw\" franchise based on the yearly success of the previous installment. Since its inception, \"Saw\" has become the highest grossing horror franchise of all time worldwide in unadjusted dollars. In the United States only, \"Saw\" is the second highest grossing horror franchise, behind only the \"Friday the 13th\" films by a margin of $10 million.\n\nSince creating the franchise, Wan and Leigh Whannell have served as executive producers to the sequels \"Saw II\", \"Saw III\", \"Saw IV\", \"Saw V\", \"Saw VI\", \"Saw 3D\" and the recent \"Jigsaw\".\n\nThe release of \"Saw 3D\", complete with its subtitle, was to signify the completion of the franchise; however, Costas Mandylor, an actor in the seventh installment, revealed that multiple endings to the film had been shot and the series could continue depending on which was used. The sixth sequel continued the profit margin performance of the original film and earned US$136 million in the global market, against a production budget of US$20 million.\n\nIn August 2012, various online horror publications stated that a source at Lionsgate, the franchise's production company, had revealed intentions for an eighth \"Saw\" sequel, but it was at a \"tinkering\" stage at the time of the disclosure.\n\nIn 2007, Wan directed two feature films. The first was the horror film \"Dead Silence\", which was the result of advice from Wan and Whannell's agent at the time; Whannell has since stated that the film was a negative experience for him:\nIt all started when James and I returned from the Sundance Film Festival, where we had screened 'Saw' to much success. Our 'representatives' promptly told us that we should get another deal for a film stitched up before it was released. It was presented as a kind of insurance – if 'Saw' was a flop, we had another film to fall back on. Seems logical. There was only one problem – I didn't have any ideas for a new film. I had barely been able to catch my breath throughout the whole 'Saw' experience, let alone dream up another film idea. Instead of telling our representatives that they had to wait until I came up with an idea I really liked though, I locked myself in the bedroom of the crappy apartment we had rented in Hollywood and tried to force an idea out like a particularly stubborn hangover shit. It was creativity at gunpoint. If I could go back in time, I would politely tell everyone to go fuck themselves, but back then...no. I paced and paced and even took up smoking for a while, so stressed out was I.\n\n\"Dead Silence\" featured Australian actor Ryan Kwanten (\"True Blood\" television series), and is based on the premise of a legend, whereby the ghost of a ventriloquist, Mary Shaw, removes the tongue of any person who screams in its presence. Rather than a gore movie, Wan described the film as \"a creepy doll movie. It's in the spirit of those old \"Twilight Zone\" episodes or Hammer Horror Films. Very old-school.\"\n\nWan's second directorial film of 2007 was \"Death Sentence\", a film adapted from the Brian Garfield novel of the same name that was written as the sequel to \"Death Wish\". The film's protagonist is played by Kevin Bacon and has no connection to the horror genre—instead, Bacon stars as a father who seeks revenge for his murdered son, who is killed by a local gang. Whannell features as a minor character in the film, playing one of the gang members who is eventually killed by Bacon's character. Wan described the film as \"a raw and gritty, 70s styled revenge thriller ... It's my arthouse movie with guns.\"\n\nHaving worked on his previous three films continuously, Wan told CraveOnline that he was ready for \"a bit of time off just to chill... but at the same time I'm using this opportunity to write again\" following the completion of \"Death Sentence\".\n\nIn 2008, Wan directed a trailer for the survival horror video game \"Dead Space\".\n\nNext, Wan directed the horror film \"Insidious\", which premiered at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival as part of the \"Midnight Madness\" program and was sold to Sony Pictures Worldwide for a seven-figure sum within four hours of the premiere's conclusion. The film began its American theatrical release in the first weekend of April 2011 and achieved third place at the box office, with an estimated US$13.5 million in ticket sales.\n\nStarring Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne and Barbara Hershey, the film was made independently, as Wan sought complete creative control and also wanted to make a film that was markedly different from the gore that he had become synonymous with due to \"Saw\". Wan stated in an interview, \"the fact that \"Insidious\" was not being run by a committee really afforded me the luxury to make a film with lots of creepy, bizarre moments that a studio might not 'get.'\" Both Wan and Whannel stated that they wanted to use techniques such as restraint and silence to create a horror film, similar to \"The Sixth Sense\", \"The Others\" and David Lynch's films.\n\nFollowing the release of \"Insidious\", Wan revealed in an interview, in regard to his career:\n\nI definitely do want to experiment in other genres, or make films in other genres because I love, Leigh and I have, we're not just horror fans. We're film fans. I love action films. I want to do action films. I want to do romantic comedies. I love all this stuff. So, if I find the good material, I'll do it.\n\nOn 13 November 2012, news emerged of Wan's ongoing negotiations to direct an adaption of the 1980s television series \"MacGyver\". Wan posted on his Twitter account: \"People are surprised?? You guys never saw shades of MacG in Jigsaw??\", in response to public comments regarding the news. The screenplay is complete and the series' creator, Lee Zlotoff, is also involved. However, the film never materialized and instead, a reboot television series titled \"MacGyver\" premiered in September 2016. Wan executive produces the series and directed the pilot episode.\n\nThe horror film news website Bloody Disgusting confirmed Wan's directorial involvement with a film entitled \"The Warren Files\". The film, later retitled \"The Conjuring\", centred on the real life exploits of Ed and Lorraine Warren, a married couple that investigated paranormal events. The film focused on the couple's most famous case second to the Amityville haunting, in which they investigated a witch's curse on a Rhode Island family farm. In his second collaboration with the pair, Patrick Wilson featured in the film, and he and actress Vera Farmiga played paranormal investigators Ed and Lorraine Warren, respectively. Filming commenced in North Carolina, United States, in late February 2012, and New Line Cinema, together with Warner Bros. Pictures, had initially slated the film for a release on 25 January 2013. A test screening of the film occurred in October 2012 at the New York Comic Con event, where it screened in the IGN Theater, and the audience feedback was overwhelmingly positive. At that stage, Wan had several more weeks before the film was completed. The film was released in July 2013.\n\nAfter work on \"The Conjuring\" was complete, Wan directed a sequel to 2010's \"Insidious\". The film was once again written by Wan's longtime collaborator and close friend, Whannel, and the cast of the original film returned. Filming for the sequel commenced in January 2013, and the film was released on 13 September 2013. The budget for the film had been described as \"shoestring\" by one media outlet. Oren Peli, the creator of the \"Paranormal Activity\" franchise, returned as an executive producer. Film District distributed \"\".\n\nWan stated in an interview following a test screening of \"The Conjuring\":\nI think the sequel to 'Insidious' is kind of my reaction to \"Saw\", where for my own reason I wasn't as involved in the sequels, and so I felt with \"Insidious\", I think it would be good to shepherd it and keep it more in track to the version I had when I made the first film so that it doesn't detour too far. So yeah, I'm kind of working with Leigh [Whannell] on the story and the script.\n\nI never set out to make sequels to any of my films I direct,\" Wan further explained. \"If they happen, that's great because that means people out there love it and they want more of it, but I always felt with \"Insidious\" we created this really interesting world that we can explore more, and so even though we didn't set out to make a sequel, I felt that there are stories still out there that could be told.\n\nIn early 2013, Wan entered into negotiations with Universal Pictures to direct the seventh installment of \"The Fast and the Furious\" action franchise after Justin Lin, who directed the previous four sequels, confirmed that he would not continue as director in January 2013. Wan was part of a directorial shortlist alongside Jeff Wadlow, Baltasar Kormákur and Harald Zwart.\n\nA final confirmation that Wan would direct was revealed in April 2013, with Lin being quoted: \"It's time for me to move on to other things and I'm thrilled that Universal and Neal have selected James Wan to lead the franchise into its new chapter.\" The film, \"Furious 7\", was released in April 2015. It became the most successful film in terms of box office revenues and critics reviews in the \"Fast and Furious\" franchise.\n\nOn 20 October 2014, Gary Maddox of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" announced that Wan had agreed to direct \"The Conjuring 2\" as part of a significant long-term deal with New Line Cinema. Head of New Line, Toby Emmerich, explained that Wan is the sole director that the studio signed a deal with, as New Line considers Wan to be \"a class of one\". The film was released on 10 June 2016, to high critical acclaim and commercial success.\n\nOn 21 October 2014, Wan had launched his own production company, Atomic Monster Productions, at New Line Cinema. With the company, he develops and produces budget films in the science fiction, horror, and comedy genres. The films produced by the label include \"The Conjuring 2\" and \"Lights Out\".\n\nWan also produced \"Demonic\", a Dimension Films horror movie that was scheduled for a December 2014 release, alongside Lee Clay. Wan conceived of the idea for the film, which was directed by Will Canon and features Maria Bello in the lead role. Max La Bella penned the script. The film was eventually released on VOD in August 2017.\n\nWan then produced \"Annabelle\", a spin-off of \"The Conjuring\" that served as a prequel to the 2013 film. The spin-off was profitable for film production company New Line, as it was made for a cost of $6.5 million and grossed over million on 3 October 2014. He also produced the prequel film \"\", which was released in 2017, another \"Conjuring\" spin-off horror film, \"The Nun\", which was released on 7 September 2018, and a sequel, \"Annabelle Comes Home\", which was released on 26 June 2019. Wan co-wrote the stories of \"The Nun\" and the third Annabelle film with Gary Dauberman.\n\nIn 2018, Wan directed the superhero film \"Aquaman\", which was released in early December in China, and in the US on 21 December, as part of the DC Extended Universe. The film grossed over $1.1 billion worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing DCEU film as well as the highest-grossing film based on a DC Comics character, internationally, surpassing \"The Dark Knight Rises\".\n\nIn 2019, Wan developed a television series based on the character Swamp Thing, for the DC Universe streaming service.\n\nIn June 2014, 20th Century Fox acquired the rights to Wan's graphic novel \"Malignant Man\". According to reports, Wan was to develop the concept with a view to directing and producing the film. As of the time of the announcement, comic book label BOOM! Studios is slated for a production role alongside co-producers Stephen Christy, Ross Richie and Adam Yoelin. In June 2016, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Brad Peyton will direct the film. In August 2017, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Rebecca Thomas had now signed on to direct, and the title of the project was confirmed to be \"Malignant\".\n\nOn 7 August 2015, it was reported that Wan had signed-on to produce New Line Cinema's \"Mortal Kombat\" reboot.\n\nIn February 2018, Wan was confirmed to be involved in the making of an animated adaptation of Stan Sakai's Usagi Yojimbo comic book series.\n\nIn March 2018, it was announced that Wan will produce the film adaptation of the slasher novel \"There's Someone Inside Your House\" by Stephanie Perkins under his Atomic Monster label, alongside Shawn Levy's 21 Laps Entertainment for Netflix. In the same month, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Wan and producers Roy Lee and Larry Sanitsky were developing a film adaptation of the Stephen King novel \"The Tommyknockers\" and shopping the package to studios. On 20 April 2018, Deadline reported that Universal had won the bidding war and acquired the feature film package. Wan will produce the film adaptation under his Atomic Monster label, with an eye to direct.\n\nIn December 2018, it was reported that Warner Brothers Pictures chairman Toby Emmerich had the studio developing a sequel to \"Aquaman\". Discussions of a follow-up film had begun during post-production, when Wan stated to \"TotalFilm\" that the first film purposefully left room for further stories. In January 2019, the sequel was officially confirmed to be in development, with the studio courting Wan to return as writer and director.\n\nIn February 2019, Warner Bros. announced that a \"horror-tinged\" spin-off of \"Aquaman\" called \"The Trench\" is in development. Wan will produce while Noah Gardner and Aidan Fitzgerald signed on to write the script.\n\nIn June 2019, the South Australian Government's budget included a huge boost to the South Australian Film Corporation, with the \"Mortal Kombat\" reboot, as the largest film production in the state's history, set to be a key recipient.\n\nIn July 2019, Wan has announced two products in development, a television adaptation of \"I Know What You Did Last Summer\" for Amazon Prime and the horror movie \"Malignant\", which he will direct, co-produce and co-write with Ingrid Bisu.\n\nOn 9 October 2019, it was announced that he will produce a television series based on the Italian horror comics series \"Dylan Dog\".\n\nIn March 2020, it's been reported than Wan is working with Universal Pictures to produce a modern remake of Frankenstein.\n\nIn 2009, a Whannel–Wan collaborative project, called \"X Ray\", was announced and was described as a new \"film noir/action project\", with producer Robbie Brenner also attached to the project; however, as of December 2012, no further developments were reported.\n\nIt was also announced that an adaptation of Scott O. Brown graphic novel \"Nightfall\" was to be Wan's next film after \"Death Sentence\". The plot involves the events that take place after a criminal is sent to a Texas prison run by vampires. However, nothing materialized and Wan lost the rights to the film.\n\nIn 2012, Disney was reported to be developing a remake of \"The Rocketeer\", and Wan was in talks about directing the film. However, no film ever came to fruition.\n\nWan was also at one point attached to the director role for a live action \"Robotech\" film for Sony, but was replaced by Andy Muschietti in July 2017.\n\nOn 22 June 2019, Wan became engaged to Romanian German actress Ingrid Bisu, making the announcement on his Instagram. They married in November 2019.\n\nShort films\nProducer only\nExecutive producer only\nThroughout his directorial career, Wan has cast certain actors repeatedly:\nThis is the technical team that has worked with Wan on several of his films:\nCritical, public and commercial reception to films James Wan has directed as of 8 February 2019:\n\n"}
{"id": "1880338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880338", "title": "The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin", "text": "The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin\n\nThe Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin is the traditional name for the unfinished record of his own life written by Benjamin Franklin from 1771 to 1790; however, Franklin himself appears to have called the work his \"Memoirs\". Although it had a tortuous publication history after Franklin's death, this work has become one of the most famous and influential examples of an autobiography ever written.\n\nFranklin's account of his life is divided into four parts, reflecting the different periods at which he wrote them. There are actual breaks in the narrative between the first three parts, but Part Three's narrative continues into Part Four without an authorial break.\n\nIn the \"Introduction\" of the 1916 publication of the \"Autobiography\", editor F. W. Pine wrote that Franklin's biography provided the \"most remarkable of all the remarkable histories of our self-made men\" with Franklin as the greatest exemplar.\n\nPart One of the \"Autobiography\" is addressed to Franklin's son William, at that time (1771) Royal Governor of New Jersey while in England at the estate of the Bishop of St Asaph in Twyford, Franklin, now 65 years old, begins by saying that it may be agreeable to his son to know some of the incidents of his father's life; so with a week's uninterrupted leisure, he is beginning to write them down for William. He starts with some anecdotes of his grandfather, uncles, father and mother. He deals with his childhood, his fondness for reading, and his service as an apprentice to his brother James Franklin, a Boston printer and the publisher of the \"New-England Courant\". After improving his writing skills through study of the \"Spectator\" by Joseph Addison and Sir Richard Steele, he writes an anonymous paper and slips it under the door of the printing house by night. Not knowing its author, James and his friends praise the paper and it is published in the \"Courant\", which encourages Ben to produce more essays (the \"Silence Dogood\" essays) which are also published. When Ben reveals his authorship, James is angered, thinking the recognition of his papers will make Ben too vain. James and Ben have frequent disputes and Ben seeks for a way to escape from working under James.\n\nEventually James gets in trouble with the colonial assembly, which jails him for a short time and then forbids him to continue publishing his paper. James and his friends come up with the stratagem that the \"Courant\" should hereafter be published under the name of Benjamin Franklin, although James will still actually be in control. James signs a discharge of Ben's apprenticeship papers but writes up new private indenture papers for Ben to sign which will secure Ben's service for the remainder of the agreed time. But when a fresh disagreement arises between the brothers, Ben chooses to leave James, correctly judging that James will not dare to produce the secret indenture papers. (\"It was not fair in me to take this Advantage\", Franklin comments, \"and this I therefore reckon one of the first Errata of my life\".) James does, however, make it impossible for Ben to get work anywhere else in Boston. Sneaking onto a ship without his father's or brother's knowledge, Ben heads for New York City, but the printer William Bradford is unable to employ him; however, he tells Ben that his son Andrew, a Philadelphia printer, may be able to use him since one of his son's principal employees had just died.\n\nBy the time Ben reaches Philadelphia, Andrew Bradford has already replaced his employee, but refers Ben to Samuel Keimer, another printer in the city, who is able to give him work. The Governor, Sir William Keith, takes notice of Franklin and offers to set him up in business for himself. On Keith's recommendation, Franklin goes to London for printing supplies, but when he arrives, he finds that Keith has not written the promised letter of recommendation for him, and that \"no one who knew him had the smallest Dependence on him\". Franklin finds work in London until an opportunity arises of returning to Philadelphia as an assistant to Thomas Denham, a Quaker merchant; but when Denham takes ill and dies, he returns to manage Keimer's shop. Keimer soon comes to feel that Franklin's wages are too high and provokes a quarrel which causes the latter to quit. At this point a fellow employee, Hugh Meredith, suggests that Franklin and he set up a partnership to start a printing shop of their own; this is subsidized by funds from Meredith's father, though most of the work is done by Franklin as Meredith is not much of a press worker and is given to drinking.\n\nThey establish their business, and plan to start a newspaper, but when Keimer hears of this plan, he rushes out a paper of his own, the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\". This publication limps along for three quarters of a year before Franklin buys the paper from Keimer and makes it \"extremely profitable\". (The \"Saturday Evening Post\" traces its lineage to Franklin's \"Pennsylvania Gazette\".) The partnership also receives an appointment as printer for the Pennsylvania assembly. When Hugh Meredith's father experiences financial setbacks and cannot continue backing the partnership, two friends separately offer to lend Franklin the money he needs to stay in business; the partnership amicably dissolves as Meredith goes to North Carolina, and Franklin takes from each friend half the needed sum, continuing his business in his own name. In 1730 he marries Deborah Read, and after this, with the help of the Junto, he draws up proposals for Library Company of Philadelphia. At this point Part One breaks off, with a memo in Franklin's writing noting that \"The Affairs of the Revolution occasion'd the Interruption\".\n\nThe second part begins with two letters Franklin received in the early 1780s while in Paris, encouraging him to continue the \"Autobiography,\" of which both correspondents have read Part One. (Although Franklin does not say so, there had been a breach with his son William after the writing of Part One, since the father had sided with the Revolutionaries and the son had remained loyal to the British Crown.)\nAt Passy, a suburb of Paris, Franklin begins Part Two in 1784, giving a more detailed account of his public library plan. He then discusses his \"bold and arduous Project of arriving at moral Perfection\", listing thirteen virtues he wishes to perfect in himself. He creates a book with columns for each day of the week, in which he marks with black spots his offenses against each virtue. Of these virtues, he notices that Order is the hardest for him to keep. He eventually realizes that perfection is not to be attained, but feels himself better and happier because of his attempt.\n\nBeginning in August 1788 when Franklin had returned to Philadelphia, the author says he will not be able to utilize his papers as much as he had expected, since many were lost in the recent Revolutionary War. He has, however, found and quotes a couple of his writings from the 1730s that survived. One is the \"Substance of an intended Creed\" consisting of what he then considered to be the \"Essentials\" of all religions. He had intended this as a basis for a projected sect but, Franklin says, did not pursue the project.\n\nIn 1732, Franklin first publishes his \"Poor Richard's Almanac\", which becomes very successful. He also continues his profitable newspaper. In 1734, a preacher named Rev. Samuel Hemphill arrives from County Tyrone Ireland; Franklin supports him and writes pamphlets on his behalf. However, someone finds out that Hemphill has been plagiarizing portions of his sermons from others, although Franklin rationalizes this by saying he would rather hear good sermons taken from others than poor sermons of the man's own composition.\n\nFranklin studies languages, reconciles with his brother James, and loses a four-year-old son to smallpox. Franklin's club, the Junto, grows and breaks up into subordinate clubs. Franklin becomes Clerk of the General Assembly in 1736 thus entering politics for the first time, and the following year becomes Comptroller to the Postmaster General, which makes it easier to get reports and fulfill subscriptions for his newspaper. He proposes improvements to the city' watch and fire prevention regulations.\n\nThe famed preacher George Whitefield arrives in 1739, and despite significant differences in their religious beliefs, Franklin assists Whitefield by printing his sermons and journals and lodging him in his house. As Franklin continues to succeed, he provides the capital for several of his workers to start printing houses of their own in other colonies. He makes further proposals for the public good, including some for the defense of Pennsylvania, which cause him to contend with the pacifist position of the Quakers.\n\nIn 1740 he invents the Franklin stove, refusing a patent on the device because it was for \"the good of the people\". He proposes an academy, which opens after money is raised by subscription for it and it expands so much that a new building has to be constructed for it. Franklin obtains other governmental positions (city councilman, alderman, burgess, justice of the peace) and helps negotiate a treaty with the Indians. After helping Dr. Thomas Bond establish a hospital, he helps pave the streets of Philadelphia and draws up a proposal for Dr. John Fothergill about doing the same in London. In 1753 Franklin becomes Deputy Postmaster General.\n\nThe next year, as war with the French is expected, representatives of the several colonies, including Franklin, meet with the Indians to discuss defense; Franklin at this time draws up a proposal for the union of the colonies, but it is not adopted. General Braddock arrives with two regiments, and Franklin helps him secure wagons and horses, but the general refuses to take Ben's warning about danger from hostile Indians during Braddock's planned march to Frontenac (now Kingston, Ontario). When Braddock's troops are subsequently attacked, the general is mortally wounded and his forces abandon their supplies and flee.\n\nA militia is formed on the basis of a proposal by Benjamin Franklin, and the governor asks him to take command of the northwestern frontier. With his son as aide de camp, Franklin heads for Gnadenhut, raising men for the militia and building forts. Returning to Philadelphia, he is chosen colonel of the regiment; his officers honor him by personally escorting him out of town. This attention offends the proprietor of the colony (Thomas Penn, son of William Penn) when someone writes an account of it in a letter to him, whereupon the proprietor complains to the government in England about Franklin.\n\nNow the \"Autobiography\" discusses \"the Rise and Progress of [Franklin's] Philosophical Reputation.\" He starts experiments with electricity and writes letters about them that are published in England as a book. Franklin's description of his experiments is translated into French, and Abbé Nollet, who is offended because this work calls into question his own theory of electricity, publishes his own book of letters attacking Franklin. Declining to respond on the grounds that anyone could duplicate and thus verify his experiments, Franklin sees another French author refute Nollet, and as Franklin's book is translated into other languages, its views are gradually accepted and Nollet's are discarded. Franklin is also voted an honorary member of the Royal Society.\n\nA new governor arrives, but disputes between the assembly and the governor continue. (Since the colonial governors are bound to fulfill the instructions issued by the colony's proprietor, there is a continuing struggle for power between the legislature and the governor and proprietor.) The assembly is on the verge of sending Franklin to England to petition the King against the governor and proprietor, but meanwhile Lord Loudoun arrives on behalf of the English government to mediate the differences. Franklin nevertheless goes to England accompanied by his son, after stopping at New York and making an unsuccessful attempt to be recompensed by Loudoun for his outlay of funds during his militia service. They arrive in England on July 27, 1757.\n\nWritten sometime between November 1789 and Franklin's death on April 17, 1790, this section is very brief. After Franklin and his son arrive in London, the former is counselled by Dr. Fothergill on the best way to advocate his cause on behalf of the colonies. Franklin visits Lord Grenville, president of the King's Privy Council, who asserts that the king is the legislator of the colonies. Franklin then meets the proprietaries (the switch to the plural is Franklin's, so apparently others besides Thomas Penn are involved). But the respective sides are far from any kind of agreement. The proprietaries ask Franklin to write a summary of the colonists' complaints; when he does so, their solicitor for reasons of personal enmity delays a response. Over a year later, the proprietaries finally respond to the assembly, regarding the summary to be a \"flimsy Justification of their Conduct.\" During this delay the assembly has prevailed on the governor to pass a taxation act, and Franklin defends the act in English court so that it can receive royal assent. While the assembly thanks Franklin, the proprietaries, enraged at the governor, turn him out and threaten legal action against him; in the last sentence, Franklin tells us the governor \"despis'd the Threats, and they were never put in Execution\".\n\nThe \"Autobiography\" remained unpublished during Franklin's lifetime. In 1791, the first edition appeared, in French rather than English, as \"Mémoires de la vie privée de Benjamin Franklin,\" published in Paris. This translation of Part One only was based on a flawed transcript made of Franklin's manuscript before he had revised it. This French translation was then retranslated into English in two London publications of 1793, and one of the London editions served as a basis for a retranslation into French in 1798 in an edition which also included a fragment of Part Two.\n\nThe first three parts of the \"Autobiography\" were first published together (in English) by Franklin's grandson, William Temple Franklin, in London in 1818, in Volume 1 of \"Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin.\" W. T. Franklin did not include Part Four because he had previously traded away the original hand-written holograph of the \"Autobiography\" for a copy that contained only the first three parts. Furthermore, he felt free to make unauthoritative stylistic revisions to his grandfather's autobiography, and on occasion followed the translated and retranslated versions mentioned above rather than Ben Franklin's original text.\n\nW. T. Franklin's text was the standard version of the \"Autobiography\" for half a century, until John Bigelow purchased the original manuscript in France and in 1868 published the most reliable text that had yet appeared, including the first English publication of Part Four. In the 20th century, important editions by Max Ferrand and the staff of the Huntington Library in San Marino, California (\"Benjamin Franklin's Memoirs: Parallel Text Edition,\" 1949) and by Leonard W. Labaree (1964, as part of the Yale University Press edition of \"The Papers of Benjamin Franklin\") improved on Bigelow's accuracy. In 1981, J. A. Leo Lemay and P.M. Zall produced \"The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin: A Genetic Text,\" attempting to show all revisions and cancellations in the holograph manuscript. This, the most accurate edition of all so far published, served as a basis for \"Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography: A Norton Critical Edition\" and for the text of this autobiography printed in the Library of America's edition of Franklin's \"Writings.\"\n\n\"The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin\" also became the first full-length audiobook in history, which was voiced by actor Michael Rye and released in 1969.\n\nIn Frank Woodworth Pine's introduction of the 1916 publication published by Henry Holt and Company, Pine wrote that Franklin's biography provided the \"most remarkable of all the remarkable histories of our self-made men\" with Franklin as the greatest exemplar of the \"self-made man\".\n\nFranklin's \"Autobiography\" has received widespread praise, both for its historical value as a record of an important early American and for its literary style. It is often considered the first American book to be taken seriously by Europeans as literature. William Dean Howells in 1905 asserted that \"Franklin's is one of the greatest autobiographies in literature, and towers over other autobiographies as Franklin towered over other men.\" By the 1860s, use of the Autobiography and its depiction of Franklin's industry and relentless self-improvement had become widespread as an instructive model for youth. So much so that Mark Twain wrote an essay humorously castigating Franklin for having \"brought affliction to millions of boys since, whose fathers had read Franklin's pernicious biography\". D. H. Lawrence wrote a notable invective against the \"middle-sized, sturdy, snuff-coloured Doctor Franklin\" in 1923, finding considerable fault with Franklin's attempt at crafting precepts of virtue and at perfecting himself.\n\nNevertheless, responses to \"The Autobiography\" have generally been more positive than Twain's or Lawrence's, with most readers recognizing it as a classic of literature and relating to the narrative voice of the author. In this work, Franklin's \"persona\" comes alive and presents a man whose greatness does not keep him from being down-to-earth and approachable, who faces up to mistakes and blunders (\"errata\") he has committed in life, and who presents personal success as something within the reach of anyone willing to work hard enough for it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880339", "title": "Caribbean Blue", "text": "Caribbean Blue\n\n\"Caribbean Blue\" is a song by Irish musician Enya originally released as the second track on her 1991 album \"Shepherd Moons\".The song follows a waltz time signature, and mentions the Anemoi (Ancient Greek wind gods): Boreas, Afer Ventus (Africus), Eurus, and Zephyrus.\n\nWhen released, \"Caribbean Blue\" reached number eight on the Irish Singles Chart and number 13 on the UK Singles Chart. In the United States, it reached number 79 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number three on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Tracks chart—her highest-ranking song on the latter listing. The music video for the song features visual imagery based on the paintings of Maxfield Parrish, and was an early appearance for British TV-personality Martine McCutcheon.\n\n\"Billboard\" described the song as \"dreamy and evocative\" and \"multilayered and intricate\". They noted further that \"rich tapestry of sound lulls the listener with the promise of complex musical textures. Enya's understated vocals swell into effective wavelike crescendos that ebb and flow with the picturesque melody.\" \"Music & Media\" wrote that \"it's as dreamy as her 1988 global hit Orinoco Flow, but more dressed with instruments.\" \"People Magazine\" noted that \"the Irish singer's angelic vocals lift this elegant and avant-garde waltz heavenward.\"\n"}
{"id": "1880342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880342", "title": "William Cameron Menzies", "text": "William Cameron Menzies\n\nWilliam Cameron Menzies (July 29, 1896 – March 5, 1957) was an American film production designer (a job title he invented) and art director as well as a film director and producer during a career spanning five decades. He earned acclaim for his work in silent film, and later pioneered the use of color in film for dramatic effect.\n\nMenzies was born in New Haven, Connecticut to Scots immigrant parents, Charles A. and Helen originally from Aberfeldy, Scotland. He studied at Yale and the University of Edinburgh, and after serving in the United States Army during World War I he attended the Art Students League of New York.\n\nMenzies joined Famous Players-Lasky, later to evolve into Paramount Pictures, working in special effects and design. He quickly established himself in Hollywood with his elaborate settings for \"Robin Hood\" (1922), \"The Thief of Bagdad\" (1924), \"The Bat\" (1926), \"The Dove\" (1927), \"Sadie Thompson\" (1928), and \"Tempest\" (1928). In 1929, Menzies formed a partnership with producer Joseph M. Schenck to create a series of early sound short films visualizing great works of music, including a 10-minute version of Dukas's \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice,\" and created the production design and special effects for Schenck's feature film \"The Lottery Bride\" (1930).\n\nMenzies's work on \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\" (1938) prompted David O. Selznick to hire him for \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939). Selznick's faith in Menzies was so great that he sent a memorandum to everyone at Selznick International Pictures who was involved in the production reminding them that \"Menzies is the final word\" on everything related to Technicolor, scenic design, set decoration, and the overall look of the production.\n\n\"Production designer\" (which is sometimes used interchangeably with \"art director\") was coined specifically for Menzies, to refer to his being the final word on the overall look of the production; it was intended to describe his ability to translate Selznick's ideas to drawings and paintings from which he and his fellow directors worked.\n\nMenzies was the director of the burning of Atlanta sequence in Gone with the Wind. He also re-shot the Salvador Dalí dream sequence of Alfred Hitchcock's \"Spellbound\" (1945).\n\nIn addition, Menzies directed dramas and fantasy films. He made two science-fiction films: \"Things to Come\" (1936), based on H.G. Wells' work for producer Alexander Korda which predicted war and technical advancement; and \"Invaders from Mars\" (1953), which mirrored many fears about aliens and outside threats to humanity in the 1950s.\n\nShortly after completing his work as an associate producer on \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (1956), Menzies died of cancer. He was interred in the Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery in Glendale, California.\n\nAt the first Academy Awards, held on May 16, 1929, Menzies won for Best Art Direction for \"The Dove\" and \"Tempest\". The following year he was nominated in the same categories for his work on \"Bulldog Drummond\", \"Alibi\", and \"The Awakening\", but lost to Cedric Gibbons.\n\nAt the 12th Academy Awards held on February 29, 1940, Menzies won an Academy Honorary Award \"for outstanding achievement in the use of color for the enhancement of dramatic mood\" in the production of \"Gone With the Wind\".\n\nIn 2005, Menzies was in the first group of art directors and production designers inducted into the Art Directors Guild Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\nIn October 2009, Alpha Video released the public domain collection \"The Fantastic World of William Cameron Menzies\" on DVD, which included four early experimental films created by Menzies and Joseph M. Schenck, shorts that visualize great works of classical music:\n\nAccording to Dave Kehr, \"The Wizard's Apprentice\" \"clearly influenced Disney's version in \"Fantasia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880345", "title": "How Can I Keep from Singing?", "text": "How Can I Keep from Singing?\n\n\"How Can I Keep From Singing?\" (also known by its incipit \"My Life Flows On in Endless Song\") is a Christian hymn with music written by American Baptist minister Robert Wadsworth Lowry. The song is frequently, though erroneously, cited as a traditional Quaker or Shaker hymn. The original composition has now entered into the public domain, and appears in several hymnals and song collections, both in its original form and with a revised text. Though it was not originally a Quaker hymn, twentieth-century Quakers adopted it as their own and use it widely today.\n\nThe first known publication of the words was on August 7, 1868, in \"The New York Observer\", Titled \"Always Rejoicing\", and, attributed to \"Pauline T.\", the text reads:\n\nThese are the words as published by Robert Lowry in the 1869 song book, \"Bright Jewels for the Sunday School\". Here Lowry claims credit for the music, an iambic 87 87 tune with an 87 87 refrain, but gives no indication as to who wrote the words. These words were also published in a British periodical in 1869, \"The Christian Pioneer\", but no author is indicated. Lewis Hartsough, citing \"Bright Jewels\" as source of the lyrics and crediting Lowry for the tune, included \"How Can I Keep from Singing?\" in the 1872 edition of the \"Revivalist\". Ira D. Sankey published his own setting of the words in \"Gospel Hymns, No. 3\" (1878), writing that the words were anonymous. In 1888, Henry S. Burrage listed this hymn as one of those for which Lowry had written the music, but not the lyrics.\n\nDoris Plenn learned the original hymn from her grandmother, who reportedly believed that it dated from the early days of the Quaker movement. Plenn contributed the following verse around 1950, and it was taken up by Pete Seeger and other folk revivalists:\n\nDuring the 20th century, this hymn was not widely used in congregational worship. Diehl's index to a large number of hymnals from 1900 to 1966 indicates that only one hymnal included it: the 1941 edition of \"The Church Hymnal\" of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, titled \"My Life Flows On\" (hymn no. 265). It was also published in the earlier 1908 Seventh-day Adventist hymnal, \"Christ In Song\", under the title \"How Can I Keep From Singing?\" (hymn no. 331). The United Methodist Church published it in its 2000 hymnal supplement, \"The Faith We Sing\" (hymn no. 2212), giving credit for the lyrics as well as the tune to Robert Lowry. \"The Faith We Sing\" version changes some of the lyrics and punctuation from the 1868 version. It was also included in the Unitarian Universalist hymnal, printed in 1993 and following.\n\nPete Seeger learned a version of this song from Doris Plenn, a family friend, who had it from her North Carolina family. His version made this song fairly well known in the folk revival of the 1960s. Seeger's version omits or modifies much of the Christian wording of the original, and adds Plenn's verse above. The reference in the added verse intended by Seeger and by Plenn—both active in left-wing causes—is to 'witch hunts' of the House Un-American Activities Committee. (Seeger himself was sentenced to a year in jail in 1955 as a result of his testimony before the Committee, which he did not serve due to a technicality.) Most folk singers have followed Seeger's version.\n\nIn his radio singing debut, actor Martin Sheen performed this song (using the Plenn–Seeger lyrics) on \"A Prairie Home Companion\" in September 2007.\n\nThe song has often been attributed to \"early\" Quakers, but Quakers did not permit congregational singing in worship until after the American Civil War (and many still do not have music regularly). But learning it in social activist circles of the fifties and hearing Seeger's (erroneous) attribution endeared the song to many contemporary Quakers, who have adopted it as a sort of anthem. It was published in the Quaker songbook \"Songs of the Spirit\", and the original words, with Plenn's verse, were included in the much more ambitious Quaker hymnal project, \"Worship in Song: A Friends Hymnal\" in 1996.\n\nThe song received new prominence in 1991 when Irish musician Enya released a recording of the hymn on her album \"Shepherd Moons\". Enya's version follows Pete Seeger's replacement of some more overtly Christian lines, for example: \"What tho' my joys and comforts die?\nThe Lord my Saviour liveth\" became \"What tho' the tempest 'round me roars, I hear the truth it liveth.\"\n\nEnya and her record company were sued for copyright infringement by Sanga Music, Inc. for recording the song because she had mistakenly credited this track as a \"traditional Shaker hymn\", thus assumed it as public domain. Pete Seeger had helped make the song fairly well known in the 1950s by publishing it with Doris Plenn's additional third verse in his folk music magazine Sing Out! (Vol. 7, No 1. 1957), recording it, and mistakenly credited it as a \"traditional Quaker hymn\" without copyrighting Plenn's verse, thus presenting the entire song as \"public domain\". It was again published by Sanga Music, Inc. in 1964. Seeger had presented the new verse as being public domain and Plenn had only wanted the song to be preserved rather than seeking to make a profit from it, so the court decided that Enya could use the verse without paying royalties.\n\nThe song was also released as a single in November of the same year, with \"Oíche Chiún\" and \"'S Fágaim Mo Bhaile\" appearing as additional songs.\n\nThe videoclip featured Enya singing in a church in the Gaoth Dobhair countryside, while also including archive footage of political figures such as Nelson Mandela or Boris Yeltsin among others, and references to the Gulf War and famine. The line about tyrants trembling showed Gennady Yanayev, leader of the 1991 August Coup, in a press conference with visibly trembling hands—apparently toward the end when the coup was unraveling.\n\nCharts\n\n"}
{"id": "1880346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880346", "title": "Eureptilia", "text": "Eureptilia\n\nEureptilia (\"true reptiles\") is one of the two major clades of the Sauropsida, the other being Parareptilia. Eureptilia includes not only all Diapsids, but also a number of primitive Permo-Carboniferous forms previously classified under the Anapsida, in the old (no longer recognised) order \"Cotylosauria\".\n\nPrimitive were all small, superficially lizard-like forms, that probably scurried through the Paleozoic undergrowth in search of insects. The diapsids are the only eureptilian clade to continue beyond the Permian Period. Eureptilia is characterized by the skull having greatly reduced supraoccipital, tabular, and supratemporal bones that are no longer in contact with the postorbital.\n\nEureptilia was defined as a stem-based clade, specifically, the most inclusive clade containing \"Captorhinus aguti\" and \"Petrolacosaurus kansensis\" but not \"Procolophon trigoniceps\", by Tsuji and Müller (2009). The cladogram here was modified after Muller and Reisz (2006):\n\n"}
{"id": "1880353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880353", "title": "The Celts (TV series)", "text": "The Celts (TV series)\n\nThe Celts: Rich Traditions and Ancient Myths is a 1987 documentary series that examines the origins, growth, and influence of Celtic culture in Great Britain and throughout Europe.\n\nThe series was directed by David Richardson, written and presented by Frank Delaney, produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation, and broadcast on BBC Two. The series was released on DVD in Europe and North America in 2004. Delaney also wrote a six-chapter companion book, extended with four tales from Irish mythology.\n\n\n\nThe series introduced the music of Irish singer Enya to a wider audience. Enya, formerly a member of the Celtic music group Clannad, was commissioned by David Richardson to compose the score for the series. Each episode of the series begins with the series' theme song, \"The Celts\". Two episodes include music videos of Enya performing the songs \"I Want Tomorrow\" and \"Aldebaran\". The DVD includes an interview and musical performances by Enya.\n\nThe soundtrack album for \"The Celts\" was first released in 1987 by BBC Records under the title \"Enya\". It reached No.69 in the UK albums chart. It was later reissued in North America by Atlantic Records. In 1992, Reprise Records, the licensees of Enya's later popular recordings such as \"Orinoco Flow\", obtained the rights to the \"Enya\" album and it was remastered and reissued under the title \"The Celts\". This time the album reached No.10 in the UK. Also, Enya appeared in a new music video to promote the title song, and a CD-single of the theme song was released.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880355", "title": "The News (Portsmouth)", "text": "The News (Portsmouth)\n\nThe News is the only local paid-for newspaper in Portsmouth, England, and covers a wide area of south Hampshire. It is produced by Johnston Press, owners of Portsmouth Publishing & Printing, at their headquarters in North Harbour, Portsmouth, and printed in nearby Hilsea. Its official title is \"The News\", though it was formerly known as The Portsmouth Evening News and still popularly referred to as The Evening News despite being printed in the early hours of the morning.\n\n\"The News\" is printed Monday to Saturday. There was also a weekly sports paper, The Sports Mail, which followed the fortunes of local club Portsmouth F.C. and local sports news. A weekend magazine and an entertainment supplement called WOW247 (formerly The Guide) are also printed. Sales have declined following price rises and the rise of social media.\n\nLike many regional newspapers \"The News\"' circulation has plummeted in recent years, slumping by 15% in the last six months of 2018 to 13,902.\n\n\"The News\" began in the North East in 1873, when Samuel Storey MP founded \"The Echo\" in Sunderland. Together with six partners and an original investment of £3,500, Storey hoped to produce an evening paper that reflected his radical views.\n\nStorey was elected into Parliament as the mayor, where he met future business partner Andrew Carnegie, a Scottish born millionaire. The partners, along with businessman, Passmore Edwards, arrived in Portsmouth in 1883 with intentions of buying out the \"Hampshire Telegraph\" and starting a new evening newspaper, the \"Southern Standard\".\n\nBy this time, \"The Evening News\" had already been established in Portsmouth by Graham Niven, who served as the paper's editor, manager, reporter and distributor. Both Storey and Niven faced a problem when they realised there was no room for two evening papers in Portsmouth. Niven soon sold out to Storey, retaining one quarter share.\n\nStorey's original project, \"The Southern Standard\" only survived for eight issues. When the Storey-Carnegie syndicate broke up in 1885, Storey invested in various other papers expanding his newspaper company to West Sussex, Chichester and the Isle of Wight.\n\nIn 1903 Samuel Storey's son Frederick George took over from his father as the managing director of \"The Echo\". When Frederick died in 1924 it was his son, also named Samuel Storey born in 1896, who was to begin the third generation of the Storey family in control of the newspaper group. The original founder of the group died in 1925.\n\nDuring his 49 years as chairman of his grandfather's company, which had since become Portsmouth and Sunderland Newspapers Limited (P&SN), Lord Buckton guided the company through the technological advances of the 1950 and 1960s. Aided by his brother F.G.H Storey, P&SN explored the new processes of photo-composition and web-offset printing.\n\nThe final member of the Storey family to become chairman at the company was Sir Richard Storey, who stepped down in June 1998. Sir Stephen Waley-Cohen took over as chairman at P&SN until the company was sold to Johnston Press in July 1999. \"The News\" has since remained in the control of Johnston Press, whose slogan is \"Life is Local\".\n\nIn 2000 the paper launched the \"We can do it\" awards recognising \"unsung heroes\" in the community.\n\nOffices\nFor many years, the newspaper was based out of offices in a former slaughterhouse in Portsmouth's Stanhope Road. In 1969, \"The News\" moved from the centre of Portsmouth to a new location in Hilsea, under the supervision of Ted Galpin, a Director and general manager (South) of P&SN. Galpin was subsequently made an OBE for his services to the newspaper industry, an honour he dedicated to his staff. When Lord Buckton died in 1978 his son Richard (who inherited his father's baronetcy) assumed the role of chairman of the company.\n\nIn 1982 an £11 million plan to develop The News Centre was announced. This hoped to provide the latest equipment for editorial, marketing, production and administration departments.\n\nThe extension was opened in 1983 by Kenelm Storey, the son of the former chairman, who became the fifth generation of the family to be involved with the company. In the following years, southern editions of a number of national newspapers have been printed at the News Centre, using the time when the presses are not needed to print evening papers.\n\nIn April 2013, \"The News\" announced it would be closing its Hilsea headquarters and moving to new offices in Portsmouth's former IBM headquarters in North Harbour. The newspaper's newsroom, advertising, newspaper sales, finance, IT, and front counter staff moved to the new headquarters in June. However, the newspaper's printing press remains at the former site.\n"}
{"id": "1880362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880362", "title": "Punt gun", "text": "Punt gun\n\nA punt gun is a type of extremely large shotgun used in the 19th and early 20th centuries for shooting large numbers of waterfowl for commercial harvesting operations. These weapons are characteristically too large for an individual to fire from the shoulder or often carry by themselves, but unlike artillery pieces, punt guns are able to be aimed and fired by a single person from a mount. In this case, the mount is typically a small watercraft. Many early models appear similar to over-sized versions of shoulder weapons of the time with full-length wooden stocks with a normal-sized shoulder stock. Most later variations do away with the full-length stock—especially more modern models—and have mounting hardware fixed to the gun to allow them to be fitted to a pintle.\n\nPunt guns were usually custom-designed and varied widely, but could have bore diameters exceeding and fire over a pound (≈ 0.45 kg) of shot at a time. A single shot could kill over 50 waterfowl resting on the water's surface. They were too big to hold and the recoil was so large that they had to be mounted directly on punts used for hunting, hence their name. Hunters would manoeuvre their punts quietly into line and range of the flock using poles or oars to avoid startling them. Generally the gun was fixed to the punt; thus the hunter would manoeuvre the entire boat in order to aim the gun. The guns were sufficiently powerful, and the punts themselves sufficiently small, that firing the gun often propelled the punt backwards several inches or more. To improve efficiency, hunters could work in fleets of up to around ten punts.\n\nPunt guns are usually muzzle loaded with a lock similar to muskets or rifles of the day including flintlock, percussion, and more modern types. Holland and Holland offered models using breech loading and standardized shotgun shells in both brass and combined paper and brass base in the 1890s via custom order. Double-barreled models also existed, typically in the smaller 8-gauge loadings. In most cases, these guns were work-guns with little additional adornment in surviving examples. Many appearing in modern auctions have signs of being repaired or upgraded in some fashion, such as upgrading a flintlock action to a more modern percussion system or refinishing by rebluing the piece.\nIn the United States, this practice depleted stocks of wild waterfowl and by the 1860s most states had banned the practice. The Lacey Act of 1900 banned the transport of wild game across state lines, and the practice of market hunting was outlawed by a series of federal laws in 1918. While use and possession of punt guns is still legal in the United States, Federal regulations make them illegal for usage in migratory waterfowl hunting.\n\nAccording to Eunan O'Halpin's book \"Defending Ireland,\" a Local Defence Force unit of the Irish Army in Co. Louth was equipped in 1941 with a number of flintlock weapons that had been gifted to them. Among these guns was a weapon described as being a \"nine-foot [long] blunderbuss\", which could be more commonly understood to be a punt gun.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a 1995 survey showed fewer than 50 active punt guns still in use. The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 limits punt guns in England and Wales, and in Scotland, to a bore diameter of (1 1/8-pounder). Since Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee in 1897 there has been a punt gun salute every Coronation and Jubilee over Cowbit Wash in Cowbit, Lincolnshire, England. During the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II, 21 punt gun rounds were fired separately, followed by the guns all being fired simultaneously.\n\nThe 2004 film \"\" featured a punt gun used in combat. This punt gun was custom-built for the film and was long, weighed , and had a bore (classified as \"A\" gauge by the Gun Barrel Proof Act of 1868 in Schedule B). The weapon was not actually of this bore, instead being a large prop shell concealing a 12 gauge shotgun firing triple-loaded black powder blanks, with the barrel sprayed with WD-40 water displacer to produce a large smoke cloud on firing.\n\nIn his novel \"Chesapeake\", author James A. Michener details the historical use of a punt gun, called \"The Twombly,\" to hunt geese and ducks by the watermen of the Chesapeake Bay.\n\nDesmond Bagley's 1973 thriller \"The Tightrope Men\" features a percussion-fired punt gun. Although set in northern Finland, punt guns were never used in the country.\n\nIn the novel Outer Dark, by Cormac McCarthy, the use of a four-gauge punt gun for hunting ducks is described.\n\nIn the Discworld novel Pyramids, mention is made of a \"Puntbow\", essentially a combination of this weapon and a crossbow.\n\n\nGuns of similar size or application:\n\n"}
{"id": "1880365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880365", "title": "Anywhere Is", "text": "Anywhere Is\n\n\"Anywhere Is\" is a song by Irish singer Enya, released as the lead single from her fourth studio album, \"The Memory of Trees\" on 20 November 1995. The lyrics of the song are in English. It peaked at number 7 on the UK Singles Chart and became a Top 10 hit also in Austria, Iceland, Ireland and United Kingdom. On the Eurochart Hot 100, the song peaked at number 36.\n\n\"Anywhere Is\" is developed from a staccato line that Enya has described had a \"march feel\". Initially it was a track that she and producer Nicky Ryan wanted to reject for the album \"The Memory of Trees\". But it was developed further after Rob Dickins, then chairman of Warner Music UK who had signed Enya, was invited to Ireland in August 1995 to listen to the album, roughly one year-and-a-half into the recording process. It was only its backing tracks that had been put down, but Dickins sensed the song had the makings of a hit single and encouraged them to complete it; it was the final track of the new album to be worked on. Enya's melody for the song inspired Roma Ryan to write lyrics about, as \"Billboard\" magazine put it, \"the search for the temporal heaven all cultures call 'home'\", a subject that Enya felt was important as she only writes and rehearses her songs in Ireland. Dickins received a dedication on the album's sleeve in Gaelic.\n\nAllMusic editor Rick Anderson said that Enya \"has a truly lovely voice\", and \"there's no point trying to resist the incantatory power of \"Anywhere Is\"\". Larry Flick from \"Billboard\" called the song \"an exhilarating uptempo pop waltz that will turn any car, den, or front stoop into an otherworldly tabernacle of sound.\" He complimented Enya for her \"remarkable ability to inspire listeners is undiminished on this richly layered feast of melody-a throbbing secular hymn about life's search for fulfillment.\" \"Crawley News\" wrote that the song \"sounds fabulous\". Terje Carlsen from \"Fredriksstad Blad\" described it as \"something different\" from the other songs of the album. He also noted the \"staccato\" expression of the song. Dave Sholin from the \"Gavin Report\" commented that \"it's often easy to compare one artist to another, but Enya has developed a truly distinctive style. Those of us who became fans early on love to convert the unitiated, and this song is bound to bring many more into the flock. Count on another magnificent video to accompany this very commercial track.\" Michelle Boucher from \"The Observer\" complimented the song for having \"a nice rhythm\". Steven Johnson from \"The Record\" noted that it is a \"spirited melody\" that is the furthest away from her usual \"tried-and-true\" musical formula. \"Toledo Blade\" called it \"positively upbeat\" in their review of \"The Memory of Trees\".\n\nThe music video for \"Anywhere Is\" was directed by David Scheinmann. \n"}
{"id": "1880369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880369", "title": "Grosse Pointe North High School", "text": "Grosse Pointe North High School\n\nGrosse Pointe North High School is a public high school in Grosse Pointe Woods, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. North is a four-year comprehensive high school with an enrollment of around 1,400 and expected 2016 graduating class of 350. Classes are in session for 182 days per year and the school day is from 8:00 AM to 3:05 PM.\n\nThe principal is Kate Murray; she won the 2015 Educators Voice Award. The assistant principals are Katy Vernier, Michelle Davis, and Geoffrey Harris Young. Davis is also the school's athletic director.\n\nNorth consistently ranks among the nation's best high schools.\nThe school opened in 1968 after Grosse Pointe High School was split into two schools, and Grosse Pointe North took the northern side of Grosse Pointe's students and Northeastern Harper Woods' students. It is a member of the Grosse Pointe Public School System.\n\nThe school serves the following communities: all of Grosse Pointe Woods, the GPPSS section of Harper Woods, a small northwest section of Grosse Pointe Farms, and the Wayne County section of Grosse Pointe Shores.\n\nFour elementary schools, Ferry, Mason, Monteith, and Poupard, feed into GPNHS. All of the attendance boundary of Parcells Middle School and a section of the boundary of Brownell Middle School coincides with that of GPNHS.\n\nBoys' sports include: baseball, basketball, crew, cross country, football, golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, sailing, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, and wrestling. Girls sports include: basketball, cheerleading, crew, cross country, dance team, field hockey, golf, gymnastics, ice hockey, lacrosse, sailing, soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, and volleyball. Grosse Pointe North has won numerous state championship titles: Baseball (1980, 2006), Girls' Basketball (2008), Boys' Cross Country (1973, 1975, 1976, 1982), Boys' Hockey (2001, 2002), Girls' Lacrosse (1999) and Girls' Swimming & Diving (1999).\n\nGrosse Pointe North's Radio Astronomy Team, the \"RATz\", under Ardis Herrold, are credited as being the first high school group to build its own radio telescope from scratch in the United States.\n\nThe Quiz Bowl team won the Class A Michigan High School State Championship in 2010 and participates in many NAQT tournaments. The team has attended the NAQT National High School Championship tournament (HSNCT).\n\n"}
{"id": "1880371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880371", "title": "Only If...", "text": "Only If...\n\n\"Only If...\" is a song by the Irish artist Enya. It was released along with her first greatest hits compilation \"Paint the Sky with Stars\" on 3 November 1997. It charted in several countries and its video was noted for its creative direction. Enya promoted the song with interviews and performances on \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\", \"Late Show with David Letterman\" and Royal Variety Performance.\n"}
{"id": "1880381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880381", "title": "Horatio Thomas Austin", "text": "Horatio Thomas Austin\n\nSir Horatio Thomas Austin (10 March 1800 – 16 November 1865) was a British Royal Navy officer and explorer.\n\nAustin was born in England on 18 March 1800, the son of an official in the Chatham Dockyard. In 1828, was dispatched on a scientific expedition in the Pacific Ocean under the command of Captain Henry Foster, with Austin as his first lieutenant. Foster explored the South Atlantic, and especially the South Shetland Islands. \n\nFoster drowned in 1831, in the Chagres River in Panama. After Foster's loss, the ship's command fell to Austin. On the expedition, the ship circumnavigated along the Southern Hemisphere and visited the River Plate, Isla de los Estados and South Georgia, before returning to Falmouth in 1830.\n\nFollowing the 1849 failure of Sir James Clark Ross's attempt to locate Franklin's lost expedition, Austin led an expedition in 1850 that also attempted to find the missing explorers. George F. McDougall was second master on board .\n\nAlthough the expedition located only traces of Franklin's presence, Austin is credited with organising successful sledging expeditions along the coasts of several North American Arctic islands, including the island of Bathurst, Byam Martin, Melville, and Prince of Wales.\n\nBetween October 1850 and March 1851, members of the \"Resolute\" crew under Austin published at least five editions of a handwritten newspaper, \"The Illustrated Arctic News\", during the wintering of the \"Resolute\" in what they identified as Barrow Strait. Upon the return of the \"Resolute\" to home port in England, the manuscript paper was printed in London in 1852. Austin became admiral superintendent at Malta Dockyard in 1863, and died in November 1865.\n\nAustin was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in 1840, and was promoted to Knight Commander (KCB) in March 1865 just months before his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880385", "title": "Scarborough Bluffs", "text": "Scarborough Bluffs\n\nThe Scarborough Bluffs, also known as The Bluffs, is an escarpment in the Scarborough district of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. There are nine parks along the bluffs, with Bluffers Park being the only one with a beach. Forming much of the eastern portion of Toronto's waterfront, the Scarborough Bluffs stands above the shoreline of Lake Ontario. At its highest point, the escarpment rises above the coastline and spans a length of .\n\nThe French gave the name \"Les grands Ecores\", or tall points on the shore, to the cliffs. In the 1788 Plan of Toronto by Alexander Aitken, the bluffs were simply known as the High Lands. They became known as the Scarborough Highlands in 1793 named after Scarborough, North Yorkshire. This name was chosen by Elizabeth Simcoe, who was the wife of the first lieutenant governor of Upper Canada, John Graves Simcoe. The escarpment along Lake Ontario reminded Elizabeth Simcoe of the limestone cliffs in her hometown. In her diary, she wrote, \"The shore is extremely bold, and has the appearance of chalk cliffs, but I believe they are only white sand. They appeared so well that we talked of building a summer residence there and calling it Scarborough.\" The name was later given to the entire township in 1796. In time, the cliffs became known as the Bluffs. A stylized version of The Bluffs was incorporated into the design of the flag of the former city of Scarborough.\n\nThe Scarborough Bluffs formerly extended further west along the coastline of Lake Ontario towards the Toronto Harbour, but extensive areas along the western fringe were leveled by the use of explosives for the implementation of primarily industrial and some residential urban development. Even the existing formation has and continues to shrink considerably decade after decade due to consistent and dramatic erosion.\n\nThe Bluffs have become a community meeting place for people of all ages. It features various recreational hiking and walking trails, as well as picnic tables, fire pits, places to pitch a tent, parking lots, a restaurant, and a large marina with a boating club.\n\nThe Bluffs run from the foot of Victoria Park Avenue in the west to the mouth of Highland Creek in the east, reaching as high as — the equivalent of twenty-five storeys. However, the escarpment continues westward inland, running between Kingston Road and Queen Street East, pausing over the Don Valley, and continuing on the north side of Davenport Road. The escarpment forms part of the old shoreline of Glacial Lake Iroquois, formed after the last ice age, which left valuable geological records as the part of the escarpment by the lake eroded. The eroded alluvial deposits from the Bluffs then settled westward to form the Toronto Islands.\n\nThe Scarborough Bluffs have been eroding at a rapid rate since residences have been built along the lake bluff tops. The million-dollar views have been prime real estate since the 1940s. The desire for a beautiful lakeside view and an affluent lifestyle led to a real estate boom along the Bluffs—this resulted in a direct correlation of the accelerating rate of erosion. The eroding Bluffs have resulted in damaged private property and the need for public assets to be spent on repairs and corrective action. In summer 2008, chunks of the Bluffs had eroded to the point that one quarter of a cottage that the late actor and comedian Billy Van once owned, was left hanging on the cliff—the cottage was deemed a safety hazard by Toronto city officials as a result. To combat erosion, boulders acting as armour, rocks, and trees were placed at the base. However, to place these rocks and trees, a beach must be created to allow trucks to access the cliff base which would involve leveling parts of the Bluffs, such as the aforementioned Bluffer's Park. The Cathedral Bluffs, which is an impressive portion of the Bluffs, was the result of continued erosion. In 2017, the Toronto Region Conservation Authority created the Scarborough Waterfront Project which aims to revamp about 11 kilometres of Scarborough Bluff's shoreline which includes the expansion of the existing beach by approximately 60 metres into Lake Ontario between Bluffer's Park and Meadowcliffe.\n\nThe Scarborough Bluffs have been a sought out destination for photographers and visitors to trek through. However, due to erosion and flooding, this leads to dangerous conditions; according to the Toronto Region Conservation Authority, numerous people ignore warning signage. Areas that appear to be stable can collapse. \"In terms of the park areas or where people want to go right at the top of the Bluffs, it's completely safe as long as they stay on the appropriate side of the fence. It's when they go on the wrong side of the fence that it causes issue\". Currently, for those who ignore signage and enter restricted areas, fines of up to $5,000 will be handed out.\n\nA number of city parks are located along the bluffs from Victoria Park Avenue to Rouge River. Most are located on the top the bluffs, but some are located at the base along the shoreline with Lake Ontario.\n\nDevelopment of parkland began with the then Borough of Scarborough prior to 1960, while some remained in private hands. From 1960 to 1978 the parks were acquired by the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority which developed into today's current parks. Outside of the parks, many sections of the bluffs are on private property.\n\n\nThere are two registered non-profit community associations in the Scarborough Bluffs area\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880388", "title": "Boomtown Reno", "text": "Boomtown Reno\n\nBoomtown Reno is a hotel and casino located in Verdi, Nevada, just west of the Reno–Sparks metropolitan area. It is owned and operated by Edward A. St. John of St. John Properties. The hotel has 318 guest rooms and suites and the casino has a gaming area. The property originally began as a truck stop in the mid-1960s serving travelers on Interstate 80 and gradually expanded into a full hotel-casino resort. Boomtown is well known for its Famous Lobster Buffet.\n\nThe hotel is newly remodeled in contemporary motif and has full casino with slots, table games, sports book, poker and Keno. A Family Fun Center features games for the whole family, including a motion theater, bounce house, Ferris wheel, carousel and a 9-hole miniature golf course; there is a Mel's Diner located right next to it as well.\n\nPrevious owners of Boomtown Reno were businessman and former Reno mayor Bob Cashell of Cashell Enterprises (1968–1988), Boomtown, Inc. (1988–1997) and Pinnacle Entertainment, formerly known as Hollywood Park, Inc. (1997–2012)\n\nIn 2012, Pinnacle sold the property for $12.9 million to St. John Properties (a Maryland-based real estate firm) and M1 Gaming (the company of former Station Casinos executive Dean DiLullo). In 2014, M1 Gaming exited the property and St. John began the process of taking full ownership of Boomtown.\n\nThe Boomtown hotel became affiliated with Best Western in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880389", "title": "Only Time", "text": "Only Time\n\n\"Only Time\" is a song by Irish singer, songwriter and musician Enya, released in November 2000 as the lead single to her fifth studio album, \"A Day Without Rain\" (2000). The song reached number one in Canada, Germany, Poland and Switzerland, number two in Austria, and became Enya's only top-ten single as a solo artist in the United States, peaking at number ten on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nIn 2001, \"Only Time\" was released again as a remix. The track was remixed by the Swiss American Federation (S.A.F.) (Christian B. and Marc Dold) with a final remix by Enya's producer, Nicky Ryan. Enya donated the earnings from the sale of that single to the Uniform Firefighters Association's Widows' and Children's Fund to help the families of fire fighters in the aftermath of 9/11. The song was also featured in the soundtrack of the motion picture \"Sweet November\". Following the September 2001 attacks, sales of the album and its lead single, \"Only Time\", skyrocketed after it was used by several radio and television networks in their coverage and aftermath of the attacks. As a result, \"Only Time\" climbed to number ten on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart and number one on the adult contemporary chart.\n\nDuring the summer of 2001, NBC used the song in commercials to promote \"Friends\", which ended its season on a cliffhanger. NBC also used it as background during the death scene for character Bobby Caffey in the episode \"Unfinished Business\" (aired March 12, 2001) during the second season of \"Third Watch\". The exposure helped the song gain familiarity and increased radio play. As a result, the song became Enya's first top 40 radio hit in 12 years. The song appeared twice on the TV show \"Viva La Bam\" where it first appeared in the montage of Bam Margera destroying Don Vito's cars in \"Bamiature Golf\" and again in \"Where's Vito?\" during a retrospective for Bam's Hummer after it was thrown off the cliff by Vito. Enya performed the song at the 2001 World Music Awards.\n\nThe song's music video, which shows Enya performing the song in a spring, summer, fall and winter theme, was directed by Graham Fink and was also released in 2000. In 2020, to celebrate 20th anniversary of the recording, the video was remastered in 4K. This version was released in March 2020.\n\nIn 2002, the song received an ECHO Award for Best Single of the Year.\n\nOn November 13, 2013, the \"Epic Split\" advertisement was launched for the Volvo Trucks Volvo FM range and featured the song and Jean-Claude Van Damme. The success of the ad caused \"Only Time\" to re-enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at number 43, and the UK Singles Chart at number 95. Kraft Foods later used the song in advertisements showing parents relaxing while their kids eat Kraft Macaroni & Cheese.\n\nEnya performed \"Only Time\" several times, performances included \"Larry King Live\", \"Children in Need\", \"This Morning\", \"The View\", \"Happy Xmas Show\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", \"Live! with Regis and Kelly\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" and 2001 World Music Awards.\n\n2000 original release (single)\n\n2001 remix release (EP)\nPromotional 2001 release\n\n2004 reissue release\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880393", "title": "Wild Child (Enya song)", "text": "Wild Child (Enya song)\n\n\"Wild Child\" is a single by Irish singer-songwriter Enya. It was released in 4 December 2001 as the second and final single from \"A Day Without Rain\".\n\nIn Germany, Japan, and Korea, the single was published only on Compact Disc; in the United Kingdom, it was also published on cassette.\n\nEurodance music duo CJ Crew recorded an uptempo dance mix of the song, which appeared on the compilation album \"Dancemania Speed 10\" (2002).\n\nThe B-side \"Midnight Blue\" was later reworked and included as the title track on Enya's 2008 studio album, \"And Winter Came …\".\n\nEnya performed the song at the 2001 Japan Gold Disc Award, after received an award for Best International Pop Albums of the Year for \"A Day Without Rain\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880397", "title": "May It Be", "text": "May It Be\n\n\"May It Be\" is a song by Irish recording artist Enya. It was composed by Enya and Roma Ryan for Peter Jackson's 2001 film \"\". The song entered the German Singles Chart at number one in 2002 and was performed by Enya at the 74th Academy Awards. \"May It Be\" was acclaimed from music critics and received nominations for Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song, Academy Award for Best Original Song and Grammy Award nomination for Best Song Written for Visual Media.\n\nDirector Peter Jackson approached Enya (under the suggestion of Howard Shore), asking if she would be interested in writing a song for \"The Lord of the Rings\". Thrilled at the prospect, Enya headed to New Zealand to see the preliminary edits of the film.\n\nEnya worked on the song with Nicky Ryan, her producer, and Roma Ryan, her lyricist. Nicky produced Enya's vocals and arranged the music while Roma wrote the lyrics. They recorded the song through Enya's contract with Warner Music in the Ryans' Dublin studio, Aigle Studio.\nThe vocals were recorded in \"Aigle Studios\", Enya's Studio near Dublin and the orchestration was recorded in London, directed by Howard Shore and performed by the London Voices and London Philharmonic Orchestra. Compositionally, the piece is simple, featuring a backdrop of choir and strings. As Doug Adams commented, Enya's contributions \"coexist so neatly,\" with Shore's score, that \"neither Enya song is relegated to its own track.\"\n\nThe lyrics of this theme song include English words, as well as words in the fictional Elvish language, Quenya, created by J.R.R. Tolkien. While Enya wrote music, Roma Ryan studied the languages and wrote the lyrics in English and Quenya. There are two lines with phrases written in Quenya. The first, \"Mornië utúlië\", translates to \"Darkness has come.\" \"Mornië alantië\" translates as \"Darkness has fallen.\" Each line repeats twice in the song, with the remaining song lyrics written in English. They are intermingled with the Quenya lyrics, as in the second stanza; \"\"Mornië utúlië\", believe and you will find your way; \"Mornië alantië\", a promise lives within you now.\" Enya also performed another song '\"Aníron\" for \"The Lord of the Rings\", which is sung in another of Tolkien's Elvish languages, Sindarin.\n\n\"May It Be\" received universal acclaim from music critics. It was nominated for the 2002 Academy Award for Best Original Song, but lost to Randy Newman's \"If I Didn't Have You\" from \"Monsters, Inc.\", sung by John Goodman and Billy Crystal. It won the Las Vegas Film Critics Society Award for Best Song and the 2002 Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Song. It was also nominated for the 2002 Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song, but lost to \"Until\" from \"Kate & Leopold\". The song also received a 2003 Grammy Award nomination for Best Song Written for Visual Media.\n\nEnya performed her song at the Academy Awards on 24 March 2002. She was \"absolutely\" excited about the performance. For her it was the \"first time to be nominated, and to get to perform, it's just wonderful, absolutely wonderful.\"\n\nEnya's \"May It Be\" has been featured on various albums. On 20 November 2001 it was released on \"The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring\" soundtrack, along with composer Howard Shore's original score \"The Road Goes Ever On (Part 2)\". It also came out as a single in 2002 along with two other of Enya's songs; \"Isobella\" and \"The First of Autumn\". \"May It Be\" entered the German Singles Chart at number one. It was Enya's second consecutive single to do so, following her song \"Only Time\". In 2005, it was released as part of the compilation \"The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring: The Complete Recordings\". This time, the version of the song was identical as featured in the movie's ending titles. Enya also included the song on her 2009 album, \"The Very Best of Enya\".\n\nDirected by Peter Nydrle, Enya's 2002 music video for \"May It Be\" features clips from the film as well as Enya singing the song. The music video runs for 3 minutes and 32 seconds.\n\nMany other artists have covered the song since Enya's original recording. Tara Scammell did so on 2004 album \"Music from the Lord of the Rings Trilogy\" by the Prague Symphony Orchestra, which consists of songs from all three movies. Celtic Woman performed \"May It Be\" on their 2005 self-titled album. Lisa Kelly of Celtic Woman included it on her 2006 album, \"Lisa\". Hayley Westenra recorded it in 2005 on her second international album, \"Odyssey\". It was also covered in 2006 by Lex van Someren for \"Christmas Every Day\" and Angelis for their self-titled album. It was sung on Cecelia’s 2007 album, \"Amazing Grace\". Sofia Källgren featured it on her 2008 album, \"Cinema Paradiso\". Other artists who have covered it include Uruk-hai, Hayley Griffiths on Celtic Rose and Kiri Te Kanawa. It was performed on 14 January 2012 by Faroese artist Eivør Pálsdóttir as part of the celebration of Margrethe II's 40th anniversary as Queen of Denmark. Jackie Evancho covered \"May It Be\" on her 2017 album \"Two Hearts\". Voces8 covered \"May It Be\" in their album Enchanted Isle in 2018.\n\nAdditionally, \"May It Be\" was also sampled by Swiss DJ Dinka in his 2010 track \"The Celtic of Scotland\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1880400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880400", "title": "Kerrin Lee-Gartner", "text": "Kerrin Lee-Gartner\n\nKerrin Anne Lee-Gartner (born September 21, 1966) is a former World Cup alpine ski racer and Olympic gold medallist from Canada.\n\nBorn in Trail, British Columbia, she grew up in Rossland and raced as a youngster at Red Mountain. Lee-Gartner started skiing for the Canadian Women's Ski Team in 1982, but suffered a number of knee operations over the years including two complete reconstructions. She attained her first World Cup podium early in December 1990, then had five more top-six finishes early in the 1992 season entering the Winter Olympics in Albertville, France.\n\nOn the \"Roc de Fer\" course at Méribel, Lee-Gartner won the gold medal in the Olympic downhill. Only 0.06 seconds behind was silver medallist Hilary Lindh of the U.S., for a North American 1–2 finish. Through 2018, it remains the only victory in an Olympic downhill by a Canadian. She finished sixth in the Olympic super-G and had two more podiums after the Olympics, both in North America, to finish up the 1992 season.\n\nLee-Gartner's next season in 1993 was her best on the World Cup circuit, with two podiums and twelve top tens. She finished third in the downhill standings and ninth overall. At the World Championships in Japan, she was fourth in the super-G and ninth in the downhill.\n\nLeading up to the 1994 Winter Olympics, Lee-Gartner was admittedly affected by the death of her friend Ulrike Maier after a crash in a downhill race in late January. At the Olympics in Norway, she finished eighth in the super-G and 19th in the downhill, and retired from international competition a month later, at the end of the 1994 World Cup season.\n\nLee-Gartner is currently a television broadcaster with CBC Sports in Canada. She also assisted the BBC with coverage of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.\n\n\nDuring May 2018, Lee-Gartner was part of a group of four female athletes, including Cassie Campbell, Jen Kish and Fran Rider to publicly pledge their brain to a Canadian research centre. The posthumous donation shall be made to Toronto Western Hospital’s Canadian Concussion Centre to further research on the effect of trauma on women's brains.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880407", "title": "Rabbinical translations of Matthew", "text": "Rabbinical translations of Matthew\n\nThe rabbinical translations of Matthew are rabbinical versions of the Gospel of Matthew that are written in Hebrew; Shem Tob's Hebrew Gospel of Matthew, the Du Tillet Matthew, and the Münster Matthew, and which were used in polemical debate with Catholics.\n\nThese versions are to be distinguished from the Gospel of the Hebrews which was one or more works found in the Early Church, but surviving only as fragmentary quotations in Greek and Latin texts.\n\nSome scholars consider all the rabbinical versions to be translated from the Greek or Latin of the canonical Matthew, for the purpose of Jewish apologetics. This conclusion is not unanimous. Other scholars have provided linguistic and historic evidence of Shem Tov's Matthew coming from a much earlier Hebrew text that was later translated into Greek and other languages. Early Christian author Papias wrote around the year 100 that, \"Matthew composed his history in the Hebrew dialect, and everyone translated it as he was able\". \n\nQuotations from Hebrew translations of portions of various New Testament books - including the epistles of Paul - can be found in rabbinical treatises against Catholicism. These treatises multiplied wherever Jews lived in proximity to Christians - such as Spain before the expulsion of the Jews from Spain in 1492. \n\nJean Carmignac (Paris 1969, BNES 1978) identified fifty Hebrew translations of the Lord's Prayer from the 9th to the 18th centuries. Most scholars consider that the medieval Hebrew manuscripts are derived by translation from medieval Greek or Latin manuscripts, and therefore that it is extremely unlikely that any of the unique readings found in these medieval Hebrew manuscripts could be ancient.\n\nFour principal versions in rabbinical Hebrew of Matthew have survived or partially survived:\n\nThe Shem Tov Matthew (or Shem Tob's Matthew) consists of a complete text of Gospel of Matthew in the Hebrew language found interspersed among anti-Catholic commentary in the 12th volume of a polemical treatise \"The Touchstone\" (c.1380-85) by Shem Tov ben Isaac ben Shaprut (Ibn Shaprut), a Jewish physician living in Aragon, after whom the version is named. Shem Tov debated Cardinal Pedro de Luna (later Antipope Benedict XIII) on original sin and redemption in Pamplona, December 26, 1375, in the presence of bishops and learned theologians. Nine manuscripts of \"The Touchstone\" survive, though if an independent version of the text of Matthew used by Ibn Shaprut ever existed then it is lost. \n\nSpanish Jews of Ibn Shaprut's period were familiar with the New Testament in Latin. Jacob Ben Reuben in his \"Wars of the Lord\" translated Gilbert Crispin's \"Disputation of Jews and Christians\" from Latin into Hebrew, along with quotes from Matthew. Lasker (1998) remarks that \"By the fourteenth century, most likely every Iberian anti-Christian Jewish polemicist knew Latin.\" Moses ha-Kohen de Tordesillas made proficient use of Latin phrases. Profiat Duran (fl.1380-1420) had extensive knowledge of Latin Christian texts, and devoted a chapter of his \"Disgrace of the Gentiles\" (Klimat ha-goyim) to criticism of Jerome's Latin Vulgate. Hayyim ben Judah ibn Musa argued with Nicholas de Lyra in his \"Book of Shield and Spear\" (Sefer magen va-romah). Likewise converts to Christianity such as Abner of Burgos (Alphonso of Valladolid, ca. 1270-1347) continued to write polemical, theological, philosophical, and scientific works in Hebrew. \n\nShem Tov's \"The Touchstone\" (\"Eben = stone, bohan = test\") has never been translated into English or published. It follows the model of \"Milhamoth ha-Shem\" of Jacob Ben Reuben in use of Matthew but contains not just sections of Matthew as Jacob Ben Reuben, but the whole text of Matthew and parts of Mark. George Howard excised the text of Matthew from among Shem Tov's comments and published it separately as \"The Gospel of Matthew according to a primitive Hebrew text\" (1987), and then a revised second edition \"Hebrew Gospel of Matthew\" (1995).\n\nShem Tov's quotations of Matthew in \"The Touchstone\" are marked by Jewish thought, and are interspaced with the comments of the author. As a consequence several scholars feel it is difficult to determine which parts are Shem Tov's commentary, and which parts are the actual text of the source he was quoting. Many scholars view the text as a mediaeval translation from the Greek text of the Gospel of Matthew, as well as being the likely source of all later Hebrew versions of Matthew prior to the 20th century.\n\nWhere the Tetragrammaton occurs in Tanakh quotations, instead one finds a single Hebrew \"He\" (ה) except in one place where the word \"ha-shem\" (השם, the name) is spelled out. There are some interesting readings of Matthew in \"The Touchstone\".\n\nWhile the quotations in Shem Tov's \"The Touchstone\", which are interspersed in his own commentary, diverge from the canonical text of Matthew, the text of the \"Münster Matthew\" and the \"Du Tillet Matthew\" are significantly very close to it in many passages.\n\nThe Münster Matthew is a printed version of the Gospel of Matthew, written in Hebrew published by Sebastian Münster in 1537 and dedicated to King Henry VIII of England. It is disputed as to whether Münster‘s prefatory language refers to an actual manuscript that he used. Münster’s text closely resembles the \"Du Tillet Matthew\". Since the places where Münster altered the text are indeterminate, using the Münster text for textual criticism is problematic.\n\nThe Du Tillet Matthew is a version of the Gospel of Matthew, written in Hebrew, known as Heb.MSS.132, and residing in the National Library, Paris. The manuscript was obtained by Bishop Jean du Tillet from Italian Jews on a visit to Rome in 1553, and published in 1555, with editing by Jean Mercier (Hebraist) and addition of a Latin version, dedicated to cardinal Charles de Guise. \n\nWhile the text is less divergent from the Greek textual tradition than is the \"Shem Tov Matthew\", this version share some deviations in common with the \"Shem Tov Matthew\"; for example, the Tetragrammaton is replaced with a sign composed of three yodhs or dots enclosed in a semicircle. Jean Cinqarbres (Quinquarboreus), Hebrew professor of the College Royal also worked on the Du Tillet Matthew.\n\nRabbi Rahabi Ezekiel's \"Ha-sepher shel we-'angilu shel ha-Nosarim shel Yeshu\" [The book of the Gospel belonging to the followers of Jesus] is a polemical translation of Matthew dating from 1750. This may or may not be the same as the polemical rabbinical Hebrew New Testament of Rabbi Ezekiel bought by Claudius Buchanan in Cochin and known as the \"Travancore Hebrew New Testament\", which led Buchanan to urge Joseph Frey to commence work on a Christian translation.\n\nAround half of the 20 known Christian translations of Matthew were also done by authors who were formerly rabbis, or came from a rabbinical training: Domenico Gerosolimitano and Giovanni Battista Jona, Rudolph Bernhard, Johan Kemper, Simon Rosenbaum (of Uppsala), Christian David Ginsburg and Isaac Salkinson. However the principal modern Hebrew version of Matthew is based on the New Testament of a German, Franz Delitzsch.\n\nThe Hebrew and Aramaic primacy hypotheses posits that the Gospel of Matthew was originally written in Hebrew or Aramaic. Scholars who support these hypotheses sometimes appeal to these 3 medieval Hebrew manuscripts. However, the vast majority of scholars believe Matthew was originally written in Greek.\n\nGeorge Howard, Associate Professor of Religion and Hebrew at the University of Georgia has argued (1995) that some or all of these three medieval Hebrew versions may have descended (without any intervening translation) from ancient Hebrew manuscripts of Matthew, which may have been used by early Christians in the 1st or 2nd century, but were nearly extinct by the time of Jerome, late in the 4th century. \n\nHowever the surviving citations from Jewish-Christian Gospels (namely Gospel of the Nazarenes, Gospel of the Ebionites and Gospel of the Hebrews) preserved in the writings of Jerome, Epiphanius and others, lead critical scholars to conclude that those Gospels themselves either were Greek or were translated from Greek Matthew. In fact, most scholars consider that the medieval Hebrew manuscripts were descended (by translation) from medieval Greek or Latin manuscripts, and therefore that it is extremely unlikely that any of the unique readings found in these medieval Hebrew manuscripts could be ancient.\n\nHorbury (1999) notes that the characteristics of ibn Shaprut's \"Touchstone\" are better explained by the influence of Latin Gospel harmonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880415", "title": "Oberth (crater)", "text": "Oberth (crater)\n\nOberth is a crater on the far side of the Moon. It lies in the high northern latitudes, to the southeast of the crater Gamow. To the east of Oberth is Avogadro.\n\nThis is a slightly eroded crater with a roughly circular but uneven outer rim. A pair of small crater-like depressions are attached to the northern rim, and the inner wall is narrower along that section. There are slight outward bulges in the rim to the northwest and along the south. The interior floor is relatively level, with a small hill to the north of the midpoint. Several tiny craterlets lie across the crater floor.\n\nIt is named after the German physicist Hermann Oberth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880422", "title": "Oncorhynchus", "text": "Oncorhynchus\n\nOncorhynchus is a genus of fish in the family Salmonidae; it contains the Pacific salmon and Pacific trout. The name of the genus is derived from the Greek ὄγκος (ónkos, “lump, bend”) + ῥύγχος (rhúnkhos, “snout”), in reference to the hooked jaws of males in the mating season (the \"kype\").\n\nSalmon and trout with native ranges in waters draining to the Pacific Ocean are members of the genus. Their range extends from Beringia southwards, roughly to Taiwan in the west and Mexico to the east. In North America, some subspecies of \"O. clarki\" are native in the Rocky Mountains and Great Basin, while others are native to the Rio Grande and western tributaries of the Mississippi River Basin which drain to the Gulf of Mexico, rather than to the Pacific. Several species of \"Oncorhynchus\" have been introduced into non-native waters around the globe establishing self-sustaining wild populations.\n\nThe six Pacific salmons of \"Oncorhynchus\" are anadromous (migratory) and semelparous (die after spawning). Migration can be affected by parasites. Infected individuals can become weak and probably have shortened lifespans. Infection with parasites creates an effect known as culling whereby fish that are infected are less likely to complete the migration. Anadromous forms of \"Oncorhynchus mykiss\" known as steelhead are iteroparous. The Coastal cutthroat trout form of \"Oncorhynchus clarki\" is considered semi-anadromous as it spends short periods of time in marine environments.\n\nSeveral late Miocene [about 7 million years ago (Mya)] trout-like fossils in Idaho, in the Clarkia Lake beds, appear to be of \"Oncorhynchus\". The presence of these species so far inland established \"Oncorhynchus\" was not only present in the Pacific drainages before the beginning of the Pliocene (5–6 Mya), but also that rainbow and cutthroat trout, and Pacific salmon lineages had diverged before the beginning of the Pliocene. Consequently, the split between \"Oncorhynchus\" and \"Salmo\" (Atlantic salmon) must have occurred well before the Pliocene. Suggested dates have gone back as far as the early Miocene (about 20 Mya). One fossil species assigned to this genus, \"O. rastrosus\", the sabertooth salmon (synonym \"Smilodonichthys\"), is a -long species known from Late Miocene to Pleistocene fossils.\n\nSpeciation among \"Oncorhynchus\" has been examined for decades, and a family \"tree\" is not yet completely developed for the Pacific salmonids. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) research has been completed on a variety of Pacific trout and salmonid species, but the results do not necessarily agree with fossil research, or molecular research. Chum, pink and sockeye salmon lineages are generally agreed to have diverged in the sequence after other species. Montgomery (2000) discusses the pattern of the fossil record as compared to tectonic shifts in the plates of the Pacific Northwest of America. The (potential) divergence in \"Onchorhyncus\" lineages appear to follow the uprising of the Pacific Rim. The climatic and habitat changes that would follow such a geologic event are discussed, in the context of potential stressors leading to adaptation and speciation.\n\nOne interesting case involving speciation with salmon is that of the kokanee (landlocked) sockeye. Kokanee sockeye evolve differently from anadromous sockeye—they reach the level of \"biological species\". Biological species—as opposed to morphological species—are defined by the capacity to maintain themselves in sympatry as independent genetic entities. This definition can be vexing because it apparently applies only to sympatry, and this limitation makes the definition difficult to apply. Examples in Washington State, Canada, and elsewhere have two populations living in the same lake, but spawning in different substrates at different times, and eat different food sources. There is no pressure to compete or interbreed (two responses when resources are short). These types of kokanee salmon show the principal attributes of a biological species: they are reproductively isolated and show strong resources partitioning.\n\nA general decline in overall Pacific salmon populations began in the mid 19th century. As the result of western expansion and development in the U.S., experts estimate salmon populations in the Columbia River basin had been reduced to less than 20% of their pre-1850 levels by 1933. In 2008, Lackey estimated that Pacific salmon stocks in the Pacific Northwest were less than 10% of their pre-1850 numbers. Many of the remaining salmon runs are dominated by hatchery raised salmon, not wild salmon. Many isolated subspecies of the Pacific trouts, particularly those of \"Oncorhynchus mykiss\" rainbow trout and\n\"Oncorhynchus clarki\" cutthroat trout have declined in their native ranges. Many local populations or distinct population segments of anadromous forms of steelhead have declined in their native ranges. The resulting declines have resulted in a number of populations of \"Oncorhynchus\" species or subspecies being listed as either endangered, threatened or as \"Species of Special Concern\" by state, federal or international authorities. Two \"Oncorhynchus clarki\" subspecies are considered extinct. Declines are attributed to a wide variety of causes—over fishing, habitat loss and degradation, artificial propagation, stocking, and hybridization with or competition with introduced, non-native species. For example, the Yellowfin cutthroat trout (\"Oncorhynchus clarki macdonaldi\") is extinct as a result of the introduction of non-native rainbow trout into its native waters.\n\nDeclines in the abundance of wild salmon due to over fishing placed greater pressure on hatcheries to increase production and restore the wild salmon stock to supply fisheries. The problem is that hatcheries can never truly replicate the environment of wild salmon, an issue which often results in physiological and behavioral differences between wild salmon and those reared in hatcheries. These differences are often the product of genetic changes associated with inbreeding, artificial selection, and natural selection as well as different environmental pressures acting on hatchery fish than wild populations. Due to the size selective nature of fishing favoring larger fish, a reduction in average size of the adult salmon has been observed over time. The smaller salmon make a greater proportion of the remaining individuals continuing the population, and problems arise when these hatchery-reared fish are introduced into the wild populations. Unlike wild salmon, larger salmon are selected for in hatcheries and are typically much larger than wild salmon. The result is that hatchery-produced salmon tend to out-compete wild salmon for space, food, and other resources. Some salmon species in hatcheries exhibit predatory behavior toward wild salmon because they grow to be much larger. Regardless of whether predation is observed, natural social interactions are disturbed by the release of large numbers of hatchery-reared salmon where wild populations are low because salmon in hatcheries naturally have a higher propensity towards aggressive behavior. \n\nOverall, natural salmon populations are put at risk when hatchery-reared salmon populations are introduced due to competition for resources, predation by larger individuals, and negative social interactions that upset the natural order observed in wild salmon populations. As a result, wild salmon populations are steadily dropping as the pressure to continue breeding salmon in hatcheries increases. Conservation efforts that work to place limitations on hatcheries to increase the wild salmon populations are hindered by financial pressures because hatcheries effectively support many states economically by accounting for over 70% of the salmon harvested for recreational and commercial purposes.\n\nPacific salmon are harvested throughout the world as a source of food in countries ranging from the United States to South Korea. Over the past century, Pacific salmon have been extensively fished through both recreational, artisan and commercial fishing. In fact, since the 1970s there has been a nearly threefold increase in catch of Pacific salmon. As this catch has increased, a selection of reduced body size has been observed. In Japanese Chum Salmon, for example, between 1970 and 1988 there has been a continuous decrease in body weight averaging between 11 and 32 percent. In part, this decline in body weight has been related to the size selective effect of fishing gear used in the harvesting of salmon populations. Salmon of larger body weight are more apt to be caught during fishing efforts, causing lower body weight to be a beneficial character trait for survival. Thus, Pacific salmon have become continuously smaller in body size. However, studies have also shown that for Pacific salmon a larger mean size at the time of reproduction increases the survival of offspring. The life history of salmon favors delayed reproduction because fecundity increased with body size. Consequently, the smaller body size of salmon results in a negative impact on population growth by decreasing the survivability of progeny, and thus decreasing the growth rate of populations. This reduction of productivity in Pacific salmon is, in part, seeded in the overfishing and has caused a reduction in population sizes throughout Pacific salmon species. Today, it seems that population numbers of Pacific salmon are on the rise, however the consequences from the overfishing in the 70s and 80s are still being reflected with the average body size of salmon being smaller than before the event of overfishing.\n\nThere has been evidence that the sockeye salmon are affected by thermal conditions and their responses to temperature are relatively strong and tend to vary from region to region. Canada has also used the Species at Risk Act to recognize the importance of biological diversity when it comes to the conservation of the salmon population. This means that multiple species of salmon would be looked at when it comes to conservation as well as multiple areas that each species live in. COSEWIC, a Canadian organization for the conservation of species, has named the Interior Fraser River Coho, the Cultus Lake Sockeye, and the Sakinaw Lake Sockeye to all be endangered. In British Columbia sockeye salmon in four different watersheds were certified by the Marine Stewardship Council, or MSC, as sustainable fisheries in July 2010 and the certification is good for a period of five years. In 2011 MSC also certified the Pink Salmon Fishery and as of 2012 The Chum Salmon Fisheries started their review under the MSC to become certified as a sustainable fishery.\n\nThe US government has been working to develop a nationwide policy for the salmon populations. The Pacific Salmon Stronghold Conservation Act was re-submitted to congress and if passed will create geographic strongholds for salmon populations. Other policies include the Wild Salmon Policy which was enacted in 2005; its number one focus is the conservation of salmon off of the coasts. Even localized policies have begun, with one in Oregon which focuses on the southernmost watershed and was approved January 2013. In the Alaskan efforts, there is evidence of eight known regional groups of survival. It is also seen that the emigration of smolts (young salmon) from freshwater to other areas such as marine areas have shown significant consequences on the survival of different salmon groups. The Alaska Department of Fish and Game first received MSC, Marine Stewardship Council, Certification in sustainable seafood back in 2000. Each certification is good for a period of five years, with yearly check ups to ensure that the fishery remains sustainable. It was renewed again in 2007, but in 2012 The ADFG left the program. The Annette Island Reserve salmon fishery is under the control of the Metlakatla Indian community and as such was not included in the previous assessments of the Alaskan fisheries. It received its sustainability certification in June 2011. The Wild Salmon Center is a nonprofit organization that works on promoting conservation efforts for salmon worldwide and in the United States; it has helped secure protected watershed areas for Russian and west coast salmon. Other efforts of the Wild Salmon Center include combating illegal fishing, maintaining sustainable fisheries, and creating local watersheds as new habitats.\n\nPoaching is a threat to \"Oncorhynchus\" salmon and steelhead populations in Russia. It is estimated that illegal catching of salmon is 1.5 times more than the reported catch. The Wild Salmon Center is working with Russian authorities to try to help improve traceability systems so that markets can distinguish between legal sustainable salmon and the illegal salmon. The Wild Salmon Center has secured some of its protected locations for the salmon populations. In efforts with the WWF, the Wild Salmon Center was also able to have a Sockeye Salmon fishery certified as completely sustainable in 2012. The Iturup Island Pink and Chum Salmon Fishery was first certified in 2009 and was the first Russian salmon fishery to receive certification in sustainability by MSC. Other fisheries that were certified by MSC include the Northeast Sakhalin Island Pink Salmon, certified in June 2012, and the Ozernaya River Sockeye Salmon, certified in September 2012. The Aniva Bay Pink Salmon and the Sakhalin Island Pink salmon are both under review by the MSC.\n\nSeveral species of \"Oncorhynchus\" have been successfully introduced into non-native waters, establishing self-sustaining wild populations. The Rainbow Trout \"Oncorhynchus mykiss\" is the most widely introduced species of the genus. Rainbow Trout, Chinook Salmon \"Oncorhynchus tshawytscha\" and Coho Salmon \"Oncorhynchus kisutch\" have established wild, self-sustaining populations in the Great Lakes and Chinook in New Zealand (known there as quinnat, king or spring salmon). Aquaculture of Chinook and Coho salmon and Rainbow Trout are major industries in Chile and Australia. Chinook from Chile were released into Argentinean rivers and there were stockings of Coho and Sockeye Salmon and Rainbow Trout in Patagonia.\n\nSome of the species in this genus are highly variable and a number of now-obsolete taxa have been described. In 1989, morphological and genetic studies by Gerald Smith and Ralph Stearley indicated that trouts of the Pacific basin were genetically closer to Pacific salmon (\"Onchorhynchus\" species) than to the \"Salmos\" – brown trout (\"Salmo trutta\") or Atlantic salmon (\"Salmo salar\") of the Atlantic basin. Thus, in 1989, taxonomic authorities moved the Rainbow, Cutthroat and other Pacific basin trouts into the genus \"Oncorhynchus\". Currently, 12 species and numerous subspecies in this genus are recognized: Behnke (2002).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880423", "title": "Exile (song)", "text": "Exile (song)\n\n\"Exile\" is a song by the Irish singer Enya. It was first released on her 1988 album \"Watermark\", and was later released as the fourth and final single from the album in 1991 after it was featured in the film \"L.A. Story\". The song also appeared in the 1995 film \"Cry, the Beloved Country\" and on the TV series \"Haven\".\n\n\nGerman techno band Scooter sampled \"Exile\" on their single \"Jigga Jigga!\", taken from the 2004 album \"Mind the Gap\".\n"}
{"id": "1880426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880426", "title": "Simaroubaceae", "text": "Simaroubaceae\n\nThe Simaroubaceae are a small, mostly tropical, family in the order Sapindales. In recent decades, it has been subject to much taxonomic debate, with several small families being split off. A molecular phylogeny of the family was published in 2007, greatly clarifying relationships within the family. Together with chemical characteristics such as the occurrence of petroselinic acid in \"Picrasma\" in contrast to other members of the family such as \"Ailanthus\" this indicates the existence of a subgroup in the family with \"Picrasma\", \"Holacantha\", and \"Castela\".\n\nThe best-known species is the temperate Chinese tree-of-heaven \"Ailanthus altissima\", which has become a cosmopolitan weed tree of urban areas and wildlands.\n\nWell-known genera in the family include the tropical \"Quassia\" and \"Simarouba\".\n"}
{"id": "1880440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880440", "title": "Freudenthal suspension theorem", "text": "Freudenthal suspension theorem\n\nIn mathematics, and specifically in the field of homotopy theory, the Freudenthal suspension theorem is the fundamental result leading to the concept of stabilization of homotopy groups and ultimately to stable homotopy theory. It explains the behavior of simultaneously taking suspensions and increasing the index of the homotopy groups of the space in question. It was proved in 1937 by Hans Freudenthal.\n\nThe theorem is a corollary of the homotopy excision theorem.\n\nLet \"X\" be an \"n\"-connected pointed space (a pointed CW-complex or pointed simplicial set). The map\n\ninduces a map\n\non homotopy groups, where Ω denotes the loop functor and Σ denotes the reduced suspension functor. The suspension theorem then states that the induced map on homotopy groups is an isomorphism if \"k\" ≤ 2\"n\" and an epimorphism if \"k\" = 2\"n\" + 1.\n\nA basic result on loop spaces gives the relation\n\nso the theorem could otherwise be stated in terms of the map\n\nwith the small caveat that in this case one must be careful with the indexing.\n\nAs mentioned above, the Freudenthal suspension theorem follows quickly from homotopy excision; this proof is in terms of the natural map formula_5. If a space formula_6 is formula_7-connected, then the pair of spaces formula_8 is formula_9-connected, where formula_10 is the reduced cone over formula_6; this follows from the relative homotopy long exact sequence. We can decompose formula_12 as two copies of formula_10, say formula_14, whose intersection is formula_6. Then, homotopy excision says the inclusion map: \n\ninduces isomorphisms on formula_17 and a surjection on formula_18. From the same relative long exact sequence, formula_19 and since in addition cones are contractible, \n\nPutting this all together, we get \n\nfor formula_22, i.e. formula_23, as claimed above; for formula_24 the left and right maps are isomorphisms, regardless of how connected formula_6 is, and the middle one is a surjection by excision, so the composition is a surjection as claimed.\n\nLet \"S\" denote the \"n\"-sphere and note that it is (\"n\" − 1)-connected so that the groups formula_26 stabilize for formula_27 by the Freudenthal theorem. These groups represent the \"k\"th stable homotopy group of spheres.\n\nMore generally, for fixed \"k\" ≥ 1, \"k\" ≤ 2\"n\" for sufficiently large \"n\", so that any \"n\"-connected space \"X\" will have corresponding stabilized homotopy groups. These groups are actually the homotopy groups of an object corresponding to \"X\" in the stable homotopy category.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880441", "title": "Carlos Beltrán (musician)", "text": "Carlos Beltrán (musician)\n\nCarlos Beltrán Martínez de Castro (born 1957) is a Mexican multi-keyboard player.\n\nHe undertook classical training since his childhood days, and this formative years would influence his later composing outcome. In the early 1970s he was attracted to the sound of progressive rock of bands like Renaissance and Focus, but also to the so-called soft rock produced by performers like America and James Taylor. In 1987 Carlos released his only album to date, \"Jericho\", where he played all instruments, basically keyboards and percussion, whose sound was reminiscent of Klaus Schulze. The album didn't stir any grounds in his native country, but it was critically acclaimed, first in Japan, and then in other progressive quarters of Europe. Growing ever dissatisfied with the rock scene in Mexico, he opted to retire, but not before he distributed a home-made tape simply called \"Familia Carbajal\", where his expanding abilities as composer were evidenced. In 1997 \"Jericho\" appeared in CD format, making it accessible for a new generation of listeners from around the world.\n"}
{"id": "1880457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880457", "title": "Torsten Hägerstrand", "text": "Torsten Hägerstrand\n\nTorsten Hägerstrand (October 11, 1916, Moheda – May 3, 2004, Lund) was a Swedish geographer. He is known for his work on migration, cultural diffusion and time geography.\n\nA native and resident of Sweden, Hägerstrand was a professor (later professor emeritus) of geography at Lund University, where he received his doctorate in 1953. His doctoral research was on cultural diffusion. His research has helped to make Sweden, and particularly Lund, a major center of innovative work in cultural geography. He also influenced the practice of spatial planning in Sweden through his students.\n\nHägerstrand's father was a teacher at a remote elementary school and the family lived at the school. Hägerstrand recalled that his early education was based on the pedagogical ideas of Swiss educator Johann Pestalozzi. Several of Hägerstrand's students speculated that his holistic and visionary thinking was rooted in his early education: He was taught local geography, history and folklore at home in the Pestalozzi tradition which was being introduced at that time. Cartography, geology, botany and agronomy were all interrelated parts of a more holistic understanding of processes within a spatial area. To start with, children learned about their immediate environment (e.g., the school room and the farm), then about the village, and gradually the whole district. As a pupil of Hägerstrand, it is easy for me to recognize parts of this tradition which later became what we today would refer to as an 'integrative perspective'.\n\nHägerstrand entered Lund University in 1937. His 1953 doctoral thesis \"Innovation Diffusion as a Spatial Process\" gained fame for its innovative use of Monte Carlo simulation of demographic development. It showed how dynamic, incremental simulation of spatial processes could be used at the spatial scale of the individual as well as large spatial aggregates. Forty years later, geographer Andrew Cliff remarked on the foresight of Hägerstrand's methodology: \"Bearing in mind that much of the research upon which the book is based dates from a time when computers were almost nonexistent, let alone used by geographers, it is remarkable that the simulation methodology which is so critically dependent upon computing power should have been contemplated.\"\n\nHägerstrand's research was aided by developments at Lund University, notably the establishment of the \"Siffermaskinen i Lund\" (SMIL), one of Sweden's first computers. Hägerstrand noted that the Swedish computer scientist , who had been Hägerstrand's \"school-mate since secondary school\", had introduced him to the Monte Carlo method that would define his doctoral thesis, following a trip by Fröberg and other young Swedish scientists to the United States, a trip that was financed by the Swedish government's project to build its own computer.\n\nIn 1969, he presented a paper titled \"What about People in Regional Science?\" to the European Congress of the Regional Science Association in Copenhagen, Denmark. This paper, published in 1970, developed two concepts:\n\nHägerstrand's initial work was primarily quantitative, which is important as the discipline of geography was, when he published his first paper in 1942, a highly descriptive subject. In the 1950s he was a pioneer of geocoding statistical primary data. He developed models and statistical techniques, such as the time–space cube and time–space prism, which later became important in the development of geographic information systems that process and visualize movement data. His work informed the likes of Allan Pred and Nigel Thrift, who helped take it to the English speaking world.\n\nHägerstrand's work contributed to the introduction of humanistic thought into geography, which led to the development of critical geography. While his early work was largely quantitative, Hägerstrand's later work paid closer attention to notions of embodiment and emotion. Still, his methods were critiqued by feminist geographer Gillian Rose, who claimed that his models showed a masculine and falsely-ordered view of the world. More recent geographers have tried to combine time geography with the qualitative research and affective phenomenology of feminist geography.\n\nDevelopment of Hägerstrand's work has continued to form part of the basis for non-representational theory, and a reappraisal of his work by new generations of social scientists and biologists means that he remains an influential thinker today. In 2005, Nigel Thrift summarized five benefits of Hägerstrand's time geography for contemporary social science: First, it provides a sense of concreteness, of the power of 'thereness', and it does so in a way—visually—that is still the preserve of too few social theorists. All those intricate diagrams were, in part, an attempt to describe the pragmatics of events, a theme which has now, in the work of writers like Deleuze, become fashionable in the social sciences and humanities but, at the time at which Hägerstrand was working, tended to be restricted to the field of philosophy, except for the work of social interactionists and ethnomethodologists which was often very imperfectly understood by other than a relatively small coterie of enthusiasts. Secondly, Hägerstrand's work was an attack on the Durkheimian idea that space and time were social categories, collective representations which both derived from society and also dictated to society. [...] Time-geography makes it possible to go beyond social constructionism by emphasizing the physical constraints on human action and the wider networks of competing opportunities that they set up which act to steer situations. [...] Thirdly, and as a directly related point, those time-geographic diagrams did something else too. They radically lessened the distinction between humans and other objects. They provided a kind of neutrality of representation, even a democracy of description, of the world. [...] Fourthly, Hägerstrand's work espoused a geographical ethics, centred on the wise use of space and time. Although Hägerstrand would often use economic metaphors to describe that wisdom in the use of space and time, I am sure that he meant something broader and more encompassing which it seems to me to be well worth keeping hold of, a kind of democratic ethos of the cardinal dimensions, a conviviality in the use of space and time. Fifthly, Hägerstrand provided a language which could register the world in different ways. Perhaps one way of looking at Hägerstrand's work is as a means of saying 'hello' in a language many can understand: drawing as a kind of visual Esperanto.\n\nHe received honorary doctorates from University of Bergen, Norwegian school of economics and business administration, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, University of Bristol, University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow and Ohio State University. The commendation accompanying the honorary degree at Ohio State University noted that \"his work on innovation diffusion, carried out in the 1950s and 1960s, continues to be cited as a standard against which current research is measured\" and that \"this distinguished individual...inspired a generation of scholars around the world.\"\n\nHe was a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, the Finnish Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy, and a member of Société de Géographie in France. He was also one of the founding members of Academia Europaea.\n\nIn 1968 Professor Hägerstrand was awarded the Charles P. Daly Medal of the American Geographical Society and in 1968 received an Outstanding Achievement Award from the Association of American Geographers. In 1979 he received the Victoria Medal from the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nIn 1992 Torsten Hägerstrand was awarded Lauréat Prix International de Géographie Vautrin Lud, the highest award in the geography research field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880459", "title": "Thalictrum", "text": "Thalictrum\n\nThalictrum () is a genus of 120-200 species of herbaceous perennial flowering plants in the buttercup family, Ranunculaceae, native mostly to temperate regions. Meadow-rue is a common name for plants in this genus.\n\n\"Thalictrum\" is a taxonomically difficult genus with poorly understood species boundaries; it is in need of further taxonomic and field research for clarification.\n\nDespite their common name of \"meadow-rue\", \"Thalictrum\" species are not closely related to the true rue (family Rutaceae), but resemble its members in having compound leaves twice or thrice divided.\n\nMeadow-rue leaves are alternate, bipinnately compound, and commonly glaucous blue-green in colour.\n\nThe flowers are small and apetalous (no petals), but have numerous long stamens, often brightly white, yellow, pink or pale purple, and are produced in conspicuous dense inflorescences. In some species (e.g. \"T. chelidonii\", \"T. tuberosum\"), the sepals are large, brightly coloured and petal-like, but in most they are small and fall when the flower opens or soon after.\n\nMeadow-rues are usually found in shaded or damp locations, with a sub-cosmopolitan range throughout most of the Northern Hemisphere and also south to southern Africa and tropical South America, but absent from Australasia. They are most common in temperate regions of the world; twenty-two species are found in North America.\n\nAnemophily (wind pollination) is a characteristic of some members this genus, as seen in \"Thalictrum fendleri\" and \"Thalictrum dioicum\". Others, such as \"Thalictrum sparsiflorum\", are entomophilous (pollinated by insects).\n\n\"Thalictrum\" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including the Setaceous Hebrew Character moth.\n\n\"Thalictrum\" species have been extensively studied by chemists. Typical natural products found in this genus are benzylisoquinoline alkaloids such as magnoflorine and the structurally related alkaloid berberine.\n"}
{"id": "1880461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880461", "title": "Royal Australian Army Medical Corps", "text": "Royal Australian Army Medical Corps\n\nThe Royal Australian Army Medical Corps (RAAMC) is the branch of the Australian Army responsible for providing medical care to Army personnel. The AAMC was formed in 1902 through the amalgamation of medical units of the various Australian colonies and was first deployed to South Africa as a small detachment of personnel supporting the Australian Commonwealth Horse during the Second Boer War. The corps has participated in every Australian Army operation since then, including wars and peacekeeping operations. The \"Royal\" prefix was granted in 1948.\nThe Australian Army Medical Corps was formed on 1 July 1902 by combining the medical services of the armed forces of the various Australian colonies that had been in existence prior Federation, which had their origins in the medical structures of the British forces that had deployed to Australia during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. The corps' first deployment was to the Second Boer War, where it provided a field hospital and a stretcher bearer company attached in support of the Australian Commonwealth Horse, the first contingent of Australian troops deployed operationally following Federation. The force's role was limited as by the time it was deployed the large scale fighting was basically over. Prior to this, though, the various colonial forces had also contributed medical detachments to the war in support of their own and other British and colonial forces, and these units – consisting of various types of medical personnel including surgeons, dentists, cooks, drivers, and bearers – had been heavily involved. One officer, Lieutenant Neville Howse, of the New South Wales Army Medical Corps, received the Victoria Cross for his actions during the war; Howse eventually rose to become Director of Medical Services within the Australian Imperial Force. An earlier deployment had also occurred in 1885, when a New South Wales Contingent of infantry and artillery was deployed to assist British forces in the Sudan conflict, a small medical detachment had also been deployed.\n\nThe development of medical units within the Australian colonial forces had begun in the mid-1850s when the colonial military forces had been in their infancy. Initially, it had been limited largely to single doctors who were attached to infantry units in an honorary role, but as the colonial military forces had become more sophisticated, various medical units or corps were formed, consisting of a variety of personnel including doctors, non-commissioned officers, orderlies, bearers, and dispensers as well as cooks and drivers. Within each colony, these units were tasked with various duties including conducting medical examinations of recruits, and providing emergency medical aid during field manoeuvres; initially, they were unpaid volunteers, but eventually a system of paid part-time soldiering developed. The reliance upon part-time professionals is a common theme in the corps' development, due largely the nature of the specialised skill sets required by some personnel, particularly doctors and surgeons; however, as the corps' role has expanded, it has become a broader organisation, with personnel serving in many capacities including professional and non-professional roles including stretcher bearers, orderlies, medical assistants, pathologists, radiographers, pharmacists, drivers, physiotherapists, as well as the traditional domains of the medical officer, and in many of these areas, particularly after the Second World War there has been an expansion of the size of the corps' regular personnel, although Reservists continue to provide much of its higher clinically trained personnel.\n\nSince its involvement in South Africa, the corps' role as a supporting branch of the Australian Army has expanded considerably as the importance of medicine as an enabler to successful military operations has become apparent. As a result, the corps has seen service during all major Australian Army deployments and wars since its establishment, including the First and Second World Wars, the Korean War, Vietnam, and various peacekeeping operations. During these conflicts, corps personnel have either been embedded directly into combat formations to provide medical support at the lowest level possible, or have been formed into dedicated medical units. The various types of units raised for these deployments also reflects the development of the corps. Early units raised were quite rudimentary and provided only narrowly focused capabilities, but over time increasingly sophisticated units have been raised. For instance during the First World War, the corps raised various units including: casualty clearing stations, field ambulances, stationary hospitals, general hospitals, hospital ships, sanitary sections, infections diseases hospitals, convalescent depots, and even sanatoriums. The Second World War saw similar units, but also the raising of various transport services, including trains, bacteriological and pathology laboratories, hospital laundries, administrative units and stores depots. A field ambulance unit – the 8th – was also deployed to Vietnam, as was a field hospital.\n\nThe \"Royal\" prefix was granted on 10 November 1948, and the day is celebrated as a corps' day. The Army School of Health was established the same year at Puckapunyal, Victoria, but it was moved to Portsea in 1950, and then later to the Army Logistic Training Centre at Latchford Barracks at Bonegilla, in 1998.\n\nTogether with the Royal Australian Army Dental Corps and the Royal Australian Army Nursing Corps, the RAAMC is responsible for providing the Australian Army's health capability. The corps is tasked with providing the Army with a range of medical services, ranging from pre hospital care including emergency battlefield care, initial wound surgery, post operative care, rehabilitation, and preventive and aviation medical support. Regular and reserve soldiers and officers of the RAAMC perform a variety of functions, with graduates of the 18-month Regular first appointment course at the Royal Military College, Duntroon and its modularised Reserve equivalent, filling command, leadership and management roles as general service officers tasked with facilitating the efficient co-ordination, administration and management of specialist troops including medical officers, pathologists, radiographers, operating theatre technicians, paramedics, preventive medicine operators, and medical technicians. Personnel within these trades are posted to a variety of units including close, general and health support battalions that are located around the country and provide support to the three regular Army manoeuvre brigades – the 1st, 3rd and 7th Brigades – and the Reserve 2nd Division. Deployed combat formations based around infantry battalions, or armoured, artillery and engineer regiments include RAAMC personnel, who are provided by detaching individuals or sub-units as required.\n\nRAAMC personnel are currently employed in the following units:\n\n\nThe following people have served as Colonel-in-Chief of the RAAMC:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880463", "title": "Marvel Edge", "text": "Marvel Edge\n\nMarvel Edge was a short-lived Marvel Comics imprint lasting from 1995 to 1996. Some of Marvel's \"edgier\" (more adult) titles were moved into the Marvel Edge imprint. These included titles featuring such characters as Daredevil, Doctor Strange, Ghost Rider, the Hulk, Nick Fury, and the Punisher.\n\nMarvel Edge was discontinued right before the Onslaught Saga (comics cover-dated May 1996).\n\nFollowing an inter-office shake-up in late 1994, Tom DeFalco was removed as Marvel's Editor-in-Chief. Rather than name a successor, Marvel appointed five \"Editors-in-Chief,\" each of whom would oversee a certain number of titles and, by extension, a certain portion of the Marvel Universe. This change was reflected externally by collecting all Marvel monthlies into broad groups: the X-Men titles, the Spider-Man titles, and three new imprints, one of them being Marvel Edge, which was overseen by Bobbie Chase.\n\nThe imprint was launched with the storyline \"Over the Edge,\" (beginning in comics cover-dated September 1995) in which The Punisher went temporarily insane. He became convinced Nick Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. were responsible for the death of his family, and pursued Fury through various titles which would form the core of the imprint, finally killing him. This led to a relaunch of the \"Punisher\" title, where the mafia faked Frank Castle's execution and recruited him as a mob boss.\n\nThe Marvel Edge imprint was discontinued after all comics were published with a cover-date of April 1996.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880464", "title": "Upper motor neuron", "text": "Upper motor neuron\n\nUpper motor neurons (UMNs) is a term introduced by William Gowers in 1886. They are found in the cerebral cortex and brainstem and carry information down to activate interneurons and lower motor neurons, which in turn directly signal muscles to contract or relax. UMNs in the cerebral cortex are the main source of voluntary movement. \n\nThey are the larger pyramidal cells in the cerebral cortex. There is a type of giant pyramidal cell called \"Betz cells\" and are found just below the surface of the cerebral cortex within layer V of the primary motor cortex. The cell bodies of \"Betz cell\" neurons are the largest in the brain, approaching nearly 0.1mm in diameter. \n\nThe primary motor cortex, or precentral gyrus, is one of the most important areas in the frontal lobe. The precentral gyrus is the most posterior gyrus of the frontal lobe and it lies anterior to the central sulcus. The pyramidal cells of the precentral gyrus are also called upper motor neurons. The fibers of the upper motor neurons project out of the precentral gyrus ending in the brainstem, where they will decussate (intersect) within the lower medulla oblongata to form the lateral corticospinal tract on each side of the spinal cord. The fibers that do not decussate will pass through the medulla and continue on to form the anterior corticospinal tracts. The upper motor neuron descends in the spinal cord to the level of the appropriate spinal nerve root. At this point, the upper motor neuron synapses with the lower motor neuron, each of whose axons innervate a fiber of skeletal muscle.\n\nThese neurons connect the brain to the appropriate level in the spinal cord, from which point nerve signals continue to the muscles by means of the lower motor neurons. The neurotransmitter glutamate transmits the nerve impulses from upper to lower motor neurons, where it is detected by glutamatergic receptors.\n\nUpper motor neurons travel in several neural pathways through the central nervous system (CNS):\n\nAny upper motor neuron lesion, also known as pyramidal insufficiency, occurs in the neural pathway above the anterior horn of the spinal cord. Such lesions can arise as a result of stroke, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury or other acquired brain injury. The resulting changes in muscle performance that can be wide and varied are described overall as upper motor neuron syndrome. Symptoms can include muscle weakness, decreased motor control including a loss of the ability to perform fine movements, increased vigor (and decreased threshold) of spinal reflexes including spasticity, clonus (involuntary, successive cycles of contraction/relaxation of a muscle), and an extensor plantar response known as the Babinski sign.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880482", "title": "Rich Harden", "text": "Rich Harden\n\nJames Richard Harden (born November 30, 1981) is a Canadian former professional baseball pitcher. He pitched for the Oakland Athletics, Chicago Cubs, and Texas Rangers of Major League Baseball.\n\nHarden attended Claremont Secondary School in Victoria, British Columbia. He was a childhood friend and neighbor of Olympic diver Riley McCormick. Harden was drafted by the Seattle Mariners in the 38th round of the 1999 Major League Baseball Draft, but instead attended Central Arizona College, which he graduated in 2001. While there he played baseball alongside future MLB All-Star second baseman Ian Kinsler.\n\nHe led all NJCAA Division I pitchers with 127 strikeouts in 2001, and his ERA of 2.14 was the 5th lowest in the nation. In his first professional season as a 19-year-old with the Vancouver Canadians in Single-A, Harden had a 2–4 record in 18 games (14 starts), a 3.39 ERA, allowed only 47 hits and struck out 100 batters in 74 innings.\n\nHarden was drafted by the Athletics in the 17th round of the 2000 Major League Baseball Draft, and signed by the team on May 28, 2001, shortly after graduating.\n\nIn 2002, Harden began the year with the Single-A Visalia Oaks of the California League and was very impressive in 12 starts, as he had a 4–3 record with an ERA of 2.91, and struck out 85 batters in 68 innings. Halfway through the 2002 season, Harden was promoted to the Double-A Midland RockHounds of the Texas League, where he continued his impressive season, earning a record of 8–3, with an ERA of 2.95 in 16 starts. He also struck out 102 batters in 85 innings. His combined 2002 stats were 12–6, 2.93 ERA, 187 strikeouts and 75 walks in 153 innings.\n\nHarden began the 2003 season with Midland, and in 2 games, he had a 2–0 record and pitched 13 perfect innings, striking out 17 along the way. He was then promoted to the Triple-A Sacramento River Cats of the Pacific Coast League, where he pitched very well. In 16 games, 14 of which he started, Harden went 9–4 with an ERA of 3.15. Overall, Harden finished with a combined 11–4 record, 2.74 ERA, 107 strikeouts and 35 walks in 102 innings in the Minor leagues during the 2003 season. He was then promoted to the Oakland Athletics in July 2003.\n\nHarden made his major league debut on July 21, 2003, against the Kansas City Royals. He held the Royals to only one run on four hits in seven innings, earning a no decision. Through Harden's first five starts, he had a 3–1 record, with an ERA of 1.69. In his next two, he allowed six runs in four innings against the Toronto Blue Jays on August 21, and then eight runs in 2.2 innings on August 26 against the Boston Red Sox. He finished the season with a 5–4 record and an ERA of 4.46. Harden pitched in two games in relief with the Athletics in their Division Series matchup with the Red Sox. In his playoff debut on October 1, Harden earned the win, pitching a scoreless inning. However in his second appearance, he pitched only one-third of an inning, and allowed two runs and was tagged with the loss.\n\nHarden began the 2004 season with the Sacramento River Cats, coming out of spring training as the A's 5th starter. But the Athletics had two off days in the first eight days of the season, and they optioned him down to get a start in the minor leagues. He pitched in one game, losing 5–3 to the Edmonton Trappers. The Athletics called him up on April 10, and he put together a very solid season with an 11–7 record and an ERA of 3.99. Harden compiled an 8–2 record and an ERA of 3.49 after the All-Star break. He ranked 8th in the AL with 167 strikeouts, and was tied for 7th with 81 walks. Harden allowed just 16 home runs in 189.2 innings, an average of 0.76 per nine innings, which was tied for 4th lowest in the American League. He threw the fastest fastball of all major league starters, averaging 94.3 miles per hour.\n\nIn 2005, Harden began the season with the Athletics, but was sidelined with an oblique injury, and missed more than a month. Harden came back and pitched a two-hit game against the Texas Rangers on July 14, in which he allowed no runs for 7+ innings. One month later on August 14, Harden allowed only one hit, but received a no decision, en route to a 2–1 loss against the Minnesota Twins. On August 19, Harden had a 10–5 record with an ERA of 2.63, until he injured his right shoulder, sidelining him until September 25, by which time the Athletics were already out of the playoff hunt. Harden appeared in three games late in the season, pitching 5 innings of shutout ball, striking out seven and walking one. He finished the year with a 10–5 win-loss record, an ERA of 2.57 and 121 strikeouts in 128 innings. He allowed only seven HR's all season long, and despite the injuries, he emerged as the ace of the Oakland Athletics pitching staff.\n\nIn 2006, Harden had two lengthy stints on the DL, spending most of the season there. He came back from the DL on September 21, 2006, for a short but outstanding start, going 3 innings allowing 1 run and recording 7 strikeouts, while finishing the season with a 4–0 record.\n\nHe started off the 2007 season with a win against the Seattle Mariners, going 7 innings, striking out 7, and allowing two walks and two hits, before returning to the DL, on April 23.\n\nAfter another injury-plagued season, Harden started off the 2008 season with a strong start against the Boston Red Sox, pitching six strong innings and giving up a run and three hits while walking three and striking out nine batters. However, after his second start, he was again placed on the disabled list. Harden was activated on May 11 and struggled in his return allowing 8 hits and 5 runs in 3.2 innings and earning a no decision. In Harden's next start against his former teammate Tim Hudson and the Atlanta Braves, he pitched 7 innings only allowing 4 hits and 1 run while earning the win. In this start against the Braves on May 17, Harden also achieved his first major league hit.\n\nOn June 8, 2008, he became the 38th pitcher to strike out three batters on nine pitches. This was done in the first inning, against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.\n\nHarden was traded to the Chicago Cubs on July 8, 2008, in a six-player deal. The Cubs traded Matt Murton, Eric Patterson, Sean Gallagher, and Josh Donaldson to Oakland for Harden and Chad Gaudin. He made his Cubs debut on July 12, against the San Francisco Giants, leaving the game with a 7–0 lead after pitching scoreless inning and striking out 10. Though the Cubs won 8–7, Harden earned a no decision after Carlos Mármol was unable to hold a five-run lead in the ninth. Harden registered ten strikeouts and allowed only one run in both of his following starts, but was not able to earn a win. He finally recorded his first win as a Cub on July 31, 2008, against the Milwaukee Brewers. At this point, Harden had the highest winning percentage among all starting pitchers over the last three years, with a record of 15–4 (.789).\nOn October 8, 2008, the Cubs picked up the $7 million option in Harden's contract for the 2009 season.\n\nOn December 10, 2009, Harden signed with the Texas Rangers to a one year, $6.5 million contract, with a mutual option for 2011. Harden struggled in 2010 with a 5.68 ERA through 13 starts. He threw more pitches per inning than any starter in the league. He was put on the DL in June with a gluteal strain and returned to the rotation on July 31, pushing Scott Feldman to the bullpen. On August 23, 2010, the Texas Rangers combined for innings of no-hit ball on the Minnesota Twins, in which Rich Harden pitched innings but was pulled after throwing 111 pitches. Neftalí Feliz eventually gave up the first hit for the Twins with one out in the ninth, a single to catcher Joe Mauer. Texas won the game, 4–0.\nOn October 9, 2010, Harden was released by the Texas Rangers after being left off the post-season roster. The Rangers were playing the Tampa Bay Rays in the ALDS at the time. Harden finished the season with a record of 5–5 and a 5.58 ERA.\n\nHarden rejoined the Athletics on a one-year contract in 2011. On July 30, 2011, Oakland agreed to trade Harden to the Boston Red Sox in exchange for Triple-A First Baseman Lars Anderson and a player to be named later. That deal, however, fell through after the Red Sox front office reviewed Harden's medical records and determined that it was unlikely he would make it through the season without injury. Harden remained with the Athletics through the next day's non-waiver trade deadline. He finished the year at 4–4 over fifteen games with a 5.12 ERA but a high 9.91 strikeouts per nine innings. The Athletics declined arbitration at the end of the season.\n\nDuring the 2011–12 off-season, Harden underwent shoulder surgery and spent the entire 2012 season on free agency without signing for a team or playing a single game.\n\nAfter a one year hiatus from baseball due to recovering from shoulder surgery, Harden signed a minor league contract with the Minnesota Twins on December 21, 2012.\nHarden was released on July 27, 2013.\n\nHarden threw four pitches: a fastball, a changeup, a splitter, and a slider. Harden's fastball typically reached speeds of 92–96 miles per hour (mph) and on occasion broke 100 mph. Because of the grip he used, his splitter often acted much like a knuckleball because it was difficult to predict what it would do, resulting in it often being referred to as the \"ghost pitch\". Former Oakland Athletics catcher Adam Melhuse coined the term \"spluckle\" (a combination of splitter and knuckleball) to refer to this innovative pitch.\n\nHarden was well known for his ability to induce strikeouts. With the exception of his 2010 season with the Texas Rangers, he struck out over a quarter of batters he faced after 2006. His swinging strikeout rate of 13% was highest of all then-active major league starters since 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880489", "title": "Dolly Varden trout", "text": "Dolly Varden trout\n\nThe Dolly Varden trout (\"Salvelinus malma\") is a species of salmonid native to cold-water tributaries of the Pacific Ocean in Asia and North America. It is in the genus \"Salvelinus\" of true chars, which includes 51 recognized species, the most prominent being the brook, lake and bull trout, as well as Arctic char. Although many populations are semi-anadromous, fluvial and lacustrine populations occur throughout its range. It is considered by taxonomists as part of the \"Salvelinus alpinus\" or Arctic char complex, as many populations of bull trout, Dolly Varden trout and Arctic char overlap.\n\nThe scientific name of the Dolly Varden is \"Salvelinus malma\". The species was originally named by German naturalist and taxonomist Johann Julius Walbaum in 1792 based on type specimens from the Kamchatka Peninsula in Siberia. The name \"malma\" was based on the local Russian colloquial name for the fish. The Dolly Varden trout is considered part of the \"S. alpinus\" or Arctic char complex.\n\nFor most of the 19th and 20th centuries, the Dolly Varden trout (\"S. malma\") and the bull trout (\"S. confluentus\") were considered the same species. Additionally, the Arctic char (\"S. alpinus\") along with the bull trout have ranges that overlap and are remarkably similar in appearance, thus complicating identification. In 1978, inland forms of the Dolly Varden trout were reclassified as \"Salvelinus confluentus\", retaining the common name bull trout. It appears that the first recorded use of the Dolly Varden name for fish referred to \"S. confluentus\", now commonly known as the bull trout. This was likely due to overlapping ranges and similar appearances among members of the two species.\n\nIn North America, two subspecies of Dolly Varden are distinguished, the Northern Dolly Varden (\"S. m. malma\") of the Arctic drainages and the Southern Dolly Varden (\"S. m. lordi\") of the Pacific drainages. These can be distinguished as separate mitochondrial lineages also. The status of the Beringian drainage populations remains unclear. Northern populations on the Russian side of the Pacific down to Kamchatka are considered \"S. m. malma\", and the southerly populations make another lineage and subspecies, the Asian Dolly Varden (or southern Dolly Varden) \"S. m. krascheninnikova\" (= \"S. curilus\"). The landlocked Miyabe Char (\"S. m. miyabei\" Oshima, 1938) from Lake Shikaribetsu on Hokkaido in Japan is also included in the Dolly Varden species.\n\n\nThe first recorded use of the name \"Dolly Varden\" was applied to members of \"S. confluentus\" caught in the McCloud River in northern California in the early 1870s. In his book, \"Inland Fishes of California\", Peter Moyle recounts a letter sent to him on March 24, 1974, from Valerie Masson Gomez:\nIn 1874, Livingston Stone, a naturalist working for the U.S. government, wrote of this fish:\nAlthough the name \"Dolly Varden\" was originally given to the bull trout of the McCloud River, bull trout (\"S. confluentus\") and Dolly Varden trout (\"S. malma\") were considered the same species (\"S. malma\") until 1978. Thus the common name \"Dolly Varden\" gained acceptance for \"S. malma\" for over 100 years. Additionally, the Arctic char (\"S. alpinus\") and Russian subspecies have been referred to as Dolly Varden. It is known as \"belyi golets\" in Russian.\n\nThe back and sides are olive green or muddy gray, shading to white on the belly. The body has scattered pale yellow or pinkish-yellow spots. There are no black spots or wavy lines on the body or fins. Small red spots are present on the lower sides. These are frequently indistinct. The fins are plain and unmarked except for a few light spots on the base of the caudal fin rays. \"S. malma\" is extremely similar in appearance to the bull trout (\"S. confluentus\") and Arctic char (\"S. alpinus\"), so much so that they are sometimes referred to as \"native char\" without a distinction.\n\nThe Dolly Varden trout is found in coastal waters of the North Pacific from Puget Sound north along the British Columbia Coast to the Alaska Peninsula and into the eastern Aleutian Islands, along the Bering Sea and the Arctic Sea to the Mackenzie River. The range in Asia extends south through the Kamchatka Peninsula into northern Japan.\n\nDolly Varden are found in three distinct forms. A semi-anadromous or sea-run form migrates from fresh water and spends some time in the ocean or saltwater bays and estuaries to feed before returning to fresh water to spawn. Fluvial forms live in moderate to large freshwater riverine environments and migrate into smaller tributaries to spawn. A third form is found in deep, cold lakes, from where they eventually migrate into tributary streams to spawn. Most populations of the northern Dolly Varden (\"S. m. malma\") are semi-anadromous, while more fluvial and lacustrine populations are found among the southern Dolly Varden (\"S. m. lordi\").\n\nIn the early 20th century, the Dolly Varden (still including bull trout, and often confused with Arctic char) suffered from a reputation as an undesirable predator of fish such as salmon, steelhead and cutthroat trout. Despite co-evolving with these other species for thousands of years, Dolly Varden were accused of indiscriminately feeding on eggs and fry of other species to their detriment. Between 1921 and 1941, the Territory of Alaska, supported by the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries, had an official extermination program that paid bounties on Dolly Varden. In the Iliamna Lake/Kvichak River region in southwest Alaska, the bounty was 2.5 cents per Dolly Varden tail turned into the territorial tax collector. Locals would trap Dolly Varden in nets and weirs, string 40 tails on a hoop of bailing wire and smoke them over a wood fire. One hoop would be worth one dollar. The fish carcasses would be used for dog food. The hoops of fishtails were then used as currency to pay for supplies, or in some reports, airfare with local bush pilots.\n\nThe northern Dolly Varden in the Canadian province of British Columbia and in the federal region of the Northwest Territories is listed as a species of special concern.\n\nThe Dolly Varden is considered and regulated as a game fish in the U.S. and Canada. Dolly Varden make up a sizable percentage of the catch in Alaskan subsistence fisheries where salmon are not abundant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880493", "title": "Chupan", "text": "Chupan\n\nAmir Chūpān (; died November 1327), also spelt Choban or Coban, was a Chupanid noble of the Ilkhanate, and nominal general of the Mongol Empire. He was ennobled by Emperor Taiding of Yuan as Duke of Yi (翊國公).\n\nChupan's father Malek participated in Siege of Baghdad while his uncle Akrunchi participated in a campaign in Georgia in 1318. His grandfather was Tudaun from the Suldus clan and was directly descended from Chilaun, who was one of Chingis Khan's four great companions. Tudaun accompanied Hulagu on his campaign against Golden Horde in 1262 and named as governor of Diyar Bakr, died in 1277 at the Battle of Elbistan. \n\nHe participated in a battle against Nogai of Golden Horde in 1289 during his 20s. Amir Chupan was mentioned as a supporter of Gaykhatu during the latter's successful campaign for the Ilkhanid throne. During Ghazan's fight with Baydu for the throne in 1295, Chupan met with him near the Ustunavand castle and changed sides. He participated in a campaign against Sulaimish of Oirats, who rebelled in Anatolia in 1299. He acted as a senior commander during Ghazan's three campaigns against Syria, then under the rule of the Mamelukes. However later, Chupan's army under the command of Ghazan's chief military officer Qutlugh Shah, was defeated by the Mamelukes in the battle of Marj al-Saffar (1303). When Qutlugh Shah fled, Chupan stayed with the army, and reached Ghazan in June. Ghazan, furious at the defeat, punished both Qutlugh Shah and Chupan, though the latter was dealt with more leniently. He also met Zahid Gilani sometime during reign of Ghazan.\n\nOn 19 March 1305 Chupan was betrothed to the daughter of Ghazan's successor Öljeitü, Dowlandi Khatun. In 1307 he was given command of one of four armies assigned to quell the rebellious province of Gilan. Marching from Ardabil, he convinced the rulers of Astara and Gaskar to surrender peacefully, and then met up with Öljeitü. Qutlugh Shah's army, however, did not fare so well, and he was killed by the Gilakis. Following his death, Öljeitü made Chupan his chief military commander or Amir of the Ulus (nation). This was followed by his marriage to his fiancee Dowlandi on 30 September 1307. Chupan was now a major influence behind the throne, though he had to contend with the court viziers. Dowlandi died in 1314, following death of Öljeitü in 1316, his son Abu Sa'id confirmed Chupan's status as Amir of the Ulus, despite attempts by the Amir Sevinch to gain the position for himself. Moreover was bethothed to Sati Beg, another daughter of Öljeitü in 1317. \n\nChupan attempted to neutralize the influence of the viziers. In 1318, he convinced the discredited former vizier Rashid-al-Din Hamadani to return to the Ilkhanid court. Rashid, who had many enemies, was accused of poisoning Öljeitü soon after he returned. Chupan promptly turned on him, and Rashid-al-Din was put to death in July of that year. \n\nIn 1319, armies under the command of the khan of the Blue Horde, Öz-Beg, invaded the Ilkhanate. Abu Sa'id led a campaign to stop the invasion. Chupan was on his way to assist Amir Husain (the father of the founder of the Jalayirids, Hasan Buzurg) against the raids of the Chagatai prince Yasa'ur, who was devastating Khurasan, but then turned around to support Abu Sa'id upon receiving word that the latter's position across the Kur River was in danger. Several of Abu Sa'id's officers had deserted, leaving his army weakened. He rushed to his master's position, only to find the troops of the Blue Horde already in flight. Nevertheless, Chupan inflicted heavy casualties upon the enemy. \n\nThe matter of Abu Sa'id's officers fleeing still needed to be addressed. When the amir enacted punishment against Qurumushi (also a potential rival), as well as several other officers, for their military negligence, a conspiracy was then launched against him. The conspirators included Abu Sa'id's uncle Irinjin, who Chupan had dismissed from the governorship of Diyarbakr. Irinjin was defeated near Mianeh in June 1319. Following these events, Chupan gained almost complete influence over the Ilkhan, and his sons gained prominent positions as the Ilkhanate was parceled out between them. His sons Timurtash, Shaikh Mahmud, Hasan and Demasq Kaja were given governorships of Anatolia, Georgia, Khorasan and Azerbaijan respectively. He also married Abu Sa'id's sister Sati Beg, whom he had been betrothed to since 1316. \n\nHowever, his son Timurtash rose in rebellion in 1322, claiming to be Mahdi. Chupan went to obtain his surrender personally and even managed to get reappointment to the post by Abu Sa'id. Abu Sa'id sometime fell in love with Baghdad Khatun, one of emir Chupan's daughters. The emir's efforts to keep Abu Sa'id from marrying his daughter, who was still married to Hasan Buzurg (another powerful kingmaker of the era), did not help the situation. Abu Said approached Chupan in 1325, claiming her unsuccessfully. Chupan sent his daughter and son-in-law to Karabakh instead while himself went against Özbeg and Tarmashirin who invaded Azerbaijan and Khorasan respectively. Same year Chupan defeated another force led by Özbeg, and even invaded the Blue Horde. \n\nAs Chupan had reached the height of his power, he had also sown the seeds of his fall. While Abu Sa'id lacked a treasury, Chupan's son and administrative representative Demasq Kaja spent his wealth extravagantly. This situation annoyed the Ilkhan, who was further influenced against him by his viziers, particularly Rukn al-Din Sa'in, Chupan's own protégé. Chupan's efforts to keep Abu Sa'id from marrying his daughter Bagdad Katun, who was already married to Hasan Buzurg, did not help the situation. \n\nEarly in 1326, Chupan led an army to defend against an imminent invasion of Khurasan. By the request of Abu Said, the Khagan Yesün Temür awarded his custodian Chupan the nominal title of a chief-commander of all Mongol Khanates. In the autumn of that year, the Chagatai Khan Tarmashirin crossed the Oxus River, and was defeated by Chupan's son Hasan near Ghazna. The vizier Rukn al-Din Sa'in had traveled with Chupan, leaving Demasq Kaja in effective control at the Ilkhanid court. It was at this time that Abu Sa'id decided to make his move. Using opportunity, on 25 August 1327, Abu Sa'id had one of Chupan's sons, Demasq Kaja, killed, apparently for his activities with a former concubine of Öljaitü's. \n\nHearing this, Chupan marched against Abu Sa'id seeking revenge. he convinced the local religious leader of Simnan, Shaikh 'Ala' al-Daula, to try to negotiate a truce, and then camped near Qazvin. When the shaikh failed, he continued west, with his troops pillaging on the way. Upon reaching Quha, he was a day's journey away from Abu Sa'id's camp, but as night fell, most of his army including Muhammad Beg, uncle of Abu Sa'id deserted him near Ray, taking 30.000 soldier with them, leaving Chupan no choice but to retreat to Herat. Upon reaching Saveh, he sent his wife Sati Beg back to Abu Sa'id. He then traveled in the direction of Tabas, with the intention of finding refuge in Transoxiana. Upon reaching the Murghab River, he changed his mind and headed for Khurasan. He was given a friendly welcome into Herat by the local Kartid ruler, Ghiyath ud-Din. However he was soon strangled to death under orders of Abu Sa'id in 1327. Chupan and his son Chilaun were both killed. As Chupan's friend, Ghiyath ordered that he be killed by strangulation, which was considered an honorable way to die. The Kartid leader then sent one of Chupan's fingers to Abu Sa'id as proof of the deed. Many of Chupan's sons were to also die in the next few years. His daughter soon forced to divorce Hasan Buzurg and marry Abu Sa'id. In compensation, Hasan was awarded former post of Chupan, rising to be new commander-in-chief of Ilkhanid army. \n\nHe was buried in Medina, in the cemetery of Baqi, under the supervision of his daughter Bagdad Katun. \n\nChupan was described as devout Muslim who also against among emirs who opposed Öljeitü's conversion to Shiism.Described by various sources as brave and just, he was also known to sponsor a water canal to Mecca in 1325. Being a fervent Muslim, he also oversaw reconstruction of mosques in Tabriz as well as demolution of churches. Nevertheless, he also protected Mar Yahballaha III.\n\nHe had at least 4 wives, by whom Chupanid dynasty descended. Most of his children were born by unknown spouses. He also named at least two of his sons after his ancestors Chilaun and Sorgan Shira:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880497", "title": "Corleone family", "text": "Corleone family\n\nThe Corleone family is a fictional Sicilian-American organized crime family, and the focus of the novels and films of \"The Godfather\" series. The family was created by Mario Puzo and first appears in his 1969 novel \"The Godfather\". The family is from Corleone, Sicily, Italy, and is based in New York City, U.S. \n\nCompared with the real-life Five Families of organized crime, the Corleone family draws comparisons with the Genovese and Bonanno crime families.\n\nThe Corleone crime family traces its roots to 1920, when Vito Corleone assassinated Little Italy's padrone, Don Fanucci, and took over Fanucci's territory along with fellow criminals Genco Abbandando, Peter Clemenza and Salvatore Tessio. Shortly afterward, he founded the Genco Pura Olive Oil Company as a front for his criminal activities. Around 1925, Vito formally organized the family, with Genco as his consigliere and Clemenza and Tessio as caporegimes. They became the most powerful crime family in New York City after defeating Salvatore Maranzano during the Olive Oil War in the early 1930s. It was during this time that Vito's eldest son, Santino \"Sonny\" Corleone, made his reputation and eventually became a caporegime himself. Upon becoming successful, the family moved to a compound on Long Island.\n\nIn 1945, Don Vito Corleone declines drug baron Virgil \"The Turk\" Sollozzo's narcotics business proposal, and this nearly destroys the family. Sollozzo believed Vito's eldest son Sonny wanted to accept the deal, and he had his men gun down Don Vito outside his office. However, Vito survives and is hospitalized. Sonny takes over as acting Don of the Corleone family. After a second assassination attempt on Don Vito, Sonny has Bruno Tattaglia, son of Don Tattaglia, assassinated. The situation escalates further when Don Vito's youngest son Michael murders both Sollozzo and corrupt police officer Captain McCluskey during a meeting in the Bronx, which forces Michael to flee to Sicily. This triggers the Five Families War, during which Sonny is assassinated. After Sonny's death, the still-recuperating Don Vito makes peace with the other families, realizing that his true enemy is Emilio Barzini, who wanted to crush the Corleones to become the most powerful mafia don in New York City.\n\nAfter Don Vito's semi-retirement, followed by his fatal heart attack, Michael succeeds his father as the Don. Michael carries out Sonny's plan to murder the other New York City Mafia bosses along with Moe Greene, who stood in the way of the family's business interests in Las Vegas, Salvatore Tessio, who betrayed Michael for Barzini, and Carlo Rizzi, who was involved in the murder of Sonny. Following this, Michael moves the family to Lake Tahoe. Michael attempts to legitimize the Corleone business, but is pulled back into crime after a failed attempt on his life by Miami gangster and Corleone business partner, Hyman Roth, attempting to halt the takeover of Las Vegas. Roth is eventually murdered on Michael's orders. Michael's older brother, Fredo Corleone, was ensnared by Roth to conspire against the Corleones. At their mother's funeral, Michael sanctions the assassination of his surviving older brother.\n\nIn \"The Godfather Part III\", by 1979, the activities of the Corleone family were nearly completely legitimate. Michael Corleone sold their interests in all casinos and hotels and invested only in businesses unconnected to Mafia activities. The underboss of the Corleone's criminal enterprise, Joey Zasa, resentful of the reforms, aligned with aging kingpin Don Altobello, and together orchestrated an assassination attempt on Michael Corleone during a meeting in Atlantic City.\n\nWhen in 1980, Michael appointed his nephew and Sonny's illegitimate son, Vincent Mancini, to be his successor as Don of the Corleone family, he allowed him to change his name to Vincent Corleone. In return for this, Michael ordered him to end his relationship with Michael's daughter (and Vincent's cousin) Mary Corleone. Vincent assured him that he would.\n\nUnder Michael's mentoring, Vincent is remade into a new man - wiser, patient, and aware of his status as the new Don. However, he retained a violent streak, as evidenced in his first act as Don. With Michael's tacit blessing, he ordered the deaths of Gilday, Keinszig, and Lucchesi in one mass slaughter. However, Mary was killed in a failed assassination attempt on Michael. Vincent quickly and ruthlessly killed Mosca, the assassin responsible. Despite this, Michael still dies alone and despondent after an unknown period of time.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880500", "title": "Stragari", "text": "Stragari\n\nStragari () is a rural settlement within the City of Kragujevac.\n\nLocated at 250 m above sea level, it lies 30 km northwest of Kragujevac and about 120 km south of state capital, Belgrade. It lies on the outfall of Srebrnica river intо Jasenica River, on the northeastern side of the Rudnik Mountain (highest peak - Cvijić's peak, 1,132 m).\n\nStragari is the place of one of the biggest asbestos mines in Europe.\n\nIn 1425 Stefan Lazarević held a major meeting in Srebrenica because of the question on who would succeed him to the Serb throne (he had no children), he chose Đurađ Branković.\nStragari is mentioned for the first time in Turkish census documentation in 1476 as Strgar. At that time, Stragari had only 39 households. From 1717 to 1739 the town saw a large influx of Austrians. In monastery Voljavča near Stragari in 1805, the First Serbian government (called \"Praviteljstvujušči sovjet\") held their first sessions. It received the status of town in 1922. \n\nFrom May 2002, Stragari (along with 10 other settlements), formed one of five city municipalities which consisted the City of Kragujevac. However, the City municipality of Stragari was dissolved in March 2008.\n\nThis is an agricultural area and farmers are producing fruit, vegetables and breeding cattle. The main industrial plant is Stragarit (paper industry). Stragari has the preconditions necessary for development of a tourism industry.\n\nThe spa \"Voljavča\" and the monastery with the same name are located there as well as good facilities for recreation activities and hunting.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880503", "title": "KRVN (AM)", "text": "KRVN (AM)\n\nKRVN 880 is an AM radio station in Lexington, Nebraska and serving most of the rural central and western part of the state.\n\nThe station features agricultural news programming during the day and classic country at night.\n\nKRVN is one of two 50,000-watt stations in Nebraska, the other being KFAB in Omaha. It is the second-most powerful station in the state; unlike KFAB, it is not a clear-channel, Class A station, but it does operate on a clear-channel frequency, on which WCBS in New York City is the dominant station. KRVN broadcasts from a four-tower antenna array located in the middle of cornfields near Holdrege, Nebraska. KRVN is Nebraska's primary entry point station for the Emergency Alert System.\n\nDue to its transmitter power and central Nebraska's flat land (with near-perfect ground conductivity), KRVN boasts one of the largest coverage areas in the Western United States. During the day, tower #3 radiates the transmitter's full power to almost all of Nebraska's densely populated area, as well as more than half of Kansas and northeastern Colorado. At night, power is fed to all four towers to provide a directional signal aimed to the west to protect WCBS. This results in the second-largest city within its coverage area, Kearney, only getting a grade B signal; a translator at 106.9 FM is used to make up for this shortfall. Even with this arrangement, it is able to cover western Nebraska, northwestern Kansas, northeastern Colorado, and most of the Dakotas.\n\nKRVN is a member of the Nebraska Cornhuskers radio network.\n\nThe KRVN network is unique in that it is owned and operated by a cooperative of farmers and ranchers, the Nebraska Rural Radio Association. It was founded in 1948, opening its first station, KRVN, in 1951. It was originally located at 1010 AM, broadcasting with 10,000 watts. In 1972, it moved to its current frequency and boosted its transmitting power to 50,000 watts; the lower dial position and stronger transmitter enabled it to serve more of central Nebraska's farmers.\n\nThe NRRA launched a sister music station with a similar callsign, KRVN-FM (River 93.1), in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880512", "title": "Salvelinus curilus", "text": "Salvelinus curilus\n\nSalvelinus curilus is a species of anadromous fish in the salmon family. It inhabits the waters of Russian Far East in the Kurile Islands, Sakhalin, Primorye and also Korea and Japan. It has mostly been considered a subspecies of the Dolly Varden trout \"Salvelinus malma\", with the name \"Salvelinus malma krascheninnikova\", and referred to as the southern Dolly Varden or Asian southern form Dolly Varden trout.\n\nThis species has a mitochondrial DNA lineage clearly distinct from that of the northern Dolly Varden \"S. malma\", and the latter is closer to the Arctic char \"Salvelinus alpinus\". The southern and northern Dolly Varden also have clear karyological differences. Nevertheless, there has been gene exchange between the southern and northern Dolly Varden populations.\n"}
{"id": "1880521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880521", "title": "¡Ay, caramba!", "text": "¡Ay, caramba!\n\n¡Ay, caramba! (), from the Spanish interjections \"ay\" (denoting surprise or pain) and \"caramba\" (a euphemism for ), is an exclamation used in Spanish to denote surprise (usually positive). The term \"caramba\" is also used in Portuguese. \"¡Ay, caramba!\" is used as a catchphrase of Bart Simpson from the animated sitcom \"The Simpsons\".\n\nThe exclamation became associated with the Madrid flamenco dancer and singer La Caramba in the 1780s. Her headdress of brightly colored ribbons became known as a \"caramba\".\n\nThe fictional character Bart Simpson from the animated sitcom \"The Simpsons\" (voiced by Nancy Cartwright) used the phrase \"¡Ay, caramba!\" (pronounced with an American accent) when surprised. He said it first in the 1988 episode \"The Art Museum\". It became one of his most notable catchphrases, further popularizing the phrase in modern pop culture. For example, in the episode \"Selma's Choice\", Bart, Lisa, and their Aunt Selma approach a very popular ride at Duff Gardens. Upon seeing the exceptionally long line for the ride, Bart exclaims, \"¡Ay, caramba!\". \"¡Ay, caramba!\" were Bart's first words.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880527", "title": "Keda", "text": "Keda\n\nKeda or KEDA may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880528", "title": "Samuel Holt", "text": "Samuel Holt\n\nSamuel Edward Grattan Holt (3 September 1880 – 18 April 1929) was an Irish politician.\n\nHolt was born in Coole, County Westmeath, in 1880, the fifth child of a family of ten of David Holt, from Killina, Carbury Co. Kildare, a constable in the Royal Irish Constabulary, and Agnes McColl. The family, which was Church of Ireland, later moved to Charlestown /Jamestown Co. Roscommon and then into Carrick On Shannon town, County Leitrim. In 1910, Holt married Honoria Devaney, from Toomore, Boher Co. Roscommon In Longford Cathedral.\n\nHe was assistant clerk and later clerk of Carrick-on-Shannon Poor Law Union and Rural District Council.\n\nHolt was member of the 5th Battalion, 3rd Brigade, 3rd Western Division of the Irish Republic Army, he was arrested in May 1916 and sentenced to death, sentence which was reprieved and sentenced to Frongoch. He was \nalso interned in Ballykinlar camp during the Irish War of Independence. He was Sinn Féin director of elections in Co. Roscommon for Count George Plunkett and also in the 1923 Irish general election.\n\nHe was first elected to Dáil Éireann as a Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) for the Leitrim–Sligo constituency at the 1925 by-election caused by the resignation of Thomas Carter of Cumann na nGaedheal. He was re-elected at the June 1927 and September 1927 general elections as a Fianna Fáil TD. He died during the 6th Dáil in 1929. The by-election caused by his death was held on 7 June 1929 and was won by Seán Mac Eoin of Cumann na nGaedhael.\n\nHolt died in Dublin on 18 April 1929 of a fever, less than a fortnight after the death of a daughter, Doreen, who was aged seven, also of a fever. He is buried in Jamestown cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "1880535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880535", "title": "Keda, Georgia", "text": "Keda, Georgia\n\nKeda ( ) is a small town in Ajaria, an autonomous republic in the southwestern Georgia, 42 km southeast to the regional capital Batumi. Keda District also comprises 60 villages adjoining to the town. Its area is 452 km². According to the 2014 census, its population is 16,760.\n\nIn the district are several historical monuments, particularly the medieval Orthodox churches at Makhuntseti, Zesopeli and Namonastrevi, and the bridges of Tsonarisi and Dandalo.\n\nKeda Municipality is governed locally (gamgebeli). The Head of Keda Municipality is Irakli Baramidze.\n\nKeda is served by minibus from the City of Batumi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880545", "title": "Karate gi", "text": "Karate gi\n\nKarategi (空手着 or 空手衣) is the formal Japanese name for the traditional uniform used for Karate practice and competition.\n\nA karategi is somewhat similar to a judogi (柔道着 or 柔道衣, \"Judo uniform\") as it shares a common origin; however, the material and cut of the uniform is generally much lighter and looser fitting. The heaviest of Karategi are only compared to some judogi at . Because of the nature of Karate training which emphasizes striking, kicking and a more limited range of standing throws compared to Judo the karategi has evolved in a manner that maximizes mobility and speed without the extremely coarse and strong fabric required for grappling and throwing found in Judo. They are made from smooth cotton which may be brushed or ribbed for unrestricted movement and added comfort. Reinforced stitching is common, as to compensate for the stresses put on the gi.\n\nInferior karategi are often cut from a light fabric similar to that of a summer shirt. These karategi are easily ripped, and tend to adhere to the practitioner's skin, creating some discomfort after any extensive perspiration is experienced. Such materials yield a karategi no heavier than the .\n\nMost quality karategi are cut from a light canvas style cloth because of its ability to stand up to considerable amounts of rigorous application and abuse without restricting the mobility of the karateka. Typically, such karategi weigh at least .\n\nThe weight of the material helps Karateka determine how rigid the suit will be. or cotton canvas is standard, although some manufacturers offer materials. It is not unusual for a martial artist to feel better cooled when using a heavier karategi, compared to the cheaper karategi. Naturally, heavier suits will be more rigid. This rigidity increases ventilation within the suit. The heavier gi also has a more pronounced sound when a move is executed. Despite the extra weight of the heavier fabrics, most experienced practitioners prefer them due to their durability, and the ability of the thicker fabric to wick away perspiration.\n\nThe three main cuts of karate gi are Kata, European and Japanese. The Japanese cut has short sleeves and trousers for less restriction. This cut also has a longer lapel that prevents it from riding up over the belt (obi). The Kata cut is very rare. It has even shorter sleeves and is chosen more for aesthetic appeal. European Cut has longer sleeves and trouser. The lapel is shorter. This cut again is chosen for aesthetic appeal. Karate uniforms come in a wide array of colours. Most Karateka still wear white. Some clubs use a system of differing colours to differentiate students from instructors.\nDifferent styles of Karate have slightly different uniforms though all share the same basic design, differing only in the lengths of sleeves, legs and the skirt of the uwagi (jacket). Many karateka tend to wear their obi (belt) much longer than judoka and other martial artists.\n\nKarategi are sometimes worn to practice other arts, such as jujutsu, when the practitioners are young and can expect to grow out of the gi in a few years; in this case, their reduced durability in comparison to judogi is less of a factor, and buying karategi until the practitioner stops growing is more cost-effective.\n\nThe karate gi appears to have been developed from the Judo uniform. When Gichin Funakoshi demonstrated karate in Japan at the \"Kodokan\", he still wore a traditional judo gi.\n\n\"GI\" is a recognised word in both the official scrabble dictionary and the Merriam Webster Second edition dictionary.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880546", "title": "The Godfather Saga", "text": "The Godfather Saga\n\nThe Godfather Saga is a 1977 American television miniseries that combines \"The Godfather\" and \"The Godfather Part II\" into one film. It originally aired on NBC over four consecutive nights (one three-hour segment and three two-hour segments) in November 1977. \"The Godfather Saga\" is also known as The Godfather: The Complete Novel for Television, The Godfather: A Novel for Television, The Godfather Novella, The Godfather: 1901-1959 - The Complete Epic, and The Godfather Epic (on HBO). The television version was the basis for a shorter, 1981 video release known as The Godfather 1902–1959: The Complete Epic. Following the release of \"The Godfather Part III\" in 1990, a third unified version was released to video in 1992 entitled The Godfather Trilogy: 1901–1980.\n\nFrancis Ford Coppola asked his editor Barry Malkin to make a seven-hour version for television; Coppola reportedly did this project to raise money for \"Apocalypse Now\", which was severely over-budget at the time. The resulting film was in chronological order. \"The Godfather Part II\" had cut back and forth between scenes in the early 1900s and the late 1950s, and was therefore both a prequel and a sequel to \"The Godfather\". Malkin also toned down the violence, sex, and language for a television audience.\n\nThe television film incorporated additional footage not included in the original films, including Don Fanucci being attacked by street thugs, Vito Corleone's first encounter with Hyman Roth, Vito killing two of the mafiosi who worked for Don Ciccio and were instrumental in his family's death, Michael Corleone's reunion with his father after his return from Sicily, Sonny Corleone's taking charge of the family after his father is severely wounded, and Michael's vengeance upon Fabrizio for killing Apollonia. The previously deleted scenes totaled almost 75 minutes.\n\nHal Erickson summarized the results as follows, \"While this rearrangement was reasonably coherent, the rhythm and pacing of the original theatrical versions of the two films was severely damaged. The inclusion of scenes previously removed from the theatrical prints also stretched out what was already an overlong project. Even allowing for the achievement of pulling off this gargantuan editing assignment, \"The Godfather Saga\" is a lumpy affair which seems to stop and start at irregular intervals and never truly picks up momentum.\"\n\nAccording to the entry in Les Brown's \"Encyclopedia of Television\", the Nielsen ratings for the special were supposedly not as high as expected, possibly because both films had already aired (albeit separately) on NBC in previous years.\n\nOn March 3, 2012, the American cable television channel AMC marked the 40th anniversary of the original theatrical release of \"The Godfather\" by re-broadcasting \"The Godfather Saga\". It marked the first time the \"Saga\" was broadcast in high definition. This showing also reinstated the violence that had previously been removed for its original broadcast.\n\n\"The Godfather 1902–1959: The Complete Epic\" is a reduced, 386 minute version of \"The Godfather Saga\" (434 minutes) that was released to video in 1981. Unlike the Saga, which presented in four segments (each with opening and closing credits), the Epic is presented as a single segment. Lucia Bozzola wrote of this version, \"With the freedom of home video, \"The Complete Epic\" reinstated the violence that had been edited for television; free of commercial breaks, the narrative drive of Part I was mostly restored, but the impact of Part II was still muted by the separation of Vito's rise from Michael's descent.\" In January 2016, HBO aired the epic in its uncut and uncensored format; later making it available on its streaming platforms. The HBO showing contained most of the known deleted scenes, thereby lengthening the runtime of the Epic from its video release. This HBO version carries the title \"Mario Puzo's The Godfather: The Complete Epic 1901-1959\" which has a runtime of 423 minutes.\n\nFollowing the release of \"The Godfather Part III\" in 1990, Coppola, Barry Malkin, and Walter Murch edited the three \"Godfather\" movies into chronological order to make the film \"The Godfather Trilogy: 1901–1980\". As had the earlier compilations, this film incorporated scenes that are not part of the theatrical releases. It was released on VHS and laserdisc in 1992; it has not been released on DVD, and is now rare. The total run time for this version is 583 minutes (9 hours, 43 minutes). There were reviews of this version of the film that were favorable. A \"Time\" review reads, \"This trilogy has a novelistic density, a rueful, unhurried lyricism and a depth that, singly, the films could not achieve. Altogether glorious.\"\n\nSeveral additional scenes not shown in theaters were added to the \"Saga\", \"Epic\", and \"Trilogy\".\n\n\nThe following scenes are listed chronologically.\n\n\nTo date, this version of The Godfather Saga has never been released to DVD, Blu-Ray, or 4K UHD disc. Online, titled as The Godfather Epic and running 7 hours and 3 minutes, was available to watch through Amazon. However, it is currently unavailable to purchase.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880547", "title": "John M. Stahl", "text": "John M. Stahl\n\nJohn Malcolm Stahl (January 21, 1886 – January 12, 1950) was an American film director and producer.\n\nHe was born Jacob Morris Strelitsky in Baku (Azerbaijan) to an eastern European Jewish family. When he was a child, his family left the Russian Empire and moved to the United States, settling in New York City. At a young age he took the name John Malcolm Stahl and began working, first as a theatre actor and then in the city's growing motion picture industry. He directed his first silent film short in 1913.\n\nIn 1919 he signed on with Louis B. Mayer Pictures in Hollywood. In 1924 he was part of the Mayer team that founded MGM Studios. In 1927, Stahl was one of the thirty-six founding members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. With the industry's transition to talkies and feature-length films, Stahl successfully made the adjustment. From 1927 through 1929 Stahl was an executive at the short-lived independent studio Tiffany Pictures, and renamed the company \"Tiffany-Stahl Productions\".\n\nIn 1930 he joined Universal Pictures where he directed in 1934 the film \"Imitation of Life,\" which was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Picture. The following year, he directed \"Magnificent Obsession\", starring Irene Dunne and Robert Taylor. Both films were later remade in the 1950s by director Douglas Sirk.\n\nJohn Stahl continued to produce and direct major productions as well as filler shorts up to the time of his death. Some of his other notable directorial work was for \"The Keys of the Kingdom\" in 1944 and the 1945 film noir, \"Leave Her to Heaven\" starring Gene Tierney, who was nominated for Best Actress.\n\nStahl died in Hollywood in 1950. He is interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery in Glendale, California.\n\nHe was married to actress and writer Frances Irene Reels from 1918 to her death in 1926, and to actress Roxana McGowan from 1931 to his death. \n\nOn February 8, 1960, for his contributions to the motion pictures industry, Stahl received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6546 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880560", "title": "Darrel Stinson", "text": "Darrel Stinson\n\nDarrel Stinson (born June 5, 1945) is a retired politician in British Columbia, Canada. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Okanagan—Shuswap from 1993 until the dissolution of the House of Commons of Canada for the 2006 federal election, and was a member of the Conservative Party of Canada parliamentary caucus.\n\nHe was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, but grew up on a ranch. He left school at a young age to work, but returned later in life to get his high school diploma. He eventually became a local businessman in the BC interior and also worked as a mining consultant and prospector.\n\nHe was first elected as a Reform Party MP in the 1993 election. He became recognized for the large cowboy hat he normally wore and for his outspoken conservatism.\n\nIn his first term, he was often the centre of controversy. He was criticized for suggesting the best way to prevent spousal abuse was to give women handguns. After opposition MP John Cannis heckled him as a racist in the House of Commons, he replied \"Do you have the fortitude or the gonads to stand up and come across here and say that to me, you son of a bitch?\" Eventually the Speaker chided both men for unparliamentary language. Later that same year, after Progressive Conservative leader Jean Charest called him a bigot in a heated exchange, Stinson replied that Charest was a \"fat little, chubby, little sucker.\" In 1999, he was accused of challenging Liberal MP Steve Mahoney to fight.\n\nHe was one of a handful of Reform MPs to oppose the idea of a United Alternative, being unwilling to sacrifice Reform principles to facilitate a merger with the PC Party. He eventually agreed to the creation of the Canadian Alliance (CA) with elements of the PC Party, and became a member of that party when it was created. He backed Stockwell Day in the 2000 CA leadership election, and was given a number of critics positions when Day became leader.\n\nStinson was much angered by the Liberal victory in the 2000 election and attended the inaugural convention of the Alberta Independence Party along with fellow CA MP Myron Thompson. This flirtation with Alberta separatism sparked controversy, and Stinson was moved by Day to the backbenches. Stinson and Thompson were soon after at the centre of another controversy when it emerged they had convinced Day to hire a private investigator to investigate Liberals.\n\nStinson remained one of Day's strongest supporters, firmly against the Alliance members who tried to oust him. Stinson was reportedly one of the MPs most firmly opposed to allowing the dissident MPs back into the party after Day resigned.\n\nHe continued his opposition to any merger with the Tories, and in 2003 was the only Canadian Alliance MP to vote against Stephen Harper's merger plan in a caucus meeting, but he later came to support the new party.\n\nSince 2004, he has been battling bladder cancer, and his frequent absences from parliament played an important role in the finely-balanced minority government. In the crucial May 19, 2005, vote on the Canadian budget, the 152-152 tie was broken by the Speaker voting in favour, ensuring the continuity of the government. As Stinson was undergoing surgery at the time, a Liberal MP agreed to sit out the vote as a courtesy. Due to his illness he retired from parliament following the fall of the Paul Martin government on November 28, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "1880570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880570", "title": "More Like the Moon", "text": "More Like the Moon\n\nWilco's More Like the Moon EP (also called \"Bridge\" and \"Australian\" EP) was originally released as a bonus disc to the Australian version of \"Yankee Hotel Foxtrot\". The band ended up releasing the EP via the band's website in 2003 to any who had bought \"Yankee Hotel Foxtrot\". The EP features an alternate version of \"Kamera\", four previously unreleased songs, and an earlier take of \"Handshake Drugs\", a song that was retooled for \"A Ghost Is Born\".\n\nAll songs written by Wilco.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880590", "title": "Arpa Ke'un", "text": "Arpa Ke'un\n\nArpa Ke'un, also known as Arpa Khan or Gavon or Gawon (; died 1336), was an Ilkhan (1335–1336) during the disintegration of the Mongol state in Persia. \n\nNot much is known on Arpa's earlier life, except that he was a member of the house of Tolui. His lineage traced back to Ariq Böke, who was the youngest brother of Möngke, Kublai and Hulagu.His grandfather Mingqan Ke'un was a son of Malik Temür and Emegen Khatun and arrived in Iran during reign of Öljaitü in summer of 1306.\n\nHe was nominated to the throne by Abu Sa'id's vizier Ghiyas al-Din and was elected 5 days later with regnal title Sultan Muiz al-Dunya wa'l Din Mahmud on Karabakh. Instead of a golden crown, he had a felt and simple waistband as regaila. Almost immediately he had to deal with an invasion by Özbeg of the Golden Horde. He defeated the invasion, and furthermore used it as a pretext for executing Abu Sa'id's widow Bagdad Katun, accusing her of poisoning Abu Sa'id and allying with Özbeg He afterwards married Sati Beg, Abu Sa'id's sister and widow of Chupan in order to legitimize his rule. Another execution was of Mahmudshah Inju, former ruler of Fars province in March 1336 (he was imprisoned by Abu Sa'id earlier because of his attempt on ilkhan's life). He also gave Shaykh Hasan the overall command of armies.\n\nHe was characterized as not a practicing Muslim and more in favor of Genghis Khan's Yasa, mostly ignoring laws of Muslim khans like Ghazan and Abu Sa'id. His rule was not accepted by a part of Oirats, whose leader and the governor of Baghdad - Ali Padshah was an uncle of Abu Sa'id and had his own designs on throne. Claiming Abu Sa'id's wife Dilshad Khatun was still pregnant, he raised Musa, the grandson of Baydu as rightful heir to the throne. Oirat traditional rivalry with Ariq Böke's line could also be a factor in this rebellion.\n\nAfter securing Shaykh Hasan's neutrality, Ali Padshah went on to battle Arpa on Jaghatu plains near Maraga on 29 April 1336. Arpa's army were led by 60 emirs, notably Hajji Taghay (son of Sutay, Governor of Diyar Bakr), Uyghur commander Ögrünch, Torut (a son of Nari and relative of Narin Taghay), Ortuq-Shah (son of Alghu) and Chupan's son Sorgan Sira. However, soon some emirs defected to the side of Ali Padshah, such as Mahmud b. Essen Qutlugh and Sultanshah Nikruz. Battle was a defeat for Arpa and soon after he was captured in Sultaniya and killed on 15 May 1336 by Mahmudshah's son, Amir Jalal al-Din Mas'ud Shah.\n"}
{"id": "1880591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880591", "title": "Cry, the Beloved Country", "text": "Cry, the Beloved Country\n\nCry, the Beloved Country is a novel by Alan Paton, published in 1948. American publisher Bennett Cerf remarked at that year's meeting of the American Booksellers Association that there had been \"only three novels published since the first of the year that were worth reading… \"Cry, The Beloved Country\", \"The Ides of March\", and \"The Naked and the Dead\".\"\n\nTwo cinema adaptations of the book have been made, the first in 1951 and the second in 1995. The novel was also adapted as a musical called \"Lost in the Stars\" (1949), with a book by the American writer Maxwell Anderson and music composed by the German emigre Kurt Weill.\n\nDuring the apartheid in South Africa, the separation of Blacks and Whites grew out of their fears of one another. \nIn the remote village of Ndotsheni, in the Natal province of eastern South Africa, the Reverend Stephen Kumalo receives a letter from a fellow minister summoning him to Johannesburg. He is needed there, the letter says, to help his sister, Gertrude, who the letter says has fallen ill. \n\nKumalo undertakes the difficult and expensive journey to the city in the hopes of aiding Gertrude and of finding his son, Absalom, who traveled to Johannesburg from Ndotsheni and never returned. In Johannesburg, Kumalo is warmly welcomed by Msimangu, the priest who sent him the letter, and given comfortable lodging by Mrs. Lithebe, a Christian woman who feels that helping others is her duty.\n\nKumalo visits Gertrude, who is now a prostitute and liquor seller, and persuades her to come back to Ndotsheni with her young son.\n\nA more difficult quest follows, when Kumalo and Msimangu begin searching the labyrinthine metropolis of Johannesburg for Absalom. They visit Kumalo's brother, John, who has become a successful businessman and politician, and he directs them to the factory where his son and Absalom once worked together.\n\nOne clue leads to another, and as Kumalo travels from place to place, he begins to see the gaping racial and economic divisions that are threatening to split his country. Eventually, Kumalo discovers that his son has spent time in a reformatory and that he has gotten a girl pregnant.\n\nMeanwhile, the newspapers announce that Arthur Jarvis, a prominent white crusader for racial justice, has been murdered in his home by a gang of burglars. Kumalo and Msimangu learn that the police are looking for Absalom, and Kumalo's worst suspicions are confirmed when Absalom is arrested for the murder. Absalom confesses to the crime but states that two others, including John's son, Matthew, aided him and that he did not intend to murder Jarvis.\n\nWith the help of friends, Kumalo obtains a lawyer for Absalom and attempts to understand what his son has become. John, however, makes arrangements for his own son's defense, even though this split will worsen Absalom’s case. When Kumalo tells Absalom's pregnant girlfriend what has happened, she is saddened by the news, but she joyfully agrees to his proposal that she marry his son and return to Ndotsheni as Kumalo's daughter-in-law.\n\nMeanwhile, in the hills above Ndotsheni, Arthur Jarvis' father, James Jarvis, tends his bountiful land and hopes for rain. The local police bring him news of his son's death, and he leaves immediately for Johannesburg with his wife. In an attempt to come to terms with what has happened, Jarvis reads his son's articles and speeches on social inequality and begins a radical reconsideration of his own prejudices.\n\nHe and Kumalo meet for the first time by accident, and after Kumalo has recovered from his shock, he expresses sadness and regret for Jarvis' loss. Both men attend Absalom’s trial, a fairly straightforward process that ends with the death penalty for Absalom and an acquittal for the two other defendants. \n\nKumalo arranges for Absalom to marry the girl who bears his child, and they bid farewell. The morning of his departure, Kumalo rouses his new family to bring them back to Ndotsheni, only to find that Gertrude has disappeared.\n\nKumalo is now deeply aware of how his people have lost the tribal structure that once held them together and returns to his village troubled by the situation. It turns out that James Jarvis has been having similar thoughts. \n\nArthur Jarvis' young son befriends Kumalo. As the young boy and the old man become acquainted, James Jarvis becomes increasingly involved with helping the struggling village. He donates milk at first, and then makes plans for a dam and hires an agricultural expert to demonstrate newer, less devastating farming techniques.\n\nWhen Jarvis’ wife dies, Kumalo and his congregation send a wreath to express their sympathy. Just as the bishop is on the verge of transferring Kumalo, Jarvis sends a note of thanks for the wreath and offers to build the congregation a new church, and Kumalo is permitted to stay in his parish.\n\nOn the evening before his son's execution, Kumalo goes into the mountains to await the appointed time in solitude. On the way, he encounters Jarvis, and the two men speak of the village, of lost sons, and of Jarvis' bright young grandson, whose innocence and honesty have impressed both men. When Kumalo is alone, he weeps for his son’s death and clasps his hands in prayer as dawn breaks over the valley.\n\n\n\"Cry, the Beloved Country\" is a social protest against the structures of the society that would later give rise to apartheid. Paton attempts to create an unbiased and objective view of the dichotomies it entails: he depicts whites as affected by \"native crime\" while blacks suffer from social instability and moral issues due to the breakdown of the tribal system. It shows many of the problems with South Africa such as the degrading of the land reserved for the natives, which is sometimes considered to be the main theme, the disintegration of the tribal community, native crime, and the flight to urban areas.\n\nAnother prevalent theme in \"Cry, the Beloved Country\" is the detrimental effects of fear on the characters and society of South Africa as indicated in the following quotation from the narrator in Chapter 12:\n\nPaton makes frequent use of literary and linguistic devices such as microcosms, intercalary chapters and dashes instead of quotation marks for dialogue to indicate the start of speech acts to portray the devastating conditions in South Africa.\n\nThe novel is filled with Biblical references and allusions. The most evident are the names Paton gives to the characters. Absalom, the son of Stephen Kumalo, is named for the son of King David, who rose against his father in rebellion. Also, in the New Testament Book of Acts, Stephen was a martyr who underwent death by stoning rather than stop declaring the things he believed. The Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts are written to Theophilus, which is Greek for \"friend of God\".\n\nIn the novel, Absalom requests that his son be named Peter, the name of one of Jesus's disciples. Among Peter's better-known traits is a certain impulsiveness; also, after Christ's arrest, he denied knowing Jesus three times, and later wept in grief over this. After the resurrection, Peter renewed his commitment to Christ and to spreading the Gospel. All that suggests Absalom's final repentance and his commitment to the faith of his father.\n\nIn another allusion, Arthur Jarvis is described as having a large collection of books on Abraham Lincoln, and the writings of Lincoln are featured several times in the novel.\n\nPaton describes Arthur's son as having characteristics similar to his when he was a child, which may allude to the resurrection of Christ.\n\nIn 1951, the novel was adapted into a motion picture of the same name, directed by Zoltan Korda. Paton wrote the screenplay with John Howard Lawson, who was left out of the original credits because he was blacklisted in Hollywood for refusing to give information to the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). Kumalo was played by Canada Lee, Jarvis by Charles Carson, and Msimangu by Sidney Poitier.\n\nIn 1983, a historic stage adaptation was performed by the Capital Players theatre group at the Moth Hall in Gaborone, Botswana. The country was at that time one of the leading \"frontline states\" to apartheid South Africa and a centre for artistic activity that often stood in quiet opposition to the racist regime just across the border. The premiere was attended by Paton himself, who had travelled from Natal, as well as Botswana's then-President Quett Masire (with political acumen, the director had arranged for the first performance to take place on the President's birthday). School students from across the country were bussed to the capital to see the production.\n\nAnother film version was released in 1995, directed by Darrell Roodt. James Earl Jones played the Reverend Kumalo and Richard Harris filled the role of Jarvis.\n\nA stage version by the South African playwright Roy Sargeant was developed in early 2003; it was first staged at the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown, Eastern Cape on 27 June 2003 and at the Artscape Theatre in Cape Town on 8 July 2003. The director was Heinrich Reisenhofer. The script, together with notes and activities for school use, was published in 2006 by Oxford University Press Southern Africa.\n\nIn 1949, the composer Kurt Weill, in collaboration with the American writer Maxwell Anderson (book and lyrics), composed a musical based on the book called \"Lost in the Stars\". The original Broadway production opened on 30 October 1949 at the Music Box Theatre and starred Todd Duncan and Inez Matthews. It ran for 273 performances before closing on 1 July 1950. It was made into a movie, starring Brock Peters and Melba Moore, released in 1974.\n\n\"Lost in the Stars\" is the last work Weill completed before his death in 1950. Although he was influenced by spirituals, jazz and blues, Weill's distinctive and original style shines throughout the score.\n\nIsraeli contratenor David D'Or performed in a stage version at the Israeli National Theater (\"Habima Theater\") in 2004. \"Maariv\" in its review wrote: \"D'or's outstanding voice is meant for great parts. His voice and presence embraces the audience, who showed their appreciation by a lengthy standing ovation.\"\n\nIn August 2012, the Glimmerglass Opera of New York produced the work, in conjunction with Cape Town Opera, directed by Tazewell Thompson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880596", "title": "Menomena", "text": "Menomena\n\nMenomena is an indie rock band from Portland, Oregon, United States, made up of Justin Harris and Danny Seim. Both members of the band share singing duties and frequently swap instruments while recording. In concert, Seim plays drums while Harris swaps between a number of instruments.\n\nMenomena began as a side project of Seim's solo project Lackthereof.\n\nThe band formed in late 2000, when Brent Knopf graduated from Dartmouth College and returned to Portland to collaborate with Harris and Seim.\n\nThe name \"Menomena\" was chosen for \"the way it rolls off the tongue, sexually, or something\" and has no specific meaning, although it is often assumed to refer to the Piero Umiliani song \"Mah Nà Mah Nà\", a staple of \"The Muppet Show\". In an audio clip from SpotDJ, Knopf sarcastically stated that the band name was a combination of the words \"Men\" and \"Phenomena.\" It is Greek for \"what remains.\"\n\nMenomena played their first show on July 20th, 2001, at The Meow Meow, a now-defunct all ages venue in Portland. The trio opened with a cover version of \"The Abandoned Hospital Ship\" by The Flaming Lips.\n\nShortly after, they joined the roster of High Road Touring, a San Francisco-based booking agency. For their first U.S. tour in 2004, Menomena drove a 1977 Dodge Sportsman RV. The aging vehicle suffered many breakdowns along the way. Knopf detailed these issues in an interview in \"Spin\": \"Systems that failed (and had to be replaced) during the tour included the following: tires, muffler, brake, master cylinder, exhaust manifold, windshield wipers, horn, side-view mirrors (both fell off). Oh, and did I mention that there were two fires? Not one. Two. This vehicle promptly earned the moniker 'RV Danger.'\" RV Danger (most likely a reference to Seattle band Harvey Danger) was later immortalized in a tour poster illustrated by Tyler Stout, who has collaborated with the band on numerous occasions. Other notable tours in Menomena's early career were with Gang of Four, The National, and The Long Winters.\n\nAfter several releases and national tours, Menomena signed with Barsuk Records in August 2006. The band still maintains a relationship with their original label, FILMguerrero. It was stated that FILMguerrero will continue be involved in their back catalog and possibly with future vinyl releases.\n\nMenomena signed a contract with German record label City Slang, to release their album \"Friend and Foe\" across Europe on August 31, 2007. The band toured Europe twice that year, and their adventures were extensively chronicled by Seim in a blog for Portland-based website \"Local Cut\".\n\nAfter giving away several different homemade demo CD-R recordings at local shows, Knopf, Harris, and Seim stuck with the DIY aesthetic of their early demos by recording their first album themselves. The result was their nine-song debut, \"I Am the Fun Blame Monster!\" (an anagram for \"The First Menomena Album\"), which was self-released on May 20, 2003. The album was elaborately packaged in an 80-page flipbook that Seim designed and individually hand-assembled while working at Kinko's.\n\nA friend advised the band to mail a copy of their album to Pitchfork Media, a popular music website that Seim \"had never heard of\" at the time. Several months later, Pitchfork gave the album an 8.7/10 rating, and placed it in the \"Best New Music\" section. The band continued to assemble the flipbooks by hand and distribute them with the help of online retailer CD Baby until late 2004, when the album was released nationwide by FILMguerrero, a Portland-based independent record label.\n\nThe song \"Strongest Man in the World\" is featured on the soundtrack to the film \"Paranoid Park\", which was not only set and filmed in Portland, but also directed by fellow Rip City resident Gus Van Sant. Danny Seim has written about his youth involvement in Portland's skate culture for soundcheckmagazine.com.\n\nOn November 8, 2005, Menomena released \"Under an Hour\", an album of instrumental music written for and performed with Monster Squad, an experimental dance company based in Portland. The release consists of only three tracks, each of which is over seventeen minutes in length. \"Stylus Magazine\" gave the album a somewhat lukewarm \"B-\" and described it as, \"…an interesting view into a band that continues to evolve without really throwing down any breadcrumbs for them or us to follow.\"\n\nMenomena released their third album (and first via Barsuk Records) on January 23, 2007. As with their first two releases, \"Friend and Foe\" was entirely produced, recorded, and mixed by the band. It received relative critical acclaim—while some websites such as \"Lost at Sea\" praised the album for its offbeat rhythmic structure and creative use of melody, others such as \"PopMatters\" criticized it for presenting a sense of feigned maturity. Pitchfork gave the album an 8.5/10 and again placed it in the \"Best New Music\" section, calling it, \"…The first great indie rock record of the new year.\"\nTo celebrate the release of the album, Harris assembled a 25-member choir and taught them the various vocal layers of the new material with the help of his mother Diane, a trained opera singer. The choir was made up of other Portland-based bands and artists, including The Helio Sequence, 31Knots, Nick Jaina, Pseudosix, Dat'r, Boy Eats Drum Machine, Corrina Repp, Miss Murgatroid, prussia, and several other of Harris' close friends. The \"Friend and Foe\" CD release show was held at Portland's Crystal Ballroom on January 28, 2007.\n\nThe CD and LP (the latter was released in August 2007 by FILMguerrero) features an intricate packaging layout consisting of Die-cut shapes, decoder rings, and hidden messages. It was designed by Knopf and illustrated by cult graphic novelist/cartoonist Craig Thompson, of \"Blankets\" fame. Thompson's artwork for \"Friend and Foe\" was nominated for a Grammy Award for \"Best Recording Package.\"\n\nDanny Seim stated in an October 2008 interview that a new Menomena album was tentatively expected to debut in the beginning of 2009. \"In a perfect world, we would have been done with a new record. Fall ’08 would have been great. But then that's moved to January ’09 … we hadn’t seen one another and we’re seeing each other for some European dates, and a festival date here and there. We’re moving on a U2 time frame. ...We have a ton of material to use and we have to structure the stuff, pick up instruments and find songs. I’d love to say January ’09 but maybe I just like the way those words sound.\"\n\nMenomena spent most of 2009 in and out of the studio. A collection of pictures from these sessions were posted on their official Myspace, although no comments were made about the album's progress. In December, Pitchfork posted a video of Menomena playing a brand new track, \"Queen Black Acid\", in a hotel room, and in January Menomena stated, \"We're finishing our new album in two weeks...\" via Twitter.\n\nIt was confirmed by Pitchfork on April 7, 2010, that Menomena's fourth full-length album, \"Mines\", would be released on July 26 in Europe via City Slang and July 27 in North America via Barsuk. A 7-inch split with The Helio Sequence would also be released on Record Store Day, with Menomena contributing the new track \"Pilgrim's Progress\".\n\nOn January 7, 2011 Menomena announced the departure of Brent Knopf on the Menomena website: \"After 10 years of fruitful collaboration, Brent Knopf has decided to part ways with Menomena to focus on Ramona Falls and other creative pursuits. We want to thank Brent for his vast contributions over the years and wish him nothing but happiness in all of his future endeavors. All three of us look forward to seeing you soon!\" Knopf was replaced by Paul Alcott for the remaining Mines tour dates. Both Knopf and Danny Seim addressed the matter in an interview posted on the Portland-based Local Cut blog two weeks later. Seim mentioned that he and Justin Harris will continue to make music as Menomena, stating, \"We lost a major creative force in Brent, but thankfully, Brent's not Kurt Cobain, and we’re not Nirvana. Brent's more like Peter Gabriel and we’re more like Genesis. And everyone knows how much better Genesis got after that talentless hack Gabriel quit. Waitaminute…\"\n\nOn June 6, 2012 Menomena announced their fifth album, \"Moms\", which was released September 18, 2012. The album has been noted for its more personal lyrical themes, which address both members' relationships with their mothers.\n\nIn a performance setting, Menomena attempts to replicate the often dense instrumentation found on their recordings without the use of backing tracks.\n\nThroughout the course of a typical concert, Harris plays electric guitar(s), baritone guitar, electric bass, Moog Taurus foot synthesizer (or a Roland Pk-5 when touring Europe), baritone saxophone, and alto saxophone; Seim plays drums and other percussion. Both members contribute vocal harmonies and sing lead on different songs.\n\nIn 2007 they did a Take-Away Show acoustic video session shot by Vincent Moon. Later on that year, Craig Thompson appeared on stage with Menomena at several concerts over the course of a European tour. Throughout these performances, Thompson painted along with the music using a brush and ink on a large sheet of butcher paper. At the end of each show, the pieces were ripped into shreds and thrown into the audience.\n\nMenomena added multi-instrumentalist Joe Haege of 31Knots as a touring member in 2010. On August 9, the band made their national television debut as a four-piece with Haege on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.\n\nThe band's songwriting process involves a computer program called the Digital Looping Recorder, or Deeler for short. It was programmed by Knopf using the language Max. Seim explains the process: \"First, we set the tempo of the click, which is played through a pair of headphones. We then take turns passing a single mic around the room. One of us will hold the mic in front of an instrument, while another one of us will lay down a short improvised riff over the click track. We usually start with the drums. Once the drums begin looping, we throw on some bass, piano, guitar, bells, sax, or whatever other sort of noisemaker happens to be in the room. Deeler keeps the process democratic, which is the only way we can operate.\"\n\nThe use of Deeler as a compositional tool was discussed extensively by the band in an interview published in the May/June 2005 issue (#47) of \"Tape Op\" magazine.\n\nMenomena is a band with no primary songwriter, and their albums develop through a slow exchange of song ideas - usually via email. \"I'm not aware of a single instance when we were together [recording],\" said Brent Knopf of the album \"Mines\". \"The Portland Mercury\" described this as a \"painstaking cut-and-paste method of song assembly ... as each member contributes, then vanishes, only to return later to add more.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880597", "title": "Alive at Last", "text": "Alive at Last\n\nAlive at Last is a live album by Train recorded at Workplay Theatre in Birmingham, Alabama over three consecutive nights from June 9 to June 11, 2004.\n\nIt included most of the hits from Train's catalogue, even boasting some rare B-side tracks, and a cover of The Faces hit \"Stay With Me\".\n\nThe final two tracks on the album, \"Ordinary\" and \"New Sensation\" were included as bonus studio tracks. \"Ordinary\" was originally written for the movie \"Spider-Man 2\" and appeared on the soundtrack, it was also released as a single.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880598", "title": "August Meitzen", "text": "August Meitzen\n\nAugust Meitzen (born 16 December 1822, in Breslau; died 19 January 1910, in Berlin) was a German statistician.\n\nHe was born in Breslau (now Wrocław, Poland) and educated at Heidelberg and Tübingen. He was a prominent member of the Statistical Bureau, and in 1875 was made an associate professor of political sciences (\"Staatswissenschaften\") at the University of Berlin (honorary professor from 1892).\n\nHis contributions to the science of statistics include:\nHe also wrote:\nHe was the author of several biographies in the \"Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie\".\n"}
{"id": "1880608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880608", "title": "Tanquetazo", "text": "Tanquetazo\n\nEl Tanquetazo or El Tancazo (both Spanish for \"tank putsch\") of 29 June 1973 was a failed coup attempt in Chile led by Lieutenant Colonel Roberto Souper against the government of Socialist president Salvador Allende. It is named because the rebelling officers primarily used tanks. It was successfully put down by loyal Constitutionalist soldiers led by Army Commander-in-Chief Carlos Prats.\n\nBy the beginning of June 1973, an important part of the high command of the Chilean Armed Forces had lost all respect for the Popular Unity government of President Salvador Allende, which had been in office since November 1970. During the so-called Tacnazo of 1969, high-ranking officers had learned that by exerting pressure as a group, they could achieve wide-ranging changes within the military. In 1969 they had achieved high command changes and an increase in the Armed Forces' budget. In June 1973, some began plotting against the Allende government.\n\nA week before the coup attempt, the conspiracy was discovered at the Santiago Army garrison. The garrison commander, General Mario Sepúlveda Squella, informed his immediate superiors at the Army General Staff, and also told José Tohá, the Minister of Defense. The government immediately arrested nine people involved in the conspiracy, and Minister Tohá decided to go public with this information on the afternoon of 28 June.\n\nEarly in the morning of the following day, Lieutenant Colonel Roberto Souper, who had just learned that he would be relieved of his command for his part in the conspiracy, led a column of sixteen armored vehicles, including six Sherman tanks, plus 80 soldiers from the Second Armored Battalion in Santiago. The rebel column rapidly traveled to downtown Santiago and encircled the presidential palace, La Moneda, and the building housing the Ministry of Defense, just across the Plaza de la Libertad. At two minutes before 9:00 AM, the tanks opened fire on these buildings.\n\nAt the Ministry, a tank made its way to the main entrance, climbed the steps into the building, and started firing on offices. Sergeant Rafael Veillena, of the Army's Second Division, was killed when he looked out a ninth-floor window. The firing of machine guns and tanks panicked workers in the area, who at that hour were making their way to their jobs downtown. A woman working at the State Bank near the Ministry was killed, as well as a couple who were caught in cross-fire. At least 16 people were wounded, four seriously. A group of foreign journalists covering the reforms carried out by Allende's government was caught in the middle of the insurrection. While filming the events outside La Moneda, Argentine cameraman Leonardo Henrichsen and his colleague Jan Sandquist were fired at by corporal Héctor Hernán Bustamante Gómez and several soldiers. Henrichsen was fatally shot by a soldier, who was never identified. Before collapsing in the arms of Sandquist, Henrichsen recorded the military foot patrol firing at him. The footage was recovered by Sandquist and showed on the Argentine television on 24 July.\n\nGeneral Mario Sepúlveda Squella immediately called General Guillermo Pickering, commander of the military institutes, requesting loyal troops to suppress the rebellion. After securing these troops, he called Army Commander-in-chief General Carlos Prats with a plan to neutralize Souper's forces. General Prats approved it immediately, and a few minutes later General Sepúlveda Squella started to position his own troops.\n\nEarlier that morning, Salvador Allende spoke to the people of Chile from the presidential residence at Tomas Moro in Santiago. In a 9:30 AM radio address, the president announced his unequivocal decision to defend the constitutional government against an attempted \"coup d'état\". He called upon the workers of Santiago to occupy the factories \"and be ready in case it is necessary to fight alongside the soldiers of Chile.\"\n\nIn the meantime, General Prats visited all the nearby military regiments around Santiago to secure their support against the coup. The General encountered some resistance from the officers at the Junior Officers' Academy, who claimed that they did not want to fire against fellow soldiers. Prats insisted that the insurrection against the constitutional government had to be put down, and as Army Commander-in-chief, he ordered them to the streets. After a brief moment of indecision, they chose to support him, and soon after 10:30 AM, combat-ready units from the Academy joined the fight against the rebels.\n\nDriving toward La Moneda, General Prats thought about the likely effects of these actions on other military units, who might be participating or, at least, waiting to act until they had seen the initial results. Prats decided to use all the resources available to crush the rebellion before noon.\n\nNear the presidential palace, General Prats left his car carrying a Thompson submachine gun. A large number of people had already congregated nearby, watching the movement of troops. Colonel Julio Canessa arrived with forces from the Junior Officers' Academy, and General Prats ordered pieces of heavy artillery be deployed along the principal Avenue. He took what he subsequently called \"a calculated risk\" by speaking directly to the mutinous soldiers in an effort to convince them to give up their fight. Prats sought to prevent a long confrontation and unnecessary military and civilian casualties. According to his later account: \"I then decided to advance in the company of Lieutenant Colonel Osvaldo Hernández, Captain Roger Vergara, and First Sergeant Omar Vergara. Extremely moved, Villaroel, the Military Chaplain, gave us the last absolution.\"\n\nAt 11:10 AM, the four soldiers walked along Alameda Avenue carrying assault weapons. When they reached the palace, they were within steps of Tank E-2814. The commander of the tank trained his machine gun on the group but did not fire. Prats ordered him to come down, identify himself, obey his orders, and surrender to the soldiers of the Junior Officers' School. According to the account of a journalist watching the events nearby, \"the soldier came down, stood at attention before the general, and saluted. That tank would not again fire against the Ministry of Defense or La Moneda on that morning.\" Prats successively repeated these orders to the men in other tanks and combat vehicles located south of the Palace. When a soldier shouted from a tank: \"I will not surrender, General!\", while pointing his machine gun at Prats's group, Major Osvaldo Zabala approached him from behind and put a gun to his temple, disarming him and bringing the tense standoff to an end.\n\nA few of the tanks fled rather than surrendering after reinforcements from the \"Buin\" First Infantry Regiment arrived at the scene. This military unit, led by General Augusto Pinochet, quickly deployed its cannons and machine guns. The last rebelling unit to flee was a group of tanks and military vehicles stationed north of La Moneda. As this convoy fled south, General Prats saw Lt. Colonel Roberto Souper, \"who looked disoriented and lost.\"\n\nImmediately General Prats entered the palace and ordered a general search of the buildings nearby. General Pickering had cleared the rebels out of the western sector near the presidential palace. By 11:30 AM, the shooting around La Moneda had subsided, and the coup attempt appeared to be over.\n\nSouper surrendered later that day, after units from the \"\"Tacna\"\" regiment encircled and fired on the Second Battalion's barracks where he and his troops had taken refuge. Other military officers involved in planning the putsch were René López, Edwin Ditmer, Héctor Bustamante, Mario Garay, Carlos Martínez, Raúl Jofre, and José Gasset. It was soon discovered that the main leaders of the extreme right-wing group, Fatherland and Liberty, had been the instigators. , John Schaeffer, Benjamín Matte, Manuel Fuentes, and Juan Hurtado sought asylum in the Embassy of Ecuador. From there they released a communique acknowledging that they had promoted the attempted coup.\n\nDuring the evening, President Allende addressed a massive demonstration of support in front of La Moneda. As he neared the end of his speech, he said: \"... trust your government. Go home and kiss your wives and children in the name of Chile.\"\n\nThough the \"tanquetazo\" was unsuccessful, it was a turning point in the deteriorating political situation of Chile. The failure allowed the conspirators to check loyalties, and push the government to take steps towards an alliance with the Christian Democracy party. Christian Democracy's leader Patricio Aylwin demanded the formation of a coalition cabinet, to include members of the armed forces. Allende rejected his proposal.\n\nThe tanquetazo is seen as the prelude to the successful coup of 11 September 1973. Amongst other consequences, Army Intelligence officers conducted a thorough study of the weaponry used against the rebelling troops, and the locations from which they were fired. Additionally, the strength of the so-called \"industrial belts\", traditional strongholds of pro-government workers, was accurately gauged and concluded to be weak, even after President Allende's call on all workers to defend the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880615", "title": "End of World War II in Asia", "text": "End of World War II in Asia\n\nThe end of World War II in Asia occurred on 2 September 1945, when armed forces of the Empire of Japan surrendered to the forces of the Allies. The surrender came almost four months after the surrender of the Axis forces in Europe and brought an end to World War II.\n\nNovember 28, 1943\n\nTehran Conference: Soviet Union agrees to invade Japan \"after the defeat of Germany\" and begins stockpiling resources in the Far East.\n\nFebruary 4, 1945\n\nYalta Conference: Soviet Union agrees to invade Japan within 3 months of German surrender.\n\nApril 5, 1945\n\nSoviet Union denounces the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact that had been signed on April 13, 1941.\n\nApril 29, 1945\n\nItalian Fascist Republican troops, under Rodolfo Graziani’s command, surrender in the \"Rendition of Caserta\".\n\nMay 8, 1945\n\nGermany surrenders.\n\nJuly 16, 1945\n\nPotsdam Conference begins.\n\nJuly 26, 1945\n\nPotsdam Declaration issued, calling for the surrender of all Japanese armed forces.\n\nAugust 3, 1945\n\nSoviet General Vasilevskii reported to Stalin that Soviet forces ready for invasion from August 7.\n\nAugust 6, 1945\n\nA U-235 type atomic bomb, Little Boy, dropped on Hiroshima from a special B-29 Superfortress named \"Enola Gay\", flown by Col. Paul Tibbets. It is the first use of atomic weapons in combat. (Atomic bombing of Hiroshima)\n\nAugust 8, 1945\n\nThe Soviet Union declares war on Japan against the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact.\n\nAugust 9, 1945\n\nSecond, and more powerful plutonium implosion atomic bomb, Fat Man, is dropped on Nagasaki from a different \"Silverplate\" B-29 named \"Bockscar\", flown by Maj. Charles Sweeney (Atomic bombing of Nagasaki)\n\nAugust 9, 1945\n\nSoviet Armies launch the Soviet invasion of Manchuria.\n\nAugust 10, 1945\n\nThe 38th Parallel is set as the delineation between the Soviet and US occupation zones in Korea.\n\nAugust 14, 1945 (noon JST on August 15, 1945)\n\nEmperor Shōwa's decree to accept the Potsdam Declaration is announced over radio.\n\nAugust 14, 1945\n\nGeneral Douglas MacArthur is appointed to head the occupation forces in Japan.\n\nAugust 16, 1945\n\nGen. Jonathan Wainwright, a POW since May 6, 1942 following the surrender of U.S. forces in the Philippines under his command, is released from a POW camp in Manchuria.\n\nAugust 17, 1945\n\nJapanese IGHQ issues formal cease-fire in Manchuria.\n\nAugust 17, 1945\n\nGeneral MacArthur issues General Order No. 1.\n\nAugust 18, 1945\n\nSoviet Army invades Karafuto on southern Sakhalin Island.\n\nAugust 18, 1945\n\nSoviet amphibious landings begin in northern Korea.\n\nAugust 18, 1945\n\nJapanese pilots attack two Consolidated B-32 Dominators of the 386th Bomb Squadron, 312th Bomb Group, on a photo reconnaissance mission over Japan. Sgt. Anthony Marchione, 19, a photographer's assistant on the B-32 \"Hobo Queen II\", was fatally wounded in the attack. Marchione would be the last American killed in air combat in the Second World War.\n\nAugust 18, 1945\n\nSoviet invasion of the Kuril Islands begins with amphibious landings on Shumshu.\n\nAugust 19, 1945\n\nKwantung Army HQ transmit capitulation order to Japanese troops in Manchuria.\n\nAugust 23, 1945\n\nLast Japanese troops on Shumshu surrender to Soviet forces.\n\nAugust 25, 1945\n\nJapanese surrender in Karafuto (south Sakhalin Island).\n\nAugust 27, 1945\n\nB-29s drop supplies to Allied POWs in China.\n\nAugust 29, 1945\n\nThe Soviets shoot down a B-29 Superfortress dropping supplies to POWs in Korea\n\nAugust 29, 1945\n\nU.S. troops land near Tokyo to begin the occupation of Japan by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.\n\nAugust 30, 1945\n\nThe United Kingdom reoccupies Hong Kong.\n\nSeptember 2, 1945\n\nFormal Japanese surrender ceremony aboard USS \"Missouri\" in Tokyo Bay; U.S. President Harry S. Truman declares VJ Day.\n\nSeptember 2, 1945\n\nThe Japanese garrison in Penang surrenders, while the British retake Penang under Operation Jurist.\n\nSeptember 3, 1945\n\nThe Japanese commander in the Philippines, Gen. Yamashita, surrenders to Gen. Wainwright at Baguio.\n\nSeptember 4, 1945\n\nJapanese troops on Wake Island surrender.\n\nSeptember 5, 1945\n\nThe British land in Singapore.\n\nSeptember 5, 1945\n\nThe Soviets complete their occupation of the Kuril Islands.\n\nSeptember 6, 1945\n\nJapanese forces in Rabaul surrender.\n\nSeptember 8, 1945\n\nMacArthur enters Tokyo.\n\nSeptember 8, 1945\n\nU.S. forces land at Incheon to occupy Korea south of the 38th Parallel\n\nSeptember 9, 1945\n\nThe remaining Japanese forces in China surrender.\n\nSeptember 9, 1945\n\nThe remaining Japanese forces on the Korean Peninsula surrender.\n\nSeptember 10, 1945\n\nJapanese in Labuan surrender.\n\nSeptember 11, 1945\n\nJapanese in Sarawak surrender.\n\nSeptember 12, 1945\n\nJapanese in Singapore formally surrender.\n\nSeptember 13, 1945\n\nJapanese in Burma formally surrender.\n\nSeptember 14, 1945\n\nJapanese in Sulawesi surrender.\n\nSeptember 16, 1945\n\nJapanese in Hong Kong formally surrender.\n\nOctober 25, 1945\n\nJapanese in Taiwan surrender to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek as part of General Order No. 1, which later led to the ambiguous and unresolved political status of Taiwan.\n\nAfter Japan's defeat in 1945, with the help of Seri Thai, Thailand was treated as a defeated country by the British and French, although American support mitigated the Allied terms. Thailand was not occupied by the Allies, but it was forced to return the territory it had regained to the British and the French. In the postwar period Thailand had relations with the United States, which it saw as a protector from the communist revolutions in neighbouring countries.\n\nAt the end of World War II, Japan was occupied by the Allies, led by the United States with contributions also from Australia, India, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. This foreign presence marked the first time in its history that the island nation had been occupied by a foreign power. The San Francisco Peace Treaty, signed on September 8, 1951, marked the end of the Allied occupation, and after it came into force on April 28, 1952, Japan was once again an independent country.\n\nDuring the occupation, leading Japanese war crime charges were reserved for those who participated in a joint conspiracy to start and wage war, termed \"Class A\" (crimes against peace), and were brought against those in the highest decision-making bodies; \"Class B\" crimes were reserved for those who committed \"conventional\" atrocities or crimes against humanity; \"Class C\" crimes were reserved for those in \"the planning, ordering, authorization, or failure to prevent such transgressions at higher levels in the command structure.\"\n\nTwenty-eight Japanese military and political leaders were charged with Class A crimes, and more than 5,700 Japanese nationals were charged with Class B and C crimes, mostly entailing prisoner abuse. China held 13 tribunals of its own, resulting in 504 convictions and 149 executions.\n\nThe Japanese Emperor Hirohito and all members of the imperial family such as Prince Asaka, were not prosecuted for involvement in any the three categories of crimes. Herbert Bix explains that \"the Truman administration and General MacArthur both believed the occupation reforms would be implemented smoothly if they used Hirohito to legitimise their changes.\" As many as 50 suspects, such as Nobusuke Kishi, who later became Prime Minister, and Yoshisuke Aikawa, head of the \"zaibatsu\" Nissan Group, and future leader of the Chuseiren (a body representing small and medium-sized Japanese companies) were charged but released without ever being brought to trial in 1947 and 1948. Shiro Ishii received immunity in exchange for data gathered from his experiments on live prisoners. The lone dissenting judge to exonerate all indictees was Indian jurist Radhabinod Pal.\n\nThe tribunal was adjourned on 12 November 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880618", "title": "Dan van der Vat", "text": "Dan van der Vat\n\nDaniel Francis Jeroen van der Vat (28 October 1939 – 9 May 2019) was a journalist, writer and military historian, with a focus on naval history.\n\nBorn in Alkmaar, North Holland, Van der Vat grew up in the German-occupied Netherlands. He attended the Cardinal Vaughan Memorial School in London and then was a student at St Cuthbert's Society, Durham University, from 1957 to 1960, graduating with a BA in Classics. He wrote fourteen books.\n\nHe then became a graduate trainee on \"The Journal\", a newspaper based in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, and later joined the \"Daily Mail\" in Manchester and returned to Newcastle as its regional chief reporter. He was recruited by \"The Sunday Times\" in 1965 and transferred to \"The Times\" in 1967. He was a foreign correspondent for ten years, opening \"The Times\" bureau in South Africa but was later expelled from the country after he had been described by the apartheid-era authorities as being a \"pernicious liberal\". Instead, he became the newspaper's bureau chief in Germany, but after Rupert Murdoch acquired \"The Times\" in 1981, he left and joined \"The Guardian\" the next year. He served as the publication's chief foreign leader-writer before he left the title in 1988 to write books. He continued to write obituaries for \"The Guardian\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1880620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880620", "title": "Oakland Unified School District", "text": "Oakland Unified School District\n\nOakland Unified School District is a public education school district that operates about 86 elementary schools (K-5), middle schools (6-8), and high schools (9-12) and 32 district-authorized charter schools in Oakland, California, United States serving 49,000 students.\n\nLocated in California's most diverse city, OUSD serves a diverse population of students. Nearly half of the students in district and charter schools speak a non-English language at home. For the school year 2013-2014, 30 percent of OUSD students are English language learners. OUSD also serves a large population of newcomer students. Seventy-three percent of students receive free or reduced-price meals.\n\nOUSD was among the first school districts in the country to implement restorative justice practices to limit or eliminate suspensions. During the 2015 school year, 96.1 percent of students were not suspended.\n\nStarted in 2010, OUSD's African American Male Achievement Initiative enrolls more than 400 students. Students in the program have experienced success, including higher GPAs, higher graduation rates (up over 10 percent), and lower suspension rates (with a decrease of ⅓ for students enrolled in the program). In 2016, OUSD launched an African American Girls and Young Women Achievement Program to give students a place where they can find equitable support and new pathways to success.\n\nIn 2015 and 2016, OUSD forged partnerships with and secured grants from a number of technology companies, including Salesforce, Intel, Code.org, and Google, and set a goal to make computer science a graduation requirement for the freshman class that begins school in 2017.\n\nThe first school in Oakland opened in the 1850s and was located in a rented room in the back of a fandango at Second and Washington Streets. On July 12, 1853, the city held a parade to the first official school building. The schoolhouse was at the corner of Fifth and Clay and cost $1,000 to construct. The first school house had 16 students and was taught by a woman named Hannah Jayne. She was the only teacher in Oakland until 1855. Franklin Warner was hired soon after as Oakland's first principal. Frederick M. Campbell was hired as Oakland's first Superintendent. Reading, writing and arithmetic were stressed, as well as American history. Paper and books were scarce, so a lot of learning was done out loud.\n\nIn 1860, there were about 400 students in one-room schoolhouses taught by one teacher, and another school building at Fifth and Broadway taught older students. The first public high school opened in 1869 with 29 students. By the end of the 1870s, there was a public high school and nine public grade schools. In the 1880s, the first kindergarten and the first night school in Oakland opened.\n\nA 1909 Chamber of Commerce guide to the city includes this description of Oakland public schools: \"Oakland's chief pride is its public school system and the fact that her schools rank among the highest in the United States. No more modern school buildings can be found in any city in the United States than in Oakland. There are twenty-two public school buildings, and according to the figures of the City Assessor (which, upon municipal property are naturally low) the school land valuations amount to One Million, Ninety-three Thousand, Two Hundred Seventy-five Dollars … Connected with the High School is a completely equipped observatory, in which the study of astronomy is made effective and interesting with the aid of the most modern instruments.\"\n\nA City of Oakland Chamber of Commerce brochure from 1915, which includes a photo of Oakland Technical High School, states: \"The pride of Oakland is its schools. This, the Technical High School, with forges, machine shops, a great auditorium seating 1600 people, chemical laboratories and many other education features which prepare young men and women for an active and useful life, is one of the finest structures of its kind in the United States.\"\n\nA 1915 Board of Education guide to Oakland schools included 46 schools, many of which are still open today. They include Allendale, Claremont, Cleveland, Dewey, Elmhurst, Emerson, Franklin, Frick, Fruitvale, Lincoln, Manzanita, McClymonds, Melrose, Peralta, Piedmont, Prescott, Sequoia, Santa Fe, Fremont High, Oakland High, and Oakland Tech. High school departments included English, History, Foreign Languages, Mathematics, Science, Commercial, Home Economics, Physical Training, Shop and Drawing.\n\nOakland's first teachers' union, the Oakland Federation of Teachers, was first organized on May 3, 1943 as the Alameda County Federation of Teachers, Local 771 of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) to \"improve the educational facilities for the children of the nation and to improve the working conditions of the teachers in the public schools.\"\n\nOakland's first African American Superintendent was Dr. Marcus Foster, who was also the first black man to head a major U.S. school district. Born in Athens, GA, Dr. Foster arrived in Oakland in 1970, “already a celebrated and proven educator”. Dr. Foster viewed the three Rs and critical thinking as the building blocks of education. He also emphasized the need for art programs, team sports, and school activities that reflected the life circumstances of the students. In the short time he was in Oakland, Dr. Foster created a climate that gave life to a number of firsts: the Arts Magnet School, Far West School, Street Academy, Montera Film Festival (now the National Educational Film Festival), and the Oakland Education Institute (now the Marcus Foster Education Institute). Dr. Foster was murdered by the Symbionese Liberation Army in November, 1973.\n\nIn 2003, OUSD Superintendent Dennis K. Chaconas was fired and Governor Gray Davis approved a $100 million emergency loan, the biggest school bailout in California history. Chaconas was replaced by a state-appointed administrator, Randolph E. Ward. Ward resigned in July 2006 after being appointed superintendent of the San Diego public school system. Kimberly Statham was named Ward's permanent replacement, but she resigned suddenly on September 17, 2007, ostensibly under pressure from state officials. OUSD Chief of Staff Vincent Matthews was named interim superintendent.\n\nIn 2008, the state turned control over OUSD back to the city. The local school board hired an interim superintendent, Roberta Mayor, in July 2008 while the school board undertook a year-long search for a permanent leader. Anthony \"Tony\" Smith was hired in July 2009 as the district's permanent superintendent. Smith resigned suddenly in April 2013 after four years leading the district, citing family health issues. School board member Dr. Gary Yee was named the acting superintendent. In September 2014, Antwan Wilson became OUSD's fourth superintendent in six years. After just two years at the helm, Wilson resigned in November 2016 to become chancellor of the District of Columbia Public Schools. Devin Dillon, OUSD's deputy superintendent of Academic Social Emotional Learning, was named acting superintendent, effective February 1, 2017.\n\nOakland Unified teachers went on strike for seven days, beginning on February 21st, 2019, for fully funded public education, higher wages, and smaller class size. The strikes were part of the RedforEd campaign and were organized by the Oakland Education Association (OEA)--a union for teachers--and East Bay Democratic Socialists of America (EBDSA). Oakland Unified School District is under populated with a total of 87 public schools, so they have a plan to close some public, unionized (and predominantly low-income) schools over the next few years in order to save money. $57 million meant for public-sector schools is funneled to the private-sector charter schools a year.\n\nLeading up to the strike there was a meeting with the Oakland Unified School District Board of Education in which the community of Roots Academy, a school facing closure, testified a plea to keep their school open. Teachers gathered at the #RedforEd rally January 12, demonstrating that they are strike-ready. In show of solidarity, ten non-union charter schools “engaged in a wildcat sympathy strike”. Rallies continued as teachers from all around the Bay Area took a sick day on January 18th, 2019 and gathered at Oakland Technical High School to march to city hall in the name of public education. In an interview at the “sickout”, an Oakland teacher said “We have not had a contract for several years….The district is currently offering a 5% raise amounting to $70 extra which is not enough to keep up with the rising cost of housing in Oakland.”. 1 in 5 teachers leave Oakland Unified School District because they cannot afford to teach in the city they live in. When asked if they had enough resources to succeed, three Oakland Tech students replied “No, we don’t even have paper in some of the class rooms. Some kids do not have textbooks and they have to do their work at home, where they may not have internet. Our classes are overfilled. Sometimes students will try to print their work in the library but there will be no paper if there is no librarian. We did not have a librarian this whole school year until last week.”. Bread for Ed raised more than $175,000 to feed children and families out of school, because “73 percent of [Oakland] students depend on free or reduced lunch from their school”.\n\nThe teachers struck for seven days. “97% of students were out of school, and tens of thousands were on the picket lines”, according to Oakland Education Association. On February 28, 2019, OUSD “reached a tentative agreement” with OEA. On Sunday, March 3, Oakland Education Association teachers voted to authorize a new contract to implement an 11 percent increase in teachers’ salary for the next four years, plus a 3 percent bonus to account for losses during the strike. The agreement also demands to decrease class size, hold off school closures for five months, and have the district vote on whether or not to push the state for a moratorium of charter schools. Not all of the demands were granted, but the Oakland teacher strikes empowered the community to face the billionaire-backed operation to privatize education.\n\nThe district-run schools includes 59 elementary schools, 13 middle schools, 19 high schools, with 9 alternative education schools and programs, 4 adult programs and early childhood education centers at most of the elementary schools. There are 38,000 K-12 students in district schools and more than 5,000 employees.\n\nIn 2015, Montclair Elementary was recognized with the nation's highest honor for a K-12 school, the Blue Ribbon award, which recognizes \"exemplary teaching and learning\". Only 10 schools in the Bay Area, public or private, received the award that year. \n\nNearly half the students (47 percent) who attend Montclair come from outside the neighborhood. The \"East Bay Times\" reported, \"One of the school's secrets to success is what (Principal Nancy) Bloom calls the morning intervention acceleration model. Used in the kindergarten, first and second grades, children meet once a week in groups with no more than four or five students and get targeted instruction that meets their individual needs. On the other days, the students are outside doing physical education.\" \n\nThe school serves an increasing number of English language learner students and students who receive free and reduced priced meals.\n\nIn 2016, Collaborative for High Performance Schools praised Montclair Elementary's energy efficient design.\n\nIn 2015, Coliseum College Prep Academy (CCPA), located on the Havenscourt Campus in East Oakland, achieved a 91 percent graduation rate. The school serves about 450 students and a large percentage are English language learners (170 students in 2014-15). CCPA's ethnic breakdown for the 2013-14 school year consisted of 42.7% Hispanic or Latino students, 28% Black or African American students, 13.2% Asian students, 9.8% White students, 2.6% students of two or more races, and 1.1% Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.\n\nNotable Oakland public school graduates include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1880623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880623", "title": "Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre", "text": "Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre\n\nIt has a seating capacity of 785 and opened on October 31, 1970.\n\nWhen the Winnipeg Little Theatre and Theatre 77 merged to become the Manitoba Theatre Centre in 1958, it became the first of a network of \"regional theatres\" across North America. Artistic Director John Hirsch and General Manager Tom Hendry focused on classics, Broadway hits, and new Canadian work. A second stage for experimental work was established in 1960, and an annual provincial tour began in 1961.\n\nSince its founding, MTC has produced more than 600 plays with hundreds of actors, including Len Cariou, Graham Greene, Martha Henry, Judd Hirsch, Tom Hulce, William Hurt, Tom Jackson, Robert Lepage, Seana McKenna, Eric Peterson, Gordon Pinsent, Keanu Reeves, Fiona Reid, R.H. Thomson, Kathleen Turner and Al Waxman.\n\nToday, the Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre operates two theatre venues in Winnipeg, Manitoba- The John Hirsch Mainstage and the Tom Hendry Warehouse. Each season, MTC produces six Mainstage productions, four Warehouse Productions, an annual 12-day Winnipeg Fringe Theatre Festival, the Master Playwright Festival and a regional tour. MTC also provides student-only matinees with the Theatre for Young Audiences program, and scholarships and apprentice opportunities for post-secondary theatre students. The Jean Murray - Moray Sinclair Theatre Scholarship is funded purely from donations received during a run of a particular show each season. The Naomi Levin Theatre Scholarship was established in memory of Naomi Levin, a theatre technician associated with the MTC for a number of years.\n\nThe theatres were renamed after the company's founders in 2008. In 2009, the Government of Canada designated the Mainstage theatre a National Historic Site. On October 26, 2010, Manitoba Theatre Centre received a Royal designation, becoming Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre.\n\nThe Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre was designed in the Brutalist style by Winnipeg's Number Ten Architectural Group with input from artistic director Eddie Gilbert. With its exposed concrete sculptural form, an informal interior theatre space and a foyer originally conceived to balance large gatherings and smaller intimate groups in the same space, the Royal Manitoba Theatre Centre is one of Canada's most important small-scale Brutalist designs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880624", "title": "Donald Richie", "text": "Donald Richie\n\nDonald Richie (17 April 1924 – 19 February 2013) was an American-born author who wrote about the Japanese people, the culture of Japan, and especially Japanese cinema. Although he considered himself primarily a film historian, Richie also directed a number of experimental films, the first when he was 17.\n\nRichie was born in Lima, Ohio. During World War II, he served aboard Liberty ships as a purser and medical officer. By then he had already published his first work, \"Tumblebugs\" (1942), a short story.\n\nIn 1947, Richie first visited Japan with the American occupation force, a job he saw as an opportunity to escape from Lima, Ohio. He first worked as a typist, and then as a civilian staff writer for the \"Pacific Stars and Stripes\". While in Tokyo, he became fascinated with Japanese culture, particularly Japanese cinema. He was soon writing movie reviews in the \"Stars and Stripes\". In 1948 he met Kashiko Kawakita who introduced him to Yasujirō Ozu. During their long friendship, Richie and Kawakita collaborated closely in promoting Japanese film in the West. He began composing contemporary music and released a title for ballet at that time.\n\nAfter returning to the United States, he enrolled at Columbia University's School of General Studies in 1949 and received a B.S. degree in English in 1953. Richie then returned to Japan as film critic for \"The Japan Times\" and in 1959 published his first book, \"The Japanese Film: Art and Industry\", coauthored with Joseph Anderson, which gave the first English language account of Japanese film. The greater tolerance in Japan for male homosexuality than in the United States was one reason he gave for returning to Japan, as he was openly bisexual. He spent much of the second half of the 20th century living and working alone in Tokyo, with the exception of a brief marriage to the American writer Mary Evans from 1961 to 1965. Richie served as Curator of Film at the New York Museum of Modern Art from 1969 to 1972. In 1988, he was invited to become the first guest director at the Telluride Film Festival.\n\nRichie was a prolific author. Among his most noted works on Japan are \"The Inland Sea\", a travel classic, and \"Public People, Private People\", a look at some of Japan's most significant and most mundane people. He has compiled two collections of essays on Japan: \"A Lateral View\" and \"Partial Views\". A collection of his writings has been published to commemorate fifty years of writing about Japan: \"The Donald Richie Reader.\" \"The Japan Journals: 1947-2004\" consists of extended excerpts from his diaries.\n\nIn 1991, film makers Lucille Carra and Brian Cotnoir produced a film version of \"The Inland Sea\", which Richie narrated. Produced by Travelfilm Company, the film won numerous awards, including Best Documentary at the Hawaii International Film Festival (1991) and the Earthwatch Film Award. It screened at the Sundance Film Festival in 1992.\nAuthor Tom Wolfe described Richie as \"the Lafcadio Hearn of our time, a subtle, stylish, and deceptively lucid medium between two cultures that confuse one another: the Japanese and the American.\"\n\nAlthough Richie spoke Japanese fluently, he could neither read nor write it proficiently.\n\nRichie died, aged 88, on February 19, 2013, in Tokyo.\n\nRichie's most widely recognized accomplishments were his analyses of Japanese cinema. With each subsequent book, he focused less on film theory and more on the conditions in which the films were made. There was an emphasis on the \"presentational\" nature of Japan's cinema, in contrast to the \"representational\" films of the West. In the foreword to Richie's book \"A Hundred Years Of Japanese Film\", Paul Schrader writes, \"Whatever we in the West know about Japanese film, and how we know it, we most likely owe to Donald Richie.\" Richie also penned analyses of two of Japan's best known filmmakers: Yasujirō Ozu and Akira Kurosawa. Because Richie was a friend of Fumio Hayasaka, who composed music for the cinema, he first met Kurosawa on the set of \"Drunken Angel\", the director's initial collaboration with Toshiro Mifune.\n\nRichie wrote the English subtitles for Akira Kurosawa's films \"Throne of Blood\" (1957), \"Red Beard\" (1965), \"Kagemusha\" (1980) and \"Dreams\" (1990).\n\nIn the 21st century, Richie provided audio commentaries for The Criterion Collection on DVDs of various classic Japanese films, notably those of Ozu (\"A Story of Floating Weeds\" and \"Early Summer\"), Mikio Naruse (\"When a Woman Ascends the Stairs\"), and Kurosawa (\"Drunken Angel\", \"Rashomon\", \"The Lower Depths\", and \"The Bad Sleep Well\"), among others.\n\n\n\n\nRichie was the author of about 30 experimental films, from five to 47 minutes long, six of which have been published on DVD as \"A Donald Richie Film Anthology\" (Japan, 2004). None were originally meant for public screening. The pieces on the DVD, all originally shot in 16 mm, are:\n\nAmong the short works not included in the collection are for example \"Small Town Sunday\" (1941, 8 mm), filmed when he was still resident in the United States, \"A Sentimental Education\" (1953), \"Aoyama Kaidan\" (1957), \"Shu-e\" (1958), and \"Life\" (1965).\n\nOther films: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880625", "title": "National American University", "text": "National American University\n\nNational American University (NAU) is an online for-profit university with locations at Ellsworth Air Force Base, Joint Base Charleston, and Naval Submarine Base King's Bay. NAU is owned by National American University Holdings, Inc. The university is headquartered in Rapid City, South Dakota. Henley-Putnam School of Strategic Security (formerly Henley Putnam University) is a part of National American University.\n\nNational American University is organized into three academic divisions: College of Business, Technology, and Health Management; Henley-Putnam School of Strategic Security; and Harold D. Buckingham Graduate School. Over 100 associate degree, bachelor's, master's, doctoral, and certificate programs are offered. Most of NAU's academic programs are on the 11-week quarter system and have monthly starts. It is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission.\n\nIn 2018, Robert Gravely, a former NAU official, filed a lawsuit alleging that the school defrauded the United States government out of millions of dollars in a student aid program, unlawfully paid bonuses to university employees for recruiting students and rigged the accreditation for its medical assisting program. NAUH also mortgaged real property for $8 million in loans. In 2018, more campus closings were also planned. \n\nIn September 2018, the Rapid City Journal detailed NAUH's declining enrollment and financial difficulties. On September 28, 2018, NAUH received a delisting warning from NASDAQ.\n\nOn December 28, 2018, the NAUH Board agreed to voluntarily delist from the NASDAQ. \n\nOn January 22, 2019, NAUH announced that \"the Company had $0.5 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and a working capital deficiency of $8.7 million. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.\"\n\nOn February 15, 2019, NAUH announced Thomas Bickart as their new Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bickart was CFO at TCI College of Technology from 2013 to 2016 and later worked at EdisonLearning, Inc. to restructure its operations.\n\nOn March 16, 2019, National American University announced that most of its 24 ground campuses would be closed, except for Ellsworth Air Force Base and King's Bay Naval Submarine Base.\n\nOn March 31, 2019, National American University granted honorary doctorates to several people in India, including Astrologer Dr Sohini Sastri. \n\nOn April 15, 2019, National American University reported that they must post a letter of credit for either 50% ($36.7 million) or 15% ($11 million) of its Title IV awards in order to continue participating in the program. \n\nThe operation faced further pressure with an $800,000 debt payment due May 17, 2019, and an ongoing federal False Claims lawsuit.\n\nOn May 10, 2019, NAUH received an $8.5 million loan from the Center for Excellence in Higher Education. The loan was set at a 7 percent interest rate with a $250,000 origination fee. \n\nOn May 24, 2019, Inside Higher Education reported that students at National American University had been surprised that campuses were closing. \n\nOn May 29, 2019, Rapid City reported that the city would purchase a portion of the Rapid City campus for a homeless resource center. \n\nTotal student enrollment has declined from 9,519 students in 2015 to 3,398 students in February 2019. In March 2019, National American University announced that it was closing most of its remaining 24 campuses, including its campuses in Rapid City and Sioux Falls. and is now an online university.\n\nNational American University offers Bachelor of Science degrees, Associate of Applied Science degrees, and diplomas in accounting, management, business administration, allied health, criminal justice, healthcare management, health and beauty management, and information technology. In August 2008, NAU's graduate studies program was renamed the Harold D. Buckingham Graduate School, in honor of the late owner. Graduate degree programs include an M.B.A., a Master of Management degree, an Ed.D in Community College Leadership, and Master and Doctoral degrees in Strategic Security, Terrorism and Counterterrorism Studies, and Intelligence Management. \n\nIn 1996 National American University began to develop online courses and degree options for students across the United States and internationally. Online programs include associate’s, bachelor's and master's degrees in accounting, business, information technology, strategic security, and health care. Students are also provided access to classes and extensive campus resources including learning resource center services, tutoring services, counseling services, and computer support through a student portal. \n\nIn 2012, 53 percent of NAU's students were studying online, with an additional 17 percent taking some classes online. In 2018, 77 percent of NAU's students were studying online, with an additional 12 percent taking some classes online.\n\nNAU is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. Several NAU programs are separately accredited by multiple national, educational and professional associations. NAU's baccalaureate and master's degree programs in nursing are also accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education \n\nIn the 2017-2018 award period, National American University had 5,660 students receiving benefits from Pell Grants.\n\n\n\n\n\nColorado\nIndiana\nKansas\nMinnesota\nMissouri\nNebraska\nNew Mexico\nOklahoma\nSouth Dakota\nTexas \nAccording to the College Scorecard, NAU students have a median income of $34,800 after attending. The graduation rate is 17 percent. The student loan repayment rate is 24 percent.\n\nNational American University Holdings, Inc., was a publicly traded corporation (NASDAQ: NAUH) holding company for NAU and other assets. The corporation was established in 2009 and is located in Rapid City, South Dakota.\n"}
{"id": "1880629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880629", "title": "Manitoba Museum", "text": "Manitoba Museum\n\nThe Manitoba Museum, previously the Manitoba Museum of Man and Nature is the largest museum in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. It is located close to City Hall. The museum was designed by Herbert Henry Gatenby Moody of Moody and Moore in 1965.\n\nThe museum is the largest heritage centre in Manitoba and focuses on human and natural heritage. It has planetarium shows and a Science Gallery hall. The Institute for Stained Glass in Canada has documented the stained glass at the Manitoba Museum.\n\nIn 1879, the Historical and Scientific Society of Manitoba began officially to collect and preserve its heritage at some unknown location. In the early 1890s, E. Thompson Seton wrote about the Manitoba Museum, which was reportedly housed in the basement of Winnipeg's City Hall. Those collections appear to have been dispersed, and by 1900 there was no public museum in Winnipeg. There were, however, significant private collectors and from 1911 to the early 1920s material from their collections was exhibited in the Exposition Building of the former Winnipeg Industrial Bureau at Main and Water. The present museum holds some of these collections although most were dispersed.\n\nIn 1932, the Natural History Society of Manitoba, the Winnipeg Board of Trade, and the Auditorium Commission founded the Manitoba Museum Association. The Manitoba Museum officially opened its doors on December 15, 1932 in the newly built Civic Auditorium (now the Provincial Archives Building) on Vaughan Street. The museum remained in that location, together with the Winnipeg Art Gallery, until 1967. Critical support for outreach programs and exhibits came from the Carnegie Corporation and Junior League. Professors at the University of Manitoba, formerly the Manitoba Agriculture College, played significant roles in the museum's development. The museum was run by volunteer Honorary Curators, with assistance from other dedicated volunteers and a small staff.\n\nAs the museum grew in acquisitions and attendance, the need for an expanded facility became critical, and in 1954 the Board began planning a new institution, which would reflect the values of the time. They consulted extensively with the American Museum of Natural History and the Hayden Planetarium. Funding came in large part from federal project sources designed to create new Canadian cultural facilities for the 1967 Canadian Centennial commemoration.\n\nIn 1964, a proposal for a museum and planetarium was submitted to the Manitoba government headed by Premier Duff Roblin. The proposal stated that:Manitoba needs a Modern Museum of Man and Nature. Not a collection of stuffed birds, antiquated firearms or dusty rocks – but a living history of man and his environment, tracing the evolution of Manitoba's resources, industry and culture, past and present, and pointing the way, through research, to the future. To inform, instruct and educate by interpreting nature to man and their effect on each other in the function of a Modern Museum of Man and Nature.In 1965, provincial legislation dissolved the unincorporated Manitoba Museum Association and incorporated the Manitoba Museum of Man and Nature and the Manitoba Planetarium, and the location as part of the planned Manitoba Centennial Centre was announced. Paid curatorial positions were created, and the former volunteer curators were appointed to the Museum Advisory Council. Most of the invaluable collections were transferred to the new corporation and during 1968-69, while the new building was being completed; the collections were put in storage.\n\nLieutenant Governor Richard Bowles opened the Planetarium on May 15, 1968, and the new museum facilities were officially opened in July, 1970 by Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II to commemorate the province's Centennial.\n\nAt the time of the official opening only the Orientation Gallery and part of the Grasslands Gallery were finished. The planetarium and museum were integrated as one corporation in 1988, and in 1996 the corporate name returned to the original Manitoba Museum. The museum formally began using the name The Manitoba Museum in 2002.\n\nIn 1994, the Hudson's Bay Company designated the museum as the permanent home for its historic material collection, which portrays more than three centuries of the company's colourful history. In 1996, construction got underway for a new wing to house this magnificent collection. The new wing was officially opened in September, 1998, and the new HBC Gallery opened on May 2, 2000.\n\nWhen the last major gallery, Parklands/Mixed Woods, opened in September 2003, the grand design for a museum to portray the human and natural history of all of Manitoba was complete. A renewed Science Gallery opened in 2008 replacing the 'Touch the Universe' Gallery. The plan calls for a separate Science Museum building next to the Manitoba Museum.\n\nAn expanded Alloway Hall opened in the spring of 2017. The new Hall is in size, doubling the previous space.\n\nThe Winnipeg Gallery opened November 1, 2019. The purpose of this gallery is to tell the story of Winnipeg's development over the past century. It features a stained glass logo of Winnipeg that used to be located at the old \"gingerbread\" City Hall, and has not been seen since the 1960s.\n\nThe Manitoba Museum is in the process of upgrading its antiquated HVAC system in 2019.\n\nThe Manitoba Museum is the first Canadian museum to recreate marine life as it was 450 million years ago. A virtual underwater observatory shows the Hudson’s Bay region during the Ordovician period. Manitoba is home to the giant trilobite.\n\nThe collections in the museum reflect the heritage of Manitoba. The interpretive galleries are Earth History, Arctic/Sub-Arctic, Boreal Forest, Nonsuch, Hudson's Bay Company, Parklands/Mixed Woods, Grasslands and Urban.\n\nTogether these explore the history and environment of the province from its northern Arctic coast to its southern prairie grasslands. In particular the museum is famed for its Urban Gallery, which recreates a Winnipeg street scene in the 1920s.\n\nThe full-size replica of the \"Nonsuch\", the ship whose voyage in 1668 led to the founding of the Hudson's Bay Company, is the museum's showcase piece.\n\nThe museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, the Canadian Association of Science Centres, and Virtual Museum of Canada.\n\nThis section needs to be written (November 2019).\n\n"}
{"id": "1880630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880630", "title": "Perisher Valley, New South Wales", "text": "Perisher Valley, New South Wales\n\nPerisher Valley, commonly called Perisher, is a valley formed below Mount Perisher, a mountain that is located in the Snowy Mountains of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nLocated in the Snowy Monaro Regional Council, the valley is the site of one of four resort bases of the Perisher Ski Resort, which also comprises Guthega, Blue Cow and Smiggin Holes. It is located within the Kosciuszko National Park between Jindabyne and Charlotte Pass on the Kosciuszko Road. Access to the Valley is via the Skitube Alpine Railway or by road. Although it is primarily a winter only resort village, year round accommodations are available, including great tours, and bush walks.\n\nAt the , Perisher Village had a population of 149 people. In winter, the population is approximately 2,500 due to guests.\n\nPerisher Valley has a subantarctic climate (Köppen \"Dfc\") with cool summers accompanied by a high diurnal range, wet springs and cold, snowy winters. There is some continental influence in the temperature pattern throughout the year.\n\nSnow depth measurements are taken by Snowy Hydro at Spencers Creek, approximately west of Perisher Valley.\n\nThe Snowy Mountains region is thought to have had Aboriginal occupation for some twenty thousand years. Large scale intertribal gatherings were held in the High Country during summer for collective feasting on the Bogong moth.\n\nThis practice continued until around 1865. European explorers entered the district from 1835, and in 1840, Edmund Strzelecki ascended Mount Kosciuszko and named it after a Polish patriot. High country stockmen followed who used the Snowy Mountains for grazing during the summer months. Banjo Paterson's famous poem \"The Man From Snowy River\" recalls this era. The cattle graziers have left a legacy of mountain huts scattered across the area. A story, which may be apocryphal, credits James Spencer, who settled in the area in the 1840s with saying 'What a perisher' when caught in a storm, giving origin to the Perisher area.\n\nThe Kosciuszko National Park in which Perisher is situated came into existence as the National Chase Snowy Mountains on 5 December 1906. In 1944 this became the Kosciuszko State Park, and then the Kosciuszko National Park in 1967.\n\nThe development of Skiing in Australia began at Kiandra in the Northern Snowy Mountains around 1861, but in the 20th century, the focus of Skiing in New South Wales shifted towards the Mount Kosciuszko region. The first Kosciuszko Chalet was built at Charlotte Pass in 1930, giving relatively comfortable access to Australia's highest terrain. The growing number of ski enthusiasts heading to Charlotte Pass led to the establishment of a cafe at Smiggin Holes, near Perisher Valley, around 1939, where horse-drawn sleighs would deliver skiers to be begin the arduous ski to the Kosciusko Chalet. It was the construction of the vast Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme from 1949 that really opened up the Snowy Mountains for large scale development of a ski industry and led to the establishment of Thredbo and Perisher as leading Australian resorts. The Construction of Guthega Dam brought skiers to the isolated Guthega district and a rope tow was installed there in 1957.\n\nAs the number of skiers increased, services, facilities and means of access were improved, and Perisher's first lodges were constructed. Telemark and the Snow Revellers Club being completed in 1952. In the winter of 1953 the first oversnow transport operated to Perisher Valley. It was greeted by the inhabitants with cheers and celebrations. In 1958, Svere Kaaten, another pioneer of the mountains, built a sophisticated rope tow at North Perisher. Ken Murray, an old friend of Svere's built another rope tow and Perisher's first T-bar. Development continued and Mount Perisher Double Chair was opened in 1962. After the opening of the first chairlift, T-bar expansion and rope tows, the Perisher area thrived. Murray Publishers Pty Limited was taken over by Australian Consolidated Press in 1972 and Kosciuszko Alpine Resorts was formed. Murray Publishers then traded under the name of Perisher Ski Resort which incorporated the resorts of Perisher and Smiggins. In 1995, Murray Publishers Pty Limited and the Alpine Australia Group Pty Limited merged to form Perisher Blue Pty Limited.\n\nThe last establishment of a major skifield in NSW came with the development of Mount Blue Cow in the 1980s. In 1987 the Swiss designed Skitube Alpine Railway opened to deliver skiers from Bullocks Flat, on the Alpine Way, to Perisher Valley and to Blue Cow, which also opened in 1987. The operators of Blue Cow purchased Guthega in 1991, and the new combined resort later merged with Perisher-Smiggins to become the largest ski resort in the Southern Hemisphere. In 2009 Perisher had 48 lifts covering 1,245 hectares and four village base areas: Perisher Valley, Blue Cow, Smiggin Holes and Guthega.\n\nSince 2009, Perisher Valley has been the host of the Snowy Mountains of Music Festival, a folk festival created by the same people behind the Illawarra Folk Festival. The festival runs every year on the Queen's Birthday Weekend, which is also the official start of the Ski Season for the Snowy Mountains. It acts as both a promotional festival for the Australian Snow Season, specifically, Perisher Valley, but also as an outlet for all sorts of Australian and International talent across a diverse range of genres.\n\nPerisher Valley is situated at above sea level. The summit of Mount Perisher above the village reaches of altitude. The highest lifted point is the Mt Perisher Double Chair at 2034m. According to statistics posted on the Perisher website in 2012, the recognised natural snow line in the region is at and over the previous 15 years, the average maximum snow depth throughout the Resort had been about . Average minimum temperature during winter was stated as .\n\nIn 2012, the four resort bases of the Perisher Ski Resort contained a skiable area of and were serviced by 47 lifts, making Perisher the largest Australian ski resort.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880631", "title": "William Morris Bioff", "text": "William Morris Bioff\n\nWilliam Morris (\"Willie\") Bioff (1900 – November 4, 1955) was an American organized crime figure who operated as a labor leader in the movie production business from the 1920s through the 1940s. During this time, Bioff extorted millions of dollars from movie studios with the threat of mass union work stoppages.\nBioff was born and briefly raised in a kosher Jewish household in Chicago, but his father kicked him out on the street when he was eight years old. Bioff soon became involved in criminal ventures, beginning with petty theft, then minor protection rackets and working his way up to pimping in Chicago's Levee vice district, of which he was later convicted in 1922. Bioff later worked for Harry and Jake \"Greasy Thumb\" Guzik where, through Guzik, Bioff met Al Capone and later Frank \"The Enforcer\" Nitti.\n\nIn the 1930s, Nitti sent Bioff to California as an enforcer for Mafia-controlled union leader George Browne, who later became President of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. Bioff, aided by John \"Handsome Johnny\" Rosselli, eventually became the collector for the Syndicate-controlled unions in Hollywood, extorting millions of dollars from major motion-picture studios, and keeping several hundred thousand for himself. As one source notes with irony: \n\nAmusingly, Bioff, a glorified Chicago thug, went Hollywood in a big way with his sudden wealth. But his fancy suits and solid gold business cards made him too high profile ... – hence the indictment.\n\nBioff later threatened a strike against New York movie theaters by demanding two projectionists in each theater. When owners complained they would go broke under the terms he demanded, Bioff agreed to an arrangement for two projectionists in exchange for reduced pay, much of which went to Bioff. By the late 1930s, a newspaper campaign began bringing attention to the Bioff-Browne extortion operation, creating a huge scandal in Hollywood. He was exposed by conservative newspaper columnist Westbrook Pegler, who was trying to prove that criminal corruption was rampant in labor unions.\n\nIn 1943, Bioff was indicted for tax evasion and related crimes, as well as extortion and racketeering, along with a number of his associates. Rather than face prison, Bioff testified against his companions, including Paul \"The Waiter\" Ricca, Philip D'Andrea, Charlie \"Cherry Nose\" Gioe, Johnny Rosselli, Lou Kaufman, and Frank \"The Enforcer\" Nitti. The defendants received 10-year sentences. Nitti committed suicide shortly after Bioff's testimony. Bioff received a reduced sentence along with Browne.\n\nUpon his release, Bioff moved to Arizona and assumed a new identity, \"William Nelson\", and reportedly developed a friendship with then Senator Barry Goldwater, even so far as going into business with the senator's nephew Bobby. Bioff, however, soon began working for Riviera Casino manager Gus Greenbaum, at the Chicago Outfit-owned Las Vegas casino.\n\nOn November 4, 1955, shortly after the release of his former companions, Bioff was assassinated through a bombing described as follows:\n\nBioff walked out of his home and slid behind the wheel of his truck. A moment later, an explosion rocked the neighborhood. Parts of Bioff and his truck were strewn all over the driveway. Police found the remains of a dynamite bomb wired to the starter. The killers were never found.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880633", "title": "Heavy Metal: a Tank Company's Battle to Baghdad", "text": "Heavy Metal: a Tank Company's Battle to Baghdad\n\nHeavy Metal: a Tank Company's Battle to Baghdad is a book by Captain Jason Conroy with Ron Martz published in 2005 by Potomac Books.\n\nIn \"Heavy Metal\", Conroy and Martz provide an up-close and very personal view of the sometimes vicious fighting that took place almost from the time the unit crossed the border from Kuwait until it got to Baghdad.\n\nThe book chronicles the making of Charlie Company, following it from its home base at Fort Stewart, Georgia, to training in the deserts of California and Kuwait. It provides details of fighting on the road to Baghdad, including a key battle at the holy city of Najaf, where militias and Fedayeen Saddam used suicide tactics in a fruitless effort to stop the 70-ton M1A1 Abrams tanks.\n\n\"Heavy Metal\" is Capt. Conroy's account of what went right and what went wrong in Iraq from the start of the war. It demonstrates how Conroy and his soldiers were able to overcome supply shortages, intelligence failures, and weather of Biblical ferocity in their battle for downtown Baghdad, a place they were originally told they would never take their tanks.\n\nThe book tells how young soldiers were able to overcome numerous obstacles and adversities and adapt to ever-changing conditions all the while under constant enemy fire for more than a month.\n\nJust south of Baghdad, in the city of Mahmudiyah, Charlie Company engaged in a battle with Soviet-made T-72 tanks at point-blank range, a tactic that is not part of Army doctrine and something for which the young soldiers had not trained.\n\n\"Heavy Metal\" also for the first time reveals what really happened at the Iraqi National Museum in Baghdad; how Iraqi Special Republican Guard soldiers used the museum as a defensive position; how museum employees and others hid most of the artifacts before the fighting began; and how the number of items stolen was exaggerated by a member of the museum staff in interviews with international media in an apparent effort to discredit the American military.\n\nThrough the personal accounts of the young troopers of Charlie Co., \"Heavy Metal\" tells much about the quality of today’s American soldier, about 21st-century desert and urban warfare and how the Army should prepare to fight future wars.\n\nCaptain Jason Conroy, a 14-year veteran of the U.S. Army, was the Charlie Company Commander, 1st Battalion, 64th Armor Regiment.\n\nRon Martz writes on defense issues for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. He was named writer of the year by the Atlanta Press Club and Cox Newspapers and finished second to the staff of Time Magazine in the National Headliner awards for his coverage of the war in Iraq. He is the co-author of three previous books on military history.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880634", "title": "Baghdad Khatun", "text": "Baghdad Khatun\n\nBaghdad Khatun (; died 16 December 1335) (lit. Queen Baghdad), was a Chobanid princess, the daughter of Chupan. She was the Empress consort of the Ilkhanate as the wife of Abu Sa'id Bahadur Khan.\n\nBaghdad Khatun was the daughter of Amir Chupan, who was the leading Mongol amir of the Ilkhanid period. She had four full brothers Hasan, Demasq Kaja, Timurtash and Shaikh Mahmoud.\n\nIn 1323, Baghdad Khatun married Amir Shaikh Hasan Buzurg, the son of Amir Husayn Kurkan, the son of Amir Aq Buqa Jalayir. In 1325 Abu Sa'id, at the aged twenty, fell in love with Baghdad and wanted to marry her, although she was married to Shaikh Hasan. He requested her hand from her father Chupan through intermediaries. At that time it was understood that according to the Genggisid\nlaw any woman sought by the Khan was to be given a divorce by her husband and sent to the emperor's harem.\n\nOn the other hand, Chupan did not obey Abu Sa'id's order in the case of his own daughter. In fact, Chupan did not refused his order openly, but he put him off. He sent his daughter and son-in-law to Qarabagh and Abu Sa'id to Baghdad for the winter. But after the winter, Chupan did not give any answer to Abu Sa'id and in order to relive the situation, he realized that the best course of action was for him to absent himself from the emperor’s court for a few days. When he went, he took vizier Giyath al-Mulk and other amirs, which provoked the Sultan against him.\n\nWhen Chupan left for Khurasan, the rival amirs\ninstigated the Abu Sa'id against Chupan’s son Dimasq Kaja, and had him executed in 1327. After the execution of his son, Chupan spoke reproachfully about Abu Sa'id, and in a\ncombat with his soldiers he was killed.\n\nAfter Chupan, there was no hindrance for Abu Sa‘id to marry Baghdad. This time, he sent Qazi to ask Baghdad form her husband Hasan. Bagdad was divorced and married by Abu Sa'id. After her marriage, Baghdad began to take an active part in all administrative and fiscal affairs. Abu Said gave her very rich yarlighs, it means besides her political power, she had also very rich economic resources. She became very effective in political matters with vizier Giyath al-Din Mahmud Rashidi. She took revenge of her father and her brother. By using this opportunity she executed enemies of her father and her brothers. Abu Sa'id's mother, Hajji Khatun regarded Baghdad as a rival to her influence over Abu Sa'id.\n\nShe received the title Khodawandigar (Great lord). Using her power, Baghdad Khatun prevented the marriage of Chupan's widow Korducin Khatun to Malik Ghiyath ud-Din of Herat, who had murdered her father in 1327. She had also managed to gain respectful treatment of her stepmother Sati Beg Khatun and Sati's son Surgan.\n\nIn 1331-32, it was said that Baghdad Khatun and her former husband Shaikh Hasan met secretly, and even made a plan to kill Abu Sa'id. One year later, it was understood that this was only gossip, but this event curbed their power and he was appointed as governor of\nAnatolia. During this time, Abu Sa'id fell in love with Dilshad Khatun, Baghdad's niece, the daughter of Dimasq Kaja and granddaughter of Chupan. He divorced Baghdad and married her in 1333. Baghdad lost her power and authority to a great extent. At the end of life, he was not happy with his wives, but Dilshad loved very much. Therefore, Baghdad became very jealous.\n\nAfter Abu Sa'id's death in 1335, Arpa Ke'un was crowned on the Ilkhanid realm but Baghdad did not obeyed him and he executed her with the pretext of her secret alliance with the enemy Öz Beg Khan and poisoning of Abu Sa'id. She was beaten to death by Khwaja Lulu, a Greek slave in the bath on 16 December 1335.\n"}
{"id": "1880655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880655", "title": "Warning label", "text": "Warning label\n\nA warning label is a label attached to an item, or contained in an item's instruction manual, warning the user about risks associated with the use of the item, and may include restrictions by the manufacturer or seller on certain uses. Most of them are placed to limit civil liability in lawsuits against the item's manufacturer or seller. That sometimes results in labels which for some people seem to state the obvious.\n\nIn the United States warning labels were instituted under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938. Cigarettes were not required to have warning labels in the United States until in 1965 Congress passed the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (FCLAA).\n\nWarning labels have been produced for different items. In some cases, these labels warn against some very strange occurrences such as the legendary microwave warning that states 'do not dry pets in microwave'.\n\nSome companies hold 'strange warning label competitions' such as the former M-law wacky warning labels competition.\n\nWhile many safe products intended for human consumption may require warning labels due to the health risks associated with using them, it is only tobacco products that have strongly worded warnings on their health risks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1880656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880656", "title": "Phantasmagoria", "text": "Phantasmagoria\n\nPhantasmagoria (, also fantasmagorie, fantasmagoria) was a form of horror theatre that (among other techniques) used one or more magic lanterns to project frightening images such as skeletons, demons, and ghosts onto walls, smoke, or semi-transparent screens, typically using rear projection to keep the lantern out of sight. Mobile or portable projectors were used, allowing the projected image to move and change size on the screen, and multiple projecting devices allowed for quick switching of different images. In many shows the use of spooky decoration, total darkness, (auto-)suggestive verbal presentation, and sound effects were also key elements. Some shows added all kinds of sensory stimulation, including smells and electric shocks. Even required fasting, fatigue (late shows) and drugs have been mentioned as methods of making sure spectators would be more convinced of what they saw. The shows started under the guise of actual séances in Germany in the late 18th century, and gained popularity through most of Europe (including Britain) throughout the 19th century.\n\nThe word \"phantasmagoria\" has also been commonly used to indicate changing successions or combinations of fantastic, bizarre or imagined imagery.\n\nFrom French \"phantasmagorie\", from Ancient Greek φάντασμα (\"phántasma\", “ghost”) + possibly either αγορά (\"agorá\", “assembly, gathering”) + the suffix -ia, or ἀγορεύω (\"agoreúō\", “to speak publicly”).\n\nPaul Philidor announced his show of ghost apparitions and evocation of the shadows of famous people as \"Phantasmagorie\" in the Parisian periodical \"Affiches, annonces et avis divers\" of December 16, 1792. About two weeks earlier the term had been the title of a letter by a certain \"A.L.M.\", published in \"Magazin Encyclopédique\". The letter also promoted Phylidor's show. Phylidor had previously advertised his show as \"Phantasmorasi\" in Vienna in March 1790.\n\nThe English variation \"Phantasmagoria\" was introduced as the title of M. De Philipsthal's show of optical illusions and mechanical pieces of art in London in 1801. De Philipsthal and Philidor are believed to have been the same person.\n\nSome ancient sightings of gods and spirits are thought to have been conjured up by means of (concave) mirrors, camera obscura or magic lantern projections. By the 16th century necromantic ceremonies and the conjuring of ghostly apparitions by charlatan \"magicians\" and \"witches\" seemed commonplace.\nIn the 1589 version of \"Magia Naturalis\", Giambattista della Porta described how to scare people with a projected image. A picture of anything that would terrify the beholder should be placed in front of a camera obscura hole, with several torches around it. The image should be projected onto a sheet hanging in the middle of the nascent dark chamber, where spectators wouldn't notice the sheet but only see the projected image hanging in the air.\n\nIn his 1613 book \"Opticorum Libri Sex\" Belgian Jesuit mathematician, physicist and architect François d'Aguilon described how some charlatans cheated people out of their money by claiming they knew necromancy and would raise the specters of the devil from hell and show these to the audience inside a dark room. The image of an assistant with a devil's mask was projected through a lens into the dark room, scaring the uneducated spectators.\n\nThe earliest pictures known to have been projected with lanterns were Death, hell and monsters:\n\n\nWhile surviving slides and descriptions of lantern shows from the following decades included all kinds of subjects, scary pictures remained popular.\n\nThe last decades of the 18th century saw the rise of the age of Romanticism. There was an obsession with the bizarre and the supernatural. This movement had elements of the bizarre and irrational, and included the rise of the Gothic novel. The popular interest in such topics explained the rise and, more specifically, the success of phantasmagoria for the productions to come.\n\nThe magic lantern was a good medium to project fantasies as its imagery was not as tangible as in other media. Since demons were believed to be incorporeal, the magic lantern could produce very fitting representations.\nWhen magicians started to use the magic lantern in shows, some special effects were thought up. French physician, inventor and manufacturer of conjuring apparatus and scientific instruments Edmé-Gilles Guyot described several techniques in his 1770 book \"Nouvelles récréations physiques et mathématiques\", including the projection of ghosts on smoke.\n\nIn the early 1770s in Leipzig, Germany, coffeehouse owner, charlatan, necromancer and leader of an independent Freemason lodge Johann Georg Schrepfer (or Schröpfer) performed ghost-raising séances and necromantic experiments for his Freemason lodge. For typical necromantic activity, his followers were asked to fast for 24 hours and were served a salad (possibly drugged) and much punch before the midnight start of séances in a darkened room with a black-draped altar. A robed Schrepfer performed the rituals and demanded his followers to remain seated at a table or face terrible dangers if they didn't.\n\nHe made use of a mixture of Masonic, Catholic and Kabbalistic symbolism, including skulls, a chalk circle on the floor, holy water, incense and crucifixes. The spirits he raised were said to be clearly visible, hovering in the air, vaporous and sometimes screaming terribly. The highlight of his career was a séance for the court in the Dresden palace early in the summer of 1774. This event was impressive enough to still be described more than a century later in Germany and Britain.\n\nApparitions reportedly raised by Schrepfer over the years included Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, the beheaded Danish \"traitors\" Johann Friedrich Struensee and Enevold Brandt with their heads in their hands, and the Knights Templars' last Grand Master Jacques de Molay. During a séance in Dresden, Schrepfer ordered De Molay's spirit to bring a letter to a companion in Frankfurt. De Molay obeyed and returned half an hour later with an answer signed in Frankfurt by the companion. Another spirit appeared engulfed in flames begging Schrepfer not to torture him so.\n\nIn the early morning of October 8, 1774, Schrepfer reportedly committed suicide with a pistol in a park with five friends present. According to legend he was a victim of delusions about his necromantic abilities and convinced he could resurrect himself afterwards. However, there are several indications that he may actually have been murdered.\n\nMost spectators of Schrepfer's séances were convinced that the apparitions they saw were real. No clear evidence of deceit seems to ever have been found, but critics have described several suspicions. The techniques that Schrepfer reportedly used for his elaborate effects included actors performing as ghosts, ventriloquism, hidden speaking tubes, glass harmonica sounds, aromatic smoke, camera obscura projections and/or magic lantern projections on smoke, concave mirror projections and staged thunder.\n\nSchrepfer had been friends with pharmacist and Freemason Johann Heinrich Linck the Younger and regularly held lodge meetings at Linck's garden house. Linck could have been helping Schrepfer with drugs and chemicals and also knew about the workings of optical and acoustic devices. Linck owned a magic lantern which was decorated with a crucifix and a skull with wings.\n\nSoon after Schrepfer's death, there was a boom of publications attacking or defending his supposed abilities to raise ghosts, expanding Schrepfer's fame across Europe. Several publications included explanations of techniques he might have used to conjure apparitions, which inspired several people to recreate Schrepfer's séances. Christlieb Benedikt Funk, Professor of Physics at the Leipzig University, was possibly the first to publicly re-create such ghost-raising demonstrations; however, he was ordered to stop by the university's authorities.\n\nThe magician \"physicist\" Phylidor, also known as \"Paul Filidort\" and probably the same as Paul de Philipsthal, created what may have been the first true phantasmagoria show in 1790. After a first ghost-raising session in Berlin in 1789 led to accusations of fraud and expulsion from Prussia, Phylidor started to market his necromantic shows as an art that revealed how charlatans fooled their audiences. His improved show, possibly making use of the recently invented Argand lamp, was a success in Vienna from 1790 to 1792. Phylidor advertised these shows as \"Schröpferischen, und Cagliostoischen Geister-Erscheinungen\" (Schröpfer-esque and Cagiostro-esque Ghost Apparitions) and as \"Phantasmorasi\".\n\nRenowned German showman Johann Carl Enslen (1759-1848) is thought to have purchased Philidor's equipment when Phylidor left Vienna in 1792. He presented his own phantasmagoria shows in Berlin, with the King of Prussia attending a show on 23 June 1796. Enslen moved the lantern to produce the illusion of moving ghosts and used multiple lanterns for transformation effects. There were other showmen who followed in Phylidor's footsteps, including \"physicist\" Von Halbritter who even adapted the name of Phylidor's shows as \"Phantasmorasie - Die natürliche Geister-Erscheinung nach der Schröpferischen Erfindung\".\n\nFrom December 1792 to July 1793 \"Paul Filidort\" presented his \"Phantasmagorie\" in Paris, probably using the term for the first time. It is assumed Etienne-Gaspard Robertson visited one of these shows and was inspired to present his own \"Fantasmagorie\" shows a few years later.\n\nIn October 1801 a phantasmagoria production by Paul de Philipsthal opened in London's Lyceum Theatre in the Strand, where it became a smash hit.\n\nÉtienne-Gaspard \"Robertson\" Robert, a Belgian inventor and physicist from Liège, became the best known phantasmagoria showman. He is credited for coining the word \"fantascope\", and would refer to all of his magic lanterns by this term. The fantascope was not a magic lantern that could be held by hand, but instead required someone to stand next to it and physically move the entire fantascope closer or further to the screen. He would often eliminate all sources of light during his shows in order to cast the audience in total darkness for several minutes at a time. Robertson would also lock the doors to the theater so that no audience member could exit the show once it had started. He was also known for including multiple sound effects into his show, such as thunder clapping, bells ringing, and ghost calls. Robertson would pass his glass slides through a layer of smoke while they were in his fantascope, in order to create an image that looked out of focus. Along with the smoke, he would also move most of his glass slides through his fantascope very quickly in order to create the illusion that the images were actually moving on screen.\n\nRobertson's first \"Fantasmagorie\" was presented in 1797 at the Pavillon de l'Echiquier in Paris. The macabre atmosphere in the post-revolutionary city was perfect for Robertson's Gothic extravaganza complete with elaborate creations and Radcliffean décor.\n\nAfter discovering that he could put the magic lantern on wheels to create either a moving image or one that increased and decreased in size, Robertson moved his show. He sited his entertainment in the abandoned cloisters kitchen of a Capuchin convent (which he decorated to resemble a subterranean chapel) near the Place Vendôme. He staged hauntings, using several lanterns, special sound effects and the eerie atmosphere of the tomb. This show lasted for six years, mainly because of the appeal of the supernatural to Parisians who were dealing with the upheavals as a result of the French Revolution. Robertson mainly used images surrounded by black in order to create the illusion of free-floating ghosts. He also would use multiple projectors, set up in different locations throughout the venue, in order to place the ghosts in environments. For instance, one of his first phantasmagoria shows displayed a lightning-filled sky with both ghosts and skeletons receding and approaching the audience. In order to add to the horror, Robertson and his assistants would sometimes create voices for the phantoms. Often, the audience forgot that these were tricks and were completely terrified:\n\nIn fact, many people were so convinced of the reality of his shows that police temporarily halted the proceedings, believing that Robertson had the power to bring Louis XVI back to life. Once the show was back, Robertson was exposed to the law again, this time in the form of a lawsuit against his former assistants who had started their own phantasmagoria shows using his techniques. It was this lawsuit in 1799 in which Robertson was required to reveal his secrets to the public and magic lantern shows popped up across Europe and in the United States shortly after, though many were not as elaborate as Robertson's.\n\nPhantasmagoria came to the United States in May 1803 at Mount Vernon Garden, New York. Much like the French Revolution sparked interest in phantasmagoria in France, the expanding frontier in the United States made for an atmosphere of uncertainty and fear that was ideal for phantasmagoria shows. Many others created phantasmagoria shows in the United States over the next couple of years, including Martin Aubée, one of Robertson's former assistants.\n\nThomas Young proposed a system that could keep the projected image in focus for a lantern on a small cart with rods adjusting the position of the lens when the cart was wheeled closer or further away from the screen.\n\nJohn Evelyn Barlas was an English poet who had written for several phantasmagoria shows during the late 1880s. He used the pseudonym \"Evelyn Douglas\" for most of the works written for phantasmagoria. He has written several different works, most of them focusing on the idea of dreams and nightmares. Some of his works include \"Dreamland, A Dream of China, \"and \"Dream Music\". His work is known for including extravagant descriptions of settings with multiple colors. Most of Barlas' work also mentions flames and fire. The flames are meant to represent the burning of emotions laced throughout Barlas' poems, and fit well within the realm of phantasmagoria.\n\nBy the 1840s phantasmagoria became already outmoded, though the use of projections was still employed, just in different realms:\n\nBefore the rise of phantasmagoria, interest in the fantastic was apparent in ghost stories. This can be seen in the many examples of ghost stories printed in the 18th century, including \"Admiral Vernon's ghost; being a full true and particular Account as how a Warlike apparition appeared last Week to the Author, Clad all in Scarlet, And discoursed to him concerning the Present State of Affairs\" (1758). In this tale, the author's reaction to the ghost he sees is much like that of the audience members at the phantasmagoria shows. He says that he is \"thunderstruck\", and that \"astonishment seized me. My bones shivered within me. My flesh trembled over me. My lips quaked. My mouth opened. My hands expanded. My knees knocked together. My blood grew chilly, and I froze with terror.\"\n\nFrench painters of the time, including Ingres and Girodet, derived ideas for paintings from the phantasmagoria, and its influence spread as far as J. M. W. Turner.\n\nWalter Benjamin was fascinated by the phantasmagoria and used it as a term to describe the experience of the Arcades in Paris. In his essays, he associated phantasmagoria with commodity culture and its experience of material and intellectual products. In this way, Benjamin expanded upon Marx's statement on the phantasmagorical powers of the commodity.\n\nEarly stop trick films developed by Georges Méliès most clearly parallel the early forms of phantasmagoria. Trick films include transformations, superimpositions, disappearances, rear projections, and the frequent appearance of ghosts and apparent decapitations. \nModern-day horror films often take up many of the techniques and motifs of stop trick films, and phantasmagoria is said to have survived in this new form.\n\nMaria Jane Jewsbury produced a volume entitled \"Phantasmagoria, or Sketches of Life and Literature\", published by Hurst Robinson & Co, in 1825. This consists of a number of essays on various subjects together with poetry. The whole is dedicated to William Wordsworth.\n\n\"Phantasmagoria\" is also the title of a poem in seven cantos by Lewis Carroll that was published by Macmillan & Sons in London in 1869, about which Carroll had much to say. He preferred that the title of the volume be found at the back, saying in a correspondence with Macmillan, \"it is picturesque and fantastic—but that is about the only thing I like…\" He also wished that the volume would cost less, thinking that the 6 shillings was about 1 shilling too much to charge.\n\nPhantasmagoria's influence on Disney can be found in the countless effects throughout the themed lands and attractions at the theme parks but are likely most memorable in the practical and projection effects of the Haunted Mansion (at Disneyland, Walt Disney World and Tokyo Disneyland), and Phantom Manor (at Disneyland Paris), as well live shows such as \"Fantasmic\" (at Disneyland and Disney's Hollywood Studios), which feature film/video projections on water screens.\n\nA series of photographs taken from 1977 to 1987 by photographer and model Cindy Sherman are described as portraying the phantasmagoria of the female body. Her photographs include herself as the model, and the progression of the series as a whole presents the phantasmagoric space projected both onto and into the female body.\n\nThe 1995 survival-horror video game \"Phantasmagoria\" is partly based upon these performances. In the game, several flashbacks are shown to fictional phantasmagorias performed by the magician \"Carno\". However, unlike the real shows, his are much more graphic and violent in nature.\n\nA few modern theatrical troupes in the United States and United Kingdom stage phantasmagoria projection shows, especially at Halloween.\n\nFrom February 15 to May 1, 2006, the Tate Britain staged \"The Phantasmagoria\" as a component of its show \"Gothic Nightmares: Fuseli, Blake and the Romantic Imagination.\" It recreated the content of the 18th and 19th century presentations, and successfully evoked their tastes for horror and fantasy.\n\nIn 2006, David J. Jones discovered the precise site of Robertson's show at the Capuchin convent. See David J. Jones, 'Gothic Machine: Textualities, Pre-Cinematic Media and Film in \nPopular Visual Culture', 1670-1910 (Cardiff: University of Wales).\n\n\n\n"}
