{"id": "1897976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897976", "title": "Isaiah &quot;Ikey&quot; Owens", "text": "Isaiah &quot;Ikey&quot; Owens\n\nRandolph Isaiah \"Ikey\" Owens (December 1, 1974 – October 14, 2014) was an American Grammy Award winning keyboardist known for his work with The Mars Volta, Jack White and an array of bands from the Long Beach music scene.\n\nHe notably performed as a member of Long Beach Dub Allstars, but in 1998 it was an encounter with Cedric Bixler-Zavala and Omar Rodríguez-López of At the Drive-In at a concert in Irvine which proved fateful. In 1999 Owens lost his job at a financial management firm in Huntington Beach that \"helped handle billion-dollar accounts for Disney and the Catholic Church\", but he eventually received an invitation to join the dub reggae band De Facto and found himself touring Europe with Omar, Cedric, and Jeremy Ward. Not long after that he was once again invited to join their new project, The Mars Volta. Since then Owens was notable for being the longest tenured member of the Mars Volta outside Bixler-Zavala and Rodriguez-Lopez, having continually recorded and performed with the band since their 2001 inception, although this came to an end in 2011 when he was not asked by Rodriguez-Lopez to accompany The Mars Volta on their summer tour. The reasons for this decision are currently unknown, although on July 2 Mars Volta bassist Juan Alderete claimed that Owens was currently \"producing bands these days.\" Juan later noted, \"He had some conflicts in his scheduling, and then it all just naturally evolved into what it is today. Ikey is awesome. I miss dinners with him.\"\n\nOwens was also very active outside the Mars Volta. Beginning in 2002, Owens wrote and recorded solo material under the moniker Free Moral Agents, releasing a vinyl-only EP on Pete Records, as well as a GSL split 12\" with Subtitle. They released their full-length \"Everybody's Favorite Weapon\" in 2004. He played with Pocket Lent, Teen Heroes and did session and work and live shows with El-P, Dave Sitek from TV on the Radio, Shuggie Otis, The Aquabats, Blowfly, Barrington Levy, Mastodon, Gravy Train!!!!, Born Jamericans, Wailing Souls, Radioinactive, Heavens, Prefuse 73, Bob Forrest, and poet/spoken word artist Saul Williams. Owens worked with 2Mex as hip hop duo the Look Daggers. In 2007, Ikey produced \"First You Live\" by Orange County progressive-folk band Dusty Rhodes and the River Band.\nOwens was also seen playing with the Long Beach experimental band Crystal Antlers. Free Moral Agents released their second full-length album \"Control This\" in the fall of 2010 (9/28), the first album with the band's expanded line-up.\n\nOwens later became part of Jack White's all-male backup band The Buzzards, playing keyboards, organ and piano. He took part in the world tour in support of White's album \"Blunderbuss\", and later also performed on White's second album, \"Lazaretto\", and was in the middle of the supporting tour of the album at the time of his death.\n\nOn October 14, 2014, Owens was found dead due to a heart attack in his hotel room in Puebla, Mexico, aged 39. Two remaining concerts in Mexico in support of Jack White's album, \"Lazaretto\", were cancelled. The band had played in Mexico City three days earlier, in Puebla one night before the incident, and were scheduled to perform in Guadalajara the day of his death.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1897981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897981", "title": "Tangail District", "text": "Tangail District\n\nTangail () formerly Tangail Upzilla of Greater Mymensingh district is a district (\"zila\") in the central region of Bangladesh. It is the largest district of Dhaka division by area and second largest by population (after Dhaka district). The population of Tangail zila is about 3.8 million and its area is . The main city of the district is Tangail. It is surrounded by Jamalpur District on the north, the Dhaka and Manikganj Districts on the south, the Mymensingh and Gazipur on the east, and the Sirajganj on the west.\n\nUntil 1969, Tangail was part of Greater Mymensingh. Tangail was made a separate district due to suppress Mymensingh District's dominion. Before partition of 6 Upazila incident Mymensingh District's economic growth was higher than the capital Dhaka. To suppress Mymensingh, Greater Mymensingh was separate from their 7 out of 6 Upazila Tangail, Sherpur, Jamalpur, Netrokona (presently known as District) History of Mymensingh#cite note-Iffat Ara 1989-16 from Mymensingh. And 6 sub-district were promoted to district status to avoid conflict with Dhaka. Thus Tangail district was born. The main rivers that cross the Tangail district are the Jamuna, Dhaleshwari, Jhenai, Bangshi, Louhajang, Langulia, Elongjani, Jugni, Pouli, Fotikjani and the Turag.\n\nThe subdivision of Tangail was established in 1870. It was turned into a district on 1 December 1969. The district consists of 11 municipalities, 108 wards of these municipalities, 109 Union Parishads and 2516 villages.\n\nTangail district is subdivided into 12 Upazilas:\n\nAccording to the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics 2011, the total population of Tangail District was 3749085.\n\nReligion :Muslim 93%, Hindu 6.5% and Christian 0.4%\n\nThe total area of the zila is 3414.28 km (1318.00 sq mi), of which 497.27 km (192.00 sq mi) is forested. The zila lies between 24° 01′ and 24° 47′ north latitudes and between 89° 44′ and 90° 18′ east longitudes.\n\nTangail has a tropical climate. In winter, there is much less rainfall than in summer. According to Köppen and Geiger, this climate is classified as Aw. The temperature here averages 25.5 °C. About 1872 mm of precipitation falls annually.\n\nTangail district is flanked on the west by the Jamuna River, which is over 4 miles wide during the rainy season. The Dhaleswari, first an old channel of the Ganges and then of the Brahmaputra, cuts across the southwestern comer of the district on its powerful sweep to join the Meghna near Narayanganj. The old name of Dhaleswari was \"Gajghata\". It used to flow afterward by the\nSalimabad channel and then at last by Porabari channel.\n\nA part of the eastern boundary of the district runs close to the Banar river. The river Bangshi flows almost down the middle of the district, branching out from the old Brahmaputra to the north from near Jamalpur. Bangshi falls into Dhaleswari near Savar, in Dhaka district. The Bangshi forms a natural barrier to the Madhupur Jungle on the Tangail side, all the way from Madhupur to Mirzapur. It is only fordable at two or three places near Basail on its way to river Meghna. Dhaleswari itself, however, takes out from the Jamuna from inside Tangail district.\n\nAmong other important rivers of the district, Lohajang is worth mentioning. It flows past the district headquarters of Tangail and is almost dead at present (in moribund condition). Other rivers are Khiru, Nanglai Nadi, Atai, Elengjani, Fatikjani, Bairan and Jhinai. The old Brahmaputra's most important offshoot is the Jhinai; striking off near Jamalpur it rejoins the Jamuna north of Sarishabari, while another branch flows past Gopalpur. Now these subsystems of rivers, viz Bangshi and Banar, and the Lohajang, Khiru, Nangtai Nadi, Atia and Jhinai are dying out because of the shift of the old Brahmaputra river from its former channel to the present Jamuna channel.\n\nIn Tangail, the average literacy rate as of the 2011 census was 47.8%; male 50%, female 43.8%.\n\nBefore the Liberation War, some educational institutions were established by notable persons of Tangail. Santosh Jahnnabi High School was established in 1870. It is the oldest school in Tangail and the second oldest in the greater Mymensingh district. Bindubasini Govt. Boys' High School was established. In 1880 and Bindubasini Govt Girls' High School was established in 1882. Both are in downtown, Tangail. These are nationally rewarded double shift schools.\n\nIn 1926, the Government Saadat University College was established by Wazed Ali Khan Panni, a zamindar and educationalist of Tangail. He named it after the name of his grandfather Saadat Ali Khan Panni. Govt. M.M. Ali College was established by Maulana Abdul Hamid Khan Bhasani at Kagmari (1 km from the main city) is one of the (First Govt. College) topmost colleges in Bangladesh. Kumudini College was established in 1943 by Ranada Prasad Saha (R.P. Saha), philanthropist of Tangail. He named it after his mother Kumudini. Later the college was converted into Kumudini Government Women's College. He also established Bharateswari Homes in 1945 at Mirzapur. He named it after his grandmother Bharateswari Devi. Mirzapur Cadet College, the third cadet college of Bangladesh, was established in 1963. The then president of Pakistan Field Marshal Ayub Khan took initiatives to establish this cadet college. The famous Neogi family of Tangail, till the time they left during Partition, contributed much to the spread of education, with other zamindar families like the Roy Chowdhuris and the Majumdars.\n\nCurrently, there are five government high schools in the city: Bindu Basini Govt. Boys' High School and Bindu Basini Govt. Girls' High School (established in 1880 and 1882 respectively by zamindar of Santosh—the famous Roy Chowdhury family who were co-founders of the East Bengal club of Calcutta), Shibnath High School, Vivekananda high school, Police Lines high school, Zilla Sadar girls' high school and Santosh Jannabi Govt. high school.\n\nTangail has 341 non-government high schools, 86 satellite schools, 5 government colleges, 48 non-government colleges, 3 university colleges, 2 textile engineering colleges, 1 medical college, 1 law college, 1 homoeopathy college, 1 polytechnic institute, 1 Medical assistant training school, 2 nursing institutes, 1 police academy, 202 madrasas, 40 secondary schools (SSC), 941 government primary schools, 395 non-government primary schools, 1 teachers' training school, 146 community primary schools and 1304 NGO-operated schools. There is a technical university named Mawlana Bhashani Science and Technology University at Santosh, Tangail. A government medical college (Tangail medical college) is located at Sabalia area of tangail sadar. Tangail medical college was established in 2014.\n\nThe urban growth rate of Tangail District is increasing as it is close to the capital of Bangladesh, Dhaka. There are 11 municipalities in Tangail District. Tangail municipality is planned to be converted into a City Corporation in next couple of years alongside 11 other old district headquarters of Bangladesh.\n\nAgriculture is the main occupation of the Tangail district. About 49.53% of people are involved with agricultural activities. Its main agricultural products are paddy, potato, jute, sugarcane, sesame, linseed, wheat, mustard seed and pulse. About 3,386.53 km² cultivable lands are available in Tangail. The main fruit products are mangos, jackfruit, bananas, litchis, and pineapples. Other sectors, such as fisheries (446), dairies (189), industries, weaving and poultry farms (538) are developing in the Tangail district. Tangail is the home of the weavers of the world-famous \"Tangail Saree\".\n\nTangail Sari a handloom saree made of cotton and silk thread having hand-worked butti design, all-over flowery design, or contemporary art motif is appreciated, bought, and used by women and girls of Bangladeshi and Indian origin all over the world. Tangail Saris are famous at home and abroad. Large numbers of sarees are sold on the occasion of Eid, Puja, Pahela Boishakh and wedding season between November and February. The weavers get orders from home and abroad. Tangail Sarees are produced in Tangail Sadar Upazila, Delduar Upazila and Kalihati Upazila. Pathrail in Delduar Upazila and Barabelta, Kabilapara (Porabari Union) in Sadar Upazila are famous for fine and expensive sarees.\n\nA survey conducted in 2013 said there were 60,000 looms in Tangail. Of them, 8,305 are pit looms, 51,141 are Chittranjan looms and 892 are power looms. About labourers, owners and traders are connected with the profession. The factories have been producing Tangail sarees worth Tk 300-Tk 20,000 apiece.\n\nThere are many industries growing rapidly in Gorai Industrial Area. These include Square Group, Nasir Glassware industry, Olympic Battery, North Bengal cycle industry, and Tangail Cotton mill. There are many garments and textiles in Gorai. BSCIC Tarotia also has some industries. Alauddin Textile mill is in Tangail.\n\n\nThe members of the national parliament are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1897987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897987", "title": "Lakefront Airport", "text": "Lakefront Airport\n\nLakefront Airport is a public use airport located four nautical miles (5 mi, 7 km) northeast of the central business district of New Orleans, in Orleans Parish, Louisiana, United States. Owned by the Orleans Levee District, it is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015, which categorized it as a general aviation \"reliever airport\".\n\nOriginally the major commercial airport in the New Orleans area, Lakefront Airport relinquished that role in 1946 when commercial airline service began from Moisant International Airport (now known as Louis Armstrong International Airport), a significantly larger facility located in the nearby suburb of Kenner. Lakefront Airport continues to serve as a general aviation airport with charter, private, and occasional military operations taking place. Commercial airline service is also available to destinations within the Gulf South Region. The terminal building's interior retains much of its original lavish 1930s decoration, and the art deco exterior, obscured for decades by a \"bomb-proof\" facade installed after World War II, has recently been returned to its original appearance. The terminal building houses a restaurant frequented by nearby residents, the Walnut Room. The sculpture installation in front of the terminal, \"Fountain of the Winds\" by Enrique Alferez, is a local landmark.\n\nLakefront Airport was damaged by hurricane-force winds and the storm surge of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, and a number of the hangars and outlying buildings were destroyed. While the airport soon resumed functioning, restoration of the terminal building and other facilities proceeds slowly. With the exterior of the main terminal fully restored, however, the classic Art Deco building was used as the headquarters of the fictional company Ferris Aircraft in the 2011 action hero film Green Lantern starring Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively.\n\nThe New Orleans Lakefront Airport has also hosted since 2014 the WWII Air, Sea & Land Festival. The three-day airshow hosted by the National WWII Museum, Commemorative Air Force, and the Greater New Orleans Sports Foundation honor the men and women of WWII through aviation displays, vehicle displays, and WWII re-enactments.\n\nAirport construction began in 1929 by orders of Huey Long, on a man-made peninsula dredged by the Orleans Levee Board, jutting into Lake Pontchartrain on the Eastern New Orleans side of the Industrial Canal. It was designed by New Orleans architect Leon C. Weiss and his architectural firm Weiss, Dreyfous and Seiferth, which also designed the Louisiana State Capitol. It was originally named Shushan Airport after Levee Board president and Long ally Abraham Shushan. The airport was inaugurated on 10 February 1934. Visitors noticed that every doorknob, window sill, countertop, and plumbing fixture either had the name or the initials of Abe Shushan. After Shushan's name was tarnished from involvement in the Louisiana Scandals of the late 1930s, the airport was renamed New Orleans Airport in 1939.\n\nThe assigned airport code \"NEW\" is retained despite its current \"Lakefront Airport\" name.\n\nDuring World War II, the airfield was used by the United States Army Air Forces and housed the Tropical Weather School in 1945.\n\nAt the start of the 1960s, thick concrete panels were added to the main terminal building to turn it into a Cold War era bomb shelter.\n\nAmmunition manufacturer Joyce Hornady was killed in a Piper Aztec on January 15, 1981. The aircraft, with Hornady at the controls flying in heavy fog, crashed into Lake Pontchartrain while on final approach to Lakefront Airport.\n\nLakefront Airport was badly damaged by storm surge during Hurricane Katrina in 2005, and again during Hurricane Isaac in 2012. While the airport was quickly brought back to service, many facilities remained in temporary trailers for years after Katrina.\n\nOn January 23, 2010, a United States Navy Beechcraft T-34 Mentor training aircraft crashed into Lake Ponchartrain just over one mile from the approach end of the airport. The aircraft was intending to land at Naval Air Station-Joint Reserve Base New Orleans but diverted to Lakefront Airport due to weather. The student pilot on board survived, however, the instructor drowned. According to official reports, the aircrew lost track of their altitude which resulted in their ditching in the lake.\n\nPost-Katrina reconstruction at the airport has included restoration of the main terminal building's original Art Deco facade. The Art Deco interior and restoration of the Shushan terminal is being filmed for a television documentary titled, \"Return Flight\". Filming began in 2012 and will conclude in 2013 when the restoration draws to a close.\n\nLakefront Airport covers an area of 473 acres (191 ha) at an elevation of 7 feet (2 m) above mean sea level. It has three asphalt paved runways: 18R/36L is 6,879 by 150 feet (2,097 x 46 m); 18L/36R is 3,697 by 75 feet (1,127 x 23 m); 9/27 is 3,114 by 75 feet (949 x 23 m).\n\nFor the 12-month period ending July 19, 2016, the airport had 60,778 aircraft operations, an average of 166 per day: 91% general aviation, 3% military, and 6% air taxi. At that time there were 125 aircraft based at this airport: 62% single-engine, 18% multi-engine, 15% jet, and 6% helicopter.\n\nThe airport was used as a location in the 1973 James Bond film Live and Let Die.\n\nThe airport was the filming location of the film The Green Lantern starring Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1897988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897988", "title": "M-115 (Michigan highway)", "text": "M-115 (Michigan highway)\n\nM-115 is a state trunkline highway in the northwestern part of the Lower Peninsula of the US state of Michigan. The highway takes a generally southeast-to-northwest direction between Frankfort on Lake Michigan and Clare in the central part of the state. The northwestern end is at M-22 next to Betsie Lake; the southeastern end in downtown Clare is at an intersection with Business US Highway 127 (Bus. US 127) and Bus. US 10. In between, the trunkline runs about through woodlands, including areas that are a part of either the Manistee National Forest or the Pere Marquette State Forest. The highway also passes agricultural areas, several lakes in the region and a state park near Cadillac.\n\nM-115 was first designated in the 1920s on the northwestern end near Frankfort. Additional, disconnected sections were designed as part of the trunkline in the 1930s near Cadillac, Farwell and Mesick. All but one of these gaps (Cadillac–Mesick) was eliminated by the end of that decade. The remaining segment was built in the 1950s to unite M-115 into a single highway. The last change came in 1989 when the highway was extended into Clare to its current southern terminus.\n\nM-115 starts in downtown Clare at a four-way intersection with the two business loops, Bus. US 127 and Bus. US 10, in town. From this junction, M-115 runs west following the former routing of US 10 along Ludington Drive to Farwell. In the middle of town, M-115 turns northwesterly to meet the end of the US 10 freeway near Surrey Lake. The highway continues northwest through forest lands and lake country. The trunkline passes into northern Osceola County near its crossing of the Muskegon River. There are intersections with both M-66 and M-61 south of Marion near rural farms. The roadway subsequently crosses into southern Wexford County. Near Stone Lake south of Cadillac, M-115 meets US 131 and M-55. M-55 leaves the US 131 freeway and joins M-115, and the two run concurrently along the western end of Lake Cadillac. They separate near Lake Mitchell, and M-115 turns northwesterly between the two lakes passing Mitchell State Park and the eastern shore of the latter lake.\n\nPast the Cadillac area, M-115 runs through the northeastern corner of the Manistee National Forest. The highway continues through woodlands, passing several small lakes in the area as it approaches the community of Mesick. There it turns due west and joins M-37 through town. After M-37 separates to the south, M-115 crosses the Manistee River and continues its northwestern course. The highway crosses the northeastern corner of Manistee County and runs through the community of Copemish on the way to Benzonia. The landscape here turns more agricultural as the highway skirts southwest of Thompsonville crossing the Betsie River.\n\nAfter the river crossing, the highway enters Benzie County and runs through the Pere Marquette State Forest. South of Benzonia, M-115 runs concurrently with US 31 into town. The highways separate in the center of town where M-115 turns westward to run along the south shore of Crystal Lake past Frankfort Dow Memorial Field, the local airport near Frankfort. M-115 follows Forest Avenue, and the highway designation ends at the intersection in town with M-22 near Betsie Lake.\n\nThe Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) maintains M-115 like all other trunkline highways in the state under its jurisdiction. As a part of these responsibilities, the department tracks traffic volumes along its roadways until a metric called average annual daily traffic (AADT). This number is a calculation of the traffic level along a segment of roadway for any average day of the year. In 2009, MDOT determined that the highest traffic levels along M-115 were the 12,079 vehicles daily along the section of highway near lakes Mitchell and Cadillac. The lowest AADT was the 2,236 vehicles near Copemish. The trunkline between the US 10 and M-37 junctions has been listed on the National Highway System. a network of roads important to the country's defense, economy and mobility.\n\nIn 1929, the first stretch of M-115 was designated from Frankfort to Benzonia. Beginning in the mid-1930s, construction of M-115 began from central to northwestern Lower Michigan. In 1936, an earthen highway was opened between the south side of Cadillac to M-66, with additional sections west of Mesick and northwest of US 10. By the end of the year, the state was paving the earthen section, completed a gravel highway near Mesick and opened an earthen section in Clare County. The section from Copemish to northwest of Mesick was opened as an earthen highway the next year. Construction started in early 1938 to connect Benzonia to Copemish, and before the year was out, the Michigan State Highway Department started work to fill in the gap between M-66 and the highway north of US 10 in Clare County. These two sections were completed as earth-graded highway in 1939. Both discontinuous sections were fully paved by 1945.\n\nIn 1953, a county road was built along the path of the future M-115 between Mesick and Cadillac. This road was designated as a state highway by 1957, with a connection along Boon Road north of Cadillac and a concurrency along US 131 to close the gap in 1957. The Boon Road segment was removed the next year when the routing near Lake Mitchell opened. The southern end of M-115 was truncated slightly when the US 10 freeway bypass of Clare was opened in 1975. M-115 has since been rerouted in 1989 along the two-lane Old US 10 from its original southeastern ending point near the US 10 overpass through Farwell to Clare. A roundabout was built for the intersection with northbound M-37 east of Mesick and was opened in September 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1897996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897996", "title": "Józef Maksymilian Ossoliński", "text": "Józef Maksymilian Ossoliński\n\nCount Józef Kajetan Piotr Maksymilian Ossoliński known as Józef Maksymilian Ossoliński (1748 – 17 March 1826) was a Polish nobleman, landowner, politician, novelist, poet, historian and researcher into literature, historian, translator, lexicographer, bibliophile, a forerunner of Slavic studies and a leading figure of the Polish Enlightenment. He founded the Ossoliński Institute in Lwów to which he donated his immense library and other collections of manuscripts and coins.\nJózef was a member of many learned institutions, and a doctor honoris causa of the Jagiellonian University. He became one of the first Polish politicians from Galicia. He took Austrian citizenship when he became prefect of the Imperial Austrian Library in 1793 in Vienna. He employed Samuel Linde as his \"Gräfliche Ossolinskische Bibliothekar\", librarian of the Ossoliński Library until 1803 and under his patronage compiler of the first Polish Lexicon.\n\nHe was born in Wola Mielecka, near Sandomierz. His father, Michał Ossoliński was castellan of Czchów and owner of the estates at Mielec, Zgórsk, Cyranka, Piątkowiec, Wola Mielecka, Partyn, Izbiska. His mother was Anna Szaniawska. He had a strict upbringing as befitted a young nobleman of the day. Józef was regarded as deeply religious, modest and shy.\n\nFrom 1762 to 1771 he attended the highly rated Jesuit \"Collegium Nobilium\" in Warsaw. He was taught there by distinguished professors, Adam Naruszewicz, poet, historian and editor, Karol Wyrwicz, geographer, historian and educationalist, Franciszek Bohomolec, author of many ruthless satires about the excesses of the nobility and by I. Nagurczewski and J. Albertrandi. All these men belonged to the intellectual circle of the last king of Poland, Stanisław August Poniatowski.\n\nFollowing the First Partition of Poland in 1772 which \"sanctioned\" a land grab by the Habsburg Monarchy, the Ossoliński estates found themselves in the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. Apart from administering the family estates and the occasional trips to Warsaw, Jozef gave himself over to literary pursuits. The Austrians soon awarded him the title of Count. In 1785 he married a relative, Countess Teresa Jabłonowska. The marriage was childless and came to an end in 1791.\n\nBetween 1789 and 1793 he sat on a committee reviewing the administrative constitution of Galicia to little effect. At the same time he was head of a delegation (1790-1793) to Leopold II, Margrave of Austria. In 1792 He travelled around Central Europe, taking in: Saxony, Bavaria, Austria, Czech lands and Moravia. In 1793 he spent some time in Vienna where he frequented Austrian minister, Thugut, which enabled him to be an intermediary between the Austrian government and members of the Kosciuszko Insurrection (1794). At that time he supported a patriotic Polish daily newspaper in Lwów, \"Dziennik Patriotycznych Polaków\" (1792-1798), and lobbied on behalf of imprisoned Polish activists who numbered Hugo Kołłątaj among them.\n\nAfter the Third Partition of Poland (1795) the occupying powers intensified their policies of germanisation and russification closing down native educational establishments, cultural centres and introducing the invader's language into all administrative matters. The greatest loss for Polish culture were the wholesale deportations to Russia of magnificent Polish cultural collections such as the Załuski Library. In the circumstances a number of leading lights in Poland determined to create a national library collection. They included Adam K. Czartoryski of Puławy, Tadeusz Czacki of Krzemieniec and Józef Maksymilian Ossoliński. \nTo this end from 1794 Ossoliňski hired the services of the German, intellectual and bibliographer, Samuel Linde. In the years he spent with Ossoliński he gathered sufficient material for a Polish lexicon, for which he consulted widely in Polish and Slav sources in the count's own collection and benefitted from his mentoring. As a result Linde's fame prospered so that in 1804 he was appointed headmaster of the Warsaw Lyceum.\n\nFrom 1795 Ossoliński settled permanently in Vienna where he devoted himself to research and his passion for books. In that period he began collecting materials on a grand scale for his projected national cultural foundation. In 1808 he was nominated as clandestine consultant to the Austrian court and the following year he became prefect of the Imperial Library, which he successfully defended from looting by Napoleon's invading army. \nHe spent 15 years (1808-1823) as curator of the Galician Economic Institute. He was granted the distinction of Royal Marshall by Emperor Francis I of Austria and honoured with the Order of St Stephen of Hungary and Court Bursar of the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria.\n\nFrom 1800 he was a member of the Society of Friends of Science in Warsaw, the Warsaw Scientific Society, the Wilno Academy, the Kraków Academy, the Royal Societies in Prague and Göttingen, the Imperial Royal Society in Vienna, the University of Vilna and the Moravian-Silesian Agricultural Society. The University of Lwow gave him an Honorary doctorate in philosophy in 1820.\nOssoliński acquired the former Carmelite convent and church in Lwow along with the ruin that was St Agnes' church. A few months later he persuaded Emperor Francis to issue him with a statute for his foundation 8 May 1817. The principal provider of books to Ossoliński was the Lwow bookseller, Karol Wild.\n\nIn his highly complicated act of foundation, Ossoliński laid down the staffing and financial arrangements and made express provision for the publication of a newsletter to report on the scientific progress of the institute. In 1823 Ossoliński agreed with prince Henryk Lubomirski that he should donate his collections to the new library, but as a distinct museum collection.\n\nIn 1820 his health failed badly and in 1823 he lost his sight. He died after a long illness in Vienna in March 1826. His grave has disappeared as it was in the part of the Matzleinsdorf Protestant Cemetery that was given up for road building.\n\nIn 1826 the Galician assembly entrusted Gwalbert Pawlikowski, secretary to the Vienna court, with the task of adopting and cataloguing of Ossoliński's collections in Vienna which he achieved in 10 months and despatched to Lwow. The 52 enormous crates contained 10, 121 works in 19, 055 volumes, plus various journals 567 manuscripts 133 maps and 1445 etchings.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1897997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897997", "title": "Balanced budget", "text": "Balanced budget\n\nA balanced budget (particularly that of a government) is a budget in which revenues are equal to expenditures. Thus, neither a budget deficit nor a budget surplus exists (the accounts \"balance\"). More generally, it is a budget that has no budget deficit, but could possibly have a budget surplus. A \"cyclically\" balanced budget is a budget that is not necessarily balanced year-to-year, but is balanced over the economic cycle, running a surplus in boom years and running a deficit in lean years, with these offsetting over time.\n\nBalanced budgets and the associated topic of budget deficits are a contentious point within academic economics and within politics. Many economists argue that moving from a budget deficit to a balanced budget decreases interest rates, increases investment, shrinks trade deficits and helps the economy grow faster in the longer term.\n\nMainstream economics mainly advocates a cyclic balanced budget, arguing from the perspective of Keynesian economics that permitting the deficit to vary provides the economy with an automatic stabilizer—budget deficits provide fiscal stimulus in lean times, while budget surpluses provide restraint in boom times. Keynesian economics does not advocate for fiscal stimulus when the existing government debt is already significant.\n\nAlternative currents in the mainstream and branches of heterodox economics argue differently, with some arguing that budget deficits are always harmful, and others arguing that budget deficits are not only beneficial, but also necessary.\n\nSchools which often argue against the effectiveness of budget deficits as cyclical tools include the freshwater school of mainstream economics and neoclassical economics more generally, and the Austrian school of economics. Budget deficits are argued to be necessary by some within post-Keynesian economics, notably the chartalist school:\n\nBudget deficits can be calculated by subtracting the total planned expenditure from the total available budget. This will then show either a budget deficit (a negative difference) or a budget surplus (a positive difference).\n\nIn the United States, the fiscal conservatism movement believes that balanced budgets are an important goal. Every state other than Vermont has a balanced budget amendment, providing some form of ban on deficits, while the Oregon kicker bans \"surpluses\" of greater than 2% of revenue. The Colorado Taxpayer Bill of Rights (the TABOR amendment) also bans surpluses, and requires the state to refund taxpayers in event of a budget surplus.\n\nFollowing the over-borrowing in both the public and private sector that led to the Swedish banking crisis of the early 1990s and under influence from a series of reports on the future demographic challenges, a wide political consensus developed on fiscal prudence. In the year 2000 this was enshrined in a law that stated a goal of a surplus of 2% over the business cycle, to be used to pay off the public debt and to secure the long-term future for the cherished welfare state. Today the goal is 1% over the business cycle, as the retirement pension is no longer considered a government expenditure.\n\nIn 2015 George Osborne, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, announced that he intended to implement a law whereby the government must deliver a budget surplus if the economy is growing. Academics have criticised this proposal with Cambridge University professor Ha-Joon Chang saying the chancellor was turning a blind eye to the complexities of a 21st-century economy that demanded governments remain flexible and responsive to changing global events.\n\nSince 1980 there have only been six years when a budget surplus has been delivered, twice whilst the Conservative's John Major was Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1988 and 1989 and four times whilst Labour's Gordon Brown was Chancellor, in 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001.\n\nBecause of the multiplier effect, it is possible to change aggregate demand (Y) keeping a balanced budget. Suppose the government increases its expenditures (G), balancing the increase by an increase in taxes (T). Since only part of the income taken away from households would have actually been spent, the change in consumption expenditure will be smaller than the change in taxes. Therefore, the net change in spending (increased government spending and decreased consumption spending) at this point is positive, and the induced second and subsequent rounds of spending are also positive, giving a positive result for the balanced budget multiplier. In general and in the absence of induced changes in interest rates and the price level, a change in the balanced budget will change aggregate demand by an amount equal to the change in spending. Let the consumption function be\n\nThe goods market equilibrium equation is\n\nwhere I is exogenous physical investment and NX is net exports. Using the first equation in the second one yields the following solution for Y:\n\nand taking differences of the variables and setting formula_4 and formula_5 we have\n\nThen dividing through by formula_7 gives the balanced budget multiplier as\n\nThis is named the Haavelmo theorem which demonstrates that the balanced budget multiplier rises its maximum value when any increase of the public spending formula_7 is corresponded by an equal increase of the fiscal imposition formula_10, so as to avoid a higher level of public debt. The deficit spending, that is the growth of public spending without an equal amount of monetary entrance into the State Treasury, is always a less efficient political choice in order to speed up the GNP.\n\nHowever, the balanced budget is made smaller when resulting changes in the interest rate change investment spending and money demand and when resulting changes in the price level affect money demand.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898005", "title": "Hawker Siddeley Andover", "text": "Hawker Siddeley Andover\n\nThe Hawker Siddeley HS 780 Andover is a twin-engined turboprop military transport aircraft produced by Hawker Siddeley for the Royal Air Force (RAF), developed from the Avro-designed HS 748 airliner. The Andover was named after the Avro Andover, a biplane transport used by the RAF for medical evacuation between the first and second world wars; and RAF Andover, where some of its trials were carried out. The Andover had a kneeling landing gear to make ramp loading easier.\n\nAt the start of the 1960s the Royal Air Force (RAF) issued a requirement for a medium tactical freighter and Avro started work on a military variant of the Rolls-Royce Dart-powered twin-engined Avro 748 airliner. Handley Page also proposed a variant of the Handley Page Herald and both types were tested by the Air Force in February 1962 at Martlesham Heath in Suffolk. A prototype Avro 748 Srs 2 was used for the trials.\n\nThe RAF decided to order a military variant of the 748, designated the Avro 780; and the original Avro 748 prototype was modified with an upswept rear fuselage and rear loading ramp as the Avro 748MF, to test the military version. It had more powerful Dart Mk 301s engines and a unique kneeling landing gear. In April 1963, the RAF ordered 31 aircraft as the Andover C.1 by the RAF. The 748MF first flew from Woodford Aerodrome on 21 December 1963. The aircraft had larger four-bladed propellers than the 748, which required a greater distance between the engines and the fuselage, although the wingtips were reduced by 18 inches to maintain the same wingspan as the 748. A dihedral tailplane was also fitted to keep it clear of the propeller slipstream.\n\nThe first production Andover C.1 flew from Woodford on 9 July 1965 and the first four aircraft were used for trials and tests with Hawker Siddeley and the Aeroplane and Armament Experimental Establishment at Boscombe Down. Following a release to service in May 1966, the fifth production aircraft was delivered to No. 46 Squadron RAF at RAF Abingdon in June 1966. Subsequent RAF types are the Andover CC.2 VIP transport and Andover E.3 electronic calibration aircraft.\n\nThe Andover C.1 was flown for the first time on 9 July 1965 and the first four examples were flown to RAF Boscombe Down for acceptance trials that year. The full contract of 31 aircraft were delivered to squadrons in Transport Command. These were No. 46 Squadron RAF at RAF Abingdon and later RAF Thorney Island, No. 52 Squadron RAF at RAF Seletar (Far East) and No. 84 Squadron RAF at RAF Sharjah (Middle East).\n\nThere was a follow-on order placed with Hawker Siddeley for six aircraft as the CC.2, a version of the standard HS 748, and these went initially to 21 Squadron at RAF Khormaksar. The squadron had these for six months before being disbanded; the aircraft went to 32 Squadron at RAF Northolt, the \"Metropolitan Communications Squadron\". The aircraft were with 32 Squadron for over 18 years, including some time spent on detachment at RAF Bruggen (Germany).\n\nThree of the RAF Andovers continued to fly into the second decade of the 21st century, a C.1 with the \"Empire Test Pilots' School\" and one C.1 with the \"Heavy Aircraft Test Squadron\" of the \"Joint Test and Evaluation Group\". The remaining aircraft was a modified C.1 converted for photo-reconnaissance, the Andover C.1(PR), serial number \"XS596\"; the UK-named aircraft under the Treaty on Open Skies; all three were based at RAF Boscombe Down.\n\nThe Royal New Zealand Air Force operated ten aircraft from 1976, acquired from the RAF while still relatively new. These saw service with UN missions to Somalia and on the Iran-Iraq border and in disaster-relief work in the Pacific. The type was retired from service in 1998. The main difficulty with the Andover's service in New Zealand was its limited range— of Pacific Ocean separates New Zealand from its nearest neighbours. New Zealand's Andovers were purchased to replace the Bristol Freighter which had even shorter range.\n\n\n\n\n\nBoth former RAF and RNZAF aircraft were later sold to civil operators, mainly in Africa. As of July 2010 a total of six ex-military Andovers remained in commercial service, operated by:\n\nAs of July 2013 only one Andover remained in commercial service, operated by Kenyan company Wilken Aviation. The aircraft was damaged beyond repair in a non-fatal accident at Malakal Airport in South Sudan on 10 November 2015, leaving no aircraft of the type in commercial service.\n\nThe following aircraft are on public display:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898007", "title": "WWSB", "text": "WWSB\n\nWWSB, virtual channel 40 (UHF digital channel 24), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Sarasota, Florida, United States. The station is owned by Atlanta-based Gray Television. WWSB's studios are located on 10th Street in the Rosemary District of Sarasota, and its transmitter is located on Rutland Road (County Road 675) in the unincorporated Manatee County community of Rye, about east-southeast of Parrish. The station also operates a news bureau in Venice, Florida.\nEven though WWSB broadcasts on digital channel 24 and its virtual channel is 40, the station is branded as ABC 7 because of its channel position on most cable systems in the market.\n\nDue to this station's transmitter location and the changeover from analog to digital transmission, its coverage area expands as far north as northern Hillsborough and Polk counties, south to Punta Gorda, and east to Avon Park and Sebring giving some over-the-air viewers a choice of two or three ABC affiliates depending on the location.\n\nAs a result, WWSB is technically a secondary ABC affiliate particularly for the eastern side of Tampa Bay. The city of Tampa itself is on the rim of WWSB's digital signal where receivable through indoor antennas. On cable, the station is the sole ABC affiliate on Comcast's southern Sarasota County systems and it competes with Fort Myers-based WZVN-TV (also known on-air as \"ABC 7\") in DeSoto and Charlotte counties. WWSB also competes with Orlando's ABC affiliate WFTV in Hardee County.\n\nWWSB has faced an uphill battle gaining carriage on cable and satellite providers in some cases. While DirecTV started carrying WWSB in 2009, Dish Network did not carry the station until March 2012, and only in standard definition. It was not available in high definition on Dish until 2017. Verizon FiOS added the station to its Hillsborough and Pasco County systems in October 2006 and eventually to its entire West Central Florida service area, as the system expanded. Those achievements greatly increased WWSB's coverage area and its overlap with WFTS-TV (channel 28). In December 2013, non-duplication rules enforced by ABC and cable companies threatened to remove WWSB from all Verizon FiOS systems due to the presence of WFTS-TV. WFTS worked with WWSB to retain local and syndicated programming on the provider, while blocking only the duplicated network programming, allowing WWSB to remain on FiOS.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on October 23, 1971 as WXLT-TV (XL Television with \"XL\" representing the Roman numeral for \"40\"). It was the first network-affiliated station in West Central Florida that was neither based in Tampa nor St. Petersburg. The station originally operated from studios located on Lawton Drive in Sarasota. It signed on to provide ABC programming in an area of the state that was insufficiently covered by the signal of WLCY-TV (channel 10, now WTSP) because of that station's lower-powered transmitter location well north of the Tampa Bay area's other television stations at the time. Until WLCY upgraded its facilities in the late 1970s, both that station and WXLT competed for viewers in Hillsborough and Pinellas counties. It was not uncommon to see WXLT's billboards in Tampa, St. Petersburg or Largo. In the 1970s, WXLT also cleared some CBS and NBC programming not carried by their respective Tampa Bay stations, WTVT (channel 13) and WFLA-TV (channel 8). In 1972, for example, when \"The Joker's Wild\" debuted on CBS, it was preempted on WTVT but carried by WXLT.\n\nThe call letters were changed to the current WWSB on August 31, 1986. That same year, Robert Nelson sold the station to Calkins Media (formerly Southern Broadcast Corporation). On cable, WFTS (now the area's primary ABC affiliate after a market realignment triggered by Fox's purchase of WTVT, channel 13) was not carried south of the Sarasota area while WWSB was not largely available on cable north of the Sunshine Skyway Bridge until Verizon FiOS added WWSB to all of its area lineups. The latter was due to contractual conditions drawn up in the early 1990s by WTSP and later WFTS.\n\nOn September 27, 1994, WWSB received an affiliation termination notice from ABC, likely related to the network's forced change to WFTS. Had the station not successfully petitioned the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to keep its affiliation, the then-23-year-long ABC affiliation would have ended on April 2, 1995.\n\nOn November 5, 2001, the station relocated its operations from its longtime studios on Lawton Drive to its current location in the Rosemary District of Sarasota. In March 2004, the station dropped all mentions of its over-the-air position on UHF channel 40 and rebranded as \"ABC 7\" (with the logo rebranded as a slightly modified version of the Circle 7 logo used by most of ABC's O&O stations) in reference to its cable channel position on Bright House Networks and Comcast in the station's service area. However, channel 7 is not WWSB's universal cable channel position: Comcast's Wauchula system carries it on channel 2 and its Port Charlotte system offers WWSB on channel 10, since its home market's ABC station WZVN-TV is carried on channel 7.\n\nWWSB has been digital-only since February 1, 2009.\n\nThe station and its former sports director, Don Brennan, have been featured on a \"webisode\", along with an actual episode, of the ABC/TBS show \"Cougar Town\", which is set in a fictional community in Sarasota County.\n\nOn April 11, 2016, it was reported that Calkins would exit the broadcasting industry and sell its stations to Raycom Media. The sale was completed on April 30, 2017. On June 25, 2018, Gray Television announced its intent to acquire Raycom for $3.65 billion. The sale was completed on January 2, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nSyndicated programming featured on WWSB includes \"Funny You Should Ask\", \"Rachael Ray\" and \"Celebrity Page\". In previous years, WWSB carried generally the same syndicated programs as the other Tampa Bay stations, despite the overlap in signals, such as \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\" (which was also broadcast by WTVT during its entire run), \"Extra\" (also seen on WFLA-TV, channel 8) and \"M*A*S*H\" (seen over the years on many stations, most recently on WTVT) as well as \"Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus\" (which was also seen on WFTS) in the 2000-01 season. From 2007 until the fall of 2012, WWSB carried Sony Pictures Television's \"Jeopardy!\" and \"Wheel of Fortune\" on weekday evenings, simultaneously with WFTS; on September 17, 2012, WTSP reacquired local rights to \"Jeopardy!\" and \"Wheel\" for the entire Tampa Bay market, forcing CBS Television Distribution to remove the shows from WWSB, which replaced both shows with a double run of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\" at 7 and 7:30 p.m. (because of \"Millionaire\"s cancellation in 2019, the time slots are now occupied by an expanded newscast).\n\n\"Animal Outtakes\" is a locally produced animated/live action educational program about pets and animals hosted by Marsha Panuce.\n\n\"Black Almanac\" is a locally produced public affairs program that airs on Sunday mornings at 7:30 a.m. It is hosted by Ed James, a longtime anchor and personality of the station who has been with channel 40 since just after its sign-on as WXLT. The program focuses on the issues that African Americans face in the community, and has aired since 1972, making it the longest-running locally-produced public affairs program in the Southeastern United States.\n\n\"The Suncoast View\" is a locally produced talk show based on the ABC talk show \"The View\". It airs weekdays at 9 a.m. and is hosted by Stephanie Roberts (who also serves as the show's moderator), Joey Panek, and Linda Carson. It premiered on September 8, 2014 at 4 p.m.\n\nWWSB presently broadcasts 39½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 7½ hours each weekday and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays).\nThe station's news department focuses its coverage on Sarasota and Manatee counties with occasional coverage of Charlotte County. The station also includes DeSoto and Hardee counties in its viewing area. In addition to its main studios, WWSB has a reporter covering southern Sarasota County and to a lesser extent, Charlotte County.\n\nDuring the station's early days, WXLT's news coverage focused on local news and events, but to improve ratings, later expanded to \"blood and guts\" journalism focusing mainly on crime stories. The station became notorious in 1974 when news anchor and talk show host Christine Chubbuck committed suicide by shooting herself in the head on-the-air making reference to the station's \"blood and guts\" policies in her final monologue. Her suicide occurred the day after a story she filed was cut for a story on a shootout at an area restaurant. The suicide would later provide part of the inspiration for the 1976 film, \"Network\", and would be dramatized in the 2016 film, \"Christine\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898020", "title": "INOJ", "text": "INOJ\n\nAyanna Porter (born November 27, 1976), better known by her stage name INOJ, is an American singer and songwriter. She was born and raised in Madison, Wisconsin. During college in Baltimore, Maryland, she was in a group called Spellbound.\n\nIn 1997, she released her debut single, \"Love You Down,\" a cover of Ready for the World's 1986 hit that reached #25 in the United States. Her debut album was also named \"Ready for the World\". INOJ released a cover version of Cyndi Lauper's \"Time After Time\" under Columbia Records in 1998, which was a Top 10 hit in the United States (#6), Canada (#7), and New Zealand (#10). In 1998, she released her debut album, \"Ready for the World\". She also released a cover version of Anita Ward's \"Ring My Bell\" as a single, though it did not receive much exposure as her previous singles. \n\nWhen discussing her musical style in an interview with Billboard, INOJ stated that she doesn't identify with one particular genre of music. According to her \" I try not to classify my sound, but I think I would call myself rhythm and pop instead of R&B\". She continued saying, \"R&B is more street today than rhythm and blues, and i'm definitely not urban, so I guess i've come up with a new category of my own\".\n\nINOJ states, \"you sing according to the way your were raised, I heard a lot of different artist growing up including The Carpenters and Sandy Patty\". Musically she is influenced by artist from both the past and present including Minnie Riperton, Stevie Wonder, Chicago, Michael Jackson, Backstreet Boys, N Sync, Celine Dion, Shania Twain, Shawn Colvin and Aaliyah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898028", "title": "Languages of Italy", "text": "Languages of Italy\n\nThere are approximately thirty-four native living spoken languages and related dialects in Italy, most of which are largely independent Romance languages. Although they are sometimes colloquially referred to as dialects or regional languages, they are almost all distributed in a continuum across the regions' administrative boundaries, and speakers from one locale within a single region are typically aware of the features distinguishing their own variety from one of the other places nearby.\n\nThe official and most widely spoken language across the country is Italian, a direct descendant of Tuscan. However, in parallel, most Italians also communicate in one of the regional languages that are indigenous evolutions of Vulgar Latin. \n\nOther Italian languages belong to other Indo-European branches, such as Cimbrian, Arbëresh, Slavomolisano and Griko. Other non-indigenous languages are spoken by a substantial percentage of the population due to immigration.\n\nOf the indigenous languages, twelve are officially recognized as linguistic minorities: Albanian, Catalan, German, Greek, Slovene, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Ladin, Occitan and Sardinian. However, full bilingualism (\"bilinguismo perfetto\") is legally granted only to German, Slovene and French and enacted in the regions of Trentino Alto-Adige, Friuli Venezia Giulia and the Aosta Valley, respectively.\n\nAlmost all the Romance languages native to Italy, with the notable exception of Italian, are often colloquially referred to as \"dialects\", although the term may coexist with other labels like \"minority languages\" or \"vernaculars\" for some of them. However, the use of the term \"dialect\" may erroneously imply that the native languages spoken in Italy are actual \"dialects\" of standard Italian in the prevailing linguistic sense of \"varieties or variations of a language\". This is not the case of Italy, as the country's long-standing linguistic diversity does not actually stem from Italian. Most of Italy's Romance languages predate Italian and evolved locally from Vulgar Latin, independently of what would become the standard national language, long before the fairly recent spread of Italian throughout Italy. In fact, Italian itself can be thought of as either a continuation of, or a dialect heavily based on, the Florentine dialect of Tuscan.\n\nThe indigenous Romance languages of Italy are therefore classified as separate languages that evolved from Latin just like Italian, rather than \"dialects\" or variations of the latter. Conversely, with the spread of Italian throughout Italy in the 20th century, local varieties of Italian have also developed throughout the peninsula, influenced to varying extents by the underlying local languages, most noticeably at the phonological level; though regional boundaries seldom correspond to isoglosses distinguishing these varieties, these variations of Italian are commonly referred to as Regional Italian (\"italiano regionale\").\n\nTwelve languages have been legally granted official recognition in 1999, but their selection to the exclusion of others is a matter of some controversy. Daniele Bonamore argues that many regional languages were not recognized in light of their communities' historical participation in the construction of the Italian language: Giacomo da Lentini's and Cielo d'Alcamo's Sicilian, Guido Guinizelli's Bolognese, Jacopone da Todi's Umbrian, Neapolitan, Carlo Goldoni's Venetian and Dante's Tuscan are considered to be historical founders of the Italian linguistic majority; outside of such epicenters are, on the other hand, Friulian, Ladin, Sardinian, Franco-Provençal and Occitan, which are recognized as distinct languages. Michele Salazar found Bonamore's explanation \"new and convincing\".\n\nThe original Italian Constitution does not explicitly express that Italian is the official national language. Since the constitution was penned, there have been some laws and articles written on the procedures of criminal cases passed that explicitly state that Italian should be used:\n\nThe Art. 6 of the Italian Constitution was drafted by the Founding Fathers to show sympathy for the country's historical linguistic minorities, in a way for the newly-founded Republic to let them become part of the national fabric and distance itself from the Italianization policies promoted earlier because of nationalism, especially during Fascism.\n\nHowever, more than a half century passed before the Art. 6 was followed by any of the above-mentioned \"appropriate measures\". Italy applied in fact the Article for the first time in 1999, by means of the national law N.482/99.\n\nBefore said legal framework entered into force, only four linguistic minorities (the French-speaking community in the Aosta Valley; the German-speaking community and, to a limited extent, the Ladin one in the Province of Bolzano; the Slovene-speaking community in the Province of Trieste and, with less rights, the Province of Gorizia) enjoyed some kind of acknowledgment and protection, stemming from specific clauses within international treaties. The other eight linguistic minorities were to be recognized only in 1999, including the Slovene-speaking minority in the Province of Udine and the Germanic populations (Walser, Mocheni and Cimbri) residing in provinces different from Bolzano. Some now-recognized minority groups, namely in Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Sardinia, already provided themselves with regional laws of their own. It has been estimated that less than 400.000 people, out of the two million people belonging to the twelve historical minorities (with Sardinian being the numerically biggest one), enjoyed state-wide protection.\n\nAround the 1960s, the Italian Parliament eventually resolved to apply the previously neglected article of the country's fundamental Charter. The Parliament thus appointed a \"Committee of three Sages\" to single out the groups that were to be recognized as linguistic minorities, and further elaborate the reason for their inclusion. The nominated people were Tullio de Mauro, Giovan Battista Pellegrini and Alessandro Pizzorusso, three notable figures who distinguished themselves with their life-long activity of research in the field of both linguistics and legal theory. Based on linguistic, historical as well as anthropological considerations, the experts eventually selected thirteen groups, corresponding to the currently recognized twelve with the further addition of the Sinti and Romani-speaking populations. The original list was approved, with the only exception of the nomadic peoples, who lacked the territoriality requisite and therefore needed a separate law. However, the draft was presented to the law-making bodies when the legislature was about to run its course, and had to be passed another time. The bill was met with resistance by all the subsequent legislatures, being reluctant to challenge the widely-held myth of \"Italian linguistic homogeneity\", and only in 1999 did it eventually pass, becoming a law. In the end, the historical linguistic minorities have been recognized by the Law no. 482/1999 (\"Legge 15 Dicembre 1999, n. 482, Art. 2, comma 1\").\n\nSome interpretations of said law seem to divide the twelve minority languages into two groups, with the first including the non-Latin speaking populations (with the exception of the Catalan-speaking one) and the second including only the Romance-speaking populations. Some other interpretations state that a further distinction is implied, considering only some groups to be \"national minorities\". Regardless of the ambiguous phrasing, all the twelve groups are technically supposed to be allowed the same measures of protection; furthermore, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, signed and ratified by Italy in 1997, applies to all the twelve groups mentioned by the 1999 national law, therefore including the Friulians, the Sardinians, the Occitans, the Ladins etc., with the addition of the Romani.\n\nIn actual practice, not each of the twelve historical linguistic minorities is given the same consideration. In fact, the discrimination lies in the urgent need to award the highest degree of protection only to the French-speaking minority in the Aosta Valley and the German one in South Tyrol, owing to international treaties. For example, the institutional websites are only in Italian with a few exceptions, like a French version of the Italian Chamber of Deputies. A bill proposed by former prime minister Mario Monti's cabinet formally introduced a differential treatment between the twelve historical linguistic minorities, distinguishing between those with a \"foreign mother tongue\" (the groups protected by agreements with Austria, France and Slovenia) and those with a \"peculiar dialect\" (all the others). The bill was later implemented, but deemed unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court.\n\nItaly is a signatory of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, but has not ratified the treaty, and therefore its provisions protecting regional languages do not apply in the country.\n\nThe Charter does not, however, establish at what point differences in expression result in a separate language, deeming it an \"often controversial issue\", and citing the necessity to take into account, other than purely linguistic criteria, also \"psychological, sociological and political considerations\".\n\n\n\nAccording to the UNESCO's Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger, there are 31 endangered languages in Italy. The degree of endangerment is classified in different categories ranging from 'safe' (safe languages are not included in the atlas) to 'extinct' (when there are no speakers left).\n\nThe source for the languages' distribution is the Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger unless otherwise stated, and refers to Italy exclusively.\n\n\n\n\nAll living languages indigenous to Italy are part of the Indo-European language family.\n\nThey can be divided into Romance languages and non-Romance languages. The classification of the Romance languages of Italy is controversial, and we report here two different classification systems.\n\nThe source is the SIL's Ethnologue unless otherwise stated. Language classification can be a controversial issue, when a classification is contested by academic sources, this is reported in the 'notes' column.\n\nNot included is Corsican, which is mainly spoken on the French island of Corsica. Istriot is only spoken in Croatia. Judeo-Italian is moribund.\nSardinian (\"sardu\") is a distinct language with significant phonological differences among its own varieties (\"Ethnologue\" assigns it four separate ISO codes). Some linguists, like Heinrich Lausberg, proposed that Sardinian is the sole living representative its branch of the Romance languages, which used to comprise the now extinct Afro-Romance dialects as well as the Corsican dialects before they underwent Tuscanization. UNESCO, while calling Gallurese and Sassarese \"Sardinian\", considers them to be originally dialects of Corsican rather than Sardinian. The linguistic landscape of Sardinia is in principle most accurately described as being a dialect continuum. \n proposes a classification of Romance languages of Italy based on , who groups different Romance languages according to areal and some typological features. The following five linguistic areas can be identified:\n\n\nThe following classification is proposed by :\n\n\nThe Northern Italian languages are conventionally defined as those Romance languages spoken north of the La Spezia–Rimini Line, which runs through the northern Apennine Mountains just to the north of Tuscany; however, the dialects of Occitan and Franco-Provençal spoken in the extreme northwest of Italy (e.g. the Valdôtain in the Aosta Valley) are generally excluded. The classification of these languages is difficult and not agreed-upon, due both to the variations among the languages and to the fact that they share isoglosses of various sorts with both the Italo-Romance languages to the south and the Gallo-Romance languages to the northwest.\n\nOne common classification divides these languages into four groups:\n\nAny such classification runs into the basic problem that there is a dialect continuum throughout northern Italy, with a continuous transition of spoken dialects between e.g. Venetian and Ladin, or Venetian and Emilio-Romagnolo (usually considered Gallo-Italian).\n\nAll of these languages are considered innovative relative to the Romance languages as a whole, with some of the Gallo-Italian languages having phonological changes nearly as extreme as standard French (usually considered the most phonologically innovative of the Romance languages). This distinguishes them significantly from standard Italian, which is extremely conservative in its phonology (and notably conservative in its morphology).\n\nApproximate distribution of the regional languages of Sardinia and Southern Italy according to the UNESCO's Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger:\n\nOne common classification divides these languages into two groups:\n\nAll of these languages are considered conservative relative to the Romance languages as a whole, with Sardinian being the most conservative of them all.\n\nAlthough \"[al]most all Italian dialects were being written in the Middle Ages, for administrative, religious, and often artistic purposes,\" use of local language gave way to stylized Tuscan, eventually labeled Italian. Local languages are still occasionally written, but only the following regional languages of Italy have a standardised written form. This may be widely accepted or used alongside more traditional written forms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898036", "title": "WFTS-TV", "text": "WFTS-TV\n\nWFTS-TV, virtual channel 28 (UHF digital channel 17), branded as ABC Action News, is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Tampa, Florida, United States and also serving the nearby city of St. Petersburg. The station is owned by the E. W. Scripps Company. WFTS-TV's studios are located on North Himes Avenue on Tampa's northwest side (across the street from Raymond James Stadium), and its transmitter is located in Riverview, Florida. On cable, the station is available on channel 11 on most systems in the market.\n\nThe channel 28 allocation in Tampa Bay was to have been used by WTSS-TV, an affiliate of the DuMont Television Network in the 1950s. It is very unlikely that WTSS ever made it to air.\n\nWFTS first signed on the air on December 14, 1981, operating as an independent station. As the flagship of the locally based Family Group Broadcasting, the station programmed a family-oriented general entertainment format with cartoons, off-network dramas, classic movies and religious programs. Its call letters originally stood for \"Family Television Station\". Family Group Broadcasting sold the station to Capital Cities Communications on April 22, 1984, becoming Capital Cities' first station in Florida, the group's first (and only) independent station, and the last station to be acquired by the group prior to its merger with ABC. Under Capital Cities, the station added more off-network sitcoms and reduced the number of religious programs and drama series on its schedule.\n\nIn March 1985, Capital Cities stunned the broadcasting industry with its announced purchase of ABC—a network that was ten times bigger than Capital Cities was at the time. Capital Cities owned several ABC affiliates, and two CBS affiliates: KFSN-TV in Fresno, California and WTVD in Durham, North Carolina (both are now ABC owned-and-operated stations). The company's combined assets exceeded Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ownership limits of the time, so Capital Cities decided to keep its CBS affiliates and change their affiliations to ABC, along with longtime ABC affiliates WPVI-TV in Philadelphia and KTRK-TV in Houston, and sold WFTS and the ABC owned-and-operated station in Detroit, WXYZ-TV, to the E. W. Scripps Company, while selling several other stations to minority-owned firms. The sale would be finalized in January 1986.\n\nScripps continued the general entertainment format on WFTS, running cartoons, sitcoms, movies and drama series. WFTS became the Tampa Bay market's Fox affiliate in 1988, after it was dropped by then-rival WTOG (channel 44). Just like channel 44, the station continued to program itself as an independent station until 1993 when Fox started its week-long programming schedule. It began to identify on air as \"Fox 28\", and soon after briefly identified its call letters as standing for \"Fox Television Station\". A 10 p.m. newscast was planned for the station, but ultimately did not come to fruition.\n\nOn May 22, 1994, New World Communications signed an affiliation agreement with Fox, that resulted in twelve of New World's stations, including Tampa Bay's longtime CBS affiliate WTVT (channel 13), being tapped to switch to the network. Among the stations making the switch were longtime CBS affiliates WJBK-TV in Detroit and WJW-TV in Cleveland. Not wanting to be relegated to the UHF band, CBS heavily wooed Detroit's longtime ABC affiliate, WXYZ, as well as Cleveland's longtime ABC affiliate, WEWS-TV. Both were owned by Scripps, who told ABC that it would switch WXYZ and WEWS to CBS unless ABC affiliated with three of its stations: WFTS, KNXV-TV in Phoenix (which was also slated to lose its Fox affiliation to New World-owned CBS affiliate KSAZ-TV), and WMAR-TV in Baltimore (the latter triggered an affiliation deal between CBS and all of Westinghouse Broadcasting's five stations). Scripps insisted on including WFTS and KNXV in the deal even though neither station had a news department.\n\nAs a result, on December 12, 1994, WFTS assumed the market's ABC affiliation from longtime affiliate WTSP (channel 10), which took over the CBS affiliation from WTVT. Most of WFTS' syndicated programs were then acquired by WTTA (channel 38), WTOG and/or WTMV (channel 32, now WMOR-TV), which would also air Fox Kids. In November 2004, WFTS became one of three Florida television stations, and one of the many Scripps-owned ABC affiliates that preempted \"Saving Private Ryan\". At one time WFTS was the local over-the-air broadcast partner of the Tampa Bay Lightning hockey club. It first aired four Lightning games during the 2002–03 season, and also served as the local broadcaster of the Lightning's 2004 championship victory against the Calgary Flames as part of the network's NHL coverage (which was the last game before a lockout that canceled the league's 2004–05 season and the transfer of the team's broadcast rights to Sun Sports and NBC for the 2005–06 season). The station would also broadcast the \"Monday Night Football\" games for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, including their Super Bowl XXXVII championship victory.\n\nAs of the 2016–2017 TV season, Tampa–St. Petersburg–Sarasota is the sixth largest market with a major network affiliate broadcasting on the UHF band (14–51) and WFTS is currently the largest ABC affiliate by market size that is on the UHF band; although most digital television stations broadcast on a UHF frequency, most also identify through the use of a PSIP virtual channel as being on the VHF band, corresponding with the stations' former analog channel numbers. Because WFTS was formerly on UHF analog channel 28, it continues to use channel 28 as its channel number through the use of PSIP (though as described below, it has not used its channel designation in any branding the last 16 years). The larger markets with a major network in the UHF channel range are Atlanta (CBS-affiliated WGCL-TV, virtual channel 46), Boston (Fox-affiliated WFXT, virtual channel 25), Houston (Fox O&O KRIV, virtual channel 26), Philadelphia (Fox O&O WTXF, virtual channel 29), and Chicago (Fox O&O WFLD, virtual channel 32). WFTS is also the third-largest Big Four affiliate to not use its terrestrial channel number as part of its branding, behind NBC owned-and-operated stations KNTV in San Jose, California and WBTS-CD in Boston.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWFTS-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 28, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 29, using PSIP to display WFTS-TV's virtual channel as 28 on digital television receivers.\n\nWFTS-TV presently broadcasts 35 hours, 5 minutes of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5 hours, 35 minutes each weekday; 4 hours, 5 minutes on Saturdays; and 3 hours, 5 minutes on Sundays). WFTS currently uses Weather Services International's \"Titan HD\" weather system for its forecasts. WFTS is one of ten television stations that airs consumer reports from John Matarese of ABC-affiliated sister station WCPO-TV in Cincinnati. The station also serves as the graphics development hub for the Scripps stations; the 2009 and 2012 Scripps generic looks were developed at the station (rival WTVT serves a similar purpose for the Fox Television Stations group).\n\nDuring its days as an independent station and then as a Fox affiliate, WFTS presented hourly news and weather updates, featuring a person reading the day's headlines or the current forecast. During the station's first few months on the air, the newsbreaks were provided by WNSI-AM (1380, now WWMI) in an audio-only format, over a \"News Check\" slide. Later on, news updates began to feature on-camera newsreaders at WFTS's studios. By the late 1980s, the news and weather updates were titled \"28 Newsbreak\" or \"28 Weatherbreak\". These news updates were discontinued in December 1994 upon the station's switch to ABC.\n\nWFTS launched a full-scale news department and began airing regular long-form newscasts on December 12, 1994, branded as \"28 Tampa Bay News\". The newscasts initially originated from Telemation studios in Clearwater, since WFTS's studios on Tampa's east side (at the corner of I-4 and Columbus Drive) were not large enough to house a full-sized newsroom or a news set. The station's news department then moved to its new studio facilities on Himes Avenue, across from Raymond James Stadium, in 1996. The station, which initially aired half-hour newscasts at 6 and 11 p.m. nightly when the news department began operations, gradually added a two-hour morning newscast from 5–7 a.m., a half-hour noon newscast, and an hour-long 5 p.m. newscast (the latter of which created 90-minute block of news from 5–6:30 p.m.). \n\nThe newscast title was changed to \"28 News\" briefly in 2002, before being changed again to \"ABC Action News\" later that year due to viewer confusion with the \"ABC 28\" branding. The universal \"Action News\" branding for newscasts and general promotion is also shared with NBC-affiliated sister station KSHB-TV in Kansas City, Missouri. In the fall of 2005, the station expanded its weekday noon newscast to one hour, following the cancellation of the ABC soap opera \"Port Charles\". On July 28, 2007 beginning with the 6 p.m. newscast, WFTS-TV became the first television station in the Tampa Bay market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; WFTS surprisingly beat out rivals WTVT and WTSP who were both rumored to be competing to launch the first high definition newscast in Tampa Bay. WFTS was the first Tampa Bay station to broadcast its weather segments in true high definition in October 2007, rival WFLA-TV (channel 8) soon followed.\n\nUntil December 2009, WFTS was one of two stations in the market to have two women regularly anchor an evening newscast: Wendy Ryan and Linda Hurtado anchored the station's 5 p.m. news broadcast; while Denise White and Kathy Fountain anchored the 5 p.m. newscast on WTVT (Fountain retired on December 30, 2009, leaving Ryan and Hurtado as the only all-female anchor team in Tampa Bay; this changed again in the summer of 2010 when Jamison Uhler joined WFTS from WCAU-TV in Philadelphia as 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. co-anchor). On April 25, 2012, WFTS launched \"ABC Action News Now\", an exclusive newscast and weather station available mainly to smartphone and tablet users and designed with a program schedule designed with those devices in mind, rather than a traditional \"news wheel\" schedule seen on most news/weather-only subchannels. During severe weather and breaking news events, the channel is also carried on-air over 28.2 and local cable television providers in lieu of Laff.\n\nSince its launch, WFTS' news department has been a solid competitor in the Tampa Bay market. It has spent most of the new millennium in a spirited four-way battle for first place with longer-established WFLA-TV, WTVT and WTSP. This stands in contrast to other former Fox stations had switched to ABC, NBC or CBS at the time as a result of Fox's affiliation deal with New World Communications. Many of them have had no success competing with long-standing (mostly VHF) news stations, and some of them shuttered their news departments altogether as a result. On December 3, 2015, longtime evening anchor Brendan McLaughlin announced his departure from WFTS on December 18; with this, Denis Phillips is the only member of WFTS's current on-air news staff that has remained with the station since the news department's launch.\n\nIn November 2012, WFTS overtook all other local stations in all evening and late news ratings in the demographic of Adults 25–54. This marked the first time ever WFTS won at 5:00, 5:30, 6:00 and 11:00 p.m. in the key demographic during one ratings period.\n\n\nIn addition to its main signal coverage area, WFTS' signal can also be viewed in portions of Citrus, Sumter, Sarasota, DeSoto, Highlands, Orange, Osceola and Lake counties.\n\nThe station is not available in Comcast's Venice service area (in southern Sarasota County) due to the presence of WWSB (channel 40), an ABC station formed as the signal of WTSP, the Tampa–St. Petersburg market's previous ABC affiliate, provided insufficient over-the-air coverage in the Sarasota area. As a result, WFTS is not available to over 91,000 cable subscribers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898041", "title": "Carlos Pellicer", "text": "Carlos Pellicer\n\nCarlos Pellicer Cámara (January 10, 1897 – February 16, 1977), born in Villahermosa, Tabasco, was part of the first wave of modernist Mexican poets and was active in the promotion of Mexican art, pictures, and literature. An enthusiastic traveler, his work is filled with depictions of nature and a certain sexual energy that is shared with his contemporary Octavio Paz.\n\nThe young Pellicer studied in Mexico City. In August 1921, along with Vicente Lombardo Toledano, Diego Rivera, José Clemente Orozco and Xavier Guerrero, he founded the Grupo Solidario del Movimiento Obrero (\"Solidarity Group of the Workers' Movement\"). He lectured in modern poetry at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and served as the director of the Department of Fine Arts. He helped establish a number of museums, including the Frida Kahlo and Anahuacalli museums in Mexico City. There is a small archeology museum named for Carlos Pellicer in Tepoztlán, Morelos. In 1976 he was elected to the Senate, representing Tabasco for the PRI.\n\nHis early poems, as in \"Colores en el mar\" (Colors in the Sea, 1921) and \"Piedra de sacrificios\" (Stone of Sacrifice, 1924), often depicted serene and halcyon landscapes. During his later period, however, Pellicer explored the historical and spiritual implications of his experience of nature. Octavio Paz said of his work: \"A great poet, Pellicer taught to us to see the world through different eyes, and in doing so modified Mexican poetry. His work, poetry with a plurality of sorts, is solved in a luminous metaphor, an interminable praise of the world.\"\n"}
{"id": "1898047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898047", "title": "Networked Readiness Index", "text": "Networked Readiness Index\n\nThe World Economic Forum's Networked Readiness Index (NRI), also referred to as Technology Readiness, measures the propensity for countries to exploit the opportunities offered by information and communications technology (ICT). It is published in collaboration with INSEAD, as part of their annual Global Information Technology Report (GITR). The report is regarded as the most authoritative and comprehensive assessment of how ICT impacts the competitiveness and well-being of nations.\n\nThe Networked Readiness Index (NRI) was first published in 2002 and provided a holistic framework for assessing the multi-faceted impact of ICT on society and the development of nations. Until 2016, the NRI was part of the Global Information Technology Report (GITR) published by the World Economic Forum (WEF), Cornell University and INSEAD. Under the World Economic Forum, the Networked Readiness Index (NRI), also referred to as Technology Readiness, was published as part of the’ ‘Global Information Technology Report (GITR). \n\nIn 2019, due to some internal reorganizations and changed priorities, the WEF handed over the production of the NRI to its original editors Soumitra Dutta and Bruno Lanvin. This provided an excellent opportunity for the NRI framework to be revisited and make it more future-ready. \n\nWithin this opportunity, the editors also changed the name of the index from the Networked Readiness Index to Network Readiness Index. In the 2019 edition, the NRI was reviewed to include 4 pillars: Technology, People, Governance, and Impact. In 2019 the NRI was published by Portulans Institute, co-founded by Soumitra Dutta, Bruno Lanvin and Carolina Rossini.\n\nThe report is regarded as the most authoritative and comprehensive assessment of how ICT impacts the competitiveness and well-being of nations.\n\nThe index was originally developed by the Information Technology Group, which worked at Harvard University's Center for International Development until 2002. It seeks to better understand the impact of ICT on the competitiveness of nations and is a composite of three components: \n\nThe Network Readiness Index 2019 ranks a total of 121 economies. A total of 62 indicators have been identified for the NRI 2019. Of these indicators, 40 are hard/quantitative data, 12 are index/composite indicator data, and 10 are survey/qualitative data.\n\nThe renewed NRI of 2019 has an improved structure that incorporates several features not included in the most recent model used for the index. This year's results are therefore not entirely comparable with the rankings of previous editions. Nevertheless, the fundamental basis of the NRI is unchanged and, the rankings of NRI 2019 bear many resemblances to the results of NRI 2016. In fact, eight of this year's top 10 countries featured in the top 10 in NRI 2016. The two top 10 countries in this year's index that did not feature in the previous rankings’ top 10 are Denmark (11th in NRI 2016; 4th in NRI 2019) and Germany (15th in NRI 2016; 10th in NRI 2019).\n\n\nThe 2016 edition covers 139 nations. The top 10 are:\n\nThe 2015 edition covers 143 nations. The top 10 are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898061", "title": "Jan Rijp", "text": "Jan Rijp\n\nJan Cornelisz Rijp (–) was a Dutch mariner in the late-16th and early-17th centuries. Rijp is best known for his involvement with Willem Barentsz in finding a route to the East, avoiding the Spanish and the Portuguese fleets in the South.\n\nIn May 1596, Rijp was named captain of the second of two ships commissioned to Barents by Dutch merchants to discover the fabled Northeast Passage to the East Indies. Jacob van Heemskerk captained the first ship, and Barents served as its pilot. After discovering Spitsbergen, the ships encountered pack ice blocking the way. Barents decided to turn east and round the northern tip of Novaya Zemlya, as he had successfully managed once before. When Barents urged Rijp to follow, he refused. Rijp insisted that the northern tip of Novaya Zemlya was far too dangerous and returned to the Netherlands.\n\nBarents and his ship continued in the attempt to round Novaya Zemlya. He realized too late the wisdom of Rijp's decision and became trapped in the ice. Barents perished at sea in one of the two small tenders the crew used to escape to the Kola Peninsula, unlike Rijp, who correctly assessed the risks of the Arctic and returned to pick up the remainder of Barents' crew—including van Heemskerk—near Murmansk on his next trip in 1597.\n\nRijpsburg settlement on Svalbard is named for him.\n"}
{"id": "1898065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898065", "title": "Volunteer Jam", "text": "Volunteer Jam\n\nThe Volunteer Jam is an annual concert headlined by the Charlie Daniels Band, featuring a multitude of musical acts that perform onstage with the band. It was first held on October 4, 1974, at the War Memorial Auditorium in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nOver the years, guests have included Ted Nugent, The Allman Brothers Band, The Marshall Tucker Band, Billy Joel, Garth Brooks, Billy Ray Cyrus, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Tammy Wynette, Roy Acuff, Carl Perkins, Alabama, Don Henley, Barefoot Jerry and many more. Many of these concerts were broadcast live on the radio. The Volunteer Jam on nationwide TV included a live broadcast on the Jerry Lewis Telethon and a Dick Clark produced network special. Volunteer Jam is also the name of a series of albums released by Charlie Daniels of performances from the late 1970s and early 1980s at the Volunteer Jam shows.\n\nOctober 4, 1974\nThe very first Volunteer Jam concert was held at War Memorial Auditorium in Nashville, TN. The show was scheduled as a live recording session for two songs for the Fire on the Mountain album, \"No Place to Go\" and \"Orange Blossom Special.\" The CDB invited some of their friends - Dickey Betts from the Allman Brothers Band and Toy Caldwell, Jerry Eubanks and Paul Riddle from the Marshall Tucker Band - to get together and Jam after their set. A tradition was born. \"Ain't it good to be alive, and be in Tennessee!\" - Charlie Daniels 1974\n\nSeptember 12, 1975\nOfficially Known as Volunteer Jam '75, the second Jam was held at Murphy Center in Murfreesboro, TN. Special guests included The Marshall Tucker Band, Dickie Betts and Chuck Leavell from the Allman Brothers Band, Jimmy Hall from Wet Willie and Dru Lombar from Grinderswitch. The concert was filmed and released as Volunteer Jam - Starring The Charlie Daniels Band The First full-length Southern Rock Motion Picture.\n\nJanuary 8, 1977\nVolunteer Jam III was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville.TN. Special guests included The Winters Brothers Band, Grinderswitch, Wet Willie, Sea Level, The Sanford-Townsend Band and many more. Performances from this Jam were combined with performances from VolJam III to create a live album, Volunteer Jam III and IV.\n\nJanuary 14, 1978\nVolunteer Jam IV was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. Special guests included The Winters Brothers Band, Grinderswitch, Wet Willie, Sea Level, The Sanford-Townsend Band and many more. Performances from this Jam were combined with performances from VolJam III to create a live album, Volunteer Jam III and IV.\n\nJanuary 13, 1979\nVolunteer Jam V was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. This Jam marked the return of Lynyrd Skynyrd to the stage for the first time since the '77 plane crash, and the CDB gave the first live performance of a song that would catapult the band to superstardom, \"The Devil Went Down to Georgia.\" Special guests also included Toy Caldwell and George McCorkle from the Marshall Tucker Band, Dobie Gray, The Winters Brothers Band, The Henry Paul Band, Link Wray, John Prine,\n\nJanuary 12, 1980\nVolunteer Jam VI was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. Special guests included The Winters Brothers Band, Dobie Gray, Grinderswitch, Papa John Creach, The Henry Paul Band, Rufus Thomas, Crystal Gayle, Wet Willie, Bobby Jones & New Life, Louisiana's LeRoux, Ted Nugent and many more.\n\nJanuary 17, 1981\nVolunteer Jam VII was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. The CDB's special guests included Ted Nugent, Dobie Gray, Molly Hatchet, Delbert McClinton, Crystal Gayle, Bobby Bare, Jimmy Hall from Wet Willie and many more.\n\nJanuary 30, 1982\nVolunteer Jam VIII was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. Special guests included Johnny Lee, George Thorogood, Crystal Gayle, Quarterflash, The Oak Ridge Boys, Dickey Betts, Jimmy C. Newman, Duane Eddy, Roy Acuff and others\n\nJanuary 22, 1983\nVolunteer Jam IX was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. The CDB's special guests included James Brown, Carl Perkins, Dickey Betts, Grinderswitch, Quarterflash, Johnny Lee, Winters Brothers Band, Papa John Creach, Woody Herman and many more.\n\nFebruary 4, 1984\nVolunteer Jam X was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. Special guests included The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Ronnie Milsap, Dobie Gray, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Vince Gill, Louise Mandrell, Amy Grant, The Bellamy Brothers, Emmylou Harris, Rodney Crowell, Crystal Gayle, Streets, Exile, B.J. Thomas, Tammy Wynette and many more.\n\nFebruary 2, 1985\nVolunteer Jam XI was held at Municipal Auditorium in Nashville, TN. Special guests included Kris Kristofferson, Tom Wopat, Little Richard, Nicolette Larson, Alabama, Ted Nugent, Bill Medley from The Righteous Brothers, Tommy Shaw from Styx, Lacy J. Dalton, Gail Davies, Eddy Raven, Emmylou Harris and Amy Grant, and many more.\n\nJuly 12, 1986\nVolunteer Jam XII was held at Starwood Amphitheatre in Nashville, TN. Special guests included Special guests included John Conlee, Dobie Gray, The Judds, Restless Heart, Marty Stuart, The Outlaws, John Schneider, The Allman Brothers Band, Dwight Yoakum and many more.\n\nSeptember 6, 1987\nVolunteer Jam XIII was held at Starwood Amphitheatre in Nashville, TN. Special guests included William Lee Golden, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Gary Chapman, Great White and others including Lynyrd Skynyrd. It was Johnny Van Zant's first appearance as Lynyrd Skynyrd frontman, replacing his brother Ronnie who died in the 1977 plane crash. The Jam also coincided with Jerry Lewis' Labor Day Telethon, and some of the Jam performances were televised on the telethon.\n\nMay 4, 1991\nVolunteer Jam XIV was held at Starwood Amphitheatre in Nashville, TN. Special guests included Tanya Tucker, Bobby Jones & New Life, Travis Tritt, Joe Diffie, Ted Nugent, \"Jim Dandy\" Mangrum, B.B. King and John Kay & Steppenwolf.\n\nSeptember 20, 1992\nVolunteer Jam XV was held at Starwood Amphitheatre in Nashville, TN. Special guests included Poco, Eddie Rabbit, Little Feat, The Oak Ridge Boys, Paulette Carlson, Suzy Bogguss, Jo-El Sonnier, Pirates Of The Mississippi, Confederate Railroad, Hal Ketchum, The Desert Rose Band, and many more.\n\nOctober 29, 1996\nThe last of the original Jams, Volunteer Jam XVI, was held at the Tennessee Performing Arts Center in Nashville, TN. The Jam was reimagined as an acoustic show and Charlie's 60th birthday celebration. Special guests included Lorrie Morgan, David Ball, Billy Ray Cyrus, Tracy Byrd, Tray Lawrence, John Berry, Randy Scruggs and BlackHawk.\n\nMay 24, 2014\nAn unofficial Volunteer Jam concert was held at Fiddler's Green Amphitheatre outside Denver, CO honoring members of the military, Red Cross and First Responders. Also appearing with the CDB were Craig Campbell, Blackhawk and The Outlaws. The show was broadcast live on AXS TV.\n\nAugust 12, 2015\nThe CDB celebrates the 40th Anniversary of the Volunteer Jam with an all-star lineup at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, TN. Artists scheduled to perform included Travis Tritt, Montgomery Gentry, Billy Ray Cyrus, The Kentucky Headhunters, The Outlaws, Lee Roy Parnell, Trace Adkins, Colt Ford, Tracy Lawrence, Craig Morgan, Ted Nugent, The Oak Ridge Boys and Michael W. Smith.\n\nNovember 30, 2016\nCharlie Daniels 80th Birthday Volunteer Jam on November 30, 2016 with special guests Chris Stapleton, Travis Tritt, Kid Rock, Larry The Cable Guy, 3 Doors Down and Luke Bryan\n\nScheduled For March 7, 2018\nVolunteer Jam XX: A Tribute to Charlie. The lineup included Charlie Daniels and The Charlie Daniels Band, Alison Krauss, Billy Gibbons of ZZ Top, Blackberry Smoke, Bobby Bare, Chris Janson, Chuck Leavell, Eddie Montgomery of Montgomery Gentry, Jamey Johnson, Justin Moore, The Oak Ridge Boys, Ricky Skaggs, Alabama, Sara Evans, Lee Brice, Chris Young and Travis Tritt. Was recorded for broadcast on AXS TV, as well as DVD/CD releases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898069", "title": "Gerard A. Alphonse", "text": "Gerard A. Alphonse\n\nGerard A. Alphonse is an Haitian electrical engineer, physicist and research scientist, and was the 2005 president of the United States division of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He has served on several of IEEE's committees and boards.\n\nAlphonse invented and demonstrated the world's highest performance superluminescent diode in 1986. The device is a broadband semiconductor light source and key component of next-generation fiber optic gyroscopes, low coherence tomography for medical imaging, and external cavity tunable lasers with applications to fiber optic communications. He holds more than 50 U.S. patents, was inducted into the New Jersey Inventors' Hall of Fame in 2005, and in 2016 was honored with the Marcus Garvey Lifetime Achievement Award by the Institute for Caribbean Studies in Washington, D.C.\n\nAlphonse received a BSEE (1958) and MSEE (1959) from New York University, and a PhD in Electrophysics from Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute in 1967.\n"}
{"id": "1898078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898078", "title": "National Renewal (Chile)", "text": "National Renewal (Chile)\n\nNational Renewal (, RN) is a political party in Chile. It belongs to the center-right political coalition Chile Vamos, in conjunction with the Independent Democratic Union (UDI), the Independent Regionalist Party (PRI) and Political Evolution (Evópoli). The party president is Mario Desbordes, and its principal leaders are Sebastián Piñera, two times President of Chile and Andrés Allamand, former minister of defense, former presidential candidate and Senator.\n\nNational Renewal was formed on 29 April 1987 when three rightist organizations – the National Union Movement (\"Movimiento de Unión Nacional\", MUN), the National Labour Front (\"Frente Nacional del Trabajo\", FNT), and the Independent Democratic Union (\"Unión Demócrata Independiente\", UDI) — joined together in preparation for the 1988 Plebiscite that would determine the continuity or not of rule of Augusto Pinochet who had been in power since the coup of 1973. The UDI soon broke away to run as a separate party due to its strong support for the plebiscite and a Pinochet candidacy, while the remaining National Renewal party indicated its preference for an open election or a candidate other than Pinochet. However, once Pinochet was proclaimed candidate, the overwhelming majority of National Renewal supported him.\n\nThe party was founded on 29 April with 351 founding members. In this way, National Renewal was the first political party to form in Chile after the lifting on the ban of political parties that had been established after the coup; by December of that year, 61,167 members, led by Andrés Allamand, had joined. The principal idea that the party proclaimed was to generate an environment of calm during the return of democracy. The party supported UDI candidate Joaquín Lavín as the sole Alliance candidate in the 1999/2000 presidential elections, who went on to obtain 47.5% of the votes in the first round, but was subsequently defeated in the second round by Ricardo Lagos.\n\nDuring early 2005, the party initially supported Lavín to again run as the sole candidate of the Alliance in the presidential election of that year. However, in face of Lavín's declining opinion poll numbers, Sebastián Piñera announced his candidacy as the National Renewal candidate thus ensuring that the Alliance have two candidates for the election. In the first round on 11 December, Piñera obtained 25.4% of the vote, which was enough to send him to the run-off on 15 January 2006 with Michelle Bachelet. With 46.5% of the vote, Piñera was defeated by Bachelet.\n\nIn the legislative elections, also on 11 December 2005, the party won, as part of the Alliance for Chile, 20 out of 120 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and currently holds 7 out of 38 seats in the Senate.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections, also on 13 December 2009, the party gains, as part of the Coalition for Change, 18 out of 120 seats in the Chamber of Deputies of Chile and currently has 8 out of 38 seats in the Senate of Chile.\n\nIn the 2010 presidential election, Sebastián Piñera was elected president of Chile.\n\nIn 2013, Andrés Allamand was presidential precandidate for primary elections, the National Renewal party supported the presidential candidacy of Evelyn Matthei for the presidential election, that lost in second round with the 37% of the votes.\n\nIn January 2014, three deputies (Karla Rubilar, Pedro Browne and Joaquín Godoy) and one senator (Lily Pérez) resigned to membership in the party and launched a political movement called \"Amplitude\" (\"Amplitud\"), that aimed to be a new political party inside the Alliance. In the internal elections of 2014 the party, the deputy Cristián Monckeberg was elected president of the party. On 2 August 2014, National Renewal debuts its new logo with a blue and red star gradient colours. In August 2014 the deputy Gaspar Rivas left the party.\n\nOn 22 November 2014, on a Doctrinal Council held in Pucón, National Renewal drafted a new statement of principles where they were eliminated references to the coup d'état of September 11, 1973.\n\nOn 4 October 2015, National Renewal formed with the Independent Democratic Union (UDI), Political Evolution (Evópoli) and the Independent Regionalist Party (PRI) the new centre-right coalition called Chile Vamos.\n\nIn July 2016, the Senator of National Renewal Manuel José Ossandón left the party to form his presidential candidacy in 2017. The National Renewal party, in 2017, accorded support the presidential candidacy of Sebastián Piñera within UDI and PRI to primary elections of the centre-right coalition Chile Vamos.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections of 2017, National Renewal obtained 36 seats in the Chamber of Deputies with 17.80% of the votes and 8 seats in the Senate with 20.98% of the votes, thus becoming the most voted party in these elections and displacing its coalition partner, the Independent Democratic Union.\n\nIn 11 March 2018, for the second government of Sebastián Piñera, National Renewal has 5 Ministers, 8 Undersecretaries, 5 regional Intendants and 24 provincial Governors.\n\nNational Renewal has nine party presidents in its history:\n\n\nThe following is a list of the presidential candidates supported by the National Renewal. (Information gathered from the Archive of Chilean Elections).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898081", "title": "Serbian Democratic Renewal Movement", "text": "Serbian Democratic Renewal Movement\n\nThe Serbian Democratic Renewal Movement () was a monarchist political party in Serbia.\n\nThe SDPO was formed in 2005, after a split in the Serbian Renewal Movement (SPO). The split was the result of major disagreements with the leadership of Vuk Drašković and his influential wife Danica Drašković.\n\nThe SDPO last participated in the 2007 Serbian parliamentary election in coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia. The SDPO ceased to exist in 2010, on the national level, after the new law on political parties was taken by the parliament demanding all parties to register again under new conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898083", "title": "Esurance", "text": "Esurance\n\nEsurance Insurance Services, Inc. is an American insurance company. It sells auto, home, motorcycle, and renters insurance direct to consumers online and by phone. Its primary competitors are other direct personal insurance writers, mainly GEICO and Progressive. Founded in 1999, the company was purchased by Allstate in 2011, and is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Allstate.\n\nEsurance was founded in 1999 by Jean-Bernard Duler, Jeffrey L. Goodman, Huyen Bui, David Griffin, and Charles Wallace, and became one of the first insurance companies to sell policies directly to consumers over the internet, instead of using in-person meetings or phone calls. In 2000, Esurance was acquired by Folksamerica Holding Company, a subsidiary of White Mountains Insurance Group. Esurance, which is based out of San Francisco, had by that time expanded to offering policies in 24 states, but had also just laid off staff and was actively soliciting a purchaser.\n\nIn 2004, Esurance began to offer multi-car discount packages to same-sex couples, by offering multi-car discounts to any group of people that lived together. The company claims to be one of the first insurers to have offered such packages to same-sex couples.\n\nIn May 2011, Allstate announced that it was purchasing Esurance and rate-comparison site Answer Financial for approximately $1 billion. At the time, Esurance was selling policies in 30 states and was in the midst of a five-year growth period that saw them double the number of policies in force. Allstate, for its part, was losing policy holders to the three major online policy retailers: Esurance, Progressive, and GEICO. Allstate's acquisition of Esurance was completed in October of that year. The combined company became the sixth-largest provider of auto insurance policies. In September 2012, White Mountains filed a lawsuit against Allstate alleging that Allstate failed to meet a deadline to produce a financial audit that was part of the sale, and that Allstate deducted $5.2 million in legal expenses from the value of the sale that they were not allowed to deduct by the terms of the agreement.\n\nEsurance's first television advertising campaign was launched five years after the company went live. The campaign was aimed at the 18 to 24-year-old male demographic, and had a budget of $60,000, a tiny fraction of the over $1 billion spent on advertisements within the insurance industry. The commercials featured an animated character named Erin Esurance, a pink-haired spy inspired by Sydney Bristow from the television show \"Alias.\" The character and campaign were initially well received, leading to over 30 separate advertisements featuring Erin, and a dramatic increase in brand awareness. However, by 2009 industry polling on corporate mascots found Erin had become unpopular with viewers; 30% of viewers found the character annoying - double the industry average - and was below industry average in sincerity and believability. Polling found Erin was less popular than even Microsoft's notorious Clippy character. Additionally, a large number of pornographic images featuring Erin were created, and in some cases sold, by fans of the character. The illustrations became so prevalent that when the character was searched for by name without mature content filters enabled, the vast majority of results were pornographic. The combination of decreasing popularity and the pornographic images led to the character being retired by 2010.\n\nAfter Erin was discontinued in 2010, Esurance launched a new advertising campaign designed by the firm Duncan/Channon. By this point, the company had an advertising budget of $100 million. Set in a fictionalized version of the Esurance office, but featuring actual Esurance employees (although Erin Esurance makes a background appearance) the commercials emphasized both the company's high tech platform and the personal touches offered by speaking to employees. The campaign was a deliberate break from focusing the advertisements on the 18-24 male demographic.\n\nThe new campaign was short lived; In December 2011, Esurance announced another new advertising campaign. It emphasized efficiency and positioned the company as \"Insurance for the Modern World\"; the target demographic was families and professionals in the 25-49 age group. John Krasinski narrated the commercials, which were developed by ad agency Leo Burnett Worldwide.\n\nEsurance also markets itself heavily through sports teams and sporting events, where it casts itself as being more environmentally friendly than competitors. The company has sponsored a number of sporting events and teams, including the US Open tennis tournament, the Golden State Warriors, and the San Francisco Giants.\n\nIn February 2015, Esurance released their Super Bowl XLIX commercial, featuring Bryan Cranston parodying his Walter White character from \"Breaking Bad\". In April 2015, Esurance and Major League Baseball announced a new multi-year sponsorship in which Esurance will be the exclusive auto insurance partner for Major League Baseball.\n\nEsurance introduced a new ad campaign featuring Dennis Quaid (in his first-ever appearance in a commercial, and the company's first use of a real-life spokesman) as a tongue-in-cheek \"highly likeable\" spokesperson in August 2018. The company introduced a new slogan, \"surprisingly painless,\" as part of the rebrand.\n\nIn December 2019, Allstate aimed to close down Esurance in 2020 for business operations streamlining.\n\nIn April 2020, Allstate announced that a 15% refund will be forwarded to clients of Esurance due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898087", "title": "Lhermitte's sign", "text": "Lhermitte's sign\n\nLhermitte's phenomenon, also called the barber chair phenomenon, is an uncomfortable \"electrical\" sensation that runs through the back and into the limbs. The sensation can feel like it goes up or down the spine.\n\nIn many people, it is elicited by bending the head forward. It can also be evoked when a practitioner pounds on the cervical spine while the neck is flexed; this is caused by involvement of the posterior columns.\n\nLhermitte's phenomenon is named for French neurologist Jean Lhermitte.\n\nThe sign suggests a lesion or compression of the upper cervical spinal cord or lower brainstem—usually dorsal columns of the cervical cord or caudal medulla.\n\nAlthough often considered a classic finding in multiple sclerosis, it can be caused by a number of conditions, including transverse myelitis, Behçet's disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, trauma, radiation myelopathy, vitamin B12 deficiency (subacute combined degeneration), compression of the spinal cord in the neck from any cause such as cervical spondylosis, disc herniation, tumor, and Arnold–Chiari malformation. Lhermitte's sign may also appear during or following high-dose chemotherapy. Irradiation of the cervical spine may also evoke it as an early delayed radiation injury, which occurs within 4 months of radiation therapy.\n\nDelayed onset Lhermittes's sign has been reported following head and/or neck trauma. This occurs ~2 1/2 months following injury, without associated neurological symptoms or pain, and typically resolves within 1 year.\n\nThis sign is also sometimes seen as part of a \"discontinuation syndrome\" associated with certain psychotropic medications, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, particularly paroxetine and venlafaxine. Typically, it only occurs after having taken the medication for some duration, and then stopped or withdrawn rapidly or after administering reduced dose. Fluoxetine, given its very long half-life, can be given as a single small dose, and often avoid Lhermitte's sign and other withdrawal symptoms.\n\nIn the dental field, three studies (Layzer 1978, Gutmann 1979, Blanco 1983) have identified Lhermitte's sign among nitrous oxide abusers. This is likely due to nitrous oxide depletion of vitamin B leading to a very severe, rapid deficiency in the absence of supplementation.\n\nLhermitte's sign is not attributed to its discoverer. It was first described by Pierre Marie and Chatelin in 1917. Jean Lhermitte, a French neurologist and neuropsychiatrist, did not publish his first report until 1920. However, in 1924 he did publish the seminal article on the subject which resulted in it becoming well known.\n\nGiven that Lhermitte's sign is named for Lhermitte, it is incorrect to spell the term as \"L'hermitte's sign\".\n"}
{"id": "1898092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898092", "title": "Nuclear-free zone", "text": "Nuclear-free zone\n\nA nuclear-free zone is an area in which nuclear weapons (see nuclear-weapon-free zone) and nuclear power plants are banned. The specific ramifications of these depend on the locale in question.\n\nNuclear-free zones usually neither address nor prohibit radiopharmaceuticals used in nuclear medicine even though many of them are produced in nuclear reactors. They typically do not prohibit other nuclear technologies such as cyclotrons used in particle physics.\n\nSeveral sub-national authorities worldwide have declared themselves \"nuclear-free\". However, the label is often symbolic, as nuclear policy is usually determined and regulated at higher levels of government: nuclear weapons and components may traverse nuclear-free zones via military transport without the knowledge or consent of local authorities which had declared nuclear-free zones.\n\nPalau became the first nuclear-free nation in 1980. New Zealand was the first Western-allied nation to legislate towards a national nuclear free zone by effectively renouncing the nuclear deterrent.\n\nMany Australian local government areas of Australia have passed anti-nuclear weaponry legislation; notable among these are Brisbane, capital of Queensland, which has been nuclear weapon free since 1983, and the South and North Sydney councils. However the passage of such legislation is generally considered just a symbolic measure. The majority of councils which have passed anti-nuclear weaponry legislation are members of the Australian Nuclear Free Zones and Toxic Industries Secretariat which has 44 member councils.\n\nAustria is a nuclear free zone, when a nuclear power station was built during the 1970s at Zwentendorf, Austria, start-up was prevented by a popular vote in 1978. The completed power plant is now marketed as a shooting location for film and television. On July 9, 1997, the Austrian Parliament voted unanimously to maintain the country's anti-nuclear policy.\n\nIronically, the headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency is located in Vienna, and the IAEA maintains nuclear laboratories both in Vienna and Seibersdorf. The IAEA has also established programs to assist nuclear energy projects in developing countries.\n\nAustria's anti-nuclear stance also causes tension with its nuclear neighbors. Vienna is located close to the Czech reactor at Temelin, and four reactors are being built in neighboring Slovakia and two in neighboring Hungary. Austria also draws from regional electricity grids, meaning it imports nuclear power, although chancellor Werner Faymann has pledged to eliminate Austria's reliance on foreign power by 2015.\n\nVancouver is a nuclear weapons free city. Victoria, British Columbia is also a nuclear weapons free city. This has caused problems as nearby Esquimalt houses CFB Esquimalt, Canada's Pacific naval base, which is used frequently by the United States Navy. The USN routinely sends ships or aircraft carriers loaded with nuclear weapons to Esquimalt. As a result, the ships are forced to dock out of the city limits as not to violate the city by-laws.The policy does not limit operations at TRIUMF, Canada's national laboratory for nuclear and particle physics at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver. The province of British Columbia also bans mining for uranium, and the construction of nuclear power plants within its territorial limits.\n\nNanaimo, British Columbia, Kitimat, British Columbia; Red Deer, Alberta, and Regina, Saskatchewan are also nuclear weapons-free cities.\n\nAll states of Central Asia have signed the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and signed the Central Asian Nuclear Weapon Free Zone treaty. Thus, there are no technologies to create a weapon or enrich the particles, but in Tajikistan, during the Soviet Union, such initiatives were brought to life, but with the collapse of the Soviet Union, the facilities were dismantled and moved to the Russian Federation. The Treaty came into force on 21 March 2009.\n\nAfter Estonia seceded from the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, Estonia became a nuclear-free country. \nThe two land-based nuclear reactors at the Soviet Navy nuclear submarine training centre in Paldiski were removed when Russia finally relinquished control of the nuclear reactor facilities in September 1995.\nThere are no nuclear power stations in Estonia.\n\nAs a resource-poor nation, Japan is heavily reliant on nuclear power, but its unique experience in World War II has led to the wholesale rejection of nuclear weapons, holding nuclear weapons shall not be manufactured in, possessed by, or allowed entry into Japan. These tenets, known as the Three Non-Nuclear Principles, were first stated by Prime Minister Eisaku Satō in 1967, and were adopted as a parliamentary resolution in 1971, though they have never formally been entered into law. They continue to reflect the attitudes of both government and the general public, who remain staunchly opposed to the manufacture or use of nuclear weapons.\n\nThe Japan Self-Defense Forces have never made any attempt to manufacture or otherwise obtain nuclear arms, and no nuclear weapons are known to have been introduced into the Japanese Home Islands since the end of World War II. While the United States does not maintain nuclear bases within its military installations on the Home Islands, it is believed to have once stored weapons at Okinawa, which remained under US administrative jurisdiction until 1972.\n\nItaly is a nuclear free zone since the Italian nuclear power referendum of November 1987. Following center-right parties' victory in the 2008 election, Italy's industry minister announced that the government scheduled the construction to start the first new Italian nuclear-powered plant by 2013. The announced project was paused in March 2011, after the Japanese earthquake, and scrapped after a referendum on 12–13 June 2011.\n\nIn 1984, Prime Minister David Lange barred nuclear-powered or nuclear-armed ships from using New Zealand ports or entering New Zealand waters. Under the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act 1987, territorial sea and land of New Zealand became nuclear weapons and nuclear-powered ship free zones. It does not ban nuclear power stations. A research reactor was operated by the University of Canterbury until 1981. Official planning for a nuclear power station continued until the 1980s. A nuclear reactor provided electricity for McMurdo Station, in the New Zealand Antarctic Territory from 1962–1972.\n\nThe Act prohibits \"entry into the internal waters of New Zealand 12 miles (22.2 km) radius by any ship whose propulsion is wholly or partly dependent on nuclear power\" and bans the dumping of radioactive waste within the nuclear-free zone, as well as prohibiting any New Zealand citizen or resident \"to manufacture, acquire, possess, or have any control over any nuclear explosive device.\" Combined with the firm policy of the United States to \"neither confirm nor deny\" whether particular naval vessels carry nuclear weapons (a \"policy of deliberate ambiguity\"), the Act effectively bars these ships from entering New Zealand waters.\n\nNew Zealand's security treaty with the United States, ANZUS, did not mention nuclear deterrence and did not require unconditional port access. However, after New Zealand refused entry to USS \"Buchanan\" in 1985, the United States government suspended its ANZUS obligations to New Zealand, seeing New Zealand's effective rejection of United States Navy vessels as voiding the treaty. The Lange Labour government did not see their stance as incompatible with the treaty and sought a compromise for over two years before passing the Act. Support for the non-nuclear policy was bolstered by the perceived over-reaction of the United States and by the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior by French spies while docked in Auckland. According to some commentators, the legislation was a milestone in New Zealand's development as a nation and seen as an important act of sovereignty, self-determination and cultural identity. New Zealand’s three decade anti-nuclear campaign is the only successful movement of its type in the world which resulted in the nation's nuclear-free zone status being enshrined in legislation.\n\nThe nuclear-free zone law does not make building land-based nuclear power plants illegal. However, the relatively small electricity system, abundance of other resources to generate electricity, and public opposition has meant a nuclear power plant has never gone beyond the investigation phase – a nuclear power plant was proposed north of Auckland in the early 1970s, but the discovery of large natural gas reserves in Taranaki saw the proposal shelved.\n\nNuclear weapons-free Nordic (\"Finn. Ydinaseeton Pohjola\") was an initiative by the President of Finland Urho Kekkonen for a nuclear weapons-free zone in the Nordic countries. The aim was to prevent the Nordic countries from becoming a nuclear battleground and a route for cruise missiles in the event of a nuclear war between the Soviet Union and NATO.\n\nNuclear energy, however, is used in both Finland and Sweden.\n\nPalau adopted its first constitution in July 1979, stating that the Micronesian country would be \"nuclear-free\". The United States told the Palauan government that this constitution was likely incompatible with the Compact of Free Association. The Palauan government submitted a revised version of the constitution without the \"nuclear-free\" clause the following October. The Palauan people rejected the revised document and reinstated the original constitution in July 1980. Seven years later, however, the Palauan people voted to overturn their nuclear-free status out of \"economic survival\".\n\nThe Nuclear Free Zone Movement in the United Kingdom was very strong in early 1980s; up to two hundred local authorities including county councils, district councils and city councils such as the Greater London Council (GLC) (before its abolition) declared themselves to be 'nuclear free'. The first 'nuclear-free zone' in the UK was Manchester City Council in 1980 – this still exists to this day. Wales became 'nuclear free' on 23 February 1982 after Clwyd County Council declared itself 'nuclear free' and the Nuclear Free Wales Declaration was made. This policy was legally underpinned by Section 137 of the Local Government Act, which allowed local authorities to spend a small amount on whatever members considered was in the interest of their area or a part of their area.\n\nUK nuclear-free local authorities refused to take part in civil defence exercises relating to nuclear war, which they thought were futile. The non-cooperation of the nuclear-free zone authorities was the main reason for the cancellation of the national 'Hard Rock' civil defence exercise in July 1982. In England and Wales 24 of the 54 county councils refused to participate and seven more co-operated only in a half-hearted way. This has been seen as a victory for the British Peace movement against the policies of Margaret Thatcher. Generally, nuclear-free zones were predominantly Labour Party controlled councils but Liberal Party and even a few Conservative Party councillors were often active in this respect too.\n\nA number of towns, cities and counties in the United States established themselves as Nuclear-Free Zones in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. The first was Missoula, Montana. In the November 1978 general election, Missoula voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot initiative in the form of a land-use ordinance establishing the entirety of Missoula County as a \"'nuclear free' zoning district\" banning all nuclear facilities except those for medical purposes. (In the same election, Montana voters approved a statewide initiative by a 2–1 margin barring nuclear facilities or reactors without strict state-enforced regulatory standards and ratification by popular referendum, and in a follow-up 1980 initiative, Montanans narrowly voted to ban the disposal of nuclear waste.) That Missoula's measure was originally drafted as a zoning ordinance legally enforceable by the county planning department apparently created the popular term \"Nuclear Free Zone\" adopted as the name of the local political action group sponsoring the initiative and later used by other jurisdictions worldwide.\n\nSubsequently, the tiny town of Garrett Park, Maryland, attracted worldwide attention with its referendum in May, 1982. The following year, Takoma Park, Maryland, was officially declared a nuclear-free zone in 1983 by then-mayor Sam Abbott. A citizen committee of the local city council continues to monitor city contracts. The city cannot hold contracts with any company associated with any aspect of nuclear weapons without a waiver from the citizen committee. In September 2005, Takoma Park took a stand against the transportation of high-level nuclear waste through the City. It voted to amend its Nuclear-Free Zone Ordinance to give its citizen committee responsibility to collect information and from this information and from consultations with individuals and organizations involved in the transportation of high-level nuclear waste, to advise the City on how to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens from harmful exposure to high-level nuclear waste.\n\nAnother well-known nuclear-free community is Berkeley, California, whose citizens passed the Nuclear Free Berkeley Act in 1986 which allows the city to levy fines for nuclear weapons-related activity and to boycott companies involved in the United States nuclear infrastructure. The City of Berkeley has posted signs at city limits proclaiming its nuclear free status. The ordinance specifies possible fines for such activities within its borders. The University of California, Berkeley is deeply involved in the history of nuclear weapons, and the University of California system until recently managed operations at Los Alamos National Laboratory, a U.S. nuclear weapons design laboratory, and continues to manage the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. At the time of the passage of the act, the University operated a nuclear reactor for research purposes, the Etcheverry Reactor, which it continued to operate after the act went into effect. The University of California, as a state institution, is not subject to Berkeley's municipal regulations, including the ban. Berkeley also has major freeway and train lines which are used in transporting nuclear materials.\n\nOn November 14, 1984 the Davis, California City Council declared the city to be a nuclear-free zone. Davis has major freeway and train arteries running through it which are used for transporting nuclear materials. The University of California, with a campus at Davis, runs a research reactor at the nearby former McClellan Air Force Base, as well as workers who are involved with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.\n\nOn November 8, 1988 the city of Oakland, California passed \"Measure T\" with 57% of the vote, making that city a nuclear free zone. Under Ordinance No. 11062 CMS then passed on December 6, 1988, the city is restricted from doing business with \"\"any entity knowingly engaged in nuclear weapons work and any of its agents, subsidiaries or affiliates which are engaged in nuclear weapons work.\"\" The measure was invalidated in federal court, on the grounds that it interfered with the Federal Government's constitutional authority over national defense and atomic energy. The issue being Oakland is a major port, and like Berkeley, and Davis, has major freeway and train arteries running through it. In 1992, the Oakland City Council unanimously reinstated modified elements of the older ordinance, reportedly bringing the total number of Nuclear Free Zones in the United States at that time to 188, with a total population of over 17 million in 27 states.\n\nOther cities, counties, and other governments within the United States passing nuclear free zone ordinances and the date of adoption, when known:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898095", "title": "Sleeping Dogs", "text": "Sleeping Dogs\n\nSleeping Dogs may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898103", "title": "Harvard Branch Railroad", "text": "Harvard Branch Railroad\n\nThe Harvard Branch Railroad was a short-lived branch from the Fitchburg Railroad to Harvard Square and Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Part of the former right-of-way is now used by Museum Street.\n\nThe company was incorporated April 24, 1849, and soon built a line long from just west of Somerville station on the Fitchburg Railroad (at Park Street) southwest to Harvard. On April 19, 1854 it was authorized to abandon the line, and did so in 1855. The Cambridge Railroad started running to Harvard from Boston in 1856 as a street railway, via a different route.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898108", "title": "Puducherry Munnetra Congress", "text": "Puducherry Munnetra Congress\n\nThe Puducherry Munnetra Congress, formerly known as the \"Pondicherry Munnetra Congress\", (PMC or புமுக) is a political party in India active in the Union Territory of Puducherry. It was formed by P. Kannan on 11 May 2005. Its symbol is bridge.\n\nAt present, the party holds 3 seats in the Puducherry Legislative Assembly which they won during the 2006 elections with All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) as its ally.\n\nDuring the general election of 2009, the party switched camps and now supports the Indian National Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898113", "title": "Sam Jackson (publisher)", "text": "Sam Jackson (publisher)\n\nCharles Samuel \"Sam\" Jackson (September 15, 1860 – December 27, 1924) was a prominent newspaper publisher in the U.S. state of Oregon.\n\nBorn in Deltaville, Virginia, Jackson went west in 1880, settling in Pendleton, Oregon. There, he bought the Pendleton-based \"East Oregonian\", becoming its publisher in 1882 and developing it into a successful regional paper.\n\nIn 1886, Sam Jackson and the former Maria Clopton, also originally from Virginia, were married, in Pendleton. They had two sons, Francis C. and Philip L. Jackson, both born in Pendleton.\n\nIn 1902, a group of influential Portlanders persuaded Jackson to sell the \"East Oregonian\" and move to Portland to revive the failing \"Portland Evening Journal\". Under his direction, the latter was renamed first the \"Oregon Daily Journal\" and then simply \"The Oregon Journal\". The \"Journal\" became successful as the main (Democratic-leaning) competitor to Portland's (Republican-leaning) daily paper, \"The Oregonian\". In his first editorial at the helm of the paper, on July 23, 1902, Jackson declared that:\n\nThe \"Journal\" in head and heart will stand for the people, be truly Democratic and free from political entanglements and machinations, believing in the principles that promise the greatest good to the greatest number – to ALL MEN, regardless of race, creed or previous condition of servitude... It shall be a FAIR newspaper and not a dull and selfish sheet – [and] a credit to 'Where rolls the Oregon' country.\n\nJackson led the \"Journal\" for 22 years as owner, publisher and editor, until his death in 1924. His son, Philip succeeded him, serving as publisher for 29 years, until his death at the age of 59, in 1953. Maria Jackson remained involved in the business until her death in 1956, at the age of 93.\n\nC.S. \"Sam\" Jackson was inducted into the Oregon Newspaper Hall of Fame in 1979.\n\nIn 1917, Jackson donated 88 acres (356,000 m²) on Marquam Hill in Portland to the University of Oregon Medical School; the site, then known as Sam Jackson Park, is now the campus of the Oregon Health & Science University. The street serving it continues to be named SW Sam Jackson Park Road.\n\nJackson Tower, former home of \"The Oregon Journal\" in downtown Portland, is named for him.\n\nIn October 1960, four years after Maria Jackson's death, based on provisions in her will, The Jackson Foundation was established. According to the foundation's website, \"The Foundation continues today as a permanent fund governed by the following language in her will:\n\nThe income from the trust shall be distributed by the trustees for use within the State of Oregon for charitable, educational or eleemosynary purposes and for the advancement of public welfare. The trustees shall have wide discretion in the selection of the particular purposes for which said distribution shall be made and shall select beneficiaries as they shall deem to be most appropriate and best calculated to promote the welfare of the public of the City of Portland or the State of Oregon, or both.\n\n\"Alder Lea\", a log house built for Sam Jackson in 1912–15 on a tract on the Clackamas River, for use as a summer retreat, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1981, as the C. S. \"Sam\" Jackson Log House.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898116", "title": "Radio (2003 film)", "text": "Radio (2003 film)\n\nRadio is a 2003 American semi-biographical sports drama film directed by Mike Tollin, and inspired by the 1996 \"Sports Illustrated\" article \"Someone to Lean On\" by Gary Smith. The article and the movie are based on the true story of T. L. Hanna High School football coach Harold Jones (Ed Harris) and a mentally handicapped young man, James Robert \"Radio\" Kennedy (Cuba Gooding Jr.). The film co-stars Debra Winger and Alfre Woodard. It was filmed primarily in Walterboro, South Carolina because its buildings and downtown core still fit the look of the era the film was trying to depict.\n\nIn the 1970's, James Robert \"Radio\" Kennedy, a young, 28 year old mentally-disabled man, lives alone with his mother who, as a nurse, spends much of the day at work. Radio spends much of the day roaming the town and pushing a shopping cart, which he uses to collect anything interesting he finds. Radio often pauses to observe the local high school football team in their training sessions, led by Coach Harold Jones. During one such session, the football falls out of bounds, allowing Radio to collect it and haul it away in his cart. The team retaliates the following day by tying Radio's hands and feet and locking him in the gear shed. Coach Jones frees Radio and punishes the team. Jones takes it upon himself to assist in Radio's care, and gives him his nickname due to his penchant for listening to the radio. Radio begins assisting Coach Jones on the football team, and incites the team before each match as a mascot-type figure. Radio's increased attention from Jones is faced with resistance from the football team's parents, who see Radio as a distraction from their own sons' successes.\n\nUpon the end of the football season, Jones involves Radio with several activities within the high school, and winds up neglecting his daughter Mary Helen, who is a member of the high school's cheerleading squad. At a Christmas mass, Radio receives several gifts from the townspeople, and Mary Helen confides to her father that while she does not blame him for neglecting her, she cannot understand the reason for his interest in Radio. The following day, Radio distributes the gifts around town. He soon encounters a suspicious police officer, and his impaired ability to communicate leads to his arrest on the charge of possessing stolen property. However, the other officers recognize Radio and he is released. Following the holidays, Radio begins taking classes in the high school to complete his formal education. One day, Radio is instigated by one of the basketball team players to enter the girls' locker room. Radio is reluctant to tell anyone who set him up, but Coach Jones determines the player's identity regardless and punishes him by ordering him to sit out of a decisive basketball match.\n\nRadio's mother suddenly dies of a heart attack, and Radio finds himself living alone until his absent older brother Walter finally returns to care for him. That same evening, Jones reveals to Mary Helen that his attachment to Radio and need to assist him stems from a childhood incident in which Jones, as a child making a living off delivering packages, did not help a mentally-disabled boy his own age crying behind barbed wire. Following the death of Radio's mother, pressure from the school board to have Radio put in a specialized institution strengthens. The association between Radio and Coach Jones is further blamed for the team's inability to win. In a meeting with the townspeople, Jones speaks of Radio being a blessing for the community by showing how people should treat one another, and announces his resignation as head coach so that he may spend more time with his family. At Radio's high school graduation, he receives an honorary diploma and a letterman jacket. Clips are shown of the real-life Radio leading the football team well into his fifties.\n\n\nThe film's lead character, Radio, is based on James Robert \"Radio\" Kennedy, who was born October 14, 1946 in Anderson, South Carolina. His nickname, Radio, was given to him by townspeople because Kennedy grew up fascinated by radios and because of the radio he carried everywhere he went. He was known to ask students before football games, \"We gonna get that quarterback?\", and say \"We gonna win tonight!\". ReelSports provided the football and basketball coordination for the film.\n\nJames Robert Kennedy died on December 15, 2019, aged 73.\n\nOn review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a 36% approval rating with the consensus reading: \"The story is heavy on syrupy uplift and turns \"Radio\" into a saint/cuddly pet\". The film holds a score of 38 out of 100 on Metacritic. The film grossed $52.3 million with a budget of approximately $30 million. Cuba Gooding Jr. earned a Golden Raspberry Award nomination for Worst Actor for his performance in the film but also an NAACP Image Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture.\n\nThe soundtrack to \"Radio\" was released on October 21, 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898122", "title": "Diane Disney Miller", "text": "Diane Disney Miller\n\nDiane Marie Disney-Miller (December 18, 1933 – November 19, 2013) was the only biological child of Walt Disney and his wife Lillian Bounds Disney. Diane co-founded the Walt Disney Family Museum alongside her family. She was president of the Board of Directors of the Walt Disney Family Foundation. The museum, which opened in 2009, was established to promote and inspire creativity and innovation and celebrate and study the life of Walt Disney.\n\nMiller was a patron of the arts, as well as a lifelong classical music enthusiast and a generous philanthropist . \n\nMiller published a series of eight pieces for the \"Saturday Evening Post\" in 1956 titled \"My Dad, Walt Disney,\" co-written with Pete Martin. In 1957 she published the book \"The Story of Walt Disney\". After her husband was removed from his executive position at Walt Disney Productions in 1984, Miller began to limit her involvement with the company. In an interview with Diane in 2005, she recalled that she and Sharon lived a typical life, as both parents were very protective, caring and loving. \n\nMiller was instrumental in pushing ahead with the Walt Disney Concert Hall in downtown Los Angeles. The project was initiated with a $50 million gift from her mother in 1988, but was stalled for a time due to cost negotiations. She was an ardent supporter of architect Frank Gehry as its designer. The hall finally opened in 2004.\n\nAfter devoting her earlier life to raising her seven children, Miller undertook an active advocacy to document the life and accomplishments of her father, who she perceived to have been the subject of poorly researched biographies and inaccurate rumors. She was also concerned that his name had become more of a corporate identity than a reference to the man himself. In 2001, the Walt Disney Family Foundation released \"The Man Behind the Myth\", a documentary film about Walt Disney's life featuring interviews with his colleagues, peers, and family. In 2009, Diane co-founded the Walt Disney Family Museum with her son Walter Elias Disney Miller, who is a movie producer, and Disney was also the President of the Board of Directors of the Walt Disney Family Foundation at the time of her death, which is a nonprofit organization that owns and operates the Walt Disney Family Museum, located in Presidio in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2015, the inaugural Diane Disney Miller Lifetime Achievement Award was created to honor the Museum's founder, to recognize those who have made an outstanding impact in the field of arts, education, community involvement, or technological advancements.\n\n\nBorn in Los Angeles on December 18, 1933, Diane Disney Miller attended Los Feliz Grammar School, before moving to Immaculate Heart High School (Los Angeles) for junior high school and high school. She went on to study English at the University of Southern California.\n\nWhen she was 20 years old, Diane was introduced to 21-year-old University of Southern California student Ron Miller, a member of the USC Trojans football team, on a blind date after a University of California–USC game. They married in a small Episcopal church ceremony in Santa Barbara on May 9, 1954. Together, Diane and Ron had seven children whom they were survived by: Christopher (b. 1954), Joanna (b. 1956), Tamara (b. 1957), Jennifer (later Miller-Goff; b. 1960), Walter (b. 1961), Ronald (b. 1963), and Patrick (b. 1967).\n\nRonald then served in the Army and played professional football before Walt convinced him to work for the Walt Disney Studios, and ascended from film directing and production to president and CEO of what is now The Walt Disney Company. In 1988, Lillian Disney, her mother, announced plans to contribute $50 million to the Los Angeles Concert Hall in Downtown Los Angeles, which Diane would later come to support throughout her life. More than 70 architectural firms submitted proposals to the head director, Frank Gehry. By 1996, the project was almost dead, but Diane persuaded Gehry to move forward with it, despite problems with poor management and disagreements over the design, and Los Angeles County officials' attempts to cancel it. It was supposed to be worth $10 million by 1997. Diane arranged for the Walt Disney Family Foundation to contribute about $25 million to keep Gehry in control, and the hall finally opened in 2003, at the cost of $247 million. Although Lillian Disney died in 1997 and never saw a concert there, Diane continued to support the concert hall. \n\nDuring that time, Diane traveled to Napa Valley with her mother, Lillian, to visit several wineries. The trip inspired Miller to start a vineyard, with the possibility of a winery. With the children grown, Ron left the company and the entertainment industry in 1984, and both he and Diane went on to develop the renowned Silverado Vineyards Winery in Napa, which became their home. In 1976, the family purchased a large property along the Silverado Trail in the Stags Leap District. They planted Cabernet Sauvignon and Chardonnay and started making wine in 1981. They expanded the winery to only using estate-grown grapes, and Diane helped create a home and a family-like atmosphere rather than just a business.\n\nDiane Disney Miller died on November 19, 2013, at age 79 from medical complications that developed after a fall. She was survived by her husband, her seven children, thirteen grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.\n\nThe film \"Saving Mr. Banks\" is dedicated to her memory; Miller died shortly before it opened theatrically. \n\nRon and Diane Disney Miller received a special thank you in \"Inside Out\" (2015).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898125", "title": "Judaean Mountains", "text": "Judaean Mountains\n\nThe Judaean Mountains, or Judaean Hills ( \"Harei Yehuda\", \"Jibal Al Khalil\" (lit. \"Hebron Mountains\")), is a mountain range in Israel and the West Bank where Jerusalem and several other biblical cities are located. The mountains reach a height of . The Judean Mountains can be separated to a number of sub-regions, including the Mount Hebron ridge, the Jerusalem ridge and the Judean slopes. These mountains formed the heartland of the Kingdom of Judah, where the earliest Jewish settlements emerged.\n\nThe Judaean mountains are part of a more extended range that runs in a north-south direction. The ridge consists of the Samarian Hills in its northern part, and of the Judaean mountains in its southern part, the two segments meeting at the latitude of Ramallah. The westward descent from the hard limestone country of the Judaean mountains towards the coastal plain is by way of a longitudinal trough of fosse cut through chalk, followed by the low, rolling soft limestone hills of the Shephelah, while eastwards the landscape falls steeply towards the Jordan Rift Valley. The southern end of the mountain range is at Beersheba in the northern part of the Negev, where the mountains slope down into the Beersheba-Arad valley. The average height of the Judaean mountains is of , and they encompass the cities of Ramallah, Jerusalem, Bethlehem and Hebron. The northern section of the Judaean mountains is referred to as Jerusalem Hills, and the southern one as Hebron Hills.\n\nThe Judaean Mountains were heavily forested in antiquity. The range is mostly composed of terra rossa soils over hard limestones.\n\nThe Judaean Mountains are the surface expression of a series of monoclinic folds which trend north-northwest through Israel. The folding is the central expression of the Syrian Arc belt of anticlinal folding that began in the Late Cretaceous Period in northeast Africa and southwest Asia. The Syrian Arc extends east-northeast across the Sinai, turns north-northeast through Israel and continues the east-northeast trend into Syria. The Israeli segment parallels the Dead Sea Transform which lies just to the east. The uplift events that created the mountain occurred in two phases one in the Late Eocene-Early Oligocene and second in the Early Miocene.\n\nIn prehistoric times, animals no longer found in the Levant region were found here, including elephants, rhinoceri, giraffes and wild Asian water buffalo. \nThe range has karst topography including a stalactite cave in Nahal Sorek National Park between Jerusalem and Beit Shemesh and the area surrounding Ofra, where fossils of prehistoric flora and fauna were found.\n\nIn ancient times the Judean mountains were the allotment of the Tribe of Judah and the heartland of the former Kingdom of Judah.\n\nAn Israel Railways line runs from Beit Shemesh along the Brook of Sorek and Valley of Rephaim into Jerusalem Malha Train Station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898130", "title": "Bag of Bones", "text": "Bag of Bones\n\nBag of Bones is a 1998 horror novel by American writer Stephen King. It focuses on an author who suffers severe writer's block and delusions at an isolated lake house four years after the death of his wife. It won the Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel in 1998, and the British Fantasy Award for Best Novel in 1999. The book re-uses many basic plot elements of Daphne du Maurier's \"Rebecca\", which is directly referenced several times in the book's opening pages; however, the relation of these elements (including a wife who is dead as the book opens, her posthumous effect on future romance, a drowning, and house haunted by the memories of previous inhabitants) to the plot and characters is markedly different. When the paperback edition of \"Bag of Bones\" was published by Pocket Books on June 1, 1999 (), it included a new author's note at the end of the book, in which Stephen King describes his initial three-book deal with Scribner (\"Bag of Bones\", \"\", and a collection of short stories titled \"One Headlight\", which later became \"Everything's Eventual\"), and devotes most of the piece describing the origins of the then-forthcoming \"Hearts in Atlantis\".\n\nStephen King had been publishing his books with Viking since \"The Dead Zone\" in 1979. In October 1997, after Viking published King's then-latest novel, \"Desperation\" (1996), and King's deal with Viking expired, it was being reported that King was seeking a large advance for his next novel ($17–18 million according to various reports) and 26% of gross sales, whereas his deal with Viking previously paid a $15 million advance per book. King also wanted to move to a more literary and prestigious publisher. Ultimately, King left Viking and on November 6, 1997 signed an initial three-book deal with Simon & Schuster, with a $2 million advance for \"Bag of Bones\" in addition to 50% profit-sharing. The novel, first reported to be a thousand pages but turned out to be nearly half that, was billed as \"a haunted love story\", and this phrase was printed on the back cover of the hardcover first edition, which had a print-run of 1.4 million copies.\n\nThe narrator, Mike Noonan, a bestselling novelist, suffers severe writer's block after his pregnant wife Jo suddenly dies in a road accident. Four years later, Mike, still grieving, is plagued by nightmares set at his summer house in TR-90 (an unincorporated town named for its map coordinates), Maine. He decides to confront his fears and moves to his vacation house on Dark Score Lake, known as \"Sara Laughs\".\n\nOn his first day, he meets Kyra, a 3-year-old girl and her young widowed mother, 20-year-old Mattie Devore. Mattie's father-in-law is Max Devore, an elderly rich man who will do anything to gain custody of his granddaughter, Kyra. Drawn to Kyra and Mattie, Mike hires John Storrow, a custody lawyer, for Mattie, and things start looking up. Mike begins to write again, and realizes that Jo's ghost is helping him to solve the mystery of Sara Tidwell, a blues singer whose ghost haunts the house. He also learns that Jo frequently returned to the town in the year before her death, without telling him.\n\nMike begins having recurring, disturbing dreams and visions, and realizes he shares a psychic connection with Kyra. Max and his personal assistant, Rogette, try to drown Mike but he survives with the help of his wife's spirit. Max unexpectedly commits suicide that same night. Mike sees a pattern when he sees that local inhabitants have names that begin with \"K\" or \"C\" and learns how relatives of townspeople have drowned in childhood.\n\nWhile Storrow and the private detective he hired are celebrating the end of the custody battle, Mattie attempts to seduce Mike. As they are embracing, Mattie's trailer is subjected to a drive-by shooting, injuring Storrow and the detective \nand killing Mattie. The detective is able to kill the driver and incapacitate the shooter with Mike's help. Mike then grabs Kyra and drives back to his home. The shooter's buddies try to stop them, but refuse to follow him to \"Sara Laughs.\" Under the influence of Sara's ghost, Mike is tormented to drown Kyra and commit suicide himself. Jo's ghost prevents him and calls his attention to the novel he has begun to write. In the pages there are clues that lead Mike to discover documents Jo had hidden, among them a genealogy showing Mike's blood relationship to one of the town families.\n\nSeveral families whose origin lay within the town had firstborn children with \"K\" names who were all murdered—Kyra, as a descendant of Max Devore, is scheduled to be the next to die. The genealogy also shows that Mike and Jo's child would have been the next firstborn child with a \"K\" name in the family line. Mike realizes this must be Sara Tidwell's curse for something that had been done to her. He leaves and searches for Sara's grave, stopped by the ghosts of several members of the old families. He learns in a vision that these men had viciously raped and killed Sara, and drowned her son Kito in the lake; \nall the \"K\" children who died were descendants of those men. Mike reaches Sara's grave and succeeds in destroying her bones, ending the curse.\n\nUpon returning to the house, Mike discovers that Rogette has kidnapped Kyra. He follows them to the lake, where Mattie's ghost appears and knocks Rogette into the water. Rogette tries to pull Mike in with her, but is impaled by wreckage from the dock. Mattie's ghost says her goodbyes to Mike and Kyra.\n\nThe novel ends with an epilogue, revealing that Mike has retired from writing and is attempting to adopt Kyra. His status as a single, unrelated male complicates things, and the adoption has taken longer than anticipated. The outcome of the adoption is left unresolved at the end, but the reader is given hope that it will be positive.\n\n\"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" reviewer Charles de Lint declared \"Bag of Bones\" to be \"a powerful, moving novel.\" Elizabeth Hand praised it lavishly: \"What is extraordinary here is how good the writing is. . . . The characterizations are plummy, the dialogue sharp, and even the ghosts play second fiddle to Mike Noonan and his genuinely anguished midlife crisis.\"\n\n\nThe audio version of \"Bag of Bones\" is noteworthy in several respects. Like most Stephen King books, the audio version is unabridged. It is read by Stephen King himself, one of several books he has read himself for audio version publication, including \"Hearts in Atlantis\", \"Lunch at the Gotham Cafe\", and \"In the Deathroom\". Intermingled with the text are bits of music and a song sung by Sara Tidwell; this music and song were recorded specifically for the audio version of \"Bag of Bones\". Finally, the audio version of this book includes an interview with Stephen King.\n\nA trade paperback edition was published in the fall of 2008, commemorating the tenth anniversary of the novel's release in 1998. It contained a Questions & Answers with Stephen King, along with \"The Cat from Hell,\" a short story from his then upcoming collection \"Just After Sunset\".\n\nA 2 1/2 hour (approximately 4 hours with commercials) TV miniseries produced by Stewart Mackinnon and Mark Sennet, directed by Mick Garris and with teleplay by screenwriter Matt Venne aired on A&E in December 2011. Irish actor Pierce Brosnan plays Mike Noonan, with Broadway actress Anika Noni Rose taking the role of Sara Tidwell. Filming took place in and around Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada in August and September 2011. The miniseries changes Sara's son Kito to a daughter named Kisha for unknown reasons, and there is no reference to the genealogy seen in the book, as Mike is well aware that his grandfather lived in Dark Score Lake, but was not aware of the fact that his grandfather had been one of the men who raped Sara. The ending of the miniseries was also changed. Jo confronts Sara while Mike works to destroy Sara and her daughter's bodies with lye and succeeds. Rogette then appears at Mike's home and tries to kill him after forcing Kyra into the bathtub. Mike kills her in self-defense with no aid from Mattie's ghost and the miniseries closes with Mike and Kyra going canoeing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898139", "title": "J Mascis + The Fog", "text": "J Mascis + The Fog\n\nJ Mascis + The Fog was formed by J Mascis after the break up of Dinosaur Jr. The project released two albums; 2000's \"More Light\" and 2002's \"Free So Free\".\n\nAfter fulfilling his contractual obligations to Blanco y Negro in the UK and Sire/Reprise in the US, Mascis holed up in his home studio in Amherst, MA, which he named Bob's Place after his pet bulldog. Recording 99% of the instruments on the recordings, he emerged from the studio with the first J Mascis + The Fog album, \"More Light\", an album title inspired by Mascis's growing interest in \"hugging saint\" Ammachi. One of the pivotal songs on the album, \"Ammaring\", is also about Ammachi. Mascis signed with Artemis Records to release the album.\n\nTo promote \"More Light\", Mascis enlisted sometime Dinosaur Jr. drummer George Berz and former Minutemen and Firehose bassist Mike Watt. Mascis had worked with Watt several times before - most notably producing the final Firehose album \"Mr. Machinery Operator\" (1993), on which he also contributed some guitar and vocal parts, and contributing guitar and drum performances to several songs on Watt's first solo album \"Ball-Hog or Tugboat?\". They embarked on four separate tours between October 2000 and the spring of 2001, including a tour of Japan and Australia, a European tour, and two full tours of the US. The set lists would be a mix of songs from both \"More Light\" and the Dinosaur Jr. back catalog, along with a handful of Stooges songs and a version of Black Flag's \"I've Had It\" with lead vocals sung by Watt.\n\nDuring their first European tour, J Mascis + The Fog participated in a John Peel session for BBC Radio 1, during which the band recorded a medley consisting of Teenage Fanclub's \"Everything Flows\", Pavement's \"Range Life\", and The Ruts' \"In a Rut\". This session is the only commercially available studio recording of the 2000–2001 line-up featuring Watt, and, along with a later J Mascis solo session from 2002, was released on CD by the Strange Fruit label in 2003.\n\nAt some of the tour dates, the band were frequently joined onstage by former Stooges guitarist Ron Asheton, during which time Mascis and The Fog would play several Stooges classics. Sometimes the group would be joined by guest vocalists like Evan Dando and Primal Scream's Bobby Gillespie; a London appearance by The Fog with Asheton and Gillespie was marred when a fan spat upon Gillespie, which provoked the singer into hitting the fan with a microphone stand as The Fog and Asheton were playing \"No Fun\". The Gillespie incident notwithstanding, these appearances by Asheton later led to a one-time supergroup of Mascis, Watt, Asheton, and Ron's brother and fellow Stooge Scott Asheton, which led to the reformation of the Stooges themselves with vocalist Iggy Pop and Watt replacing the late original Stooges bassist Dave Alexander.\n\nA second European tour behind \"More Light\" was cut short when the band was involved in a van accident en route to a Swedish concert. Mascis suffered minor back injuries but rebounded from them fairly quickly and began work on the second J Mascis + The Fog album, \"Free So Free\", released in 2002. Around the \"Free So Free\" tour, Mascis enlisted Kyle Spence on drums and Dave Schools (from Widespread Panic) on bass. This would be the final touring incarnation.\n\nIn 2003, the house and studio owned by Mascis burned down.\n\nIn 2005, Mascis put his Fog project on hold in order to tend to other business, mainly the reformation of the original Dinosaur Jr. lineup, to coincide with the re-release on the Merge label of the first three Dinosaur Jr. albums that had previously been on Homestead and SST.\n\nIn December 2009, Mascis played a few shows in England with The Fog, using the Spence/Schools lineup.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898142", "title": "Malaysian Dayak Congress", "text": "Malaysian Dayak Congress\n\nThe Malaysian Dayak Congress (MDC) or is a political party in based in Sarawak, Malaysia representing the Dayak indigenous population. The MDC submitted the relevant documents to the Registrar of Societies (ROS) for registration on 6 May 2005. It is formed by group of supporters and leaders of the deregistered and defunct Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak (PBDS) where most of them are supporters of the ex-Deputy President of PBDS, Datuk Seri Daniel Tajem who has involved in the 2003-2004 internal party leadership crisis. As a result of the tussle of the PBDS internal leadership which Daniel Tajem supposedly take over but was disagreed by the party information chief, Daniel Tajem has caused PBDS to deregistered twice; on 5 December 2003 and 21 October 2004 by ROS. After the crisis and dissolution of PBDS, James Jemut Masing's group has formed and founded a new party Sarawak People's Party (PRS) that has joined the Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition. Meanwhile attempt for the registration of MDC by Daniel Tajem's group was declined by the Ministry of Home Affairs (KDN) through its letters dated 9 April 2008 informing ROS decision on 19 July 2006 has rejected MDC application due to \"Public Order and Security\" under Article 7 of Societies Act 1966. The pro tem committee of MDC has submitted their appeal on 12 August 2006, however up until now, the party never received its status as legal political party's status in Malaysia from ROS. The delay and reluctance of ROS to approve the registration of MDC has caused its pro tem committee deadlocked in their effort since they decided not to bring their case to the Judicial Court and just to leave their fate to god and ROS on 28 June 2008.\n\nIn the aftermath of MDC fail registration, there was also continue attempt to revive the PBDS and it was finally successfully approved and re-registered as Parti Bansa Dayak Sarawak (Baru) in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898144", "title": "Mark Whitaker (journalist)", "text": "Mark Whitaker (journalist)\n\nMark Whitaker (born September 7, 1957) is an American author, journalist and media executive.\n\nHe was the Editor of \"Newsweek\" from 1998 until 2006, the first African-American to lead a national news magazine. From 2004 to 2006, Whitaker served as President of the American Society of Magazine Editors. He was Senior Vice President and Washington Bureau Chief for NBC News. From 2011 to 2013, he was Executive Vice President and Managing Editor of CNN Worldwide.\n\nWhitaker has written the books \"My Long Trip Home\" (2011), a family memoir; \"Cosby: His Life and Times\" (2014), a biography of Bill Cosby; and \"Smoketown: The Untold Story of the Other Great Black Renaissance\" (2018), about the legacy of the African-American community of Pittsburgh.\n\nHe was named one of \"Essence\" magazine's 25 most influential African-Americans for 2008.\n\nWhitaker was born outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" with a degree in Social Studies from Harvard College in 1979, where he served on the editorial board of \"The Harvard Crimson\". He then studied International Relations at Oxford University's Balliol College from 1979 until 1981 where he was a Marshall Scholar.\n\nHe was the Editor of \"Newsweek,\" the first African-American to lead a national news magazine. While he ran the magazine, from 1998 until 2006, it won four National Magazine Awards—for coverage of 9/11, the Iraq War, the Monica Lewinsky scandal and the 2004 elections.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006, Whitaker served as President of the American Society of Magazine Editors.\n\nWhitaker was Senior Vice President and Washington Bureau Chief for NBC News, succeeding Tim Russert after his fatal heart attack in June 2008. In that role, he oversaw all Washington-based reporting and production for NBC and MSNBC during the 2008 election and early years of the Obama presidency, in addition to appearing as an on-air analyst. Before moving to Washington, he served as chief deputy to the President of NBC News in New York.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2013, he was Executive Vice President and Managing Editor of CNN Worldwide, where he oversaw daily news coverage and also persuaded the network to hire the food and travel writer Anthony Bourdain and to create the program \".\" After Bourdain's suicide in 2018, Whitaker praised the late chef's coverage of under-reported countries such as Lebanon and said, \"It's not a food show; it's journalism.\"\n\nIn 2011, Whitaker published a family memoir, \"My Long Trip Home\", about his turbulent upbringing as the child of an interracial marriage between a pioneering but self-destructive black scholar of Africa and a white French immigrant whose father, Edouard Theis, was a clergyman who helped save the lives of Jews during World War II in the French town of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon. The book won critical praise and was a finalist for the \"Los Angeles Times\" Book Prize and the Hurston-Wright Legacy Award for African-American authors. .\n\nIn 2014, Whitaker published a biography of Bill Cosby, \"Cosby: His Life and Times,\" that received favorable reviews for its portrayal of the social impact of Cosby's work as a stand-up comedian and TV star, with insights into how he dealt with the 1997 death of his son, Ennis, who was murdered in a botched robbery. It also made several \"New York Times\" bestseller lists. But it came under scrutiny when, shortly after the book was released, dozens of women came forward accusing Cosby of sexual assault. While dealing with Cosby's history of infidelity and a paternity extortion trial, Whitaker's biography did not explore the handful of assault claims that had pre-dated his book. When multiple similar allegations came to light after publication, Whitaker issued an apology and the book was not released in paperback.\n\nIn 2018, Whitaker published \"Smoketown: The Untold Story of the Other Great Black Renaissance,\" about the legacy of the African-American community of Pittsburgh, where his father grew up and his grandparents owned funeral homes. The book links stories of prominent artists who grew up in Pittsburgh—including musicians Billy Strayhorn, Billy Eckstine, Earl Hines, Mary Lou Williams, Roy Eldridge, Kenny Clarke, Ray Brown, Erroll Garner; artist Romare Bearden; and playwright August Wilson—influential journalists for the black newspaper The Pittsburgh Courier—including Robert Lee Vann, Wendell Smith and Evelyn Cunningham—and historic figures whose careers were shaped by their interaction with Pittsburgh—including Joe Louis, Jackie Robinson, Duke Ellington and Lena Horne. Both scholars of black history and experts on Pittsburgh’s local history praised the book as an important contribution to the study of African-American achievement and struggle in the mid-20th Century.\n\nWhitaker was named one of \"Essence\" magazine's 25 most influential African-Americans for 2008.\n\nWhitaker is married to Alexis Gelber, a former long-time editor at \"Newsweek\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1898156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898156", "title": "Rodney Marsh", "text": "Rodney Marsh\n\nRodney William Marsh (born 11 October 1944) is an English former footballer and football coach; he later worked as a broadcaster. A forward, he won nine caps for England between 1971 and 1973, scoring one international goal.\n\nBrought up in the East End of London, he played youth football for West Ham United before he made his professional debut with Fulham in March 1963. He scored 22 goals in 63 First Division games before falling out with the management and taking a £15,000 transfer to Queens Park Rangers in March 1966. He helped the club to the 1967 League Cup and to consecutive promotions through the Third Division and Second Division. In March 1972 he was sold to Manchester City for £200,000. He featured in the 1974 League Cup final defeat but his time in Manchester was largely disappointing and he left the UK the following year to play for American club Tampa Bay Rowdies.\n\nHe had a successful career with the Rowdies and went on to coach the club from 1984 to 1986 after previously having brief spells coaching New York United and the Carolina Lightnin'. In the 1990s he began work as a broadcaster on Sky Sports, before he was sacked in January 2005. Since that time he has appeared on numerous reality television shows, and helped to run a US-based property development company with his son.\n\nMarsh was born in Hatfield, Hertfordshire to Lilian Dredge– a housewife – and William Marsh – a docker. He grew up in Palatine Road, Stoke Newington, and in fact his mother only spent a few days in Hertfordshire so as to avoid going into labour during the Blitz. He had a rough upbringing as a child, particularly with his father, and in his autobiography said that this tough upbringing left him emotionally traumatised. His father came from an even more violent family himself, and was partially crippled at the age of 19 after being attacked by his father with a hammer. An only child, he described his family as \"incredibly poor\", and until the age of 11 he slept in the corner of his parent's bedroom – the family shared a three-storey house with two other families and the only other room they had was a living room. He attended Arsenal matches at Highbury with his father, and also went along to see reserve team matches. The family's poverty came to an end just as Marsh was beginning his professional football career – his father helped the landlord to fill out his weekly pool coupon, and the landlord had a massive win shortly before his death and left the house to Marsh's father in his will.\n\nHe played alongside Ron \"Chopper\" Harris for Hackney Schools, and scored all three goals as Hackney won the schools national championship. His father secured him a trial for the West Ham United under-16s, and he impressed enough to land himself a place in the academy. However he was released after ten months by Wally St Pier, who let Marsh go so as to open up a place on the youth team for Geoff Hurst. Soon before his sixteenth birthday, Marsh was spotted by scout Bill Brown, who offered him a place in Fulham's youth programme.\n\nMarsh began his career with First Division side Fulham, and made his debut against Aston Villa at Craven Cottage on 23 March 1963 after Johnny Haynes picked up an injury. He scored the winning goal on his debut with a volley from a George Cohen cross, prompting manager Bedford Jezzard to state that \"No boy could have had a better first game\". Haynes returned to the starting line-up the next week, but Marsh was accommodated with the number eight shirt.\n\nIn September 1963, he collided with John Sjoberg whilst scoring a winning goal against Leicester City and was ruled out of action for ten months with a broken jaw and skull. The incident left him with a permanent loss of hearing in his left ear. For weeks he was unable to keep his balance whilst standing, and he was told by one specialist that he would never play football again.\n\nHe returned to fitness in the 1964–65 season and was utilized at centre forward, and formed an effective partnership with Haynes to secure 17 goals to become the club's top-scorer. However manager Bedford Jezzard left the club and Marsh did not get along with new boss Vic Buckingham. He ridiculed Buckingham, who in turn froze Marsh out of the first team.\n\nMarsh moved across West London to join Queens Park Rangers, then in the Third Division, after manager Alec Stock paid out a £15,000 fee in March 1966. QPR finished third at the end of the 1965–66 campaign, eight points outside promoted Millwall.\n\nHis first full season with Rangers was his most successful, as he formed an effective strike partnership with Les Allen, whilst Roger Morgan and Mark Lazarus delivered reliable service from the wings. Marsh scored his first hat-trick for the club in a 4–0 win over Middlesbrough. He scored 44 goals in 53 games as the club became Third Division champions; his 30 league goals made him the division's top-scorer. QPR also won the League Cup, with Marsh setting Rangers on their way with four goals during a 5–0 victory over Colchester United at Layer Road. They needed a replay to overcome Aldershot, before they beat Swansea Town, top-flight Leicester City, Carlisle United and Birmingham City. Their opponents in the Wembley final were West Bromwich Albion, who had won the cup the previous year. The \"Baggies\" took a two-goal lead before half-time, bur Rangers fought back in the second half and on the 75th minute Marsh scored what he described as \"the defining goal of my career\" when he made a mazy run past numerous defenders before finding the net with a 25-yard shot that went in off the post. Lazarus scored QPR's third goal six minutes later to win the game 3–2. A week after the final Tottenham Hotspur manager witnessed Marsh put in a strong performance against Bournemouth and he offered to pay QPR £180,000 for Marsh and Morgan, but his offer was rejected by chairman Jim Gregory.\n\nThe 1967–68 season saw a second successive promotion as QPR reached the First Division as runners-up in the Second Division, ahead of Blackpool on goal average. Marsh was again top-scorer with 14 goals despite missing the start of the season with a broken foot. He signed a new four-year contract in the summer.\n\nRangers were unable to compete in the top-flight, and Marsh himself struggled with injury as the club suffered relegation with only 18 points to their name. He broke his foot in pre-season training for the 1968–69 campaign and missed the opening months; during this time the club struggled as Stock resigned before the season started, and he was replaced by Bill Dodgin in a caretaker capacity. By the time Marsh recovered from his injury manager Tommy Docherty's first 28-day spell in charge at Loftus Road had come and gone.\n\nIn summer 1969 Marsh was sent off in a friendly against Rangers after punching Kai Johansen in retaliation for a kick Johansen gave Marsh. In the 1969–70 season he and Barry Bridges shared 46 goals equally between them, as QPR finished in ninth position. They also reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup, which was then the club's joint-best achievement in the competition.\n\nMarsh again hit 23 goals in the 1970–71 campaign, as Rangers again finished in mid-table obscurity under the stewardship of Gordon Jago. However Marsh lost his captaincy to new signing Terry Venables.\n\nHe hit 20 goals in the 1971–72 season to finish as the club's top-scorer for the second successive season. Before the season began he signed a new contract on the understanding that he would leave the club if they could not achieve promotion by the end of the season. QPR were still in the hunt for promotion by the time that Marsh was sold – they eventually finished a few points short, however the sum offered by Manchester City was too much for the club to refuse.\n\nIn March 1972, he was signed for Manchester City by Malcolm Allison for a then-club record £200,000. City were four points clear at the top of the table when Marsh was signed, but by the end of the season they had slipped to fourth. Many pundits criticised the signing, pointing out that Marsh was a maverick player ill-suited to Allison's well-drilled set-up. He initially replaced Wyn Davies up front in a 4-4-2 formation, before playing alongside Davies, Mike Summerbee and Francis Lee in a 4-2-4 set-up.\n\nMarsh became City's top-scorer, scoring 19 goals in 1972–73. However the club entered into a decline when Allison resigned in March 1973; over the next year Johnny Hart, Tony Book and Ron Saunders all had spells as City manager. The \"Sky Blues\" finished 11th in 1972–73 and 14th in 1973–74. They did though reach the final of the League Cup in 1974, losing 2–1 to Wolverhampton Wanderers at Wembley. Marsh was so disappointed by the defeat he threw away his runners-up medal.\n\nTony Book started his second spell as City's manager in April 1974, and despite being club captain Marsh showed no respect for Book. City finished eighth in 1974–75 and 1975–76. Marsh was transfer-listed and sent to train with the reserves after chairman Peter Swales told Book the details of a private conversation the pair had held:\n\nIf you think I'm effing useless it's not going to work. Do you want to take it back?. (Book)\n\nNo chance. In fact, thinking about it more, you're not that good. (Marsh)\n\nIn the middle of 1975 Marsh played a handful of matches for Cork Hibernians for a fee of £600 a game. He later was flown to Los Angeles as a guest of Elton John, who was then chairman of the Los Angeles Aztecs in the NASL, but before he agreed to join the club he was approached by the Tampa Bay Rowdies. He was sold to the Rowdies in January 1976 for a £40,000 fee. He made two oft-quoted remarks during his transfer, stating that \"football in England had become a grey game, played on grey days by grey people\" and upon arriving in America he announced that \"Pelé is known as the black Rodney Marsh\" after the Rowdies owner said that \"Rodney Marsh is known as the white Pelé\".\n\nHe played from 1976 to 1979 in the States, leading the Rowdies to the Soccer Bowl in his final two seasons. Both times they would come up short. Marsh was a NASL All-Star every year, making the first-team in 1976 and 1978, the second team in 1977 and as an Honorable Mention in his final season. Despite this success he suffered from depression and was drinking heavily for much of his time there. Head coach Eddie Firmani resigned from the club in 1977 after becoming frustrated with Marsh's ill-discipline; he was replaced by John Boyle. Marsh stopped his drinking after his doctor told him that alcohol was destroying his liver and seriously shortening his life expectancy. Marsh left the club after being forced out in 1979. He went off in another tantrum after being substituted with ten minutes to go of his competitive career by head coach Gordon Jago. While serving as Rowdies manager for the 1986–87 AISA season, the long-retired Marsh was pressed into service once again as a player, due to a rash of injuries on the squad.\n\nHe spent the winter of the 1976–77 season on loan at Fulham, now in the Second Division, after learning that George Best would also be playing at Craven Cottage. The \"Cottagers\" were then a fashionable club where celebrities would often be in attendance and players like Marsh and Best would spend much of their free time in London nightclubs; manager Alec Stock ensured that the partying off the pitch did not hamper progress on the pitch. Stock resigned and new boss Bobby Campbell took the club as high as fourth place before a run of nine defeats in 12 games saw Fulham slide down the table. The bleak wintery conditions eventually took their toll on Best and Marsh, who both returned to the US early in 1976.\n\nMarsh made his England debut in a 1–1 draw with Switzerland at Wembley in November 1971, coming on as a substitute for Francis Lee. He won a total of nine caps, scoring one goal, which came in a 3–0 victory over Wales.\n\nIt has been reported that the England manager Alf Ramsey told him \"I'll be watching you for the first 45 minutes and if you don't work harder I'll pull you off at half time,\" to which Marsh replied: \"Crikey, Alf, at Manchester City all we get is an orange and a cup of tea.\"\n\nOften cited as a player who did not make the most of his talents, Marsh was a strong striker with great technical ability. An excellent dribbler of the ball, he was capable of producing moments of rare skill and extravagant attempts on goal, which earned him a reputation as a show-boater. His ability and the rarity which he played to his full potential earned him comparisons to George Best. He would regularly retaliate against players who used foul play to stop his runs, and picked up numerous fines from the FA for fighting back against his aggressors.\n\nHe retired after 1979, and coached the New York United in the ASL. He resigned three months into his contract when the general manager insisted that he sign five Uruguayan refugees to the club against his wishes. In 1981, he was appointed head coach and CEO of the newly created Carolina Lightnin', and quickly assembled a team around star midfielder Don Tobin. He coached the team to the Freedom Conference title in 1981, and they went on to beat his former club New York United 2–1 in the championship final. In 1982 they lost at the semi-final stage to the Oklahoma City Slickers. He then hired Bobby Moore as a coach. At the end of a disappointing 1983 campaign the league folded and Marsh returned to the Tampa Bay Rowdies as head coach in October 1983. There he gave Roy Wegerle his debut as a professional player. After the 1984 season the North American Soccer League also disbanded. The club remained however, and later joined the National Professional Soccer League. Marsh relinquished his coaching duties and remained on as CEO, and appointed Mark Lawrenson and later Malcolm Allison, Ricky Hill, David Hay and Ken Fogarty as head coaches.\n\nAfter ending his coaching career, Marsh undertook a three-year roadshow tour with George Best. He began his career in the media with Best, presenting football related videos, before he became a regular feature on television. In 1994, he spent a brief period as CEO of Queens Park Rangers.\n\nMarsh worked as a pundit for Sky Sports for many years. Whilst there he was involved in long-running banter with Bradford City and its supporters in the 1999–2000 season, in which he flippantly dismissed their chances of survival in the Premier League. He offered to shave all of his hair off if the club stayed up, and honoured his bet and had his hair removed in the centre circle of Valley Parade.\n\nHe appeared on \"Soccer Saturday\" for a total of 11 years until he was sacked in January 2005. He was fired after he joked about the 2004 Asian tsunami during a live broadcast of \"You're On Sky Sports\". He had said: \"David Beckham has turned down a move to Newcastle United because of trouble with the 'Toon Army in Asia'.\" Marsh subsequently apologised on air however this was not enough to save his job.\n\nSince then Marsh attempted to rebuild his career with appearances on reality television. He appeared in the 2007 series of ITV's \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\" where he was the fifth person to be voted off the show; Celebrity \"Come Dine with Me\" on Channel 4 in January 2009, in which he came in joint second place tied with Abi Titmuss; the first series of Celebrity Coach Trip on Channel 4 in November 2010, where he was partnered with Cheryl Baker; other notable appearances include \"Sing If You Can\" and \"Cash in the Attic\". He is currently cohost of Grumpy Pundits on Sirius Radio.\n\nHe married Jean Barry in March 1967. The pair met a few years earlier at a jazz club in Manor Park.\n\nHe and his son Jonathan founded the Marsh Group, a property development company in Tampa, Florida, in 1996. After retiring as a player Marsh continued to support Queens Park Rangers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSpecific\n\nGeneral\n"}
{"id": "1898157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898157", "title": "Vanessa Demouy", "text": "Vanessa Demouy\n\nVanessa Demouy (born 5 April 1973) is an actress and model. She began modeling at age seventeen and later crossed over into film and television.\n\nShe is primarily known for her role as Linda in a French sitcom \"Models in Paradise\" (\"Coeurs caraïbes\"). She was also the third model for Lara Croft coming after Rhona Mitra and before Nell McAndrew.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898158", "title": "Pete Vuckovich", "text": "Pete Vuckovich\n\nPeter Dennis Vuckovich \"(voo-koh-vich)\" (born October 27, 1952) is a retired Serbian-American starting pitcher in Major League Baseball who came across as an intimidating presence on the mound with his 6'4\" (1.93 m) 220 lb (100 kg) frame and horseshoe moustache. Vuckovich was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in 1974. He batted and threw right-handed.\n\nVuckovich graduated from Conemaugh Valley High School and went on to Clarion University to play baseball. Nearly thirty years to the day after the White Sox drafted Vuckovich they drafted his son, Peter Vuckovich, Jr., who also attended both Conemaugh Valley High School and Clarion University, in the 48th round of the 2004 amateur draft.\n\nVuckovich, winner of the 1982 AL Cy Young Award, is a member of the Clarion University Sports Hall of Fame. Vuckovich is also a member of both the Western PA Sports Hall of Fame and the Pennsylvania Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nVuckovich is of Serbian background.\n\nVuckovich developed a reputation for bizarre, hyper-competitive behavior during his 12 season career. He would fidget, twitch, pace, and convulse while on the mound. He was known to cross his eyes and stick his tongue out at batters. He would spit in his glove, scream at umpires while in the stretch, and sometimes step to the back of the mound and dry heave. His colorful personality made him a fan favorite.\n\nAfter minimal duty with Chicago from 1975–76, Vuckovich was selected by the Toronto Blue Jays in the 1976 MLB expansion draft. Even though the young Blue Jays lost 107 games in 1977, and although mostly used in relief, Vuckovich managed a 7-7 record with eight saves. He recorded the first shutout in Toronto franchise history, a 2-0 victory over Jim Palmer and the Orioles. He also recorded the first save in Toronto franchise history on April 7, 1977 versus the Chicago White Sox.\n\nInvolved in a multi-player trade to the St. Louis Cardinals, Vuckovich's career went to the next level. By 1978, he started more often, winning 39 games for the Cardinals during three years. He finished third in the National League in ERA with a 2.55 mark in 1978, and ranked fourth in shutouts (3) in 1980.\n\nA part of a blockbuster seven-player trade in December 1980, Vuckovich went to the Milwaukee Brewers along with Rollie Fingers and Ted Simmons.\n\nWith the Brewers, Vuckovich continued his stellar pitching. He led the American League in wins (14) and winning percentage Win-Loss % (.778) during the strike-shortened season. When Milwaukee won the AL pennant in , Vuckovich won the Cy Young Award with an 18-6 record and a 3.34 ERA, and once again tied for the league lead with the Baltimore Orioles' Jim Palmer in winning percentage Win-Loss % (.750)\n\nHe lost Game Two of the ALCS to the Angels 4-2, and started the decisive fifth game, though not figuring in the decision. In the 1982 World Series, the Cardinals beat him 6-2 in Game Three, and he got a no-decision in the final loss.\n\nThis was, however, proved to be the zenith of his career, as Vuckovich had been battling shoulder pain for two seasons, and in spring training of , it was discovered that he had torn his rotator cuff. Vuckovich skipped surgery in favor of an exercise rehabilitation. He attempted an unsuccessful comeback for three games and went 0-2 in 14 innings, then missed all of 1984. Subsequent and prolonged comeback attempts all failed, and by the end of the season, Milwaukee released Vuckovich.\n\nIn an eleven season career, Vuckovich posted a 93-69 record with 882 strikeouts and a 3.66 ERA in 1455.1 innings pitched. In postseason play, he was 1-2 with a 3.74 ERA.\n\nWhile with the Brewers, Vuckovich co-owned a bar in Milwaukee with outfielder Gorman Thomas. It was called \"Stormin' & Vuke's\", a play on their nicknames.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Vuckovich worked for three years (1989–1991) as a television announcer for the Milwaukee Brewers. Vuckovich portrayed fictional Yankees slugger Clu Haywood in the film \"Major League\".\n\nIn 1992, he was hired by the Pittsburgh Pirates as a pitching instructor. Vuckovich served as the pitching coach for the Pittsburgh Pirates for the 1997–2000 seasons. He then worked his way through the Pirates organization to the position of special assistant to the general manager with the Pirates, and held a similar post with the Seattle Mariners' organization under Jack Zduriencik, Seattle's GM from 2009–15. In 2016, Vuckovich is serving as a professional scout for the Arizona Diamondbacks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898161", "title": "The Colorado Kid", "text": "The Colorado Kid\n\nThe Colorado Kid is a mystery novel by American writer Stephen King, published by the Hard Case Crime imprint in 2005. The book was initially issued in one paperback-only edition by the specialty crime and mystery publishing house. King's next novel for Hard Case Crime was \"Joyland\", which was published in June 2013. Hard Case Crime reissued \"The Colorado Kid\" in an illustrated paperback edition in May 2019.\n\nThe third-person narrative concerns the investigation of the body of an unidentified man found on a tiny island off the coast of Maine. Lacking any identification or obvious clues, the case reaches nothing but repeated dead ends. Over a year later the man is identified, but all further important questions remain unanswered. The two-person staff of the island newspaper maintain a longstanding fascination with the case, and twenty-five years later use the mysterious tale to ply the friendship and test the investigative mettle of a post-graduate intern rookie reporter. \n\nA television series loosely inspired by \"The Colorado Kid\", titled \"Haven\", aired on Syfy from July 2010 to December 2015.\n\nOpening \"in medias res\" as the news staff of \"The Weekly Islander\" pays for lunch at a restaurant, editor Dave Bowie and founder Vince Teague test young intern Stephanie McCann's powers of deduction regarding their unorthodox tipping procedure. She impresses them by discerning that the restaurant management pools all the tips and splits them equally among the staff, while Dave and Vince want to leave an especially large tip earmarked for their waitress who has fallen on hard times. They discuss some local unsolved crimes and oddities, which have gained circulation in mainland newspapers as far away as Boston during the traditional Halloween season interest in such tales. The friendly assessment becomes more intense as the elderly island natives and Stephanie return to the office, and she asks if the veteran reporters have \"ever come across a real unexplained mystery\". Dave and Vince take turns recounting a strange incident and investigation.\n\nOn April 24, 1980, two teenagers stumbled across a man's body, early in the morning. Slumped against a trash can, and carrying no identification, the body bore no clear indicators of foul play. Cause of death was determined to be asphyxiation, as a large chunk of flesh was extracted from the victim's throat. Every potential clue leads to small revelations, but bigger mysteries. Though the investigation is lightly bungled, everything seems inexplicable, from how the fish-dinner stomach contents could line up with his ferry boat crossing, to the single Russian coin in his pocket, and the pack of cigarettes missing one cigarette when the autopsy indicated he was not a smoker.\n\nMore than a year later, thanks to a sharp-eyed rookie spotting an out-of-state cigarette tax stamp among the man's personal effects, the John Doe becomes known as The Colorado Kid. Eventually the man's identity is traced: James Cogan of Nederland, Colorado. He was a commercial artist living a normal middle-class life with his wife, last seen at a seemingly average workday before inexplicably disappearing. There was no hint of money troubles, adultery, drug addiction or mental illness -- the factors normally associated with someone leaving home so suddenly. Everyone involved with the case is at a loss as to how or why the man could have traveled over 2000 miles (3000 km) in the five hours between when he was last sighted in Colorado and first sighted in Maine, when there was at the time no direct airline flight to account for his arrival. \n\nIn the \"Weekly Islander\" offices, the three friends, old and new, ferret out all the answers they can from the facts of the 25-year-old investigation, then speculate on what might have happened, and meditate on the nature of true mysteries. Despite the lack of clear evidence, Dave and Vince hypothesize the Colorado Kid was murdered. He probably flew to Maine on a chartered jet under an uncertain but pressing emergency and carried the Colorado cigarettes as a clue to his origins should he come to harm. Though Dave and Vince shared other unsolved crimes and oddities with outsiders, they have kept the Colorado Kid a secret due to their belief that a big-town newspaper or glossy travel magazine would tell the story inaccurately by wanting to provide resolution to the account that stubbornly defied a clean culmination. They inform Stephanie that while they were \"the last people alive who know the whole thing\", having heard the tale of The Colorado Kid, \"Now there's you, Steffi.\" The warm proclamation seems to signal the young woman's final approval by the old guard of the \"Islander\".\n\n\nKing noted on his personal website on October 7, 2005 that an apparent research error regarding the rise of Seattle, Washington-based Starbucks Coffee may hold other implications, tying the book's story to the same shared universe of many of his other novels: \"The review of \"The Colorado Kid\" in today’s issue of today's \"USA Today\" mentions that there was no Starbucks in Denver in 1980. Don’t assume that’s a mistake on my part. The constant readers of the \"Dark Tower\" series may realize that is not necessarily a continuity error, but a clue.\"\n\n\"The Colorado Kid\" was originally published in 2005 as a paperback original by Hard Case Crime. In 2007, PS Publishing published the novel as a hardcover limited edition in four different states illustrated by three different artists (Edward Miller, J.K. Potter, and Glenn Chadbourne).\n\nAn audiobook of \"The Colorado Kid\" was produced by Simon & Schuster Audio, narrated by Jeffrey DeMunn.\n\nIn 2009, Universal Networks International announced the TV series \"Haven\", loosely based on the setting of the novel. The series, which had an initial 13-episode commitment, was developed by E1 Entertainment and Piller/Segan/Shepherd, producers of the \"Dead Zone\" TV series. Scott Shepherd served as showrunner, with Lloyd Segan and Shawn Piller executive producing, together with the writers of the series pilot, Sam Ernst and Jim Dunn. The series debuted on Syfy on July 9, 2010. The show ran for five seasons until December 17, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898164", "title": "Dawn (Slovakia)", "text": "Dawn (Slovakia)\n\nDawn () is a Slovak political party formed in May 2005 as a split from the Communist Party of Slovakia (KSS). It is led by . Hopta was excluded from the KSS because of personal conflicts. The party publishes a magazine called \"Dawn\" (Úsvit), which seems to be its only activity. The party's main base is the Eastern Slovak town of Humenné, where Hopta lives. \"Dawn\" is considered to be orthodox-communist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898165", "title": "Maria Bethânia", "text": "Maria Bethânia\n\nMaria Bethânia Viana Telles Veloso (; born June 18, 1946), known by her stage name Maria Bethânia, is a Brazilian singer and songwriter. Born in Santo Amaro, Bahia, she started her career in Rio de Janeiro in 1964 with the show \"Opinião\" (\"Opinion\"). Due to its popularity, with performances all over the country, and the popularity of her 1965 single \"Carcará\", the artist became a star in Brazil.\n\nBethânia is the sister of the singer-songwriter Caetano Veloso and of the writer-songwriter Mabel Velloso, as well as being aunt of the singers Belô Velloso and Jota Velloso. The singer has released 50 studio albums in 47 years of career, and is among the , having sold more than 26 million records. Bethânia was ranks in 2012, by \"Rolling Stone Brasil\" magazine, as the fifth biggest voice of Brazilian music.\n\nBethânia is the sixth out of eight children born into the family of José Telles Veloso (\"Seu Zeca\"), a government official, and Claudionor Viana Telles Veloso (\"Dona Canô\"), a housewife.\n\nThe name \"Maria Bethânia\" was chosen by her brother Caetano Veloso after the homonymous hit song written by composer Capiba and famous at the time in the voice of Nélson Gonçalves.\n\nIn her childhood, she had aspirations to become an actress. However, her mother was a musician, so music was prevalent in the Veloso household. Though Bethânia was born in Santo Amaro da Purifição, her family moved to Salvador, Bahia when she was 13. The move allowed her to experience the bohemian, intellectual circles of the city as well as to visit theaters. When she was 16, her brother Caetano Veloso invited her to sing in a film for which he was producing the soundtrack, but she refused. Nevertheless, the film's director, Álvaro Guimarães, liked her voice and invited the young musician to perform in the 1963 Nélson Rodrigues's musical \"Boca de Ouro\". This time Bethânia accepted, and for the first time in her life she went on stage to sing for an audience, opening the play performing a samba by Ataulfo Alves.\n\nThat same year, Bethãnia and her sister met singers Gilberto Gil and Gal Costa; Caetano had been invited to put on an MPB show to inaugurate the Teatro Vila Velha. The four artists got together and, in 1964, staged \"Nós, por exemplo\" (\"We, for example\").\n\nThe show was a success and was presented again twenty months later, with the participation of singer-songwriter Tom Zé. That same year, the group mounted another show called \"Nova Bossa Velha e Velha Bossa Nova\" (\"New Old Bossa and Old New Bossa\"). Still in that year, directed by Caetano and Gil, Bethânia performed another musical, this time on her own, called \"Mora na Filosofia\" (\"Lives in Philosophy\").\n\nShe began performing again with her brother, as well as Gilberto Gil, Gal Costa, and Tom Zé, at the opening of the Vila Velha Theater in the next year. During one of these performances, the bossa nova musician Nara Leão offered her an opportunity to take her place in a series of performances titled \"Opinião\".\n\nShe released her first single, a protest song called \"Carcará\", in 1965, the same year that her brother released his first recording.\nAfter releasing \"Carcará\" Bethânia returned from Rio de Janeiro, where she had gone to attend college, to Bahia. This was to only be a brief visit, as around that time she was performing at nightclubs and other venues throughout Brazil. This song also got her an offer from an RCA Records representative to record for the company. However Bethânia continually changed record labels throughout the 1970s. In 1973 Bethânia released \"Drama, Luz Da Noite\", in which she performed traditional Brazilian songs, as well as incorporating literary elements. In 1977 Bethânia went on tour and released a gold-certified album, both with the name of \"Pássaro da Manhã\". She released \"Álibi\" a year later which was also gold-certified with over a million copies sold. Around the end of the 1970s, Bethânia became more artistically conservative, moving away from the Tropicalismo music her frequent collaborators, including Caetano Veloso and Gilberto Gil, had been playing. During the 1980s and '90s Bethânia continued to record and perform, with 1993's \"As Canções Que Você Fez Para Mim\" becoming the year's most successful album in Brazil.\n\nIn 1976, she released a live album with Doces Bárbaros, a Música popular brasileira supergroup. It was recorded June 24 of that year at Anhembi Stadium in São Paulo. Its members were Gilberto Gil, Caetano Veloso, Maria Bethânia and Gal Costa, four of the biggest names in the history of the Music of Brazil. The band was the subject of a 1977 documentary directed by Jom Tob Azulay. In 1994, they performed a tribute concert to Mangueira school of samba.\n\nFrench filmmaker Georges Gachot completed a documentary film \"Musica é perfume\" about her which was worldwide distributed. In 2008 she recorded an album with the Cuban singer Omara Portuondo which was followed by a Live DVD\n\nIn 2015, her album \"Meus Quintais\" was nominated for the 16th Latin Grammy Awards in the Best MPB Album category.\n\nIn March 2011, Bethânia found herself in the midst of a controversy after receiving permission from the Ministry of Culture of Brazil to make a poetry blog budgeted for $1.3 million tax free Reais ($783,000 USD).\n\nThe financing of the project would fall under the so-called \"Lei Rouanet\" (English: \"Rouanet Law\"), which is designed as an incentive to promote Brazilian culture. The law allows companies and individuals to invest part of their income tax in cultural projects.\n\nThe singer, considered one of the greats in Brazilian music and who has a track record of working with poets and reading bits of her favorite poetry, would use the platform to interpret poetry, both of her own and from other authors, in song through a daily series of videos, 365 in total, for the blog \"O Mundo Precisa de Poesia\" (English: \"The World Needs Poetry\").\n\nMuch of the criticisms surrounds on the project's cost and the fact that a rich and well-known artist like Bethânia can rely on such a process to get sponsored, while hundreds of other minor artists cannot find ways to survive. Pablo Villaça, from the blog \"Cinema em Cena\" (\"Movie Theater at Home\") estimated that, taking out the amount that would go to the collectors, around R$1.17 million would go toward the blog's production. Each video, then, would cost about R$3,200. He stated that this cost would not be compatible with videos of 3–5 minutes length consisting of just one person reciting poetry.\n\nBlogger, journalist and filmmaker Mauricio Caleiro explained that this process, appropriated by the interests of big names and governed by the market, has suffered from great distortions over the years, favoring respected names over beginners, according to him:\n\n\"(…) the imbroglio involving the baiana singer revealed the problems of the “Rouanet Law”, a tool that, shortly after being created, played a key role in the survival of certain artistic areas during the neoliberal autumn, but as the episode in question shows, it eventually lead to serious distortions in relations between economy, ideology and cultural production.\"\n\nTo mock the whole situation, a satirical blog entitled \"Bethania: 1 million reasons for you to access\" was created by blogger Raphael Quatroci.\n\nOn March 16, the Ministry of Culture released a statement affirming the legality of the process and reiterating that the approval had strictly followed the rules. It said that \"the criteria in the CNIC (National Commission on Cultural Incentives) are technical and legal, so to reject an applicant because she/he is famous, or not, would set up obvious and untenable discrimination.\"\n\nThen, on March 27, Caetano Veloso, Bethânia's brother, came out to defend his sister, noting that other projects by many other artists, both known and unknown, were authorized to raise larger amounts.\n\nShe moved to Rio de Janeiro alone, at age 17, in 1963, where she lives today. Very discreet, she is not often seen in social events. Currently she lives alone in a residence that she bought in a neighborhood far away, close to the nature and bush, far from the bustle of Rio. The singer does not have children, and is adept to Brazilian religions of African origin, such as the Candomblés.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898170", "title": "Matthew 2:7", "text": "Matthew 2:7\n\nMatthew 2:7 is the seventh verse of the second chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The magi have informed King Herod that they had seen portents showing the birth of the King of the Jews. Herod has consulted with the leading Jewish religious figures who reported he was to be born in Bethlehem. In this verse Herod again questions the magi.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 2:7\n\nBrown notes that the phrase translated as \"enquired of them diligently\" is in Greek a single technical astrological word with no direct translation.\n\nHolding the meeting in secret shows Herod's closed and suspicious nature, however it also raises the question of how the author Matthew knows what took place. France believes the specific question about time is part of Herod's attempt to determine when the child was born, and would later lead to his timing decision for the Massacre of the Innocents.\n"}
{"id": "1898171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898171", "title": "UEFA European Championship video games", "text": "UEFA European Championship video games\n\nThe UEFA European Football Championship has its own video games licensed from European football's governing body, UEFA. Six games have been released so far, with the first game released in 1996. Originally held by Gremlin Interactive, it was then held by Electronic Arts from Euro 2000 until Euro 2012. Konami have the rights for Euro 2016.\n\n\"Euro'96\", by Gremlin Interactive was the third game to replicate the European Football Championship, and using all the hype behind the \"Football is coming home\" campaigns, the Sheffield company modified some parts in their \"Actua Soccer\" title, including the 16 teams present in the final stage with accurate rosters and stadiums, as well as Euro 96 mode, Exhibition Match, Practice Penalties, and Practice game.\n\nIt was sold for Windows, DOS, and the Sega Saturn. The Saturn version was released in Europe only in May 1996. It was the subject of considerable media hype and was a major system-seller for the Saturn in the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter Electronic Arts purchased the license, it was expected the game would be as good as \"World Cup 98\", a major hit two years before. \"Euro 2000\" uses a modified version of the \"FIFA 2000\" engine.\n\nPaul Oakenfold provided the soundtrack, with the songs:\n\nOakenfold also remixed E-Type's \"Campione 2000\" (the tournament's official theme song).\n\nThe game was a bestseller in the UK, replacing \"Gran Turismo 2\".\n\nThe game was released on PC, PlayStation 2 and Xbox on 7 May 2004. There was also going to be a version for Nintendo GameCube but it was cancelled.\n\nPlayers can choose from 51 national teams and it includes more game modes than \"UEFA Euro 2000\", such as a fantasy mode where two teams composed of hand-picked players square-off with each other, leagues and a knock-out \"home and away\" friendly match and a penalty shoot-out mode, as well as Euro 2004 qualifying, and Euro 2004 itself.\n\nThe game was released for PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, Xbox 360, and PC on 17 April 2008. It featured all 53 teams of Europe.\n\nThe game was released by EA Sports as a downloadable expansion pack for FIFA 12 on PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC on 24 April 2012. It featured all 53 teams of Europe and 8 stadiums of UEFA Euro 2012. It marks a change in EA's strategy, with all previous football games centred on either the World Cup or European Championships having been released as full-priced standalone games.\n\nThe game was released by Konami as a free DLC on \"Pro Evolution Soccer 2016\". Real Madrid and Wales player Gareth Bale features on the cover. The PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 versions were released as standalone both physically and digitally.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898177", "title": "Where the Happy People Go", "text": "Where the Happy People Go\n\nWhere the Happy People Go is the third studio album by American soul-disco group, The Trammps, released in 1976 through Atlantic Records.\n\nThe album peaked at No. 13 on the R&B albums chart. It also reached No. 50 on the \"Billboard\" 200. The album features the singles \"That's Where the Happy People Go\", which peaked at No. 12 on the Hot Soul Singles chart, No. 27 on the Billboard Hot 100, and No. 1 on the Hot Dance Club Play chart, and \"Disco Party\", which charted at No. 1 on the Hot Dance Club Play chart.\n\n\n\nAlbum\nSingles\n"}
{"id": "1898178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898178", "title": "Canadair CL-415", "text": "Canadair CL-415\n\nThe Canadair CL-415 (Superscooper, later Bombardier 415) is an amphibious aircraft built originally by Canadair and subsequently by Bombardier and Viking Aircraft. It is based on the Canadair CL-215 and is designed specifically for aerial firefighting; it can perform various other roles, such as the search and rescue and utility transport.\n\nDevelopment of the CL-415 commenced in the early 1990s, shortly after the success of the \"CL-215T\" retrofit programme had proven a viable demand for a turboprop-powered model of the original CL-215. entering production in 2003, in addition to its new engines, the aircraft featured numerous modernisation efforts and advances over the CL-215, particularly in terms of its cockpit and aerodynamics, to yield improved performance. By the time the programme's production phase had commenced, it was owned by Bombardier, who continued production up until 2015. During October 2016, the CL-415 programme was acquired by Viking Aircraft; this company intends to produce a further modernised model of the aircraft, designated as the \"CL-515\".\n\nIntroduced during 1966, the CL-215 was the first aircraft specifically designed to be a water bomber. A total of 125 aircraft were constructed prior to the final CL-215 being delivered during May 1990.\n\nDuring 1987, in response to prevailing market trends towards more efficient, powerful and reliable turboprop powerplants, Canadair undertook the task of retrofitting 17 \"CL-215\" airframes with the Pratt & Whitney Canada PW123AF engines. This engine provided a 15 percent power increase over the original piston engines, as well as enhanced reliability and safety. The retrofitted aircraft were designated \"CL-215T\". Speaking during the new model's development, company officials recognised that market demand for the CL-215T was marginal, and thus not enough to justify developing an all-new aircraft. Despite this, it featured numerous enhancements, including the addition of powered flight controls, air conditioning in the cockpit, as well as various upgraded electrical and avionics systems. The most notable external features of the CL-215T retrofit were the aerodynamic additions to the wings and empennage.\n\nHaving conducted the relatively successful CL-215T programme, the company decided to develop a further improved model of the aircraft \"CL-415\", which would take form as a new-build production series.\nOn 6 December 1993, the CL-415 conducted its maiden flight, while the first deliveries commenced during November 1994. One year later, a 180-day sales tour traversing 21 countries commenced using a CL-415 owned by the Quebec Government. That same year, Bombardier stated that it was in the planning phase of a six-point improvement plan for the CL-415, which was principally intended to diversify its capabilities.\n\nOrders for the type were promptly received from several countries, which included several lease and purchase arrangements; by July 1996, 37 examples were reportedly in service with operators in Canada, France, Italy, and Spain.\nStarting in 1998, the CL-415 was being assembled at Bombardier Aerospace's facility near North Bay/Jack Garland Airport in North Bay, Ontario, and tested on Lake Nipissing. During the 2010s, according to aerospace periodical Flight International, there was a downturn in sales of the type. A total of ninety-five CL-415s had been completed when Bombardier closed down the production line in October 2015, although the company continued to actively market the type as well as to provide support for the existing fleet beyond this date.\n\nFor several decades, Bombardier had experienced a period of significant expansion until encountering financial hardship during the 2010s, largely brought on by the very high costs involved in developing the CSeries narrow-body airliner.\nThe much smaller Viking Aircraft started off as a component manufacturing specialist, which came to include the licensed production of parts of several of Bombardier's discontinued aircraft range, helping operators to keep them in service.\nDuring 2008, Bombardier and Viking Air reached an arrangement under which the former sold the design documents and all intellectual property rights of its earlier bush planes to Viking.\n\nOn 20 June 2016, it was announced that Viking Air was in the process of purchasing the CL-415 type certificate from Bombardier, along with the older CL-215 and CL-215T models. The acquisition was finalised on 3 October. Shortly following the acquisition, Viking began work on the design of a modernised version of the aircraft, which became referred to as the \"CL-515\".\n\nDuring December 2018, a full-flight CL-415 simulator, capable of simulating water scoop and bombing operations, received European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) certification. Prior to this, pilot training had typically involved live flying of the aircraft.\n\nThe CL-415 has an updated cockpit, aerodynamics enhancements and changes to the water-release system as well, creating a modern firefighting amphibious flying boat for use in detecting and suppressing forest fires. Compared to the CL-215, the CL-415 has increased operating weight and speed, yielding improved productivity and performance. Due to the increased power of its pair of Pratt & Whitney Canada PW123AF turboprop engines, each capable of generating up to 1,775kw of thrust, these are located closer to the fuselage in comparison to the CL-215's arrangement. While this repositioning would typically reduce lateral stability on its own, this is rectified via the addition of an inverted fixed leading edge slat forward of the righthand horizontal stabiliser. Furthermore, winglets have been adopted on this model for the purpose of improving directional stability.\n\nThe aircraft can scoop up to of water from a nearby water source, mix it with a chemical foam if desired, and drop it on a fire without having to return to base to refill its tanks. The CL-415 was specifically developed to provide the capability to deliver large quantities of suppressant in quick response to fires. This is stored within large tanks which are located mostly beneath the cabin floor within the hull, although a header tank above this level is present on either side of the fuselage. The airframe is built for reliability and longevity, making extensive use of corrosion-resistant materials, predominantly treated aluminium, that facilitates its use in salt water. Accordingly to Flight International, the CL-415 has good handling on the water, being relatively easy to operate in comparison with several other amphibious aircraft.\n\nThe aircraft requires of flyable length to descend from altitude, scoop of water during a twelve-second run on the water at , then climb back to altitude. The aircraft can also pick up partial loads in smaller areas, and can turn while scooping if necessary. Management of the water bombing system is centralised via a water status panel on the flight instrumentation, giving direct control to the pilots; various dispersal patterns and sequences can be selected. A manually-operated emergency dump lever is also present, bypassing this system. Bombardier have claimed that the type performs 6.9 water drops for every flight hours of the type. The \"CL-415GR\" variant features higher operating weights, while the CL-415 multi-role model is available for purposes in a paramilitary search and rescue role and utility transport.\n\nDerived from its predecessor's nickname, the aircraft has acquired the name \"Super Scooper\" in light of its greatly enhanced performance as a water bomber and fire suppresser. In recognition of its abilities, the aircraft was awarded the \"Batefuegos de oro\" (gold fire extinguisher) by the \"Asociacion para la Promocion de Actividades Socioculturales\"; the award citation in part read \"This is the most efficient tool for the aerial combat of forest fires, key to the organization of firefighting in a large number of countries. The continuous improvements to meet the needs of forest firefighting have made these aircraft the aerial means most in demand over more than 30 years.\"\n\nBy 1999, a total of 51 orders had been secured for the type; operators have reportedly predominantly used the CL-415 for firefighting and maritime search and rescue purposes. Of the 95 built, seven had reportedly been removed from service as a result of several accidents by December 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Viking Air CL 515 is a development by Viking Air of British Columbia.\nViking anticipates that the 515 could be both more fuel efficient than the earlier planes, and have an increase in cargo capacity from .\nUnlike the 215 and 415, the 515 would have instrumentation for IFR flight.\n\nThe 515 could be a multi-mission airframe. The design's larger rear door, would be useful when used as a cargo plane, and for launching a small rescue boat, when serving in a search and rescue role. Modern scanner pods would be hung under each wing, enhancing their ability to find those lost at sea, in the search and rescue role, or to identify smugglers, unregistered fishers, or vessels leaking pollutants, in a maritime surveillance role.\nViking argued that the multiple roles of the aircraft would allow operators to get economic value from their investment outside of fire season.\n\nViking applied for innovation funding from Canada's Federal government in May 2018.\n\nAt the 2019 Paris Air Show, Viking announced that the CL-515, and other new aircraft from its product line, would be able to use Sustainable Alternative Jet Fuel (SAJF).\n\nOn 21 June 2019, the Indonesian Ministry of Defense announced it was purchasing 6 CL-515, for delivery in 2024.\n\nIn 2016/2019, there were 164 in-service CL-215 and CL-415s in 11 countries.\n\nFrom 95 that they have built 10 lost in the following accidents:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898179", "title": "Youssef Safri", "text": "Youssef Safri\n\nYoussef Safri (, born 3 January 1977) is a Moroccan former footballer who currently is an assistant coach for Raja Casablanca. Scorer of an absolute belter for Norwich against Newcastle.\n\nSafri started his youth career at Olympique de Casablanca. The following year, he was promoted to the senior squad. He was a midfielder best known for his passing and tackling ability.\n\nIn 2001, he joined Coventry City where he played until 2004, scoring once against Sheffield Wednesday. In December 2003, he had come under fire after breaking the leg of Sunderland player Colin Healy. The next season, he joined Norwich City for an initial fee of £500,000 in the summer of 2004, after the Canaries had been promoted to the Premier League.\n\nSafri became popular among the Norwich fans towards the end of the 2004–05 campaign and during the 2005–06 season following a series of impressive performances. He scored a 40-yard strike against Newcastle United in April 2005 during the team's fight against relegation from the Premiership. Safri was linked with a move to Feyenoord in the summer of 2005, but stayed at Carrow Road.\n\nAs a tribute to the player, Norwich City supporters devised a song which was sung regularly at home games, to the tune of Status Quo's 'Rocking all over the world' -\n\n\"Here we are, here we are and here we go,\nYoussef's better than Juninho,\nMoroccan all over the world!\"\n\nFollowing the 3–1 defeat at Plymouth Argyle in September 2006, Safri and teammate Dickson Etuhu were reported to have traded punches on the team bus during their return journey to East Anglia, although these reports are now thought to have been discredited. After Peter Grant was appointed Norwich manager in October 2006, Safri was not a regular selection. There was speculation that he would leave the club in January 2007, fuelled by his comments in the Eastern Daily Press on 29 December 2006 in which Safri indicated that he would seek a transfer if Grant continued to use him as a substitute. Safri remained at Carrow Road until the end of the 2006–07 season, but after falling out with manager Peter Grant, Grant stated in the press on 1 August that Safri would not play for the club again.\n\nOn 2 August 2007 he signed for Norwich's championship rivals Southampton on a two-year contract for a fee rumoured to be of the order of £250,000. On 24 October 2007 he was sent off in the 90th minute of Southampton's away defeat to Bristol City, for a heavy tackle on Lee Johnson, whose subsequent reaction to Safri pushing him by all accounts was exaggerated, resulting in a straight Red.\n\nOn 7 July 2008 he joined Qatar Sports Club, for a fee in the region of £300,000, stating his desire to move to the Persian Gulf region as the reason behind the move. \n\nSafri was a key player with the Moroccan national team during the 2004 African Nations Cup, and was a member of the national squad competing at 1997 FIFA World Youth Championship, the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney.\n\nAt the end of 2013 season he retired and started a role of assisting coach in his first club Raja Casablanca. In the following 2015/16 season, he was assistant manager of Jamal Sellami at Difaâ Hassani El Jadidi.\n\nIn May 2018, Safri returned to Raja Casablanca, again as assistant manager, this time under manager Juan Carlos Garrido. Garrido was sacked on 28 January 2019, and Safri was appointed caretaker manager. It lasted for two days, before Patrice Carteron was appointed. Safri however, left the club on 12 June 2019. In November 2019, Safri returned to Raja Casablanca.\n\nSafri is a Muslim.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898181", "title": "Channel 101 NY", "text": "Channel 101 NY\n\nChannel 101:NY, formerly known as Channel 102, is a monthly live screening of five-minute-long \"TV shows\" in New York City, created by Tony Carnevale, with the blessings of Dan Harmon and Rob Schrab. Harmon and Schrab created Channel 101, the Los Angeles-based show that inspired Channel 101:NY. \n\nChannel 101:NY launched on February 3, 2005 as Channel 102 at the Variety Underground showcase at the Parkside Lounge. For that debut screening, all pilots that were submitted which met the five-minute maximum length were accepted . Eleven were shown, and the top five became the first \"prime time\" shows of Channel 102.\n\nThe concept is identical to that of Channel 101, and follows its model of operations. Anyone can submit a pilot using a private link or DV tape. The content, genre, and style of the show are entirely open as long as the length of the show is under five minutes. From all the submissions, only a portion is screened for the live audience. \n\nBetween three and seven new pilots join the previous months' prime time of five continuing shows. At the end of the screening, all audience members fill out \"Executive Decision Ballots,\" checking off their five top shows. Only the shows with the highest five ratings will return next month with a new episode, all other shows are \"cancelled.\"\n\nThe \"Prime Time Panel\" is made up of representatives from the shows with the highest audience vote totals from the previous month's screening. At the screening (which occurs roughly every month), the audience votes (or \"renews\") its top five favorite shows. The creators of those shows continue making new episodes each month until they fall from the top five, which means they have been \"cancelled.\"\n\nAfter leaving the Parkside Louge, Channel 102 held several screenings at The Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre (NYC) from March through September 2005. In November 2005, Channel 102 moved to the 192-seat Courthouse Theater at The Anthology Film Archives. Other past venues included Pianos Bar and Tribeca Cinemas. Channel101: NY screened at The Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre at the UCBeast location at 153 E 3rd Street from 2012-2018, and most recently has screened regularly at the Spectacle Theater microcinema.\n\nIn November 2007 Kelly Kubik, Dan Harmon's former personal assistant and creative collaborator on many 101 shows, and Stephen Levinson moved to New York, Levinson replacing Will Hines as the \"showrunner\" of Channel 102. Levinson commenced several new initiatives including moving the screening from Tribeca Cinemas to Pianos' Bar, making entry free and rebranding Channel 102 as \"Channel 101:NY\" in order to draw the brands together. Ed Mundy then took control, and helped move the show to UCB East, where screenings are still held monthly.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898187", "title": "La granja (Chilean TV series)", "text": "La granja (Chilean TV series)\n\nLa granja (lit:\"The Farm\") is a Chilean reality television programme aired on Canal 13 from 4 January to 19 April 2005, coproduced with Promofilm. The series is based on the original Swedish television show \"Farmen\" and it was presented by Sergio Lagos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898191", "title": "Naghyz Ak Zhol", "text": "Naghyz Ak Zhol\n\nThe Naǵyz Ak Zhol (\"English: True Bright Path\") is a former Kazakh political party. It was founded by Bulat Abilov, Altynbek Sarsenbaev, Oraz Zhandosov, and Tulegen Zhukeyev, and held its first constituent congress on 29 April 2005. Altynbek Sarsenbaev was murdered on 12 February 2006, sparking much protest from party opposition.\n\nIts constituent congress was held on 29 April 2005. The party was formed as a split from the Ak Zhol party. Differences between the platforms of Ak Zhol and Naǵyz Ak Zhol parties are vague, if they exist at all. The split seems to be a result of personal struggles within the Ak Zhol leadership, which have effectively plagued Kazakh opposition since independence. On February 13, 2005 Ak Zhol Party co-chairman Alikhan Baimenov, cast a vote of no confidence in Altynbek Sarsenbayev, another co-chairman, alleging that Sarsenbayev had been violating the party constitution prohibiting collaboration with other political parties. Sarsenbayev had been active in the formation of the “Coordinating Council of Democratic Forces,” an alliance including the Communist Party and the Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan movement. Apparently this dispute caused the split in Ak Zhol Party.\n\nThe party's co-leaders were Bulat Abilov, Altynbek Sarsenbaev, Oraz Zhandosov, and Tulegen Zhukeyev until Sarsenbayev was murdered.\nThe appeal of Naǵyz Ak Zhol, like all other opposition parties, among the electorate is insignificant. Naǵyz Ak Zhol was denied official registration for more than a year, effectively disqualifying it from nominating a candidate for the presidential elections in December 2005. \nNaǵyz Ak Zhol, unable to nominate Altinbek Sarsenbaev as a candidate, supported the presidential candidate of the opposition coalition For a Just Kazakhstan in the December 2005 elections. On June 11, 2007 the party merged with the Nationwide Social Democratic Party of Kazakhstan led by former presidential candidate Zharmakhan Tuyakbay.\n\nAltynbek Sarsenbaev was murdered on 12 February 2006 outside Almaty. The opposition held a number of protests accusing the government for murdering Sarsenbaev because of his intimate knowledge of Kazakhgate scandal. The trial of Sarsenbaev killing was concluded with the conviction of Erzhan Utembayev, the former administrative head of Senate, and 9 others led by Rustam Ibragimov, a member of Kazakh Internal Security Forces, Aristan. According to the verdict Utembayev paid Ibragimov to kill Sarsenbaev because of the latter's derogatory remarks about him published in a newspaper. \nNagyz Ak Zhol co-leader, Bolat Abilov, has faced a number of criminal investigations which he strongly condemns as politically motivated. Charges involve “assaulting a police officer” and his business activities in 1990’s when he was the head of Butya Holding.\n"}
{"id": "1898196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898196", "title": "Type 1 heavy machine gun", "text": "Type 1 heavy machine gun\n\nIt was sometimes used as a light anti-aircraft gun during the war in the Pacific. It is essentially a smaller, lighter version of the 7.7x58mm Type 92 Heavy Machine Gun. It employs the same principles of operation, simply with scaled down components. The barrel is designed to be rapidly changed in the field, as a result the barrel cooling rings have been reduced in size. It was fed from 30-round brass feed strips.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898206", "title": "Ballinrobe", "text": "Ballinrobe\n\nBallinrobe () is a town in County Mayo in Ireland. It is located on the River Robe, which empties into Lough Mask two kilometres to the west. The population in the 2016 Census was 3,770.\n\nDating back to 1390, Ballinrobe is said to be the oldest town in Mayo. The registry of the Dominican friary of Athenry mentions the monastery \"de Roba\", an Augustinian friary whose restored ruins are one of the landmarks of the town today. The District Courtroom is housed in the old Market House, a marketing centre for local produce established in 1752.\n\nIts development into an important economic centre was due to a Royal Patent granted to the people of Ballinrobe on 6 December 1606 by King James. This allowed the town to hold fairs and markets. Obtaining a market charter was an important step in the economic development of a town and required having a spokesperson who was in the king's favour. The town became the largest and most important in the area.\n\nMarket day in Ballinrobe was Monday. Each commodity had its special place in the town. Well into the mid-1900s, turf, hay, potatoes, turnips, and cabbage were sold on Abbey Street; poultry on Glebe Street; calves on Bridge Street; and cloth, flannel, woollen socks, lace, wheat, oats, and barley outside the Market House. There were special livestock fairs held at different times of the year for pigs, cattle, and sheep. Perishable goods such as butter, meat, and bread were sold in the lower part of the Market Hall. The upper floor was used as a meeting hall. In 1698, it was the site of a Commission of Inquiry which among other things, relocated property from Catholic to Protestant landlords. In 1716, the County Assizes (Civil and Criminal Courts) were held in Ballinrobe, most likely in the Market Hall.\n\n\"Ballinrobe Chronicle\" was the local newspaper published from 1866–1903.\n\nOn 17 May 1919, the first of the Republican law courts were set up in Ballinrobe.\n\nThe first court under the direct authority of the Dail sat at Ballinrobe, on 17 May 1920 and was reported with some pride in the national press.\n\nCranmore House was built in 1838 by Alexander Clendining Lambert who was an agent of the Knox family. He leased the land on which the house was built from Colonel Charles Nesbit Knox of Castle Lack, County Mayo. It is now a ruin, having had its roof removed in 1960, and is situated at the corner of Bowgate Street and Main Street.\n\nMoore Hall was the house and estate of George Henry Moore and family, is situated six miles north of Ballinrobe. The Moores were an aristocratic Irish family who built Moore Hall between 1792 and 1795. The ruin of the house is not open to the public due to its poor condition, but, there are forest walks and fishing on Lough Carra.\n\nBunadober Mill is located off the Ballinrobe/Clonbur road (L1613 and R345) close to Cairn Daithi and is the site of a rare horizontal mill, also known locally as Moran's Mill. The surrounding area was once titled \"Bun an dTobar\" (Bottom of the Spring Wells). The water flowing here arrives by an underground river. When tested with dye, it was established its mother source was the Bulkaun River that runs through part of Ballinrobe town.\n\nThis location for a mill probably dates back many centuries, however, since 1885 it was operated, amongst others by a William Walsh. Around the 1900s John and Bridget Moran took over. Bridget continued to work the mill when John died in 1916 and when their son John took possession he built a corn drying kiln. In 1980 the mill finally closed and was taken under State protection. There is no public access at present but there are plans afoot to restore the mill to full working order by the Office of Public Works.\n\nThis rare surviving example of the horizontal mill in Ireland contained other mill machinery of significance and once powered a wide range of operations, including blacksmithing, stone and wood cutting. The area just past the mill was used in the 1800s and 1900s as a laundry for washing blankets from the two local barracks, the infantry and cavalry as the water was considered pure and clean with few impurities.\n\nIn 1704, a new law required the registration of Catholic priests. The Catholic Church was suppressed throughout Ireland. There are no records for any Catholic rites in the area before 1831, however, some priests continued to perform the rites in secret. The name of one of them is known: Fr. Duffy ministered in Ballinrobe from 1696 until 1712. He was captured and deported to Spain, where he died. There appears to have been a number of other priests between 1649 and 1875, who were associated with the Augustine Abbey.\n\nFr. Conway was appointed the first curate of Ballinrobe in 1847. He was the minister to both Ballinrobe and Partry for a number of years and was responsible for negotiating permission, with a Colonel Knox to construct St. Mary's Catholic Church on Main Street. The church was started under Fr. Conway in 1853. Subsequent curates were Fr. Hardiman and Dean Ronayne. Fr. Hardiman is credited with bringing the Mercy Order of nuns to Ballinrobe in 1851, and Dean Ronayne is credited with bringing the Christian Brothers there in 1876. The local Sisters of Mercy Convent was founded from Westport in 1851. Their mission included the education of children, visitation and care of the sick, and helping the poor.\n\nSaint Mary's Catholic Church contains eight low light windows by Harry Clarke which were commissioned by Monsignor d'Alton in the autumn of 1924. The windows depict scenes from the life of Jesus and Mary, and eight Irish Saints. Ballinrobe has one of the largest collections of Harry Clarke Stained-glass panels in St. Mary's RC Church with the first four inserted in 1924. This was followed by a further 12 panels in 1925 when Harry Clarke visited Ballinrobe to view his work. Fortunately, there are eight of his signed drawings for these windows in existence with copies in Ballinrobe. For the 150th anniversary of St. Mary’s a book give an in-depth description of the panels was published.\n\nThese windows form part of the Ballinrobe Heritage Walk which covers 30 historic sites in Ballinrobe. These are marked with bronze ground markers and a free booklet is available in the local library.\n\nIn 1839, the Union Workhouse of the Poor Law Union of Ballinrobe was founded. Ballinrobe suffered greatly during the Great Famine of 1845 to 1849. With 2,000 inmates at the height of the famine, the workhouse was so overcrowded that on 23 March 1847, \"The Mayo Constitution\" reported:\n\nIn Ballinrobe the workhouse is in the most awfully deplorable state, pestilence having attacked paupers, officers, and all. In fact, this building is one horrible charnel house, the unfortunate paupers being nearly all the victims of a fearful fever, the dying and the dead, we might say, huddled together. The master has become the victim of this dread disease; the clerks, a young man whose energies were devoted to the well-being of the union, has been added to the victims; the matron, too, is dead; and the respected, and esteemed physician has fallen before the ravages of pestilence, in his constant attendance on the diseased inmates. This is the position of the Ballinrobe house, every officer swept away, while the number of deaths among the inmates is unknown; and we forgot to add that the Roman Catholic chaplain is also dangerously ill of the same epidemic. Now the Ballinrobe board have complied with the Commissioner's orders, in admitting a houseful of paupers and in striking a new rate, which cannot be collected; while the unfortunate inmates, if they escape the awful epidemic, will survive only to be the subjects of a lingering death by starvation!\n\nNinety-six people died in just one week in April 1849. The dead were buried in unmarked, shallow graves, located just outside the boundary on the southwest of the ruins. In 1922, during the Irish Civil War, a great deal of the structure was burned, although the main portion remains to this day.\n\nIn 1935, Feliksas Vaitkus landed his plane, \"Lituanica II\", near Ballinrobe. He was the sixth person to make a successful flight over the Atlantic Ocean with a single engine, single seat airplane. Vaitkus fought terrible weather conditions and was helped considerably by hourly broadcasts from an Irish radio station. He learned that Dublin was fogged in, as well as all areas heading east as far as the Baltic Sea. He knew that he could not make it to Kaunas due to his low fuel supply, and being exhausted after a 23-hour struggle fighting the elements, he felt it was best to land somewhere in Ireland. Vaitkus spotted an open field at Ballinrobe and came down, with the airplane suffering extensive damage, but he himself suffered no injuries. \"Lituanica II\" was crated for shipment to Lithuania, where it was restored. He went to Kaunas, where he was given a hero’s welcome.\n\nBallinrobe is a market town. Its recent growth is attributable to a national construction boom and its development as a dormitory town for both Galway and Castlebar. It also has received many immigrants from the new EU member states. The 2006 census showed that more than 25% of the town's residents are from overseas.\n\nThere are numerous renovated, historic structures in and around the town. There are more protected buildings in Ballinrobe than any other town in Mayo. Genealogical records for the region (such as Church of Ireland, Roman Catholic, and civil documents; and gravestone inscription records) are held at the South Mayo Family Research Centre on Main Street.\nThere is a river walk called the Bowers Walk in Ballinrobe. It stretches for three kilometres along the River Robe, and there are plans to extend it. The original walk was constructed around 1735 and has been added to at various times since then.\n\nBallinrobe Livestock Mart is one of only two marts in County Mayo; it is held every Wednesday. Ballinrobe Musical Society puts on a show annually in the Ballinrobe Community School. The 3rd Mayo Boy Scout group is in Ballinrobe.\n\nLocal employers include McHale Farm Machinery on the Castlebar Road, Jennings Meats on the Neale Road, Cawe Suspended Ceilings on Watson's Lane, Tesco on the Claremorris Road and Cummins SuperValu and Hardware stores on New Street.\n\nThe Ballinrobe Agricultural Society hold their show usually at the end of August or early September.\n\nWilliam Brooke Joyce (24 April 1906 – 3 January 1946) Known by his nickname Lord Haw Haw. His parents were farmers from Ballinrobe and he ran a public house there for a number of years in the early 20th century. He was convicted of one count of high treason in 1945 and sentenced to death. The Court of Appeal and the House of Lords upheld his conviction. He was hanged on 3 January 1946, making him the last person to be executed for treason in the United Kingdom.\n\nCharles Boycott (1832–1897) was a British land agent whose ostracism by his community around Ballinrobe gave rise to the term \"boycott\".\n\nNoël Browne (1915–1997), the first inter-party government's minister for health, lived on Church Lane in his youth. He attended the local Christian Brothers School. Shocked by the absence of antenatal care for pregnant woman, and the resulting infant mortality rates in Ireland, he proposed free access to health care for mothers and children in a new \"mother and child scheme\".\n\nJames Cuffe (1707–1762) of Elmhall and Ballinrobe, was a landowner in County Mayo. In 1742 he succeeded his father-in-law as a member of parliament for County Mayo in the Irish House of Commons, sitting until 1760.\n\nPeter Ford (born 1962) is a former Mayo footballer and manager of the Galway GAA and Sligo GAA football teams.\n\nEdward Jennings (VC) (1820–1889) was born in Ballinrobe. He was in the Bengal Army during the Indian Mutiny when he was awarded the Victoria Cross for bravery.\n\nJohn King (1865–1938) from Currabee, Ballinrobe was a sailor in the United States Navy and one of only 19 in history to receive the Medal of Honor twice. The USS John King (DDG-3) was named in his honour.\n\nHenry Blosse Lynch (1807–1873), was born at Partry House and grew up on his family's 1,500-acre estate. He became a decorated explorer in Africa and the Middle East and was a navy commander.\n\nRory O'Neill, a drag queen who performs as \"Panti Bliss\", is from Ballinrobe. He has performed all over the world, appeared on television, hosted Alternative Miss Ireland, and runs a nightclub in Dublin called Pantibar.\n\nBallinrobe lies some 48 km north of Galway, on the N84 road which connects Galway to Castlebar. The town is awaiting a bypass. It is linked to Claremorris by the R331.\n\nA bus service running three times a day between Galway and Ballina passes through Ballinrobe and Castlebar.\n\nBallinrobe railway station was opened on 1 November 1892; it closed to passenger traffic on 1 June 1930; and it finally closed altogether on 1 January 1960. Ballinrobe was a branch line from Claremorris.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898208", "title": "Karluks", "text": "Karluks\n\nThe Karluks (also Qarluqs, Qarluks, Karluqs, , Qarluq, , \"Khallokh\", , \"Qarluq\") were a prominent nomadic Turkic tribal confederacy residing in the regions of Kara-Irtysh (Black Irtysh) and the Tarbagatai Mountains west of the Altay Mountains in Central Asia. They were also known as the Géluólù (, customary phonetic: Gelu, Gelolu, Khololo, Khorlo or Harluut). They were closely related to the Uyghurs. Karluks gave their name to the distinct Karluk group of the Turkic languages, which also includes the Uyghur, Uzbek and Ili Turki languages.\n\nKarluks were known as a coherent ethnic group with autonomous status within the Göktürk khaganate and the independent states of the Karluk yabghu, Karakhanids and Qarlughids before being absorbed in the Chagatai Khanate of the Mongol empire.\n\nThey were also called Uch-Oghuz meaning \"Three Oghuz\". Despite the similarity of names, Mahmud al-Kashgari's \"Dīwān Lughāt al-Turk\" wrote: \"Karluks is a division of nomadic Turks. They are separate from Oghuz, but they are Turkmens like Oghuz.\".\n\nNikolai Aristov noted that a tributary of the Charysh River was Kerlyk and proposed that the tribal name originated from the toponym with a Turkic meaning of \"wild Siberian millet\".\n\nPeter Golden, citing Németh, suggests that \"qarluğ/qarluq\" possibly means \"snowy\" (from Proto-Turkic *qar \"snow\"). However, Marcel Erdal critiques this as a folk etymology, as \"[i]n Old Turkic the suffix +\"lXk\", which is implied in this account, had fourfold vowel harmony, and the +\"lXk\" derivate from \"kar\" would in Old Turkic be *\"karlık\" and not \"karluk\"\".\n\nHaving noted that the majority of Chinese transcriptions 歌邏祿, 歌羅祿, 葛邏祿, 葛羅祿 and 哥邏祿 (all romanized as \"Geluolu\") are trisyllabic, while only one form 葛祿 (\"Gelu\") is disyllabic, Erdal contends that although the latter one transcribed \"Qarluq\", the former four transcribed *\"Qaraluq\", which should be the preferred reading. Thus Erdal concluded that \"the name is likely to be an exonym, formed as an \"-(O)k\" derivate from the verb \"kar-ıl-\" ‘to mingle (intr.)’ discussed in Erdal (1991: 662); it would thus have signified ‘the mingled ones’, presumably because the tribe evolved from the mingling of discrete groups,\" as already suggested by Doerfer.\n\nThe first Chinese reference to the Karluks (644) labels them with a Manichaean attribute: \"Lion Karluks\" (\"\"Shi-Geluolu\"\", \"\"shi\"\" stands for Sogdian \"lion\"). The \"lion\" () Karluks persisted up to the time of the Mongols.\n\nIn the Early Middle Age, three member tribes of the Göktürk Kaganate formed the Uch-Karluk (Three Karluks) union; initially, the union's leader bore the title Elteber, later elevated to Yabgu. After the split of the Kaganate around 600 into the Western and Eastern Kaganates, the Uch-Karluks (三姓葛邏祿), along with Chuyue (处月; later as Shatuo 沙陀), Chumi (处密), Gusu (姑蘇), and Bishi (畀失), became subordinate to the Western Turkic Khaganate. After the Göktürks' downfall, the Karluk confederation would later incorporate other Turkic tribes like the Chigils, Tuhsi, Azkishi, Türgesh, Khalajes, Čaruk, Barsqan, as well as Iranian Sogdians and West and Central Asia migrants\n\nIn 630, Ashina Helu, the Ishbara Qaghan of the Eastern Turkic Kaganate, was captured by the Chinese. His heir apparent, the \"lesser Khan\" Hubo, escaped to Altai with a major part of the people and 30,000 soldiers. He conquered the Karluks in the west, the Kyrgyz in the north, and took the title Yizhuchebi Khagan. The Karluks allied with the Tiele and their leaders the Uyghurs against the Turkic Kaganate, and participated in enthroning the victorious head of the Uyghur (Toquz Oghuz). After that, a smaller part of the Karluks joined the Uyghurs and settled in the Bogdo-Ola mountains in Mongolia, the larger part settled in the area between Altai and the eastern Tien Shan.\n\nIn 650, at the time of their submission to the Chinese, the Karluks had three tribes: Mouluo 謀落 / Moula 謀剌 (\"Bulaq\"?), Chisi 熾俟 or Pofu 婆匐 / Posuo 婆娑 / Suofu 娑匐 (\"Sebeğ\"?), and Tashili 踏實力 (\"Tashlyk\"?). On paper, the Karluk divisions received Chinese names as Chinese provinces, and their leaders received Chinese state titles. Later, the Karluks spread from the valley of the river Kerlyk along the Irtysh River in the western part of the Altay to beyond the Black Irtysh, Tarbagatai, and towards the Tien Shan.\n\nBy the year 665 The Karluk union was led by a former Uch-Karluk bey with the title Kül-Erkin, now titled \"Yabgu\" (prince), who had a powerful army. The Karluk vanguard left the Altay region and at the beginning of the 8th century reached the banks of the Amu Darya.\n\nFamed for their woven carpets in the pre-Muslim era, they were considered a vassal state by the Tang Dynasty after the final conquest of the Transoxania regions by the Chinese in 739. The Karluk rose in rebellion against the Göktürk, then the dominant tribal confederation in the region, in about 745, and established a new tribal confederation with the Uygur and Basmyl tribes. They remained in the Chinese sphere of influence and an active participant in fighting the Muslim expansion into the area, up until their split from the Tang in 751. Chinese intervention in the affairs of Western Turkestan ceased after their defeat at the Battle of Talas in 751 by the Arab general Ziyad ibn Salih. The Arabs dislodged the Karluks from Fergana.\n\nIn 766, after they overran the Turgesh in Zhetysu, the Karluk tribes formed a Khanate under the rule of a Yabgu, occupied Suyab and transferred their capital there. By that time the bulk of the tribe had left the Altai, and the supremacy in Zhetysu passed to the Karluks. Their ruler with the title Yabgu is often mentioned in the Orkhon inscriptions. In Pahlavi texts one of the Karluk rulers of Tocharistan was called Yabbu-Hakan (Yabgu-Kagan). The fall of the Western Turkic Kaganate left Zhetysu in the possession of Turkic peoples, independent of either Arabs or Chinese.\n\nIn 822 the Uyghurs sent four Karluks as tribute to Tang dynasty China.\n\nThe Karluks were hunters, nomadic herdsmen, and agriculturists. They settled in the countryside and in the cities, which were centered on trading posts along the caravan roads. The Karluks inherited a vast multi-ethnic region, whose diverse population was not much different from its rulers. Zhetysu was populated by several tribes: the Azes (mentioned in the Orkhon inscriptions) and the Tuhsi, remnants of the Türgesh; as well as the Shatuo Turks (沙陀突厥) (lit. \"Sandy Slope Turks\", i.e. \"Desert Turks\") of Western Turkic, specifically Chigil origins, and the interspersing Sogdian colonies. The southern part of Zhetysu was occupied by the Yagma people, who also held Kashgar. In the north and west lived the Kankalis. Chigils, who had joined and been a significant division of the Three-Karluks, then detached and resided around Issyk Kul.\n\nThe diverse population adhered to a spectrum of religious beliefs. The Karluks and the majority of the Turkic population professed Tengrianism, considered as shamanism and by the Christians and Muslims. Chigils were Christians of the Nestorian denomination. The majority of the Toquz Oghuz, with their khan, were Manicheans, but there were also Christians, Buddhists, and Muslims among them. The peaceful penetration of Muslim culture through commercial relations played a far more important role in their conversion than Muslim arms. The merchants were followed by missionaries of various creeds, including Nestorian Christians. Many Turkestan towns had Christian churches. The Turks held sacred the Qastek pass mountains, believing to be an abode of the deity. Each creed carried its script, resulting in a variety of used scripts, including Türkic runiform, Sogdian, Syriac, and later the Uygur. The Karluks had adopted and developed the Turkic literary language of Khoresm, established in Bukhara and Samarkand, which after Mongol conquest became known as the Chagatai language.\n\nOf all Turkic peoples, the Karluk were most open to the influence of Muslim culture. Yaqubi reported the conversion of the Karluk-yabgu to Islam under Caliph Mahdi (775–785), and by the 10th century, several towns to the east of Talas had mosques. Muslim culture had affected the general way of life of the Karluks.\n\nDuring the next three centuries, the Karluk Yabgu state occupied a key position on the choice international trade route, fighting off mostly Turkic competitors to retain their prime position. Their biggest adversaries were Kangars in the north-west and Toquz Oghuz in the south-east, with a period of Samanid raids to Zhetysu in 840–894. But even in the heyday of the Karluk Yabgu state, parts of its domains were in the hands of the Toquz Oghuz, and later under Kyrgyz and Khitan control, increasing the ethnical, religious, and political diversity.\n\nThe state of Karluk Yabgu was an association of semi-independent districts and cities, each equipped with its own militia. The biggest was the capital Suyab, which could turn out 20,000 warriors, and among other districts, the town of Beglilig (known as \"Samakna\" before Karluk rule ) had 10,000 warriors, Panjikat could turn out 8,000 warriors, Barskhan 6,000 warriors, and Yar 3,000 warriors. The titles of the petty rulers were Qutegin of the Karluk Laban clan in Karminkat, Taksin in Jil, Tabin-Barskhan in Barskhan, Turkic Yindl-Tegin and Sogdian Badan-Sangu in Beglilig. The prince of Suyab, situated north of the Chu river in the Turgesh land, was a brother of one of the Göktürk khans, but bore the Persian title Yalan-shah, i.e. \"King of Heroes\".\n\nMuslim authors describe in detail the trade route from Western Asia to China across Zhetysu, mentioning many cities. Some bore double names, both Turkic and Sogdian. They wrote about the capital cities of Balasagun, Suyab, and Kayalik, in which William of Rubruck saw three Buddhist temples in the Muslim town for the first time. The geographers also mentioned Taraz (Talas, Auliya-ata), Navekat (now Karabulak), Atbash (now Koshoy-Kurgan ruins), Issyk-kul, Barskhan, Panjikat, Akhsikat, Beglilig, Almalik, Jul, Yar, Ton, Panchul, and others.\n\nPrior to the Kirghiz-Uyghur war of 829–840, the Kirghiz lived in the upper basin of the Yenisei River. Linguistically their language, together with the Altai language, belongs to a separate Kirghiz group of the Turkic language family. At that time they had an estimated population of 250,000 and an army of 50,000. Kirghiz victory in the war brought them to the Karluk door. They captured Tuva, Altai, a part of Dzungaria, and reached Kashgar. Allied with the Karluks against the Uygurs, in the 840s the Kirghiz started the occupation of that part of Zhetysu which is their present home. Karluk independence ended around 840. They fell from dominating the tribal association to a subordinate position. The Kirghiz remained a power in Zhetysu until their destruction by the Kara-Khitans in 1124, when most of them evacuated from their center in Tuva back to the Minusinsk Depression, leaving the Karluks to predominate again in Zhetysu.\n\nThe position of the Karluk state, based on the rich Zhetysu cities, remained strong, despite the failures in wars in the beginning of the 9th century. Yabgu was enriched by profitable trade in slaves on the Syr-Darya slave markets, selling guards for the Abbasid Caliphs, and control over the transit road to China in the sector from Taraz to Issyk Kul. The Karluk position in Fergana, despite Arab attempts to expel them, became stronger.\n\nThe fall of the last Kagan with its capital in Ötüken, which dominated for three centuries, created a completely new geopolitical situation in all Central Asia. For the first time in three hundred years, the powerful center of authority that created opportunities for expansion or even existence of any state in Turkestan had finally disappeared. Henceforth, the Turkic tribes recognized only the high status of the clan that inherited the Kagan title, but never again his unifying authority. Several Muslim historians state that after the loss by the Uygurs of their power (840), the supreme authority among the Turkic tribes passed to the Karluk leaders. Connection with the Ashina clan, the ruling clan of the Turkic Kaganate, allowed the Karluk dynasty to dress their authority with legitimate attire, and, abandoning the old title Yabgu, to take on the new title of Kagan.\n\nTowards 940 the \"heathen” Yagma from the southern border seized the Chu valley and the Karluk capital Balasagun. The Yagma ruler bore the title Bogra-khan (Camel Khan), very common among Karakhanids. The Yagma quickly proceeded to take control of all Karluk lands. In the 10th and 12th centuries, the lands on both sides of the principal chain of the Tian Shan were united under the rule of the Karakhanid Ilek-khans (Khans of the Land) or simply Karakhanids (Great Khans). The Karakhanid state was divided into fiefs which soon became independent.\n\nThe Kara-Khanid Khanate was founded in the 9th century from a confederation of Karluks, Chigils, Yagmas, and other tribes. Later in the 10th century a Karakhanid Sultan Satuq Bughra Khan converted to Islam. His son Musa made Islam a state religion in 960. The empire occupied modern northern Iran and parts of Central Asia. This region remained under Karakhanid, and for varying periods it remained an independent vassal of Seljuk and Kara-Khitan. The Karakhanid khanate ended when the last ruler of its western Khanate was killed by the Khwarezmids in 1212. Both the Kara-Khitans and the Khwarezmids were later destroyed by the Mongol invasion.\n\nThe name Khāqāniyya was given to the Qarluks who inhabited Kāshghar and Bālāsāghūn, the inhabitants were not Uighur however their language has been retroactively labelled as Uighur by scholars.\n\nAt the beginning of the 10th century, a tribe related to the Mongols, the Khitans with an admixture of Mongols, founded a vast empire, stretching from the Pacific to Lake Baikal and the Tian Shan, displacing the Turkic population. The Khitan language has been classified as para-Mongolic: distantly related to the Mongolic languages of the Mongols. Reportedly, the first Gurkhan was a Manichaean.\n\nOwing to its long sway over China, the ruling dynasty, which the \"Twenty-Four Histories\" call the Liao dynasty (916–1125), was strongly influenced by Chinese culture. In 1125, a Tungusic people, the Jurchen, allied with the Southern Song, ending the domination of the Khitan. The Khitan exiles, headed by Yelü Dashi, a member of the Khitan royal family, migrated to the West. The Khitan settled in the Tarbagatai Mountains east of Zhetysu, and their number grew to 40,000 tents.\n\nAround 1130 the local Karakhanid ruler of Balasagun asked for their aid against the hostile Kankalis and Karluks. The Khitan occupied Balasaghun, expelled the weak Karakhanid ruler, and founded their own state, which stretched from the Yenisei to Taraz. They then conquered Kankali and subdued Xinjiang. In 1137 near Khujand they defeated the Transoxanian Karakhanid ruler Mahmud Khan, who then appealed to their suzerain the Seljuks for help. The Kara-Khitans, who were also invited by the Khwarazmians (then also a vassal of the Seljuks) to conquer the lands of the Seljuks as well as in response to an appeal to intervene by the Karluks who were involved in a conflict with the Karakhanids, then advanced to Samarkand. In 1141, the Seljuks under Ahmad Sanjar also arrived in Samarkand with his army, but was defeated by the Kara-Khitans in the Battle of Qatwan, after which the Kara-Khitans became dominant in Transoxania.\n\nThe western Khitan state became known under its Turkic name, the Kara-Khitan Khanate and their ruler bore the Turkic title Gurkhan \"Khan’s son-in law\". The original Uch-Karluk confederation became split between the Karakhanid state in the west and the Karakhitay state in the east, lasting until the Mongol invasion. Both in the west and east, Karluk principalities retained their autonomous status and indigenous rulers, though in Karakhitay the Karluk khan, like the ruler of Samarkand, was forced to accept the presence of a permanent representative of the Gurkhan.\n\nThe Gurkhans administered limited territories, populated in 1170 by 84,500 families under direct rule. The Gurkhan's headquarters was called Khosun-ordu (lit. \"Strong Ordu\"), or Khoto (\"House\"). The Karluk capital was Kayalik. The Karakhanids continued to rule over Transoxania and western Xinjiang. The Kara-khitans did not interfere with the religion of the people, but Islam became less dominant as the other religions took advantage of the new freedom to increase the number of their adherents. The Nestorian Patriarch Elias III (1176–1190) founded a religious metropole in Kashgar. The Karakhitay metropolitan bore the title Metropolitan of Kashghar and Navakat, showing that the see of Kashghar also controlled the southern part of Zhetysu. The oldest Nestorian tombs in the Tokmak and Pishpek cemeteries go back to the epoch of Karakhitay domination. Ata-Malik Juvayni however stressed the oppression of Muslims by Kuchlug, a son of the last Nayman khan who was ousted (towards 1204) by Mongolia by Genghis Khan. The Nayman Nestorian Christian Küchlük usurped the throne of the Kara-Khitans. In 1211, a Mongol detachment under the command of Khubilai Noyon, one of Genghis Khan's generals, appeared in the northern part of Zhetysu. Arslan-khan Karluk killed the Karakhitay governor of Kayalik and proclaimed his loyalty to Genghis Khan. The Zhetysu, together with Eastern Turkestan, voluntarily surrendered to the Mongols. Kuchlug was killed by the invading Mongols in 1218.\n\nIn the 1211 a Mongol detachment under command of Khubilai noyon, one of Genghis Khan's generals, appeared in the northern part of Zhetysu. Arslan Khan Karluk, probably the son of Arslan khan and brother of Mamdu khan, killed the Khitan governor of Kayalik and proclaimed his loyalty to Genghis Khan. The \"Collection of Annals\" records that Genghis Khan removed his title from Karluk Arslan Khan: \"Let your name be Sartaktai\", i.e. Sart, said the sovereign.\n\nAfter the absorption of the Kara-Khanid Khanate by the Chagatai Khanate, the ethnonym Karluk became rarely used. The Karluk language was the primary basis for the later lingua-franca of the Chagatai Khanate and Central Asia under the Timurid dynasty. It is therefore designated by linguists and historians as the Chagatai language, but its contemporaries, such as Timur and Babur, simply called it \"Turki\".\n\nIn the 20th century, the geopolitical Great Game among great powers demanded the creation of modern nationalities among Central Asian Turks. The ethnonym \"Karluk\" was not revived. Instead, Uzbek and Uyghur became the two major divisions among speakers of modern variants of the Chagatai language. Under these two modern nationalities, there are subgroups like the Uyghur Dolan, Aynur and several regional populations of Uzbeks. Some of the Uzbeks share more similarities with Kipchak groups like the Karakalpak and Kazakhs, or with the Iranian Tajiks, than with fellow Uzbeks who speak a descendant of the Karluk language.\n[Karluks are living in different countries outside central Asia as well, i.e. Karluks of Kashmir, and Karluk Turks of {Hazara}Haripur (Mankerai, Nartopa, Pharhari, Bayan Ahmed Ali Khan, Sarai Nehmat Khan, Shingri and lower Tanawal area, Abbottabad and Mansehra districts of Pakistan.\n\nA genetic study published in \"Nature\" in May 2018 examined the remains of two Karluk males buried at Butakty. One male carried the paternal haplogroup J2a and the maternal haplogroup A, while the other carried the maternal haplogroup F1b1e. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898209", "title": "The Source (network)", "text": "The Source (network)\n\nThe Source was a radio network operated in the 1970s and 1980s by the NBC Radio Network, with newscasts and features focusing on 18- to 34-year-olds. The network was sold, along with the rest of NBC's radio operations, to Westwood One in August 1987. The Source would last until the late 1990s as a programming source before ultimately being absorbed into Westwood One.\n\nAnnouncements from the network, voiced by legendary NBC announcer Don Pardo, continued to be heard on many radio stations across the country until Pardo's death in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "1898212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898212", "title": "Roma Democratic Social Party", "text": "Roma Democratic Social Party\n\nRoma Democratic Social Party (\"Romská demokratická sociální strana\", RDSS) is a small Czech political party founded on 22 March 2005 and led by Miroslav Tancoš. It seeks to improve the social and economic condition of the Romani.\n\nThe party was founded by head of Tancoš clan from town Nový Brod (in Česká Lípa District). At the end of July 2005 the Tancoš clan got into conflict with Gorol clan from the same town. Gorol's have their own party: \"Česko-romské občanské sdružení\" (\"Czech-Roma Civic Movement\"). Members of the clans threatened each other with liquidation and publicly displayed firearms and machetes. Reference in Czech.\n"}
{"id": "1898225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898225", "title": "Kara-Suu", "text": "Kara-Suu\n\nKara-Suu (Kyrgyz for \"black water\") is a town in Osh Region, Kyrgyzstan, in the Fergana Valley. The town is 23 km northeast of Osh and is the capital of Kara-Suu District. It is a major industrial and trade center, on the border with Uzbekistan. On the other side of the border is the town Qorasuv (or Il'ichovsk). After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Uzbek authorities destroyed the main bridge across the river, but cross-border trade continued via improvised ropeways that ferried goods and people across.\n\nThe Karasuu Bazaar in the Kyrgyz town of Kara-Suu is a highly important center of import of Chinese consumer goods into Southern Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, comparable with Dordoy Bazaar in Bishkek (which targets Northern Kyrgyzstan, Kazakh and Russian markets).\n\nKara-Suu gained international prominence following the May 2005 unrest in Uzbekistan and massacre in nearby Andijan, after which refugees streamed across the border into Kyrgyzstan.\n\nThe permanent population of Kara-Suu, according to the Population and Housing Census of 2009, was 20,862. The average age is 26.5 years.\n"}
{"id": "1898239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898239", "title": "Grave Digger (monster truck)", "text": "Grave Digger (monster truck)\n\nGrave Digger is a monster truck racing team in the Feld Entertainment Monster Jam series founded by original driver Dennis Anderson. Considered one of the most famous and recognized monster trucks of all time, Grave Digger serves as the flagship team of the Monster Jam series, with nine active Grave Digger trucks being driven by different drivers to allow a truck to appear at every Monster Jam event.\n\nGrave Digger was originally built in 1982 by Dennis Anderson as a mud bogger. This first truck was originally a red 1952 Ford pickup truck. The truck received its name when Anderson, amicably trash talking with his fellow racers, said, \"I'll take this old junk and dig you a grave with it\", a reference to the age of his old pickup in comparison to their relatively modern trucks. Anderson gained a reputation for an all-or-nothing driving style and quickly became popular at local events. At one show, a scheduled monster truck failed to show up and Anderson, who already had large tractor tires on the truck, offered to crush cars in the absence of the full-size monster. The promoter accepted and Grave Digger was an instant success as a car crusher and led Anderson to leave mud bogging and pursue monster trucks instead (although he did return to mud bogging many years later with his new mud bogging truck, King Sling). In 1984 Anderson rebuilt the truck as a true monster truck using a 1951 Ford panel van body originally sporting a silver and blue paint scheme.\n\nIn 1986 Grave Digger first received its famous black graveyard paint scheme. In 1987 and 1988 Anderson drove the truck primarily at TNT Motorsports races and became a crowd favorite for driving hard despite lacking major funding that better-known teams, like Bigfoot, had. In 1987, Anderson beat Bigfoot in Saint Paul, Minnesota on a show taped for ESPN. It was the first major victory for Grave Digger.\n\nAnderson moved to Grave Digger 2 in 1989, with a new 1950 Chevy panel van body. It was during this time that the reputation for wild passes was developed, and the popularity of the truck increased. It was also during this time that \"Bad To The Bone\" began to be used as the truck's theme song. TNT recognised his rising popularity and began promoting Grave Digger heavily, especially for races on the Tuff Trax syndicated television series. This was helped by Bigfoot not racing for points in the 1989 championship, leaving Grave Digger as the most popular truck on the tour. \n\nWhen TNT became a part of the United States Hot Rod Association in 1991, Anderson began running on the USHRA tour and debuted his first four-link truck, Grave Digger 3. Throughout the 1990s, the popularity of the truck grew and forced Anderson to hire other drivers to run other Grave Digger trucks. Grave Diggers 4, 5 and 8 were built to suit this purpose, and were never driven in any major capacity by Anderson. Anderson drove Grave Digger 7, a direct successor to 3, for most of the decade. It was replaced by Grave Digger 12, well known as the \"long wheelbase Digger\", which was also the first Grave Digger with purple in the paint job.\n\nIn 1993, Dennis Anderson and Grave Digger #7 were heavily featured on the TV series \"Monster Wars\". Anderson led the beginning of the season until breakages and disqualifications; he finished 5th. That year, Anderson won the 2nd USHRA wreck of the year title after he won and rolled over in Lebanon Valley Speedway, racing UFO. There was footage inside the cab of Anderson uttering his famous catch-saying “Yea we turned er over, she’s over, that’s what the people want, that’s what they got, I got a torn up truck!”\n\nIn late 1998, Anderson sold the Grave Digger team to Pace Motorsports (now Feld Entertainment). Anderson continued to drive, being the most visible member of the team, and remained in charge of drivers and of training team members.\n\nAnderson competed in his final event on January 14, 2017 at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida. On September 18, 2017, Dennis announced his full retirement from Monster Jam, stating however that he would still be behind the scenes and in the pits. In 2019, Anderson started driving the new King Sling 2.0 mega truck.\n\n\nThere have been a total of 41 Grave Digger monster trucks built. There are seven trucks currently competing.\n\nGrave Digger's origins, the imagery associated with the truck, and the truck's wild reputation, are all considered part of the mystique of the truck and have contributed to its continued popularity. The paint scheme, which combines green flames, letters dripping blood, a foggy graveyard scene with tombstones bearing names of competitors, a haunted house silhouetted by a full moon, and a giant skull-shaped ghost, has not strayed far from the first incarnation of the paintwork from 1986.\n\nPerhaps the most visible trademark is the red headlights which glow menacingly whenever the truck is in competition. The lights were first used when Anderson was building a transporter out of a school bus and removed the red stop lights. After realizing they would fit in the headlights of the van, he installed them and the truck has had them ever since.\n\nAnderson became known for destructive qualifying passes which entertained the crowd but on many occasions put truck out of competition for the rest of the event. With the advent of freestyle, Anderson gained a means by which he could entertain the crowd with wild stunts while also focusing on winning races. Today, Grave Digger, no matter which driver is appearing, is traditionally the last truck to freestyle at most events, providing the \"grand finale\" which caps off the show.\n\nThe immense popularity of Grave Digger has made it the flagship truck of Monster Jam, and in some cases monster trucks in general. There is much debate over whether Grave Digger has taken over the title of \"Most Popular Monster Truck\" from Bigfoot. As a result, the Grave Digger vs. Bigfoot rivalry is one of the strongest in the sport, despite the fact that the teams have not raced each other regularly since the late 1990s.\n\n\nDigger’s Dungeon, located in Poplar Branch, North Carolina, is the official home of Grave Digger. Besides the usual gift shop, there are several Grave Diggers located outside on display, including Grave Digger 1. There are also various pieces of other Grave Diggers hanging throughout the store, all of which have been damaged from various accidents.\n\nDigger’s Dungeon hosted the 2010 No Limit R/C Monster Truck World Finals, taking place from May 28-May 30. The RC World Finals is the largest RC Monster Truck event in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898252", "title": "Hey Joe", "text": "Hey Joe\n\n\"Hey Joe\" is an American song from the 1960s that has become a rock standard and has been performed in many musical styles by hundreds of different artists. The lyrics tell of a man who is on the run and planning to head to Mexico after shooting his unfaithful wife. In 1962, Billy Roberts registered \"Hey Joe\" for copyright in the United States.\n\nIn late 1965, Los Angeles garage band the Leaves recorded the earliest known commercial version of \"Hey Joe\", which was released as a single. They re-recorded the song and released it in 1966 as a follow-up single, which became a hit in the US. \nIn October 1966, Jimi Hendrix recorded \"Hey Joe\" for his first single with the Jimi Hendrix Experience. Their version became a hit in the UK.\n\nAmerican singer Tim Rose claimed that \"Hey Joe\" was a traditional song. No documentary evidence has been forthcoming to support an assertion that \"Hey Joe\" is a wholly traditional work. American musician Dino Valenti (also known as Chet Powers and other pen names) is listed as the songwriter on some early releases of the song. \n\n\"Hey Joe\" was registered for copyright in the US in 1962 by Billy Roberts, a California-based folk musician. Scottish folk singer Len Partridge has claimed that he helped write the song with Roberts when they both performed in clubs in Edinburgh in 1956. Roberts may have drawn inspiration for \"Hey Joe\" from three earlier works: his girlfriend Niela Miller's song \"Baby, Please Don’t Go to Town\" (which uses a similar chord progression based on the circle of fifths); Carl Smith's 1953 US country hit \"Hey Joe!\" (written by Boudleaux Bryant), which shared the title and the \"questioning\" format; and the early 20th century traditional ballad \"Little Sadie\", which tells of a man on the run after he has shot his wife. The lyrics to \"Little Sadie\" often locate the events in Thomasville, North Carolina, and \"down in\" Jericho, South Carolina (a large rice plantation in the lowlands); Roberts was born in South Carolina. Niela Miller's song \"Baby Don't Go to Town\" was recorded as a demo tape in 1962, but was not released until 2009 when it appeared on her LP \"Songs of Leaving\".\n\nVariations of \"Little Sadie\" have been recorded under various titles (including \"Bad Lee Brown\", \"Penitentiary Blues\", \"Cocaine Blues\", \"Whiskey Blues\") by many artists, including Clarence Ashley (1930), Johnny Cash (1960 and 1968), Slim Dusty (1961), and Bob Dylan (1970). Some versions change the southbound location from Jericho (South Carolina) to Mexico.\n\nRights to the song were administered from 1966 into the 2000s by the music publisher Third Story Music (now Third Palm Music); there the author is listed as Billy Roberts. Other sources (including singer Pat Craig) claim that Roberts assigned the rights to the song to his friend Valenti while Valenti was in jail, in order to give him some income upon release.\n\nRoberts' song gained fans in the Los Angeles music scene of the mid-1960s, which led to fast-paced recordings in 1965 and 1966 by the Leaves, the Standells, the Surfaris, Love, the Music Machine, and the Byrds, swiftly making the song a garage rock classic. Both Valenti and the Byrds' David Crosby have been reported as helping to popularize the song before it was recorded by the Leaves in December 1965.\n\nThe Leaves, who had been introduced to the song while attending performances by the Byrds (who had yet to record their own version of the song) at Ciro's in Los Angeles, recorded and released three versions of \"Hey Joe\" between 1965 and 1966. Their first version was released in November/December 1965, but sold poorly. The band's third recorded version of the song became a hit in May/June 1966, reaching No. 31 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and No. 29 on the Canadian RPM Magazine charts. The Leaves' version is notable for being the only recording of the song to reach the Top 40 of the \"Billboard\" chart.\n\nThe Surfaris recording of the song, released on the B-side of their \"So Get Out\" single, is sometimes cited as being the first rock recording of the song, but a number of reliable sources contend that the Surfaris' version dates from 1966, well after the Leaves' original 1965 version. There is some dispute over exactly when the Surfaris' recording of the song was released. Some sources list its release date as being late 1965 and other sources list it as being June 1966. However, the catalogue number of the Surfari's single is Decca 31954, which when cross-referenced with other contemporaneous Decca single releases, allows the release to be conclusively dated to a May–June 1966 time frame. A June 1966 release date is further corroborated by the discographical information on the website of the single's producer, Gary Usher.\n\nThree other Los Angeles bands recorded the song in 1966: the Standells with the title \"Hey Joe, Where You Gonna Go\", included it on their 1966 \"Dirty Water\" album; the Music Machine recorded a slow, moody, fuzz-laden version of the song in late 1966; and Love included a version on their debut album, \"Love\", recorded in January 1966 and released on Elektra Records in April. Love's Bryan MacLean was introduced to the song by David Crosby during 1965, while MacLean had been a roadie for the Byrds. Love's lead vocalist, Arthur Lee, claimed in later years that it was Love's version that turned Jimi Hendrix on to the song as well as most of the other Los Angeles acts who covered the song. Love's recording of \"Hey Joe\" features slightly different lyrics than most versions of the song; for example, the lyric \"gun in your hand\" became \"money in your hand\" in Love's version. The Byrds recording of the song also features the same altered lyrics as Love's version. Love guitarist Johnny Echols claims that Love's and the Byrds' lyrics are the authentic ones. According to Echols, the Leaves (with whom they were friends) had heard Love performing the song and asked them for the lyrics. He rewrote them to play the Leaves a \"dirty trick\", accidentally authoring the version that everybody got to know.\n\nAlso in 1966, the Chicago-based garage-punk band Shadows Of Knight released a nearly six minute long rave-up version of the song on their second LP, Back Door Men.\n\nThe Byrds included a recording of the song, titled \"Hey Joe (Where You Gonna Go)\", on their 1966 album, \"Fifth Dimension\". The lead vocalist on the Byrds' version was David Crosby, who was instrumental in bringing the song to the group and in popularizing the song within the larger L.A. music community. Crosby had wanted to record the song almost since the band first formed in 1964 but the other members of the Byrds had been unenthusiastic about the song. By the time of the recording sessions for \"Fifth Dimension\", several other bands had enjoyed success with covers of \"Hey Joe\", leaving Crosby angered by his bandmates' lack of faith in the song. Byrds' guitarist and band leader Roger McGuinn recalled in an interview that \"The reason Crosby did lead (vocal) on 'Hey Joe' was because it was \"his\" song. He didn't write it but he was responsible for finding it. He'd wanted to do it for years but we would never let him. Then both Love and the Leaves had a minor hit with it and David got so angry that we had to let him do it.\"\n\nGeneral consensus within the band and among critics was that the Byrds' version wasn't an entirely successful reading of the song and was inferior to previous recordings of the song by Love and the Leaves. In later years, both McGuinn and the band's manager, Jim Dickson, criticised Crosby's vocal performance on the song for not being powerful enough to carry the aggressive subject matter and expressed regret that the song had been included on \"Fifth Dimension\". Crosby himself later admitted that the recording of the song was an error on his part, stating \"It was a mistake, I shouldn't have done it. Everybody makes mistakes.\"\n\nThe song would go on to become a staple of the Byrds' live concert repertoire during 1966 and 1967. The band also included the song in their performance at the Monterey Pop Festival, which is included on the 2002 \"The Complete Monterey Pop Festival\" DVD box set as well as on the 1992 \"The Monterey International Pop Festival\" CD box set.\n\nFolk rock singer Tim Rose’s slower version of the song (recorded in 1966 and claimed to be Rose's arrangement of a wholly traditional song) inspired the first single by the Jimi Hendrix Experience. The ex-bassist for the Animals, Chas Chandler, who was now focusing on managing other acts, had also seen Rose performing the song at the Cafe Wha? in New York City and was looking for an artist to record a rock version of \"Hey Joe\". Chandler discovered Jimi Hendrix, who had also been playing at the Cafe Wha? in 1966 and performing an arrangement of \"Hey Joe\" inspired by Rose's rendition. Chandler decided to take Hendrix with him to England in September 1966, where he would subsequently turn the guitarist into a star. Rose re-recorded \"Hey Joe\" in the 1990s, re-titling it \"Blue Steel .44\" and again claimed the song as his own arrangement of a traditional song.\n\nSome accounts credit the slower version of the song by the British band the Creation as being the inspiration for Hendrix's version; Chandler and Hendrix saw them perform the song after Hendrix arrived in the UK, although the Creation's version was not released until after Hendrix's. It is unclear if the members of the Creation had heard Tim Rose's version.\n\nReleased in December 1966, Hendrix's version became a hit in the United Kingdom, entering the Top 10 of the UK Singles Chart in January 1967 and peaking at No. 6. The single was released in the United States on May 1, 1967 with the B-side \"51st Anniversary\", but failed to chart. Nevertheless, \"Hey Joe\" as recorded by the Jimi Hendrix Experience, with backing vocals by the Breakaways, remains the best-known version of the song and is listed as No. 201 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\". In 2000, \"Total Guitar\" magazine ranked it as the 13th greatest cover version of all time. In 2009 it was named the 22nd greatest hard rock song of all time by VH1. \"Hey Joe\" was the last song Hendrix performed at the Woodstock festival in 1969 and as such, it was also the final song of the whole festival. The song was performed after the crowd, comprising the 80,000 who had not yet left the festival, cheered for an encore.\n\nCher recorded a version of \"Hey Joe\" on Imperial Records in late 1966, which peaked at number 94 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. It was included on her 1967 album, \"With Love, Chér\". An AllMusic review noted that her version \"makes for some fun\" but was \"not so spectacular\" and \"clearly the wrong material for this great singer.\"\n\nFrench singer Johnny Hallyday covered the song in French in 1966. His version reached No. 2 in Wallonia (French-speaking Belgium).\n\nJohnny Rivers recorded \"Hey Joe\" as the first song on his Realization album in Spring of 1968. The 4:44 minute version began with \"Hey Joe, where are you going with your eyes closed.\"\n\nDeep Purple included the song as the eighth and final track on their 1968 debut album, \"Shades of Deep Purple\" and initially listed their own bandmembers as the songwriters. Deep Purple's seven and a half minute arrangement of the song includes elements of classical music, including parts from the Miller's Dance, suite no. 2, part 2 of \"El sombrero de tres picos\" ballet by Manuel de Falla, on a rhythm reminiscent of the \"Boléro\" by Maurice Ravel.\n\nMarmalade recorded a version of the song in 1968 because they needed a B-side to their single \"Lovin' Things\" in a hurry, and because they thought it was a traditional song and as such, the band would get the songwriting royalties from it. Marmalade guitarist Junior Campbell stated in interview that \"Jimi Hendrix's version had already sold about 200,000 copies and then we sold about 300,000 on the flip of 'Lovin' Thing'. But then the following year, the bloke who'd written the bloody song suddenly turned up out of the woodwork!\".\n\nFrank Zappa recorded a parody of the song, titled \"Flower Punk\", on the Mothers of Invention album \"We're Only in It for the Money\" in 1968. The song was one of several on the album that parodied the fashionable hippie lifestyle. Lyrics in Zappa's version included \"Hey Punk, where you goin' with that flower in your hand?/Well, I'm goin' up to Frisco to join a psychedelic band.\" Zappa also included the opening chord riff of \"Hey Joe\" in the song \"Honey, Don't You Want a Man Like Me?\" from his \"Zappa in New York\" album.\n\nWilson Pickett released a version of the song that reached No. 59 on the US Hot 100 in August 1969, No. 29 on the US R&B chart, No. 42 on the Canadian \"RPM\" magazine chart, and No. 16 on the UK chart. His version featured Duane Allman on guitar.\n\nIn 1970, Lee Moses he released a nine-track LP titled \"Time and Place\" (after releasing a single of the same name) which contained his version of \"Hey Joe\".\n\nPatti Smith released a cover of \"Hey Joe\" as the A-side of her first single, backed with \"Piss Factory\", in 1974. The arrangement of Smith's version is based on a recording by blues guitarist Roy Buchanan that was released the previous year (and dedicated to Hendrix). Smith's version is unique in that she includes a brief and salacious monologue about fugitive heiress Patty Hearst and her kidnapping and participation with the Symbionese Liberation Army. Smith's version portrays Hearst as Joe with a \"gun in her hand\".\n\nDead Moon, the legendary garage punk band from Portland, Oregon, recorded a version for their debut album \"In the Graveyard\". \n\nSonic Youth's song \"Hey Joni\", included on their 1988 album, \"Daydream Nation\", is titled in reference to \"Hey Joe\" and to Joni Mitchell, but it shares no lyrical themes with the Billy Roberts song.\n\nThe Who occasionally performed \"Hey Joe\" during their 1989 tour. Their version was influenced by Hendrix's arrangement and was dedicated to him.\n\nThe Offspring released a cover on their 1991 \"Baghdad\" EP. They later re-recorded a new version in 1996 for the \"Go Ahead Punk... Make My Day\" compilation.\n\nWilly DeVille recorded a mariachi version of the song that was a hit in Europe in 1992, going to No. 1 in Spain. The song was released as a single in Europe and appeared on DeVille's \"Backstreets of Desire\" album.\n\nType O Negative re-titled the song as \"Hey Pete\" (in reference to frontman Peter Steele) on their 1992 \"The Origin of the Feces\" album and changed the song's protagonist to an axe-murderer. This fit the song into a story arc spanning several of the band's own compositions.\n\nBody Count recorded a version of the song for their album \"Born Dead\" in 1994.\n\nRobert Plant released a cover of \"Hey Joe\" on Dreamland with his band Strange Sensation.\n\nThe Red Hot Chili Peppers were recorded on November 21, 2006, rehearsing the song for the Channel 4 TV program \"Live From Abbey Road\".\n\nCharlotte Gainsbourg performed the song on the soundtrack of Lars Von Trier's film \"Nymphomaniac\", in which she also starred as a character named Joe.\n\nOtis Taylor recorded two versions of the song on his well-received 2015 album \"Hey Joe Opus Red Meat\".\n1,572 guitarists played \"Hey Joe\" simultaneously in the town square of Wrocław, Poland on May 1, 2006, breaking a Guinness record. A new record was set when 1,881 guitarists played \"Hey Joe\" in Wrocław on May 1, 2007. Then on May 1, 2008, 1,951 guitarists played \"Hey Joe\" in Wrocław to set a new world record. The record was further broken in Wrocław on May 1, 2009, when 6,346 guitarists played the song in the same venue. A new record was set on May 1, 2012, when 7,273 guitarists turned out in Wrocław.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898259", "title": "Humberto Medina (dancer)", "text": "Humberto Medina (dancer)\n\nHumberto Medina Pereira is a Cuban dancer. Sometimes called the Guarachero Mayor, he created Guaracheros de Regla in 1959. He and his newly created comparsa performed that year in Regla (June 5, 1959), but the following year they were invited to perform in Central Havana. As is a tradition for many dancers in Cuba, he started his dancing career as a youngster choreographing Quinceañeras.\n\nAs leader of Guaracheros de Regla, he was recognized with a Premios Memoria Viva (Living Memorial Award) by El Consejo Nacional de Casas de Cultura (the Cuban National Council of Houses of Culture).\n"}
{"id": "1898267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898267", "title": "Cetology of Moby-Dick", "text": "Cetology of Moby-Dick\n\nThe cetology of Herman Melville's 1851 novel, Moby-Dick, is Ishmael's zoological classification of whales. Although a work of fiction, Melville included sequences of chapters concerned largely with a pseudo-objective discussion of the properties of whales. The observations, based on a list of sources in addition to Melville's own experiences in whaling in the 1840s, include observations of various species from the order of \"Cetacea\". These chapters are the most likely to be omitted in abridged versions of the novel.\n\nIshmael's observations are not a complete scientific study, even by standards of the day. Nevertheless, because of the general lack of knowledge about whales in the middle 19th century, the taxonomy in the novel provides a glimpse of the knowledge of whales by the whaling fleet and naturalists of the era. \n\nIshmael somewhat famously asserts in the novel that the whale is a \"spouting fish with a horizontal tail\". He attempts a taxonomy of whales largely based on size, based on his assertion that other characteristics, such as the existence of a hump or baleen, make the classification too confusing. Borrowing an analogy from publishing and bookbinding, he divides whales into three \"books\", called the Folio Whale (largest), Octavo Whale and the Duodecimo Whale (smaller), represented respectively by the sperm whale, the orca (which he calls the \"grampus\") and the porpoise. Each such book is then divided into \"chapters\" representing a separate species.\n\nBy the current taxonomy of \"Cetacea\", the classification in \"Moby-Dick\" is inaccurate and incomplete as well, presenting only a fraction of the nearly ninety species of Cetaceans known today. In the case of some species, in particular the blue whale (which Ishmael calls the \"sulphur-bottom whale\"), very little was known at the time. The classification is thus heavily weighted toward whales hunted for oil and other uses, and presents a picture of the common knowledge of whales at the time of the novel. Since Melville presents the study within a fictional context, voiced by a fictional character in the narrative, it is arguable whether or not Melville intended the classification as a serious scientific contribution. Moreover, Melville includes the larger members of the Cetaceans, as well as the porpoises (dolphins). It is quite possible that in the case of the Duodecimo whales (porpoises), Melville has unknowingly combined many disparate species into a single \"chapter\".\n\nThe following is the classification introduced by Ishmael in Chapter XXXII, with the spellings and alternative names mentioned by Melville. He does not introduce the Latin scientific names, however, which are provided here as a cross-reference to the modern taxonomy. The Roman numerals shown here are those used by Ishmael for each \"book\" and \"chapter\".\n\nThese are the whales of the largest size.\n\nThese are the whales of middle size. \n\nThese are the species of the smallest size, which Melville generically calls porpoises.\n\nMelville also lists \"a rabble of uncertain, fugitive half-fabulous whales\" of which he knew only by name and not experience. These were the Bottlenose Whale, Junk Whale, Pudding-Headed Whale, Cape Whale, Leading Whale, Cannon Whale, Scragg Whale, Coppered Whale, Elephant Whale, Iceberg Whale, Quog Whale, and Blue Whale. Their lack of description makes it difficult to know exactly which taxonomically correct whales these names might refer to, if any. He notes that should any of them be caught and classified they could be easily incorporated into his system.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898284", "title": "Jeeves in the Springtime", "text": "Jeeves in the Springtime\n\n\"Jeeves in the Springtime\" is a short story by P. G. Wodehouse, and features the young gentleman Bertie Wooster and his valet Jeeves. The story was published in \"The Strand Magazine\" in December 1921 in London, and in \"Cosmopolitan\" in New York that same month. The story was also included in the 1923 collection \"The Inimitable Jeeves\" as two separate chapters, \"Jeeves Exerts the Old Cerebellum\" and \"No Wedding Bells for Bingo\".\n\nIn the story, Bertie's friend Bingo Little wants to marry a waitress, and asks for help from Bertie and Jeeves to get his uncle to approve of her. Jeeves suggests a plan involving romance novels.\n\nBertie is appalled by his friend Bingo Little's new crimson tie, which is decorated with horseshoes. Bingo received it from a waitress named Mabel. It is springtime, and Bingo, who always falls in love in the spring, is in love with Mabel. He met her at a charity subscription (i.e., pay-to-attend) dance, where Bingo also happened to see Bertie's valet Jeeves.\n\nBingo depends on his uncle Mr. Mortimer Little for an allowance, and fears Mr. Little will not approve of Bingo marrying a waitress. To get married, Bingo needs his uncle's approval and also an increase in his allowance. Bingo asks Bertie to pose the problem to Jeeves, who often helps Bertie's pals. When Bertie asks Jeeves for advice, Jeeves agrees to help. He already knows about Mr. Mortimer Little because he is engaged to Mr. Little's cook, Miss Watson. This news surprises Bertie.\n\nKnowing that the elder Mr. Little is bedridden with gout, Jeeves suggests that Bingo take the opportunity to read to him. Particularly, Jeeves suggests books by the romance novelist Rosie M. Banks, which portray inter-class marriage as not only possible but noble. Bertie approves the scheme and asks Jeeves to fetch the books for Bingo.\n\nBingo's uncle is deeply moved by the books, and Bertie is confident that Jeeves's plan will succeed. Later, Bingo tells Bertie that his uncle, who has recovered from his gout, wants to have lunch with Bertie. Bingo asks Bertie to tell his uncle that Bingo wants to marry a waitress, which Bingo does not have the nerve to do himself. Though reluctant, Bertie agrees.\n\nHe has lunch with Mr. Little, who extols Bertie's accomplishments. This confuses Bertie, who has not done much. Bingo telephones to tell Bertie that, to increase Bertie's influence, Bingo told his uncle that Bertie is the author Rosie M. Banks. Bertie maintains the ruse, albeit unhappily.\n\nBertie tells Mr. Little that Bingo wants to marry a waitress, and Mr. Little, moved by the books, approves. When Bertie asks him to raise Bingo's allowance, however, Mr. Little refuses, saying it would not be fair to the woman he soon intends to marry, his cook, Miss Watson.\n\nBertie is sorry to have to tell Jeeves that the woman he was engaged to, Miss Watson, has chosen someone else. Yet Jeeves admits he had wanted to end the engagement anyway. In fact, he has another engagement of sorts with another girl, Mabel, the waitress whom Bingo had wanted to marry.\n\nReferences to international conflicts are rare in Wodehouse's stories, though a subtle reference appears in this story; Bertie asks Jeeves if there is any news in the papers, to which Jeeves replies, \"Some slight friction threatening in the Balkans, sir. Otherwise, nothing.\" This references the First World War and acknowledges the nonchalance generally exhibited by Edwardian England towards the gathering European crisis before the war broke out. Wodehouse was similarly disengaged in the face of war; according to Wodehouse scholar Robert McCrum, Wodehouse \"carried on writing about an imaginary world that seemed far more vivid to him than the reality of his own times\".\n\nThe story was illustrated by A. Wallis Mills in \"The Strand Magazine\", and by T. D. Skidmore in \"Cosmopolitan\". Separated into two parts, the story was included in the 1932 collection \"Nothing But Wodehouse\".\n\nAlong with the other short stories in the collections \"The Inimitable Jeeves\", \"Carry On, Jeeves\", and \"Very Good, Jeeves\", \"Jeeves in the Springtime\" was included in the \"Jeeves Omnibus\", published 30 October 1931 by Herbert Jenkins Ltd. The story was featured again in the second edition of the collection, which was published July 1967 and retitled \"The World of Jeeves\". The second edition included two Jeeves short stories written after the first edition was published. \n\nThe story was collected in the 1935 anthology \"The Big Book of Great Short Stories\", published by Odhams Press, and in the 1982 anthology \"Present Laughter, A Personal Anthology of Modern Humour\", published by Robson Books.\n\nThe story was adapted for an episode of \"The World of Wooster\". Though titled \"Jeeves Exerts the Old Cerebellum\", the episode was based on the full short story. It was the fourth episode of the second series and was originally broadcast in the UK on 25 January 1966.\n\nThis story was adapted in the \"Jeeves and Wooster\" episode \"Wooster with a Wife\", the sixth and final episode of the second series, which first aired in the UK on 19 May 1991. There are minor differences in plot, including:\n\nThis story, along with the rest of \"The Inimitable Jeeves\", was adapted into a radio drama in 1973 as part of the series \"What Ho! Jeeves\" starring Michael Hordern as Jeeves and Richard Briers as Bertie Wooster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898289", "title": "Bernadette Flynn", "text": "Bernadette Flynn\n\nBernadette Mary Flynn (born 1 August 1979 in Nenagh, County Tipperary, Ireland) is an Irish dancer best known for her work in \"Lord of the Dance\" and \"Feet of Flames\".\n\nFlynn was born on 1 August 1979 in Nenagh, County Tipperary, Ireland. Her parents Andy and Mary Flynn formerly owned \"Andy Flynn's\", a pub/bed & breakfast in her home town of Nenagh and subsequently became the proprietors of Flynn's Bistro located in Pearse Street in Nenagh. Bernadette has an older brother (Andrew), an older sister (Elaine) and twin sisters Catriona and Maria. Her family has always been very supportive of her dancing.\n\nAt the age of four she started at the Browne Academy of Dance, studying under Dorian Browne. Additionally, her sister Elaine tutored her in Irish dance in the early years, with classes during the week and dance competitions on the weekends. Her competitive achievements include six World titles, seven All-Ireland titles and nine Munster titles.\n\nBernadette attended St. Mary Secondary school in Ireland. She won the 1996 World Irish dancing championship shortly before going to rehearsals for the 1996 opening of Michael Flatley's Lord of the Dance in Dublin. She has no regrets about leaving her school behind, saying, \"This is what I've always wanted to do, it's a dream come true for any Irish dancer\".\n\nWhen Flynn auditioned for \"Lord of the Dance\", she was chosen to dance the lead role of Saoirse the Irish Colleen while Gillian Norris was chosen to dance the lead role of Morrighann the Temptress. Flynn is the original Saoirse and appears on both the original \"Lord of the Dance\" DVD as well as the \"Feet of Flames\" DVD.\n\nOf her role, she has said:\n\n\"I had no idea I would get a lead role. Gillian and I just went along to the auditions just hoping to get in. We both went into Lord of the Dance as backline dancers. We'd only seen Michael Flatley in Riverdance and when we had to meet, it was like 'Michael Flatley, oh my god!'\n\nAfter the auditions we went to the rehearsals and were just learning the dances and steps. At this stage, we hadn't been given a storyline. It was very, very difficult to get used to using our hands as well. One day we all had to dance using our hands, and Gillian and I began to stand out. After two weeks we stepped into our roles as good girl and bad girl and started to arrive early to rehearse and leave late. It was all unsaid for a while, but then we were told we were to take the lead roles in the Point in Dublin. We were told it could last a day, a week, a month or maybe even years!\"\nMichael Flatley has said of Flynn: \"Dancing with Bernadette is like dancing with the air, you don't have to look and see where she is. You can feel her no matter where she is on the stage.\"\n\nHer husband Damien O'Kane is also a member of the \"Lord of the Dance\" troupe and has been so since the beginning in 1996. He is one of the male leads and plays the Lord of the Dance. They were engaged in July 2003 and married on 28 December 2005. They have a daughter together named Mia Rose O'Kane.\n\nFlynn prefers show dancing to competition, because she loves the freedom she has while performing. She has broken a bone in her foot, as well as having a couple of ligament sprains.\n\nHighlights of her career include dancing at the Academy Awards in Los Angeles and for the President of Ireland during a visit to Nenagh. She can also be seen in two Olive Hurley Dance instructional videos: \"Irish dancing Step by Step\" and \"The 25th Anniversary World Championship\".\n\nIn January 2009, both Bernadette and Damien represented Ireland on the NBC hit reality TV show 'Superstars of Dance'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898292", "title": "Type 38 rifle", "text": "Type 38 rifle\n\nThe was a bolt-action rifle that supplemented the Type 99 Japanese standard infantry rifle during the Second World War. The design was adopted by the Imperial Japanese Army in 1905 (the 38th year of the Meiji period, hence \"Type 38\") and served from then until the end of 1945.\n\nThe Imperial Japanese Army introduced the Type 30 rifle in 1897. However, the weapon had numerous shortcomings, which were highlighted by combat experience in the early stages of the Russo-Japanese War. These included bursting cartridges, a poorly designed lock in which excess gunpowder tended to accumulate, burning the face of the shooter, frequent misfires, jamming, difficulty in cleaning, and cartridge extraction. Major Kijiro Nambu undertook a redesign of the Type 30, which was introduced in 1906. Nambu reduced the number of parts making up the Type 30's bolt from nine to six and at that same time simplified manufacture and disassembly of the bolt without the need for tools. A dust cover was added because of experiences in the Russo-Japanese War that left rifles inoperable from dust. The weapon was produced in several locations:\n\n\nBy 1940 more than three million Type 38s had been issued to the Imperial Japanese Army. However, shortcomings in the Type 38 design during the Second Sino-Japanese War led to the introduction of a further generation of rifles, designated the Type 99 rifle from 1939. This new rifle used the more powerful 7.7×58mm Arisaka cartridge already in use with the Type 92 heavy machine gun and the Type 97 light machine gun. However, not all units received the new weapon, and the mixture of types with incompatible cartridges led to considerable logistics issues during World War II.\n\nThe Type 38 rifle used the 6.5×50mm Arisaka cartridge. This cartridge produces little recoil when fired. However, while on par with the Norwegian and Italian 6.5mm military cartridges of the time, the 6.5×50mm was not as powerful as several others in use by other nations. The Type 38 at was the longest rifle of the war, due to the emphasis on bayonet training for the Japanese soldier of the era, whose average height was . The rifle was even longer when the Type 30 bayonet was fixed. The Type 38 was fairly heavy, at about 4.25 kg.\n\nPost-war inspection of the Type 38 by the U.S. military and the National Rifle Association found that the Type 38's receiver was the strongest bolt action of any nation's and capable of handling more powerful cartridges.\n\nNomenclature note: In the West, Japanese equipment is commonly referred to as \"Type XX\", rather than \"Model XX\". In the case of a firearm, \"Model\" is a more accurate interpretation of the SHIKI (式) character, but the word \"Type\" has become well-established by collectors for decades.\n\nIntended for use by cavalry, engineers, quartermasters and other non-frontline troops, the Type 38 carbine was introduced into service at the same time as the standard Type 38. Its barrel was , overall length , and weight . The rifle lacked a bayonet. It was produced in a number of locations:\n\nSimilar to the Type 38 carbine from the middle band back. The cavalry carbine is almost entirely different from the middle band forward with an under-folding bayonet, metal nosecap, stacking hook to the left side of the nosecap and wide front sight guards. This model was introduced in 1911. There are three variations of this rifle. Each variation based entirely on the nosecap size and the spacing of the nosecap screws. They have a unique storage compartment in the buttstock for a cleaning rod.\n\nAs with the standard Type 38, but with a rifle scope with 2.5x magnification, introduced in 1937. The scope was offset to allow loading by stripper clip and bolt handle slightly bent down. Some 14,000 were produced.\n\nIn the late 1930s to the early 1940s, an unknown number of Type 38 rifles were converted into short rifles at Nagoya Arsenal, that did all rebuilds of Type 38 and Type 44 rifles and carbines. The barrels were shortened to from the standard barrel and the stock shortened to match the barrel while the handguard retained its original length. The end result is a Type 38 which is similar in size to the Arisaka Type 99 short rifle. There is no consistency to serial numbers or arsenal marks as the rifles were converted from existing stock. Although total production is unknown, it is estimated that approximately 100,000 were converted.\n\nChinese copy of the Japanese Type 38 at the Taiyuan Arsenal in the very late 1920s to early 1930s for the warlord of Shansi province, General Yen Hsi-shan. The receiver is marked 六五步槍 or \"six-five rifle\". Estimated to have been 108,000 made.\n\nThese copies of the Type 38 rifles are believed to have been manufactured at the South Manchuria Army Arsenal (also known as the 918 Arsenal), but very little is known about them. Chinese sources state that these rifles were made in China for Japan, but for whom it is not known. It does not bear the Japanese Imperial Chrysanthemum, but instead has a heart symbol and under it written \"918 Type\" (九一八式). It is also not known if these were made before or right after the surrender of Japanese forces. It has an under-folding bayonet similar to the Japanese Type 44. The \"918\" stamped on top of the receivers stands for the date of September 18, 1931; the date of the Mukden Incident.\n\nA relatively crude copy of the Type 38 carbine that is believed to have been made mostly in the Chinese city of Tientsin and may have been intended for puppet troops. Unlike the other Type 19 that is a copy of the Type 30 carbine, but in 7.92×57mm Mauser, this Type 19 is chambered in the Japanese 6.5x50sr cartridge. Like the other Type 19, it also has a cherry blossom on the receiver and not the Japanese Imperial Chrysanthemum and also says \"North China Type 19\" (北支一九式). The \"19\" may mean the 19th year of Showa Era or 1944. The true military designation is unknown. Approximately 40,000 carbines are thought to have been produced.\n\nSiam (Thailand) ordered 50,000 Type 38 rifles in 1924 from the Tokyo Army Arsenal chambered in their Type 66 8x52r cartridge. The receiver is marked with the Siamese Charkra with \"Type 66\" (แบบ ๖๖) written under it. Not only was the caliber changed, but the sights, bayonet and cleaning rod are different than the Japanese version. Almost all parts, including screws cannot be interchanged with the Japanese Type 38.\n\nUnlike the Siamese Type 66 (แบบ ๖๖), this rifle is a standard Japanese Type 38 in 6.5x50sr that was sent as aid from Japan to Thailand in 1940. These were taken straight from assembly lines at Nagoya and Kokura arsenals, after the Japanese Imperial Chrysanthemum was canceled out by zeros along the petals. In Thailand they called it the Type 83 (แบบ ๘๓). These rifles were issued to second-line troops to free up rifles in their main caliber from front line duties for the Franco-Thai War. Later in the 1950s, some of these rifles had their barrels and stocks cut down to short rifle length with many of those being rechambered for .30-06 Type 88 cartridge and becoming Type Type 83/88s (แบบ ๘๓/๘๘). Very few of these rifles were imported into the United States because of the Gun Control Act of 1968 restricting former military arms from entering the country.\n\nMade after World War II, these carbines were made in Thailand at the Royal Thai Arsenals in Bangkok from Type 38 parts for a handy carbine for police. The stock and barrel was cut down. The stocks were cut out like a M1 carbine stock and used M1 carbine slings and oilers. Some bolts were turned down, some not. Some had the Royal Thai Police symbol stamped on the receiver with \"91\" (๙๑) stamped above it and some received the Siamese Charkra stamped on the receiver. They all retained their original Japanese caliber of 6.5x50sr.\n\nOrdered in mid 1913 from the Huerta government in the standard Mexican military caliber, 7×57mm Mauser, for 50,000 rifles and later for another 25,000 carbines from the Tokyo Artillery Arsenal. They were made to fit the Mexican Mauser model 1895, 1902 or 1910 bayonets. In early 1914 the first 10,000-15,000 rifles arrived in Mexico, but the Japanese suspended, probably because Huerta had fled the country in mid-1914 and feared they would not be paid for the rest. In late 1914 or early 1915 Imperial Russia, desperate for arms, bought the remainder left in Japan which was either 35,400 or 60,000 rifles and carbines. The first few thousand rifles had three interlocking circles on the receiver, the rest had the Mexican crest under \"Republica Mexicana\".\n\nEstonian conversion of standard Type 38 to .303 British cartridge, intended for usage by second line troops of the Estonian Defence League. Total 24,000 rifles were rebored during 1929-1934.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898298", "title": "Padre Coraje", "text": "Padre Coraje\n\nPadre Coraje (English: \"Brave Father John\") is a Spanish language television drama from Argentina. Its theme song is performed by Paz Martinez.\n\nWhen Coraje, a young idealist, sets out on a journey to La Cruz, his life is forever changed. Coraje and his friends come across Father John, a priest who has been assaulted by thieves while on his way to take over the parish at a church in La Cruz. Unable to save Father John's life, Coraje decides to pose as the priest. Coraje soon meets Ana and Clara Guericco, whose highly respected father was recently assassinated. Coraje soon finds himself entangled in a web of passion and secret desires. He is caught in a love triangle with the Guericco sisters. Coraje loves the Clara, and the wheelchair-using Ana cannot hide her desire for the priest. Deceit and treachery also drive the plot as the mystery of Guericco's death waits to be solved.\n"}
{"id": "1898300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898300", "title": "Dennis H. Holtschneider", "text": "Dennis H. Holtschneider\n\nDennis Henry Holtschneider (born January 14, 1962) is President of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities.\n\nPreviously, he was the Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer for Ascension Health, serving from July 2017 through June 2019. Prior to this, he served as president of DePaul University in Chicago, United States, serving from July 2004 through June 2017.\n\nA native of Detroit, Michigan, he is a 1985 graduate of Niagara University with a bachelor's degree in Mathematics. He is a member of the Congregation of the Mission, an order of Catholic priests founded by St. Vincent de Paul and commonly referred to as Vincentians. He received a doctorate in Higher Education Administration from Harvard University in 1997.\n\nHoltschneider served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Niagara University from 2000-04. He taught and served in several academic administrative roles at St. John's University between 1996 and 1999.\n\nHoltschneider was the Director/Rector of Vincentian College Seminary in Ozone Park, New York from 1989 to 1992. Since 2008, he has been a faculty member in the Harvard Graduate School of Education, teaching seminars and institutes on strategy, governance and management development, among others. He taught summer institutes on strategic planning at the Villanova University Center for the Study of Church Management from 2006-10. He served also as Clinical Associate Professor of Higher Education in the Graduate School of Education at the University at Buffalo.\n\nHoltschneider has served in leadership roles on several national advocacy boards for higher education. He joined the American Council on Education’s Board of Directors in 2013, was a trustee for the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in 2012-13, and was a trustee for the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities from 2009 to 2015, including serving as chair of that board from 2010-2012. He spent five years as a member of the school board for Chicago Catholic Schools (2009-14) and nine years as a trustee of the Chicago History Museum (2007-2016).\n\nHoltschneider holds seven honorary degrees, the most recent of which was awarded in December 2016 from Soka University in Tokyo. In 2015, he received the American Council on Education’s Council of Fellows Mentor Award, recognizing his guidance in preparing the next generation of academic leaders in higher education.\n\nIn 2012, he was noted as one of \"Diversity MBA Magazine\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> \"Top 100 under 50 Diverse Executive Leaders\". In 2011, he was honored by the Archdiocese of Chicago with its \"Strangers No Longer Award\" for his leadership on comprehensive immigration reform.\n\nHoltschneider has conducted research and written extensively on higher education strategy and governance.\n\n\"Trusteeship Magazine\" published his article, \"Strategic Capacity: Strengthening University Boards to Govern Strategy\" in its November/December 2016 issue. His chapter on \"Raising Academic Quality: A Playbook\", appeared in Strategies for University Management in 2016. His chapter \"Strategy\" appeared in the 2015-16 Presidential Perspectives Higher Education Thought Leadership Series Innovative Concepts to Achieve Campus Transformation.\n"}
{"id": "1898303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898303", "title": "Ed Bacon", "text": "Ed Bacon\n\nEd Bacon may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898305", "title": "Type 44 carbine", "text": "Type 44 carbine\n\nThe is a Japanese bolt-action rifle. This rifle is also often referred to as a Type 44 Carbine.\n\nThe Type 44 is sometimes confused with the Type 38 carbine, since they were developed based on the Type 38.\n\nThe Type 44 entered production in 1911 and entered service in 1912 (the 44th year of the Meiji period, hence \"Type 44\"), and served on until the end of the Second World War in 1945, production of the rifle ran until three years prior to the end of the Second World War; 1942. Approximately 91,900 Type 44 rifles were produced by Japanese arsenals during these years.\n\nAlthough it was intended for cavalry troops, many other units such as transportation units were issued these carbines and some cavalry troops continued to use the Type 38 carbine.\n\nA Type 44 was donated to Australia to the Australian War Memorial to show standard weapons/equipment of a Japanese soldier after World War One.\n\nAfter the war, the Type 44 continued to be used by the Chinese People's Liberation Army and Navy. Many of them were seen in the Chinese Civil War and in the Korean War.\n\nModern day clones made as air guns are currently made in Japan by Tanaka Works.\n\nDeveloped from the Type 38 carbine to provide a cavalryman a carbine with a bayonet and not be encumbered with weapons as before the trooper was required to have a Type 32 cavalry saber, a Type 38 carbine and a bayonet., the main difference being the bayonet is a needle type and it can be folded backwards and locks underneath the barrel. \n\nA hook was located directly below the front sight on the right side of the rifle, replicating the hooked quillon of the Type 30 bayonet for use in the bayonet fencing techniques taught to Japanese soldiers of the period.\n\nThe Type 44 also included a compartment in the buttstock for which to store a unique two-piece cleaning rod. The cleaning rod storage compartment was accessed via an ingenious rotating door. It fired the 6.5×50mm Arisaka round, and capacity was an internal five-round box magazine, it was fed via five-round chargers.\n\nThe Type 44 was briefly used to experiment on using the 7.7×58mm Arisaka before it was dropped due to problems regarding recoil.\n\nThe Type 44 was produced in three variations (referred to as First, Second, and Third variations).\n\nThe major differences between variations was in the folding bayonet housing, which increased the length and durability with each variation. The changes to the bayonet housing was because of accuracy issues and to strengthen the stock. A minor difference between variations may be found in the cleaning rod compartment found beneath the buttplate. \n\nFirst variation stocks had two holes drilled for each half of the cleaning rod, while second and third variations had a single larger hole to house both halves of the cleaning rod.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898307", "title": "Bougainville Independence Movement", "text": "Bougainville Independence Movement\n\nBougainville Independence Movement (BIM) was a political party in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, of eastern Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe party's creation was announced on 6 April 2005 by James Tanis, who invited rebel leader Francis Ona to lead the group. Tanis had been the Bougainville Peace Minister and vice-president of the Bougainville People's Congress. Tanis stated he wanted the party to represent the \"independence aspirations of the Bougainville people\". He finished third in the presidential election, behind Joseph Kabui and John Momis.\n\nTanis won the 2008 presidential by-election following Kabui's death, serving under the BIM banner. He was defeated at the 2010 election. Tanis subsequently worked for the government as a senior public servant, and the party did not contest the 2015 election.\n\nIn the 2019 Bougainvillean independence referendum, 98% of the voters supported independence.\n"}
{"id": "1898308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898308", "title": "Bendahara", "text": "Bendahara\n\nBendahara (Jawi: بنداهارا) is an administrative position within classical Malay kingdoms comparable to a vizier before the intervention of European powers during the 19th century. A bendahara was appointed by a sultan and was a hereditary post. The bendahara and the sultan shared the same lineage.\n\nThe closest post which is comparable to the post of the vizier as the Malay kingdoms are Islamic kingdoms. As the bendahara is the head of the nobility, the status confers certain responsibility. The bendahara is the backbone of the Malay Sultanate. For the ancient kingdoms of Malacca and Johor, there were many tasks and responsibilities but the primary ones were:\n\n\nLegitimacy of the Sultan lies with the bendahara. The bendahara always consulted the other nobles before arriving at a decision. The bendahara and nobles do this for the well-being of the subjects and is essential if there are problems in the state. These tasks are more extensive than any vizier or the modern prime minister.\n\nThe involvement of the British and the Dutch in the administration of the Malay States and the subsequent independence of Malaysia and Indonesia has reduced the Bendahara to a symbolic title only.\n\nThough it is unclear when the title was first used, the Sultanate of Malacca had several influential bendaharas. The most famous is Tun Perak. Under Tun Perak's service which spanned several sultans, Malacca reached its height in the late 15th century. According to the \"Malay Annals\" and the \"Hikayat Hang Tuah\", the bendahara secretly saved the life of Hang Tuah, a laksamana the sultan had ordered killed.\n\nIn 1612, Bendahara Tun Sri Lanang of the Sultanate of Johor was commissioned by Sultan Alauddin Riaayat Shah of Johor to compile Malay history and record it into a book. The book was known as Sulalatus Salatin and later known as Sejarah Melayu, an important literary piece in Malay language history. In 1699, Bendahara Abdul Jalil became Sultan Abdul Jalil IV of Johor after the previous sultan, Mahmud Shah II was murdered, leaving no heir behind. After the rule of Sultan Abdul Jalil IV, the bendahara was awarded Pahang as his personal fief. Bendahara Tun Abbas and his descendants ruled Pahang continuously until Tun Mutahir, who was deposed in a civil war in 1863.\n\nThe current Terengganu sultanate was founded by Sultan Zainal Abidin I of Terengganu in 1708. He was the son of Tun Habib Abdul Majid, a 17th-century \"bendahara\" of Johor.\n\n\nAfter the fall of Malacca to the Portuguese, the Malacca Sultanate was succeeded by the Johore Sultanate.\n\n\nThe following Bendaharas were sidelined by the palace following the rise of Laksamana Paduka Tuan:\n\n\nAfter the succession of Sultan Abdul Jalil IV in Johor, the Bendahara were granted Pahang as a personal fief. Thereafter the Bendahara of Johor were known as the Bendahara in Pahang. They are also known as \"Raja Bendahara\" for their status as the rulers of Pahang as a vassal state of the Johore Sultanate.\n\n\nIn modern times of Malaysia, it is typical to render the position as prime minister. Though a bendahara's duties are similar to that of a prime minister's, the two terms are not interchangeable. One clear difference is the amount of power held by the two positions. In ancient times, the bendahara was typically the highest-ranking official after the sultan but the sultan retained ultimate authority. The sultan was not answerable to the bendahara, or to anyone else for that matter. The sultan was not just a constitutional monarchy like the Yang di-Pertuan Agong in contemporary Malaysia where the Prime Minister holds effective political power.\n\nCurrent titles used:\nIn Brunei, the term of Bendahara is still used where it is known as \"Pengiran Bendahara Seri Maharaja Permaisuara Brunei\".\n\nIn Indonesia, a treasurer is commonly referred as Bendahara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898309", "title": "Wheel tractor-scraper", "text": "Wheel tractor-scraper\n\nIn civil engineering, a wheel tractor-scraper is a piece of heavy equipment used for earthmoving.\nThe rear part of the scraper has a vertically moveable hopper with a sharp horizontal front edge which can be raised or lowered. The front edge cuts into the soil, like a carpenter's plane cutting wood, and fills the hopper. When the hopper is full it is raised, closed, and the scraper can transport its load to the fill area where it is dumped. With a type called an 'elevating scraper' a conveyor belt moves material from the cutting edge into the hopper.\n\nThe scraper is a large piece of equipment which is used in mining, construction, agriculture and other earthmoving applications. The rear part has a vertically moveable hopper (also known as the bowl) with a sharp horizontal front edge. The hopper can be hydraulically lowered and raised. When the hopper is lowered, the front edge cuts into the soil or clay like a plane and fills the hopper. When the hopper is full ( heaped, depending on type) it is raised, and closed with a vertical blade (known as the apron). The scraper can transport its load to the fill area where the blade is raised, the back panel of the hopper, or the ejector, is hydraulically pushed forward and the load tumbles out. Then the empty scraper returns to the cut site and repeats the cycle.\nOn the 'elevating scraper' the bowl is filled by a type of conveyor arrangement fitted with a horizontal flights to move the material engaged by the cutting edge into the bowl as the machine moves forward. Elevating scrapers do not require assistance from push-tractors. The pioneer developer of the elevating scraper was Hancock Manufacturing Company of Lubbock, Texas USA. Self-propelled scrapers were invented by R. G. LeTourneau in the 1930s. His company called them Tournahoppers. This concept was further developed by LeTourneau Westinghouse Company. Most current scrapers have two axles, although historically tri-axle configurations were dominant.\n\nScrapers can be very efficient on short hauls where the cut and fill areas are close together and have sufficient length to fill the hopper. The heavier scraper types have two engines (\"tandem powered\"), one driving the front wheels, one driving the rear wheels, with engines up to . Multiple scrapers can work together in a push-pull fashion but this requires a long cut area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898321", "title": "Scraper (archaeology)", "text": "Scraper (archaeology)\n\nIn prehistoric archaeology, scrapers are unifacial tools thought to have been used for hideworking and woodworking. Many lithic analysts maintain that the only true scrapers are defined on the base of use-wear, and usually are those that were worked on the distal ends of blades—i.e., \"end scrapers\" (). Other scrapers include the so-called \"side scrapers\" or racloirs, which are made on the longest side of a flake, and notched scrapers, which have a cleft on either side that may have been used to attach them to something else.\n\nScrapers are typically formed by chipping the end of a flake of stone in order to create one sharp side and to keep the rest of the sides dull to facilitate grasping it. Most scrapers are either circle or blade-like in shape. The working edges of scrapers tend to be convex, and many have trimmed and dulled lateral edges to facilitate hafting. One important variety of scraper is the thumbnail scraper, a scraper shaped much like its namesake. This scraper type is common at Paleo-Indian sites in North America. Scrapers are one of the most varied lithic tools found at archaeological sites. Due to the vast array of scrapers there are many typologies that scrapers can fall under, including tool size, tool shape, tool base, the number of working edges, edge angle, edge shape, and many more.\n\nThe edge of the scraper that is extremely angled is the working edge. This edge is often used to soften hides or to clean meat off of the hides, in addition to being used for wood work. As the term scraper suggests, this tool was scraped at the hide or wood in order to reach the end goal. Scrapers were also made in order to skin animals.\n\nScrapers tended to be large enough to fit comfortably in the hand and could be used without being mounted on wood or bone. However, it is very likely that scrapers were mounted on short handles even though it is very rare to find mounted scrapers. As scrapers are used they have to be resharpened in order to stay effective. This causes them to get progressively smaller as they are used, resharpened, used, resharpened, and used again. Consequently, the majority of the scrapers that are found on sites are ones that have been resharpened and used to the point of being no longer functional.\n\nThe two main classifications of scrapers are either end scrapers or side scrapers. End scrapers have working edges on one or both ends of a blade or flake, whereas side scrapers have a working edge along one of the long sides. There are a couple of types of scrapers based on their specific use when it comes to wood and hide or based on the shape and design of the scraper itself. \nThe grattoir is a type of scraper made usually made of flint and its main uses were to work wood and to clean hides. This type of scraper has its working edge along the long axis of the blade.\nThe nose scraper typically has a smaller working edge either at both ends or just one end. This type of scraper is made from a convex blade and is used in more fine tuning work.\nThe hollow scraper is a type of scraper that has a notch worked into the side or end of the scraper.\n\nTool size: This can be determined by either weight or dimensions and typically divided into either large or small scrapers.\nTool shape: There are many different shapes scrapers can be, including rectangular, triangular, irregular, discoidal, domed, or keeled. In many cases it can be hard to determine the classification for the shape of the scraper. The shape of the scraper is often considered diagnostic. \nShaping vs. Use Damage: Scrapers are often divided between ones that have been purposefully shaped for a specific use and ones that have been shaped due to their use. \nTool base: Scrapers are classified based on if they originated from a blade or a flake.\nNumber of working edges: Some scrapers have only one working edge while other scrapers have 2 working edges. It is extremely uncommon for there to be a scraper with three working edges. \nEdge angle: Some scrapers have vertical working edges while other scrapers have acute working edges.\nEdge shape: There is distinction between concave, straight, and convex working edges on scrapers. \nLocation of functional edges: One of the main distinctions in scrapers, depends on if the working edge is on the end or the side of the scraper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898330", "title": "Bougainville Labour Party", "text": "Bougainville Labour Party\n\nBougainville Labour Party (BLP) is a political party in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, Papua New Guinea.\n\nIt was established ahead of the inaugural 2005 election by lawyer Thomas Tamusio and philosopher Albert Toro. The party endorsed Bougainville People's Congress candidate Joseph Kabui for the presidency, with party president Peter Nerau opting to contest the Baubake constituency in the Bougainville House of Representatives. It was reported in July 2014 that New Bougainville Party MP John Ken would relaunch and lead the party into the 2015 election, but this did not occur. Nick F. Peniai was the party's unsuccessful candidate for the Bougainville presidency at the 2015 election.\n"}
{"id": "1898335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898335", "title": "List of railroad lines in Massachusetts", "text": "List of railroad lines in Massachusetts\n\nThis is a list of all freight railroad (not streetcar or rapid transit) lines that have been built in Massachusetts, and does not deal with ownership changes from one company to another. The lines are named by the first company to build or consolidate them.\n\nThese railroads were owned by or closely related to the Boston and Albany Railroad, later part of the New York Central Railroad.\nThese railroads were owned by or closely related to the Boston and Maine Railroad.\n\nThe Connecticut River Division was the former Connecticut River Railroad.\nThe Eastern Division was the former Eastern Railroad.\nThe Fitchburg Division was the former Fitchburg Railroad.\nThe Southern Division was the former Boston and Lowell Railroad.\nThe Western Division was the original Boston and Maine Railroad.\nThe Worcester, Nashua and Portland Division was the former Worcester, Nashua and Rochester Railroad.\nThese railroads were owned by or closely related to the Central Vermont Railroad.\nThese railroads were owned by or closely related to the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad.\n\nThe Berkshire Division was the former Berkshire Railroad.\nThe Central New England Division was the former Central New England Railway.\nThe Hartford Division was the former Hartford and New Haven Railroad.\nThe Midland Division was the former New England Railroad.\nThe Northampton Division was the former New Haven and Northampton Company.\nThe Old Colony Division was the former Old Colony Railroad.\nThe Providence and Worcester Division was the former Providence and Worcester Railroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898337", "title": "Type 97 sniper rifle", "text": "Type 97 sniper rifle\n\nThe is a Japanese bolt-action rifle, based on the Type 38 rifle. Following the standard practice of the time, it was adapted from an existing infantry rifle. The only difference between this rifle and the original Type 38 is that it had a lightened stock, a 2.5 power telescopic sight and a mid-band setup for a monopod, although later models had this deleted. The rifle entered service in 1937. When fired, the mild 6.5x50mm Arisaka cartridge gave off little flash or smoke and made counter-sniper activity difficult. The lack of flash and smoke comes from the length of the barrel; a long barrel allows cartridge propellant to fully burn and attain the optimum combination of accuracy and bullet velocity. The scope was offset to the left, to allow stripper clip loading. Like other Mauser pattern rifles, it has a five-round box magazine. The rifle can be loaded with either a 5-round stripper clip, or single rounds.\n\nThe Type 97 was manufactured at the Nagoya Arsenal and Kokura Arsenal, with the bulk of them made in Nagoya.\n\nAfter fighting German-trained Chinese snipers, the Japanese Army decided to develop snipers for themselves. Training in camouflage, field craft and other such techniques was common to normal Japanese infantry, so snipers were specially trained only in shooting and given a sniper rifle.\n\nType 97 was the standard Japanese sniper rifle, a regular Type 38 Arisaka fitted with a scope. The Type 97 was used frequently by Japanese snipers, often hidden in palm trees or more usually hidden positions, with deadly results. As they were chambered for the 6.5x50SR Japanese cartridge, which produced virtually no smoke or flash from the long barrel of the Type or Type 97, it was a difficult rifle to spot at ranges greater than 150 yards. Experienced US troops knew they had to continue their advance when fired on by Japanese snipers in order to get closer and spot the sniper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898344", "title": "List of Yale University people", "text": "List of Yale University people\n\nYalies are persons affiliated with Yale University, commonly including alumni, current and former faculty members, students, and others. Here follows a list of notable Yalies. \nFor a list of notable alumni of Yale Law School, see List of Yale Law School alumni.\n\nSee also: Nobel laureates\n\nSee also: Nobel laureates\n\nInformation can be verified through the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges.\n\nInformation can be verified at the Biographical Directory of the U.S. Congress.\n\nAlumni who have served as governors may also have served in other government capacities, such as president or senator. In such cases, the names are left un-linked, but are annotated with a \"\"See also:\"\" which links to the section on this page where a more detailed entry can be found.\n\nThe following have worked within the cabinet for their respective governments.\n\nSee also: Supreme Court Justices\n\n\nProfessors who are also Yale alumni are listed in \"italics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1898345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898345", "title": "Bougainville People's Congress", "text": "Bougainville People's Congress\n\nThe Bougainville People's Congress was a pro-independence organisation and later political party in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, Papua New Guinea.\n\nIt was established in the late 1990s as a representative body during the Bougainville Civil War, and was led by former Premier Joseph Kabui. In the lead-up to autonomy for Bougainville, Kabui opposed the introduction of political parties into the province, stating \"the people of Bougainville regard political parties as divisive and given the hate, killings, ill-feelings and divisions that existed during the 10-year-old violent crisis on the island, the leaders of Bougainville do not want political parties to come in and divide the people once again\". In February 2005, it was recognised as a \"consultative and advisory body\" to the Interim Bougainville Provincial Government ahead of the first elections later that year.\n\nAlthough Kabui had a stated dislike for political parties, the BPC was registered as a party for the inaugural 2005 election. Kabui ran for the new position of President of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville and won, while party members performed well in the Bougainville House of Representatives. Kabui served as the first President of Bougainville from June 2005 until his death on June 7, 2008.\n\nThe party did not contest the 2015 election.\n"}
{"id": "1898349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898349", "title": "TERA rifle", "text": "TERA rifle\n\nThe TERA Rifles (挺進落下傘小銃／挺身落下傘小銃 \"\"Teishin Rakkasan Shoujuu\"\") were special Japanese takedown rifles developed for paratroopers of the Imperial Japanese Army. All designs were capable of either being broken down or folded into two parts and easily assembled or disassembled. There was one production model and two prototypes:\n\n\nThe Type 2 variant gained notoriety when it was used as a sniper rifle by the Scorpio killer in the 1971 Clint Eastwood film \"Dirty Harry\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1898354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898354", "title": "Muzi Mei", "text": "Muzi Mei\n\nMuzi Mei (; born 1978) is a journalist and blogger from Guangzhou, China, who became an Internet celebrity in late 2003. Her blog contained frank descriptions of her sexual encounters with various men, which is believed to be a first for China.\n\nHer real name is Li Li (李麗 \"Lǐ Lì\") -- \"Muzi\" (木子) becomes \"Li\" (李) when the characters are arranged vertically, and \"Mei\" (美) and \"Li\" (麗) are synonyms (both mean \"beautiful\"). She studied in the Department of Philosophy in Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou, and graduated in 2001.\n\nIn 2003 she was the topic of heated discussion and controversy in print media, bulletin boards and Internet chatrooms across China, and was even mentioned in stories in the \"New York Times\", \"TIME\" (December 12, 2005, European edition. Vol. 166, No. 24, page 31) and \"Washington Post\" and other international media. Her name was often mentioned together with Tang Jiali, a dancer who was the first to publish a book of nude artistic photographs of herself. This reflected a partial liberalization of restrictions on sexual material and nudity in Chinese publications beginning in 2003.\n\nPortions of her blog have now been translated into French and published as a book with the title \"Journal sexuel d'une jeune Chinoise sur le net\" (Éditions Albin Michel, 2005, ). A German translation is published as \"Mein intimes Tagebuch\" (Aufbau-Verlag, Jan. 2007, ).\n\nMuzi Mei was featured in an article in the December 12, 2005 issue of \"Time Magazine\" entitled \"Sex, Please—We're Young and Chinese\".\n\nBokee.com has hired her to promote the concept of blogging. She has shifted to podcasting. \"One recent podcast was an hour-long sound track of an amorous encounter, starting with 'Please come in' and finishing in climactic groans, panting and shrieking. It gets about 10,000 visits a day.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1898358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898358", "title": "Yūko Satō (voice actress)", "text": "Yūko Satō (voice actress)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898364", "title": "New Bougainville Party", "text": "New Bougainville Party\n\nNew Bougainville Party (NBP) is a political party in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville in Papua New Guinea.\n\nIt was founded on 22 April 2005 by John Momis, Governor of Bougainville Province from 1999 to 2005, with former Premier Alexis Sarei among other figures involved in its creation. Momis lost the 2005 presidential election to Joseph Kabui and resigned the party leadership, which was assumed by Ezekiel Massat. The party immediately formed a grand coalition with Kabui's Bougainville People's Congress, citing a desire to show that the province was \"politically rising\". Massat subsequently served as Minister for Police in the Kabui government. In April 2007, the party protested a reshuffle of the Kabui ministry which did not promote any of their MPs.\n\nIn December 2007, government ministers Massat and Patrick Nisira resigned from the party to sit as independents in protest at a motion by their colleagues for the establishment of a formal opposition in Bougainville. The party endorsed Raymond Hakena, a former member of 1980s band Sanguma, in the 2008 presidential by-election after Kabui's death, but lost to James Tanis. Momis returned as leader of the party in August 2009.\n\nMomis won the presidency at the 2010 election, with the party also performing well in the legislative elections. Sarei and former Premier Leo Hannett were among the NBP candidates elected to office. Momis and Vice-President Nisira were re-elected under the party banner at the 2015 election.\n"}
{"id": "1898367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898367", "title": "Type 4 rifle", "text": "Type 4 rifle\n\nThe Type 4 Rifle, often referred to as the Type 5 Rifle, (Japanese: 四式自動小銃 \"Yon-shiki Jidōshōju\") was a Japanese experimental semi-automatic rifle. It was based on the American M1 Garand with an integral 10-round magazine and chambered for the Japanese 7.7×58mm Arisaka cartridge. Where the Garand used an en-bloc clip, the Type 4's integral magazine was charged with two 5-round stripper clips and the rifle also used Japanese-style tangent sights. The Type 4 had been developed alongside several other experimental semi-automatic rifles. However, none of the rifles entered into service before the end of World War II, with only 250 being made, and many others were never assembled. There were several problems with jamming and feed systems, which also delayed its testing.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Japanese soldiers relied on bolt-action type rifles. However, guns were getting scarce and their main military opponent, the United States, had replaced their bolt weapons with modern semi-automatic rifles. At the same time, Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union were also developing their own semi-automatic weapons, such as the SVT-40 and Gewehr 43 which would give them great advantage on the battlefield. This pressured Japan to find a quick way to cope with their military disadvantage. Instead of designing and investing in a new weapon from scratch, they opted to copy the American M1 Garand. Initially, the Japanese experimented with re-chambering captured American M1 rifles, since the 7.7 Japanese cartridge is dimensionally similar to the .30-06. They found that while the Garand could chamber, fire, and cycle with the 7.7 ammunition, the en-bloc clip system was incompatible with the cartridge and would not feed reliably. Instead the Japanese designers reverse engineered the M1 and discarded the en-bloc clip, replacing it with a fixed internal 10 round magazine charged by two 5 round Arisaka Type 99 stripper clips.\n\nJapan had previously developed semi-automatic service rifles, but none of them had been viewed as successful or of trustworthy quality. The design work for the Type 4 began in 1944. The rifle was meant to be mass-produced in 1945. However, the Japanese defeat in the war in August halted its manufacturing. At the time, only 100 guns were completed out of the 250 in the workshop. Twenty of them were taken by the Allies at the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal on Honshu after the end of the war.\n\nToday, the Japanese Garand is a rarity. An example of this rifle can be found in the US National Firearms Museum, in the World War II section.\n\nAccording to the Japanese version of this article there was a Navy variant and an Army variant, the differences are not listed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898371", "title": "Meisha Merlin Publishing", "text": "Meisha Merlin Publishing\n\nMeisha Merlin Publishing was an independent publishing company founded in 1996 by former New York book editor Stephen Pagel and Kevin and Brian Murphy. The Decatur, Georgia-based company specialized in publishing fantasy and science fiction trade hardcover and trade paperback books. Certain titles were also published in deluxe, signed and numbered slipcased and signed and lettered limited editions.\n\nDuring their nine years of operation, Meisha Merlin built a large stable of fantasy and science fiction authors that included Kevin J. Anderson, Janny Wurts, Jack McDevitt, the late Robert Lynn Asprin, Robin Wayne Bailey, Storm Constantine, S. P. Somtow, Lee Killough, Phyllis Eisenstein, Allen Steele, Andre Norton, George R. R. Martin, Robert A. Heinlein, and many others. Their books were sold online and through national chain bookstores and independent booksellers throughout the United States, including Internet giant Amazon.com.\n\nIn April 2007 Meisha Merlin announced on their website that they would cease operations the following month; no further business details were disclosed. \n"}
{"id": "1898373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898373", "title": "Mayors of Cranford, New Jersey", "text": "Mayors of Cranford, New Jersey\n\nCranford, New Jersey was incorporated on March 14, 1871. The mayor is the chief elected official in the Township of Cranford, in Union County, New Jersey . The township elects five commissioners at-large to three-year terms, and the members of the township committee elect one of their own as mayor and one as deputy mayor for one-year terms. The mayor of Cranford is the chairman of the township committee and presides over meetings, sets agendas, oversees township government, and performs ceremonial functions. The mayor has the same one vote as other commissioners and is a part-time ceremonial function. The mayor of Cranford possesses other duties assigned to mayors under New Jersey law. Daniel Aschenbach was mayor 4 times. Terms are for the calendar year given unless otherwise noted. The mayors are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1898374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898374", "title": "Luke Sewell", "text": "Luke Sewell\n\nJames Luther Sewell (January 5, 1901 – May 14, 1987) was an American professional baseball player, coach and manager. He played in Major League Baseball as a catcher for the Cleveland Indians (1921–1932, 1939), Washington Senators (1933–1934), Chicago White Sox (1935–1938) and the St. Louis Browns (1942). Sewell batted and threw right-handed. He was regarded as one of the best defensive catchers of his era.\n\nBorn in the rural town of Titus, Alabama, Sewell grew up wanting to play baseball, and graduated from the University of Alabama where, he played for the Alabama Crimson Tide baseball team as an infielder. He was linked to the Cleveland Indians because his brother Joe Sewell became their starting shortstop in 1920. When Indians scout Patsy Flaherty signed Sewell, he insisted that he play as a catcher. He began the 1921 season with the Columbus Senators in the American Association but, after only 17 minor league games, Sewell made his major league debut with the Cleveland Indians on June 30, 1921.\n\nSewell served as a reserve catcher, working behind Steve O'Neill until the 1923 season when O'Neill was injured in an auto accident. Sewell then played in a platoon role alongside Glenn Myatt, in which the left-hand hitting Myatt played the team's home games at League Park due to its 290-foot distance to the right field fence, while Sewell played the team's road games. Sewell eventually took over as the Indians number one catcher in the 1926 season, due to his superior defensive skills. He finished the year with only a .238 batting average but, led the American League catchers with 91 assists.\n\nIn 1927, Sewell had a breakout year, hitting for a career-high .294 batting average with 27 doubles, 53 runs batted in, and scored 52 runs. Sewell questioned Babe Ruth's integrity in a game on June 11, . He demanded that umpires check Ruth's bat after he clouted two straight home runs off Garland Buckeye. Although he led the league's catchers with 20 errors, he also led the league with 119 assists and 71 baserunners caught stealing. Despite the fact that the Indians finished the season in sixth place, Sewell ranked ninth in voting for the American League Most Valuable Player Award. In 1928, he once again led the league's catchers with 117 assists and 60 baserunners caught stealing and ranked twelfth in voting for the American League Most Valuable Player Award.\n\nIn 1933, Sewell was traded to the Washington Senators for catcher Roy Spencer. He posted career-highs with 125 hits including 30 doubles along with 61 runs batted in as, the Senators under first-year player-manager Joe Cronin, won 99 games to clinch the American League pennant by nine games over the New York Yankees. During a September game against the Yankees, Sewell made an odd double play. Lou Gehrig and Dixie Walker were on base when, Tony Lazzeri hit a ball to deep right field. Gehrig hesitated as he waited to see if the ball might be caught, before heading towards home plate with Walker right behind him. Sewell received the throw from the outfield and tagged both runners out with one sweeping motion. Cronin credited Sewell as a major factor in helping the Senators' pitching staff. The Senators eventually lost to the New York Giants in the 1933 World Series. In what would be his only postseason appearance, Sewell posted a .176 batting average (3 for 17), with one stolen base, one run scored, and one run batted in during the five-game series.\nSewell began the 1934 season with a hand injury and didn't play his first game until June 13. Two weeks later, he was struck in the head and knocked unconscious by a pitch thrown by St. Louis Browns pitcher, Bump Hadley. Sewell ended the season with a .237 batting average.\n\nIn January 1935, Sewell was traded to the St. Louis Browns, ironically for Bump Hadley. The Browns promptly traded him to the Chicago White Sox on the very same day. His offensive statistics improved with the White Sox, posting a .285 batting average with 67 runs batted in and, finished second among the league's catchers in assists and third in fielding percentage. In 1936, Sewell produced career-highs with 5 home runs and 73 runs batted in and, led American League catchers in assists and in baserunners caught stealing. By the first week of June 1937, Sewell had a .316 batting average to earn a spot as a reserve for the American League team in the 1937 All-Star Game. That year, he put up even better numbers than the consistently good ones he had been posting for a decade. On the season, he had a .269 batting average, with a .343 on-base percentage and six triples. Sewell finished the season ranked fifth in voting for the American League Most Valuable Player Award.\n\nSewell's batting average dropped to .213 in 1938 and, in December of that year, he was purchased by the Brooklyn Dodgers for $7500. In April 1939, the 39-year-old Sewell was released by the Dodgers but, promptly signed a contract as a third-string catcher and pitching coach for the Cleveland Indians. The Indians hoped to groom him as an eventual replacement for manager Oscar Vitt who had fallen from the graces of General Manager Cy Slapnicka. He spent the 1940 season as a pitching coach but, when the Indians decided to hire Roger Peckinpaugh as their manager for the 1941 season, Sewell accepted the manager's position with the St. Louis Browns, replacing Fred Haney. Because of the shortage of major league players during the Second World War, Sewell served as a player-manager during the 1942 season, appearing in six games. He played his final game as a player on August 1, at the age of 41.\n\nIn a 20-year major league career, Sewell played in 1,630 games, accumulating 1,393 hits in 5,383 at bats for a .259 career batting average along with 20 home runs, 698 runs batted in and an on-base percentage of .323. He retired with a .978 fielding percentage. As a catcher, Sewell had a strong throwing arm, leading the American League four times in baserunners caught stealing and four times in assists.\n\nEven for the era, Sewell's low strikeout numbers were remarkable. He never struck out more than 27 times in a season, and his career best was just 16 strikeouts in 451 at-bats in . Sewell held the American League record of 20 seasons as an active catcher until Carlton Fisk surpassed the record with 24 seasons as an active catcher with the Boston Red Sox (1969, 1971–80) and the Chicago White Sox (1981–93). He caught three no-hitters in his career; Wes Ferrell in 1931, Vern Kennedy in 1935, and Bill Dietrich in 1938. In his book, \"The Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract\", baseball historian Bill James ranked Sewell as the fourth best catcher in the American League during his career. James ranked Mickey Cochrane, Bill Dickey and Rick Ferrell as the top three, all of whom were inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nSewell and his brother Joe, rank eighth on the all-time list of combined hits by brothers, with 3,619. Besides his brother, Joe Sewell, a Hall of Fame shortstop, he had another brother named Tommy Sewell, who had one at-bat with the Chicago Cubs.\n\nAfter retiring as an active player, Sewell continued to manage the St. Louis Browns. He led them to the American League pennant – the team's only championship in its 52 years in St. Louis, although they lost to the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1944 World Series. That year, he managed such players as Red Hayworth, Vern Stephens, and Jack Kramer, led them to an 89-65 record, and was awarded \"The Sporting News\"' Manager of the Year Award. After a seventh-place finish in 1946, Sewell stepped down as the Browns' manager.\n\nIn January 1949 Sewell was hired as a pitching coach by the Cincinnati Reds and, in October of that year, he took over as the Reds' manager from Bucky Walters. After two unsuccessful seasons with the Reds, he resigned in July 1952 and was replaced by Rogers Hornsby. Sewell's major league managerial record was 606-644, a .485 winning percentage.\n\nIn December , Sewell was hired as manager of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the International League. He led the team to the league championship in his first season and won the International League Manager of the Year Award. Sewell led the Maple Leafs to a second-place finish in 1955. The team had a .622 winning percentage over his two years as manager. In November , he was named as the manager for the Seattle Rainiers of the Pacific Coast League. In August , Sewell was fired after one season in part due to player discontent over his managerial style.\n\nSewell died in Akron, Ohio in at the age of 86.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898376", "title": "Cerveteri", "text": "Cerveteri\n\nCerveteri () is a town and \"comune\" of northern Lazio in the region of the Metropolitan City of Rome. Known by the ancient Romans as Caere, and previously by the Etruscans as Caisra or Cisra, and as Agylla (or \"Άγυλλα\") by the Greeks, its modern name derives from Caere Vetus used in the 13th century to distinguish it from Caere Novum (the current town).\n\nIt is the site of the ancient Etruscan city which was one of the most important Etruscan cities with an area more than 15 times larger than today's town.\n\nCaere was one of the city-states of the Etruscan League and at its height, around 600 BC, its population was perhaps around 25,000 – 40,000 people.\n\nThe ancient city was situated about 7 km from the sea, a location which made it a wealthy trading town derived originally from the iron-ore mines in the Tolfa Hills.\n\nIt had three sea ports including Pyrgi, connected to Caere by a road about 13 km long and 10 m wide, and Punicum.\n\nPyrgi was also famous for its sanctuary of monumental temples from 510 BC, built by the king of Caere and dedicated to the goddesses Leucothea and Ilithyia, of which impressive and beautiful sculptures are exhibited at the Villa Giulia.\n\nLittle is known of the ancient city, although six temples are known from various sources. Two of them have been excavated, one of Hera, the other in the north of the city. Parts of the city walls are still visible today and excavations opened up a theatre. Three necropolis were found. The contents of the tombs were excavated, often chaotically and illegally; over the last few centuries, they have yielded rich and exquisite objects, including ceramics and jewellery which today grace many of the world's museums. One famous and important work of art is the Sarcophagus of the Spouses.\n\nThe most famous attraction of Cerveteri is the Necropoli della Banditaccia, which has been declared by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site together with the necropolis in Tarquinia. It covers an area of , of which can be visited, encompassing a total of about 1,000 tombs often housed in characteristic mounds. It is the largest ancient necropolis in the Mediterranean area. The name Banditaccia comes from the leasing (\"bando\") of areas of land to the Cerveteri population by the local landowners.\n\nThe tombs date from the 9th century BC (Villanovan culture) to the later Etruscan period (third century BC). The earliest tombs are in the shape of a pit, in which the ashes of the dead were housed; also, simple potholes are present.\n\nThe most important tombs include: \nFrom the later Etruscan period are two types of tombs: tumulus-type tombs and the so-called \"dice\", the latter being simple square tombs built in long rows along roads within the necropolis. The visitable area contains two such roads, the Via dei Monti Ceriti and the Via dei Monti della Tolfa (6th century BC).\n\nThe tumuli are circular structures built in tuff, and the interiors, carved from the living rock, house a reconstruction of the house of the dead, including a corridor (\"dromos\"), a central hall, and several rooms. Modern knowledge of Etruscan daily life is largely dependent on the numerous decorative details and finds from such tombs. One of the most famous tombs is the Tomb of the Reliefs, identified from an inscription as belonging to the Matuna family and provided with an exceptional series of frescoes, bas-reliefs and sculptures portraying a large series of contemporary life tools.\n\nThe most recent tombs date from the 3rd century BC. Some of them are marked by external cippi, which are cylindrical for men, and in the shape of a small house for women.\n\nA large number of finds excavated at Cerveteri are in the National Etruscan Museum, Rome, with others in the Vatican Museums and many other museums around the world. Others, mainly pottery, are in the Archaeological Museum at Cerveteri itself.\n\n\nAround the city of Cerveteri is an Italian DOC wine region that produces red and white blended wines. The red wines are blends of 60% Sangiovese and Montepulciano, 25% Cesanese and up to 30% of Canaiolo, Carignan and Barbera. The grapes are limited to a harvest yield of 15 tonnes/ha and the final wine must have a minimum alcohol level of 11%. The white wines are composed of a minimum blend of 50% Trebbiano Romagnolo and Giallo, a maximum of 35% Malvasia di Candia and a maximum of 15% Friulano, Verdicchio, Bellone and Bombino bianco. The grapes are limited to a harvest yield of 14 tonnes/ha and the final wine must have a minimum alcohol level of 12%.\n\nFor the ancient bishopric that originally had its seat in Cerveteri and is now a titular see, see Caere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898386", "title": "Takumi Yamazaki", "text": "Takumi Yamazaki\n\nTakumi Yamazaki (, born Isao Yamazaki , April 14, 1964 in Tokyo) is a Japanese voice actor.\n\n1990s\n\n2000s\n\n2010s\n\n2020s\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898391", "title": "Type 26 revolver", "text": "Type 26 revolver\n\nIt is an amalgamation of design features from other revolvers made during the time period. The revolver has a design flaw in that the cylinder freewheels when not engaged, so during movement (such as in combat) it may rotate to an already fired chamber. Five distinct phases of production have different markings depending on the time and individual Type 26 produced. The 9mm Japanese revolver ammunition used is unique to the weapon. The Type 26 has a double-action only mechanism and is therefore difficult to aim accurately. The Type 26 was replaced by the Nambu pistol in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nKnown as the \"Meiji 26 Nen Ken Ju\" (meaning \"\"Pistol, Pattern of the 26th year of the Meiji era\"\"), the Type 26 revolver was the first indigenous revolver adopted by the Japanese military. The Type 26 was produced to replace the aging Smith & Wesson New Model No. 3 and was officially adopted March 29, 1894. The design is widely believed to be a mixture of features taken from other revolvers. The lock design is similar to Galand designs, the hinged frame is similar to Smith & Wesson designs, and the hinged side plate covering the lock is similar to the Modèle 1892 revolver. The cartridge was loaded with black powder until 1900 when the cartridges began to be loaded with smokeless powder. The Type 26 is considered a remarkable leap in Japanese pistol development despite the international influence, with the matchlock being the most common domestic Japanese handgun 40 years earlier. Production stopped after 1923 when much of the Koishikawa Arsenal was destroyed in the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, with assembly continuing until the exhaustion of stockpiled parts. Approximately 59,000 Type 26 revolvers were produced and an additional 900 revolvers were made in pre-production. Restoration and re-issue of revolvers that had been removed from service because of damage or wear, was carried out on an as needed basis over a period of many years. The original Type 26s are missing the external markings of later produced revolvers and are identifiable by numbers stamped on internal parts. Type 26s were still being used in 1945 which, according to firearms expert and author Ian Hogg, is considered a testament to their original workmanship and a much more suitable combat weapon than later Japanese produced pistols.\n\nThe Type 26 revolver is 231 mm (9.09 in) in length and 130 mm (5.12 in) tall, weighing 880 g (1 lb 15oz) unloaded. It has an octagonal barrel, with the foresight blade being embedded directly into the barrel. The rear sight is incorporated into the top of the frame. A hinged sideplate allows access to the mechanism for lubricating and servicing. The weapon was opened by lifting the top latch, after which the barrel was swung downward, activating the automatic ejector. The notch that allows access to the cylinder is at the top rear of the frame. The revolver is double-action only because of the absence of a cocking spur, intended to avoid snagging on clothing and firing accidentally. The lock was self-cocking and was slow to respond. The delay in response made accurate shooting virtually impossible. The cylinder contains a serious design flaw, with it only notching while the hammer is cocked. This allows the cylinder to revolve by being brushed against an object or the inertia from a sudden sideways motion. As the cylinder can move freely, an empty or already fired chamber can rotate into position instead of the next shot, a dangerous event for the user during combat. Later Type 26 Revolvers have grips with lateral serrations in place of an earlier knurled pattern as well as differences in external finish, depth, and look of die stamped markings. The bluing of the steel is excellent, even though the steel used is soft compared to Western standards. The 9mm Japanese revolver ammunition used by the Type 26 is unique to the weapon. Both the Type 26 Revolver and the ammunition used was later replaced by semi-automatic pistols such as the Nambu in the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nDifferences in markings and appearance across surviving Type 26 revolvers, has led to the categorization of production runs into five categories.\n\nEarly production Type 26s have no external markings. The revolvers have markings that indicate they were arsenal re-worked and believed to have been produced in late 1893 or early 1894 before official adoption. It is possible that around 300 revolvers with no external marking were produced. No known examples of Type 26 revolvers have duplicate serial numbers.\n\nA small number of revolvers are known to have the external arsenal symbol stamped but without the external serial number stamped on the frame. The revolvers are interspersed among revolvers with standard production markings for unknown reasons. This production range has examples reported to chamber .38 S&W ammunition but this could be because of later modification.\n\nAll standard production Type 26s have checked pattern grip panels as well as original finished characteristics. Most standard production revolvers have a serial number that is between 1,000 and 58,900. Many of the standard production models suffered from extreme wear because of the long military service the revolvers served.\n\nThe final production revolvers were possibly produced after the Great Kantō earthquake and possibly only 325 of these revolvers were produced. Known examples have serial numbers ranging from 58,903 and 59,227.\n\nArsenal reworked Type 26s lack the bright charcoal blue finish or standard checked patterned grip panels. Serrated grip panels are common among reworked Type 26s and the marking of the Nagoya Arsenal indicate repairing of the Type 26 past its production at the Koshikawa Arsenal. Two existing arsenal reworked Type 26s show stampings of Siamese numerals on the front grips indicating official procurement by the Thai government. Two additional reworked Type 26s have a five-pointed star stamped on the side plate of the revolver indicating Indonesian service after World War II.\n\nThe Type 26 revolver was issued with a clamshell holster similar to the French Modèle 1892 revolver. The earliest Type 26 holsters were black, and the cotton lanyards issued with them were a dark blue color known in Japan as \"kon\". A leather pocket for the cleaning rod was provided, sewn onto the forward edge of the holster body. Most examples of holsters are stamped on the inside of the clamshell flap with the maker's identification and arsenal inspection markings with the year of manufacture. Very early holsters, issued in the late 1890s and early 1900s, were of a slightly different size and shape and without a pocket for the cleaning rod. A few holsters developed in 1943 have been noted to be all black lacquered hardware, missing the brass and galvanized steel fittings. Holsters produced towards the end of World War II have a last ditch fabric similar to late production Type 94 Nambu pistol holsters, with no shoulder straps or pouches for cleaning rods and ammunition.\n\nThe Type 90 tear gas grenade launcher was developed to be fired with the Type 26 revolver. Gas grenades could be fired by a special 9x22 mm cartridge in place of the regular ball ammunition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898395", "title": "Type 94 Nambu pistol", "text": "Type 94 Nambu pistol\n\nThe Type 94 Nambu 8 mm Pistol (Type 94 Handgun, Japanese: 九四式拳銃 Kyūyon-Shiki Kenjū) is a semiautomatic pistol developed by Kijirō Nambu and his associates for the Imperial Japanese Army. Development of the Type 94 pistol began in 1929, and after several redesigns the final prototype was tested and officially adopted by the Japanese Army in late 1934 (Japanese calendar, 2594). The Type 94 pistol entered production in 1935. Approximately 71,000 pistols were manufactured before production ended in 1945.\n\nThe Type 94 pistol was designed for (and popular among) Japanese tank and aircraft crews who preferred a smaller, lightweight design. Japanese weapons experts have subsequently criticized some design elements of the Type 94; in particular the pistol could be fired unintentionally before the breech was fully locked if the sear bar on the side of the receiver was jarred loose and the pistol was improperly handled. Additionally, the process to disassemble the pistol is overly complex and awkward. The build quality of the Type 94 pistol declined over its production run; \"last ditch\" pistols made in 1945 were crudely manufactured.\n\nThe Type 94 Nambu pistol was designed by Kojiro Nambu after he retired from the Japanese Army and founded the Nambu Rifle Manufacturing Company. Design for the Type 94 Nambu pistol commenced in 1929 with the goal of reducing the bulk and price of previous Nambu designs. The Imperial Japanese Army felt a smaller pistol of domestic design that could accommodate the standard 8×22mm Nambu cartridge was needed to substitute the larger, heavier, and only official military pistol, the Type 14 Nambu. The demand for officer's handguns had increased as a result of Japan's invasion of Manchuria during the Second Sino-Japanese War. A new design was also wanted by the Japanese Army to include a magazine safety, to prevent unintentional discharges during cleaning that were common among Japanese personnel. Naming of the Type 94 pistol reflects the change in Japanese nomenclature with the 94 reckoning back to the mythical foundation of Japan in 660 BC therefore year 2594 instead of the traditional emperor reign period used to name the Type 26 revolver or Type 14 Nambu pistol. The final prototype for the Type 94 was officially adopted by the Japanese Army in late 1934 after several redesigns. Production began under the supervision of the Nagoya Army Arsenal at the Nambu Rifle Manufacturing Company and later its successor, Chuo Kogyo Company, Ltd. An estimated 71,000 pistols were produced for the military but the exact quantity is unknown because of the production of unserialized pistols and undated pistols. During World War II the pistol became a preferred weapon for tank crews and paratroopers who required a smaller, more convenient pistol. The Type 94 was never officially adopted by the Imperial Japanese Navy but was available to officers through the Japanese officers' union.\n\nThe Type 94 pistol is operated by a different mechanism than previous Japanese sidearms. Unlike previously designed Nambu pistols, the Type 94 operates with a concealed hammer and with a firing pin rather than a hammer. According to authors, Harry L. Derby and James D. Brown, the firing pin is inherently weak and is prone to breakage because of a recess cut provided for the crossbolt and is prone to breaking at this point. The sturdier hammer firing mechanism was developed and included in the Type 94 to replace the poor striker on the Type 14 Nambu. The locking system is a rising-block type which floats independently between the lugs underneath the chamber end of the barrel. The single coil mainspring is positioned around the barrel instead of to the rear of the barrel as found on other Nambu pistols. The grip is smaller than other Japanese pistols and is finished with smooth wood but according to author Jeff Kinard, are more comfortable for use by men with smaller hands. The magazine holds a maximum of six rounds because of the smaller grip and it is considered difficult to reload the weapon, with pressure from the bolt holding it inside the pistol. The magazine catch protrudes far enough to occasionally disengage when the pistol is placed on its left side on a hard surface. The magazine could also disengage if squeezed into or jarred in a holster. The manual safety lever is located on the left rear of the frame and has the kanji for fire and safe stamped onto the frame. The front blade sight on the muzzle of the Type 94 pistol and the rear fixed V were occasionally inaccurately positioned making them useless when the weapon is being aimed. The rear sight was reduced from a U-shape to a simple notch in 1944 with the front blade being left unchanged but less attention to detail being applied as World War II progressed.\n\nThe quality of Type 94 Nambu pistols decreased towards the end of World War II as the Japanese faced bombing raids from allied forces and material shortages increased. This drastic change in quality from late March 1945, onwards with all quality standards appearing to disappear towards the end of June 1945. The smooth wooden finished grip was replaced by a bakelite checkered pattern. Many pistols were not serialized and no pistols have been reported that bear July 1945 manufacture date. Only four unserialized and undated pistols are known to exist and include mismatch parts with no inspection marks, lanyard loops, and extractors. A small number of pistols made during the final production stages include earlier production dates and appear to have been salvaged from previously discarded pistols that had minor or cosmetic defects.\n\nDisassembly of the Type 94 Nambu pistol is considered difficult and can lead to damage to the pistol if done carelessly. After clearing the Type 94, the operator must draw the slide against the magazine follower to hold the bolt to the rear of the pistol. This will allow the crossbolt to be released after the firing pin is depressed. Removal of the crossbolt without depressing the firing pin will damage both the firing pin and the crossbolt. Removing the crossbolt is further complicated as the disassemblers hands are both holding the pistol and depressing the firing pin.\n\nHolsters for the Type 94 pistol were generally made from either pigskin or cowhide leather and ranged in color from tan to dark reddish brown. Holsters faced the same degradation in quality as the Type 94 pistol. As supplies of leather were exhausted in Japan, holsters manufactured in 1944 became fabricated from olive drab fabric. The Type 94 pistol holster is distinguishable from other Japanese holsters having a pointed closure flap and a vertically positioned magazine pouch. The pouch tow has a narrow extension to accommodate a cleaning rod. The majority of holsters were made in civilian owned tanneries with some ink stamped with arsenal and inspection marks. A belt loop and two shoulder strap \"D\" rings are provided on the rear of the holster and are made from brass, galvanized steel, or nickel plating.\n\nThe poor design of the breech allowed the Type 94 Nambu to be fired unintentionally. The sear bar on the Type 94 Nambu converts the forward pull of the trigger into a lateral movement that frees the hammer. Because the sear bar is on the outside of the pistol, it could be jarred loose during engagement if the pistol was cocked and handled carelessly. The forward end of the sear bar would need to be depressed approximately 2mm to cause the weapon to fire. The ability to fire the Type 94 without pulling the trigger gave rise to war stories of Japanese soldiers surrendering, only to fire the pistol, earning the pistol monikers such as the \"suicide special\" and the \"surrender pistol\". These stories are widely discredited because of the difficulty to fire the weapon by squeezing the sear bar. If the safety is engaged on the Type 94 it is impossible for the weapon to discharge unintentionally.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898396", "title": "Chrome yellow", "text": "Chrome yellow\n\nChrome yellow is lead(II) chromate (PbCrO). It occurs naturally as the mineral crocoite but the mineral ore was never used as a pigment for paint. After the French chemist Louis Vauquelin discovered the new element chromium in 1797 lead chromate was synthesized in the laboratory and used as a pigment beginning in the second decade of the nineteenth century.\n\nChrome yellow had been commonly made by mixing solutions of lead nitrate and potassium chromate and filtering off the lead chromate precipitate.\n\nThe pigment tends to react with hydrogen sulfide and darken on exposure to air over time, forming lead sulfide, and it contains the toxic heavy metal lead plus the toxic, carcinogenic chromate. For these reasons, it was replaced by another pigment, cadmium yellow (mixed with enough cadmium orange to produce a color equivalent to chrome yellow). Darkening may also occur from reduction by sulfur dioxide. Good quality pigments have been coated to inhibit contact with gases that can change their color.\nThe first recorded use of \"chrome yellow\" as a color name in English was in 1818.\n\nThe Piper J-3 Cub aircraft had chrome yellow as its standard overall color, usually called \"Cub Yellow\" or \"Lock Haven Yellow\" in aviation circles, from the Piper factory that existed in Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, where it was made in the 1930s and during World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898399", "title": "Ossolin, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship", "text": "Ossolin, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship\n\nOssolin is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Klimontów, within Sandomierz County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It lies approximately north-east of Klimontów, west of Sandomierz, and east of the regional capital Kielce.\n\nThe village has a population of 180.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898400", "title": "Rosemont, Pennsylvania", "text": "Rosemont, Pennsylvania\n\nRosemont is a neighborhood in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania on the Pennsylvania Main Line. It is located in Lower Merion Township, Montgomery County. It is best known as the home of Rosemont College.\n\nRosemont is served by its own stops on both the Paoli/Thorndale Line of SEPTA Regional Rail and the Norristown High Speed Line.\n\nThe community of Garrett Hill is in Radnor Township and in the Rosemont section.\n\nThe Joseph Sinnott Mansion was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nThe neighborhood of \"Beaupre\" in Rosemont was once the 200-acre estate of the same name, built for Alexander Cassatt's son, Robert. The original mansion still stands and is part of Rosemont Presbyterian Village, and the original French iron gates flank entrances from Conestoga Road and South Ithan Avenue.\n\nPupils living in the Radnor Township portion of Rosemont attend schools in Radnor Township School District, while students in the Lower Merion Township portion attend schools in the Lower Merion School District.\n\nUntil 1980, the Radnor Township, Delaware County portion of the community was served by Rosemont Elementary School, located in the Garret Hill neighborhood of the town. The Rosemont Business Campus now stands on the former elementary school site. Children in these neighborhoods are now bused to the Radnor Elementary School.\n\nHoly Child School at Rosemont (formerly Rosemont School of the Holy Child), located in Rosemont and in Lower Merion Township, is neither affiliated with nor governed by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia. The school is adjacent to Rosemont College.\n\nThe Agnes Irwin School is located on Ithan Avenue in Rosemont. It is an all-girl, non-sectarian, day school for PreK-Grade 12 founded by Miss Agnes Irwin and her sister Sofie.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Saint Thomas of Villanova Parish run by the Augustinian Order also ran a parochial school, which closed in the 1980s, adjacent to their Rosemont chapel and serving the Rosemont community.\n\nRosemont College is in Rosemont on Montgomery Avenue at Curwen Road.\n\nRosemont is home to the following parks:\n"}
{"id": "1898401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898401", "title": "Arc length", "text": "Arc length\n\nArc length is the distance between two points along a section of a curve.\n\nDetermining the length of an irregular arc segment is also called of a curve. The advent of infinitesimal calculus led to a general formula that provides closed-form solutions in some cases.\n\nA curve in the plane can be approximated by connecting a finite number of points on the curve using line segments to create a polygonal path. Since it is straightforward to calculate the length of each linear segment (using the Pythagorean theorem in Euclidean space, for example), the total length of the approximation can be found by summing the lengths of each linear segment; that approximation is known as the \"(cumulative) chordal distance\".\n\nIf the curve is not already a polygonal path, using a progressively larger number of segments of smaller lengths will result in better approximations. The lengths of the successive approximations will not decrease and may keep increasing indefinitely, but for smooth curves they will tend to a finite limit as the lengths of the segments get arbitrarily small.\n\nFor some curves there is a smallest number formula_1 that is an upper bound on the length of any polygonal approximation. These curves are called and the number formula_1 is defined as the .\n\nLet formula_3 be a continuously differentiable function. The length of the curve defined by formula_4 can be defined as the limit of the sum of line segment lengths for a regular partition of formula_5 as the number of segments approaches infinity. This means\n\nwhere formula_7 for formula_8 This definition is equivalent to the standard definition of arc length as an integral:\n\nThe last equality above is true because of the following: (i) . (ii) the function formula_10 is continuous, thus it is uniformly continuous, so there is a positive real function formula_11 of positive real formula_12 such that formula_13 implies formula_14 This means\n\nhas absolute value less than formula_16 for formula_17 This means that in the limit formula_18 the left term above equals the right term, which is just the Riemann integral of formula_19 on formula_20 This definition of arc length shows that the length of a curve formula_21 continuously differentiable on formula_5 is always finite. In other words, the curve is always rectifiable.\n\nThe definition of arc length of a smooth curve as the integral of the norm of the derivative is equivalent to the definition\n\nwhere the supremum is taken over all possible partitions formula_24 of formula_20 This definition is also valid if formula_4 is merely continuous, not differentiable.\n\nA curve can be parameterized in infinitely many ways. Let formula_27 be any continuously differentiable bijection. Then formula_28 is another continuously differentiable parameterization of the curve originally defined by formula_29 The arc length of the curve is the same regardless of the parameterization used to define the curve:\n\nIf a planar curve in formula_31 is defined by the equation formula_32 where formula_4 is continuously differentiable, then it is simply a special case of a parametric equation where formula_34 and formula_35 The arc length is then given by:\n\nCurves with closed-form solutions for arc length include the catenary, circle, cycloid, logarithmic spiral, parabola, semicubical parabola and straight line. The lack of a closed form solution for the arc length of an elliptic and hyperbolic arc led to the development of the elliptic integrals.\n\nIn most cases, including even simple curves, there are no closed-form solutions for arc length and numerical integration is necessary. Numerical integration of the arc length integral is usually very efficient. For example, consider the problem of finding the length of a quarter of the unit circle by numerically integrating the arc length integral. The upper half of the unit circle can be parameterized as formula_37 The interval formula_38 corresponds to a quarter of the circle. Since formula_39 and formula_40 the length of a quarter of the unit circle is\n\nThe 15-point Gauss–Kronrod rule estimate for this integral of differs from the true length of\n\nby and the 16-point Gaussian quadrature rule estimate of differs from the true length by only . This means it is possible to evaluate this integral to almost machine precision with only 16 integrand evaluations.\n\nLet formula_43 be a surface mapping and let formula_44 be a curve on this surface. The integrand of the arc length integral is formula_45 Evaluating the derivative requires the chain rule for vector fields:\n\nThe squared norm of this vector is formula_47 (where formula_48 is the first fundamental form coefficient), so the integrand of the arc length integral can be written as formula_49 (where formula_50 and formula_51).\n\nLet formula_52 be a curve expressed in polar coordinates. The mapping that transforms from polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates is\n\nThe integrand of the arc length integral is formula_45 The chain rule for vector fields shows that formula_55 So the squared integrand of the arc length integral is\n\nSo for a curve expressed in polar coordinates, the arc length is\n\nNow let formula_58 be a curve expressed in spherical coordinates where formula_59 is the polar angle measured from the positive formula_60-axis and formula_61 is the azimuthal angle. The mapping that transforms from spherical coordinates to rectangular coordinates is\n\nUsing the chain rule again shows that formula_63 All dot products formula_64 where formula_65 and formula_66 differ are zero, so the squared norm of this vector is\n\nSo for a curve expressed in spherical coordinates, the arc length is\n\nA very similar calculation shows that the arc length of a curve expressed in cylindrical coordinates is\n\nArc lengths are denoted by \"s\", since the Latin word for length (or size) is \"spatium\".\n\nIn the following lines, formula_70 represents the radius of a circle, formula_71 is its diameter, formula_72 is its circumference, formula_73 is the length of an arc of the circle, and formula_59 is the angle which the arc subtends at the centre of the circle. The distances formula_75 and formula_73 are expressed in the same units.\n\n\nTwo units of length, the nautical mile and the metre (or kilometre), were originally defined so the lengths of arcs of great circles on the Earth's surface would be simply numerically related to the angles they subtend at its centre. The simple equation formula_92 applies in the following circumstances:\n\nThe lengths of the distance units were chosen to make the circumference of the Earth equal kilometres, or nautical miles. Those are the numbers of the corresponding angle units in one complete turn.\n\nThose definitions of the metre and the nautical mile have been superseded by more precise ones, but the original definitions are still accurate enough for conceptual purposes and some calculations. For example, they imply that one kilometre is exactly 0.54 nautical miles. Using official modern definitions, one nautical mile is exactly 1.852 kilometres, which implies that 1 kilometre is about nautical miles. This modern ratio differs from the one calculated from the original definitions by less than one part in 10,000.\n\nFor much of the history of mathematics, even the greatest thinkers considered it impossible to compute the length of an irregular arc. Although Archimedes had pioneered a way of finding the area beneath a curve with his \"method of exhaustion\", few believed it was even possible for curves to have definite lengths, as do straight lines. The first ground was broken in this field, as it often has been in calculus, by approximation. People began to inscribe polygons within the curves and compute the length of the sides for a somewhat accurate measurement of the length. By using more segments, and by decreasing the length of each segment, they were able to obtain a more and more accurate approximation. In particular, by inscribing a polygon of many sides in a circle, they were able to find approximate values of π.\n\nIn the 17th century, the method of exhaustion led to the rectification by geometrical methods of several transcendental curves: the logarithmic spiral by Evangelista Torricelli in 1645 (some sources say John Wallis in the 1650s), the cycloid by Christopher Wren in 1658, and the catenary by Gottfried Leibniz in 1691.\n\nIn 1659, Wallis credited William Neile's discovery of the first rectification of a nontrivial algebraic curve, the semicubical parabola. The accompanying figures appear on page 145. On page 91, William Neile is mentioned as \"Gulielmus Nelius\".\n\nBefore the full formal development of calculus, the basis for the modern integral form for arc length was independently discovered by Hendrik van Heuraet and Pierre de Fermat.\n\nIn 1659 van Heuraet published a construction showing that the problem of determining arc length could be transformed into the problem of determining the area under a curve (i.e., an integral). As an example of his method, he determined the arc length of a semicubical parabola, which required finding the area under a parabola. In 1660, Fermat published a more general theory containing the same result in his \"De linearum curvarum cum lineis rectis comparatione dissertatio geometrica\" (Geometric dissertation on curved lines in comparison with straight lines).\n\nBuilding on his previous work with tangents, Fermat used the curve\n\nwhose tangent at \"x\" = \"a\" had a slope of\n\nso the tangent line would have the equation\n\nNext, he increased \"a\" by a small amount to \"a\" + \"ε\", making segment \"AC\" a relatively good approximation for the length of the curve from \"A\" to \"D\". To find the length of the segment \"AC\", he used the Pythagorean theorem:\n\nwhich, when solved, yields\n\nIn order to approximate the length, Fermat would sum up a sequence of short segments.\n\nAs mentioned above, some curves are non-rectifiable. That is, there is no upper bound on the lengths of polygonal approximations; the length can be made arbitrarily large. Informally, such curves are said to have infinite length. There are continuous curves on which every arc (other than a single-point arc) has infinite length. An example of such a curve is the Koch curve. Another example of a curve with infinite length is the graph of the function defined by \"f\"(\"x\") = \"x\" sin(1/\"x\") for any open set with 0 as one of its delimiters and \"f\"(0) = 0. Sometimes the Hausdorff dimension and Hausdorff measure are used to quantify the size of such curves.\n\nLet formula_102 be a (pseudo-)Riemannian manifold, formula_103 a curve in formula_102 and formula_105 the (pseudo-) metric tensor.\n\nThe length of formula_106 is defined to be\n\nwhere formula_108 is the tangent vector of formula_106 at formula_110 The sign in the square root is chosen once for a given curve, to ensure that the square root is a real number. The positive sign is chosen for spacelike curves; in a pseudo-Riemannian manifold, the negative sign may be chosen for timelike curves. Thus the length of a curve is a non-negative real number. Usually no curves are considered which are partly spacelike and partly timelike.\n\nIn theory of relativity, arc length of timelike curves (world lines) is the proper time elapsed along the world line, and arc length of a spacelike curve the proper distance along the curve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898404", "title": "Mayumi Yamaguchi", "text": "Mayumi Yamaguchi\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898407", "title": "Sam Jankovich", "text": "Sam Jankovich\n\nSam Jankovich (September 10, 1934 – October 30, 2019) was an American sports administrator who held several positions, including athletic director at the Washington State University and the University of Miami. He also was the CEO of the New England Patriots of the National Football League and president and general manager of the Las Vegas Gladiators of the Arena Football League.\n\nA native of Butte, Montana, Jankovich earned a letter in football in 1957 at the University of Montana in Missoula, then known as Montana State University. His playing career was cut short by a serious knee injury; Jankovich tried to give his scholarship back but Grizzly coach Jerry Williams refused his offer.\n\nAfter graduation, Jankovich became a football coach at Butte High School, where he won two state championships. He later became an assistant coach at Montana State University in Bozeman under head coach Jim Sweeney. In 1968, he followed Sweeney to Washington State University in Pullman, where he served as head assistant coach and defensive coordinator. He left coaching in 1972, when he became an assistant to the athletic director at Washington State.\n\nAfter several years as an assistant athletic director, Jankovich succeeded Ray Nagel as WSU's athletic director in August 1976. He established a reputation for building athletic facilities, primarily expanding Martin Stadium in 1979 by lowering the field and removing the track. This required the addition of the new Mooberry track facility and the relocation of the baseball stadium.\nIn 1983, Jankovich took a job as athletic director at the University of Miami in southern Florida, and held this position until 1990. During his tenure, Miami's football team rose to perennial national power and men's basketball returned after a 15-year absence. Jankovich oversaw several national championships including three in football and one each in baseball, men's and women's tennis, and women's golf.\n\nIn December 1990, Jankovich was hired by Victor Kiam as Chief Executive Officer of the New England Patriots. He was hired to rebuild the team after a league-worst 1–13 finish, while being plagued by off-the-field problems. He left after two seasons, as the Patriots went 6–10 in 1991 and 2–14 in 1992.\n\nJankovich then worked as a consultant to various corporations and universities including doing fundraising for the U.S. Olympic Committee. He would eventually become president and general manager of the Las Vegas Gladiators of the Arena Football League.\n\nIn the summer of 1979, Jankovich was involved in a fatal highway collision north of Pullman on a Sunday afternoon. He apparently fell asleep at the wheel and crossed the center line, but did not face criminal charges.\n"}
{"id": "1898412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898412", "title": "Harry Scott (boxer)", "text": "Harry Scott (boxer)\n\nHarry Scott (27 October 1937 – 16 December 2015) was a British boxer and contender in the middleweight division during the 1960s.\n\nScott started off as an amateur winning the Bronze medal at the 1959 European Boxing Championships in Lucerne.\n\nScott turned professional in 1960.\n\nHe never fought for the British title, losing three final eliminators. Yet his ability was widely recognised, and he fought around the world, facing four past or future world champions, including Emile Griffith and Alan Minter.\n\nBut he is best known for his two contests in 1965 at the Royal Albert Hall against Rubin \"Hurricane\" Carter, who had fought for the world title the previous December. In their first meeting in March, Carter was awarded the victory on cuts in the ninth round despite trailing on points, only to be outpointed six weeks later, in what Boxing News declared to be one of the finest victories by a British boxer in the previous 20 years.\n\nITV made a documentary about Scott called \"Come Out Fighting\" in 1967. It included segments of Scott's family life and his boxing career.\n\nScott retired in 1973.\n\nFollowing Scott's retirement he went on to be a Green Grocer. Scott had two children.\n\nCareer Record: \n\n"}
{"id": "1898418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898418", "title": "Torneio Rio – São Paulo", "text": "Torneio Rio – São Paulo\n\nThe Torneio Rio – São Paulo () was a traditional Brazilian football competition contested between São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro teams from 1933 to 1966, in 1993 and from 1997 to 2002.\n\nOrganized by the state football associations of the state of São Paulo and the city of Rio de Janeiro (after unification of the states of Guanabara and Rio de Janeiro), the official name of the tournament became the \"Torneio Roberto Gomes Pedrosa\" in 1954, named after former goalkeeper of the Brazilian national team and president of the São Paulo Football Association who died in that year. This name was not broadly popularized used until 1967 when the tournament was first opened to teams from the states of Minas Gerais, Paraná and Rio Grande do Sul, and later also from Pernambuco and Bahia. The Torneio Roberto Gomes Pedrosa, also often referred to as \"Taça Prata\" (Silver Cup) and contested until 1970, is generally considered the predecessor of the Brazilian Football Championship which started in 1971.\n\nDue to its continental size and historical peculiarities, Brazil has a short history of national competitions, with the modern Campeonato Brasileiro starting in 1971 supported by the military regime and only made possible due to the improvements in civil aviation and air transport. The CBF does not officially recognize the Torneio Rio – São Paulo or Taça Brasil as national titles. In 2010, the CBF officially recognized the expanded Torneio Roberto Gomes Pedrosa from 1967 to 1970 as a legitimate national championship. In the era prior to officially recognized national competition, given that the majority of Brazil's strongest teams were located in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, some historians consider that up until 1959, despite its schedule irregularity, the Torneio Rio – São Paulo was the most prestigious title for any team to claim outside of state championships.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2002, the Torneio Rio – São Paulo champions were granted qualification to the Copa dos Campeões.\n\nThe Torneio Quinela de Ouro was a competition similar to the Rio – São Paulo. It was only contested in 1942, by five clubs, which are Corinthians, Flamengo, Fluminense, Palestra Itália and São Paulo. Corinthians won the competition, and Flamengo was the runner-up.\n\nIn 1993, a competition similar to the Rio – São Paulo was contested. The competition included the following clubs: América, Bangu, Olaria and Americano, from Rio de Janeiro state, and Guarani, Bragantino, Mogi Mirim and União São João from São Paulo state. Mogi Mirim won the competition, and Bangu was the runner-up.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898421", "title": "Rauni (deity)", "text": "Rauni (deity)\n\nRauni is a name for a being in Finnish mythology. The exact role and identity of Rauni is debated, and theories range from Rauni having been a mother goddess and consort of Ukko to being identified with Ukko himself.\n\nThe opinion among scholars concerning the role of Rauni in Finnish mythology is varied. Some Rauni interpret as a name for the consort of Ukko, the Finnish god of thunder. Some also identify Rauni with the rowan tree, citing the reconstructed Old Norse form \"*raunir\" (English: \"rowan\") as linguistic evidence. Others still, among them Martti Haavio, contend that Rauni is simply an epithet for a deity called Ukko, who may or may not be the well-known Finnish thunder god, and that the other theories are based on misreading a poem documenting Finnish Pre-Christian belief authored by Mikael Agricola.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898427", "title": "Elliott–Halberstam conjecture", "text": "Elliott–Halberstam conjecture\n\nIn number theory, the Elliott–Halberstam conjecture is a conjecture about the distribution of prime numbers in arithmetic progressions. It has many applications in sieve theory. It is named for Peter D. T. A. Elliott and Heini Halberstam, who stated the conjecture in 1968.\n\nStating the conjecture requires some notation. Let formula_1, the prime counting function, denote the number of primes less than or equal to formula_2. If formula_3 is a positive integer and formula_4 is coprime to formula_3, we let formula_6 denote the number of primes less than or equal to formula_2 which are equal to formula_4 modulo formula_3. Dirichlet's theorem on primes in arithmetic progressions then tells us\nthat\n\nwhere formula_11 is Euler's totient function. If we then define the error function\n\nwhere the max is taken over all formula_4 coprime to formula_3, then the Elliott–Halberstam conjecture is the assertion that\nfor every formula_15 and formula_16 there exists a constant formula_17 such that\n\nfor all formula_19.\n\nThis conjecture was proven for all formula_20 by Enrico Bombieri and A. I. Vinogradov (the Bombieri–Vinogradov theorem, sometimes known simply as \"Bombieri's theorem\"); this result is already quite useful, being an averaged form of the generalized Riemann hypothesis. It is known that the conjecture fails at the endpoint formula_21.\n\nThe Elliott–Halberstam conjecture has several consequences. One striking one is the result announced by Dan Goldston, János Pintz, and Cem Yıldırım, which shows (assuming this conjecture) that there are infinitely many pairs of primes which differ by at most 16. In November 2013, James Maynard showed that subject to the Elliott–Halberstam conjecture, one can show the existence of infinitely many pairs of consecutive primes that differ by at most 12. In August 2014, Polymath group showed that subject to the generalized Elliott–Halberstam conjecture, one can show the existence of infinitely many pairs of consecutive primes that differ by at most 6. Without assuming any form of the conjecture, the lowest proven bound is 246.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898431", "title": "Rauni, Ludhiana", "text": "Rauni, Ludhiana\n\nRauni (population 5000) is a village in the Ludhiana District of Punjab, India.\n"}
{"id": "1898435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898435", "title": "Sudirman Cup", "text": "Sudirman Cup\n\nThe Sudirman Cup is the world mixed team badminton championship which takes place every two years. It is held in the same venue for the IBF World Championships in the same year until International Badminton Federation decided to split the two tournaments starting from 2003. There are five matches in every Sudirman Cup tie which consists of men and women's singles, men and women's doubles and mixed doubles. The cup is named after Dick Sudirman, a former Indonesian badminton player and the founder of the Badminton Association of Indonesia (PBSI). The first Sudirman Cup tournament took place in Istora Senayan, Jakarta, Indonesia on 24-29 May 1989.\n\nThere is no prize money in Sudirman Cup; players play for their respective countries and to earn BWF world ranking points and national prestige.\n\nThe Sudirman Cup stands 80 cm high. It is made of 22 carat (92%) gold-plated solid silver and stands on an octagonal base made of jati wood (Java teak wood). The body of the Cup is in the form of a shuttlecock and is surmounted by a replica of the Borobudur Temple. The handles are in the shape of stamens, symbolising the seeds of badminton.\n\nThe Cup was made by Masterix Bandung Company at the price of US$15,000.\n\nThe Sudirman Cup is an international competition that does not stage a qualification round. The competing teams are divided into 7 groups based on their performances. Only teams in Group 1 will have a chance to lift the trophy as the teams in other groups fight for promotion. Only six teams compete in Group 1 until 2003 before it is increased to 8 in 2005 and later to 12 teams in 2011.\n\nOriginally, the teams who finish last in the group were relegated to the lower group for the next edition, except the final group. The promotion-relegation system was last used in 2009, and teams competing are now grouped by world rankings.\n\nIndonesia initially won the tournament in 1989. Throughout the history of the tournament, eight countries have reached through to the semifinal round in all tournaments of Sudirman Cup: China, Denmark, England, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and Japan.\n\nChina is the most successful national team in the Sudirman Cup (11 victories), followed by Korea (4 victories) and Indonesia (1 victory). The Cup has never been won by a non-Asian country, Denmark is the only European country that came close to winning it, in 1999 and 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898436", "title": "Jimmy Little", "text": "Jimmy Little\n\nJames Oswald Little, AO (1 March 19372 April 2012) was an Australian Aboriginal musician, actor and teacher from the Yorta Yorta people and was raised on the Cummeragunja Reserve, New South Wales.\n\nFrom 1951 he had a career as a singer-songwriter and guitarist, which spanned six decades. For many years he was the main Aboriginal star on the Australian music scene. His music was influenced by Nat King Cole and American country music artist Jim Reeves. His gospel song \"Royal Telephone\" (1963) sold over 75,000 copies and his most popular album, \"Messenger\", peaked at No. 26 in 1999 on the ARIA Albums Chart.\n\nAt the ARIA Music Awards of 1999 Little was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame and won an ARIA Award for Best Adult Contemporary Album. On Australia Day (26 January) 2004, he was made an Officer of the Order of Australia with the citation, \"For service to the entertainment industry as a singer, recording artist and songwriter and to the community through reconciliation and as an ambassador for Indigenous culture\".\n\nAs an actor, he appeared in the films \"Shadow of the Boomerang\" (1960) and \"Until the end of the World\" (1991), in the theatre production \"Black Cockatoos\" and in the opera \"Black River\". As a teacher, from 1985, he worked at the Eora Centre in Redfern and from 2000 was a guest lecturer at the University of Sydney's Koori Centre.\n\nIn 1958 Little married Marjorie Rose Peters and they had a daughter, Frances Claire Peters-Little. Little was a diabetic with a heart condition and, in 2004, had a kidney transplant. After his transplant he established the Jimmy Little Foundation to promote indigenous health and diet. Marjorie died in July 2011. On 2 April 2012, Little died at his home in Dubbo, aged 75 years.\n\nJames Oswald Little was born on 1 March 1937, a member of the Yorta Yorta people with his mother, Frances, a Yorta Yorta woman and his father, James Little Sr, from the Yuin people. Little's totem is the long-necked turtle. Jimmy Little Sr. was a tap dancer, comedian, musician and singer who led his own vaudeville troupe along the Murray River during the 1930s and 1940s. His mother was a singer and yodeller who had joined Jimmy Sr.'s troupe.\n\nLittle grew up, the eldest of seven children, on the Cummeragunja Aboriginal Reserve on the Murray River in New South Wales, about from Echuca in Victoria. Little later recalled his upbringing, \"[my parents] taught me well about the value of life, freedom, love, respect, all those basic things that we need. As Vaudevillians, I loved them. It was part of my dream to follow in the footsteps of Mum and Dad. And I'm so proud that I was able to do that\". He became a devout non-denominational Christian. He is an uncle of writer, soprano, and composer Deborah Cheetham and older brother of the late Aboriginal author and singer-songwriter Betty Little. In February 1939, about 200 to 300 members of the mission participated in the Cummeragunja walk-off – in protest at the low standard living conditions. The Little family moved to his father's tribal land (near Wallaga Lake) and lived for some years on the New South Wales south coast at Nowra and Moruya.\n\nNot long after moving, Frances died from a tetanus infection after cutting her finger on an oyster shell. At the age of 13 Little was given a guitar and within a year he was playing at local concerts. When 16 years old he travelled to Sydney to perform on a radio programme, \"Australia's Amateur Hour\". In 1955 Little left home to live in Sydney and pursue a career in country music, he was influenced by Nat King Cole, Johnny Mathis and Jim Reeves. His mellow style earned him the nicknames of \"the Balladeer\", \"Gentleman Jim\" and \"the Honey Voice\".\n\nIn 1956, Little signed with Regal Zonophone Records and released his first single, \"Mysteries of Life\"/\"Heartbreak Waltz\". In 1958, Little married fellow singer, Marjorie Rose Peters. By late 1959, Little was living in Granville with his wife and their daughter Frances Claire – he released the single, \"Frances Claire\", when she was 18 months-old. It was issued on EMI's Columbia label and was soon followed by \"Give the Coloured Boy a Chance\", which had been written by his father – the first song released in Australia referring to indigenous issues and first both written and recorded by indigenous musicians. He worked at a towelling factory and supplemented his income with performances at concerts and dances, and TV appearances on \"Bandstand\". Little signed with Festival Records and in September 1959, he had his first charting single, \"Danny Boy\", from the extended play, \"Jimmy Little Sings Ballads with a Beat\", which peaked at No. 9 in Sydney.\n\nIn February 1960, his next single was \"El Paso\", which reached No. 12 in Sydney. Little made his acting debut in the Billy Graham evangelical feature film \"Shadow of the Boomerang\" the same year. Little had the role of Johnny, a devout stockman on a cattle station where his American employer's son Bob refers to him as \"that nigger\". After Johnny dies, while saving Bob's life, from being gored by a wild boar, Bob has a religious conversion to Graham's cause. Little issued the title song as a single backed by \"Little by Little\". In September 1961, he appeared on the radio program, \"Col Joye Show\", with fellow \"Bandstand\" regulars, Patsy Ann Noble and Judy Stone. By 1962, Little joined a touring stage production, \"All Coloured Show\" produced by Ted Quigg, and gained wider public exposure. In July 1963, he toured north west New South Wales with Rob E.G., Noleen Batley and Lonnie Lee and was personally booked out till November.\n\nIn October 1963, after 17 singles, Little issued his biggest hit with the gospel song, \"Royal Telephone\", based upon the Burl Ives' version. In November it peaked at No. 1 in Sydney and No. 3 in Melbourne. The following month \"Australian Women's Weekly\"s music writer, Bob Rogers described it as \"a sincere ballad with a religious feeling\" and that \"[i]n only three weeks the record was rising to the top all over Australia, one of the fastest-selling records of the year\". It was awarded 3× Gold certification by Festival Records and \"Best Male Vocal Disk\" (1963) in \"The Tunetable Awards\", Australia's first disk awards from a major radio source for home-produced disks. In March 1964 the Barry Gibb-penned \"One Road\" reached No. 19 in Sydney and No. 30 in Melbourne. Gibb was 17 years old when he wrote \"One Road\" and Little became one of the first artists to record a Gibb song. The magazine \"Everybody's\" named him Australian Pop Star of the Year. Little was backed by the Jimmy Little Trio which had an all-indigenous line-up of Cyril Green, Doug Peters and Neville Thorn.\n\nLittle's final hit of the era came in September 1974 with \"Baby Blue\" which peaked at No. 8 in Melbourne and No. 37 in Sydney. Further non-charting singles were released until 1978's \"Beautiful Woman\". From the end of the 1970s, Little turned from his musical career to focus on his family and becoming qualified as a teacher.\n\nBy the 1980s Little had turned to full-time acting, making his theatre debut in \"Black Cockatoos\" before appearing in director Wim Wenders' 1991 film \"Until the end of the World\". As well as appearing in Tracy Moffatt's \"Night Cries\" and Andrew Schultz's opera \"Black River\", his teaching and community work earned him the title of NAIDOC Aboriginal of the Year in 1989. After winning that award Little returned to working in the music industry.\n\nIn 1992, Little performed at the Tamworth on Parade and Kings of Country roadshows before releasing his 14th album, \"Yorta Yorta Man\", in 1994. The same year, he was inducted into Australian Roll of Renown, the highest honour an Australian country music artist can achieve.\n\n\"Messenger\", a collection of contemporary songs reinterpreted through Little's smooth vocals, was released in June 1999 and peaked at No. 26 nationally, selling over 20,000 copies. It had been organised by Brendan Gallagher (from Karma County) and featured covers of well-known songs by Australian artists: \"(Are You) The One I've Been Waiting For?\" by Nick Cave, \"The Way I Made You Feel\" by Ed Kuepper and \"Randwick Bells\" by Paul Kelly.\n\nAt the ARIA Music Awards of 1999 \"Messenger\" won Best Adult Contemporary Album and Little was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame. At The Deadly Awards of 1999 – the annual Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Music Awards – he won Best Male Artist of the Year and Best Single Release of the Year. By 2001 \"Messenger\" was certified by ARIA with a gold record for shipments of 35,000 units.\n\nLittle returned in September 2001 with \"Resonate\", an album featuring songs written by Paul Kelly, Don Walker, Bernard Fanning (from Powderfinger), Brendan Gallagher and Dave Graney. In 2002 Little won the Golden Gospel Award at the Australian Gospel Music Awards for his lifetime support of Australian gospel music. He also sang \"Happy Day' with Olivia Newton-John that year. In 2000 he was a guest of The Wiggles on their children's DVD \"Wiggly Wiggly World\".\n\nLittle released the album \"Down the Road\" for ABC Country in 2003. In 2004 he released his 34th album, \"Life's What You Make It\", a collection of distinctive and poignant versions of songs by contemporary artists as diverse as the Red Hot Chili Peppers, U2, PJ Harvey, Neil Young, Brian Wilson, Elvis Costello and Bruce Springsteen.\n\nIn 2010 Little retired from performing. On 2 April 2012 Little died of natural causes in Dubbo, aged 75 years.\n\nFrom 1985 Little taught and mentored indigenous music students at the Eora Centre in Redfern and from 2002 he was an ambassador for literacy and numeracy for the Department of Education. Since 2000 Little was a guest lecturer at the University of Sydney's Koori Centre.\n\nAt the 1997 Mo Awards, Little was awarded the John Campbell Fellowship for \"an outstanding contribution to the community beyond his normal career in the entertainment industry\".\n\nOn Australia Day (26 January) 2004, Little was made an Officer of the Order of Australia with the citation, \"For service to the entertainment industry as a singer, recording artist and songwriter and to the community through reconciliation and as an ambassador for Indigenous culture\". Also that year he was named a Living National Treasure. In June 2005, on the last day of National Reconciliation Week, Little and composer Peter Sculthorpe were awarded honorary doctorates in music by the University of Sydney in recognition of \"their joint contribution to reconciliation between indigenous and non-indigenous Australians\". Other honorary doctorates have been awarded to Little by Queensland University of Technology and Australian Catholic University.\n\nLittle was diagnosed with kidney failure and, in 2004, after two years of self-administered dialysis he received a life-saving kidney transplant. The experience led him to launch the Jimmy Little Foundation in 2006 to help the many other indigenous Australians who are succumbing to kidney disease. The foundation works with patients in regional and remote Australia and partnered with the Fred Hollows Foundation in 2009 to develop a nutrition and education program for indigenous children to reduce the cycle of bad nutrition leading to diabetes which can lead to kidney failure.\n\nAt the APRA Awards of 2010 Little was awarded the Ted Albert Award for 'Outstanding Services to Australian Music'. \"Royal Telephone\" was featured on the SBS documentary, \"Buried Country: The Story of Aboriginal Country Music\" (2000) and its accompanying CD.\n\nActor and musician Michael Tuahine proposed a play based on the life of Jimmy Little. The play was written by Reg Cribb and called \"Country Song\"; it won the 2013 Rodney Seaborn Playwright's Award for New Work. It was performed by the Queensland Theatre Company in the Cremorne Theatre at the Queensland Performing Arts Centre in August 2015.\n\nIn 1958 Little married fellow singer, Marjorie Rose Peters and they had one child, Frances Claire Peters-Little (born ca. March 1958), who is a documentary film-maker, writer and historian. In 1990 Little was diagnosed with kidney disease, \"Unfortunately, I didn't get check-ups often enough or soon enough to realise the possibility that my kidneys could fail\". In 2002 he was diagnosed with kidney failure and was placed on dialysis and, in 2004, had a kidney transplant. As a result of immunosuppressants Little developed type 2 diabetes. He also developed a heart condition. Marjorie Rose Little died on 25 July 2011, aged 74, in Dubbo – she had been under medical care since early that year for an unspecified illness. On 2 April 2012 Little died at his home in Dubbo, aged 75 years. He is survived by his daughter, Frances, and his grandson, James Henry Little. In 2005 Little told Peter Thompson, on the ABC-TV program \"Talking Heads\", how he would like to be remembered, \"I just want people to remember me as a nice person who was fair-minded and had a bit of talent that put it to good use.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898437", "title": "Lozenge (heraldry)", "text": "Lozenge (heraldry)\n\nThe lozenge in heraldry is a diamond-shaped charge (an object that can be placed on the field of the shield), usually somewhat narrower than it is tall. It is to be distinguished in modern heraldry from the fusil, which is like the lozenge but narrower, though the distinction has not always been as fine and is not always observed even today. A mascle is a voided lozenge—that is, a lozenge with a lozenge-shaped hole in the middle—and the rarer rustre is a lozenge containing a circular hole in the centre. A field covered in a pattern of lozenges is described as lozengy; similar fields of mascles are masculy, and fusils, fusily (see Variation of the field). In civic heraldry, a lozenge sable is often used in coal-mining communities to represent a lump of coal.\n\nA lozenge shaped escutcheon is used to depict heraldry for a female (in continental Europe especially an unmarried woman), but is also sometimes used as a shape for mural monuments in churches which commemorate females. Funerary hatchments are generally shown within lozenge shaped frames, for both male and female deceased.\n\nThe blason \"Lozengy\" is a form of variation of the field or of another charge (for example \"a chevron lozengy\") which consists of lozenges \"semée\", or sown like seeds (Latin: \"semen\", a seed), or strewn across the field, but in an organised contiguous pattern. The arms granted to the Canadian John Francis Cappucci bring an example of \"lozengy voided\", the same as \"lozengy\" but with a smaller lozenge-shaped hole cut out of each segment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898443", "title": "Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railway (1846–1917)", "text": "Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railway (1846–1917)\n\nThe Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railroad (CH&D) was a railroad based in the U.S. state of Ohio that existed between its incorporation on March 2, 1846, and its acquisition by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in December 1917. (This railroad should not be confused with the Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Railway, an Ohio interurban of exactly the same name which existed between 1926 and 1930.) It was originally chartered to build from Cincinnati to Hamilton, Ohio, and then to Dayton, a distance of ; further construction and acquisition extended the railroad, and by 1902 it owned or controlled of railroad. Its stock and bond value plunged in late 1905 after \"financial mismanagement of the properties\" was revealed.\n\nThe original CH&D was founded by John Alexander Collins, who was born on June 8, 1815 in Staffordshire, England. He came to the US as a child in 1825, and worked as a locomotive engineer until moving to Ohio in 1851 to open the CH&D. Collins remained with the line until 1872, six years before his death in Covington, Kentucky. Collins is buried in Woodland Cemetery in Dayton, where his tombstone details his life and its work.\n\nOn May 1, 1863, the CH&D leased the Dayton and Michigan Railroad in perpetuity. In 1891, it acquired the Cincinnati, Dayton and Chicago Railroad, while in March of that year it added the Cincinnati, Dayton and Ironton Railroad.\n\nIn 1886 the CH&D was among the railroads controlled by the financial speculator Henry S. Ives before his spectacular collapse the following year.\n\nThe Dayton and Michigan was the second railroad to reach Lima, Ohio, reaching there in 1858. By 1880, they had established a significant shop facility on the north side of town with over two hundred employees. The Detroit and Michigan had a freight depot west of the tracks and south of East North Street, between North Central Avenue (once Tanner Street) and North Jackson Street. Successor CH&D built a larger structure on the site, which continued to be used by the Baltimore and Ohio at least into the 1950s. The passenger depot followed a similar pattern, but was located farther north, between East Wayne Street and the Pennsylvania Railroad tracks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898449", "title": "Noureddine Naybet", "text": "Noureddine Naybet\n\nNoureddine Naybet (; born 10 February 1970) is a Moroccan retired footballer who played as a central defender.\n\nHe spent most of his 17-year professional career with Deportivo, appearing in 284 competitive games and winning four major titles, including the 2000 national championship. He also competed in France, Portugal and England.\n\nNaybet played a record 115 matches for the Moroccan national team, representing the country in two World Cups and six Africa Cup of Nations tournaments.\n\nBorn in Casablanca, Naybet started playing with local Wydad, being part of the squads that won three Botola championships as well as the 1992 edition of the CAF Champions League. From 1993 to 1996 he represented FC Nantes (France) and Sporting Clube de Portugal, being always an important first-team member and winning one domestic cup in each country.\n\nIn the 1996 summer Naybet signed a four-year deal with Spain's Deportivo de La Coruña, for roughly €1.6 million. He made his La Liga debut on 31 August 1996, playing the full 90 minutes in a 1–1 home draw against Real Madrid.\n\nNaybet scored a career best four goals in the 1997–98 season, but the Galicians could only finish in 12th position. He was still an undisputed starter in 1999–2000 – often partnering Argentine Gabriel Schürrer – as the club conquered the first league in its history.\n\nNaybet started in all his 13 UEFA Champions League appearances in the 2003–04 campaign, helping \"Dépor\" to the semi-finals of the competition. In the last-four's second leg, at home against FC Porto, he was sent off by Pierluigi Collina after two bookable offenses, and the tie ended 1–0 in favour of the Portuguese.\n\nOn 12 August 2004, aged 34, Naybet joined Tottenham Hotspur for a reported fee of £700,000. He netted his first and only goal for the Spurs on 13 November, in a 4–5 North London derby loss to Arsenal at White Hart Lane.\n\nAfter only three games in 2005–06, under new manager Martin Jol, Naybet was released and retired from football. In June 2005, however, he had renewed his contract for a further season.\n\nNaybet was a Moroccan international for 16 years, gaining his first cap on 9 August 1990 in a 0–0 friendly draw in Tunisia. He proceeded to appear for his country in two FIFA World Cups, playing two games in 1994 and three in 1998 as both editions ended in group stage elimination.\n\nNaybet played all six contests in the 2004 African Cup of Nations, helping the Atlas Lions finish second in Tunisia. In early January 2006, five months after announcing his international retirement after falling out of favour with coach Ezzaki Badou, he returned to the national team just ahead of the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations.\n\nIn August 2007, Naybet was named assistant manager under Henri Michel.\n\nA devout Muslim, Naybet observed fasting during the month of Ramadan, even when it coincided with the football season.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898450", "title": "Opaque predicate", "text": "Opaque predicate\n\nIn computer programming, an opaque predicate is a predicate—an expression that evaluates to either \"true\" or \"false\"—for which the outcome is known by the programmer \"a priori\", but which, for a variety of reasons, still needs to be evaluated at run time. Opaque predicates have been used as watermarks, as it will be identifiable in a program's executable. They can also be used to prevent an overzealous optimizer from optimizing away a portion of a program. Another use is in obfuscating the control or dataflow of a program to make reverse engineering harder.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898455", "title": "Herbert Copeland", "text": "Herbert Copeland\n\nHerbert Faulkner Copeland (May 21, 1902 – October 15, 1968) was an American biologist who contributed to the theory of biological kingdoms. he grouped unicellular organisms into 2 large kingdoms: the Monera kingdom and the Protista kingdom. In 1966, he included bacteria and one of the most primitive algae, called blue green algae, under Monera kingdom.\n\nHis father was Edwin Copeland who was also the founder of the College of Agriculture at the University of the Philippines Los Banos and a leading pteridologist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898461", "title": "4x4 Evo", "text": "4x4 Evo\n\n4x4 Evo (also re-released as 4x4 Evolution) is a video game developed by Terminal Reality for the Windows, Macintosh, PlayStation 2 and Dreamcast platforms. It is one of the first console games to have cross-platform online play where Dreamcast, Macintosh and Windows versions of the game appear online at the same time. The game can use maps created by users to download onto a hard drive, as well as a Dreamcast VMU. All versions of the game are similar in quality and gameplay, although the online systems feature a mode to customize the players' own truck and use it online. The game is still online-capable on all systems except for PlayStation 2. This was Terminal Reality's only video game to be released for the Dreamcast. \n\nGameplay features off-road racing of over 70 licensed truck manufacturers. Modes featured in the game were a Career Mode, Online Mode, Map editor and versus mode. The career mode is the most important part of the game to feature a way to buy better trucks similar to the \"Gran Turismo\" series. The Career mode also gives the player 6 purpose built race vehicles: Chevrolet Trail Blazer Race SUV 2WD, Dodge Dakota Race Truck 4WD, Ford F-150 Race Truck 2WD, Mitsubishi Pajero Rally 4WD, Nissan Xterra Race SUV 4WD, and the Toyota Tundra Race Truck 2WD. They cost anywhere from $350,000 up to $850,000. These are the fastest vehicles in the game. Recently, KC Vale acquired permission from Terminal Reality Incorporated to upload the game to his web server; however, the original vehicles have been removed due to an expired license.\n\nAlthough this game was released about nineteen years ago, the online community still exists, with a fair number of players, and some moderators who manage chatrooms. Dedicated servers are long gone, but it is possible to host games over the internet, and join other player-hosted games.\nThe game has been brought back online thanks to Dreamcast Live , as one of the 16 games so far to be brought back online on the Dreamcast \n\nRob Smolka reviewed the Dreamcast version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Other than the online play, this arcade racer doesn't do anything special we haven't seen (and complained about) before.\"\n\nDavid Chen reviewed the PlayStation 2 version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"A competent racer with lots of options but a few too many significant flaws.\"\n\nIn the United States, \"4x4 Evolution\" sold 41,500 copies by October 2001. The game was met with positive to mixed reception. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 78% and 74 out of 100 for the Dreamcast version; 75% and 73 out of 100 for the PC version; and 65% and 64 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version.\n\n\"4x4 EVO 2\" was later released on Windows, Macintosh, Xbox, GameCube, and PlayStation 2. It features larger maps, denser terrain, and free-roaming environments. The game introduces Adventure Mission mode, where the player performs treasure hunts and rescue operations to obtain additional money.\n"}
{"id": "1898462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898462", "title": "Fraction (religion)", "text": "Fraction (religion)\n\nThe Fraction is the ceremonial act of breaking the consecrated bread during the Eucharistic rite in some Christian denominations. \n\nIn the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, it is accompanied by the singing or recitation of the Agnus Dei.\n\nThe \"General Instruction of the Roman Missal\", 83 states:\n\n\"The priest breaks the Eucharistic Bread, assisted, if the case calls for it, by the deacon or a concelebrant. Christ's gesture of breaking bread at the Last Supper, which gave the entire Eucharistic Action its name in apostolic times, signifies that the many faithful are made one body () by receiving Communion from the one Bread of Life which is Christ, who died and rose for the salvation of the world. The fraction or breaking of bread is begun after the sign of peace and is carried out with proper reverence, though it should not be unnecessarily prolonged, nor should it be accorded undue importance. This rite is reserved to the priest and the deacon. The priest breaks the Bread and puts a piece of the host into the chalice to signify the unity of the Body and Blood of the Lord in the work of salvation, namely, of the living and glorious Body of Jesus Christ.\"\n\nIn speaking of the bread to be used at Mass, \"the General Instruction\", 321 recommends that\n\"the eucharistic bread ... be made in such a way that the priest at Mass with a congregation is able in practice to break it into parts for distribution to at least some of the faithful. Small hosts are, however, in no way ruled out when the number of those receiving Holy Communion or other pastoral needs require it. The action of the fraction or breaking of bread, which gave its name to the Eucharist in apostolic times, will bring out more clearly the force and importance of the sign of unity of all in the one bread, and of the sign of charity by the fact that the one bread is distributed among the brothers and sisters.\"\n\nIn the restored Gallican Mass of the Western Orthodox Church, in which leavened bread is used exclusively, the fraction occurs immediately after the anaphora and prior to the Our Father with its introduction. This is slightly earlier than in other western rites, in which the fraction typically takes place at some point after the Our Father.\n\nThe method of the fraction varies from a simple breaking into pieces by hand to a more elaborate cutting with a liturgical knife known as a spear, as is commonly done in the Byzantine rite. The action is accompanied by the singing of a responsory drawn both from the Emmaus account in the Gospel of Luke (Luke 24:13-35) and a selection from the opening verses of chapter 9 of the Book of Proverbs.\n\n\"Wisdom has built her house; she has founded it on her seven pillars; she has sacrificed her victims, mingled her wine, and set her table.\"<br>\nThey recognised the Lord. Alleluia. In the breaking of the bread. Alleluia. Alleluia.<br>\n\"Come and eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mixed. Leave ignorance and you shall live.\"<br>\nThey recognised the Lord. Alleluia. In the breaking of the bread. Alleluia. Alleluia.<br>\n\"The bread which we break is the Body of the Lord; the cup which we bless is the Blood of the Lord: a sole and unique Mystery.\"<br>\nThey recognised the Lord. Alleluia. In the breaking of the bread. Alleluia. Alleluia.\n\nFrom Septuagesima until the end of Holy Week, the \"alleluia\" is omitted, and the responsory is sung more simply to Gregorian psalm tone 2.\n\nIn the churches of the Anglican Communion, the rite is similar to that practised in the Roman Catholic Church, and consists of the priest breaking the Host in half and making an exclamation, such as, \"We break this bread to share in the body of Christ\", and the faithful making a response, such as, \"Though we are many we are one body, because we all share in one bread\" The response may change during certain liturgical seasons, or according to the rite being celebrated. A Fraction Anthem may be sung or spoken during the rite.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches of the Byzantine rite, leavened bread is used for the Eucharist. The round loaves, or prosphora, are stamped so that a Greek cross is in the center, with the letters \"IC XC NI-KA\" (Greek for \"Jesus Christ conquers\") occupying the quarters formed by the cross' arms. The square portion occupied by this stamp, the \"Lamb\", is cut out before the Divine Liturgy during the preparatory rite and is the only part consecrated during the Epiclesis. As part of the Liturgy of Preparation, the priest cuts the Lamb part way through crosswise into four sections from the bottom, leaving the bread united by the stamped crust on top.\n\nAt the Fraction, which follows the Lord's Prayer and the Elevation, the celebrant breaks the Lamb into four portions along the cuts already made, as he says the words: \"Broken and divided is the Lamb of God, which is broken and not disunited, which is ever eaten and never consumed, but sanctifieth those that partake thereof.\" He then arranges the four pieces crosswise on the edge of the diskos (paten). On the invitation of the deacon, \"Fill, Master, the holy chalice,\" the celebrant takes the piece with the letters \"IC\" and places it into the chalice saying, \"The fulness of the cup, of the faith, of the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nThe portion with the letters \"XC\" is used for the communion of the clergy. The two portions \"NI\" and \"KA\" are divided into small pieces and placed in the chalice for the communion of the people. The portion \"IC\" is not used for communion, but is consumed by the deacon along with any other consecrated elements left over at the end of the Liturgy (see Ablution in Christianity).\n"}
{"id": "1898466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898466", "title": "Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railway (1926–1930)", "text": "Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railway (1926–1930)\n\nThe Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railway (CH&DRy) was an electric interurban railway that existed between 1926 and 1930 in the U.S. state of Ohio. It was absorbed in 1930 into the new Cincinnati and Lake Erie interurban railway. In typical interurban fashion, in open country it had its own right of way, although this was often adjacent and parallel to a road. In cities and towns it operated on city streets. This included two and three car freight/express trains as well as passenger cars.\n\nIn 1926, the former Cincinnati and Dayton Traction Company was reorganised under the new name Cincinnati, Hamilton, and Dayton. The C&DTC right-of-way was part of the former Ohio Electric Railway's line between Dayton and Cincinnati. This new interurban company (which had no relationship with the steam railroad of the same name which eventually was absorbed by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad) was headed by a former Univ of Penn Wharton School professor of finance, Dr. Thomas Conway, Jr., who had already been successful in reviving the interurban Chicago, Aurora, and Elgin Railroad. He ordered badly needed all steel interurban coaches , box-motor express cars and freight cars, and spent heavily to improve track and right-of-way, although the original 1900s rails laid within the brick streets of the cities and towns such as Dayton remained a maintenance problem and were a source of constant arguments with township administrations. Not only were the towns unhappy about who was to pay for street repairs and snow removal, they complained about the long and heavy interurban cars mixing in with growing 1920s automobile traffic. Conway did well at building up the CH&D freight business utilizing his new interurban freight equipment which often was operated at night, and by virtue of his wide contacts in the railroad industry was more than ordinarily successful in establishing through rates for LCL (less-than-boxcar load freight) with some steam railroads, not an easy thing to accomplish for an interurban. Conway believed that there was still a place for the interurban in medium distance passenger traffic and longer distance LCL freight, and thus conceived the idea of the CH&D.\n\nThree problems worried CH&D management: that the CH&D's neighboring interurban lines might stop running due to financial problems and break their vital freight interchange with the CH&D; that more and more towns were restricting the operation of freight trains over their streets to nighttime only; that interest payments on the very large CH&D bonded debt of $1.3 million borrowed in 1926 could not be met through operating revenue. 1926 was a time when many people earned between $1000 and $2000 a year, and a good dinner could be purchased for fifty cents.\n\nIn 1930, just as the Great Depression was starting but no one knew how bad it would be, Conway purchased and merged his profitable CH&D with two essential connecting interurbans Indiana, Columbus and Eastern, and the Lima-Toledo Railroad, to form the Cincinnati and Lake Erie Railroad. This new line now connected Cincinnati in southern Ohio with Toledo in northern Ohio. Conway then borrowed even more money ($3.7 million in bonds and new corporate stock) and ordered more new equipment, including the innovative light weight aluminum body high speed passenger car \"Red Devils\" from the Cincinnati Car Company. With two other vitally important for C&LE survival interurban connections at Toledo, the new C&LE provided through interurban passenger and freight service east to Cleveland (Lake Shore Electric) and north to Detroit (Eastern Michigan Railway). The Red Devils operated directly from Cincinnati to Detroit for a while. Freight trains running from Cincinnati through Dayton and Toledo to Cleveland provided the longest continuous and same equipment interurban freight service to ever existing in the United States. Although each year the C&LE shipped more and more freight, the only year that it was profitable was 1936, The accelerating collapse of the American economy through the late 1930s led to further C&LE financial losses and a steady decline in operations. The two essential Toledo connecting interurban lines closed due to bankruptcy, the Detroit connection earlier in 1932, and the more important for freight Cleveland connection in 1938, and the C&LE was doomed. It abandoned in 1939.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898480", "title": "The Whole World's Dancing", "text": "The Whole World's Dancing\n\nThe Whole World's Dancing is the sixth studio album by American soul-disco group, The Trammps, released in 1979 through Atlantic Records.\n\nThe album peaked at No. 184 on the \"Billboard\" 200. The album features the single \"Soul Bones\", which peaked at No. 91 on the Hot Soul Singles chart.\n\n\n\nAlbum\nSingles\n"}
{"id": "1898482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898482", "title": "Sarajevo school of pop rock", "text": "Sarajevo school of pop rock\n\nThe Sarajevo school of pop rock collectively refers to the popular music created between 1960 and 1991 by artists and bands native to Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina (then part of Yugoslavia).\n\nThe music created in this period helped create a distinct identity for modern Sarajevo and make the city the center of Yugoslav rock. The regional influence of the Sarajevo pop rock school has been tremendous, significantly shaping the popular music of the former Yugoslav republics to this day. The start of the Yugoslav wars and the siege of Sarajevo are generally considered to mark the end of the era.\n\nThe roots of the movement can be found in the 1960s when some of the first local bands, such as Indexi and Pauci, first appeared. By the 1970s, the Sarajevo scene had grown considerably while still retaining the same central figures at the helm. Sarajevo bands such as Bijelo dugme influenced heavily by progressive and classical rock bands such as Deep Purple and Led Zeppelin, soon became idols of the country's youth.\n\nUnlike elsewhere, the movement was not slowed down by the punk rock explosion of the late 1970s. Rather, older bands diversified, exploring genres such as pop and folk, while the younger generation of musicians neatly incorporated themselves into the movement while building upon influences such as punk rock and new wave.\n\nNoted bands from the later period include Merlin, Plavi orkestar, Divlje jagode, Zabranjeno pušenje, Crno Vino and Crvena jabuka.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898493", "title": "Copa dos Campeões", "text": "Copa dos Campeões\n\nCopa dos Campeões (Portuguese for Brazilian Champions Cup) was a Brazilian football competition, organized by the Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF), contested by the best teams from each one of the regional cups.\n\nThe Copa dos Campeões winner was automatically qualified to following year's Copa Libertadores.\n\nIn 1968, Grêmio Maringá won a similar competition, named Torneio dos Campeões da CBD.\n\nThese were the regional cups that granted qualification to the Copa dos Campeões:\n\n\nIn 2000, and in 2001, the competition was contested by eight clubs, in a two-leg playoff system. There was a preliminary stage called \"triangular\", disputed by the champions of Copa Centro-Oeste and Copa Norte, and the Campeonato do Nordeste runner-up. Those teams played against each other once, and the two best teams qualified to the first stage.\n\nIn 2002, the competition was contested by sixteen clubs. In the first stage, the clubs were divided in four groups of four teams each. The two best placed clubs of each group qualified to the quarterfinals, which was disputed in two legs. The semifinals were disputed in one leg, and the final was disputed in two legs. All matches were played in cities located in Northeastern and Northern cities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898495", "title": "Dick Sudirman", "text": "Dick Sudirman\n\nDick Sudirman (29 April 1922 - 10 June 1986) was a former Indonesian badminton player.\n\nHe was also the founder of Badminton Association of Indonesia (PBSI) as well as its chairman for 22 years (1952–1963 and 1967–1981). He was also the vice president of IBF in 1975.\n\nHis surname \"Sudirman\" is used for the Sudirman Cup, the world mixed team badminton championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898516", "title": "War and Beauty", "text": "War and Beauty\n\nWar and Beauty () is a Hong Kong television period drama serial that originally aired on TVB Jade from 23 August to 2 October 2004, consisting of 30 episodes. It currently ties with Drive of Life for the record of having the most TVB Best Actress winners, including Sheren Tang (2009/2010), Maggie Cheung (2003), Charmaine Sheh (2006/2014), and Gigi Lai (2004 - she won the award for her work in this drama). It also stars TVB Best Actor winners Bowie Lam (2004 - he also won the award for his work in this drama) and Moses Chan (2007). It received widespread praise among critics and audiences for the acting and plot. It continues to remain one of the most popular and talked about TVB dramas.\n\nThis show was set in the Forbidden City, in Qing dynasty China in the late years of the Jiaqing Emperor's rule. It focused on the power struggle between various royal concubines trying to secure the Emperor's favor, with corruption, intrigue and outright deceit being the weapons of choice. These women were willing to manipulate, betray and even kill just about anyone in order to get what they wanted.\n\nThroughout the later parts of the series, the inevitable results of this corruption become increasingly apparent. The main characters start to lose everything they care for, while being forced to conclude that they have only themselves to blame. In the meantime, corruption takes its toll on the outside world as well: the entire empire is destabilizing.\n\nAt the end of the series, many things come to a head. As the corruption of Qing politics became all the more prevalent, the people of the country organize an armed rebellion. The rebellion was led by Kong-Wu's fraternal brother, Chen Shuang, who felt wronged during his time in the Palace and is seeking revenge. The rebel invasion of the Palace opened up some interesting opportunities, especially for the Empress, who tried to kill off her opposition and blame it on the rebels.\n\nSun Bak-Yeung made an attempt to use the situation to escape with Yi-Sun and Yuk-Ying. However, Yuk-Ying was unwilling to go with them, and Sun Bak-Yeung made Kong-Wu promise that he will take Yi-Sun out of the Forbidden Palace. After dealing with that, Sun Baiyang went to Yuk-Ying residence to confront her. However the Empress was already aware of their affair, and while the two were in Yuk-Ying's residence, the Empress' guards boarded up the entrances and set it on fire, causing both to be burned alive. Sun Bak-Yeung's father, Sun Qinghwa, found out about his son's death when a raven carried his son's jade band and dropped it right in front of him as he waited for his son in the wilderness.\n\nOn-Seen, whose plan to exact revenge on the Empress for her grandmother's death was scuppered, hatched plans to leave the Palace with Kong-Wu and Yi-Sun, who had lost all will to live in the Palace after her adoptive father, Xu Wan Tian, died. At the same time, The Consort Yu (Yu-Yuet) was also invited to leave by the trio, but she refused to because she entered the Palace at the age of 16, and was unaccustomed to normal civilian life. Having survived an attack by several guards dressed up as rebels and having realized the true fate of Sun Bak-Yeung and Yuk-Ying, she went on to confront the Empress directly at her residence and appeared to regain her superior political position.\n\nAll was not over for the ones who successfully left. As the trio left the palace, On-seen was shot by a stray arrow, the wound from which she would die of soon afterward. Both sadly and romantically fitting, she died on Kong-Wu's shoulder while escaping in a horse cart. In the end, only Kong-Wu and Yi-Sun successfully left the palace and, as hinted by the film, started a new life.\n\nAmongst Hong Kong's office workers, the feuding and shifting alliances of the Imperial women, with greater issues being sacrificed for personal piques and gains was taken as a metaphor for the office politics familiar to many. The exploits of their characters were followed in minute detail in online forums, with each betrayal or stab in the back leading to flaming, denunciations, accusations and denials amongst the rival factions. It created a high rating just below War of the Genders.\n\nHowever, this is just a narrow interpretation of the themes present in the serial. In a broader sense, the theme of the serial, especially apparent toward the end, is that of oppressed femininity under the feudal hierarchy. For example, a plot line involves Kong-Wu finding a silk handkerchief with a poem embroidered on it. That poem, expressing the frustration of being trapped in the Forbidden City and the longing for life outside the palace, is later revealed to be written by Consort Yu. Even though Consort Yu has been characterized as power-thirsty and ruthless, the audience gets a glimpse into her deeper, more sincere sentiments. Given these sentiments, the fact that she still eventually chooses to stay behind in the palace shows the extent the Forbidden City, the epitome of the rigorous Chinese feudal system, shackles the women that live within it. There are many preconceptions and even myths about a place as exclusive as the Forbidden City. It is possible that the women in the serial are just behaving what they think they are supposed to behave—cunning, cruel, betraying—in order to secure their imperial status in such a place filled with taboos and restrictions. Feminine roles in feudal times are restricted, and they are even more so on the pinnacle of Chinese feudal hierarchy which is the Forbidden City.\n\nThe show was not without its critics. Many sociologists, psychologists, and academics have criticized the show as promoting hatred and backstabbing as a \"natural\" matter in society, and fears that the drama will twist the youth's perception of social relationships in general. However, many ordinary citizens simply believe the show was a reflection of the real world.\n\nWhen one such psychologist was asked about his views concerning the series, he stated \"I think we must remind ourselves that even if the intentions of this [War and Beauty] are represented as merely fictitious harm, we should still focus on this harm nonetheless, especially when its in respect to our youth\"\n\nHowever the creators and fans alike strongly deny such existence of 'harm', and that there are no such subliminal connotations behind the series.\n\nMy Favorite Actor in a Leading Role award went to Bowie Lam for his role as Suen Bak Yeung\n\nMy Favorite Actress in a Leading Role award went to Gigi Lai for her role as Yuk Ying\n\nMy Favorite Powerhouse Actress Award went to Sheren Tang for her role as Yu Yuet.\n\nMy Favorite Powerhouse Actor award went to Chan Hung Lit for his role as Suen Ching Wah.\n\nMy Favorite Television Character Award went to Sheren Tang, Bowie Lam, Charmaine Sheh, Moses Chan, Gigi Lai for their roles.\n\nThis drama is considered the best drama in TVB production in year 2004.\n\nThis drama also won the Most Favourite Drama in Astro Wah Lai Toi Drama Awards 2005.\n\nCharmaine Sheh acting as Yee Shun in War and Beauty won the Most Favourite Actress in Astro Wah Lai Toi Drama Awards 2005.\n\nAfter Sheren Tang won the TVB Best Actress award in 2009 and 2010, War and Beauty became the TVB drama with the most Best Actress winners. Other TVB Best Actress winners in the series are Maggie Cheung Ho-Yee, Gigi Lai, and Charmaine Sheh who won their respective Best Actress awards in 2003, 2004 and 2006 (and in 2014, second time win for Charmaine Sheh).\n\n\"War and Beauty\" was released on DVD and VCD a few months after its finale, and was a bestseller. It also became the first TVB drama to receive a DVD release, albeit a limited one. The DVD box was made of shiny gold cloth, with the drama's title woven on it with gold thread.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898531", "title": "History of New York City (1898–1945)", "text": "History of New York City (1898–1945)\n\nDuring the years of 1898–1945, New York City consolidated. New York City became the capital of national communications, trade, and finance, and of popular culture and high culture. More than one-fourth of the 300 largest corporations in 1920 were headquartered there.\n\nThe era began with the formation of the consolidated city of the five boroughs in 1898, with a total population of 3.4 million. New transportation links, especially the New York City Subway, opened in 1904, bound together the new metropolis. Increased immigration of unskilled Catholic and Jewish workers from Southern and Eastern Europe expanded the labor force until the World War ended immigration in 1914. Labor shortages during the war attracted African Americans from the Southeast, who headed north as part of the Great Migration. They sponsored the Harlem Renaissance of literature and culture celebrating the black experience.\n\nThe Roaring Twenties were years of glamour and wealth, highlighted by a construction boom, with skyscrapers built higher and higher in the famous skyline. New York's financial sector came to dominate the national and the world economies. The economy of New York City prospered after 1896, with a few short dips, until the decade-long Great Depression, which began with a Wall Street stock market crash in late 1929. The economy recovered by 1940 and flourished during the World War II years. The main bases of the economy were construction, ocean shipping, garments, machine tools, and printing. Labor unions rose and fell and rose again. New York boasted the nation's strongest financial system, a large upscale market for luxury goods, and a flourishing high culture based on many philanthropists, museums, galleries, universities, artists, writers, and publications.\n\nThe Democratic political machines in the boroughs generally controlled politics. However, they were finally overthrown in 1933 by reformers who elected and repeatedly re-elected Fiorello La Guardia. Heavy federal patronage helped convert the city into a stronghold of the New Deal Coalition and the model of heavy government spending on infrastructure.\n\nThe modern five boroughs, comprising the city of New York, were united in 1898. That year, the cities of New York—which then consisted of present-day Manhattan and the Bronx—and Brooklyn were both consolidated with the largely rural areas of Queens and Staten Island. The total population was 3.4 million in 1900, leaping to 5.6 million in 1920 and leveling off at 7.9 million in 1950. The population was highly diverse in terms of ethnicity, race, religion and class. The city went through an enormous growth in population, industry, and wealth. The major achievements included the building of the subway system by private enterprise. The city funded major new bridges between Manhattan and Brooklyn and Queens, which facilitated commuting and the rise of an industrial base in those boroughs. The city also expanded its port facilities, improved its traffic system, built hundreds of new elementary and high schools, and engaged in large-scale public health programs.\n\nThe politics of the consolidated city revolved around conflicts between the political machines and the reformers. In the quiet times, the machines had a solid core of supporters and usually exercised control of city and borough affairs; they also played a major role in the state legislature in Albany. Tammany Hall from the 1880s and onward built a strong network of local clubs that attracted ambitious middle-class ethnics. In times of crisis however, especially in the severe depressions of the 1890s and the 1930s, the reformers took control of key offices, notably the mayor's office. The reformers were never unified; they operated through a complex network of independent civic reform groups, each focusing its lobbying efforts on its own particular reform agenda. Membership included civic-minded, well-educated middle-class men and women, usually with expert skills in a profession or business, who deeply distrusted the corruption of the machines. Consolidation in 1898 multiplied the power of these reform groups, whenever they could agree on a common agenda such as consolidation itself.\nThere was no citywide machine. Instead, Democratic machines flourished in each of the boroughs, with Tammany Hall in Manhattan the most prominent. They typically had strong neighborhood organizations, known as \"political clubs\", as well as one prominent leader often called \"the boss\". Charles Murphy was the highly effective but quiet boss of Tammany Hall from 1902–1924. \"Big Tim\" Sullivan was the Tammany leader in the Bowery and the machine's spokesman in the state legislature. Republican local organizations were much weaker, but they played key roles in forming reform coalitions. Most of the time they looked to Albany and Washington, D.C., for their sphere of influence. Seth Low, the president of Columbia University, was elected the reform mayor in 1901. He lacked the common touch and lost much of his working class support when he listened to Prohibitionists eager to crack down on the liquor business.\n\nThe spirit of the progressive era infused New York politics, energizing the reformers with a condemnation of inefficiency, waste, and corruption. An emphasis was placed on expertise and scientific organization of large scale projects. Tammany Hall went along, under the new leadership of Charles Francis Murphy. It promoted a reform image itself, sponsored reformers as mayor, and downplayed overt forms of corruption, graft, and bribery. The Irish remained in control of Tammany, and the leadership had many opportunities for what Alderman George Washington Plunkett called \"honest graft\" such as an inside track to lucrative construction contracts without any stealing or committing illegal acts.\n\nThree reformers became mayor. Seth Low, prominent Brooklyn businessman, experienced politician, and president of Columbia University, united reformers and the Republicans in a fusion ticket that won the mayor's race in 1902. Tammany was back in 1904 with a prestigious reformer, George B. McClellan Jr., the son of the famous Civil War general and an experienced politician in his own right. William Jay Gaynor, reform judge, won the Tammany nomination in 1909. Fusion reformer John Purroy Mitchel, a favorite of President Woodrow Wilson, was elected in 1913. Mitchel had strong support from the progressives, enabling him to reorganize the bureaucracy, crackdown on vice, and make taxation more efficient. Mitchel's support for the Allies in the World War alienated Germans, and the working classes were alarmed at his plans for vocational education. He was defeated in 1917 by John Francis Hylan; Hylan was re-elected in 1921 and collaborated closely with Hearst until he was ousted by Al Smith and Tammany in 1925.\n\nTammany realized it needed reformers on the ticket, but it had a hard time working with them. It needed McClellan to run for re-election in 1905 to beat off the tremendous challenge by independent publisher William Randolph Hearst. But in 1906 Tammany cut a deal and supported Hearst for governor, so McClellan broke with the machine. Gaynor proved much more independent than expected and was denied renomination.\n\nThe municipal consolidation precipitated greater physical connections between the boroughs. The building of the New York City Subway opened with the first IRT line in 1904. Initially the Interborough Rapid Transit Company (IRT) and Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation (BMT) systems (with a third system, the Independent Subway System or IND, to be incorporated in 1925) were separate. They immediately became a force for further population spread and development.\n\nThe opening of the Williamsburg Bridge in 1903 and the Manhattan Bridge in 1909 further connected Manhattan to the rapidly expanding bedroom community in Brooklyn. The world-famous Grand Central Terminal opened as the world's largest train station on February 1, 1913, replacing an earlier terminal on the site. The Pennsylvania Station, a similarly large and grand railway station several blocks to the west that was torn down in 1963, had opened in 1910.\n\nEuropean immigration escalated exponentially during the early 20th century; the new arrivals were mostly Catholics or Jews, especially Italians and Poles as well as Yiddish-speaking Jews from Eastern Europe. There were smaller but steady streams of \"Old immigration\" sources in Ireland, Britain and Germany. The residents of Little Germany, in what is now the East Village, dispersed to more affluent neighborhoods and were replaced by growing numbers of poor immigrants on the Lower East Side.\nIn 1850 about a third of the 50,000 American Jews lived in New York; they spoke German (not Yiddish), were active in Reform congregations, and took major leadership roles in the city's banking financial, merchandising, and clothing industries. An entirely different group of 1.4 million poor Yiddish-speaking Jews from Russia and Eastern Europe fled pogroms and anti-Semitism between 1880 and 1914. Over one million lived in New York, where by 1910 they comprised a fourth of the city's population. Many became entrepreneurs setting up small shops; the majority operated sewing machines and worked in the city's many small clothing factories.\n\nViolent confrontations between ethnic groups were strikingly common. Local ethnic gangs controlled their neighborhood turfs and beat up boys who wandered across the line. Each ethnic group had violent youth gangs; Irish gangs were especially aggressive. One serious episode took place in 1902, when the procession of 25,000 to 50,000 Jews marching for the funeral of Jacob Joseph, the chief rabbi of the Orthodox community, passed the Hoe factory. They were attacked by workers or boys throwing debris from the factory windows. The Jews fought back and quickly had the factory and its 1,800 men and boys under siege, breaking all its windows. The (mostly Irish) police broke it up and beat many of the men attacking the factory. They arrested 11 of the Jews and 4 of the factory workers. Jewish oral tradition blamed the anti-Semitism of both the Irish factory workers and the police. However, recent historical research shows that the factory workers were mostly Germans, not Irish, and that the police were following standard practice in quelling a riot. On the whole, the police kept a tight lid on inter-group violence.\n\nProgressive Era reformers strongly promoted free public schooling through high school, on the assumption that ignorance was a waste and that learning developed the personality as well as skills needed in a modernizing society. Public school enrollment rose from 553,000 in 1900, to 1.1 million in 1930, and then declined a bit. The wide range of schools included elementary, junior high schools, as well as comprehensive, academic, and technical senior high schools. In addition, the system operated training schools in music the arts, science, cooking, the needle trades, printing, and the like, with special schools for handicapped children and a large evening program for adults. The availability of free public education through high school was especially attractive to poor Jewish immigrants who placed a high value on human capital.\n\nThe city's other ethnic groups, most notably the Italians, typically placed a much higher value on home ownership, which required boys and girls to start earning money by age 14 or so. In the Italian community, girls left school as soon as possible to work at home or to take factory jobs. The shift came in the 1930s, as more of them stayed in school, although at only half the rate of Jewish girls. Some historians argue that the Italians were becoming modernized by American culture; their families became less patriarchal and permitted more individualistic careerism for women. Historian Miriam Cohen, however, says that these more modern attitudes were caused by changing opportunities for all young women in New York.\n\nCatholic priests strongly recommended parochial schools at least for elementary students and were rapidly expanding the Catholic high school system, especially for German and Irish youth whose families had been in the city for decades. The Catholic school system grew from an enrollment of 79,000 in 1900, to 286,000 in 1930, peaking at 332,000 in 1960. Upscale private schools also flourished, as well as training schools for adults, such as the Arthur Murray School of Dancing and many music schools. Tens of thousands of adults took correspondence courses through the mail.\n\nJewish boys and young men thrived in the New York public schools. The problem came with girls attending high school. Jewish men still had doubts about educating girls, and poor families needed the money they could earn in full-time jobs. Those who came to America as young girls picked up English quickly, but the older they were on arrival, the harder the language appeared. Many young Jewish women nevertheless tried, opening their way to clerical and white-collar jobs. Probably most saw their dreams realized in their children rather than themselves.\n\nColumbia University developed an international reputation as a major research center in a wide range of the arts, sciences, humanities, and medical fields. New York University in 1890 was still primarily an undergraduate school with a strong Protestant flavor. However it began adding graduate programs, a law school and a medical school, as well as a graduate school of education and a business school. It became one of the nation's largest universities, with an enrollment of 9,300 in 1917 and 40,000 in 1931.\n\nFordham University took the lead among the Catholic colleges, adding a medical school, a law school, a business school, and other units. Its football team had a national reputation. Fordham became coeducational in 1964. In addition there were many smaller specialized schools such as Wagner College (Lutheran), Yeshiva University (Jewish), St. John's University (Catholic), Pratt Institute, Juilliard School of Music, Parsons School of Design, Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, and The New School for Social Research. There were numerous medical and law schools.\n\nThe city's Protestant elites sent their young men to university-preparatory schools in New England and then to Ivy League colleges, and their young women to the Seven Sisters colleges or to finishing schools. After 1900, Columbia had a reputation as heavily academic and was no longer attractive to upper-class young men. Jewish enrollment reached 40% at Columbia College in 1914; a quota system was installed to cut the proportion to 20%. The public universities, City College and Hunter College, were about 80% Jewish.\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, the city had 15 to 20 daily newspapers, and many weeklies. Most newspapers were sold at newsstands or hawked by newsboys, as opposed to subscriptions. The \"Wall Street Journal\" provided detailed coverage of business affairs. The \"New York Times\" had shrunk to almost nothing by the 1890s. However, after its purchase by Adolph Ochs of Knoxville, Tennessee, in 1896, it reached an upscale audience with unbiased and detailed news. There were numerous ethnic papers. The ethnic papers played a major role in keeping immigrants in touch with the old country. More important, they taught them how to become Americans and understand the complexity of American popular culture.\n\nStarting in 1895, William Randolph Hearst, a mining heir from San Francisco, challenged Joseph Pulitzer, from St. Louis, Missouri, for dominance on the newsstands. Both Hearst's \"Journal\" and Pulitzer's \"World\" favored the Democrats, and both sought to maximize their sales through yellow journalism with exclusives based on sensationalism, sports, sex and scandal, and features such as comic strips, puzzles, recipes, and advice columns. By 1898, both papers reached the million per day circulation level. Hearst became a leader of the left wing of the Democratic Party and was nearly elected mayor in 1905 and governor in 1906. He had bitter battles with Al Smith over control of the Democratic Party, losing out in 1925. He then moved his base to California. After enthusiastically supporting Franklin Roosevelt for president in 1932, he broke with Franklin D. Roosevelt, moved to the right, and became a critic of the New Deal, using his national magazines and \"New York Journal\" to confront Roosevelt's agenda.\n\nOn June 15, 1904, over 1,000 people, mostly German ethnics, were killed when the excursion steamship General Slocum caught fire and burned in the East River. It was a major blow to the German-American community.\n\nOn March 25, 1911, the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in Greenwich Village took the lives of 145 mostly Italian and Jewish female garment workers, which eventually led to great advancements in the city's fire department, building codes, and workplace regulations. Reaction to the disaster spurred the growth of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, and took place in the context of broader union movements coordinated by the American Federation of Labor.\n\nOn the night of April 14–15, 1912, the ocean liner \"RMS Titanic\" was en route in the North Atlantic to New York when it sank, killing 1,500 of the 2,200 people. On April 18 the rescue ship \"RMS Carpathia\" arrived and was met by some 40,000 onlookers. Immediate relief in the form of clothing and transportation to shelters was provided by the Women's Relief Committee, the Travelers Aid Society of New York, and the Council of Jewish Women, among other organizations. Two \"Titanic\" memorials are located in Manhattan. On April 13, 1913, the Titanic Memorial Lighthouse in Lower Manhattan was constructed on the roof of the Seamen's Church Institute. Straus Park, on the Upper West Side, commemorates Isidor Straus and his wife Ida, who both died in the disaster.\n\nThe Malbone Street Wreck, the worst disaster in the history of any rapid transit system in the United States, occurred on November 1, 1918. Many unionized subway workers went on strike against the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company (BRT), so the BRT assigned one of its office workers to be motorman on one train. This particular motorman had almost no training, instead of the usual 20 days minimum of training, and was recovering from the 1918 flu pandemic, which had just killed his daughter. During the rush hour, he made a series of bad mistakes, lost control on a downhill slope, and was racing at high speed when he crashed at a sharp curve outside of Prospect Park station. The Malbone Street Wreck killed 93 of the 650 passengers and seriously injured over hundred more. With a statewide election impending, it became a major campaign episode, leading to the election of Al Smith as governor.\n\nOn September 16, 1920, radicals in the city perpetrated the Wall Street bombing, a terrorist attack outside the headquarters of the House of Morgan, killing dozens of people and injuring hundreds. Officials blamed anarchist and communist elements, fueling the ongoing Palmer raids, but the culprits were never caught.\nCleanliness was a heavily promoted virtue, supported by the middle class and led by the public health community of physicians and experts. Street cleaning became a major item of the city budget and produced the sort of jobs that the machines wanted to distribute to their working class clientele. Horses were used for transportation in 1900, as they had been throughout the history of the city. There were 200,000 of them in the city, producing nearly of manure daily. It accumulated in the streets and was swept to the sides like snow. The stench was so strong that urbanites welcomed motor vehicles as a profound relief.\n\nThe city took the lead internationally to combat diphtheria, an often fatal disease that struck thousands of children annually. Researchers applied laboratory-based advances in bacteriology and immunology to the treatment and prevention of this disease, thereby eradicating it as a major threat. A few tens of thousands of people died in the \"Spanish flu\" epidemic of 1918–1919.\n\nAt the turn-of-the-century in 1900, gambling was illegal but widespread in New York City. The favorite activities included games of chance such as cards, dice and numbers, and betting on sports events, chiefly horse racing. In the upper class, gambling was handled discreetly in the expensive private clubs, the most famous of which was operated by Richard Canfield who operated the Saratoga Club. Prominent players included Reggie Vanderbilt and John Bet-a-Million Gates. The chief competitor to Canfield was the \"Bronze Door,\" operated 1891-1917 by syndicate of gamblers closely linked to the Democratic machine represented by Tammany Hall. These elite establishments were illegal, and paid off the police and politicians as needed. The working-class was served by hundreds of neighborhood gambling parlors, featuring faro card games, and the omnipresent policy shops where poor folks could bet a few pennies on the daily numbers, and be quickly paid off so they could gamble again. Betting on horse racing was allowed only at the tracks themselves, where the controls were tight. The most famous racing venue was Belmont Park, a complex of five race courses, a 12,000 seat grandstand and multiple stables, centered around a lavish clubhouse. Middle-class gamblers could frequent the city's race tracks, but the center of middle-class moral gravity was strongly opposed to all forms of gambling. The reform movement was strongest in the 1890s. It was led by men such as the Reverend Charles H. Parkhurst, the leading Presbyterian pastor and president of the New York Society for the Prevention of Crime; reform mayor William L. Strong, and his police commissioner Theodore Roosevelt. Reformers passed laws in the state legislature against any emerging gambling venue. Such laws were enforced and most of the small towns and rural areas, but not in New York's larger cities, where political machines controlled the police and the courts.\n\nThe Democrats, under the leadership of Al Smith and Robert F. Wagner embraced reform in the 1910s and 1920s, especially to the benefit of their core constituency, the working class. Smith became governor in the 1920s but lost the presidential election in 1928, even though he did very well in Catholic strongholds. Wagner served in the United States Senate from 1927 to 1949, where he was a leader of the New Deal Coalition, paying special emphasis to supporting the labor movement.\n\nThe 1924 presidential election, in which most New Yorkers voted for Calvin Coolidge, was the last time New York City was ever won by a Republican presidential candidate.\n\nAfter 1928, scandal engulfed City Hall. Flamboyant Mayor Jimmy Walker resigned and fled to Europe after state investigations showed he had taken bribes. Coupled with the harshness of the Great Depression, this gave an opening to the reformers. They won in 1933 with a Fusion ticket headed by Fiorello La Guardia. He was a liberal Republican Congressman with strong Italian and Jewish connections who appealed across party lines. La Guardia dominated city politics as mayor, 1934 to 1945. He supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his New Deal; in turn Roosevelt heavily funded the city and cut off patronage for La Guardia's enemies. La Guardia revitalized New York and restored public faith in City Hall. With the help of Robert Moses he directed the building of low-cost public housing, public playgrounds, parks, and airports. He reorganized the police force, defeated the still-powerful Tammany Hall machine, and reestablished the merit system in place of patronage jobs. La Guardia was a domineering leader who verged on authoritarianism but whose reform politics were carefully tailored to address the sentiments of his diverse constituency. He defeated a corrupt Democratic machine, presided during the Depression and world war, made the city the model for New Deal welfare and public works programs, and championed immigrants and ethnic minorities. He succeeded with the support of a sympathetic president who was equally hostile to Tammany Hall. He secured his place in history as a tough-minded reform mayor who helped clean out corruption, bring in gifted experts, and fix upon the city a broad sense of responsibility for its own citizens. His administration engaged new groups that had been kept out of the political system, gave New York its modern infrastructure, and raised expectations of new levels of urban possibility.\n\nImmigrant families continued establishing themselves, and more started moving into the neighborhoods outside of Manhattan; in a sign of municipal maturation, the 1920 census showed Brooklyn for the first time overtaking Manhattan as the most populous borough. But the great period of European immigration which had only just passed its peak was halted abruptly by the Immigration Act of 1924 which severely limited further immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe.\n\nAfter 1890, black people started moving into the formerly Jewish neighborhood of Harlem on Manhattan's upper West side. Much larger numbers arrived during the era of World War I as the Great Migration brought in blacks to fill more jobs at a time when immigration was suspended. Harlem became the political capital of black America, with highly controversial leadership from Marcus Garvey in the early 1920s. Sustained civil rights activism took place in the 1930s and 1940s, often led by Baptists minister Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., who was elected to the United States Congress in 1942. Unemployment was a major problem in the Depression years, but New Deal relief agencies such as the Civilian Conservation Corps and Works Progress Administration provided considerable employment on an equal basis. Much of the organize protest was a demand for jobs and stores owned and operated by whites in Harlem.\n\nThe Harlem Renaissance from 1920 to 1940 brought worldwide attention to African American literature. For many years, especially in the 1920s, Harlem was home to a flourishing of social thought and culture that took place among numerous Black artists, musicians, novelists, poets, and playwrights. The most famous writers included Langston Hughes, James Weldon Johnson, Claude McKay, and Zora Neale Hurston.\n\nThe Jazz Age featured celebrities, among the most notable in the city were Madame Polly Adler; jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald; dancer Martha Graham; speakeasy host Texas Guinan; publisher Henry Luce of \"Time\" magazine; writer Dorothy Parker and the pundits at the Algonquin Hotel; editor Harold Ross at \"The New Yorker\" magazine; and such nationally famous sports heroes as Babe Ruth and Bill Tilden.\n\nFun-loving Tammany Mayor Jimmy Walker presided over a period of prosperity for the city, with the proliferation of the speakeasy during Prohibition.\n\nTin Pan Alley developed toward Broadway, and the first modern musical, Jerome Kern's \"Show Boat\", opened in 1927, as the theater district moved north of 42nd Street.\n\nDuring this time, New York City became known for its daring and impressive architecture, including notably the skyscrapers which transformed the skyline. The race to the sky culminated in the dueling spires of two Art Deco icons—the Chrysler Building and the Empire State Building—during the late 1920s. These two skyscrapers were not topped off until their soaring heights seemed rather overoptimistic. The construction of the Rockefeller Center also occurred during this time, becoming one of the largest-ever private development projects at the time. The city grew outward, too, with residential development replacing most of the farmland of eastern Brooklyn, eastern Bronx, and much of Queens.\n\nThe Great Depression, which was to affect the rest of the world, began with the Stock Market Crash of 1929. The recently completed Empire State Building would be known as the \"Empty State Building\" for many years because it could not attract sufficient tenants in the bleak business climate. When New York Governor Franklin Roosevelt became president, the Hooverville shacks named after his predecessor dotted city parks. The city became a showcase for New Deal spending, especially through the Public Works Administration and the Works Progress Administration. There were massive building projects including highways, bridges, public housing, new schools, and expansion of the Brooklyn Navy Yard.\nParkway planner Robert Moses took charge of building many bridges, parks, public housing units, and parkways with mainly federal money. Moses was a great proponent of automobile-centered modernism whose legacy of massive construction projects is still controversial. He opposed the massive subway expansions proposed in 1929 and 1939. However, the last large expansion of the subway system, combined with the merger of privately owned Interborough Rapid Transit and Brooklyn–Manhattan Transit subway companies with the city-owned Independent Subway System under city ownership, made the subway largely what it is today.\n\nNew York, long a great American city with many immigrants, became a culturally international city with the brain drain of intellectual, musical, and artistic European refugees that started in the late 1930s. The 1939 New York World's Fair, marking the 150th anniversary of George Washington's inauguration in Federal Hall, was a high point of technological optimism, meant to mark the end of the Depression. After the start of World War II, though, the theme was changed from \"Building the World of Tomorrow\" to \"For Peace and Freedom\", and the shadow of the war underway in Europe dampened the proceedings.\n\nThe economy of New York City was boosted by the war effort, but not to the extent of cities with heavy industries such as Pittsburgh, Chicago, Los Angeles or Detroit. The clothing industry produced uniforms, and machine shops focused on war materials. The Brooklyn Navy Yard again increased its production of warships. The large printing industry was scarcely affected. The port facilities again played their role in shipping supplies and soldiers to Europe. The Port of New York handled 25% of the nation's exports. By the war's end, the Navy Yard was the world's largest shipyard with 75,000 workers. When peace arrived in 1945, New York was clearly pre-eminent in the world, as the only major world city unscathed by the war.\n\nNew York became the financial center of the United States before the Civil War, specializing in railroad securities. By 1900 it grew even more dominant and was starting to approach London as a world financial center. There were thousands of successful bankers and financiers; a central figure was J.P. Morgan, whose House of Morgan set up national financing programs for the steel, agricultural implements, shipping, and other industries. It also financed much of the British and French war efforts in World War I. John D. Rockefeller, of Standard Oil, expanded from a dominant position in oil to other industries as well as banking. Andrew Carnegie dominated steel until he sold out to Morgan in 1901. After 1900, Rockefeller and Carnegie largely devoted their interest to philanthropy, as to a certain extent did Morgan. With the creation of the Federal Reserve System in 1913, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York became a powerful player under its dynamic president Benjamin Strong. By 1917, New York was funding the world war efforts of Britain, France and for other Allies. By the 1920s, New York had surpassed London as a world banking center. The New York Stock Exchange was the national focus of wealth making and speculation until its shares suddenly collapsed late in 1929, setting off the worldwide Great Depression.\n\nThe garment industry involved the manufacture of ready-to-wear clothing for men and women, as well as the wholesaling of these products to stores around the country. New York City dominated the national industry, with Chicago and Los Angeles trailing far behind. It originated in the nineteenth-century \"rag trade\" of Jewish tailors, cutters, pressers, peddlers, and shopkeepers. By 1900 it was a largely Jewish owned and operated industry, and most workers were Jewish, although other new immigrants were being hired. The Yiddish-speaking East European Jews were strong supporters of labor unions, which they related to their socialist influences back in Europe.\n\nThe International Ladies Garment Workers Union (ILGWU) formed in 1900 and was a major player in the American Federation of Labor. It grew rapidly in its first two decades and took credit for abolishing sewing work in the tenements, establishing a six-day, 54-hour week, writing union contracts that gave preference to ILGWU members applying for a job, and setting up arbitration machinery. The union was much larger and stronger than the hundreds of small shops with which it dealt. However, in the 1920s the ILGWU was ripped apart by battles between the established leadership, the Communists. By 1928 the establishment won out; the Communists only controlled the Furriers union, which they ruled by paramilitary violence. ILGWU membership had dropped to 40,000 (the great majority of whom were women). The early years of the Great Depression further undermined the union. Under the leadership of David Dubinsky, the ILGWU became a major supporter of Roosevelt's New Deal, and it grew rapidly in membership in the late 1930s and during World War II.\n\nThe Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America was a more radical breakaway group that formed in 1914. It focused on ready-made clothing for men, and provided banks, recreation, medical care, and even restaurants and housing for the membership. It expelled its Communists in the 1920s. Under the leadership of Sidney Hillman, it played a central role in forming the militant Congress of Industrial Organizations in the mid-1930s, and giving Hillman a powerful voice in the New Deal Coalition. After 1970, both unions lost membership and merged in 1995.\n\nWith the Democratic Party in the city largely controlled by the conservative Irish, Dubinsky and Hillman and their unions formed a new political party in 1936, the American Labor Party. It ran a ticket only in New York State, where it enthusiastically endorsed Roosevelt's three re-elections. When the Communists infiltrated the Party in 1944, the ILGWU broke away and formed the Liberal Party of New York. The Liberal party was led for many years by Alex Rose, the leader of the hatter's union, a small garment industry union.\n\nThe Port of New York and New Jersey was the largest American port by far, serving both passenger and merchant vessels. The port was the main point of embarkation for U.S. troops traveling to Europe during World War I. The congestion at the port led experts to realize the need for a port authority to supervise the extremely complex system of bridges, highways, subways, and port facilities in the New York-New Jersey area. The Port of New York Authority was created in 1921, under the supervision of the governors of New York and New Jersey. By issuing its own bonds, it was financially independent of either state; the bonds were paid off from tolls and fees, and not from taxes. It became one of the major agencies of the New York metropolitan area to handle large-scale projects, especially under the leadership of Austin Tobin.\n\nPassenger ships flourished before the coming of transatlantic air carriers in the 1960s. One line of business catered to upscale tourists headed in both directions, with American and British lines in competition. Passenger steamships also carried steerage passengers at low rates. The vast majority were immigrants to the United States, although some immigrants were returning to Europe. Two German companies dominated the immigration traffic to New York from Central and Eastern Europe, the Hamburg-America line and the North German Lloyd. They built elaborate networks of ticket agencies in Europe, offering low-cost one-way packages. Immigrants headed to other cities typically held prepaid tickets paid by their relatives who had already established themselves in the New World. Most new arrivals already had some idea of what they were coming to, from family letters and widely available pamphlet literature. The great majority of travelers from Europe came through New York City, and the immigrants did their paperwork at Ellis Island. A small percentage were rejected because of obvious disease; the steamship companies had to pay their fair back, so they screened for sick passengers ahead of time in Europe.\n\nThe city played a major role in publicizing and financing World War I, as well as producing uniforms and warships. There was fear of German sabotage, especially in the aftermath of the Black Tom explosion in 1916.\n\nThe Bronx's history after 1898 falls into several distinct periods. The first is a boom period during 1898–1929, with a population growth by a factor of six from 200,000 in 1900 to 1.3 million in 1930. The Great Depression brought a surge of unemployment, especially among the working class, and a slowing of growth. The mid-to-late century were hard times, as the Bronx declined in the 1950s through the '70s from a predominantly moderate-income to a predominantly lower-income area with high rates of violent crime and poverty. An economic and developmental resurgence began in the late 1980s and continued through the 1990s.\n\nPolitics in the borough from 1922 to 1953 was under the tight control of the Democratic organization, with Edward J. Flynn at the helm. Generally referred to as \"the boss\", he ran the political machine like a business executive, paying particular attention to choosing top lieutenants, and providing services to grateful voters. In sharp contrast to the leaders of Tammany, he cooperated very smoothly with Franklin Roosevelt both as governor and as president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898559", "title": "The Escorts (American band)", "text": "The Escorts (American band)\n\nThe Escorts (later The Do's & Don'ts) are a 1950s and 1960s Rock and roll band from Iowa, United States. The Iowa Rock 'N Roll Music Association's Hall of Fame inducted this band in the year that the Hall of Fame was started, 1997. They were one of the first bands in Iowa to play Rock and Roll music, starting in 1959. They released more 45 rpm records than any other Iowa band in the 1960s. They performed in ballrooms all over Iowa and traveled out-of-state as well. They are one of the few bands to perform for over 45 years. See related article The Escorts / The Do's & The Don'ts (album).\n\nMembers of The Escorts included Dennis Shryack, who later became a successful screenwriter on such films as \"Code of Silence\" (1985), \"Pale Rider\" (1985) and \"Turner & Hooch\" (1989).\n\nIowa Rocked! The 1960s (2nd edition) By Tom Tourville\n\n"}
{"id": "1898562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898562", "title": "Electoral division of Stuart", "text": "Electoral division of Stuart\n\nStuart is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. Named after Scottish explorer John McDouall Stuart, it was initially created in 1947 as one of the five inaugural electoral divisions of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. It is an almost entirely rural electorate encompassing much of the western Territory, covering 383,859 km² and taking in the towns of Dagaragu, Lajamanu, Willowra, Yuendumu, and part of the north-eastern side of Alice Springs. There were 5,242 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2016.\n\nIt was originally easily held by the Country Liberal Party, but became much friendlier to Labor when a 1983 redistribution removed most of the Alice Springs area of the electorate. As a result of the redistribution, sitting CLP member Roger Vale, who had held it since its creation, followed most of his Alice Springs constituents into the then-new seat of Braitling. Labor held it without interruption for the next 30 years, usually without serious difficulty. It was held by one-time Opposition Leader Brian Ede from 1983 to 1996, and former Attorney-General Peter Toyne from 1996 to 2006. Toyne was succeeded in a 2006 by-election by indigenous policy advisor Karl Hampton.\n\nHampton easily retained the seat in 2008, but in the 2012 election, he was opposed by CLP star candidate and indigenous activist Bess Price, who is also Hampton's aunt. Hampton's primary vote more than halved, and Price defeated him on a two-party swing of 18.6 percent amid the ALP's meltdown in the remote portions of the Territory. Price was herself swept out in the 2016 election by Labor challenger Scott McConnell on a swing of almost 31 percent—virtually unheard of in Australian politics—amid the CLP's meltdown that year. McConnell now sits on a majority of 25.4 percent, making Stuart the second-safest seat in the Territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898563", "title": "Slipping Out", "text": "Slipping Out\n\nSlipping Out is the eighth studio album by American soul-disco group, The Trammps, released in 1980 through Atlantic Records.\n\nThe album and the singles \"Looking for You\" and \"Breathtaking View\" all failed to chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898568", "title": "Saiwa Swamp National Park", "text": "Saiwa Swamp National Park\n\nSaiwa Swamp National Park is located near Kitale, in Trans-Nzoia County, Rift Valley Province, Kenya. It is the smallest national park in Kenya, only 3 km², and was created as habitat for the Sitatunga, a rare aquatic antelope. There are a variety of trees at the national park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898571", "title": "Bay-headed tanager", "text": "Bay-headed tanager\n\nThe bay-headed tanager (\"Tangara gyrola\") is a medium-sized passerine bird. This tanager is a resident breeder in Costa Rica, Panama, South America south to Ecuador, Bolivia and southern Brazil, and on Trinidad.\n\nIt occurs in forests, particularly in wetter areas. The bulky cup nest is built in a tree and the normal clutch is two brown-blotched white eggs. The female incubates the eggs for 13–14 days to hatching, with another 15–16 days before the chicks fledge. .\n\nAdult bay-headed tanagers are 14 cm long and weigh 19.5 g. The nominate race \"T. g. gyrola\" is mainly green apart from a chestnut head, a blue or green belly, and a thin gold collar on the hind neck. Sexes are similar, but immatures are duller with chestnut-flecked green heads.\n\nThere is considerable plumage variation between the various subspecies, and \"T. g.viridissima\" of northeast Venezuela and Trinidad has green underparts concolorous with the rest of the body plumage.\n\nThese are social birds which eat mainly fruit, usually swallowed whole. Insects are also taken, mainly from the underside of branches. The bay-headed tanager's song is a slow \"seee, seee, seee, tsou, tsooy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1898572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898572", "title": "Sports Weekend: As Nasty as They Wanna Be, Pt. 2", "text": "Sports Weekend: As Nasty as They Wanna Be, Pt. 2\n\nSports Weekend: As Nasty As They Wanna Be, Pt. 2 is the sixth album overall and fifth studio album by the 2 Live Crew (released in 1991) and the sequel of \"As Nasty As They Wanna Be\". A clean version was released later that same year titled Sports Weekend: As Clean As They Wanna Be Part II and was the sequel of \"As Clean As They Wanna Be\". This would be the last studio album by all original members of the 2 Live Crew.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898574", "title": "Trung Thu", "text": "Trung Thu\n\nTrung Thu may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1898579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898579", "title": "Cornell University Glee Club", "text": "Cornell University Glee Club\n\nThe Cornell University Glee Club (CUGC) is the oldest student organization at Cornell University, having been organized shortly after the first students arrived on campus in 1868. The CUGC is a fifty-five member chorus for tenor and bass voices, with repertoire including classical, folk, 20th-century music, and traditional Cornell songs. The Glee Club also performs major works with the Cornell University Chorus such as Beethoven's Missa Solemnis, Handel's Messiah, and Bach's Mass in B Minor.\n\n\n\nThe CUGC has performed as an ensemble in twenty-five different countries.\n\nThe Glee Club has given the world and American premieres of many works for male chorus, written by a variety of notable composers.\n\nWorld premieres include works by:\nAmerican premieres include works by:\n\nIn 2005, the Glee Club established the Thomas A. Sokol Commissioning Endowment in recognition of the 75th birthday of Director Emeritus Thomas Sokol. The proceeds help fund an annual commission from a well-known composer of a new work (or works), typically premiered by the Glee Club during the fall Homecoming weekend concert. Sokol Commission recipients to date include:\n\n\n\nAdopted as the official emblem of the Glee Club by Thomas A. Sokol shortly after he became director, the CUGC seal features the head of Apollo, the Greek god of music and poetry. It also recalls the well-known glee \"Glorious Apollo\" by Samuel Webbe.\n\n\"\"The excellent impression made by the 60 young men was of a finely finished vocalism from beginning to end of their a cappella program.\"\"\n\n\"\"Throw out all stereotypes. The Cornell University Glee Club has developed a virtuosic choral sound that has far more in common with the King's Singers than 40 guys with a keg.\"\"\n\n\"\"I want to send you my heartiest congratulations on your superb singing...I do not exaggerate when I say you made choral history, and I hope sincerely that before long we can again make music together.\"\"\n\n\"\"This is the most exciting moment in my eight years as Governor of New York.\"\"\n\nThe Hangovers, established in 1968, have been the official \"a cappella\" subset of the Glee Club for over forty years. The Hangovers' repertoire consists mainly of popular songs arranged for a cappella by members and alumni of the group, but they also perform traditional Cornell songs, as well as selections from the Glee Club repertoire on occasion.\n\nThe Hangovers have two major on-campus concerts every year, one in the Fall and one in the late Spring. The Fall concert has been named Fall Tonic since 1980, while the spring concert (produced since 1993) is known as Happy Hour.\n\nPerformances and tours take place around campus, around the country, and around the world. These efforts are undertaken in addition to the performances and travels that Hangovers members are also involved in as members of the Glee Club (see above). The Hangovers' first solo tour was to Bermuda in 1971, with subsequent tours undertaken to Antigua, Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Spain, and Switzerland. The ensemble also records periodically, and has released thirteen albums.\n\nPrior to The Hangovers, the Glee Club spawned several spinoff \"a cappella\" subsets in the second half of the 20th century as collegiate a cappella emerged as a popular form of music.\n\n\nFirst appearing at the Glee Club's 1956 fall concert, The Sherwoods of Cornell gained prominence quickly among collegiate musical groups. They took their name from Sherwood B. \"Woody\" Bliss, Cornell class of 1958. They embarked on their first international tour in the summer of 1957 (with an itinerary including Hawaii and the Far East) and by 1958, they were a successful act in great demand both on and off campus. This enormous success came at a price, however, and led to conflicts with the Glee Club, which had nominally remained The Sherwoods' parent organization during these formative years. In the fall of 1958, the two organizations split officially. Glee Club director Thomas Sokol later recalled that The Sherwoods had been \"twelve of [his] best singers,\" and that losing them was a difficult—but necessary—step for both organizations.\n\nThe Sherwoods toured extensively, traveling to Hawaii, the Far East, Bermuda, the Virgin Islands, and Jamaica and on two extensive tours for the USO, entertaining troops in the Philippines, and throughout Germany (1964). They commonly wore dark (Sherwood) green jackets and ties for performances. Rather than sing stock arrangements, The Sherwoods wrote their own. They were known for rich 6–8 part harmony music unique among other a cappella groups of their time. Four members accounted for most of their arrangements: Jack Wade '58, Frank Holden '62, Fred Kewley '65, and Dan Murray '70 whose arrangements are numerous on the final Sherwood LP, \"Green\" (1971). Holden (resident of Duxbury, MA) and Kewley (a manager of music professionals in Nashville, TN) are now both music directors for two large groups of alumni Sherwoods they call \"The Founders\" (singers from classes of '58–'63) and \"The Youngers\" (singers from classes of '64–'74). Kewley succumbed to pancreatic cancer on June 23, 2013. Eighteen of his Sherwoods traveled to Nashville, TN to join family and friends in a memorial service to honor him. Taking Kewley's place as Sherwoods music director is David Hunter '68. Ron Johnson '68 continues on as business manager. The group intends to continue singing at Cornell's annual reunion each June, and elsewhere, upon demand.\n\nThe popularity of a cappella singing faded for a period in the early 1970s and The Sherwoods stopped auditioning new members in 1973. 1973 also marked the final year in which the Sherwoods were featured in \"The Cornellian\", Cornell University's annual year book.\n\nIn 1985 The Class of '65 invited the 'Younger' Sherwoods back to Cornell to entertain them at their 20th reunion. It was the first time in twenty years The Youngers had met to re-learn their songs and practice their entertaining introductions. The 'Younger' Sherwoods have been returning to Cornell's Ithaca campus to perform at reunions every year since 1985, celebrating their 26th annual shows in 2010, once again entertaining the Class of '65, this time at the class's 45th reunion.\n\nThe 'Founders' Sherwoods gather at various times during the year, continuing to practice and perform the repertoire they sang during their era at Cornell. Between the two Sherwoods groups there are about 45 active Sherwood singers performing today.\n\nThe Sherwoods released seven albums during their undergraduate years; more recently they have produced two re-mastered compilation CDs entitled \"Try to Remember – The Reunion Album\" and \"Old Friends\". The Sherwoods continue to look for opportunities to perform. Business manager is Ron Johnson '68 of Hingham, MA.\n\nNoted hit singer/songwriter Harry Chapin sang with the Sherwoods for several years, writing two songs performed by the group, 'Let me Down Easy' and 'Winter Song'. As an undergraduate, Chapin was preoccupied with his prolific songwriting, and he eventually dropped out of Cornell University to focus on his early career as a successful singer-songwriter. In 1971 Fred Kewley, Sherwood musical director, became Chapin's manager through the best years of his career, from landing the recording contract with Elektra through his hits Taxi, WOLD, and Cats In The Cradle, etc., and the hundreds of concerts around the US and Europe his music spawned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898583", "title": "Uranium-234", "text": "Uranium-234\n\nUranium-234 (U, U-234) is an isotope of uranium. In natural uranium and in uranium ore, U occurs as an indirect decay product of uranium-238, but it makes up only 0.0055% (55 parts per million) of the raw uranium because its half-life of just 245,500 years is only about 1/18,000 as long as that of U. The primary path of production of U via nuclear decay is as follows: uranium-238 nuclei emit an alpha particle to become thorium-234. Next, with a short half-life, Th nuclei emit a beta particle to become protactinium-234 (Pa), or more likely a nuclear isomer denoted Pa. Finally, Pa or Pa nuclei emit another beta particle to become U nuclei.\n\nUranium-234 nuclei decay by alpha emission to thorium-230, except for the tiny fraction (parts per billion) of nuclei which undergo spontaneous fission.\n\nExtraction of rather small amounts of U from natural uranium would be feasible using isotope separation, similar to that used for regular uranium-enrichment. However, there is no real demand in chemistry, physics, or engineering for isolating U. Very small pure samples of U can be extracted via the chemical ion-exchange process - from samples of plutonium-238 that have been aged somewhat to allow some decay to U via alpha emission.\n\nEnriched uranium contains more U than natural uranium as a byproduct of the uranium enrichment process aimed at obtaining uranium-235, which concentrates lighter isotopes even more strongly than it does U. IAEA research paper TECDOC-1529 concludes the U content of enriched fuel is directly proportional to the degree of U—enrichment with 2% U resulting in 150 g U/tonHM, and the most common 4.5% U enrichment resulting in 400 g U/tonHM. The increased percentage of U in enriched natural uranium is acceptable in current nuclear reactors. Recycled (re-enriched) reprocessed uranium contains even higher fractions of U. This is advantageous because while U is not fissile, it tends to absorb slow neutrons in a nuclear reactor breeding U. This is much more efficient than series of steps U + n → Np → Pu in replacing fissile isotope consumption.\n\nUranium-234 has a neutron-capture cross section of about 100 barns for thermal neutrons, and about 700 barns for its resonance integral - the average of neutrons having a range of intermediate energies. In a nuclear reactor non-fissile isotopes U and U both capture a neutron breeding fissile isotopes U and Pu respectively. U is converted to U more easily and therefore at a greater rate than U is to Pu (via neptunium-239) because U has a much smaller neutron-capture cross section of just 2.7 barns. In the reaction U + n → U reaction, the U content of 4.5% enriched fuel drops steadily over the irradiation period falling from 450g/ton HM to 205g/ton HM in fuel with an irradiation of 60GWd/ton HM.\n\nAdditionally, (n, 2n) reactions with fast neutrons also convert small amounts of U to U. This is countered by the rapid conversion of available U into U through thermal neutron capture. Spent fuel may contain as much as 0.010% U, or 100 parts per million, a much higher fraction than in natural uranium's 55 parts per million. Depleted uranium separated during the enrichment process contains much less U (around 0.001%) which makes the radioactivity of depleted uranium about one-half of that of natural uranium. Natural uranium has an \"equilibrium\" concentration of U—the point at which an equal number of decays of U and U will occur.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898585", "title": "Norm Rice", "text": "Norm Rice\n\nNorman Blann Rice (born May 4, 1943) is an American politician who served as the 49th mayor of Seattle, Washington, serving two terms from 1990 to 1997. Rice was Seattle's first, and to date only, elected African-American mayor (Bruce Harrell assumed the post of acting mayor on September 13, 2017).\n\nRice graduated from the University of Washington in Seattle, earning a bachelor's degree in communications and a Master of Public Administration from the university's Daniel J. Evans School of Public Affairs. He became a member of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity. In 1975, he married Dr. Constance Williams.\n\nBefore entering city government, Rice worked as a reporter at KOMO-TV News and KIXI radio. He served as Assistant Director of the Seattle Urban League. He next worked as Executive Assistant and Director of Government Services for the Puget Sound Council of Governments.\n\nRice was first elected to the Seattle City Council in 1978 to fill a vacancy. He was reelected in 1979, 1983 and 1987, serving eleven years in all. He served as chairs of the Energy, Finance, and Budget committees, and was Council President for one term. Rice facilitated the development of more equitable cost allocation and rate design procedures for Seattle City Light as part of his work on the Energy Committee.\n\nHis accomplishments on the Finance and Budget Committee included the passage of the Women and Minority Business Enterprise Ordinance, and from 1982 to 1987, the elimination of City investments in firms doing business in apartheid-era South Africa.\n\nHe ran for mayor in 1985, but lost to Charles Royer. Rice ran again in 1989 in a crowded field and won 99,699 to 75,446. He was re-elected in 1993.\n\nDuring the technology boom of the 1990s, Rice led the rejuvenation of Seattle's downtown. He also served as President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.\n\nIn 1995, Rice served as a committee member for the Rudy Bruner Award for Urban Excellence.\n\nIn 1996, Rice ran in the Democratic primary for Governor of Washington, but he was defeated by then-King County Executive Gary Locke.\n\nIn 1997, Rice made a guest appearance as himself on an episode of \"Frasier\", entitled \"The 1000th Show.\"\n\nRice was CEO and then president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle from 1998 to 2004.\nNorm Rice loaded the Seattle branch of the bank with billions of dollars of loans which put the Seattle branch in financial difficulty. He voluntarily stepped down in 2004.\n\nRice is serving a three-year term as a Distinguished Practitioner-in-Residence at the University of Washington’s Daniel J. Evans School of Public Affairs and leads the project Civic Engagement in the 21st Century.\n\nIn June 2009, Rice was named CEO of the non-profit Seattle Foundation, serving in that post until December, 2013. In December 2010, he was nominated as one of 30 members for a two-year appointment in the White House Council for Community Solutions, created by Executive Order of President Barack Obama.\n\nRice has been awarded honorary degrees by Cornish College of the Arts, Seattle University, the University of Puget Sound, and Whitman College.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898588", "title": "Tanjung Malim", "text": "Tanjung Malim\n\nTanjung Malim, alternately Tanjong Malim (Chinese: 丹絨馬林) is a town in Muallim District, Perak, Malaysia. It is approximately north of Kuala Lumpur and 120 km south of Ipoh via the North–South Expressway. It lies on the Perak-Selangor state border, with Sungai Bernam serving as the natural divider.\n\nToday, \"Tanjung Malim\" usually refers to the territory under administration of Tanjung Malim District Council or \"Majlis Daerah Tanjung Malim (MDTM)\", which includes the smaller towns adjacent to the town such as Proton City, Behrang, Behrang 2020, Sungkai and Slim River. \"Tanjung Malim\" is lately also referred to the \"Old Town\" and \"New Town\" divided by the KTM Komuter rail at its heart, from which the town grew. Commuter train services from Tanjung Malim started on 1 June 2009.\n\nAn early settlement nearby Sungai Bernam is named Kampung Kubu (Fort Village). The Bugis community planted jambu fruit trees along the river bank. As population grew over time, the area is referred to as Kampung Jambu. A mosque is also built to cater its Muslim community. During a visit by a British Straits of Settlements official, Sir List, the state officials headed by Raja Itam referred the area as Tanjong, as quoted by its local ulama Tuan Haji Mustafa bin Raja Kemala. However, it is also known locally as Kg.Kubu, Kg.Bugis, Kg.Jambu and Tg.Jambu. Hence, Sir List 'officially' named it as Tanjong Malim to avoid confusion. (Malim or mualim refers to the pious local Muslim community)\n\nIn the early AD 1700, a Bugis settlement was established along the riverbank of Sungai Bernam, as part of Raja Kecil's plan to set up one of its \"kubu,\" fort along the river to fend off the northern Perak Sultanate threat. The plan fell apart with the fall of Raja Kecil in Johor Sultanate power struggle. Over the century, the small village known as Kampung Kubu/Bugis remained idle or rather isolated.\n\nAround 1766, Perak Sultan Mahmud Shah crowned the Bugis prince Lumu as Sultan Salahuddin Shah to establish the Selangor Sultanate. Sungai Bernam is agreed as the natural border and this tiny village happens to be divided by it. Today, the Selangor side is known as Ulu Bernam while the Perak side is Tanjong Malim.\n\nThe 1875, Klang War in Selangor drove the Malay community to reside at this rather peaceful village. The Gee Hin-Hai San triads conflict in Ipoh also drew the Chinese community to this village.\nIn the early 1900s, the Chinese Hokkien clan built two rows of shop houses which formed the pillar of the town. These old shop houses still exist today along Jalan Besar in Tanjong Malim. Lately, it is referred to as the \"old town\" as current development concentrates more on the northern area.\nThe British also brought in the Indian community to work in the rubber plantation, which is the town's most important agriculture sector income during the colonial rule. The Mogah community also set up its petty trade in the outskirt of the town.\n\nMajor development took place as infrastructures were upgraded. e.g. railway station, bus station, tarred roads, a federal trunk road, schools, district hospital, etc.\nIn 1922, the Sultan Idris Training College was built there, (first education training institution in Malaysia). The SITC expanded over decades (to MPSI, IPSI, UPSI) and is now a public university, Universiti Pendidikan Sultan Idris. A polytechnic is also establish recently, granting the town the nickname Town of Education.\n\nThe Second World War put a halt to the town's development. The most intensely fought gun battle during the Malaya conquest took place at Slim River, nearby here. The Japanese invaders took over and SITC field became a gruesome POW execution site. After the war, the communist threat further diminished the town population. Tanjong Malim is one the \"black town\" in the British effort to combat communism. A local district office is also built here, governing the nearby settlements within 30 km radius. But the assassination of Sir Cordner promptly forced the British to move the office to Slim River.\n\nAfter the 1957 independence, Tanjong Malim is a rather sleepy town. Most Malaysian would only recall this town as a stop-over rest area during long haul travels between Ipoh and Kuala Lumpur. The great flood in 1970 further dampened the town development. In the 1990s, there were plan to push Tanjong Malim to become a buffer city with mega projects such as Proton City and Diamond Creeks. However, the 1997 worldwide economy meltdown put a big comma to it.\n\nRecently, Tanjong Malim is back on track. The Proton City project is turned on, and coupled with the Bernam Jaya projects, a City status could be foreseen in a matter of time.\n\n\nThe following towns, suburbs, and neighborhoods comprise the area formally\n\n\nTanjung Malim is a small town in Perak.\nIn Batang Padang, it is 3rd largest after Tapah and Bidor, just ahead of Slim River.\n\n\n\n\n\n Tanjung Malim station serves Tanjong Malim town, providing KTM ETS and Komuter services. The Tanjong Malim constituency also contains another three stations in Behrang, Slim River and Sungkai, with only limited ETS and freight services.\nBus Station Tanjong Malim (Cap:400ppl)\nThere is no airway in Tanjong Malim, only airfields for helicopters.\nThe old interstate Route (Federal Highway) connecting Ipoh - Kuala Lumpur, is the main thoroughfare in Tanjung Malim constituency.\nPLUS exit 121. Though named as \"Tanjung Malim Interchange\", it is actually located in Ulu Bernam, Selangor.\n\nMovies filmed in Tanjong Malim include:\nPrincipal Award, 51st Oberhausen International Short Film Festival\n\n"}
{"id": "1898599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898599", "title": "Back at Your Ass for the Nine-4", "text": "Back at Your Ass for the Nine-4\n\nBack at Your Ass for the Nine-4 is the sixth studio album by Miami-based hip hop group 2 Live Crew. It was released on February 8, 1994 via Luke Records and was produced by Mike Fresh, DJ Slice, Professor Griff, DJ Spin Felix Sama & DJ Laz. The album became a moderate hit, peaking at #52 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and #9 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums. Two charting singles were produced, \"Hell, Yeah\" and \"You Go Girl\" who were both made into music videos. For this album the group was billed as the new 2 Live Crew as Brother Marquis and Mr. Mixx had left the group, the line-up for this album was Fresh Kid Ice, Luke and new member, Verb. It is the last 2 Live Crew album to feature Luke.\n"}
{"id": "1898610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898610", "title": "Meck Island", "text": "Meck Island\n\nMeck Island (, ) is part of the Kwajalein Atoll in the Ralik Chain in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, southwest of Honolulu, Hawaii.\n\nMeck is part of the Ronald Reagan Ballistic Missile Defense Test Site, and a launch site for anti-ballistic missiles and launch vehicles is based there. It was originally developed in support of the Sentinel program of the 1960s, and hosted a radar site and launchers for Sprint and Spartan missiles. It has been used for a variety of tests since then, including the Safeguard program, Homing Overlay Experiment, Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle, THAAD and others.\n"}
{"id": "1898617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898617", "title": "Edwin Copeland", "text": "Edwin Copeland\n\nEdwin Bingham Copeland (September 30, 1873 – March 16, 1964) was an American botanist and agriculturist. He is known for founding the University of the Philippines College of Agriculture at Los Baños, Laguna and for being one of the America's leading pteridologists (one who studies ferns).\n\nIn 1903, he and his family moved to the Philippines, where he worked as a Systematic Botanist for the Bureau of Science. In 1909, he founded the University of the Philippines College of Agriculture at Los Baños, Laguna, now part of the University of the Philippines Los Baños, and served as its dean and also as a professor of plant physiology for eight years (1909–1917). In 1917, he returned to the United States and was a leading rice grower in Chico, California. In 1927, he began work as an Associate Curator at the University of California, Berkeley. In 1931, he worked for the Department of Agriculture of the Philippines, retiring in 1935. After retiring he returned to UC Berkeley and became a permanent Research Associate of the Department of Biology of the University of California. He is best known among American botanists for this latter period at UC. He was elected an Honorary Member of the American Fern Society in 1948.\n\nDuring his career he described 35 new genera and some 600 new species of ferns. His personal herbarium totaled approximately 25,000 species and is now at the University of Michigan Herbarium. He wrote numerous articles and several books including \"Elements of Philippine Agriculture\" (1908), \"The Coconut\" (three editions, 1914, 1921, and 1931), \"Rice\" (1924), \"Fern\" (1964) and \"Natural Conduct\" (1928), a book on practical ethics. In a letter during his final months, a friend C.V. Morton wrote, \"You have the consolation of knowing that your name is in constant use by fern students the world over.\" The fungus genus \"Copelandia\" was named after him.\n\nOn August 8, 1899, Copeland and partner E. N. Henderson were the first climbers known to reach summit of Junction Peak, a thirteener in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California.\n\nHis father was the zoologist Herbert Edson Copeland (1849–1876) and he was the father of biologist Herbert Copeland. He was married to Ethel Faulkner Copeland.\n\nThe following species of plants are named after him:\n"}
{"id": "1898618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898618", "title": "List of male middle-distance runners", "text": "List of male middle-distance runners\n\nAs of May 2005, this is a list of notable male middle distance runners (800 m – 3000 m) since the first Olympic Games in 1896.\n\nThis list includes any athlete who has been a medalist in the Olympic Games or World championships (indoor and outdoor). Also included are medalists in the IAAF World Cup and WAF events. Finally, it includes any athlete ranked (by time) in the top three of a middle distance event for any given year since 1980.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAthletes who medalled in a middle distance event at both the European and Commonwealth Championships but did not meet the criteria to be listed above:\n\nOther athletes who were ranked in the top three of 'Track and Field News' (TFN) end of year rankings for 800 m or 1500 m but have not already been listed above, are listed below. Rankings have been done every year since 1947.\n\nAndré De Hertoghe BEL – Andy Carter GB – Arnie Sowell USA – Ben Jipcho KEN – Dan Waern SWE – Danie Malan SA – David Mack US – Derek Ibbotson GBR – Dieter Fromm EG – Don Gehrmann USA – Doug Harris NZ – Dyrol Burleson USA – Francesco Arese ITA – Franz-Josef Kemper WG – Gaston Reiff BEL – Gösta Bergkvist SWE – Gunnar Nielsen DEN – Henry Szordykowski POL – Jean-Pierre Dufresne FRA – Jerry Siebert USA – Jim Baily AUS – Jim Beatty USA – Jim Dupree FRA – John Fulton USA – Jozef Plachy CZE – Jürgen May EG – Ken Swenson USA – Lajos Szentgáli HUN – László Tábori HUN – Manfred Matuschewski EG – Marcello Fiasconaro ITA – Marty Liquori USA – Merv Lincoln AUS – Murray Halberg NZ – Niels Hoslt-Sörensen DEN – Olle Åberg SWE – Patrick El Mabrouk FRA – Luciano Susanj YUG – Urban Cleve WG – Sándor Iharos HUN – Siegried Valentin EG – Stanislav Jungwirth CZE – Stefan Lewandowski POL – Wade Bell USA – Wes Santee USA – Wilfred Kirochi KEN\nOther Commonwealth Games medalists not already listed above:\n\nGerald Backhouse AUS – Frank Handley ENG – Alan Simpson ENG – Albie Thomas AUS – Ben Jipcho KEN – Benedict Cayenne TRI – Bill Dale CAN – Bill Parnell CAN – Brian Hewson ENG – Chris McGeorge ENG – Dave Campbell CAN – Dick Quax NZL – Willie Botha SAF – Ian Boyd ENG – Ian Studd NZL – Jack Hutchins CAN – James \"Hamish\" Stothard SCO – Jim Alford WAL – John Gladwin ENG – John Kipkurgat KEN – John Robson SCO – Kevin Sullivan CAN – Kris McCarthy AUS – Len Eyre ENG – Matthew Yates ENG – Maurice Marshall NZL – Merv Lincoln AUS – Michael East ENG – Noel Clough AUS – Peter Bourke AUS – Peter Lemashon KEN – Peter O'Donoghue NZL/AUS – Reg Thomas WAL – Reuben Chesang KEN – Rich Ferguson CAN – Robert Ouko KEN – Sammy Tirop KEN – Savieri Ngidhi ZIM – Seymour Newman JAM – Terry Sullivan FRN – Tony Blue AUS – Vernon \"Pat\" Boot NZL – William Smart CAN – William Whyte AUS – Youcef Abdi AUS\n\nOther European Athletics Championships medalists not already listed above:\n\nBill Nankeville GBR – Erik Jørgensen DEN – Frank Murphy IRL – Hans-Peter Ferner FRG – Harald Norpoth FRG – Jacques Lévèque FRA – John Whetton GBR – Jorma Härkönen FIN – Joseph Mostert BEL – Klaus-Peter Justus GDR – Lucien De Muynck BEL – Lukas Vydra CZE – Markku Taskinen FIN – Miklós Szabó HUN – Paul Schmidt FRG – Piotr Piekarski POL – Roger Normand FRA – Rudolf Harbig GER – Rune Gustafsson SWE – Tom Birger Hansen DEN – Tomá Salinger TCH – Valeriy Bulyshev URS – Witold Baran POL – Marcin Lewandowski POL – Michael Rimmer GBR – Adam Kszczot POL\n"}
{"id": "1898619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898619", "title": "Cheng Kun", "text": "Cheng Kun\n\nCheng Kun may refer to the following people:\n\n"}
{"id": "1898620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898620", "title": "January 28 incident", "text": "January 28 incident\n\nThe January 28 incident or Shanghai incident (January 28 – March 3, 1932) was a conflict between the Republic of China and the Empire of Japan. It took place in the Shanghai International Settlement which was under international control. Japanese army officers, defying higher authorities, had provoked anti-Japanese demonstrations in the international District of Shanghai. A Chinese mob attacked Japanese Buddhist priests, killing one. Heavy fighting broke out, and China appealed with no success to the League of Nations. A truce was finally reached on May 5, calling for Japanese military withdrawal, and an end to Chinese boycotts of Japanese products. Internationally, the episode intensified opposition to Japan's aggression in Asia. The episode helped undermine civilian rule in Tokyo; Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi was assassinated on May 15, 1932. \n\nIn Chinese literature it is known as the \"January 28 incident\" (), while in Western sources it is often called the \"Shanghai War of 1932\" or the \"Shanghai incident\". In Japan it is known as the \"first Shanghai incident\", alluding to the \"second Shanghai incident\", which is the Japanese name for the Battle of Shanghai that occurred during the opening stages of the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937.\n\nAfter the Mukden Incident, Japan had acquired control over Manchuria and would eventually establish the puppet government of Manchukuo. However, the Japanese military planned to increase Japanese influence further, especially into Shanghai where Japan, along with the various western powers, had extraterritorial rights. On January 18, five Japanese Buddhist monks, members of an ardently nationalist sect, were beaten near Shanghai's Sanyou Factory () by agitated Chinese civilians. Two were seriously injured, and one died. Over the next few hours, a group burnt down the factory.\n\nOne policeman was killed and several more hurt when they arrived to quell the disorder. This caused an upsurge of anti-Japanese and anti-imperialist protests in the city and its concessions, with Chinese residents of Shanghai marching onto the streets and calling for a boycott of Japanese-made goods.\n\nThe situation continued to deteriorate over the next week. By January 27, the Japanese military had already concentrated some 30 ships, 40 airplanes and nearly 7,000 troops around the shoreline of Shanghai to put down any resistance in the event that violence broke out. The military's justification was that it had to defend its concession and citizens. The Japanese issued an ultimatum to the Shanghai Municipal Council demanding public condemnation and monetary compensation by the Chinese for any Japanese property damaged in the monk incident, and demanding that the Chinese government take active steps to suppress further anti-Japanese protests in the city. During the afternoon of January 28, the Shanghai Municipal Council agreed to these demands.\n\nThroughout this period, the Chinese 19th Route Army had been massing outside the city, causing consternation to the civil Chinese administration of Shanghai and the foreign-run concessions. The 19th Route Army was generally viewed as little more than a warlord force, posing as great a danger to Shanghai as the Japanese military. In the end, Shanghai donated a substantial bribe to the 19th Route Army, hoping that it would leave and not incite a Japanese attack.\nHowever, at midnight on January 28, Japanese carrier aircraft bombed Shanghai in the first major aircraft carrier action in East Asia. Barbara W. Tuchman described this as also being \"the first terror bombing of a civilian population of an era that was to become familiar with it\", preceding the Condor Legion's bombing of Guernica by five years. Three thousand Japanese troops attacked targets, such as the Shanghai North railway station, around the city and began an invasion of the \"de facto\" Japanese settlement in Hongkew and other areas north of Suzhou Creek. In what was a surprising about-face for many, the 19th Route Army, which many had expected to leave after having been paid, put up fierce resistance.\n\nThough the opening battles took place in the Hongkew district of the International Settlement, the conflict soon spread outwards to much of Chinese-controlled Shanghai. The majority of the concessions remained untouched by the conflict, and it was often the case that those in the Shanghai International Settlement would watch the war from the banks of Suzhou Creek. They could even visit the battle lines by virtue of their extraterritoriality. On January 30, Chiang Kai-shek decided to temporarily relocate the capital from Nanjing to Luoyang as an emergency measure, due to the fact that Nanjing's proximity to Shanghai could make it a target.\n\nBecause Shanghai was a metropolitan city with many foreign interests invested in it, other countries, such as the United States, the United Kingdom and France, attempted to negotiate a ceasefire between Japan and China. However, Japan refused, instead continuing to mobilize troops in the region. On February 12, American, British and French representatives brokered a half-day cease fire for humanitarian relief to civilians caught in the crossfire.\n\nThe same day, the Japanese issued another ultimatum, demanding that the Chinese Army retreat 20 km from the border of the Shanghai concessions, a demand promptly rejected. This only intensified fighting in Hongkew. The Japanese were unable to take the city by the middle of February. Subsequently, the number of Japanese troops was increased to nearly 90,000 with the arrival of the 9th Infantry Division and the IJA 24th Mixed Brigade, supported by 80 warships and 300 airplanes.\n\nOn February 14, Chiang Kai-shek sent the 5th Army, including the 87th and 88th divisions, into Shanghai.\n\nOn February 20, Japanese bombardments were increased to force the Chinese away from their defensive positions near Miaohang, while commercial and residential districts of the city were set on fire. The Chinese defensive positions deteriorated rapidly without naval and armored support, with the number of defenders dwindling to fewer than 50,000. Japanese forces increased to over a 100,000 troops, backed by aerial and naval bombardments.\n\nOn February 28, after a week of fierce fighting characterized by the stubborn resistance of the Cantonese troops, the Japanese, supported by superior artillery, took the village of Kiangwan (now Jiangwanzhen), north of Shanghai.\n\nOn February 29, the Japanese 11th Infantry Division landed near Liuhe behind Chinese lines. The defenders launched a desperate counterattack from 1 March, but were unable to dislodge the Japanese. On March 2, the 19th Route Army issued a telegram stating that it was necessary to withdraw from Shanghai due to lack of supplies and manpower. The next day, the 19th Route Army and the 5th Army retreated from Shanghai, marking the official end of the battle.\n\nOn March 4, the League of Nations passed a resolution demanding a ceasefire, though sporadic fighting persisted. On March 6, the Chinese unilaterally agreed to stop fighting, although the Japanese rejected the ceasefire. On March 14, representatives from the League of Nations arrived at Shanghai to broker a negotiation with the Japanese. While negotiations were going on, intermittent fighting continued in both outlying areas and the city itself.\n\nOn May 5, China and Japan signed the Shanghai Ceasefire Agreement (). The agreement made Shanghai a demilitarized zone and forbade China to garrison troops in areas surrounding Shanghai, Suzhou, and Kunshan, while allowing the presence of a few Japanese units in the city. China was allowed to keep only a small police force within the city.\n\nAfter the ceasefire was brokered, the 19th Army was reassigned by Chiang Kai-shek to suppress the Chinese Communist insurrection in Fujian. After winning some battles against the communists, a peace agreement was negotiated. On November 22, the leadership of the 19th Route Army revolted against the Kuomintang government, and established the Fujian People's Government, independent of the Republic of China. This new government was not supported by all elements of the communists and was quickly crushed by Chiang's armies in January 1934. The leaders of the 19th Route Army escaped to Hong Kong, and the rest of the army was disbanded and reassigned to other units of the National Revolutionary Army.\n\nYoshinori Shirakawa, the commander of the Shanghai Expeditionary Army and joint leader of the Japanese forces, was severely wounded by Korean nationalist Yoon Bong-Gil during a birthday celebration for Emperor Hirohito held at Shanghai's Hongkou Park and died of his injuries on May 26.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898621", "title": "Proton City", "text": "Proton City\n\nProton City (Chinese: 宝腾城) (tagged as “\"City of the Future\"”) is a township with industrial, commercial and residential activities spread over 4,000 acres (16 km²) in Muallim District, Perak, Malaysia. It houses the RM1.8 billion Proton car assembly plant.\n\nTo be fully developed by 2020, Proton City aims to be home to Malaysia's automobile industry. Undertaken by Proton City Development Corp Sdn Bhd, a joint venture between DRB-Hicom Bhd and Proton Bhd, itself a core member of Proton Holdings Bhd, it started in 1996 with an initial investment of RM2.5 billion, beginning with the construction of the Proton plant. The Proton plant has a workforce of more than 2,000 and most of them are expected to live in the area. When Proton City is fully developed, it would have a population of about 240,000.\n\nThe first settlement in the area - 252 units of apartments - have been handed over to the buyers. These apartments have common facilities that include car and motorcycle parking bays, children's playground, BBQ area, car wash areas, mosque and a nursery/kindergarten on the ground floor of each block and a multipurpose hall. Parcels 19 and 20 when completed in 2007 will have 1,091 apartments, 336 units of single- and double-storey terrace houses, 86 semi-detached houses, 37 bungalows and 36 shop-offices.\n\nProton City is also expected to be home to students and staff of the Sultan Idris Education University (UPSI), which a few years ago was known as Sultan Idris Teachers' College, one of the country's oldest teachers' training institutions. UPSI, occupying 800 acres (3.2 km²) within Proton City, is expected to have a student population of 20,000 within four years.\n\nThe next phase of development at Proton City is the industrial component, which will see the construction of 81 factory lots for the national car's vendors. Other public amenities such as schools, mosque, park, recreational club and man-made wetlands of 24 acres (97,000 m²) with a large lake, water storage towers, air quality control station, fire station and power station will also be built in the coming months.\n\nModern technology will be put to full use, with a command centre that will monitor all smart home systems. There will be intelligent traffic control, telemedicine, e-commerce and other “k-society” amenities and services integrated into living within Proton City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898630", "title": "PSNA College of Engineering and Technology", "text": "PSNA College of Engineering and Technology\n\nPSNA College of Engineering & Technology (PSNA CET) is an Engineering College situated in Kothandaraman Nagar, Dindigul, in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe College was founded in 1984 by the late Thiru R.S. Kothandaraman. The college functions under the aegis of Sri Rangalatchumi Educational Trust and is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education.\n\nThe campus is situated near the village Muthanampatti, about from Dindigul, along the National Highway, NH 83 towards Palani. It is spread over 45 hectares.\n\n\nyear*\n\nFollowing programs are accredited by NAC, AICTE.\n\nPSNA received the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan - National Award (2007) from the Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) for best overall performance. This is jointly awarded to this college and P.S.G. College of Technology Coimbatore\n"}
{"id": "1898647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898647", "title": "Singlet oxygen", "text": "Singlet oxygen\n\nSinglet oxygen, systematically named dioxygen(singlet) and dioxidene, is a gaseous inorganic chemical with the formula O=O (also written as or ), which is in a quantum state where all electrons are spin paired. It is kinetically unstable at ambient temperature, however the rate of decay is slow.\n\nThe lowest excited state of the diatomic oxygen molecule is a singlet state.\nIt is a gas with physical properties differing only subtly from those of the more prevalent triplet ground state of O. In terms of its chemical reactivity, however, singlet oxygen is far more reactive toward organic compounds. It is responsible for the photodegradation of many materials but can be put to constructive use in preparative organic chemistry and photodynamic therapy. Trace amounts of singlet oxygen are found in the upper atmosphere and also in polluted urban atmospheres where it contributes to the formation of lung-damaging nitrogen dioxide. It often appears and coexists confounded in environments that also generate ozone, such as pine forests with photodegradation of turpentine.\n\nThe terms 'singlet oxygen' and 'triplet oxygen' derive from each form's number of electron spins. The singlet has only one possible arrangement of electron spins with a total quantum spin of 0, while the triplet has three possible arrangements of electron spins with a total quantum spin of 1, corresponding to three degenerate states.\n\nIn spectroscopic notation, the lowest singlet and triplet forms of O are labeled Δ and Σ, respectively.\n\nSinglet oxygen refers to one of two singlet electronic excited states. The two singlet states are denoted Σ and Δ (the preceding superscript \"1\" indicates a singlet state). The singlet states of oxygen are 158 and 95 kilojoules per mole higher in energy than the triplet ground state of oxygen. Under most common laboratory conditions, the higher energy Σ singlet state rapidly converts to the more stable, lower energy Δ singlet state. This more stable of the two excited states has its two valence electrons spin-paired in one π* orbital while the second π* orbital is empty. This state is referred to by the title term, \"singlet oxygen\", commonly abbreviated O, to distinguish it from the triplet ground state molecule, O.\n\nMolecular orbital theory predicts the electronic ground state denoted by the molecular term symbol Σ, and two low-lying excited singlet states with term symbols Δ and Σ. These three electronic states differ only in the spin and the occupancy of oxygen's two antibonding π-orbitals, which are degenerate (equal in energy). These two orbitals are classified as antibonding and are of higher energy. Following Hund's first rule, in the ground state, these electrons are unpaired and have like (same) spin. This open-shell triplet ground state of molecular oxygen differs from most stable diatomic molecules, which have singlet (Σ) ground states.\n\nTwo less stable, higher energy excited states are readily accessible from this ground state, again in accordance with Hund's first rule; the first moves one of the high energy unpaired ground state electrons from one degenerate orbital to the other, where it \"flips\" and pairs the other, and creates a new state, a singlet state referred to as the Δ state (a term symbol, where the preceding superscripted \"1\" indicates it as a singlet state). Alternatively, both electrons can remain in their degenerate ground state orbitals, but the spin of one can \"flip\" so that it is now opposite to the second (i.e., it is still in a separate degenerate orbital, but no longer of like spin); this also creates a new state, a singlet state referred to as the Σ state. The ground and first two singlet excited states of oxygen can be described by the simple scheme in the figure below.\n\nThe Δ singlet state is 7882.4 cm above the triplet Σ ground state., which in other units corresponds to 94.29 kJ/mol or 0.9773 eV. The Σ singlet is 13 120.9 cm (157.0 kJ/mol or 1.6268 eV) above the ground state.\n\nRadiative transitions between the three low-lying electronic states of oxygen are formally forbidden as electric dipole processes. The two singlet-triplet transitions are forbidden both because of the spin selection rule ΔS = 0 and because of the parity rule that g-g transitions are forbidden. The singlet-singlet transition between the two excited states is spin-allowed but parity-forbidden.\n\nThe lower, O(Δ) state is commonly referred to as \"singlet oxygen\". The energy difference of 94.3 kJ/mol between ground state and singlet oxygen corresponds to a forbidden singlet-triplet transition in the near-infrared at ~1270 nm. As a consequence, singlet oxygen in the gas phase is relatively long lived (54-86 miliseconds), although interaction with solvents reduces the lifetime to microseconds or even nanoseconds.\n\nThe higher Σ state is very short lived. In the gas phase, it relaxes primarily to the ground state triplet with a mean lifetime of 11.8 s. However in solvents such as CS and CCl, it relaxes to the lower singlet Δ in milliseconds due to nonradiative decay channels.\n\nBoth singlet oxygen states have no unpaired electrons and therefore no net electron spin. The Δ is however paramagnetic as shown by the observation of an electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectrum. The paramagnetism is due to a net \"orbital\" (and not spin) electronic angular momentum. In a magnetic field the degeneracy of the π* level is split into two levels corresponding to molecular orbitals with angular momenta +1\"ħ\" and −1\"ħ\" around the molecular axis. In the Δ state one of these orbitals is doubly occupied and the other empty, so that transitions are possible between the two.\n\nVarious methods for the production of singlet oxygen exist. Irradiation of oxygen gas in the presence of an organic dye as a sensitizer, such as rose bengal, methylene blue, or porphyrins—a photochemical method—results in its production. Large steady state concentrations of singlet oxygen are reported from the reaction of triplet excited state pyruvic acid with dissolved oxygen in water. Singlet oxygen can also be in non-photochemical, preparative chemical procedures. One chemical method involves the decomposition of triethylsilyl hydrotrioxide generated \"in situ\" from triethylsilane and ozone.\n\nAnother method uses the aqueous reaction of hydrogen peroxide with sodium hypochlorite:\n\nA third method liberates singlet oxygen via phosphite ozonides, which are, in turn, generated \"in situ.\" Phosphite ozonides will decompose to give singlet oxygen:\n\nAn advantage of this method is that it is amenable to non-aqueous conditions.\n\nBecause of differences in their electron shells, singlet and triplet oxygen differ in their chemical properties; singlet oxygen is highly reactive. The lifetime of singlet oxygen depends on the medium. In normal organic solvents, the lifetime is only a few microseconds whereas in solvents lacking C-H bonds, the lifetime can be as long as seconds.\n\nUnlike ground state oxygen, singlet oxygen participates in Diels–Alder [4+2]- and [2+2]-cycloaddition reactions and formal concerted ene reactions. It oxidizes thioethers to sulfoxides. Organometallic complexes are often degraded by singlet oxygen. With some substrates 1,2-dioxetanes are formed; cyclic dienes such as 1,3-cyclohexadiene form [4+2] cycloaddition adducts.\n\nThe [4+2]-cycloaddition between singlet oxygen and furans is widely used in organic synthesis. \n\nIn singlet oxygen reactions with alkenic allyl groups, e.g., citronella, shown, by abstraction of the allylic proton, in an ene-like reaction, yielding the allyl hydroperoxide, R–O–OH (R = alkyl), which can then be reduced to the corresponding allylic alcohol.\nIn reactions with water trioxidane, an unusual molecule with three consecutive linked oxygen atoms, is formed.\n\nIn photosynthesis, singlet oxygen can be produced from the light-harvesting chlorophyll molecules. One of the roles of carotenoids in photosynthetic systems is to prevent damage caused by produced singlet oxygen by either removing excess light energy from chlorophyll molecules or quenching the singlet oxygen molecules directly.\n\nIn mammalian biology, singlet oxygen is one of the reactive oxygen species, which is linked to oxidation of LDL cholesterol and resultant cardiovascular effects. Polyphenol antioxidants can scavenge and reduce concentrations of reactive oxygen species and may prevent such deleterious oxidative effects.\n\nIngestion of pigments capable of producing singlet oxygen with activation by light can produce severe photosensitivity of skin (see phototoxicity, photosensitivity in humans, photodermatitis, phytophotodermatitis). This is especially a concern in herbivorous animals (see Photosensitivity in animals).\n\nSinglet oxygen is the active species in photodynamic therapy.\n\nDirect detection of singlet oxygen is possible using sensitive laser spectroscopy or through its extremely weak phosphorescence at 1270 nm, which is not visible. However, at high singlet oxygen concentrations, the fluorescence of the singlet oxygen \"dimol\" species—simultaneous emission from two singlet oxygen molecules upon collision—can be observed as a red glow at 634 nm and 703 nm.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898649", "title": "Cagiva", "text": "Cagiva\n\nCagiva is an Italian motorcycle manufacturer. It was founded in 1950 by Giovanni Castiglioni in Varese, originally producing small metal components. Giovanni's sons, Claudio and Gianfranco Castiglioni went into the motorcycle industry in 1978. The name is a portmanteau derived from the founder's name 'Giovanni Castiglioni' and the founding location, i.e. \"CAstiglioni GIovanni VArese\".\n\nIn its history, Cagiva won races in Dakar and Motocross competitions, as well as in Grand Prix motorcycle racing.\n\nIn 1978 Cagiva entered the motorcycle business with two racing motorcycles ridden by Gianfranco Bonera and Marco Lucchinelli. In the same year it bought a factory in Varese's frazione of Schiranna from Aermacchi/AMF-Harley-Davidson and went into motorcycle production. By 1979 the company reached an annual production of 40,000 motorbikes, with eight models powered by two-stroke engines ranging from 125 cc to 350 cc.\n\nMany of the Harley-Davidson models were continued in production as Cagivas, and the off-road motorcycle division was improved and expanded, eventually producing its own race-winning WMX series of moto-cross motorcycles.\nIn 1983 Cagiva also sourced Ducati four stroke v-twin engines from 350 cc to 1000 cc and entered the big displacement market. Cagiva bought Ducati in 1985, but kept the Ducati brand that was better recognized outside Italy. Ducati motorcycle production continued in Bologna, while the Varese-built Cagiva Ala Azzurra (sold under the name \"Alazzurra\", \"Bluewing\") and Elefant were introduced, both featuring Ducati engines.\n\nCagiva continued with strategic buyouts of Moto Morini in 1985 and Husqvarna in 1987. In 1991 Cagiva also bought the trademarks for the MV Agusta brand.\n\nIn 1996, Cagiva accepted the offer by the Texas Pacific Group and sold the Ducati and Moto Morini brands. In 1999, for strategic purposes, the company was restructured. MV Agusta Motor become the main brand comprising Cagiva and Husqvarna.\n\nIn 2000, production of the Cagiva Roadster ended. In 2008, Harley-Davidson bought MV Agusta Motor, the parent company of Cagiva, thereby regaining some control of its old Aermacchi factory.\n\nIn October 2009, Harley-Davidson informed that it would put Cagiva up for sale. In the August of the following year, Cagiva was bought back by the son of the founder and former owner Claudio Castiglioni.\n\nIn 2012, production of new high engine capacity Mitos ended. Increasingly stringent environmental emission requirements and the concentration of resources on MV Agusta's F3 were cited as reasons. The last few Mito SP525s produced were white in colour, and personally signed by MV Agusta CEO Giovanni Castiglioni, thus ended the legacy of the Mito, alongside the end of the Raptors.\n\nLast Cagiva-branded bikes were Raptor and Mito 125cc. The Cagiva brand is no longer active, the production being focused on MV Agusta.\n\nIn the early 1980s Cagiva began to manufacture dirt bikes and started a massive public relations program with the opening of its North American branch. It hired Ron Turner and Duane Summers to test and develop its bikes. Cagiva motocross bikes were characterized by their fast powerful engines and innovative features, such as the MX line that had only one spring in the front forks with one fork controlling rebound and the other compression.\n\nAt the end of the 1970s the company began campaigning the Grand Prix motorcycle racing circuit. Randy Mamola was its lead rider from 1988 to 1990, and he achieved Cagiva’s first podium result. It would also have some technical assistance from Yamaha. In 1991 it signed former world champion Eddie Lawson to its team. Lawson would claim the company's first victory when he won the 1992 Hungarian Grand Prix. John Kocinski would also win a Grand Prix on a Cagiva GP500 (C594), finishing third in the 1994 world championship.\n\nIn 1990 and 1994 the Italian rider Edi Orioli won the Dakar Rally on the Ducati-powered Cagiva Elefant.\n\n\nCagiva bought BMCs design for the Mini Moke, manufacturing them in Portugal using British built engines from 1990 until 1993. Intending to transfer production to the Bologna factory early in 1995, the tooling for the Moke was transferred to Italy late in 1993, but production never restarted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1898656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898656", "title": "Battle of Xuzhou", "text": "Battle of Xuzhou\n\nThe Battle of Xuzhou was a military conflict between the Empire of Japan and the Republic of China forces in May 1938 during the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nIn 1937 the North China Area Army had chased Song Zheyuan's 29th Army to the south along the Jinpu Railway (see Tianjin–Pukou Railway Operation) after his defeat in the Battle of Lugou Bridge. After Japan won the Battle of Nanjing, the North China Area Army advanced southward to establish a Japanese connection between Beijing and Nanjing, ignoring the non-expansionist policy of the Imperial General Headquarters in Tokyo. Most mechanized and air forces in eastern China were wiped out in the Battle of Shanghai in 1937. Although new equipment was purchased, it had yet to be shipped. Han Fuqu, the chairman of the Shandong province, rejected orders from Chiang Kai-shek and kept retreating to preserve his force. After Qingdao was occupied in January 1938, his policy was denounced and he was executed on 24 January. In March 1938 Japanese forces occupied the north of Shandong, including the capital city Jinan. The defense line along the Yellow River was torn apart. Due to pressure from Japanese forces, 64 Chinese divisions gathered around Xuzhou in Jiangsu, the headquarters of 5th Military Region of the National Revolutionary Army. Without surrounding it, Gen. Itagaki Seishiro moved south first to attack Tai'erzhuang, where he was defeated by Li Zongren in a regional asymmetric battle.\n\nFollowing this defeat Japan intended an encirclement against Xuzhou and deployed the North China Area Army to the north and the Central China Expeditionary Army to the south. The North China Area Army had four divisions and two infantry brigades drawn from the Kwantung Army. Central China Expeditionary Army had three divisions and the 1st and 2nd Tank Battalions with motorized support units formed into the Iwanaka and Imada Detachments, which were ordered to advance to the west of Xuzhou to cut off and prevent Chinese forces from withdrawing towards the west. The 5th Tank Battalion was used to support the 3rd Infantry Division advancing north along the railway to Xuzhou. Additional troops were deployed in the Battle of Northern and Eastern Henan by the North China Area Army to stop Chinese reinforcements from the west. A Chinese counterattack here resulted in the Battle of Lanfeng. However, with the approach of the Central China Expeditionary Army from the south, the overall situation was grim, and Chiang Kai-shek ordered the withdrawal of the armies. The demolition of the dykes holding back the Yellow River allowed him more time for the preparation of the defense of Wuhan, but the resulting 1938 Yellow River flood also destroyed much of the area around the new course of the river.\n\nThe Japanese army won the fierce battle and ultimately captured Xuzhou, but Japanese forces were too small to contain the large number of encircled Chinese troops. Most of the Chinese soldiers broke through the encirclement through gaps in the Japanese lines to the west or dispersed into the countryside as guerrillas. The Chinese troops who broke through the encirclement would play a major role in later battles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898660", "title": "Music on hold", "text": "Music on hold\n\nMusic on hold (MOH) is the business practice of playing recorded music to fill the silence that would be heard by telephone callers who have been placed on hold. It is especially common in situations involving customer service.\n\nMusic on hold is sometimes referred to as phone on hold, message on hold, on hold messaging, or hold music.\n\nMusic on hold was created by Alfred Levy, an inventor, factory owner, and entrepreneur. In 1962, Levy discovered a problem with the phone lines at his factory : a loose wire was touching a metal girder on the building. This made the building a giant receiver so that the audio broadcast signal from a radio station next door would transmit through the loose wire and could be heard when calls were put on hold. Levy patented his work in 1966. While other advancements have come to change and enhance the technology, it was this initial patent creation that began the evolution for today's music on hold.\n\nMost MOH systems are integrated into a telephone system designed for businesses via an audio jack on the telephone equipment labeled \"MOH\". There are also some units with built-in message on hold capabilities and units designed for small businesses without an extensive phone system.\n\nToday, equipment that supports physical media usually plays CDs. Some older systems may still use cassette tapes (sometimes employing endless-loops), or reel-to-reel tape players. In each case, the unit loads the media into a digital memory chip to prevent premature wearing of the mechanical parts.\n\nEquipment that supports virtual media generally plays MP3 files. Several types of units play these files. USB flash drive units allow an MP3 file to be received electronically, downloaded to a flash drive and connected to the player. Ethernet based remote load units connect via the network to a remote IP address. Phone line based remote load systems allow for a connection via an analog telephone line and dialing the number belonging to the unit. For VoIP phone systems, MP3s are loaded without any equipment.\n\nNewer technology allows MP3 files to be downloaded automatically from the internet so that messages (or interesting content in the form of news and weather, amongst many) can be changed daily. The new \"online on hold\" technology makes the older technology redundant since it requires no additional hardware. All these systems allow analog-to-digital audio storage and playback.\n\nAs of 2011 technology allows productions to be downloaded or streamed via the Internet or played through a USB flash drive.\n\nA number of studies have been conducted, which highlight consumer perceptions of music on hold, reinforcing its use by businesses to improve standards of call handling.\n\nA survey of more than 2,000 UK consumers commissioned by audio branding specialist PHMG revealed 70% of consumers are put on hold for more than 50% of their calls. When put on hold, 73% of callers want to hear something other than beeps or silence.\n\nA CNN survey found that 70 percent of callers in the United States who hold the line in silence hang up within 60 seconds. Meanwhile, research by North American Telecom found callers hearing music on hold will stay on the line 30 seconds longer than callers experiencing silence.\n\nThe musical source may be as simple as playing a local radio station through the MOH jack. This is unlawful without the express permission of the music title and mechanical copyright holders, or their representatives.\n\nOwners of radio stations will usually air their broadcast signal as music on hold, using their main program signal, if there are several. Examples include RÚV from Iceland using Rás 1 as the on-hold music.\n\nCommercial CDs eliminate the problems encountered with radio commercials, and they offer control over the selection of music; they do not, however, grant proper license for MOH use unless users first obtain permission from the song title copyright owner (when the song is not in the \"public domain\") and the mechanical copyright owner, or bodies that represent them, such as BMI or ASCAP. (See \"Radio,\" above, for more details.)\n\nCDs are available that have been specifically recorded and licensed for MOH systems. These may contain only music, or may include periodic voice-overs with messages such as \"Your call is important\" or \"Please stay on the line\". Such off-the-shelf recordings may be generic or may be specific to individual industries, but will not be customized for individual companies.\n\nIn general, custom music on hold is advised to:\n\nCDs (or other MOH formats, such as MP3 files) can be custom-created to suit the particular needs of a business. The announcements can be scripted to emphasize particular attributes of the business such as location, store hours, or special promotions or services. These are typically used for up-selling and cross-selling callers. Companies can either record the messages themselves, or hire a music on hold production company.\n\nA program loaded onto an existing computer and connected to the phone system can allow automatic content updates interspersed with company information.\n\nStreaming MOH refers to a live music on hold stream (URL-based delivery) which can also include custom content. Streaming MOH can also refer to a streaming media server, as with Cisco Unified Call Manager, in which case RTP format is utilized.\n\nPrograms available to non-profit organizations at no cost. Very few companies offer absolutely free programs. The programs are available in generic and custom formats, and are delivered at no cost to the requesting organization.\n\nThe style of music played by MOH systems depends largely on the type of business offering the service. It is generally best to present music that will not be offensive to the audience, but that would also be of particular interest to the typical caller. A western apparel store may choose to play country music. A Christian book store may choose to play popular Christian music. A university may choose to play classical music. An athletic ticket office may choose to play the team or school's fight song. Light classics, smooth jazz, and beautiful music are common choices, as is fully synthesized melodic music.\n\nAmong the best known is \"Opus Number One\", largely forgotten by Tim Carleton and high-school friend Darrick Deel, the teenagers that recorded it on a four-track tape recorder in 1989. Deel went on to work for Cisco in building the company's first VoIP phone. When a need for default on hold music came up, he recalled the track he and Carleton had recorded and reached out to Carleton for approval. \n\nWith the application of newer equipment, music on hold devices can now interact with the caller. No additional programs are required on the platform, as all the logic is done with the MoH device. This can include services such as 'polling on hold', rating your customer service officer anonymously, etc. \n\nThe trend toward hosted IP telephony for business phone systems is demanding changes in music on hold message technology.\n\nIn the US, and other countries where copyright laws are practiced, authors are granted copyright protection on their musical compositions. Such copyright protection has existed since just after the turn of the 20th century and most music written prior to 1900–1910—from impressionism back to baroque and antiquity are said to be \"in the public domain.\" Use of any said music prior to the creation of these copyright laws may be presumed to be free for use by all—although individual titles may have been later copyrighted through a change in the composition or arrangement. The use of copyrighted music is not for free use in the public domain.\n\nAll music written after this period, which is copyrighted under multiple acts of congress, are owned by the author(s) or their assignees. The use of this music is protected and controlled in order that the owner may derive usage income. Specific to telephonic MOH (music-on-hold), the US laws currently protect the copyright owners from unlawful, unpermitted use of their music titles in over-the-phone broadcast. Any person or business wishing to use current, popular, post 1900–1910, copyrighted music for MOH purposes may only lawfully do so by obtaining permission from the owner. Currently, performance rights societies such as ASCAP, BMI and SESAC will sell blanket permission to use music titles in their catalog for MOH purposes—for an express annual fee—calculated by size and frequency of usage. Failure to obtain this paid permission is a violation of US copyright laws.\n\nThis same copyright protection is also true in the rebroadcast of any radio program. As mentioned earlier, the broadcaster has been assigned a narrow and specific usage license to air copyrighted song titles. This does not include permission to any person or business to re-broadcast that program on telephonic MOH. The broadcaster may not promote such unlawful use and is not an owner who has any lawful right to grant MOH usage permission. They do not hold the ownership of the title and have no right to license use in any way. Those who plug radio broadcast into their telephone MOH without first obtaining paid permission through the owner's agents (ASCAP, BMI or SESAC) may be in violation of copyright law and may be prosecuted under existing federal laws.\n\nA second copyright exists when it comes to licensing use for telephonic MOH. A piece of music, as mentioned above, is copyrighted and may be licensed for use as a music title and is understood to be a combination of melody, harmony and, where applicable, lyrics. However, neither radio listeners nor MOH listeners could hear this music unless it was recorded - providing a delivery medium whereby the \"music\" becomes a \"performance.\" As mentioned elsewhere, in countries such as the US, where said copyright laws are enforced, nearly every recording of a song title holds its own \"mechanical copyright.\"\n\nFor most of the 20th century, music was recorded in studios, produced by record company executives, producers, arrangers and engineers who were hired to deliver the artist's finished recordings for mastering and duplication—for sale on the varied media: 78, 45 and 33 RPM vinyl, reel-to-reel, 8-track tape, cassette and compact disc. To protect their investment, the record companies obtain a mechanical copyright in order to protect and control the recording with which they derive usage and sales income. (For those still uncertain of the difference between \"song title\" and \"mechanical\" copyrights, consider the Capitol Records lawsuit for copyright infringement against Nike some 20 years ago. Nike legally obtained permission to use the Beatles song title \"Revolution\" from the title's owner, Michael Jackson. They used the Capitol Records owned recording of the Beatles' performance, but failed to obtain and pay for permission and use. Capitol Records sued and prevailed because Nike ONLY had a license to use the title and did not have a license to use the mechanical recording.)\n\nTherefore, persons or businesses wishing to play music that falls \"in the public domain\" are still legally required to obtain permission to use the mechanical recording of this music, from the mechanical copyright holder. And where the use is of copyrighted music, the same applies. In all cases, before a song title may be broadcast on a telephone MOH, said use must be approved and licensed from BOTH the \"song title\" copyright owner (if it is NOT in public domain) and the \"mechanical\" copyright owner.\n\nIt is generally known within the on-hold industry that some performance rights societies, with regional offices and staff, both monitor and prosecute persons and businesses that infringe on the copyright of title holders in their libraries. ASCAP and BMI are both aggressive about this, from time to time. It is not known whether any record companies are currently or actively monitoring and prosecuting violators of their mechanical license.\n\nAs of 2010, the music-on-hold/message-on-hold business was a 100+ million dollar industry with more than 300 different vendors to choose from producing custom content amounting to less than $1m in sales per company—including various manufacturers of specific-duty, message-on-hold devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898674", "title": "Warner Park Sporting Complex", "text": "Warner Park Sporting Complex\n\nWarner Park Sporting Complex is an athletic facility in Basseterre, St. Kitts, St. Kitts and Nevis. It includes the Warner Park Stadium, which was one of the hosts for the 2007 Cricket World Cup. It is named after Sir Thomas Warner, the explorer who established the first English colony on St. Kitts.\n\nThe eastern segment contains the cricket pitch, pavilion, media centre and seating for 4,000 which can be increased with temporary stands to 10,000 for major events. The stadium was largely financed by Taiwan with donations totalling $2.74 million. The total project cost US$12 million, half for the cricket stadium and half for the football facilities.\n\nThe western segment contains the football stadium, with seating for 3,500. In the northern section of the park, there are three tennis courts, three netball / volleyball courts, the Len Harris Cricket Academy, and a small open savannah, Carnival City, used primarily for hosting Carnival events.\n\nA total of seven five-wicket hauls have been taken at Warner Park, one in a Test match and six in ODIs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898692", "title": "Chris Reitsma", "text": "Chris Reitsma\n\nChristopher Michael Reitsma (born December 31, 1977) is Canadian American former right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. He played seven seasons in the majors, from until , with the Cincinnati Reds, Atlanta Braves, and Seattle Mariners.\n\nReitsma, drafted in the first round of the 1996 Major League Baseball draft by the Boston Red Sox (34th overall), made his Major League debut in 2001 for the Cincinnati Reds. After spending three seasons with the Reds as both a starter and reliever, the Atlanta Braves traded for him on March 26, 2004 to bolster their bullpen.\n\nReitsma was used as a setup man for Atlanta's closer John Smoltz in 2004. He appeared in 84 games and did a serviceable job, however he was shelled in Game 5 of the 2004 National League Division Series against the Houston Astros, allowing the game to be broken open, and essentially ending the Braves' season.\n\nIn , with newly acquired closer Danny Kolb getting off to a rough start, the Braves elected to use Reitsma as the closer rather than returning John Smoltz to that role. Reitsma did relatively well, earning 15 saves, but on the last day of non-waiver trades, the Braves traded for relief pitcher Kyle Farnsworth from the Detroit Tigers. Farnsworth soon replaced Reitsma as the closer, sending Reitsma back to being a setup man.\n\nWith the Braves unable to retain Farnsworth, who signed with the New York Yankees following the 2005 season, the team feverishly searched to fill the closer's role through free agency or a trade. However, they were not able to find anyone to fill the hole left by Farnsworth's departure, and because of this, Reitsma had numerous chances to be the Braves' closer in . However, he proved to be ineffective in the job throughout his abbreviated season.\n\nOn July 3, 2006, Reitsma was placed on the disabled list with ulnar neuritis in his right arm. He spent the rest of the season on the disabled list. Bob Wickman was brought in to replace Reitsma near the trade deadline, and after performing well, Wickman was signed to a contract in the offseason by the Braves.\n\nReitsma was non-tendered by the Braves on December 12, 2006. The Seattle Mariners signed him to a one-year deal with a club option for on January 5, 2007, to be their setup man for incumbent closer J. J. Putz. Reitmsa's 2007 season was marred by injuries, making his last appearance on July 29. He was placed on the 15-day disabled list on July 30 and was transferred to the 60-day disabled list on September 4, ending his season. After the season, his club option was not picked up and Reitsma became a free agent. On January 10, 2008, he re-signed with the Mariners to a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training. However, he never pitched with the Mariners in 2008, and has not played professionally since.\n\nReitsma's team nickname on the Mariners was \"The Grim Reitsma\". Reitsma himself was apparently the last to know his bullpen brethren had taken to wearing T-shirts with his name on them. The relievers began wearing gray shirts with the words \"The Grim Reitsma\" on them, complete with a maple leaf logo — Reitsma is Canadian — and the picture of a Grim Reaper.\n\nSeattle reliever George Sherrill and strength coach Allen Wirtala had the shirts made up shortly after a game at Yankee Stadium. Reitsma had gotten up in the bullpen when a fan stood up in the stands and shouted, \"Grim Reitsma!\" Reitsma went on the disabled list shortly after. \"I didn't even know about the shirts until I got back\", he said. \"I saw everybody wearing them.\"\n\nReitsma was a member of Canada's Olympic baseball team competing in the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.\n\nReitsma featured three pitches, a sinking fastball which sometimes would induce groundballs, as well a changeup. He also possessed a big, looping curveball which he did not throw as much as his fastball and changeup. Atlanta Braves coaches attempted to have Reitsma focus on only two pitches in an attempt to simplify his delivery.\n\nHe is married to Janelle and has three daughters, Kylie, Emily and Allyson. He graduated from Calgary Christian High School in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, with three varsity letters in basketball. He is also a dual citizen of both Canada and the United States. He is a born-again Christian.\n\nReitsma also performs generous charity work in the off season with the mentally and physically handicapped.\n\nOn June 20, 2008, Reitsma was named as spokesman for the Parkinson's Society of Southern Alberta's SuperWalk fundraiser. Reitsma's father Mike, former senior pastor of River Park Church in Calgary, was diagnosed with Parkinson's in 1985.\n\nChris is the founder of Reitsma's Relievers, whose mission is to benefit at-risk children, youth and their families by providing assistance, programs and events designed to build self-esteem, provide unique life changing opportunities and help them to set and achieve their life goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898693", "title": "Alex Golden Oblad", "text": "Alex Golden Oblad\n\nAlex Golden Oblad (November 26, 1909 – September 19, 2000) was a prominent chemist and chemical engineer principally recognized for his pioneering work in catalysis and catalytic chemistry.\n\nOblad was born in Salt Lake City, Utah and raised in Sugar House. Educated first at the University of Utah and subsequently receiving a Ph.D. from Purdue University, he spent the bulk of his career working for energy and engineering companies developing innovative chemical processes. His career began at Standard Oil of Indiana in the 1930s and included increasingly important research and management positions at Mobil Oil, Houdri Process Company, Air Products and Chemicals, and the M.W. Kellogg Company, of which Dr. Oblad became Vice President of Research.\n\nAmong his most recognized achievements was development of catalytic cracking (a process he worked on with Eugene Houdry and others) that made economically feasible the low-cost, mass production of high-octane gasoline. After a distinguished career in industry, Oblad accepted a teaching and research position at the University of Utah as Distinguished Professor of Fuels Engineering, where he also served for several years as acting college dean. Dr. Oblad received honorary doctorate degrees from both the University of Utah and Purdue University in recognition of his contributions to each institution.\n\nA lifelong member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and dedicated husband and father of six, Oblad died in 2000 of causes incident to age. Oblad also wrote an article on the work of Eugene Jules Houdry and was a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898697", "title": "Keish", "text": "Keish\n\nKeish (1859 or 1860 – July 11, 1916), legally James Mason, best known by his nickname Skookum Jim Mason, was a member of the Tagish First Nation in what became the Yukon Territory of Canada. He was born near Bennett Lake on what is now the British Columbia and Yukon border, to a Tahltan woman (which under the conventions of a matrilineal society made him Tahltan). He lived in Caribou Crossing, now Carcross, Yukon, Canada.\n\nIn the mid-1880s, he worked as a packer over the Chilkoot Pass carrying supplies for miners, where he earned his \"Skookum\" nickname because of his extraordinary strength. Skookum means \"strong\", \"big\" and \"reliable\" in the Chinook Jargon and regional English as used in the Pacific Northwest.\n\nHe assisted William Ogilvie in his explorations of the upper Yukon River. He also showed members of the expedition the way over the White Pass. Keish is today co-credited with making the gold discovery at Discovery Claim that led to the Klondike Gold Rush, although it was originally attributed solely to George Carmack, his brother-in-law. It is also possible that the discovery was made by Keish's sister Shaaw Tláa (Kate Carmack).\n\nCarmack described Skookum Jim as:\n\nHe died in Whitehorse, Yukon in 1916, survived by a daughter, Daisy Mason, sister, Kate Carmack, and cousin, Tagish John.\n\nA fictionalized version of Skookum Jim appears in the TG4 series \"An Klondike\", portrayed by Julian Black Antelope, where he is depicted as a Hän and is killed by the fictional character Pat Galvin in 1898.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898698", "title": "Operation Ichi-Go", "text": "Operation Ichi-Go\n\nOperation Ichi-Go (一号作戦 \"Ichi-gō Sakusen\", lit. \"Operation Number One\") was a campaign of a series of major battles between the Imperial Japanese Army forces and the National Revolutionary Army of the Republic of China, fought from April to December 1944. It consisted of three separate battles in the Chinese provinces of Henan, Hunan and Guangxi.\n\nThese battles were the Japanese Operation Kogo or Battle of Central Henan, Operation Togo 1 or the Battle of Changheng, and Operation Togo 2 and Togo 3, or the Battle of Guilin-Liuzhou, respectively. The two primary goals of Ichi-go were to open a land route to French Indochina, and capture air bases in southeast China from which American bombers were attacking the Japanese homeland and shipping.\n\nIn Japanese the operation was also called Tairiku Datsū Sakusen (), or \"Continent Cross-Through Operation\", while the Chinese refer to it as the Battle of Henan-Hunan-Guangxi ().\n\nIn 1944, China came off of several victories against Japan in Burma leading to overconfidence. Nationalist China also diverted soldiers to Xinjiang since 1942 to retake the province from the Soviet client Sheng Shicai whose puppet army was backed by the Soviet Red Army 8th Regiment in Hami, Xinjiang since the Soviet invasion of Xinjiang in 1934 when the Soviets occupied northern Xinjiang and Islamic rebellion in Xinjiang in 1937 when the Soviets occupied southern Xinjiang as well placing all of Xinjiang under Sheng Shicai and Soviet Communist control. The fighting then escalated in early 1944 with the Ili Rebellion with Soviet backed Uyghur Communist rebels, causing China to fight enemies on two fronts with 120,000 Chinese soldiers fighting against the Ili rebellion. The aim of the Japanese Operation Ichigo was to destroy American airfields in southern China that threatened the Japanese home islands with bombing and to link railways in Beijing, Hankou and Canton cities from northern China in Beijing to southern China's coast on Canton. Japan was alarmed by American air raids against Japanese forces in Taiwan's Hsinchu airfield by American bombers based in southern China, correctly deducing that southern China could become the base of a major American bombing campaign against the Japanese home islands so Japan resolved to destroy and capture all airbases where American bombers operated from in Operation Ichigo. Chiang Kai-shek and the Republic of China authorities deliberately ignored and dismissed a tip passed on to the Chinese government in Chongqing by the French military that the French picked up in colonial French Indochina on the impending Japanese offensive to link the three cities. The Chinese military believed it to be a fake tip planted by Japan to mislead them since only 30,000 Japanese soldiers started the first manoeuvre of Operation Ichigo in northern China crossing the Yellow river so the Chinese assumed it would be a local operation in northern China only. Another major factor was that the battlefront between China and Japan was static and stabilized since 1940 and continued for four years that way until Operation Ichigo in 1944 so Chiang assumed that Japan would continue the same posture and remain behind the lines in pre-1940 occupied territories of North China only bolstering the puppet Chinese government of Wang Jingwei and exploiting resources there. The Japanese had indeed acted this way for most of the 1940s from 1940-1944, with the Japanese only making a few failed weak attempts to capture China's provisional capital in Chongqing on the Yangtze river which they quickly abandoned and gave up on before 1944. Japan also exhibited no intention before of linking the transcontinental Beijing Hankow Canton railways. China also was confident by it's three victories in a row defending Changsha against Japan, Battle of Changsha (1939), Battle of Changsha (1941), and Battle of Changsha (1942). China had also defeated Japan in the India-Burma theater in Southeast Asia with X Force and Y Force and the Chinese could not believe Japan had carelessly let information slip into French hands, believing Japan deliberately fed misinformation to the French to divert Chinese troops from India and Burma towards China. China believed the Burma theater to be far more important for Japan than southern China and that Japanese forces in southern China would continue to assume a defensive posture only. China believed the initial Japanese attack in Ichigo to be a localized feint and distraction in northern China so Chinese troops numbering 400,000 in North China deliberately withdrew without a fight when Japan attacked, assumimg it was just another localized Japamese operation where the Japanese would withdraw after attacking. This mistake led to the collapse of Chinese defensive lines as the Japanese soldiers which eventually numbered in the hundreds of thousands far more than the original 30,000 Japanese kept pressing the attack from northern China to central China to southern China's provinces as Chinese soldiers deliberately withdrew leading to confusion and collapse, except at the Defense of Hengyang where 17,000 outnumbered Chinese soldiers held out against over 110,000 Japanese soldiers for months in the longest siege of the war inflicting 19,000-60,000 deaths on the Japanese. At Tushan im Guizhou province, the Nationalist government of China was forced to deploy 5 armies of the 8th war zone that they were using in the enture war up to Ichigo to contain the Communist Chinese to instead fight Japan. But at that point, dietary deficiencies of Japanese soldiers and increasing casualties suffered by Japan forced Japan to end Operation Ichigo in Guizhou causing the operation to cease. After Operation Ichigo, Chiang Kai-shek started a plan to withdrew Chinese troops from the Burma theatre against Japan in Southeast Asia for a counter offensive called \"White Tower\" and \"Iceman\" against Japanese soldiers in China in 1945.\n\nThere were two phases to the operation. In the first phase, the Japanese secured the Pinghan Railway between Beijing and Wuhan; in the second, they displaced the US air forces stationed in Hunan province and reached the city of Liuzhou, near the border with Japanese-held Indochina. 17 divisions, including 500,000 men, 15,000 vehicles, 6,000 artillery pieces, 800 tanks and 100,000 horses participated in this operation.\n\nThe Japanese included Kwantung Army units and equipment from Manchukuo, mechanized units, units from the North China theater and units from mainland Japan to participate in this campaign. It was the largest land campaign organized by the Japanese during the entire Second Sino-Japanese War. Many of the newest American-trained Chinese units and supplies were forcibly locked in the Burmese theater under Joseph Stilwell set by terms of the Lend-Lease Agreement.\n\nIn Operation Kogo, 390,000 Chinese soldiers, led by General Tang Enbo (), were deployed to defend the strategic position of Luoyang. The 3rd Tank Division of the IJA crossed the Yellow River around Zhengzhou in late April and defeated Chinese forces near Xuchang, then swung around clockwise and besieged Luoyang. Luoyang was defended by three Chinese divisions. The 3rd Tank Division began to attack Luoyang on May 13 and took it on May 25.\n\nThe second phase of Ichigo began in May, following the success of the first phase. Japanese forces advanced southward and occupied Changsha, Hengyang, Guilin and Liuzhou. At the Defense of Hengyang, the Japanese only won a Pyrrhic victory since 17,000 Chinese soldiers held out against over 110,000 Japanese soldiers from June 22–August 8, 1944,inflicting 19,000-60,000 dead on the Japanese. In December 1944, Japanese forces reached French Indochina and achieved the purpose of the operation. Nevertheless, there were few practical gains from this offensive. US air forces moved inland from the threatened bases near the coast. The operation also forced British Commandos working with the Chinese as part of Mission 204 to leave China and return to Burma. The U.S. Fourteenth Air Force often disrupted the Hunan–Guangxi Railway between Hengyang and Liuzhou that had been established in Operation Ichigo. Japan continued to attack airfields where US air forces were stationed up to the spring of 1945.\n\nThe XX Bomber Command operating Strategic B-29 bombers of the Twentieth Air Force, which were attacking Japan in Operation Matterhorn, were forced to move as well, but although this affected their efficiency for a short time, in early 1945 the Twentieth Air Force moved to newly established bases in the Marianas under the command of the newly established XXI Bomber Command. This nullified the limited protection that the Japanese home islands had received from Operation Ichigo.\n\nGeneral Jiang Dingwen of the First War Zone gave his account of the behavior of Henan civilians: \"During the campaign, the unexpected phenomenon was that the people of the mountains in western Henan attacked our troops, taking guns, bullets, and explosives, and even high-powered mortars and radio equipment... They surrounded our troops and killed our officers. We heard this pretty often. The heads of the villages and baojia (village mutual-responsibility groups) just ran away. At the same time, they took away our stored grain, leaving their houses and fields empty, which meant that our officers and soldiers had no food for many days.\" This was revenge for the 1938 Yellow River flood and the Chinese famine of 1942–43. General Jiang's account also said: \"Actually this is truly painful for me to say: in the end the damages we suffered from the attacks by the people were more serious than the losses from battles with the enemy.\" The Henan peasants picked up the weapons Kuomintang troops had abandoned to defend themselves against the Japanese. When the Kuomintang army ordered the Henan locals to destroy the local highways to prevent the Japanese advance, they refused. In fact they sometimes even went back at night and mended roads which the army had torn up by day.\n\nWith the rapid deterioration of the Chinese front after Japanese launched Operation Ichi-Go in 1944, General Joseph Stilwell saw this as an opportunity to win his political struggle against Chiang Kai-shek, China's leader, and gain full command of all Chinese armed forces. He was able to convince General George Marshall to have President Franklin D. Roosevelt send an ultimatum to Chiang threatening to end all American aid unless Chiang \"at once\" placed Stilwell \"in unrestricted command of all your forces.\"\n\nAn exultant Stilwell immediately delivered this letter to Chiang despite pleas from Patrick Hurley, Roosevelt's special envoy in China, to delay delivering the message and work on a deal that would achieve Stilwell's aim in a manner more acceptable to Chiang. Seeing this act as a move toward the complete subjugation of China, a defiant Chiang gave a formal reply in which he said that Stilwell must be replaced immediately and he would welcome any other qualified U.S. general to fill Stilwell's position.\nAs a result, Stilwell was replaced as Chief of Staff to Chiang Kai-shek and commander of the U.S. Forces, China Theater (USFCT) by Major General Albert Wedemeyer. Stilwell's other command responsibilities in the China Burma India Theater were divided up and allocated to other officers.\n\nAlthough Chiang was successful in removing Stilwell, the public relations damage suffered by his Chinese Nationalist Party (Kuomintang) regime was irreparable. Right before Stilwell's departure, \"New York Times\" drama critic-turned-war correspondent Brooks Atkinson interviewed him in Chungking and wrote:The decision to relieve General Stilwell represents the political triumph of a moribund, anti-democratic regime that is more concerned with maintaining its political supremacy than in driving the Japanese out of China. The Chinese Communists... have good armies that they are claiming to be fighting guerrilla warfare against the Japanese in North China—actually they are covertly or even overtly building themselves up to fight Generalissimo's government forces... The Generalissimo [Chiang Kai-shek] naturally regards these armies as the chief threat to the country and his supremacy... has seen no need to make sincere attempt to arrange at least a truce with them for the duration of the war... No diplomatic genius could have overcome the Generalissimo's basic unwillingness to risk his armies in battle with the Japanese.\n\nAtkinson, who had visited Mao Zedong in the communist capital of Yenan, saw his Communist Chinese forces as a democratic movement (after Atkinson visited Mao, his article on his visit was titled \"Yenan: A Chinese Wonderland City\"), and the Nationalists in turn as hopelessly reactionary and corrupt. This view was shared by many U.S. journalists in China at the time, but due to pro-Chiang Allied press censorship, it was not as well known to their readers until Stilwell's recall and the ensuing anti-Chiang coverage forced it into the open.\n\nThe Japanese successes in Operation Ichi-Go had a limited effect on the war. The U.S. could still bomb the Japanese homeland from Saipan and other Pacific bases. In the territories seized, Japanese forces controlled only the cities, not their surrounding countryside. The increased size of the occupied territory also thinned out the Japanese lines. A great majority of the Chinese forces were able to retreat out of the area, and later come back to attack Japanese positions. As a result, future Japanese attempts to fight into Sichuan, such as in the Battle of West Hunan, ended in failure. All in all, Japan was not any closer in defeating China after this operation, and the constant defeats the Japanese suffered in the Pacific meant that Japan never got the time and resources needed to achieve final victory over China. The Japanese suffered 11,742 KIAs by mid-November, and the number of soldiers that died of illness was more than twice this. The total death toll was about 100,000 by the end of 1944.\n\nOperation Ichi-go created a great sense of social confusion in the areas of China that it affected. Chinese Communist guerrillas were able to exploit this confusion to gain influence and control of greater areas of the countryside in the aftermath of Ichi-go.\n\nThe 1958 novel \"The Mountain Road\", by Theodore White, a \"Time\" magazine correspondent in China at the time of the offensive, was based on an interview with former OSS Major Frank Gleason, who led a demolition group of American soldiers during the offensive that were charged with blowing up anything left behind in the retreat that might be of use to Japan. His group ultimately destroyed over 150 bridges and 50,000 tons of munitions, helping slow the Japanese advance. In 1960, it was adapted into a film starring James Stewart and Lisa Lu, noteworthy for being one of Stewart's only war films and the only one where he plays a soldier, as he was opposed to war films due to their inaccuracy. It is generally believed he made an exception for this film because it was anti-war.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898699", "title": "Texas Star Party", "text": "Texas Star Party\n\nThe Texas Star Party (TSP) is a large annual star party in the United States.\n\nTSP was started by Deborah Byrd, members of the Austin Astronomical Society, and McDonald Observatory in August 1979. It was a weekend gathering of amateur astronomers at Davis Mountains State Park near McDonald Observatory in far west Texas. In 1982, TSP was reorganized as a week-long event and was held at the Prude Guest Ranch near Fort Davis, Texas. For one year only, in 1997, the event was held at Alto Frio Baptist Encampment, on the banks of the Frio River, 40 miles north of Uvalde, Texas. Also in 1997, \"\"Texas Star Party, Inc.\"\" was registered as a Texas Non-Profit Corporation. In 1998, TSP returned to Prude Ranch, where it continues to be held annually in late April or in May near the time of new moon. By 2007, the event attracted 580 attendees, even though the weather was very poor. Attendees mostly come from across North America, and some from far overseas.\n\nActivities include dark sky observing and imaging, an astrophotography contest, guest speakers, tours of McDonald Observatory, commercial vendors, and the opportunity to view numerous home built telescopes and gadgets. TSP is well known for its very dark skies due to its elevation in the Davis Mountains of around and it remoteness from artificial light sources. It has strongly supported efforts to reduce light pollution. Two annual awards have traditionally been presented at TSP: The Lone Star Gazer Award (for personal achievement, accomplishment, and expertise) and The Omega Centauri Award (for public awareness and/or promotion of astronomy). Complete lists of all past award winners as well as past guest speakers may be found on the TSP History page listed below. The TSP's observing fields at the Prude Ranch are the central field, the upper field, the upper-upper field, and the lower field. The TSP holds telescope programs of varying levels, binocular programs, a novice program, and an advanced observing program. The programs require the participant to observe a certain number of specified objects, and completion of a program will be awarded by a pin and in some cases another award. The binocular programs are usually a regular binocular program, an advanced binocular program, and a binocular program \"from hell\".\n\nWhile at TSP 1996, Brian A. Skiff named one of the asteroids that he had previously discovered. That asteroid, 4932 Texstapa (), was discovered on March 9, 1984 and was named for the Texas Star Party on the occasion of its 18th anniversary in May 1996.\n\nThe TSP is run by around 50-70 volunteers each year, drawn mostly from amateur astronomy clubs with support from the University of Texas’ McDonald Observatory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898702", "title": "BreadTalk", "text": "BreadTalk\n\nBreadTalk Group Limited is a Singaporean multinational food and beverage corporation headquartered in Paya Lebar, Singapore.\n\nFounded as a bakery brand in Singapore in 2000 and listed on the SGX in 2003. It has since expanded to more than 1,000 retail stores spread across 17 markets. Its brand portfolio comprises BreadTalk, Toast Box, Food Republic, Food Junction, Din Tai Fung, Bread Society, Thye Moh Chan, The Icing Room, Sō and Nayuki in Singapore. Din Tai Fung, Song Fa Bak Kut Teh, Wu Pao Chun and Nayuki are franchised brands.\n\nThe Group has a network of owned bakery outlets in Singapore, PRC, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Thailand as well as franchised bakery outlets across Asia, Europe and the Middle East. It also owns and operates the Din Tai Fung restaurants in Singapore, Thailand and the United Kingdom, as well as the Food Republic food atria in Singapore, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Malaysia. In December 2018, the Group opened its first Din Tai Fung restaurant in London.\n\nBreadTalk's milestones are:\n\n\nBreadTalk Group's Food Republic foodcourts in Singapore are situated in shopping malls such as Wisma Atria, Vivocity and Suntec City. Overseas, there are food courts in Hong Kong (also in Silvercord of Canton Road, Tsim Sha Tsui), the People's Republic of China, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand.\n\nBreadTalk Group acquired Food Junction in 2019.\n\nBreadTalk Group operates the Toast Box concept, which is a kampong kopitiam-style coffee houses serving mainly coffee and kaya toast among other more modern snacks. These Toast Box outlets are typically attached to the main BreadTalk outlet or in a Food Republic food court. There have been stand-alone stores in recent years. In 2016, '1933 by Toast Box' was also set up in Capitol Piazza.\n\nBreadTalk Group is the franchisee of Taiwanese Xiao Long Bao restaurant, Din Tai Fung. It opened its first restaurant in the upscale Paragon shopping mall and has opened other outlets in the island, including one in Bishan and another in the basement annex of Raffles City. Din Tai Fung has 8 branches in Thailand. It was announced that BreadTalk Group has also been awarded the franchise to operate Din Tai Fung in the United Kingdom. This was the result of successful partnerships and the positive reputation that BreadTalk Group has had in managing the franchise in Singapore and Thailand.\n\nThe Icing Room is the first-ever \"Design-It-Yourself\" cakes and pastry shop. \n\nThis 70-year old Teochew bakery was acquired in 2013. \n\nBreadTalk Group opens the first Wu Pao Chun store in South East Asia in May 2019.\n\nBread Society embraces traditional artisanal baking techniques using highly nutritious ingredients.\n\nBreadTalk Group continued to partner with the Sanpou Group to expand its variety of ramen shops in Singapore. Since 2014, Sanpoutei, which specialises in Niigata-style shoyu ramen has been operating in Holland Village. Another outlet in Shaw Centre was subsequently added, in line with the successful product reception in Singapore.\n\nSō Ramen is a ramen restaurant. It also offers Koshihikari rice grown from Niigata.\n\nOn 25 March 2015, BreadTalk pulled buns commemorating Mr Lee Kuan Yew off shelves after receiving flak from the public. Although the proceeds from sale of the buns were meant for charitable purposes, poor communication of intentions led to the misunderstanding. BreadTalk apologised publicly on its Facebook page.\n\nOn 4 August 2015, BreadTalk stopped selling soya milk previously labelled \"freshly prepared\" as they confirmed (after being confronted with photographic evidence) that the product was repackaged Yeo's soya milk packet drink. Prior to investigations, the company had initially denied that they were misleading customers. After the details had gone viral online, Breadtalk eventually apologised for its actions. On 7 August 2015, the Consumer Association of Singapore warned Breadtalk they would pursue action if the practice continued.\n\nBreadTalk's China franchise was also accused of selling food with expired ingredients, although such a claim has yet to be proven. \nSeemingly contaminated wheatmeal and butter two years past its expiry date were among discoveries claimed by an undercover reporter at Hangzhou Guangqi Trade Co, in the eastern city of Hangzhou.\n\nOn 10 June 2019, the Public Utilities Board (PUB) disclosed that BreadTalk was fined S$16,300 for repeated offences of illegal waste discharge into sewers, making it among 38 companies fined for similar offences. Prior to this, BreadTalk was slapped a fine of S$19,000 for six other incidents of illegal waste discharge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898711", "title": "Movement for Justice in Africa", "text": "Movement for Justice in Africa\n\nMovement for Justice in Africa (MOJA) is a leftist pan-African political organization that is mostly active in Liberia, with chapters in Ghana and The Gambia. It was founded in 1973 by Togba Nah Tipoteh, who is to this day its president. Early members included Henry Boimah Fahnbulleh, Dew Tuan-Wreh Mason, Amb. Conmany B. Wesseh Sr currently a senator representing River Gee County. Amos Sawyer, who served as President of the Interim Government of National Unity (IGNU) in 1990-94, and Kukoi Samba Sanyang, a Gambian revolutionary who had been one of the leaders of a coup attempt in Banjul in 1981.\n\nMOJA played a pivotal role in the struggle for social justice and democracy in Liberia. Through its sensitization work in the 1970s, it raised national political consciousness to an unprecedentedly high level, radicalizing the mass of urban and rural poor and sections of the military. The heightened political consciousness and the agitation it precipitated led to the collapse of the settler oligarchy which had ruled Liberia in a manner not unlike colonialism for over a century.\n\nMOJA has waned in significance in recent years. But in early 2007, efforts aimed at reviving the movement were initiated.\n\nMOJA participates in elections under the name Liberian People's Party.\n"}
{"id": "1898713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898713", "title": "Murayama Statement", "text": "Murayama Statement\n\nThe Murayama Statement (村山談話, \"Murayama Danwa\") is a political statement released by former Prime Minister of Japan Tomiichi Murayama on August 15, 1995, officially titled \"On the Occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the War's End\" (戦後50周年の終戦記念日にあたっての村山内閣総理大臣談話, \"Sengo 50 Shūnen no Shūsen Kinenbi Niatatte no Murayama Naikaku-sōri-daijin Danwa\"). It synthesized the position of the Japanese government on historical recognition and reconciliation with Asia and other nations subjected to Japanese colonialism, primarily involving China and the Republic of Korea. It recognizes the judgements of war tribunals prescribed in Article 11 of the San Francisco Peace Treaty. In this way, the Murayama Statement played a significant role in both the reconciliation of war issues as well as the shift in both domestic and international perception of Japan.\n\nThe Murayama statement apologizes for Japanese war crimes and atrocities committed during the period of Japanese imperialism, especially during the Second Sino-Japanese War, World War II, and the annexation of South Korea. The war crimes mainly involved the Imperial Japanese Army and the Imperial Japanese Navy, responsible for the deaths of millions. Actions include a wide range including torture of prisoners of war, forced labor, biological warfare, looting, rape, and the use of comfort women. In addition to, Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs states the country acknowledges its role in the damage caused by Japan during World War II. \n\nJapanese governments have issued several official apologies for their war crimes and other actions during the Imperial era. The apology that most immediately preceded the Murayama Statement was the Kono Statement announced by LDP Chief Cabinet Secretary Yōhei Kōno on August 4, 1993. With this statement, Japan acknowledged for the first time that their military was directly or indirectly involved in the military-run brothels and used coercion to make the comfort women provide sex to the Japanese soldiers.\nThe idea of developing a formal, comprehensive apology was raised in January 1995, when the long-dominant Liberal Democratic Party of Japan (LDP) was forced to share power with the Japan Socialist Party (JSP). JSP President Murayama was given the prime ministership in the power-sharing agreement. The Lower House Speaker Takako Doi of JSP emphasized the necessity of trying to resolve Asian distrust in Japan. However, this was first met by strong opposition within the government, with many believing that Japan had already apologized sufficiently for the war, or that the renouncement of war could suggest Japan was abrogating its right to self defense. \n\nTo overcome opposition to an apology and reach a resolution, Murayama met with the secretary general of each of the three governing parties on May 25 and asked for negotiations to reach an agreement. He targeted his campaign at the younger leaders of the LDP, including Junichiro Koizumi, former minister of posts and telecommunications and a future prime minister. The leaders reportedly promised Murayama a resolution containing clear expressions of regret. The drafting of the document was a process involving much conflict over wording and expressions, for example with the LDP's rejection of unilateral incrimination of Japan against the Socialists feeling that ambiguity in the statement would greatly detract from its significance. Sakutaro Tanino, a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was among those who contributed to the drafting process of the Statement. Tanino was responsible for changing the ambiguous wordings through the implementation of the word \"aggression\" in the statement. \n\nWhen formulating the statement, Murayama chose the route of \"cabinet decision\", a comparatively more politically binding procedure than \"cabinet understanding\". Murayama expressed his wish for his statement to be interpreted as the will of the cabinet, in order to bind future cabinets. Although his statement was criticized on August 22 by the new LDP Secretary General Hiroshi Mitsuzuka as exceeding the content of the Diet solution, the incoming LDP President (and soon to be prime minister) Ryutaro Hashimoto stated his own interpretation of the war was in accordance with Murayama's statement. \nThe English translation of the Statement is as follows: \"The world has seen fifty years elapse since the war came to an end. Now, when I remember the many people both at home and abroad who fell victim to war, my heart is overwhelmed by a flood of emotions.\n\nThe peace and prosperity of today were built as Japan overcame great difficulty to arise from a devastated land after defeat in the war. That achievement is something of which we are proud, and let me herein express my heartfelt admiration for the wisdom and untiring effort of each and every one of our citizens. Let me also express once again my profound gratitude for the indispensable support and assistance extended to Japan by the countries of the world, beginning with the United States of America. I am also delighted that we have been able to build the friendly relations which we enjoy today with the neighboring countries of the Asia-Pacific region, the United States and the countries of Europe.\n\nNow that Japan has come to enjoy peace and abundance, we tend to overlook the pricelessness and blessings of peace. Our task is to convey to younger generations the horrors of war, so that we never repeat the errors in our history. I believe that, as we join hands, especially with the peoples of neighboring countries, to ensure true peace in the Asia-Pacific region -indeed, in the entire world- it is necessary, more than anything else, that we foster relations with all countries based on deep understanding and trust. Guided by this conviction, the Government has launched the Peace, Friendship and Exchange Initiative, which consists of two parts promoting: support for historical research into relations in the modern era between Japan and the neighboring countries of Asia and elsewhere; and rapid expansion of exchanges with those countries. Furthermore, I will continue in all sincerity to do my utmost in efforts being made on the issues arisen from the war, in order to further strengthen the relations of trust between Japan and those countries.\n\nNow, upon this historic occasion of the 50th anniversary of the war's end, we should bear in mind that we must look into the past to learn from the lessons of history, and ensure that we do not stray from the path to the peace and prosperity of human society in the future.\n\nDuring a certain period in the not too distant past, Japan, following a mistaken national policy, advanced along the road to war, only to ensnare the Japanese people in a fateful crisis, and, through its colonial rule and aggression, caused tremendous damage and suffering to the people of many countries, particularly to those of Asian nations. In the hope that no such mistake be made in the future, I regard, in a spirit of humility, these irrefutable facts of history, and express here once again my feelings of deep remorse and state my heartfelt apology. Allow me also to express my feelings of profound mourning for all victims, both at home and abroad, of that history.\n\nBuilding from our deep remorse on this occasion of the 50th anniversary of the end of the war, Japan must eliminate self-righteous nationalism, promote international coordination as a responsible member of the international community and, thereby, advance the principles of peace and democracy. At the same time, as the only country to have experienced the devastation of atomic bombing, Japan, with a view to the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons, must actively strive to further global disarmament in areas such as the strengthening of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. It is my conviction that in this way alone can Japan atone for its past and lay to rest the spirits of those who perished.\n\nIt is said that one can rely on good faith. And so, at this time of remembrance, I declare to the people of Japan and abroad my intention to make good faith the foundation of our Government policy, and this is my vow.\"\n\nThe majority of the Japanese population was greatly supportive of Murayama's statement. Although some were concerned over indiscretions such as by Yoshinobu Shimamura, and feared that Murayama's apology may not necessarily hold if more conservative prime ministers followed to lead Japan. However, many were encouraged when Emperor Akihito spoke in a ritual said that marked the anniversary to reinforce Murayama's apology and expressed deep remorse for Japan's actions as well as mourning for those who suffered in the battlefield.\n\nAlthough the statement was met with general approval from the Japanese public who said they believed expressions of remorse were long overdue, some were cautious of Murayama's words. Some believed that there was no need for an apology, due to what they perceived as insufficient evidence for Japan's actions during World War II. There were occasional beliefs that politicians were apologizing purely for the sake of maintaining and improving diplomatic relations without making investigations. The Education Minister at the time, Yoshinobu Shimamura, told reporters he was unsure whether repeated apologies were useful and that Japan had not necessarily been the aggressor in the war. However, he quickly apologized and retracted his comments after meeting protests from the public population and other Asian countries.\n\nThe perceptions of the South Koreans grew suspicious about the credibility of the statement as the means of reconciliation were not ensured in concrete measures, neither did they feel that it was met. The Asian Women’s Fund, which was created in spirit of the statement, was later rejected by South Korean comfort women and the South Korean government. They argued for direct compensation from the Japanese government. The Korean elites, additionally, required the Japanese government to declare, hence, acknowledging that there was a forced annexation in 1910. The Japanese did not comply to this demand. Therefore, South Koreans perceive inconsistency with the Japanese government. After normalizing diplomatic relations between Japan and South Korea in 1965, Korean victims could legally not make individual claims against the Japanese government nor the Japanese companies. It strengthens the idea of Japan not being committed to making a genuine reconciliation. Visits at the Yasukuni Shrine by Junichiro Koizumi during his time in office (April 26, 2001 - September 26, 2006) and retracting statements by PM Shinzo Abe have continued the negative sentiments among the South Korean public. \n\nA survey conducted by the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in 2012 shows that the South Korean public are unaware of the Murayama Statement and misunderstood it to be related to the Dokdo-Takeshima Island dispute. The study concluded that the island dispute is considered as “the biggest obstacle in mending South Korean-Japan relations”. Since the Japanese government has made several statements about the dispute instead of concessions in the negotiations over the territory, there is continued suspicion about Japan’s actions.\n\nMurayama was known as the first Japanese prime minister to apologize to China, and also the first to formally address Japan's actions during its colonial rule. According to Chinese media, As the \"good friend (好朋友, \"hao peng you\")\" of Chinese people, Murayama's actions were praised by Asian countries, including China. Murayama's visits to China following the issue of this statement was often met with Chinese leaders mentioning the statement and praise Murayama for acting to improve Japanese-Chinese relations. Even after his resignation, Murayama has been invited to ceremonies in China to mark the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II. In a statement released by People's Daily, Murayama emphasized the two nations' linguistic and cultural similarities, insisting that China and Japan develop a strong bond.\nAlthough some Western nations such as Australia showed warmth and welcome towards the first explicit apology for Japan's imperialist and war time actions, other Asian countries such as Singapore and Malaysia expressed similar reactions to China and South Korea. Reactions were generally subdued compared to Western states, and not all Asian states issued official responses to the Murayama statement. However, in contrast to China and South Korea, Japan seems to have achieved a fair level of reconciliation with Taiwan and other Southeast Asian nations through the statement, that seem to have developed a \"Forgive, but never forget\" attitude. \n\nFormer PM Junichiro Koizumi issued an additional statement on August 5th 2005 regarding Japan's 20th century militarism during his time in office from 2001 to 2006. Nations such as China and South Korea repeatedly warned that attempts to avoid explicit apologies that would jeopardize diplomatic ties. \n\nIn the statement he says: “[I]n the past, Japan, through its colonial rule and aggression, caused tremendous damage and suffering to the people of many countries, particularly to those of Asian nations. Sincerely facing these facts of history, I once again express my feelings of deep remorse and heartfelt apology, and also express the feelings of mourning for all victims, both at home and abroad, in the war. I am determined not to allow the lessons of that horrible war to erode, and to contribute to the peace and prosperity of the world without ever again waging a war...” \nThe Koizumi statement also mentions words such as \"colonial rule\", \"aggression\" and \"deep remorse\" but Koizumi's visits to Yasukuni Shrine, which honors 2.5 million Japanese war dead, including 14 Class A war criminals, worsening ties with Beijing and Seoul.\n\nIn the summer of 2015, PM Shinzo Abe signaled his government’s position that the wording of the Murayama Statement could be altered. Doing so would require a Cabinet decision. Abe said that he planned to uphold the general content of statements made by previous Japanese cabinets. He said the upcoming statement will include three main points: an expression of remorse for Japan’s wartime aggression, comments on the democratic path taken by the country over the last 70 years, and the government’s plans for the future, including measures to improve regional and global prosperity.\n\nThe Murayama Statement said the country had caused “tremendous damage and suffering” to the people of Asia and other countries through its colonial rule and aggression. Abe seemed reluctant about using the same wording that appeared in the Murayama statement, saying he wanted to avoid “bits and pieces of argument over whether the previous wording was used or new wording was added”. His comments on the issue drew criticism from many opposition leaders. Katsuya Okada, leader of the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, severely criticized Abe’s approach, saying that the prime minister’s remarks calling colonial rule and aggression ‘bits and pieces’ could not be tolerated, and that the original statement had already received strong international recognition.\n\nKenji Eda, leader of Ishin no To (Japanese Innovation Party), warned Abe against altering the wording of the Murayama statement, saying doing so would “send a different message to neighboring countries”. Japanese Communist Party chairman Kazuo Shii also urged Abe to retain key aspects of the Murayama Statement and take appropriate action. In addition to this, Natsuo Yamaguchi, the leader of the junior Komeito party in Abe’s LDP-led coalition, said that the form of expression used in the Murayama Statement had significant meaning, thus any new statement must be capable of sending a similar message.\n\nAbe delivered his statement on August 14, 2015 on the 70th anniversary of Japan's defeat in World War II, causing much controversy especially in China and South Korea. The Abe Statement is based on previous statements such as the Murayama Statement. However, it also consulted the report of a panel commission created to reconsider “the history of the 20th century and Japan’s role and the world order in the 21st century.” The fundamental purposes of the panel and Abe statement were to design the view of 21st century, in the context of Japan’s aim of reconciliation and international contributions in the 70 years since World War II.\n\nChina's state media criticized Abe's remarks as refraining from offering his own apology, this being agreed on by both the official broadcaster CCTV and Xinhua News Agency. South Korea criticized it as \"disappointing\", followed by comments from other Asian states as well, for example Taiwan calling on the Japanese government to examine its wartime aggression and learn the lessons of history. Abe’s words about the end of Japan’s “apology” and that Abe's generation must not let the next generations “be predestined to apologize\", was regarded unsatisfactory by those believing the Japanese should apologize for generations for the “sin of Japanese ethnicity.” \n\nFormer PM Tomiichi Murayama had responded to Abe's statement, two hours after it had been announced. He had accused Abe of using words from the Murayama statement and rewording it to create a more abstract version of the statement. While Abe used words such as \"aggression\" in his statement, he did not mention about the specific behaviors of Japan during the war, nor did he address whom his statement was for. He stood by the statement and urged Abe Shinzo to do the same.\n\nThe concern over the statement's wording was combined with the Japanese Foreign Ministry deleting a \"History Issues Q&A\" section on its website. The section was based on statements by Tomiichi Murayama and Junichiro Koizumi, but the section had been slightly altered when it was reinstated on the website on September 18th. The new version of the Q&A is also criticized for playing down Abe's revisionist position on war related issues in order to facilitate the passage of the upcoming changes in the controversial security legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898719", "title": "Bein' Green", "text": "Bein' Green\n\n\"Bein' Green\" (also known as \"It's Not Easy Bein' Green\") is a popular song written by Joe Raposo, originally performed by Jim Henson as Kermit the Frog on both \"Sesame Street\" and \"The Muppet Show\". It later was covered by Frank Sinatra and other performers.\n\nIn the Muppets version, Kermit begins by lamenting his green coloration, expressing that green \"blends in with so many ordinary things\" and wishing to be some other color. But by the end of the song, Kermit recalls positive associations with the color green, and concludes by accepting and embracing his greenness.\n\n\nThe song was sung by Big Bird (Caroll Spinney) at the two memorial services for Jim Henson in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898722", "title": "Lettering", "text": "Lettering\n\nLettering is an umbrella term that covers the art of drawing letters, instead of simply writing them. Lettering is considered an art form, where each letter in a phrase or quote acts as an illustration. Each letter is created with attention to detail and has a unique role within a composition. Lettering is created as an image, with letters that are meant to be used in a unique configuration. Lettering words do not usually translate into alphabets that can later be used in font since they are created with a specific word in mind. \n\nLettering includes that used for purposes of blueprints and comic books, as well as decorative lettering such as sign painting and custom graphics. For instance; on posters, for a letterhead or business wordmark, lettering in stone, lettering for advertisements, tire lettering, fileteado, graffiti, or on chalkboards.\n\nLettering may be drawn, applied using stencils, or using a digital medium with a stylus, or a vector program. Lettering that was not created using digital tools is commonly referred to as hand-lettering.\n\nIn the past, almost all decorative lettering other than that on paper was created as custom or hand-painted lettering. The use of fonts in place of lettering has increased due to new printing methods, phototypesetting, and digital typesetting, which allow fonts to be printed at any desired size.\n\nMore recently, there has been an influx of aspiring artists attempting hand-lettering with brush pens and digital mediums.\n\nSome popular styles are sans serif, serif, cursive/script, vintage, gothic/blackletter calligraphy, graffiti, and creative lettering.\n\nSeveral hand-lettering communities have formed, aggregating on sites such as Reddit.\n\nSome creators sell their lettering projects, and others create Instagram accounts dedicated to the sharing of their lettering. \n\nLettering can be confused with similar terms, such as calligraphy or typography. Several pages have taken to distinguish the three in comprehensive guides.\n\nCalligraphy is known as a more rigid process, that requires learning the shapes of letters and combining thick downstrokes with thin upstrokes. This style of writing is generally created with dip pens and inks. Some calligraphers and hand-letterers say that calligraphy created with brush pens becomes lettering or faux-calligraphy , but others believe that the approach used to create the letters is more important than the tools used to do so. \n\nTypography is referred to as the use of type in a repeating system, where each instance of the same letter looks the same.\nPart of the reason why these misconceptions are common is that some font shops categorize their fonts as \"hand-lettered\", \"illustrated\" or \"calligraphy\". Said fonts can begin with a hand-lettered alphabet that is then digitized and turned into a repeatable system. This identifies them as typography, instead of lettering.\n\nHand Lettering for Beginners defines the three terms as follows: Lettering is the art of drawing letters, calligraphy is the art of writing letters, and typography is the art of using letters.\nMany textbooks on lettering or books of example alphabets were published in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.\nJoseph Alessio wrote an in-depth article about the difference between type and lettering.\n"}
{"id": "1898727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898727", "title": "Philip Augustus Marquam", "text": "Philip Augustus Marquam\n\nPhilip A. Marquam (February 28, 1823 – May 8, 1912) was a lawyer, judge, legislator, and real estate developer in the U.S. state of Oregon.\n\nPhilip Marquam was born in Baltimore, Maryland, on February 28, 1823, to Philip Winchester Marquam and Charlotte Mercer Poole. The family later moved to Indiana. There Philip attended law school in Bloomington, Indiana. He went to California as a \"49er\" during the gold rush of 1849, and was elected judge in Yolo County.\n\nIn August 1851, Marquam moved to Portland, Oregon, then a small town of under 1,000 inhabitants. For many years he was the largest landowner in Multnomah County, Oregon, counting among his holdings Portland's Fulton District and his homestead on Marquam Hill in southwest Portland. The hill was part of a donation land claim he purchased for $2,500 in 1857 from John Donner, brother of George Donner of the ill-fated Donner Party. The hill is now the site of the Oregon Health & Science University and the Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center.\n\nIn 1862, he was elected Multnomah County judge. He served eight years in the position, having been re-elected to a second four-year term in 1866.\n\nIn 1882, Marquam was elected as a Republican to the Oregon House of Representatives from Multnomah County. Marquam gained a reputation as a transportation advocate and developer. He was instrumental in the formation of the Oregon Railway and Navigation Company in 1887.\n\nHe built the Marquam Grand Opera House in Portland, later renamed the Orpheum Theater. The theater was torn down in the 1970s. It was located in the downtown Portland block bounded by Broadway, Alder, 6th and Morrison streets, which block was owned by Marquam. In the south half of the same block he built an eight-story office building, the Marquam Building, completed around 1892, next to his home, a small house at the southeast corner of the block. The office building and house were later torn down and replaced by the Northwestern National Bank Building.\n\nLess than two years after arriving in Oregon, Marquam married Emma Kern, on May 8, 1853. Eleven children were born to the couple, four sons and seven daughters. The youngest child, Thomas Alfred \"Tom\" Marquam, served as mayor of Fairbanks, Alaska from 1923 to 1925. Emma Marquam died in 1902.\n\nMarquam died at the home of one of his daughters, in southwest Portland, shortly after midnight on May 8, 1912, four days after suffering a stroke. He is buried in River View Cemetery in Portland.\n\nBearing his name is the Marquam Bridge in Portland, opened in 1966, Marquam Hill and the adjacent Marquam Gulch and Marquam Nature Park. The community of Marquam, Oregon, is named for his older brother, Alfred.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898730", "title": "Colorado War", "text": "Colorado War\n\nThe Colorado War was an Indian War fought in 1864 and 1865 between the Southern Cheyenne, Arapaho, and allied Brulé and Oglala Sioux (or Lakota) peoples versus the U.S. army, Colorado militia, and white settlers in Colorado Territory and adjacent regions. The Kiowa and the Comanche played a minor role in actions that occurred in the southern part of the Territory along the Arkansas River. The Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Sioux played the major role in actions that occurred north of the Arkansas River and along the South Platte River, the Great Platte River Road, and the eastern portion of the Overland Trail. The United States government and Colorado Territory authorities participated through the 1st Colorado Cavalry Regiment, often called the Colorado volunteers. The war was centered on the Colorado Eastern Plains, extending eastward into Kansas and Nebraska.\n\nThe war included an attack in November 1864 against the winter camp of the Southern Cheyenne Chief Black Kettle known as the Sand Creek massacre. The engagement, initially hailed as a great victory, was later publicly condemned as an act of genocidal brutality. The massacre resulted in military and congressional hearings which established the culpability of John M. Chivington, the commander of the Colorado Volunteers, and his troops.\n\nThe Indians' response to the Sand Creek Massacre was a move northward to the more isolated lands of Wyoming to join their relatives, the Northern Cheyenne, the Northern Arapaho, and the main body of the Sioux. En route they carried out extensive raids along the South Platte River and attacked U.S. military forts and forces, successfully eluding defeat and capture by the U.S. army. \n\nBy the terms of the 1851 Treaty of Fort Laramie between the United States and various tribes including the Cheyenne and Arapaho, the United States unilaterally defined and recognized Cheyenne and Arapaho territory as ranging from the North Platte River in present-day Wyoming and Nebraska southward to the Arkansas River in present day Colorado and Kansas. The treaty also acknowledged that the tribal territories defined therein were minimum territories and that it didn't preclude the existence of additional tribal territories not mentioned in the treaty. The treaty did not - as is often falsely assumed - \"allocate territory\" to various tribes but merely endeavoured to make declaratory delineations of already existing sovereign tribal lands through which the US merely secured a right of way. Initially, the land, often called \"the Great American Desert,\" was of little interest to the United States and white settlers. However, the discovery in November 1858 of gold in the Rocky Mountains in Colorado (then part of the western Kansas Territory) brought on a gold rush and a consequent flood of white emigration across Cheyenne and Arapaho lands. Colorado territorial officials pressured federal authorities to redefine and reduce the extent of Indian treaty lands.\n\nOn February 18, 1861, six chiefs of the Southern Cheyenne and four of the Arapaho signed the Treaty of Fort Wise with the United States at Bent's New Fort at Big Timbers near what is now Lamar, Colorado. They ceded more than 90 percent of the lands designated for them by the Fort Laramie Treaty. Their new, much reduced reserve was located in eastern Colorado. Some Cheyenne including the Dog Soldiers, a militaristic band of Cheyennes and Lakotas that had evolved beginning in the 1830s, disavowed the treaty and refused to abide by its constraints. They continued to live and hunt in the bison-rich lands of eastern Colorado and western Kansas, becoming increasingly belligerent over the tide of white immigration across their lands. Cheyennes opposed to the treaty said that it had been signed by a small minority of the chiefs without the consent or approval of the rest of the tribe, that the signatories had not understood what they signed, and that they had been bribed to sign by a large distribution of gifts. The whites, however, claimed the treaty was a \"solemn obligation\" and considered that those Indians who refused to abide by it were hostile and planning a war.\n\nIn March 1864, there was little indication that an Indian War in Colorado was about to begin. The U.S. army was planning to withdraw many of its units from the Great Plains to fight the Confederacy in the Civil War. On April 9, however, Colonel John Chivington, commander of the Colorado volunteers, reported that Indians had stolen 175 head of cattle from whites. The Cheyenne later stated that they found cattle wandering freely on the plains and took them to their camps. Lt. George Eayre with soldiers and a howitzer was despatched to recover the cattle. On April 12, Eayre encountered a band of Cheyenne. A fight ensued in which a soldier was killed. Eayre burned the seventy tipis of a nearby encampment and returned to Denver with 20 head of cattle. This fight took place near the headwaters of the Republican River. \n\nOn about the same date, a band of fourteen Dog Soldiers encountered a group of fifteen to twenty soldiers just north of the South Platte River. The soldiers demanded that the Dog Soldiers throw down their weapons. The soldiers suspected the Dog Soldiers had stolen four mules from a white owner. A fight ensued and two soldiers were killed and three Dog Soldiers wounded. \nThe mixed blood Cheyenne warrior, George Bent, said that the Indians were puzzled by what they regarded as unprovoked attacks by soldiers. Bent speculated that the altercations between soldiers and Indians were an effort by Colonel Chivington and the Colorado Volunteers to avoid being ordered to go to Kansas to fight the Confederates by establishing a need for them to remain in Colorado because of an Indian war.\n\nIncidents continue to happen regularly, sparked by both the Indians and U.S. soldiers and militia. In May Lt. Eayre was in the field again with 100 men and 2 howitzers. Near the Smoky Hill River in Kansas Eayre had a battle with the Dog Soldiers. He claimed the Indians started the battle; the Indians claimed the soldiers attacked them. Eayre claimed that he killed 28 Indians at a loss of four men of his own. Bent claimed that only three Indians were killed, but among the Indian dead was Lean Bear, a prominent Dog Soldier leader. Eayre finished his raid at Fort Larned, near present Larned, Kansas, where 240 of his horses and mules were stolen by the Kiowa. Arapahoes offering assistance to recover the stolen horses were fired on by soldiers and thereafter turned hostile. \n\nAlso, in May, Major Jacob Downing and a force of Colorado volunteers attacked a Cheyenne village in Cedar Canyon north of the South Platte River. The people in the village were mainly old women and children. Downing reported killing 26 Indians. One soldier was killed. On June 11, only from Denver, four Arapaho killed the four members of the Hungate family, creating fear in the city that the war was on their doorstep. On July 12, a band of Miniconjou Sioux attacked a wagon train on the Oregon Trail, killing 4 men. Soldiers pursued the raiders but were ambushed and had one man killed. On August 20, Indians killed 5 members of a family in Nebraska. A total of 51 people were reported killed by Indians along the Little Blue River in Kansas and Nebraska. The roads to Denver across the Great Plains were closed from August 15 to September 24.\n\nSoldiers from Kansas also got involved in the war. On September 25, Major General James G. Blunt with 400 soldiers and Delaware Indian scouts encountered Cheyennes on the Pawnee Fork of the Arkansas River. Blunt claimed to have killed 9 Indians at the cost of two dead soldiers.\n\nIn July 1864, Colorado governor John Evans sent a circular to the Plains Indians, inviting those who were friendly to go to a place of safety at Fort Lyon (near present Lamar, Colorado) on the eastern plains, where their people would be given provisions and protection by the United States troops. A substantial number of the Indians desired peace, while the Dog Soldiers pursued war. On August 29, 1864, the two mixed-blood Cheyennes, George Bent and Edmund Guerrier, wrote letters on behalf of \"Black Kettle and Other Chiefs\" offering to make peace and return seven white prisoners in exchange for Indian prisoners held by the whites. In response, Major Edward W. Wynkoop, the commander of Fort Lyon (near present-day Lamar, Colorado) led a force of 130 men to try to recover the prisoners. They were met by a band of 600 or more Cheyenne warriors on the Smoky Hill River. In talks with Black Kettle and others, Wynkoop invited the chiefs to visit Denver to meet with the governor, John Evans, and Colonel Chivington. The meetings at Camp Weld ended with Black Kettle and the other chiefs apparently believing that they had made peace with the whites. \n\nOn their return to Fort Lyon, Wyncoop promised the peaceful Indians protection if they established a village on Sand Creek, northeast of Fort Lyon, and within the area allocated to the Cheyenne and Arapaho by the Treaty of Fort Wise. Black Kettle and his followers moved to Sand Creek. On October 17, however, Wyncoop was relieved of his command by Chivington, apparently because of his advocacy for a peaceful settlement of the war.\n\nThe desire for peace by Black Kettle and others to the contrary, the Dog Soldiers and other hostile Indians continued to raid ranches and wagon trains and to clash with soldiers during the fall, especially in Kansas and Nebraska. Several offensives by the U.S. army were ineffective.\n\nOn November 29, 1864, 675 men mostly belonging to the Colorado Volunteers led by Colonel John M. Chivington, crossed into Cheyenne and Arapaho territory in lands allocated to the Cheyenne and Arapaho by the Treaty of Fort Wise. The soldiers sacked the village of Black Kettle, over which flew both an American flag and a white flag of truce, and killed about 150 Indians, mostly unarmed women, children, and the elderly. There were no Dog Soldiers nor other hostile Indians in the village at the time of Chivington's attack.\n\nAfter the Sand Creek massacre, according to George Bent, the Cheyenne, Northern Arapaho, and the Brulé and Oglala sub-tribes of the Lakota met about January 1, 1865 on Cherry Creek in present-day Cheyenne County, Kansas. They agreed on war with the whites and decided to attack Camp Rankin and the nearby settlement of Julesburg, Colorado. The Sioux, the first to agree to war, had the honor of leading a column of possibly 1,000 warriors and an additional 3,000 women and children. After the attack on Julesburg, the Indians planned to march northward and join their relatives in Wyoming.\n\nJulesburg consisted of a stagecoach station, stables, an express and telegraph office, a warehouse, and a large store that catered to travelers going to Denver along the South Platte. Its population was about 50 armed men. One mile west was Camp Rankin, with one company, about 60 men, of cavalry. High sod walls surrounded both settlements. On January 7, 1,000 warriors attacked Julesburg and Camp Rankin killing 14 soldiers and four armed civilians at little or no loss to themselves. The surviving soldiers and civilians took refuge inside Camp Rankin while the Indians plundered the settlement. \n\nNot all the Indians were committed to war. After the raid, Black Kettle and 80 lodges of his followers (perhaps 100 men and their families) left the main body and joined the Kiowa and Comanche south of the Arkansas River. Many of the Southern Arapaho likewise had moved south of the Arkansas. \n\nFrom January 28 to February 2, the Indians embarked on a great raid along the valley of the South Platte River. The Cheyenne raided west of Julesburg, the Northern Arapaho near Julesburg, and the Sioux east of Julesburg, destroying a dozen or more ranches and stagecoach stations along of the river valley and accumulating a large herd of captured cattle. Near Valley Station (present day Sterling, Colorado), the Cheyenne had a brush with soldiers. Illustrating the difference in accounts between soldiers and Indians, Lt. J. J. Kennedy said that his force had a battle with the raiders and killed 10 to 20 Indians and recovered 400 stolen cattle. George Bent said it was a minor skirmish in which no Indians were killed or wounded and the only cattle the soldiers recovered were the ones the Indians had abandoned as too poor to steal. During the raid, the Cheyenne encountered a group of nine former soldiers. They killed all nine of them and discovered two Cheyenne scalps in their luggage from the Sand Creek massacre. Although soldiers and ranchers claimed to have inflicted heavy casualties on the raiders, Bent said he knew of only four Indians who were killed during the raids. Three were Sioux who were killed while attacking a wagon train and one was an Arapaho who was killed accidentally by a Cheyenne. \n\nOn February 2, the Indians left their large camp on the South Platte River and continued north toward the Powder River country of Wyoming to join their relatives there. The Sioux led the way as they were most familiar with the territory. En route the Indians had two more skirmishes in Nebraska with the U.S. army at Mud Springs and Rush Creek. In subsequent months, the Indians frequently raided wagon trains and military establishments along the Oregon Trail in Wyoming. In the summer of 1865, the Indians launched a large-scale offensive in the Battle of Platte Bridge (present-day Casper, Wyoming) achieving a minor victory. Later that summer, the U.S. army invaded Indian territory in Wyoming with more than 2,000 soldiers in the ineffective Powder River Expedition.\n\nHistorian John D. McDermott said that the Colorado War was the last time the Northern and Southern Cheyennes and Arapahos and the Brulé Sioux were united to effectively resist the tide of white settlers and soldiers traveling through and settling on what had formerly been their lands. \"Never again would the Sioux and their allies take the offensive as they did at Julesburg, Mud Springs, Rush Springs,\" and other battles of the Colorado War. Thereafter, the battles between Indians and whites \"would become more reactive, rather than active, meant to defend a homeland rather than punish a perpetrator\" as the Indian reaction to the Sand Creek massacre was intended to be. \n\nBy December 1865, the Colorado War had fizzled out. Most of the Southern Cheyenne and Arapaho who had journeyed north to Wyoming had returned to the southern Great Plains. The Brulé Sioux under Spotted Tail who had been allies of the Cheyenne and Arapaho had peacefully settled near Fort Laramie. Black Kettle, always seeking peace, signed the Little Arkansas Treaty in October 1865 obligating his band of Southern Cheyenne to move to Indian Territory (present-day Oklahoma). Roman Nose and the Dog Soldiers continued to be hostile and to raid and fight the U.S. army in Kansas and Colorado.\n\nThe two mixed-blood Cheyennes, George Bent and Edmund Guerrier, also returned to the southern plains. Bent became an interpreter between the Cheyenne and the whites and, through a series of letters to scholar George Hyde, a historian of the Colorado War and the Cheyenne. Guerrier worked for a time as a scout for George Armstrong Custer in campaigns against his Cheyenne relatives and as an interpreter for many interactions between the tribe and the United States. Guerrier married Julia Bent, sister of George Bent and also a survivor of the Sand Creek massacre.\n\nIn 1865, a Congressional Committee of the United States investigated the Sand Creek massacre and concluded the following: \"the truth is that he [Col. Chivington] surprised and murdered, in cold blood, the unsuspecting men, women, and children on Sand creek, who had every reason to believe they were under the protection of the United States authorities, and then returned to Denver and boasted of the brave deed he and the men under his command had performed.\" Chivington had already resigned his military commission and thus was not prosecuted for the massacre. After Sand Creek, Chivington changed residences frequently and was involved in several scandals. He defended his actions at Sand Creek until the end of his life in 1894. The Methodist Church, of which he was a lay preacher, apologized for his actions in 1996 and a street named after him in Longmont, Colorado was renamed in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898736", "title": "Christopher Seufert", "text": "Christopher Seufert\n\nChristopher Seufert (born 1967) is a documentary film producer and director, and photographer based in Chatham, Massachusetts. His production company is Mooncusser Films.\n\nAccording to IMDB his film work has appeared on the Discovery Channel, the History Channel, PBS, and Twin Cities Public Television. He is most known for his . His additional works include Direct Cinema documentaries with alterna-folk musician Suzanne Vega, the late writer/illustrator Edward Gorey, Depeche Mode musician Vince Clark Vince Clarke, journalist Walter Cronkite Walter Cronkite and filmmaker Albert Maysles. He also directed music videos for David Ryan of the Lemonheads and musician Chris Trapper of the Push Stars.\n\nHis photography is published in 6 hard-cover photography books including his most recent, The Cape Cod National Seashore: A Photographic Adventure and Guide (Schiffer, 2012) and Cape Cod & the Islands Reflections (Schiffer, 2010).\n\nHe received his BA in English from Trinity College and his MA in Anthropology from California State University, East Bay. According to interviews with NewEnglandFilm.com and the Boston Globe his academic background was as a journalist and archaeologist and he split his time among these disciplines until the mid-90s when he dedicated himself full-time to documentary production.\n\nAccording to IMDB Seufert also directed actress Julie Harris as voice talent in five documentary projects and directed CBS journalist Walter Cronkite in a 2005 documentary about the early wireless stations of radio pioneer Guglielmo Marconi. As Cronkite's last project it was winner of the Massachusetts Cultural Council Gold Star Award. According to a Czech website, in 2017 he is in-progress with a documentary portrait of direct-cinema director Albert Maysles.\n\nHe has also noted for creating original natural environment recordings through the use of binaural recording techniques with the Neumann KU-100 head microphone. He's produced an international world soundscapes series and also a 20-part series of Cape Cod recordings that are published at iTunes and Spotify.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898741", "title": "Ethogram", "text": "Ethogram\n\nAn ethogram is a catalogue or inventory of behaviours or actions exhibited by an animal used in ethology. \n\nThe behaviours in an ethogram are usually defined to be mutually exclusive and objective, avoiding subjectivity and functional inference as to their possible purpose. For example, a species may use a putative threat display, which in the ethogram is given a descriptive name such as \"head forward\" or \"chest-beating display\", and not \"head forward threat\" or \"chest-beating threat\". This degree of objectivity is required because what looks like \"courtship\" might have a completely different function, and in addition, the same motor patterns in different species can have very different functions (e.g. tail wagging in cats and dogs). Objectivity and clarity in the definitions of behaviours also improve inter-observer reliability. \n\nOften, ethograms are hierarchical in presentation. The defined behaviours are recorded under broader categories of behaviour which may allow functional inference such that \"head forward\" is recorded under \"Aggression\". In ethograms of social behaviour, the ethogram may also indicate the \"Giver\" and \"Receiver\" of activities.\n\nSometimes, the definition of a behaviour in an ethogram may have arbitrary components. For example, \"Stereotyped licking\" might be defined as \"licking the bars of the cage more than 5 times in 30 seconds\". The definition may be arguable, but if it is stated clearly, it fulfils the requirements of scientific repeatability and clarity of reporting and data recording.\n\nSome ethograms are given in pictorial form and not only catalogue the behaviours but indicate the frequency of their occurrence and the probability that one behaviour follows another. This probability can be indicated numerically or by the thickness of an arrow connecting the two behaviours. Sometimes the proportion of time that each behaviour occupies can be represented in a pie chart or bar chart\n\nEthograms are used extensively in the study of welfare science. Ethograms can be used to detect the occurrence or prevalence of abnormal behaviours (e.g. stereotypies, feather pecking, tail-biting), normal behaviours (e.g. comfort behaviours), departures from the ethogram of ancestral species and the behaviour of captive animals upon release into a natural environment.\n\nEthograms have also been applied to research concerning the behavioural response of animals to the presence of humans. For example, it has been used to analyze the reactions of black bears and baboons to humans.\n\nA sample ethogram of general behaviour: \n"}
{"id": "1898746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898746", "title": "Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1", "text": "Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1\n\nPlasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) also known as endothelial plasminogen activator inhibitor or serpin E1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the \"SERPINE1\" gene. Elevated PAI-1 is a risk factor for thrombosis and atherosclerosis\n\nPAI-1 is a serine protease inhibitor (serpin) that functions as the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), the activators of plasminogen and hence fibrinolysis (the physiological breakdown of blood clots). It is a serine protease inhibitor (serpin) protein (SERPINE1).\n\nThe other PAI, plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2) is secreted by the placenta and only present in significant amounts during pregnancy. In addition, protease nexin acts as an inhibitor of tPA and urokinase. PAI-1, however, is the main inhibitor of the plasminogen activators.\n\nThe PAI-1 gene is \"SERPINE1\", located on chromosome 7 (7q21.3-q22). There is a common polymorphism known as 4G/5G in the promoter region. The 5G allele is slightly less transcriptionally active than the 4G.\n\nPAI-1's main function entails the inhibition of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), an enzyme responsible for the cleavage of plasminogen to form plasmin. Plasmin mediates the degradation of the extracellular matrix either by itself or in conjunction with matrix metalloproteinases. In this scenario, PAI-1 inhibits uPA via active site binding, preventing the formation of plasmin. Additional inhibition is mediated by PAI-1 binding to the uPA/uPA receptor complex, resulting in the latter's degradation. Thus, PAI can be said to inhibit the serine proteases tPA and uPA/urokinase, and hence is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis, the physiological process that degrades blood clots. In addition, PAI-1 inhibits the activity of matrix metalloproteinases, which play a crucial role in invasion of malignant cells through the basal lamina.\n\nPAI-1 is mainly produced by the endothelium (cells lining blood vessels), but is also secreted by other tissue types, such as adipose tissue.\n\nCongenital deficiency of PAI-1 has been reported; as fibrinolysis is not suppressed adequately, it leads to a hemorrhagic diathesis (a tendency to hemorrhage).\n\nPAI-1 is present in increased levels in various disease states (such as a number of forms of cancer), as well as in obesity and the metabolic syndrome. It has been linked to the increased occurrence of thrombosis in patients with these conditions.\n\nIn inflammatory conditions in which fibrin is deposited in tissues, PAI-1 appears to play a significant role in the progression to fibrosis (pathological formation of connective tissue). Presumably, lower PAI levels would lead to less suppression of fibrinolysis and conversely a more rapid degradation of the fibrin.\n\nAngiotensin II increases synthesis of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, so it accelerates the development of atherosclerosis.\n\n\nPlasminogen activator inhibitor-1 has been shown to interact with ORM1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898759", "title": "William Ogilvie (surveyor)", "text": "William Ogilvie (surveyor)\n\nWilliam Ogilvie FRGS (April 7, 1846, Ottawa – November 13, 1912, Winnipeg, Manitoba) was a Canadian Dominion land surveyor, explorer and Commissioner of the Yukon Territory.\n\nHe was born on a farm in Gloucester Township, Canada West in an area now known as Glen Ogilvie to James Ogilvie of Belfast Ireland and Margaret Holliday Ogilvie of Peebles, Scotland. Ogilvie articled as a surveyor with Robert Sparks, qualifying to practice as a Provincial Land Surveyor in 1869. He married Sparks' sister Mary, a school teacher, on March 8, 1872. He worked locally as a land surveyor, qualified as a Dominion Land Surveyor in 1872 and was first hired by the Dominion government in 1875.\n\nHe was responsible for numerous surveys from the 1870s to the 1890s, mainly in the Prairie Provinces. From 1887 to 1889, Ogilvie was involved in George Mercer Dawson's exploration and survey expedition in what later became the Yukon Territory. He surveyed the Chilkoot Pass, the Yukon and Porcupine rivers. Ogilvie established the location of the boundary between the Yukon and Alaska on the 141st meridian west.\nDuring the Klondike Gold Rush, he surveyed the townsite of Dawson City and was responsible for settling many disputes between miners. Ogilvie became the Yukon's second Commissioner in 1898 at the height of the gold rush, and resigned because of ill-health in 1901.\n\nHe was the author of \"Early Days on the Yukon\" (1913), which is still available in facsimile reprints. The Ogilvie Mountains, Ogilvie River and Ogilvie Aerodrome in the Northern Yukon Territory along with Ogilvie Valley in the Southern Yukon Territory are named after him.\n\nOgilvie performed the following surveys for the Surveyor-General of Canada:\n\n1875 - 76—Township outlines south of Dauphin.\n1878 - 79—Surveys of Indian Reserves, Bow River.\n1880—Township outlines West of York.\n1881 -- Fourth meridian to Township 40.\n1882—Seventh base line West of Fourth meridian.\n1883 -- Fifth meridian from Edmonton to Athabasca River and Twenty-first base line Westerly.\n1884—Micrometer survey of Peace River from Chipewyan to Dunvegan and Athabasca River from Slave River to Athabasca Landing.\n1885—Traverse along C.P.R. in British Columbia.\n1887—Exploration surveys—Yukon River and Mackenzie River.\n1888 - 89—Surveys and explorations—Porcupine, Lewes, Bell, Trout and Peel River.\n1890—Exploration survey between Lake Temiscamingue and Hudson Bay.\n1891—Examination between Liard and Peace Rivers.\n1892—Subdivision and re-surveys in Prince Albert District.\n\n'Pride and Perseverance', a Gloucester Museum display which ran September to May 1994, honoured native son William Ogilvie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898761", "title": "Maria Island", "text": "Maria Island\n\nMaria Island (or Toarra-Marra-Monah or Tiarra-Marra-Monah in Paredarerme), is a mountainous island located in the Tasman Sea, off the east coast of Tasmania, Australia. The island is contained within the Maria Island National Park, which includes a marine area of off the island's northwest coast. The island is about in length from north to south and, at its widest, is about west to east. At its closest point, Point Lesueur, the island lies approximately off the east coast of Tasmania.\n\nTasmanians pronounce the name , as did the early British settlers but the original pronunciation was . The island was named in 1642 by Dutch explorer Abel Tasman after Maria van Diemen (née van Aelst), wife of Anthony van Diemen, the Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies in Batavia. The island was known as \"Maria's Isle\" in the early 19th century.\n\nThe strait between Maria Island and the east coast of mainland Tasmania is called Mercury Passage and was named after HMS \"Mercury\", commanded by John Henry Cox, who charted the area in 1789. There are two towns of size in this part of the east coast: Orford at the mouth of the Prosser River and Triabunna, some further north at the head of Spring Bay.\n\nThe island's sole settlement is Darlington, near the northern tip of the island. Darlington has many old buildings and it has no permanent inhabitants other than a few park rangers. During the summer holiday period, up to several hundred tourists visit the island. Tourism is important to the local economy. In nearby Triabunna other major industries are fishing, forestry and agriculture. Rock lobster, scalefish, scallops and abalone are taken near the island by both commercial and recreational fishermen, and mussels are farmed in Mercury Passage.\n\nMaria Island has a rich history. Before the colonial era, Aboriginal people of the Tyreddeme band of the Oyster Bay tribe journeyed regularly to the island and much evidence of their presence remains, particularly around the bays on either side of the island's isthmus. In 1802 the French expedition led by Nicolas Baudin encountered the Aboriginal people of Maria Island, as did the whalers of the early 19th century. René Maugé, the zoologist on Baudin's expedition, was buried on Point Maugé on south Maria Island.\n\nFor two periods during the first half of the 19th century, Maria Island hosted convict settlements. The island's first convict era was between 1825 and 1832 and its second - the probation station era - between 1842 and 1851. Among those held during the second era was the Irish nationalist leader William Smith O'Brien, exiled for his part in the Young Irelander Rebellion of 1848. His cottage still exists in the nearby former penal colony Port Arthur to where he was deported after his time on Maria Island. He was later transferred to New Norfolk on the Derwent River upstream of Hobart.\n\nThree structures from the first convict era remain in the Darlington area: the Commissariat Store built in 1825 and presently used as the park's reception and visitor centre; the convict penitentiary, completed in 1828 and now used to accommodate visitors rather than detain them; and the convict-built dam on Bernacchis Creek, which still provides Darlington's water.\n\nSealing was conducted on the island from at least 1805. Shore-based bay whaling was conducted in the 1830s and 1840s at four locations on the island: Darlington, Isle du Nord, Whalers Cove and Haunted Bay. In the 19th century, whaling ships sometimes anchored off shore and hunted for whales.\n\nFrom the 1880s, the Italian entrepreneur Diego Bernacchi set up island enterprises, including silk and wine production and a cement factory, quarrying limestone deposits at the Fossil Cliffs for the raw material. A substantial cement works was built at Darlington in the early 1920s, with a 2 ft gauge tramway linking the quarries to the cement works and a new jetty. At the height of its fortunes in the early 20th century, Darlington had hundreds of residents and several hotels. By July 1930, all of those ventures had failed for a number of reasons, including the Great Depression, poor quality limestone, and competition from mainland producers who were not burdened with high costs of transport.\n\nFor a period of 40 years until the late 1960s, the island was dominated by farming. The South Island was farmed by John Robey, a South African, with his wife Hilda. Robey's Farm is located on the west side of the south island, and although essentially complete in a \"just walked away\" fashion as late as the early 1980s, the location has since been extensively vandalised, and the farmhouse further damaged by weather and neglect by the Parks and Wildlife Service.\n\nThe Tasmanian Government resumed all of the island's freehold land and established the national park, proclaimed in 1972 and extended in 1991, to include part of the surrounding sea.\n\nMaria Island takes the form of a figure-eight, with the northern section of the island significantly larger than the southern. Both parts of the island have quite rugged relief and they are joined by a tombolo about long known as McRaes Isthmus. The highest point, Mount Maria, is in the northern part of the island and stands above sea level. Maria Island has been separated from nearby mainland Tasmania for some 3-4 thousand years.\n\nFourteen distinct terrestrial plant communities occur on the island, which is mostly clothed in various forms of eucalypt forest. Natural and historical clearings provide grazing for many animals, such as bare-nosed wombats (\"Vombatus ursinus\") which occur in high quantities on the island and Tasmanian pademelons. Nearly all the island's animals are native to Tasmania although some, including eastern grey kangaroos, red-necked wallabies, and Cape Barren geese, were introduced during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Fallow deer were also introduced to the island and were present primarily in the French's Farm area, but sometimes wandered as far north as the small marsh behind Hopground Beach, just north of Rutherford Beach. Sheep were present until around 1981, escapes from prior sheep farming operations. Other animals include common brushtail, ringtail possums, short-beaked echidnas and three species of snake.\n\nMaria Island has been identified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area (IBA) because it supports significant numbers of endangered swift parrots and forty-spotted pardalotes, over 1% of the world population of Pacific gulls, as well as populations of most of Tasmania's endemic bird species.\n\nIn November 2012 captive Tasmanian devils were introduced to the island and are cared for by the Tasmania Parks and Wildlife Service staff who live on the island. These devils form part of the \"insurance population\" of devils unaffected by the devil facial tumour disease that is sweeping through mainland Tasmania's devil population. Tasmanian devils are sometimes seen by visitors. There is some evidence that the devils are impacting on the bird life of the island.\n\nThe marine section of the national park protects a representative area of Tasmanian East Coast marine habitat, and has significantly larger individuals and populations of key marine species than surrounding waters. This area is one of the most intensively studied marine protected areas in Australia and is popular with divers. The marine section of the park extends from an unnamed point north-east of Bishop and Clerk, westwards to Cape Boullanger and then southwards as far as Return Point. The marine boundary's definition varies, but it is never more than 1 km from Maria Island's low water mark.\n\nA ferry sails multiple times a day from the town of Triabunna to the jetty in Darlington Bay at the northern end of Maria Island, a distance by sea of 16 km or nearly nine nautical miles. In winter, some sailings are subject to demand, while in summer extra sailings are provided. A previous ferry operation out of Louisville (near Orford) is now defunct. Common dolphins, Australian fur seals and seabirds such as Australasian gannets and shy albatrosses are often seen on the voyage. Tourist flights to the island can be made from Cambridge Airport or Friendly Beaches.\n\nVery basic accommodation is available in Darlington in \"the Penitentiary\", a former place of internment, built during the first convict era. Bookings can be made with the Parks and Wildlife Service. There are ten rooms that have bunk beds with vinyl mattresses, a table and chairs, and a wood heater. Nine of the rooms sleep six people each, and the tenth sleeps fourteen people. All cooking gear, lighting, bedding and food must be brought to the island. There is no electricity or running water in the rooms, but toilets, hot showers, and barbecues are nearby. Many visitors also choose to camp in the camping area in Darlington - an advance booking is not necessary for this.\n\nWalking, bicycling, swimming, snorkelling, diving, bird watching, wildlife observation and relaxation are the main activities undertaken by visitors. Many people take interest in Maria Island's history, and most of the island's walks include sites of historic interest. The Painted Cliffs and the Fossil Cliffs are two popular walking destinations for day visitors, both on the island's coastline. The Painted Cliffs are sandstone with beautiful patterns formed through staining by iron oxide. The Fossil Cliffs are tall limestone cliffs containing prolific ancient fossils. Longer day walks include tracks that ascend Bishop and Clerk () and Mount Maria (). Mount Maria is a six- to seven-hour return walk from Darlington while Bishop and Clerk can be completed in about four hours return.\n\nNearly all roads and tracks on the island are suitable for bicycling. Bicycles and helmets can be rented in Triabunna and brought over on the ferry. A bicycle is a must for those who want to see as much of the island as possible on a day trip. Bicycle-riding is not permitted on beaches or on the two mountain tracks.\n\nA vehicular track extends from Darlington south to Haunted Bay on south Maria Island, with a number of side-tracks and points of interest along the way. Haunted Bay is so named because of the constant calling in the evening of the many fairy penguins that live there. The track south is the usual route for people doing bike rides or multi-day walks. The major campsites outside Darlington are at Frenchs Farm, from Darlington, and Encampment Cove, a further away, which is also used by boating visitors. This area is referred to by boaters as Chinamans Bay (Chinamans is the bay just north of Encampment Cove). Both Frenchs Farm and Encampment Cove have rainwater tanks. The Frenchs Farm tank is less likely to run out during summer. Water can be hard to find elsewhere.\n\nFrom Encampment Cove it is only a little more than a walk to the ruins of Maria Island's second (probation-era) convict station at Point Lesueur on the island's west coast (also known as Long Point). Soldiers Beach and Bloodstone Beach on the western side of the island are also well worth the effort that it takes to reach them, as are Shoal Bay and Riedle Bay, the beaches either side of McRaes Isthmus.\n\nIn 2007 a disused coastal trader, the \"Troy D\", was scuttled outside the marine section of the national park, west-southwest of the Painted Cliffs, with the intention of creating a dive wreck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898775", "title": "Rage Against the Machine (video)", "text": "Rage Against the Machine (video)\n\nRage Against the Machine (also known as Rage Against the Machine: The Video) is the official self-titled debut video release by American rock band Rage Against the Machine. The video was released in 1997 and includes footage from various performances as well as video clips.\n\nTowards the end of their Summer 1997 Evil Empire tour, the Band decided to\nput together a video, as they had a huge backlog of video\nshowing the band live. They taped the last two shows\nof the tour, then added live material from 1994, 1996, and all the music\nvideos up through \"People of the Sun.\"\n\nAllMusic writer JT Griffith wrote \"Overall, the quality of the video is fine, but the music mix is low and a bit muddy.\" \nTom Sinclair of Entertainment Weekly gave the video a B writing \"Armchair headbangers rejoice: This concert tape of American and European dates (with all of Rage Against the Machine's videos appended) lets you experience RATM's galvanic rap-metal fusion without suffering the indignities of a mosh pit.\"\n\nLive in Concert\nUncensored Video Clips (Official Music Videos) \n\nSong in Credits \n"}
{"id": "1898784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898784", "title": "PNS Ghazi", "text": "PNS Ghazi\n\nThe PNS/M \"Ghazi (S–130) (previously USS \"Diablo\" (SS-479); reporting name: Ghazi\"), , was a diesel-electric and the first fast-attack submarine in the Pakistan Navy, leased from the United States in 1963.\n\nShe served in the United States Navy from 1945 to 1963 and was loaned to Pakistan under the Security Assistance Program (SAP) on a four-year lease after the Ayub administration successfully negotiated with the Kennedy administration for its procurement. In 1964, she joined the Pakistan Navy and saw the military actions in the Indo-Pakistani theatres in 1965 and, later in 1971.\n\nIn 1968, \"Ghazi\" executed a submerged circumnavigation of Africa and southern parts of Europe through the Indian Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean due to the closure of the Suez Canal in order to be refitted and updated at Gölcük, Turkey. The submarine could be armed with up to ~28 Mk.14 torpedoes and had the capability of mine-laying added as part of her refit.\n\nStarting from being the only submarine in the Indo-Pakistani war of 1965, \"Ghazi\" remained the Pakistan Navy's flagship submarine until she sank under mysterious circumstances near India's eastern coast while conducting naval operations en route to the Bay of Bengal. While the Indian Navy credits \"Ghazi\"s sinking to its destroyer , the Pakistani military oversights and reviews stated that \"the submarine sank due to either an internal explosion or accidental detonation of mines being laid by the submarine off the Visakhapatnam harbour\".\n\nIndian historians consider the sinking of \"Ghazi\" to be a notable event and they have described the sinking as one of the \"last unsolved greatest mysteries of the 1971 war.\"\n\n, a long-range fast-attack was launched on 1 December 1944, sponsored by the wife of U.S. Navy's Captain V. D. Chapline on 31 March 1945 with Lieutenant Commander Gordon Graham Matheson as her first commanding officer.\n\nShe was the only warship of the United States Navy to be named \"Diablo\", which means \"devil\" in Spanish. The submarine's assigned and issued insignia patch identified the caricature image of the devil running with a torpedo in the sea.\n\nAfter being commissioned at the Portsmouth Navy Yard on 31 March 1945, \"Diablo\" arrived at Pearl Harbor from New London, Connecticut on 21 July and sailed on her first war patrol on 10 August with instructions to stop at Saipan for final orders. With the ceasefire, her destination was changed to Guam where she arrived on 22 August 1945. On the last day of the month, she got underway for Pearl Harbor and the East Coast arriving at New York City on 11 October, except for a visit to Charleston, South Carolina in October where she remained at New York until 8 January 1946.\n\nFrom 15 January 1946 to 27 April 1949, \"Diablo\" was based in the Panama Canal Zone participating in fleet exercises and rendering services to surface units in the Caribbean Sea. From 23 August to 2 October 1947, she joined the submarines and for a simulated war patrol down the west coast of South America and around Tierra del Fuego. The three submarines called at Valparaíso, Chile, in September while homeward bound. \"Diablo\" sailed to Key West, Florida, for antisubmarine warfare exercises, from 16 November to 9 December 1947, and operated from New Orleans, Louisiana, for the training of naval reservists in March 1948.\n\n\"Diablo\" arrived at Naval Station Norfolk in Virginia, her new home port, on 5 June 1949, and participated in Operation Convex in 1951, and alternated training cruises with duty at the Sonar School at Key West. Her homeport became New London in 1952 and she arrived there 17 September to provide training facilities for the Submarine School.\n\nFrom 3 May to 1 June 1954, she was attached to the Operational Development Force at Key West for tests of new weapons and equipment. She participated in Operation Springboard in the Caribbean from 21 February to 28 March 1955, and continued to alternate service with the Submarine School with antisubmarine warfare and fleet exercises in the Caribbean and off Bermuda, as well as rendering services to the Fleet Sonar School and Operational Development Force at Key West. Between February and April 1959, she cruised through the Panama Canal along the coasts of Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Chile for exercises with South American navies. On 27 May 1960, she entered Philadelphia Naval Shipyard for an overhaul which continued until October 1960.\n\nIn 1962, her hull classification symbol was changed to AGSS-479.\n\nThe procurement and acquisition of \"Ghazi\" was a result of lengthy and complicated negotiation between the administrations of Pakistan and the United States. \nSince the 1950s the Pakistan Navy had been seeking to procure imported submarines, initially negotiating with the Royal Navy and subsequently also with the United States Navy.\n\nWith Ayub administration improving relations with the Eisenhower administration in 1960, \"Ghazi\" was finally procured under the Security Assistance Program (SAP) authorized by the Kennedy administration on a four-year lease with an option of renewing or purchasing the submarine afterwards in 1963.\n\n\"Ghazi\" was the first submarine to be operated by a Navy in South Asia becoming a serious threat to the Indian Navy. Contrary to popular perception, \"Ghazi\" technological feats were downgraded and extensively refitted its Fleet Snorkel under the Guppy program of the U.S. Navy at the Philadelphia Naval Dockyard, and was mostly unmodernized when she joined the services of Pakistan Navy. Naval historians had described \"Ghazi\" as an unarmed \"clockwork mouse\" used for training purposes. Nonetheless, the Indian Navy immediately was under the impression that it was militarized and an updated submarine that posed a serious threat.\n\nShe was fitted with 14 vintage Mark-14 torpedoes which had the controversy and notoriety of its own during the World War II. On 4 September 1964, she arrived at the Naval Dockyard in Karachi and joined the Navy as its first long-range fast-attack submarine. She was named and designated as \"Ghazi\" (lit. Holiest Warrior) by the Pakistan Navy in 1964.\n\nOn 5 August 1965, the war broke out between India and Pakistan as a result of covert infiltration in Indian Kashmir, and \"Ghazi\", at that time, was under the command of then-Commander Karamat Rahman Niazi, who would later ascend as a four-star admiral in the Navy. Other officers who served in \"Ghazi\" were then-Lieutenant-Commander Ahmed Tasnim (later promoted as Vice-Admiral), Sub-Lieutenant Fasih Bokhari, and Lieutenant Zafar Muhammad who would later command her, as a Commander, in 1971.\n\nThe notable commanding officers of \"Ghazi\" in 1965 included:\nShe was the only submarine in the conflict arena that was deployed in the war theatre with a mission scope of attacking only heavy and major warships of the Indian Navy. She only aided the tactical task force under the command of Commodore S.M. Anwar that launched a naval artillery battery on the Indian Air Force's radar station in Dwarka, Gujarat, India. She was also seeking , the only aircraft carrier, but did not detect her target during the entire conflict. On 9 September 1965, INS \"Beas\" made an unsuccessful depth charge attack in an attempt to make a contact with \"Ghazi\".\n\nOn 17 September 1965, \"Ghazi\" made a surface contact and identified INS \"Brahmaputra\" and fired three World War II-era Mark 14 torpedoes and increased depth to evade the counterattack. According to submarine war logs, there were three distinct explosions that were heard at about the time when the torpedoes should have impacted but \"Brahmaputra\" was not sunk neither it had been hit it since the warship did not release the depth charge nor it had detected the homing signal. No ships were sunk or damaged in the area and \"Ghazi\" safely reported back to base.\n\nUpon her return, she won ten war awards including two decorations of \"Sitara-e-Jurat\", one \"Tamgha-i-Jurat\", and the President's citations and six Imtiazi Sanads while her commander, Cdr. K.R. Niazi was decorated with the Sitara-e-Jurat and chief petty officers were decorated with the Tamgha-i-Jurat. It is not known what \"Ghazi\"s target was or what were the three mysterious explosions were since no inquiry report was ever submitted.\n\nAfter the war, an arms embargo was placed in 1965–66 on both India and Pakistan but was later waived by the United States that was strictly based on the cash and carry method as \"Ghazi\" badly needing refitting. In 1967, the Navy applied to renew another four-year lease deal which was duly approved by the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Government but her material state and equipment continued to deteriorate. The Navy then signed a deal with the Turkish Navy for a refit and mid-life update that was to be carried out at Gölcük in Turkey – the only facility to update the \"Tench\"-class submarines.\n\nBecause of the Six-Day War in Middle East which had closed the Suez Canal due to the Egyptian Navy's blockage in 1967, \"Ghazi\", under the command of Commander Ahmed Tasnim, had to execute a submerged circumnavigation in 1968 from Africa to Western Europe which began from Karachi coast to Cape of Good Hope, South Africa and then through the Atlantic Ocean and it ended at the east coast of the Sea of Marmara where the Gölcük Naval Shipyard is located. Chief of Naval Staff Admiral S.M. Ahsan had arranged necessary refitting of \"Ghazi\"s computers at the Karachi Engineering and Shipyard Works (KESW) from the help from the local industry such as DESTO.\n\nDuring her submerged circumnavigation voyage, she briefly stopped at Mombasa, Kenya for refueling and, in Maputo, Mozambique before making a farewell visit at Simon's Town, South Africa. After passing the Cape of Good Hope, she made another stopover at Luanda, Angola for victualing and continued her journey towards Western Europe to stopover at Toulon, France where she was greeted by the French Navy. Her final stopover was at İzmir in Turkey and submerged through the east coast of the Sea of Marmara to dock at the Gölcük Naval Shipyard which was the only facility to upgrade the \"Tench\"-class based computers and other electromechanical equipments. It took her two months to complete her circumnavigation of Africa and Europe.\n\nRefitting and mid-life upgrading of her military computers reportedly cost ~$1.5 million ($11.1 million in 2015–16). The program started in March 1968 and completed in April 1970 and it is believed that the U.S-made ill-fitted World War II era Mk.14/Mk.10 naval mines were bought \"secretly\" from Turkey.\n\nUnder the command of Lieutenant-Commander Yousaf Raza, \"Ghazi\" returned to Karachi coast after successfully completing the submerged circumnavigation of Africa which was taken in order to undergo a refitting program and mid-life updates of her military computers on 2 April 1970.\n\nIn August 1971, the Indian Navy transferred INS \"Vikrant\", its aircraft carrier, to the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam that forced the Pakistan Navy to adjust its submarine operations. Before 1971, there were several proposals made to the Ayub administration to strengthen the naval defense of East Pakistan but none were made feasible and the Navy was in no position to mount a defence against an approaching Indian naval advances. After the defection of Pakistan Navy's Bengali officers and sailors to India, the Eastern Command (Pakistan) was under intense pressure to counter the insurgency and the advance of the Indian Army towards East Pakistan on three fronts. The Yahya administration insisted the Navy attempt to reinforce the naval defence of the East while the Navy NHQ objected to the idea of deploying \"Ghazi\" in the total absence of a seaport, straying away from their original plan. Many senior commanders had felt that the deployment of \"Ghazi\" was highly dangerous and impossible to achieve by sending the obsolete submarine behind enemy lines but deployment came when it became apparent that the war was inevitable.\n\nPrior to her deployment, \"Ghazi\" continued to experience equipment failures and reportedly had aging issues. Since it was the only submarine of the Pakistan Navy and had the range and capability to undertake operations in the distant waters controlled by India, \"Ghazi\" was pressed into operation to destroy or damage \"Vikrant\". On 14 November 1971, she quietly sailed around the Indian peninsula from the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal under the command of Zafar Muhammad who was commanding a submarine for the first time, with 10 officers and 82 sailors. \"Ghazi\" was on a two-fold mission: the primary goal was to locate and sink \"Vikrant\" and secondary was to mine India's eastern seaboard which was to be fulfilled irrespective of the accomplishment of the first.\n\nThe mysterious sinking of \"Ghazi\" took place on 4 December 1971 during its hunt to find \"Vikrant\" and/or during the minelaying mission on the Visakhapatnam Port, Bay of Bengal. The cause of the sinking is still unknown, and Indian and Pakistani sources have different views.\n\nOn 16 November, she was in contact with the Navy NHQ and Commander Khan charted the coordinates that reported that she was off Bombay. On 19 November, she was off to Sri Lanka and entered in Bay of Bengal on 20 November 1971. Around this time, the Top Secret files were opened as instructed and the hunt for \"Vikrant\" began on 23 November and \"Ghazi\" was off to Madras where reportedly the Indian aircraft carrier was stationed but she was 10 days late and \"Vikrant\" was now actually somewhere near the Andaman Islands. Unable to detect her target, \"Ghazi\"s commanders became disillusioned about their hunt for \"Vikrant\" and turned back to Visakhapatnam to start laying mines off the harbour with a confidence that it will take its swipe at \"Vikrant\" or at least bottle up the Indian Navy's heavy units clustered in this major Indian naval base on the night of 2–3 December 1971.\"\n\nOn 1 December 1971, Vice Admiral Nilakanta Krishnan briefed Captain Inder Singh, the commanding officer of , that a Pakistani submarine had been sighted off the Sri Lankan coast and was absolutely certain that the submarine would be somewhere around Madras or Visakhapatnam. He made it clear that once \"Rajput\" had completed refueling, she must leave the harbor with all navigational aids switched off.\n\nAccording to Indian claims, at 23:40 on 3 December 1971, taking on board a pilot, \"Rajput\" moved through the channel to the exit from Visakhapatnam.\n\nAt midnight, shortly after passing the entrance buoy, the starboard lookout reported a breaker on the surface of the water right on the nose. According to the Indian Navy's claims, Captain Singh changed the course at full speed across the specified point and ordered to drop two depth charges, which was done. The explosions were \"stunning\", and \"Rajput\" suffered a serious material concussion to its structure. However, visible results of this attack are not given. \"Rajput\" for some time surveyed the area dumping bombs, no longer found any contact — either visual or acoustic. A few minutes later, the destroyer continued her way to the coast of East Pakistan.\n\nOn the night of 4–5 December 1971, \"Ghazi\" sunk with all 93 servicemen on board (11 officers and 82 enlisted) under the mysterious circumstances off the Visakhapatnam coast, allowing the Indian Navy to effect a naval blockade of East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).\n\nAccording to Indian DNI's director Rear-Admiral Mihir K. Roy, \"Ghazi\"s existence was revealed when a signal addressed to naval authorities in Chittagong was intercepted, requesting information on a lubrication oil only used by submarines and minesweepers.\n\nIndian Navy intelligence tracked \"Ghazi\" with a codename issued as \"Kali Devi\", and the Indian Navy began to realize that the Pakistanis would inevitably be forced to send their submarine \"Ghazi\" to the Bay of Bengal, as the sole ship which could operate in these waters.\n\nVice Admiral Nilakanta Krishnan of the Eastern Naval Command had maintained that it was clear that Pakistan would have deployed \"Ghazi\" in the Bay of Bengal and a part of its plan was an attempt to sink the Indian aircraft carrier \"Vikrant\". At the same time concerted action was taken to disseminate misinformation designed to mislead the enemy about the true location of the aircraft carrier, and to foster confidence that the carrier was stationed at Visakhapatnam.\n\nAll these activities were apparently successful in deceiving \"Ghazi\" when on 25 November 1971, the Navy NHQ communicated with \"Ghazi\" that stated: \"INTEL INDICATES CARRIER IN PORT Visakhapatnam\".\n\nOn 26 November 1971, \"Ghazi\" was expected to communicate with the Navy NHQ to submit its mission report but did not communicate with its base. The Navy NHQ repeatedly made frantic efforts to establish the communication and anxiety grew as days passed for her return to the base. Before the naval hostilities broke out, commanding officers had started worrying about \"Ghazi\"s fate and had already began to agitate their minds but the Navy NHQ senior command had replied to their junior officers that several reasons could, however, be attributed to the failure of the submarine to communicate.\n\nOn 9 December, the Indian Navy issued a statement about the fate of \"Ghazi.\" The first indication of \"Ghazi\"s fate came when a message from the Indian NHQ, claiming sinking of \"Ghazi\" on the night of 3 December, was intercepted. The Indian NHQ issued the statement a few hours before the loss of , and prior to launch of second missile attack on Karachi port.\n\nAfter the ceasefire in 1971, the Government of India undertook an investigation into the incident and immediately claimed that the submarine was sunk following the series of manoeuvres by the Indian Navy. A submarine rescue vessel, INS \"Karanj\" was sent to check the debris and India later built a \"Victory at Sea Memorial\" on the coast near where \"Ghazi\" was sunk. India credits the INS \"Rajput\" for sinking \"Ghazi\" and her crew were honored with gallantry awards for this event, but the actual details of \"Ghazi\"s sinking soon began to emerge after the war.\n\nThe claim of sinking \"Ghazi\" has been the centre of controversy between the Indian authors, giving doubts in their theories of mysterious sinking of the submarine. With Commodore Ranjit Roy testifying that \"very loud explosion effects were heard at the beach that came from underwater.\" Commodore Roy also concluded that \"...at that time, how the \"Ghazi\" was sunk remained unclear as it does today.\"\n\nThe official history of Indian Navy: ‘\"Transition to Triumph\"’, authored by retired Vice-Admiral G.M. Hiranandani, gave exhaustive account of the sinking of \"Ghazi\" and quoted that the naval records and top naval officials who commanded operations on the eastern seafront as saying that INS \"Rajput\" was sent from Visakhapatnam to track down \"Ghazi\". The book also noted that the time of dropping of the charges, the explosion which was heard by the people of Visakhapatnam and that of a clock recovered from \"Ghazi\", matched. However, Admiral Hiranandani maintained that the submarine almost certainly suffered an internal explosion but its causes are debatable.\n\nAdmiral Roy of India stated: \"The theories propounded earlier by some who were unaware of the \"ruse de guerre\" (attempt to fool the enemy in wartime) leading to the sinking of the first submarine in the Indian Ocean gave rise to smirks from within our own (Indian) naval service for an operation which instead merited a \"Bravo Zulu\" (flag hoist for Well Done)\".\n\nAdmiral S. M. Nanda, Chief of Naval Staff of the Indian Navy during the conflict, stated : \"In narrow channels, ships, during an emergency or war, always throw depth charges around them to deter submarines. One of them probably hit the \"Ghazi\". The blow-up was there, but nobody knew what it was all about until the fisherman found the life jacket\".\n\nIn 2003, the Indian Navy again sent its divers to overlook its investigation and the divers recovered some items including the war logs, officials backup tapes from her computers, and mission files that were displaced in Eastern Naval Command of Indian Navy, but the divers who studied the wreckage confirmed that the submarine must have suffered an internal explosion which blew up its mines and torpedoes. Another theory suggests an explosion of hydrogen gas which violently built up inside the submarine while its batteries were being charged underwater.\n\nIn 2010, Lieutenant-General J.F.R Jacob of Eastern Command mentioned in an article that \"\"Ghazi\" was destroyed in an accident in which Indian Navy was not involved. There were many opinions from authors of the Indian side who also shared this skepticism of the Indian Navy’s official stance.\"\n\nIn 2010, it was reported that Indian navy had destroyed all records of sinking Ghazi submarine. Vice admiral G M Hiranandani who was tasked with writing the official history of the navy. He stated that he was unable to obtain any old files regarding PNS Ghazi sinking. Those old files were destroyed. One of the retired navy officer who saw the action in 1971 said that the destruction of the Ghazi papers and those of army in Kolkata depicts the many instances when Indian war history has been delibarelty falsified. He further stated that 'We have enough heroes. In fog of war, many myth and false hero may have been created and many left unsung'.\nIn 2011, former Indian naval chief, Admiral Arun Prakash quoted in the national security conference that [\"Ghazi\"] had sunk under mysterious circumstances, \"not by INS Rajput as originally claimed.\"\n\nIn 1972, the Hamoodur Rahman Commission (HRC) never carried out investigation into this incident despite its formation to assess the military and political failures of the country in the war of 1971.\n\nIt was only on 10 February 1972, when the incident was officially recognised by the Government of Pakistan and then-President Zulfikar Bhutto met with the grieving families and loved ones of the officers and sailors who served in \"Ghazi\", and told them that they may have all perished due to this incident as many of the slain family members were pushing for repatriation to the Government of Pakistan as they were keeping the hope alive that they may have survived and rescued by India.\n\nThe Naval Intelligence conducted its own investigations and its military oversights stated that \"Ghazi\" sank, when the mines it was laying, were accidentally detonated. Pakistani military oversights into this incident were not immediate instead, the Naval Intelligence took time to conclude its investigations that went on for several years. Over the decades, the military oversights were kept hidden and were not known to the public until when the Navy made an announcement over the completion of its insights into this incident. Following this announcement, Pakistan addressed the problems connecting the electromechanical failures, computer problems, and Mk.14 torpedoes' \"circular deep running\" once launched from the firing ship.\n\nPakistan never accepted the theory from Indian Navy but provided its alternative insights into this disaster based on the investigations on the Mark 14 torpedoes and other vintage military equipment installed in \"Ghazi\". According to Pakistan Navy's investigation, there were two probable reasons connecting to this mishappening:\n\nAnother theory from foreign experts, also favoured by Pakistan, is that the explosive shock waves from one of the depth charges set off the torpedoes and mines (some of which may have been armed for laying) stored aboard the submarine. The Navy NHQ counter-argued: \"Ghazi\" itself may have inadvertently passed over the mines during the mine laying operations; patrolling Indian vessels or Indian depth charges might also have tripped the count mechanism of one or more mines. Credibility is added to this story by the later discovery made by Indian Coast Guard divers in 2003, that the damaged parts of the submarine had been blown inside out.\n\nFrom the investigation conducted on the cause of the American USS \"Cochino\", it is possible that the lead-acid battery vented explosive hydrogen gas while charging underwater. Henceforth the hydrogen gas, if not properly vented, could have accumulated into an explosive concentration.\n\nIn addition, the NI's investigations also exposed the deployment of \"Ghazi\" when it was indicated that there was no indication that \"Ghazi's\" crew had ever practiced with mines, and most of its crew including its commanding officer were relatively new to the submarine for the magnitude of this type of deployment. As oppose to the U.S. Navy service which had restricted to the personnel of 81, the \"Ghazi\" complement was about 93, the award, \"Star of Courage\", acknowledged that were there were 12 extra personnel aboard the boat at the time of its sinking. An increase in the sub's total complement would put a strain on the logistical capabilities of a patrol because it reduces its duration.\n\nIn 2006, Pakistan, citing their evidences, rejected India's claim of sinking \"Ghazi\" and termed the claims as \"false and utterly absurd\".\n\nAn independent testimony stems from an Egyptian naval officer who was at that time serving on an Egyptian submarine which was undergoing refit in the harbour. He has confirmed the occurrence of a powerful explosion in the vicinity of the harbor late at night. There were no naval ships, as reported by this officer, outside the harbor at that time and it was not until about an hour after the explosion that two Indian naval ships were observed leaving harbor.\n\nSome independent writers and investigators maintained \"Ghazi\" was sunk mysteriously not by two depth charges alone, \"Ghazi\" may have sunk either by the hydrogen explosion produced when the batteries were charging, or by the detonation of a mine, or either by the sea floor impact while trying to avoid the depth charge released by INS \"Rajput\".\n\nIn 2012, Pakistani investigative journalists from \"The Express Tribune\" who were affiliated with the Express News USA based in the Washington D.C. were able to get in touch with \"Diablo's\"' retired and now-aged former US Navy crew members who were allowed to study the sonar pictures and sketches of the sunken vessel where they believed that: \"an explosion in the Forward Torpedo Room (FTR) destroyed the Ghazi.\" This view is also shared by Indian journalist Sandeep Unnithan, who specializes in military and strategic analysis.\n\nIn 1972, both the United States and the Soviet Union offered to raise the submarine to the surface at their expense. The Government of India, however, rejected these offers and allowed the submarine to sink further into the mud off the fairway buoy of Visakhapatnam.\n\nIn 2003, Indian Navy divers recovered few items from the submarine and brought up six bloated bodies of Pakistani servicemen when they blasted their way into the submarine. All six servicemen were given military honorary burial by the Indian Navy. Items recovered were the back-up tapes of the radar computers, war logs, broken windshield, top secret files, as well as one of the bodies of a Petty Officer Mechanical Engineer (POME) who had a wheel spanner tightly grasped in his fist. Another sailor had in his pocket a letter written in Urdu to his fiancée.\n\nIn 2003, additional photos were released by the Indian Navy of the vessel.\n\nIn 1972, \"Ghazi\" and her serving officers as well as crew members were honoured with gallantry awards by the Government of Pakistan. After the war, President Richard Nixon forgave the remaining debt of \"Ghazi\" to Pakistan when the U.S. Navy's CNO Admiral Elmo Zumwalt visited Admiral Mohammad Shariff in Calcutta in 1972. In addition, she remained the first and to-date the only U.S.-built submarine to have served in the Pakistan Navy, although in successive years, only surface warships had been acquired through transfers from the United States as Pakistan worked towards building its own long-range submarines, the Agosta 90B, through a technology transfer from France.\n\nAt the Naval Dockyard in Karachi, a 'Ghazi Monument' was built to perpetuate the memory of the submarine and its 93 men. In 1974, the naval base, , was commissioned and constructed in the memory of Commander Zafar Muhammad Khan that now serves as the headquarter for Northern Naval Command. In 1975, the Navy acquired the from the Portuguese Navy and named it \"Ghazi\" (S-134), in memory of PNS \"Ghazi\".\n\nHer loss to the Pakistan Navy through an accident was a watershed and a significant event, leading the Navy's engineering to the implementation of a rigorous submarine safety programme.\n\nIn 1998, the Inter-Services Public Relations produced and released the film, \"Ghazi Shaheed\" which starred Shabbir Jan as commander of \"Ghazi\", and Mishi Khan as Commander's wife; the film is based on the events involving \"Ghazi\"s mission and the lives of men who served in \"Ghazi\". Another movie, \"Untold Stories: Ghazi and Hangor\" were sponsored and released by the ISPR to commemorate \"Ghazi\" and her crew during their missions in 1971. In 2017, an Indian film was based on this submarine attack named \"The Ghazi Attack\".\n\nIn 2016, was commissioned where \"Ghazi\" was honoured and is a namesake of her first officer, Lt-Cdr. Pervez Hameed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898790", "title": "Gulnara Karimova", "text": "Gulnara Karimova\n\nGulnara Islamovna Karimova (Cyrillic Uzbek: ; , ; 8 July 1972) is the elder daughter of Islam Karimov, the leader of Uzbekistan from 1989 to his death in 2016. Karimova is the founder of the Forum of Culture and Arts of Uzbekistan Foundation and chairperson of its Board of Trustees; she is also the head of a number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) focused on cultural and social aspects of life in Uzbekistan. According to political observers, Gulnara Karimova was widely considered to be in line to succeed her father as President of Uzbekistan, however, after 2013, Gulnara had conflict with her father, and she began to rapidly lose influence in Uzbekistan.\n\nAccording to the BBC, Karimova was placed under house arrest in Tashkent, Uzbekistan in November 2014, and was rumored, according to Central Asian news reports, to have died from poisoning on 5 November 2016. Karimova was questioned by Swiss prosecutors in December 2016 regarding accusations of money-laundering. \n\nIn December 2017, the U.S. Department of Treasury included Karimova in a new Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act list, effectively banning all United States entities from dealing with Karimova or any of her organisations or associates.\n\nKarimova graduated from the Youth Mathematic Academy in Tashkent in 1988. During 1987 she interned at the State Committee of Uzbekistan on Statistics. From 1989 to 1994 she attended Tashkent State University, where she obtained a bachelor's degree from the International Economics department. During her second year, she worked as a translator at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Republic of Uzbekistan. In 1992, she completed a course of jewellery design in New York's Fashion Institute of Technology.\n\nBetween 1994 and 1996 she was enrolled at Institute of Economy at the Uzbekistan Academy of Science where she pursued a master's degree. During 1994-1995 she was intern-teacher at the political science department of the University of World Economy and Diplomacy in Tashkent. Afterwards, from summer 1995 until 1996, she worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan at the department for political analysis and forecast, where she was assigned to write analytical reports for the State Security Council and the Presidential Administration.\n\nThe next phase of her education took place after a few years of full-time work. Between 1998 and 2000, Karimova enrolled at the graduate level at Harvard University, where she was awarded a master's degree in regional studies. At the same time, she was enrolled at the University of World Economy and Diplomacy (UWED) in Tashkent, where in 2001, was \"awarded\" a PhD in political science. Since 2009, she has held a chair of political science at the UWED. She also holds a Bachelor of Arts in telecommunications which she received in 2006, from Tashkent University of Informational Technologies.\n\nBetween summer 1995 and autumn 1997, she was Adviser to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan. During this time she helped on with organizing the Tashkent International Conference \"Central Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone\" (CANWFZ).\n\nIn 1998 and from 2000 to 2003, Karimova served as counselor at Uzbekistan’s Mission to the United Nations in New York. From 2003 until 2005 she was minister-counselor at the Uzbek embassy in Moscow, and served as adviser to the minister of foreign affairs from 2005 to 2008. In February 2008, she was appointed deputy foreign minister for international cooperation in cultural and humanitarian affairs. In September of the same year, she was named Permanent Representative of Uzbekistan to the United Nations and other international organizations in Geneva and took up the post in December 2008. In January 2010, she was named Uzbek Ambassador to Spain. She is a member of the Cercle Diplomatique de Genève.\n\nIn 2012, Karimova was honoured with the \"Silk Road and Humanitarian Cooperation\" Award of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.\n\nAccording to US diplomats in Uzbekistan, Karimova \"bullied her way into gaining a slice of virtually every lucrative business\" in the country and is viewed as a \"robber baron\".\n\nKarimova was believed to control Uzdunrobita, Uzbekistan's national mobile telephone network, as well as the country's healthcare, and media sectors. However, since June 2007 Uzdunrobita has been totally owned by Mobile TeleSystems OJSC (\"MTS\" NYSE: MBT), the largest mobile phone operator in Russia and the CIS. December 2009, the Swiss magazine \"Bilanz\" described Gulnora Karimova as one of the ten richest women in the country.\n\nIn the interview to the Swiss economic magazine Bilan, Karimova denied her involvement into mentioned cases stating: \"I have never considered the opportunities of doing business in Switzerland. ... These references are insinuations of my opponents. My name has been mentioned earlier several times in relations to companies such as Zeromax in Zug, Interspan, Oxus Gold, Wimm-Bill-Dann of Russia, Carlsberg and many others.\"\n\nIn March 2014, the Swiss Prosecutor's Office announced that it had extended a money laundering investigation to include Karimova. The probe, launched in 2012, had initially focused on four of Karimova’s allies. \n\nWorking though the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative, the U.S. Department of Justice seized $850 million in 2016 that had been \"funneled through corrupt deals\" by Karimova. Karimova is also under investigation in Uzbekistan on charges of corruption, although she denies any wrongdoing.\n\nIn 2005, Karimova established and promoted the \"Centre for Political Studies\", the first independent think tank. which focuses on scientific-applied research on present-day issues of internal and foreign policy of Uzbekistan, regional security, economic development and international cooperation. The Centre prepares informational, analytical and prognosis materials on these subjects. Today the Centre for Political Studies cooperates with more than 25 institutions worldwide. Karimova is a chief-editor of the monthly published the Information-Analytical Bulletin “Uzbekistan & Central Asia”.\n\nUnder Karimova's supervision five NGOs have been established in Uzbekistan. In 2009, two of the foundations, the \"Social Initiatives Support Fund (SISF)\" and the \"Women's Council Public Association\", organized a conference on \"Medical aspects and role of Public Organizations in breast cancer problems solutions\". In 2006, under the SISF, Karimova took on initiative of micro-credits for women farmers in rural areas of Uzbekistan.\n\nKarimova is founder and the chairperson of the social organisation called \"Forum of Culture and Arts of Uzbekistan Foundation (the Fund Forum)\". The Forum of Culture and Arts of Uzbekistan Foundation (the Fund Forum), the biggest NGO in the country was established in spring 2004 Since then, signed a number of MOU with international organisations and in 2010, received consultative status at the ECOSOC (United Nations Economic and Social Council).\nOn 24 December 2010, the International Olympic Committee honored the Fund Forum with its annual \"Sport – Inspiring Young People\" Trophy for its activities in the area of sport, education and culture among youth.\nBeyond national cultural and art promotion, the Fund also provides merit- and need-based scholarships for undergraduate and graduate levels.\n\nIn June 2010, the Fund Forum in cooperation with other foundations engaged in humanitarian aid to those affected by the events in neighbouring Kyrgyzstan.\n\nIn 2010, she initiated the organization of a charitable marathon, \"In the Name of Life\" under the of the Fund Forum, the Women's Council and the Uzbekistan National Breast Cancer Association. 100,000 people across the Uzbekistan have joined the marathon since its launch. In 2012, Karimova is reported to donated over 25 million sum to the National Breast Cancer Association to purchase cancer medication during the marathon. In 2013, the race attracted 7,000 runners.\n\nIn April 2012, Karimova announced that she had initiated the establishment of a new NGO, the \"Forum of Socially Responsible Citizens of Uzbekistan\", which focuses on support of Uzbek citizens' social initiatives.\n\nIn 2004, on her initiative was created \"YangiAvlod\" Festival which supports children in arts disciplines. Also in 2009, the news have spread internationally that two of the world's most famous football strikers Cameroonian Samuel Eto'o and Portuguese Cristiano Ronaldo agreed to support Gulnara Karimova's new initiative launching a children's project. Both of the players evidently have signed Memorandums of cooperation with the Fund Forum.\n\nAnother project of Karimova, the Kelajak Ovozi Talented Youth Contest, has reportedly been attended by 388,000 young people in Uzbekistan since 2005, with projects and ideas ranging from IT, through architecture and design, to social innovations and poetry.\n\nIn 2006, Karimova released her first music video singing a song called \"Unutma Meni\" (Don't Forget Me) under the stage name \"Googoosha\", apparently her father′s nickname for her. She also performed in a later music video, singing a duet of \"Besame Mucho\" with Julio Iglesias.\n\nIn December 2012, Googoosha released a duet with French actor Gérard Depardieu.<ref name=\"AFP.2012/dec/5\"></ref> During his visit to Uzbekistan, the French actor agreed to star in an Uzbek film. Gulnara Karimova wrote a screenplay for \"The Theft of the White Cocoon,\" a story about the origin of the famed Central Asian silk, and set in the 5th and 6th centuries.<ref name=\"Telegraph.2012/aug/11\"></ref>\n\nGoogoosha's first single \"Round Run\" was released in April 2012, with various remixes by DJ White Shadow, Razor N Guido of USA and Max Fadeev of Russia. In June 2012 Karimova released her self-titled debut album in the US and other countries on iTunes. The album was also expected to be released in Asia, Russia and a number of other European countries. However, early reviews by critics have panned the debut album thus indefinitely halting the release in those markets.\n\nIn March 2009, Karimova presented her own special jewellery collection \"GULI for Chopard\", designed for renowned Swiss company Chopard. Reportedly her royalty for design from sales of the collection will benefit the \"Yangi Avlod\" (New Generation) Children's Festival. As of June 2016, the Children's Festival has yet to receive any monetary proceeds from the sales.\n\nIn September 2010, Karimova presented her fashion line \"Guli\" featuring Uzbek fabrics and designs based on the traditional Uzbek long coat, at New York′s Fashion Week.\n\nIn September 2011, Karimova′s planned spring 2012 fashion show at New York’s Fashion Week was cancelled after Human Rights Watch and other organizations had drawn attention to her connection to her father’s government and its record on torture, and child and forced labour. According to Human Rights Watch, up to two million Uzbek children are forced to leave school each year for two months to pick cottona fabric woven throughout Karimova’s designs. However the fashion show was eventually held in New York, with the location changed to Cipriani.\n\nIn Uzbekistan, Karimova also hosts Style.uz Art Week featuring catwalk shows of international labels such as Cavalli, Scervino and Chopard. Art Week also includes Theatre.uz International Theatre Festival, Golden Guepard Tashkent International Film Forum, Biennale and Photobiennale exhibitions as well as master-classes, round tables, concerts and charity events.\n\nGulnara Karimova presented her first fragrances, \"Victorious\" for men and \"Mysterieuse\" for women, on 8 October, as part of Style.Uz Art Week 2012. The fragrances were created by French perfumer Bertrand Duchaufour. Halit Ergenç became a face of \"Victorious\" for men.\n\nIn May 2010, Karimova was at the center of a scandal surrounding her attendance of the annual \"Cinema against AIDS\" gala fundraising event organised by amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research during the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nAmfAR faced criticism from NGOs such as Reporters without Borders, with claims that it would be hypocritical for AmfAR to accept the attendance of Karimova given her country’s refusal to take AIDS treatment seriously. Just months before the Cinema Against AIDS dinner, a 27-year-old AIDS activist, Maksim Popov, had been sentenced by an Uzbek court to seven years in prison for distributing information to stop the spread of HIV-AIDS. The Uzbek court deemed the information to be against society’s moral standards.\n\nIn 1991, she married Mansur Maqsudi, an American businessman of Afghanistan Tajik origin. They have two children, a son, Islam Karimov Jr., born in 1992 and a daughter, Iman Karimova, born in 1998. When the marriage started to crumble in July 2001, Karimova took the two children and left the United States for Uzbekistan. An Uzbek judge granted her a divorce, while a US court granted one to Maqsudi. When Karimova refused to accede to the US court ruling awarding custody of the two children to Maqsudi, an international arrest warrant in her name was filed with Interpol. In return, Maqsudi faced arrest in Uzbekistan, and some of his relatives were arrested and imprisoned. Others were driven to the Uzbek-Afghan border and released in Afghan territory, and Maqsudi had his business assets in Uzbekistan, particularly his interest in a joint-venture with Coca-Cola, taken away. According to \"The Guardian\", as part of her divorce settlement, Karimova kept $4.5 million worth of jewellery and business interests worth approximately $60 million.<ref name=\"Guardian2006/aug/11\"></ref> On 9 July 2008, custody of the two children was fully given to Karimova, by a Consent Order signed by Judge Deanne M. Wilson (Superior Court of the State of New Jersey).\n\nIn 2003, when Sodiq Safoyev was the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan, rumours about his marriage to Karimova surfaced in local and international media. Safoyev, a career diplomat and a divorcee as of 2001, was hinted to have been picked by the President Islam Karimov as his possible replacement, hence the marriage to his daughter. However, the allegations were denied by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the BBC, which published the story, was accused by First Deputy Minister Vladimir Norov of intruding into the personal lives of Safoyev and Karimova.\n\nIt has been reported by the BBC, based on a letter and a voice recording from Karimova (received in March and August 2014, respectively), that she is currently under house arrest.\n\nOn 22 November 2016, a Central Asian news portal Centre1 claimed that Karimova died on 5 November 2016, after being poisoned and was buried in an unmarked grave in the Minor cemetery in Tashkent. According to RIA Novosti, sources close to the family disputed the claim that she was dead but did not provide any proof as to her current status or whereabouts.\n\nIn December 2016, Karimova's son, Islam Karimov Junior, called for his mother's whereabouts to be revealed by Uzbekistan. He revealed that she was being kept against her will \"without any even basic human rights that every person deserves on this earth\". He explained that living in London, he cannot go back to Uzbekistan from fears that he will not be allowed to return, which was also the reason why he did not attend the funeral of his grandfather, who was initially responsible for putting Karimova under house-arrest.\n\nIn January 2017, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Karimova was questioned by Swiss prosecutors in December, 2016, regarding accusations of money-laundering. At the time she was being kept under house arrest. In 2015, an investigation by the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project reported that Karimova had taken over US$1 billion in bribes from Scandinavian and Russian telecom companies wanting involvement in the Uzbek market. In 2016, the U.S. Department of Justice seized $850 million that was funneled through corrupt deals by Karimova. Karimova is also under investigation in Uzbekistan on charges of corruption, although she denies any wrongdoing. \n\nOn 28 July 2017, the Uzbek Prosecutor-General's Office released a statement saying that she was in custody following a 2015 conviction and faces additional charges in an ongoing investigation, marking the first time authorities have revealed details about her. The statement also said she was a member of an organised criminal group that controlled assets worth more than $1.3 billion in 12 countries, including properties in London worth £22.9 million and hotels in Dubai worth $67.4 million. She was also alleged to have acquired $595 million worth of assets and received $869.3 million in kickbacks that were paid into offshore accounts. In 2017 Karimova was sentenced to 10 years in jail for fraud and money laundering but that was commuted in 2018 to five-year house arrest. In March 2019 she was sent to prison for allegedly violating the terms of her house arrest.\n"}
{"id": "1898799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898799", "title": "MVP Baseball 2005", "text": "MVP Baseball 2005\n\nMVP Baseball 2005 is a baseball video game developed and published by Electronic Arts. It features then-Boston Red Sox left fielder Manny Ramirez on its cover. The game features full Major League Baseball, Minor League Baseball, and Major League Baseball Players Association licenses. It holds the 98th spot on IGN's reader's choice top 100 games ever as of 2006. As with previous versions of the game, the announcers are Duane Kuiper and Mike Krukow, real-life announcers for the San Francisco Giants.\n\nA PlayStation Portable version of the game, titled just MVP Baseball, was later released in May 2005.\n\nMVP Baseball 2005 includes all 30 official Major League Baseball teams, stadiums, and all 30 unique dynasties, as well as the more than 1,000 individual players that populate their respective teams. A notable exclusion is Barry Bonds, who does not appear in the game due to his withdrawal from the MLBPA's licensing agreement. His \"replacement\" is a fictional player named Jon Dowd. Dowd bears no resemblance in appearance to Bonds, but his skills mimic those of Bonds. Like its predecessor \"MVP Baseball 2004\", this game does not include Kevin Millar, who does not appear in the game because he is not a member of the MLBPA. His \"replacement\" is a fictional player named Anthony Friese. The game also includes authentic minor league teams and actual minor league players by including double-A and triple-A-level farm teams. 2005's installment includes ballclubs from the High Single-A ranks as well, giving each MLB team three levels of minor league farm clubs. 2 legends teams, 63 legendary players, 15 classic stadiums, 5 fantasy parks, and more than 100 retro uniforms round out the list of unlockable features. Rosters are current as of January 12, 2005, and the game included the then-new Washington Nationals, along with their then temporary home, RFK Stadium. At the time, new rosters could be downloaded to the Xbox and PS2 versions by accessing their online play menus.\n\nMVP Baseball 2005 includes an exhibition mode, a manager's mode, two different franchise modes, a scenario editor, and a handful of baseball-themed practice games. The exhibition mode lets the player quickly set up a game against another team, and both pick a starting pitcher and adjust the lineup, if needed. The manager mode is simulated based on the choices the players make before the opening pitch. The player doesn't actually see the players swing or make plays. Instead, the player picks from a list of managerial choices, and the outcome of each play is printed onscreen in a running box score. The scenario editor lets players adjust 20 different variables—such as the teams involved, inning, count, who's on base, and so on—the players can set up every possible scenario that has ever occurred in baseball history.\n\nA minor glitch in Kuiper's commentary is about switch-hitters who are currently batting, claiming the batter hits better from one side, but when looking at the batter's power and/or contact stats, they actually hit better from the other side. For example, although Lance Berkman's power and contact stats are both higher batting left-handed in the game by default, Kuiper will claim that Berkman hits better batting right-handed. Another quirk is that he claims Hack Wilson set the MLB single-season runs scored record with 192 in 1930. However, he actually set the MLB single-season \"RBIs\" record with 191 in 1930. The single-A Wilmington Blue Rocks' uniforms are misspelled, with an extra L in \"Wilmington.\"\n\nBoth the dynasty and owner's modes keep track of events and statistics. Injuries and suspensions occur throughout the season, requiring the players to adjust lineups accordingly. Other teams will offer trades, and some of the players' own players will ask to be traded. On the statistics side, the game keeps a running tally of the current and previous season statistics in 64 different categories, along with 120 years' worth of league leading stats.\n\nDynasty Mode lets gamers draft and manage a team for up to 120 full seasons, including spring training games. Responsibilities include setting lineups, making trades, and shuffling players up and down through the team's three minor league farm clubs. Team chemistry, rivalries, and player moods are also variables in the dynasty mode that can be strengthened or weakened by win/loss records, player salaries, playing time, and position in the batting order or pitching rotation. The players' moods can be monitored via face icons in each player's profile. If a player is unhappy or wants to be traded, the player may send a message in MVP Inbox asking the players if they could consider their desires. The game gives the player a changing series of 1 and 3-year goals to live up to. Meeting these goals boosts managerial rating and team chemistry. Failing to do so has the opposite effect. Games can be played in real time, or chunks of the season can be simulated in one fell swoop. The dynasty mode in \"MVP Baseball 2004\" had a bug that made it impossible for computer-generated players to evolve into A-list superstars unless the players actually played 95% of the team's games. That was fixed in the 2005 release. It's now possible to give players an added stats bonus by playing the batting and pitching minigames during spring training.\n\nThe other franchise-style mode is called Owner Mode, and much like the similar mode in EA's Madden NFL games, it tacks ownership and financial responsibilities on to Dynasty Mode. Here the players can set ticket and concessions prices, hire staff, buy and sell new stadium shops, schedule promotional giveaways, and buy all sorts of stadium upgrades (such as scoreboards, additional seats, home run fireworks, and luxury boxes). The goal is to last for 30 years. There are a variety of player, team, and financial reports to look at that show team's progress on a daily and yearly basis. In Owner Mode, players may design a custom ballpark for their team. The ballpark editor lets the players pick from a set list of various locations, field shapes, and seat colors, as well as specific wall, grass, and dirt designs. It also lets players add on additional seating levels and grandstands throughout the course of the career.\n\nThe most prominent new feature in the game is the \"Hitter's Eye\" system, which turns the baseball different colors in the pitcher's hand (stays white for fastballs, red for breaking pitches, green for off-speed pitches, pink for sinkers and orange for knuckleballs) and leaves a trail as the ball flies through the air toward the plate to aid in hitting, which game developers said had been too difficult in previous versions. In addition to the Hitter's Eye, an Owner Mode feature and pitching and hitting Mini-Games were added. Other minor features include the ability for the managers to argue with the umpires at any time (automatic ejection for arguing balls and strikes) and a slow motion overhead view of the plate that can be accessed after every pitch (pitch/swing analysis) to see pitch location or the batter's timing. Games can also be rained out, forcing a player to play a doubleheader. Minor league teams from the California, Carolina, and Florida State Leagues (High A) were added to their respective teams, although most Minor League rosters are incomplete and feature developer-created replacement players. The game also supported online play, but as of 2008 the servers for the Xbox and PS2 versions are unavailable.\n\nThe soundtrack for \"MVP Baseball 2005\" includes nine songs all by different artists. The game was the first release for four of these songs, from artists ...And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead, The Bravery, Hot Hot Heat and Louis XIV. The soundtrack is widely held as one of the best in-game soundtracks of the 2000s.\n\nBy July 2006, the PlayStation 2 version of \"MVP Baseball 2005\" had sold 1 million copies and earned $29 million in the United States. \"Next Generation\" ranked it as the 55th highest-selling game launched for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in that country. Combined console sales of \"MVP Baseball\" games released in the 2000s reached 3.5 million units in the United States by July 2006.\n\nThe game was met with positive to average reception. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 87.53% and 88 out of 100 for the GameCube version; 87.10% and 87 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version; 86.96% and 86 out of 100 for the Xbox version; 84.57% and 85 out of 100 for the PC version; and 66.78% and 67 out of 100 for the PSP version.\n\nThe game was given an award for best sports video game of 2005 from \"X-Play\".\nIn May 2013 the game ranked fourth on a \"Best sports video games\" list by ESPN.\n\n\"MVP Baseball 2005\" was a finalist for \"PC Gamer US\"s \"Best Sports Game 2005\" award, which ultimately went to \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06\".\n\nAfter EA lost the license and ended the support for the game, the game's modding community continues the support and releases updated roster lists every year as also alternative leagues (e.g. MVP Caribe, MVP Mods, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "1898803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898803", "title": "List of Australian Army medical units in World War I", "text": "List of Australian Army medical units in World War I\n\nThe following is a list of Australian Army medical units in World War I.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898804", "title": "Hong Leong Bank", "text": "Hong Leong Bank\n\nHong Leong Bank Berhad () is a major public listed banking group in Malaysia.\n\nHong Leong Bank began its operations in 1905 in Kuching, Sarawak under the name of \"Kwong Lee Mortgage & Remittance Company\". The company granted loans against the security of export commodities such as pepper, rubber and other indigenous products. It also provided the services of remitting money of overseas Chinese to their families in Southeast region of China.\n\nIn the initial years, the company went through a difficult period of growth when a number of economic crises occurred. The First World War broke out in 1914 causing panic in the financial circles. A few years after hostilities ended, the post-war Recession of 1920-1921 set in. After the recession, the company opened its branch in Sibu in 1923 and three years later another branch was opened in Singapore in 1926. The year 1929 saw the start of the Great Depression that lasted until 1933. The Depression caused a sharp fall in the export earnings of commodities and many business concerns, including some banks, were in financial difficulties.\n\nKwong Lee Mortgage and Remittance Company survived all these setbacks because of its strong cash reserves and its conservative operational policy. Immediately after the Depression, on 26 October 1934, the company was converted into a public company under the name \"Kwong Lee Bank\" and shortly after, the third branch of the Bank was opened in Sarikei in 1937.\n\nThe Second World War caused a temporary disruption in the currency and banking system. After the war the immediate task was one of reconstruction and rehabilitation. In this connection, Kwong Lee Bank played an important role to revive confidence and business activities by providing financing to enable old businesses to be resumed and new ones to be set up. The aftermath of the war saw the continued expansion of the Bank, and in 1964, Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation of Singapore (OCBC Bank) under the stewardship of Tan Chin Tuan (its then Chairman and Managing Director) acquired a 52% majority stake in Kwong Lee Bank from the Lam family.\n\nIn 1973, Kwong Lee Bank opened another branch in Bintangor.\n\nIn late 1977, Yang Amat Mulia Tunku Osman Ibni Tunku Temenggong Ahmad, a member of the royal family from the State of Johor, came in as a shareholder of the bank and acquired 30% of its share capital from both OCBC Bank and the Lam family. The period subsequent to this saw a change in the direction of Kwong Lee Bank's expansion. From five banking branch offices in Sarawak (Kuching, Sibu, Sarikei, Serian and Bintangor) and one in Singapore, the bank expanded its operations to Peninsular Malaysia when it opened its first branch in Kuala Lumpur in May 1978 and this was followed by another branch in Johor Bahru during the same month. Over the next four years, a total of six branches were opened in Labis, Segamat, Bintulu, Kota Tinggi, Kota Kinabalu and Kluang and on 1 January 1982, the Head Office was relocated from Kuching to Kuala Lumpur.\n\nIn May 1982, Kwong Lee Bank Berhad was acquired by the MUI Group, a corporate group controlled by Malaysian business tycoon Tan Sri Dato Khoo Kay Peng. Exiting shareholders include OCBC Bank (which acquired a stake in the bank in 1964) and members of the Lam family (relatives and descendants of the founder Lam Ji Chiew). Kwong Lee Bank Berhad was renamed \"Malayan United Bank Berhad\" on 2 February 1983. Subsequently, it was renamed \"MUI Bank Bhd\". Under the MUI banner the bank grew from 11 branches (including Singapore) to 35 branches.\n\nOn 3 January 1994, the Hong Leong Group Malaysia acquired MUI Bank Berhad through Hong Leong Credit Berhad and renamed it as \"Hong Leong Bank Berhad\" (HLBB). The acquisition of MUI Bank Berhad by Hong Leong Group Malaysia (which is controlled by Malaysian business tycoon Quek Leng Chan) followed shortly after an aborted takeover attempt of the MUI Group by another Malaysian tycoon Tan Sri Dato Vincent Tan Chee Yioun (through his vehicle Berjaya Corporation).\n\nHLBB was listed on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange on 17 October 1994 with its total paid up capital enlarged to RM 470 million. Since then, the growth of the bank has been remarkable.\n\nThe consolidation of the banking institution to meet the requirements of Bank Negara Malaysia marks another milestone for Hong Leong Bank Berhad. The completion of the merger of Hong Leong Bank with Wah Tat Bank and Hong Leong Finance with Credit Corporation Malaysia on 1 January 2001 marks the emergence of a larger banking group.\n\nHLBB is a member of the Hong Leong Group. The group has diversified businesses in financial services, manufacturing, property and infrastructure development.\n\nOn 6 May 2011, Hong Leong Bank announced that it has completed its acquisition on EON Capital Bhd's assets and liabilities, making EON Bank part of Hong Leong Bank Group.\n\nWithin close to 8 weeks, the legal vesting was concluded where all assets and liabilities of the former EON Bank was vested into HLB. The merger creates the country’s fourth-largest bank with an asset size of more than RM140 billion with a total of 329 branches.\n\nThe bank provides banking services and financial products which include property, auto, personal loans, payment products, share financing, investment and insurance, as well as deposits and remittance to individuals and small businesses.\n\nPrincipal business activities include the provision of banking solutions such as deposit and loan services covering business current account, interest-bearing auto-sweep as well as fixed deposit, and financing options ranging from asset acquisition, working capital, and debt capital market structures, for corporate, commercial and SME client base. HLB also specialises in the provision of transaction banking solutions via cash management, trade financing and services.\n\nThese are HLB's subsidiaries in Asia region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn March 2010, HLB together with Bank of Chengdu Co., Ltd. (BOCD) formed a joint-venture company named Sichuan Jincheng Consumer Finance Ltd Co (SJCF) to start consumer finance operations in Central and Western China. HLB has a 49% stake in the joint-venture company while BOCD held the rest.\n\n\nIn February 2013, the bank had embarked on a rationalisation exercise as part of its continuing efforts to review its business and maintain competitiveness.\n\nAs part of the exercise involves transfer non-executive staffs from all over country to three centralised locations, it created dissatisfactions amongst affected employees. A picket was held at Wisma Hong Leong in November 2013. Alleged wrongful dismissal of the 27 employees for refusing to transfer has been referred to Industrial Court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898811", "title": "Hong Leong Capital", "text": "Hong Leong Capital\n\nHong Leong Capital Berhad () is an investment holding company listed on the Bursa Malaysia whereby its subsidiaries are involved in stock and share broking, acting as agent and nominee for clients, corporate advisory services, fund management, unit trusts, share financing, futures and options broking. It is part of the Hong Leong Group Malaysia.\n"}
{"id": "1898813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898813", "title": "Boswellia", "text": "Boswellia\n\nBoswellia is a genus of trees in the order Sapindales, known for its fragrant resin. The biblical incense frankincense is an extract from the resin of the tree \"Boswellia sacra\", and is now produced also from \"B. frereana\".\n\nThe four main species of \"Boswellia\", \"B. sacra\" (synonyms \"B. carteri\" and \"B. bhaw-dajiana\"), \"B. frereana\", \"B. papyrifera\", and \"B. serrata\", produce true frankincense, and each type of resin is available in various grades. The grades depend on the time of harvesting, and the resin is hand sorted for quality.\n\n\"Boswellia\" species are moderate-sized flowering plants, including both trees and shrubs, and are native to tropical regions of Africa and Asia. The distributions of the species are primarily associated with the tropics. The greatest diversity of species presently is in Africa and India.\n\nThe plants are dioecious. The flowers may have four or five faintly connate but imbricate sepals with an equal number of distinct, imbricate petals. Also, the stamens, that may contain nectar discs, have distinct glabrous filaments that occur in one or two whorls and in numbers equaling or twice the number of petals; the tricolporate pollen is contained within two locules of the anthers that open longitudinally along slits. The gynoecium contains three to five connate carpels, one style, and one stigma that is head-like to lobed. Each locule of the superior ovary has two ovules with axile placentation that are anatropous to campylotropous. The one- to five-pitted fruit is a drupe that opens at maturity. The endosperm is usually lacking in the embryo.\n\nThe species name honors Scottish botanist John Boswell, 1710 - 1780 (incidentally uncle of writer James Boswell).\n\nIn 1998, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) warned that one of the primary frankincense species, \"Boswellia sacra\", is \"near threatened\". Frankincense trees are not covered by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, but experts argue that \"Boswellia\" species meet the criteria for protection. In a 2006 study, an ecologist at Wageningen University & Research claimed that, by the late-1990s, \"Boswellia papyrifera\" trees in Eritrea were becoming hard to find. In 2019, a new paper predicted a 50% reduction in \"Boswellia papyrifera\" within the next two decades. This species, found mainly in Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Sudan, accounts for about two-thirds of global frankincense production. The paper warns that all \"Boswellia\" species are threatened by habitat loss and overexploitation. Most \"Boswellia\" grow in harsh, arid regions beset by poverty and conflict. Harvesting and selling the tree's resin is one of the only sources of income for the inhabitants, resulting in overtapping.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898816", "title": "Guoco Group", "text": "Guoco Group\n\nGuoco Group Limited (, ) is an investment holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries and associated companies include investment and treasury management, property development and investment, stock and commodity broking, insurance, investment advisory, fund management as well as banking and finance, operating principally in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and the mainland of the PRC, etc. It is part of the Hong Leong Group Malaysia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898817", "title": "Sam Rivers (bassist)", "text": "Sam Rivers (bassist)\n\nSamuel Robert Rivers (born September 2, 1977, Jacksonville, Florida) is the bassist and backing vocalist of the band Limp Bizkit, and one of its founding members.\n\nRivers musical career started fairly early on, with him playing the tuba in a band in Arlington Middle School. He got into music initially because of John Otto, who played jazz-style drums.\n\nMany have said that Otto is a cousin of Rivers, but during a documentary that was recorded of the band recording their second album, Rivers admits that they initially thought they were cousins but realised neither parents were related.\n\nHe attended Bishop Kenny High School. He played guitar before he played bass, but switched at the suggestion of his music teacher.\n\nRivers first met Fred Durst while working at a Chick-fil-A in a mall in Jacksonville. The two started talking, and found they shared several interests, including skateboarding and music. They decided to get together for a jam session. Rivers was becoming an accomplished bass guitarist, and Durst was to be a vocalist. Together with several other people they formed a short-lived band called Malachi Sage. Rivers' talents on guitar would later come into play in Limp Bizkit's Results May Vary album, the only album not featuring longtime guitarist Wes Borland, with Rivers playing both guitar and bass on select songs such as \"Creamer\" and \"Lonely World\".\n\nWhen the band did not work out, the two decided to try again, and this time Otto came into the picture to be the drummer at the suggestion of Rivers. In 1994, the three formed Limp Bizkit. Later on guitarist Wes Borland came into the fold, as well as DJ Lethal, in 1996. Rivers was the youngest member of the band. When their first album \"Three Dollar Bill, Yall\" was released, he was 19 years old.\n\nIn 2015, Rivers reportedly left Limp Bizkit following a diagnosis of degenerative disc disease. However, Rivers revealed in 2020 his departure from Limp Bizkit was due to liver disease caused by excessive drinking. Rivers subsequently received a liver transplant. In absentia, live bass duties were covered by Samuel Gerhard Mpungu and Tsuzumi Okai.\n\nHe was voted Best Bass Player at the 2000 Gibson Awards.\n\nAfter Limp Bizkit went on hiatus, Rivers became a producer for local bands in Jacksonville. He produced the debut albums by Burn Season and The Embraced. Most recently, Rivers has been producing for the Orlando-based band Indorphine. Aside from producing their new studio material, Rivers got them booked as the opening act for a Mushroomhead/SOiL concert.\n\nIn early 2009, Rivers reunited with Limp Bizkit for tours and their sixth studio album, \"Gold Cobra\" released in 2011.\n\nRivers is now pursuing another project with ex Puddle of Mudd bassist Damien Starkey in a band called Sleepkillers, along with Adam Latiff and Saliva vocalist Bobby Amaru, and released their self titled debut album on March 1, 2019.\n\nHis influences include bands such as Black Sabbath and Megadeth. Rivers cites Jeff Ament from Pearl Jam as a big influence on his playing.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Rivers married Kinter Atkins. They divorced due to personal issues. Currently Rivers is in a relationship with porn actress Kayla Paige.\n\nRivers was originally endorsed by Ibanez, and one of his basses was a customized BTB 5-string, but currently uses custom made Warwick basses, with LEDs in the fretboard. Rivers has also been seen using Wal Basses since 2005, mainly in the studio and uses Ampeg and Warwick amps.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898818", "title": "Fusen Ketsugi", "text": "Fusen Ketsugi\n\nThe , also known as Fusen Ketsugi, is a issued by the House of Representatives of Japan on June 9, 1995:\n\nThe original draft of the resolution that was submitted by Japan Socialist Party contained stronger expressions of apology. However, it was weakened by Liberal Democratic Party with whom Japan Socialist Party formed a coalition cabinet.\n\nOut of 502 representatives, 251 participated in the final vote on the revised resolution, and 230 of them supported the resolution; 241 representatives abstained from voting; 70 absentees belonged in one of the three parties in the coalition cabinet that sponsored the resolution (Japan Socialist Party, Liberal Democratic Party, and New Party Sakigake).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898821", "title": "Captain Singleton", "text": "Captain Singleton\n\nThe Life, Adventures and Piracies of the Famous Captain Singleton is a novel by Daniel Defoe, originally published in 1720. It has been re-published multiple times since, some of which times were in 1840 1927, 1972 and 2008. \"Captain Singleton\" is believed to have been partly inspired by the exploits of the English pirate Henry Every, who operated in the late 17th century.\n\nThe narrative describes the life of the Englishman, Singleton, stolen from a well-to-do family as a child and raised by Gypsies, eventually making his way to sea. The former half of the book concerns Singleton's crossing of Africa, the latter half concerning his life as a pirate in the Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea. Defoe's description of piracy focuses for the most part on matters of economics and logistics, and Singleton's pirate behaves more like a merchant adventurer, perhaps Defoe's comment on the mercantilism of his day.\n\n\n\n\"The Life, Adventures, and Pyracies, of the Famous Captain Singleton (1720)\" covers both land and sea in one volume, in two neatly composed halves. The first half of the novel includes a remarkable overland trek across Africa after the characters are stranded in Madagascar, and the second half is almost entirely at sea, involving piratical heists in the East Indies. Eventually, Captain Bob and his close friend William Walters return to England with their spoils via Venice, disguised as Armenians.'\n\nAt the beginning of the novel, Singleton, as a young boy, is kidnapped and sold to a gypsy by a beggar-woman. He is raised as a ward of a parish, and sent to sea at age twelve. Soon he is captured by Turkish pirates, rescued by sailors from Portugal, and after a two-year stay in that country, sails for the East Indies. By his own account, young Singleton is a rogue who steals from the ship's captain and harbors the desire to kill his master. Nearly hanged for his part in an attempted mutiny, Singleton is set ashore with four companions on the coast of Madagascar. A score of other sailors from the ship join them and the ensuing narrative relates their efforts to survive on the island. The sailors find and rebuild an abandoned boat and eventually decide to pursue a journey through Africa. In their encounters with African natives, the Europeans prove resourceful but brutal.\n\nDuring the hazardous trip Singleton becomes the leader of the group by virtue of his fearlessness and ingenuity. He is a cold pragmatist whose lack of compassion is exceeded only by his talent for survival. When they find a wounded native, Singleton makes a decision based purely on expediency. Singleton makes the decision, after considering to let the native die, that they might find the man useful to them - as is written \"I found the man had some respect showed him, it presently occurred to my thoughts that we might bring him to be useful to us, and perhaps make him a kind of commander over them\", they than take to call the native 'prince'. During the arduous march through lands teeming with leopards, elephants, crocodiles, and snakes, the travellers avoid catastrophe because of their modern weaponry and their European belief in reason rather than in magic. The marchers meet an English merchant who has been living with the natives and who persuades Singleton and his companions to stop awhile in order to dig for gold. Having loaded themselves down with gold and elephant tusks, the adventurers finally reach a Dutch settlement, where they divide the spoils and immediately go their separate ways.\n\nOnce Singleton has spent his fortune in England, he sets out again, this time for the West Indies where, by his boastful admission, he quickly takes to piracy. Singleton's abilities bring him high command, although his piratical activities encourage the growth of a callousness so pervasive that at times it leads to cruelty. He denies that his men have committed certain atrocities, but calmly admits that \"more was done than it is fit to speak of here\" (p. 188). In this portion of the novel events pile up rapidly, and there are chases and sea battles in which Singleton proves himself an able, courageous, and imaginative leader. From the Indies the scene shifts to the East African coast and Madagascar where the pirates continue to plunder and sail restlessly in search of new conquests. Defoe draws a portrait of men whose love of gold is less urgent than their need for adventure. This lust for novelty takes Singleton and his men into the Pacific as far as the Philippines, before they trace their way back to the Indian Ocean and Ceylon.\n\nFriend William, a Quaker surgeon, becomes the center of the narrative as he outwits a Ceylonese King and rescues a Dutch slave. William displays further resourcefulness by succeeding in trade negotiations with English merchants in India. He serves Singleton loyally and bravely as a kind of man Friday: he is, moreover, a Christian humanist and healer who ultimately persuades his captain that a life of piracy leads nowhere. When Singleton contemplates suicide in the throes of repentance, William convinces him that the idea of taking one's life is the \"Devil's Notion\" (p. 332) and therefore must be ignored.\n\nWhen they return to England, they make the decision to stay together for the rest of their lives. Singleton marries William's sister, a widow, and the story ends rapidly on a note of domestic peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898825", "title": "Fister", "text": "Fister\n\nFister is a village in Hjelmeland municipality in Rogaland county, Norway. The village is a small community approximately 600 inhabitants, and is located on the mainland, along the Fisterfjorden, a branch off the main Boknafjorden. The village lies about northwest of the village of Årdal and about southwest of the municipal centre of Hjelmelandsvågen.\n\nFister has the highest average temperature in Norway. It is visited by many tourists each year and is famous for the beautiful nature and fishing in the fjords.\n\nThis small village is well known for its warm, inviting atmosphere and friendly community. It has an elementary school, a locally owned store (Joker Fister), a variety of local food options, small businesses, vibrant nature and an abundance of hiking options.\n\nThe local community council, Fister bygdaråd, serves as an informal communication channel across the community where people can reach each other with questions, follow events and keep up to date on recent developments locally. It's an open group where anyone are welcome to join.\n\nThe village of Fister was the administrative centre of the municipality of Fister which existed from 1884 (when the old municipality of Hjelmeland og Fister was split) until 1965 (when Fister was dissolved and merged into the municipalities of Hjelmeland and Finnøy).\n\nFister Church is located in the village. It was built in 1867 using plans drawn by the architect, Hans Linstow, who designed several churches in Norway, in addition to the Royal Palace, Oslo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898832", "title": "Why We Fight (2005 film)", "text": "Why We Fight (2005 film)\n\nWhy We Fight is a 2005 documentary film about the military–industrial complex directed by Eugene Jarecki. The title refers to the World War II-era eponymous propaganda movies commissioned by the U.S. Government to justify their decision to enter the war against the Axis Powers.\n\n\"Why We Fight\" was first screened at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival on January 17, 2005, exactly forty-four years after President Dwight D. Eisenhower's . Although it won the Grand Jury Prize for Documentary, it received a limited public cinema release on January 22, 2006, and then was released on DVD on June 27, 2006, by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. The documentary also won one of the 2006 Grimme Awards in the competition \"Information & Culture\"; the prize is one of Germany's most prestigious for television productions and a Peabody Award in 2006.\n\n\"Why We Fight\" describes the rise and maintenance of the United States military–industrial complex and its 50-year involvement with the wars led by the United States to date, especially its 2003 invasion of Iraq. The documentary asserts that in every decade since World War II, the American public was misled so that the government (incumbent Administration) could take them to war and fuel the military-industrial economy maintaining American political dominance in the world. Interviewed about this matter are politician John McCain, political scientist and former CIA analyst Chalmers Johnson, politician Richard Perle, neoconservative commentator William Kristol, writer Gore Vidal, and public policy expert Joseph Cirincione.\n\n\"Why We Fight\" documents the consequences of said foreign policy with the stories of a Vietnam War veteran whose son was killed in the September 11, 2001 attacks, and who then asked the military to write the name of his dead son on any bomb to be dropped in Iraq; a 23-year-old New Yorker who enlists in the United States Army because he was poor and in debt, his decision impelled by his mother's death; and a military explosives scientist (Anh Duong) who arrived in the U.S. as a refugee child from Vietnam in 1975.\n\nThe producer's list included \"more than a dozen organizations, from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation to the United Kingdom's BBC, Estonia's ETV and numerous European broadcasters\" but no U.S. names. The Sundance Institute did, however, provide completion funding. Writer and director Jarecki said \"serious examination of Eisenhower and the aftermath of his speech proved 'too radical' for potential American funders for his film\" and except for Sundance, he \"could not raise a dollar in the U.S.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898834", "title": "Blue Cow Mountain", "text": "Blue Cow Mountain\n\nBlue Cow is a ski resort that is part of Perisher located in the Snowy Mountains of New South Wales, Australia, within the Snowy Monaro Regional Council. The resort is situated within the Kosciuszko National Park and is administered by the NSW National Parks & Wildlife Service. During winter months, the only access to the village is via the Skitube underground railway. In summer, access is via off-road only. Blue Cow is one of the four resort bases within Perisher, Australia's largest ski resort.\n\nAlso known as the Blue Cow Mountain, Mount Blue Cow or The Blue Cow, the mountain lies within the Main Range of Snowy Mountains, part of the Great Dividing Range. Blue Cow Mountain has an elevation of above sea level.\n\nThe last establishment of a major skifield in New South Wales came with the development of Mount Blue Cow in the 1980s. In 1987 the Skitube Alpine Railway opened to deliver skiers from Bullocks Flat, on the Alpine Way, to Perisher Valley and to Blue Cow, which also opened in 1987. The operators of Blue Cow purchased Guthega in 1991, and the new combined resort later merged with Perisher-Smiggins to become the largest ski resort in the Southern Hemisphere. In 2009 Perisher had 48 lifts covering and four village base areas: Perisher Valley, Blue Cow, Smiggin Holes and Guthega.\n\nBlue Cow has nine ski lifts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898837", "title": "Rodney Carrington", "text": "Rodney Carrington\n\nRodney Scott Carrington (born October 19, 1968) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, and country music artist. He has released six major-label studio albums and a greatest-hits package, on Mercury Records and Capitol Records. His comedy act typically combines stand-up comedy and original songs. Most of his songs are recorded in a neotraditional country style. Carrington has also starred in the sitcom \"Rodney\" and in the 2008 film \"Beer for My Horses\".\n\nRodney Carrington lived in Longview, Texas from 1968 to 1990. He worked as a comedian in local venues, gaining exposure through radio programs such as \"The Bob and Tom Show\".\n\nCarrington's first album, \"Hangin' with Rodney\", was released in 1998 via Mercury Records Nashville. This album, consisting of both stand-up comedy and original songs, contained the non-charting single \"Letter to My Penis\" and peaked at No. 73 on Top Country Albums.\n\nHe moved to Capitol Nashville for his next album, 2000's \"Morning Wood\". It was his first Top 20 album, first Gold-certified recording, and it brought him to the singles charts for the first time with \"More of a Man\", which reached No. 71 on Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs). After it came the live album \"Live: C'mon Laugh You Bastards\", which did not chart. Carrington's third release for Capitol was 2003's \"Nut Sack\". It mostly consisted of studio-recorded comedy songs and only featured five stand-up sketches. It included the single \"Don't Look Now\" which reached No. 60. \n\nA \"Greatest Hits\" package followed in 2004. This album comprised selections from his Capitol recordings on two discs: stand-up routines on one disc, and songs on the other. It also included two previously unreleased songs: \"Put Your Clothes Back On\" and his first non-comedy song, \"Things We Didn't Know.\" This compilation album reached No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" Top Comedy Albums chart and No. 11 on the \"Billboard\" Top Country albums chart, becoming Carrington's first Platinum-certified recording.\n\nAlso in 2004, Carrington made his acting debut in \"Rodney\", a sitcom based largely on his own life which aired on ABC for two seasons. He released \"King of the Mountains\" in 2007, and in 2008 he appeared in the film \"Beer for My Horses\".\n\n\"King of the Mountains\" contains his second serious song, \"Angel Friend\", a tribute to his best friend Barry Martin, who died suddenly in 2003.\n\nCarrington released his sixth studio album \"El Niño Loco\" in 2009. The album was his final release for Capitol Records. Unlike his previous releases, \"El Niño Loco\" does not feature any stand-up sketches. It also contains his third non-comedy song \"Funny Man\".\n\nLater in 2009, Carrington released his first Christmas album, \"Make It Christmas\". The first single from the album, \"Camouflage and Christmas Lights\" became his first Top 40 country hit in December 2009.\n\nCarrington has released two more comedy albums on the independent label Laughter's Good Records: \"Laughter's Good\" (2014) and \"Here Comes the Truth\" (2017). He continues to tour.\n\nCarrington has a home in south Tulsa, where his 2004–2006 sitcom was set. He was previously married to Teri and has three sons with her.\n\n\nreleased on Intersound in 1995 on cassette and CD, before his Mercury album\n\n"}
{"id": "1898838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898838", "title": "Botryoidal", "text": "Botryoidal\n\nA botryoidal texture or mineral habit is one in which the mineral has a globular external form resembling a \"bunch of grapes\" (\"botrys\" in ancient Greek). This is a common form for many minerals, particularly hematite, the classically recognized shape. It is also a common form of goethite, smithsonite, fluorite and malachite. This includes chrysocolla.\n\nEach sphere (grape) in a botryoidal mineral is smaller than that of a reniform mineral, and much smaller than that of a mamillary mineral. Botryoidal minerals form when many nearby nuclei, specks of sand, dust, or other particles, are present. Acicular or fibrous crystals grow radially around the nuclei at the same rate, appearing as spheres. Eventually, these spheres abut or overlap with those that are nearby. These nearby spheres are then fused together to form the botryoidal cluster.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898841", "title": "List of monarchs of Powys", "text": "List of monarchs of Powys\n\nThe kingdom of Powys covered the eastern part of central Wales. Regions included Builth and Gwerthrynion. It is important to note it was occupied by the Irish for a few years by Banadl (usually given as 441-447 AD), and was united with Gwynedd in 854 upon the death of Cyngen ap Cadell by his nephew Rhodri.\n\n\nKing Rhodri the Great of Gwynedd was the son of Merfyn Frych and Cyngen ap Cadell's sister, Nest. He inherited the Kingdom on his uncle's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898846", "title": "Lynching of Mack Charles Parker", "text": "Lynching of Mack Charles Parker\n\nMack Charles Parker (1936 – April 24, 1959) was an African-American victim of lynching in the United States. He had been accused of raping a pregnant white woman in northern Pearl River County, Mississippi. Three days before he was to stand trial, Parker was kidnapped from his jail cell in the Pearl River County Courthouse by a mob, beaten and shot. His body was found in the Pearl River, 20 miles west of Poplarville, 10 days later. Following an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the men who killed him were released. Despite confessions, no one was ever indicted for the killing. Historian Howard Smead called the killing the \"last classic lynching in America.\"\n\nParker was arrested for the February 23, 1959, rape and kidnapping of June Walters, a pregnant white woman, in Pearl River County, Mississippi. Walters reported that the crime occurred on a dirt logging road called Black Creek Ford Road, off U. S. Route 11, approximately seven miles south of Lumberton, Mississippi, where she and her child were waiting alone in a car while her husband, Jimmy sought help for repairs. Parker vehemently denied having raped anyone, and statements from his supporters after his death suggested that the rape accusations may have been fabricated by the alleged victim as a means of concealing an ongoing consensual affair with a local white man.\n\nAccording to reports published in the New Orleans \"Times-Picayune\" and the Jackson \"Clarion-Ledger\", Parker and four friends, Norman Malachy, David Alfred, Curt Underwood and Tommy Grant were returning to Lumberton from Poplarville. The five men had been to Slim’s, an illegal bar which was operated under the protection of the Poplarville City Police. It was located in the black section of Poplarville, and was known for selling white lightning moonshine. As the five neared Lumberton, Parker and his four companions spotted a Dodge sedan broken down on the side of the road. Assuming the car was abandoned, they stopped. Parker got out and shone a flashlight into the car. Upon recognizing a white woman in the car, Parker returned to his brother's Chevy sedan and left. As they left the scene, Parker allegedly turned to his friends and said, “Why don’t we stop and get some o’ that white stuff?” Telling him he was crazy, the four men told Parker to take them home. According to local law enforcement officials, before the woman’s husband could return to the disabled car, Parker allegedly returned, kidnapped June Walters and her four-year-old daughter, Debbie, at gunpoint and took them to Black Creek Ford Road, where he raped Walters. Curt Underwood, Parker's brother-in-law, who was there that night, disputed the version of events.\nThe woman did not identify her alleged attacker by name or detailed description beyond sex, race and approximate age. After an intensive manhunt, Lumberton police were informed by David Alfred’s father, a local Baptist minister, that Parker was the perpetrator. Parker was arrested at approximately 10 a.m. on February 24 at his Lumberton home by Lumberton City Marshal Ham Slade. Parker was beaten by Slade and his deputies, to the horror of his mother, Mrs. Eliza Parker. Parker’s screams could be heard several houses away.\n\nParker vehemently denied having raped anyone. In a line-up at the Lumberton City Jail, the victim identified Parker. A check of the tire tracks left by the perpetrator’s car indicated they were similar to those of Parker’s Chevrolet, but a positive identification could not be made. A check of fingerprints failed to implicate Parker. Soon after his arrest, and for his own protection, Lumberton Police had the Mississippi Highway Patrol transfer Parker to the Hinds County Jail in Jackson. While in the Hinds County Jail, Parker was subjected to several lie detector tests. All of the lie detector tests given Parker proved to be inconclusive or that he was telling the truth. In addition, no handgun was ever found by police, nor was one ever connected to Mack Charles Parker.\n\nOn April 13, Parker was indicted by a Pearl River County grand jury, on one count of rape and two counts of kidnapping. Two days later, Parker was returned to Pearl River County to appear before Judge Sebe Dale, Sr., on April 17. Being represented by attorney and civil rights activist, R. Jess Brown of Vicksburg, Parker pleaded not guilty to each charge. Judge Dale set the trial date for April 27, and Parker was returned to his cell at the Pearl River County Courthouse. The involvement of Brown in the case led to fear he might be freed thanks to civil rights claims such as the absence of any Black in the jury.\n\nAccording to the FBI report on the case, sometime around 12.15 a.m. on April 25, a vigilante mob of eight to ten hooded and masked men, wearing gloves, entered the courthouse.\n\nSupposedly, they were let into the locked jail area by a deputy sheriff, Jewell Alford, who was with them. As Alford unlocked the door, eight to ten from the mob entered Parker’s cell. He begged for help from other prisoners, but the mob threatened them with guns. A life and death struggle soon ensued as Parker tried to escape and he was beaten with clubs by the mob. As the mob dragged Parker out of the courthouse, and down its concrete steps, he was bleeding profusely. He pleaded to be able to walk instead of being dragged. Blood spurted from his wounds, leaving bloody hand prints and pools of blood along the route out of the courthouse.\n\nThe mob had two cars waiting outside for their escape. Parker was stuffed into the back seat of one and the two cars sped off west toward Bogalusa, Louisiana on Mississippi Highway 26. The car with Parker inside continued west on Mississippi Highway 26 until it reached the Mississippi-Louisiana border at the Pearl River Bridge, approximately 20 miles west of Poplarville.\n\nAccording to the FBI, the mob with Parker in the car drove into Louisiana, where they waited to make sure the road was traffic-free. Once they were assured they were in the clear, Parker was driven to the center of the bridge. He was then pulled from the car and shot twice in the chest from a range of approximately six inches. Parker died within seconds.\n\nThe original plan had been to castrate Parker and hang him from the superstructure of the Pearl River Bridge; however, with Parker now dead, the mob decided to abandon its plan in fear of being discovered. They proceeded to weight his body down with logging chains which were produced from the trunk of one of the cars. Once the chains were secured around Parker’s body, it was tossed over the concrete railings of the bridge into the rain-swollen waters of the Pearl River below.\n\nUpon learning of the events in the early morning hours of April 25, Pearl River County Sheriff, Osborn Moody, informed the Mississippi Highway Patrol, who then urged him to contact the FBI. That same morning, Moody obtained a \"John Doe\" warrant for the kidnapping of Mack Charles Parker.\n\nOn May 4, Parker's bloated and decomposing body was found floating in the waters of the Pearl River two and one-half miles south of the Pearl River Bridge at Bogalusa.\n\nAlmost immediately, 60 agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation descended upon the town of Poplarville. In the two weeks following Parker’s death, the FBI questioned hundreds of potential witnesses and suspects. Several local Poplarville men, Jewel Alford, Christopher Columbus \"Crip\" Reyer, L. C. Davis, \"Preacher\" James Floren Lee, his son James Floren \"Jeff\" Lee, Herman Schultz, Arthur Smith and J.P. Walker, a former Pearl River County Sheriff’s deputy, who would be elected sheriff of Pearl River County in November 1963, quickly became the focus of the FBI’s intensive probe into the abduction and death of Parker.\n\nIn a three-hour interrogation session, FBI agents browbeat Crip Reyer. Reyer finally admitted that his red and white 1956 Oldsmobile 88 had been used by the mob, but denied having anything to do with the abduction or killing of Parker.\n\nOn May 13, under intense pressure from FBI agents, Arthur Smith confirmed the role of each of the participants and supplied the names of Walker, Preacher Lee, L.C. Davis and the names of others who were in the two cars. Smith told agents that Lee, Reyer, Davis, and Walker were in the lead car that carried Parker from the jail.\n\nThe judge and prosecutor would not co-operate with the FBI investigation and refused to hand over FBI evidence to the grand jury, deeming it hearsay, even though several of the mob members had confessed to the lynching. Judge Dale, who praised Theodore Bilbo's racial beliefs, and was a member of the White Citizens' Council; refused to indict the suspects. Dale encouraged the grand jury to \"have the backbone to stand against any tyranny,\" stating \"you are now engaged in battle for our laws and courts for the preservation of our freedom and our way of life.\" He urged them to \"keep their mouths shut.\" Dale also previously refused, before the lynching, Sheriff Moody's request to move Parker outside the county or have members of the Mississippi National Guard protect Parker.\n\nAfter a Mississippi grand jury refused to indict the lynchers, a federal grand jury in Biloxi then oversaw the case under District Court Judge Sidney Mize on January 1960 and failed to indict some of the mob by a single vote. Before the trial, Dale went to meet Mize and managed to convince him to narrow the Federal kidnaping statute\n\nBefore the last grand jury convened, Poplarville mayor Pat Hyde stated that “you couldn’t convict the guilty parties if you had sound film of the lynching,” and an unnamed Poplarville businessman rhetorically asked why the FBI even bothered to investigate since no jury would convict the killers.\n\nA May 11 article in the \"Chicago Defender\", a popular black newspaper circulated throughout the South, recounted an interview with an anonymous white male from Poplarville, claiming to have personal knowledge that the charges against Parker were fabricated. The alleged witness claimed that the alleged victim, June Walters, was in fact having an affair with a local white man, and she went with him while her husband, Jimmy, was gone to get help to fix the car. When her absence was discovered before she returned, she concocted a rape and kidnapping story to shield her infidelity. The witness also indicated that the alleged victim fainted upon learning of Parker's kidnapping from the jail, and stated that he deserved a trial.\n\nOn June 1959, attempts were made to enact an anti-lynching bill, which was stalled, as many others, by the Southern Democratic bloc.\n\nUnlike the article in the \"Chicago Defender\", biographer Howard Smead, who wrote the book \"Blood Justice: The Lynching of Mack Charles Parker\", believes that Parker was most likely not innocent, but said he was \"not 100 percent sure.\" Smead believes that Parker should have been given a fair trial and states that he never had a chance to prove his innocence. Smead writes that the local black community, many of whom knew Parker, were divided in opinion of his guilt. Many who held him, at the time of the crime, to be guilty, never wavered in their view thereafter.\n\nSome locals complained about supposed FBI encroachment and other aired typically racist statements, such as one resident stating to reporters that \"Parker's a good nigger now. The only good nigger is a dead nigger.\" Other residents complained about \"reckless conduct\" from FBI agents, and an unnamed town leader said about the town that \"We all are shook up over the lynching, but many suffer from a case of a bad conscience.\" \n\nDuring the campaign for the Democratic primary for governorship, the following posters were affiched in the county by Ross Barnett supporters:Remember Hungary. Remember Little Rock. Remember the Occupation of Poplarville by J. P. Coleman and the FBI. Don't forget that it was the Coleman-Gartin regime that called the FBI into Pearl River County. If Gartin is elected, the next occupation forces may be the N.A.A.C.P. and specially trained goon squads from the Justice Department.During a speaking tour for the Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission in the North on 1963, Dale said, to persons asking him about the Parker case, that he didn't think the perpetrators would be caught, adding three of them already died.\n\nParker's family left the county after the murder.\n\nDespite an extensive investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the presentation of evidence before both county and federal grand juries, no indictment or conviction was ever obtained against any of the men who murdered Mack Charles Parker. The main suspects identified by the FBI have all since died due to old age.\n\nIn 2009 the FBI announced they were re-opening the Mack Charles Parker case.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898847", "title": "Bob Pisani", "text": "Bob Pisani\n\nRobert Pisani has been a news correspondent for financial news network CNBC since 1990. Pisani largely covered the real estate industry and corporate management until 1997. Since then he has reported live from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, surrounded by the flurry of floor traders doing business. He mainly focuses on activity in major stock market indices, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500.\n\nPisani was twice nominated for a CableACE award, in 1993 and 1995. He also co-wrote a book with his father Ralph called \"How to be a Successful Developer\". He and his father also taught a course on real estate development at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania from 1987 to 1992.\n\nPisani was frequently and jokingly called the \"Italian Stallion\" and \"Cool Breeze\" by late CNBC personality Mark Haines. \"Cool Breeze\" is a reference to Pisani's interest in Jazz.\n\nIn December 2006, Mad Money host Jim Cramer used Pisani as an example of an easily manipulated reporter used by hedge fund managers to spread false statements about a company in order to illegally drive the stock price down. Cramer said, \"It’s really important to get the Pisanis of the world and people talking about it as if there is something wrong...\". Cramer has since apologized to Pisani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898850", "title": "Index of Sufism-related articles", "text": "Index of Sufism-related articles\n\nA list of topics related to the topic of Sufism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898853", "title": "Wrox Press", "text": "Wrox Press\n\nWrox Press (established in 1992) is a computer book publisher, originally based in Birmingham, England. Wrox uses a \"programmer to programmer\" approach, as all books published by Wrox are written by software developers. The original books were easily recognized by their red covers and black and white pictures of the authors.\n\nThe holding company of the original Wrox Press, Peer Information, liquidated its assets in an insolvency process executed during 2003. The name and some of the more successful titles (but not the company itself) were acquired by John Wiley & Sons, which continues to publish under the Wrox imprint.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898855", "title": "It's Not Easy Being Green", "text": "It's Not Easy Being Green\n\nIt's Not Easy Being Green is a television series on BBC Two starring Dick Strawbridge and focusing on how to live an environmentally friendly, low impact life. To date there have been three series.\n\nSeries one followed Strawbridge, his wife Brigit, son James, and daughter Charlotte as they moved into Newhouse Farm, a 400-year-old listed building in Tywardreath, Cornwall, from Malvern, Worcestershire. The series documented the family's attempts to convert the building and garden into a comfortable yet entirely ecologically friendly place to live. Dick Strawbridge said \"I don't want to wear a hemp shirt and hairy knickers, I want a 21st-century lifestyle with a coffee machine\".\n\nIn the first series they received advice from permaculture expert Patrick Whitefield and green auditor Donnachadh McCarthy. They were also helped by friends Jim Milner and Anda Phillips as well as at points a small army of friends and relatives. A book entitled \"It's Not Easy Being Green: One Family's Journey Towards Eco-Friendly Living\" by Dick Strawbridge was released to accompany the series.\n\nSeries two mostly focused on the Strawbridges helping others to achieve their eco-friendly goals, rather than on their own residence. Series three broadcast in 2009, took on more of a \"magazine\" format, incorporating various regular features including the series-long renovation of a townhouse using \"green\" materials and techniques and interviews with celebrities about how ecologically friendly (or otherwise) their own lifestyles are. Lauren Laverne appeared as a regular reporter in the third season, and James Strawbridge also had a larger role as co-presenter.\n\nNewhouse Farm is the home of Dick Strawbridge and his son James, and is where much of the filming for all 3 series of \"It's Not Easy Being Green\" occurred. The Strawbridges run eco courses at the farm which include information about making biodiesel, harnessing wind power, using water power, and eco-engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898861", "title": "List of prime ministers of Tanzania", "text": "List of prime ministers of Tanzania\n\nThis is a list of the prime ministers of Tanzania, from the establishment of the office of Chief Minister of Tanganyika in 1960 to the present day. \n\nTanzania was formed after the Zanzibar Revolution in 1964, when the People's Republic of Zanzibar and Pemba united with mainland Tanganyika to form the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, which was later renamed to the United Republic of Tanzania.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898862", "title": "Idris Muhammad", "text": "Idris Muhammad\n\nIdris Muhammad (; born Leo Morris; November 13, 1939 – July 29, 2014) was an American jazz drummer who recorded with Ahmad Jamal, Lou Donaldson, Pharoah Sanders, and Tete Montoliu.\n\nBorn Leo Morris in New Orleans, he grew up in the city's 13th Ward. He showed early talent as a percussionist and began his professional career while still a teenager, playing on Fats Domino’s \"Blueberry Hill\". \n\nHe toured with Sam Cooke, and later worked with Jerry Butler and Curtis Mayfield, mostly working in R&B until the mid-1960s, before going on to work more frequently in jazz.\n\nMuhammad was an endorser of Istanbul Agop Cymbals.\n\nHe died aged 74 in 2014.\n\nHe changed his name to Idris Muhammad in the 1960s upon his conversion to Islam. Speaking of his name change, he later noted in an interview with Modern Drummer magazine, \"One guy told me that if I changed my name, I was going to have a problem because no one would know that Leo Morris and Idris Muhammad were the same guy...But I thought, well, if I stay the same person, then people will know it’s me. And it worked like that. Everybody knew right away that it was me, because of my style of playing.”\n\nIn 1966, he married Dolores \"LaLa\" Brooks, a former member of the Crystals. She converted to Islam with him and went for a time by the name Sakinah Muhammad. They separated in 1999. Together, they had two sons and two daughters, and he had one daughter from a previous marriage to Gracie Lee Edwards.\n\nIdris Muhammad is probably best known for his 1974 album \"Power of Soul\", including the track \"Loran's Dance\", which received considerable airplay on jazz radio stations.\n\n\nWith Nat Adderley\nWith Eric Alexander\nWith Gene Ammons\nWith George Benson\nWith Walter Bishop, Jr.\nWith Bobby Broom\nWith Rusty Bryant\nWith George Coleman\nWith Hank Crawford\nWith Paul Desmond\nWith Fats Domino\nWith Lou Donaldson\nWith Charles Earland\nWith Grant Green\nWith Johnny Griffin\nWith Roy Hargrove\nWith Benjamin Herman\nWith John Hicks\nWith Andrew Hill\nWith Richard \"Groove\" Holmes\nWith Freddie Hubbard\nWith Bobbi Humphrey\nWith Willis Jackson\nWith Ahmad Jamal\nWith Bob James\nWith J. J. Johnson and Kai Winding\nWith Etta Jones\nWith Rodney Jones\nWith Keystone Trio\nWith Charles Kynard\nWith Joe Lovano\nWith Johnny Lytle\nWith Harold Mabern\nWith Jimmy McGriff\nWith Tete Montoliu\nWith Tisziji Munoz\nWith David \"Fathead\" Newman\nWith Don Patterson\nWith Houston Person\nWith Ernest Ranglin\nWith Roots\nWith Pharoah Sanders\nWith John Scofield\nWith Shirley Scott\nWith Lonnie Smith\nWith Melvin Sparks\nWith Leon Spencer\nWith Bob Stewart\nWith Sonny Stitt \nWith Gábor Szabó\nWith Stanley Turrentine\nWith Randy Weston\nWith Reuben Wilson\nWith Roberto Magris\n\n"}
{"id": "1898867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898867", "title": "Petrobras 36", "text": "Petrobras 36\n\nPetrobras 36 (P-36) was at the time the largest floating semi-submersible oil platform in the world prior to its sinking on 20 March 2001. It was owned by Petrobras, a semi-public Brazilian oil company headquartered in Rio de Janeiro. The cost of the platform was US$350 million (currently US$).\n\nThe vessel was built at the Fincantieri shipyard in Genoa, Italy in 1995 as a drilling rig. She was owned then by Società Armamento Navi Appoggio S.p.A. The rig was converted by Davie Industry, Lévis, Canada to the world's largest oil production platform.\n\n\"P-36\" was operating for Petrobras on the Roncador Oil Field, off the Brazilian coast, producing about of crude per day.\n\nP-36 was replaced by FPSO-Brasil which is a leased vessel from SBM Offshore. The FPSO-Brasil started its lease contract with Petrobras in December 2002.\n\nIn the early hours of March 15, 2001 there were two explosions in the aft starboard column at or around the emergency drain tank. The first explosion was caused by an overpressure event, the second by ignition of leaking hydrocarbon vapor. At the time there were 175 people on the rig; 11 were killed. Following the explosions, the rig developed a 16° list, sufficient to allow down-flooding from the submerged fairlead boxes.\n\nMarine salvage teams tried over the weekend to save the platform by pumping nitrogen and compressed air into the tanks to expel the water, but they abandoned the rig after bad weather.\n\nThe platform sank five days after the explosions (March 20), in of water with an estimated of crude oil remaining on board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898887", "title": "San Diego Unified School District", "text": "San Diego Unified School District\n\nSan Diego Unified School District (formerly known as San Diego City Schools) is the school district based in San Diego, California, United States. It was founded in 1854. As of 2005 it represents over 200 institutions and has over 15,800 employees. The average teacher in the district makes around $67,000 a year, with a benefit package worth around $24,000 a year. The district includes 113 elementary schools, 24 middle schools, 4 atypical schools, 10 alternative schools, 27 high schools and 25 charter schools.\n\nThe district is governed by a five-member elected board of education. Board members are elected by district for four-year terms.\n\nThe superintendent is appointed by the school board. From 2010 through 2013 the superintendent was Bill Kowba, a retired Navy rear admiral. On February 26, 2013, Kowba announced his retirement, effective June 30. The next day, February 27, the school board unanimously appointed elementary school principal Cindy Marten as the new superintendent. The quick appointment, without a search process or community input, was described as \"highly unusual - virtually unheard of\" by the \"San Diego Union Tribune\".\n\nList of primary and secondary schools in San Diego organized by district\n\nIn 2017, the district partnered with the Ocean Discovery Institute, a nonprofit that works to teach kids about science and conservation, to bring a $15 million tuition-free learning and research center to the City Heights neighborhood. The building will be a permanent campus for the nonprofit and will include two laboratories, a garden, a community kitchen and a residence for a live-in staff member. The Living Lab allows the nonprofit to reach all 10,000 students that attend and feed into Hoover High School.\n\nIn 2010, the district launched a farm to school program in an effort to bring locally grown produce to schools. The program seeks to provide students access to as much local, regional, and California grown produce as possible. In addition to produce grown at farms, the district has a Garden to Café program which allows schools to be certified by the San Diego Department of Environmental Health allowing the school to grow and serve their own produce.\n\nSan Diego Unified School district is the second largest school district in California and the largest in San Diego County. The district covers most of San Diego with the exception of San Ysidro, which is served by San Ysidro Elementary School District and Sweetwater Union High School District. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898891", "title": "Parliamentary group", "text": "Parliamentary group\n\nA parliamentary group, parliamentary party, or parliamentary caucus is a group consisting of members of the same political party or electoral fusion of parties in a legislative assembly such as a parliament or a city council.\n\nParliamentary groups may elect a parliamentary leader; such leaders are often important political players. Parliamentary groups often use party discipline to control the votes of their members.\n\nSome parliamentary systems allow smaller political parties, who are not numerous enough to form parliamentary groups in their own names, to join with other parties of differing ideologies (or with independent politicians) in order to benefit from rights or privileges that are only accorded to formally recognised groups. Such groups are termed technical groups.\n\nParliamentary groups correspond to \"caucuses\" in the United States Congress and the Parliament of Canada. A parliamentary group is sometimes called the \"parliamentary wing\" of a party, as distinct from its \"organisational wing\".\n\nThe term or equivalent applies to a number of countries, including: Australia (\"party room\"); Austria (\"Club\"); Belgium (\"fractie\"/\"fraction\"/\"Fraktion\"); Brazil and Portugal (\"grupo parlamentar\" or \"bancadas\"); Germany (\"Fraktion\"); Italy (\"gruppo\"), Finland (eduskuntaryhmä/\"riksdagsgrupp\"); the Netherlands (\"fractie\"); Switzerland (\"fraction\"/\"Fraktion\"/\"frazione\"); and Romania (\"grup parlamentar\"), which all have recognized multiparty systems.\n\nThe political groups of the European Parliament are similar to other parliamentary groups. They are more regulated than other kinds of parliamentary groups: to gain financial support or to join committees, each parliamentary group must consist of no less than 25 MEPs from seven different EU member states.\n\nGenerally, parliamentary groups have some independence from the wider party organisations. It is often thought improper for elected MPs to take instructions solely from non-elected party officials or from the small subset of the electorate represented by party members. In any case, the exigencies of government, the need to cooperate with other members of the legislature and the desire to retain the support of the electorate as a whole often preclude strict adherence to the wider party's wishes. The exact relationship between the parliamentary party and the party varies between countries, and also from party to party. For example, in some parties, the parliamentary and organisational leadership will be held by the same person or people, whether \"ex officio\" or not; other parties maintain a sharp distinction between the two offices. Nevertheless, in almost all cases, the parliamentary leader is the public face of the party, and wields considerable influence within the organisational wing, whether or not he or she has any official position there.\n\nA parliamentary group is typically led by a parliamentary group leader or chairperson, though some parliamentary groups have two or more \"co-leaders\". If the parliamentary group is represented in the legislature, the leader is almost always chosen from among the sitting members; if the leader does not yet have a seat in the legislature, a sitting member of the group may be expected to resign to make way for him or her. If the party is not represented in the legislature for the time being, the leader will often be put forward at a general election as the party's candidate for their most winnable seat. In some parties, the leader is elected solely by the members of the parliamentary group; in others, some or all members of the wider party participate in the election. Parliamentary groups often have one or more whips, whose role is to support the leadership by enforcing party discipline.\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom Parliament there exist associations of MPs called \"all-party parliamentary groups\", which bring together members of different parliamentary groups who wish to involve themselves with a particular subject. This term is in a sense the opposite of the term 'parliamentary group', which designates a group that includes only members of the same party or electoral fusion.\n\nOne special kind of parliamentary groups are the Parliamentary Friendship Groups, also called Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Groups or Friendship Parliamentary Groups or Parliamentary Group of Friendship [and Cooperation].\n\n\"Parliamentary Friendship\" groups are groups of congresspeople/members of parliament who voluntarily organise themselves to promote parliamentary relations between their own Parliament and another country's (or even a region's group of countries') parliament(s), and, in a broader scope, to foster the bilateral relations between said countries. Parliamentary friendship groups play an important role in New Zealand’s engagement in inter-parliamentary relations, with group members often called upon to participate and host meetings for visiting delegations from the other part, as well as often being invited by the other country's parliament to visit it.\n\nFriendship Groups do not speak for the Government of their own country, or even for the whole of the Parliament/Congress to which they belong, as they are usually self-regulating and self-fulfilling.\n\nParliamentary Friendship Groups are active in the national congresses/parliaments of countries such as Armenia, Australia, Brazil, Germany, Israel, Laos, New Zealand, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, South Korea, Switzerland, and the United States, among many others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898892", "title": "Progressive Republican Party (Venezuela)", "text": "Progressive Republican Party (Venezuela)\n\nProgressive Republican Party (\"Partido Republicano Progresista\", PRP) was a Communist party in Venezuela led by Rodolfo Quintero. It was formed on 1 June 1936.\n"}
{"id": "1898896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898896", "title": "Evangelos Sarris", "text": "Evangelos Sarris\n\nEvangelos Sarris (; 1881-1917) was an officer of the Cretan gendarmerie and one of the leaders of the National Defence movement in Greece. \n\nBorn in 1881 in Neapoli, Crete (province Mirambello), Sarris interrupted his studies in 1898 in order to participate in the revolution. Despite his young age, Sarris participated in many battles. When the French army arrived at the department of Lasithi, he enlisted as a volunteer in the gendarmerie. Since he could speak many languages as well as his native Greek, (including English, French, Italian, and Turkish), Sarris became an interpreter at the headquarters of the gendarmerie in Chania. During this time, he also saved the life of a man who was drowning in the harbour of Chania. \n\nEducated through the corps, Sarris became an adjutant in 1902. The same year, he visited the Peloponnese for the first time as commander of the music corps. In 1907, Sarris was promoted to the rank of second lieutenant, serving as in Crete as commander of various police departments until 1912. \n\nIn October 1912, Eleutherios Venizelos ordered the entire Cretan gendarmerie to be transported to Thessaloniki. There Sarris married Calliope Tatti, the great-granddaughter of Constantine Tattis, a member of the Filiki Eteria. In 1913, Sarris participated in the battle to capture Bulgarian troops stationed in Thessaloniki and was decorated with the silver knight's cross of the Battalion of Saviour for his services in liberated Thessalonica. \n\nIn 1916, along with other citizens and officers of Macedonia, Sarris took part in the creation of the Committee of National Defence. In August 1916, as commander of the first company, he participated in the National Defence coup d’ etat that intended to spur Greece's entry in World War I in favour of the entente powers. He died in February 1917 during an epidemic.\n"}
{"id": "1898897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898897", "title": "Polina Zhemchuzhina", "text": "Polina Zhemchuzhina\n\nPolina Semyonovna Zhemchuzhina (born Perl Semyonovna Karpovskaya; 27 February 1897 – 1 April 1970) was a Soviet politician and the wife of the Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov. Zhemchuzhina was the director of the Soviet national cosmetics trust from 1932 to 1936, Minister of Fisheries in 1939, and head of textiles production in the Ministry of Light Industry from 1939 to 1948.\n\nIn 1949, Zhemchuzhina was arrested by the Soviet secret police, charged with treason, and sent into internal exile, where she remained until after the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953.\n\nZhemchuzhina was born Perl Semyonovna Karpovskaya to the family of a Jewish tailor in the village of Polohy, in the Aleksandrov uyezd of Yekaterinoslav Governorate (today Zaporizhia Oblast, Ukraine). She joined the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party of Bolsheviks in 1918 and served as a propaganda commissar in the Red Army during the Russian Civil War. As a communist, she went by the surname Zhemchuzhina, which, like her birth name Perl in Yiddish, means \"pearl\" in Russian.\n\nIn 1921, she married Vyacheslav Molotov, by then a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). She also made a successful career in the Soviet hierarchy, serving in the Narkomat of Food Industry under Anastas Mikoyan, to become in 1939 the first female councillor of Narkom (of Fishing Industry) in the government of the Soviet Union, and was elected as a candidate to the Central Committee that year.\n\nDuring the 1920s, her sister emigrated to the British Mandate of Palestine. According to historian Zhores Medvedev, Stalin was highly suspicious of Zhemchuzhina. He thought that she negatively influenced Molotov, and he recommended Molotov divorce her.\n\nHer brother, Sam Carp, was a successful businessman in the United States.\n\nThe Molotovs shared an apartment with the Stalins. Zhemchuzhina and Stalin's wife Nadezhda Alliluyeva became close friends. In November 1932, Zhemchuzhina followed Alliluyeva out of a dining room after Stalin had publicly chastised his wife in the company of friends. The next morning Alliluyeva was found dead of an apparent suicide. This event is believed to have fueled a secret hatred of Zhemchuzhina by Stalin.\n\nIn a secret meeting of the Politburo on August 10, 1939, the agenda item number 33, \"Regarding Comrade Zhemchuzhina\" and her alleged \"connections to spies\", led to a request to verify that information by the NKVD. As it was customary during the Great Purges, many of her coworkers were arrested and questioned, but the \"evidence\" (frequently acquired by force) against her was so contradictory that on October 24, the Politburo concluded the \"allegations against comrade Zhemchuzhina's participation in sabotage and spying... to be considered slanderous.\" However, she was severely reprimanded and demoted for unknowingly keeping contacts with \"enemy elements thereby facilitating their spying missions.\" In February 1941, she was taken off the list of the candidates to the Central Committee.\n\nIn the Eastern Front of World War II, Zhemchuzhina actively supported the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee (JAC) and befriended many of its leading members, most notably Solomon Mikhoels. She frequently attended performances by the Moscow State Jewish Theatre.\n\nPolina Zhemchuzhina befriended Golda Meir, who arrived in Moscow in November 1948 as the first Israeli envoy to the USSR. Fluent in Yiddish, Zhemchuzhina acted as translator for a diplomatic meeting between Meir and her husband, the Soviet foreign minister.\n\nShe was arrested for treason in December 1948, as she openly supported the idea of granting the region of Crimea to Jews, consequently being forced into an unwanted divorce from Μolotov. She was convicted and sentenced to five years in a labour camp. After the death of Stalin in March 1953, she was released from captivity by Lavrentiy Beria and reunited with her husband. Her first question upon her release was \"How's Stalin?\" Upon being told he had died only days before, she fainted.\n\nHowever, Molotov now, according to Stalin's daughter, became very subservient to his wife. Molotov yielded to his wife in the same way he had previously yielded to Stalin. She died of natural causes in 1970.\n\nZhemchuzhina is portrayed by English actress Diana Quick in the 2017 film \"The Death of Stalin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1898899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898899", "title": "List of state routes in Georgia (U.S. state)", "text": "List of state routes in Georgia (U.S. state)\n\nThe State Routes in the U.S. state of Georgia (typically abbreviated SR) are maintained by the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT). Routes from 400 to 499 are mostly unsigned internal designations for Interstate Highways. Some of the Governor's Road Improvement Program (GRIP) corridors are numbered from 500 to 599.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898900", "title": "Paul Tse", "text": "Paul Tse\n\nPaul Tse Wai-chun, JP (, born 1959) is a Hong Kong solicitor, who claims himself as the \"Superman of Law\". He also owns a small travel agency and was elected to the Legislative Council of Hong Kong for the tourism functional constituency in the 2008 legislative election. He is known for his relationship with celebrity and radio host Pamela Peck. Tse is of Hakka ancestry.\n\nTse practised law as a barrister in Australia for seven years after graduating from University of New South Wales.\n\nTse then finished his pupillage in Hong Kong under Justice Peter Nguyen. Tse was called to the bar in 1992 and set up his own firm in 1997.\n\nHis media stunts and quest for self-publicity has caused controversy. From 1997 to 1999, Paul posed in his underpants only for magazines to spread the message that \"laws are inherent to every people\". After disciplinary hearings which lasted for nearly a decade, the Law Society of Hong Kong suspended his solicitor's license for 12 months for this stunt, but his firm could continue because there were other partners.\n\nIn 2010, Tse was the sole legislator to vote against the introduction of a minimum wage in Hong Kong.\n\nTse was born in Shap Pat Heung, Yuen Long, New Territories, Hong Kong, under a working family. His family lives in New Jersey, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898902", "title": "Calliope Tatti", "text": "Calliope Tatti\n\nCalliope Tatti () was born in Thessaloniki, Ottoman Empire in 1894. Great-granddaughter of Constantine Tattis who was member of the secret Greek society Filiki Eteria which in early 19th century organized the successful Greek War of Independence against the Ottoman Empire. Spouse of the Cretan gendarmerie officer Evangelos Sarris. After his premature death in 1917 she got married in 1922 to the chairman of the BAR association of Thessaloniki George Seremetis who was one of the most prominent attorneys in the city. He later served as mayor of the same city. \n\nCalliope Tatti studied at the English school of Thessaloniki during the years of the Ottoman administration. She spoke fluently English, French, Turkish and Greek.\n\nThessaloniki was captured by the Hellenic Army under Crown Prince Constantine during the first year of the First Balkan War (1912). Tatti immediately after the capture of Thessaloniki she volunteered to serve as a nurse in the hospital organized by the \"Central City School\" that was taking care of the wounded soldiers during both Balkan Wars.\nFrom her two marriages she had three sons, the first Constantine Sarris from the first husband and the two others from the second (Dimitrios Seremetis and Michael Seremetis). The first 2 sons became lawyers and practiced law in Thessaloniki and the third one became a physician (thoracic surgeon) who was trained and practiced in the United States.\n\nShe participated to a great number of charitable associations with considerable social service in Thessaloniki. She served as vice-president and later chairman of the “-Phoenix” charitable association (1933-1941) and the \"Philoptochos Fraternity of Thessaloniki ladies\" (1940-1950). \n\nShe offered a great deal of her own financial resources for the relief of her fellow-citizens during the starvation period of the German occupation (1941–1944). \n\nShe died in September 1978.\n"}
{"id": "1898905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898905", "title": "Mega TV (Malaysia)", "text": "Mega TV (Malaysia)\n\nMega TV was Malaysia's first ever subscription-based pay television service. It was incorporated on 18 October 1994 and began transmissions on 1 November 1995 and was operated by TV3. It was particularly noted for its failure to break into the pay television market.\n\nMega TV was transmitted from its headquarters in Bandar Utama, in the northern fringes of Petaling Jaya, Selangor.\n\nCableview Services Sdn Bhd or Mega TV was incorporated on 18 October 1994 by a consortium which consisted of Sistem Televisyen Malaysia Berhad.\n\nCable-based transmissions was officially inaugurated by the 4th Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tun Doctor Mahathir Bin Mohamad and broadcasts from Petaling Jaya on 1 November 1995 through a microwave-based broadcast system\n\nFaced with stiff competition from the Astro satellite television network which was launched seven months later, combined with the failures to expand its content, Mega TV ceased transmission in 2001 as a result, leaving Astro as the one and only pay-TV service provider in Malaysia.\n\nThis is correct as of 2001 just before Mega TV's closure:\n\n"}
{"id": "1898908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898908", "title": "Shuang Xing", "text": "Shuang Xing\n\nAstro Shuang Xing (Astro双星 in Simplified Chinese) is a 24-hour Mandarin commercial-free drama TV channel owned and run by pay TV provider, Astro. The channel provides premiere dramas mainly from China and Taiwan.\n\nAstro Shuang Xing started in early 2003, broadcasting two channels, i.e., Shuang Xing 1 and Shuang Xing 2 (channel 37 and 38, respectively). In early May 2004, the first channel was discontinued and only channel 38 was retained, merging the two channels to a single channel. In October 2007, with the channel renumbering, Astro Shuang Xing moved to channel 324 (until March 31, 2020, starting April 1, 2020, its Channel Number was changed to 347). Its programming genres cover from epic to idol, action, costume, comedy and romance. Its unique scheduling pattern enables viewers to catch up on the last episode first before broadcasting the new episode.\n\nAstro Shuang Xing HD was launched on 16 November 2014 and is the simulcast HD version of it On Channel 307. Malay and Chinese subtitles are available for all dramas (excluding Singapore dramas which does not have Chinese subtitle). However, English subtitles is only available for Cantonese (Between November 19, 2014 To September 23, 2015) and Japanese dramas.\n\nSince 9 July 2018, the channel starting showing more dramas from China while Singapore dramas moved to its sister channel, Astro AEC, Meanwhile, Astro Shuang Xing Was Broadcasting Rerun Dramas and New Released Dramas From China and Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898910", "title": "Kathy Kozachenko", "text": "Kathy Kozachenko\n\nKathy Kozachenko is an American politician who was the first openly lesbian or gay candidate to run successfully for political office in the United States. Kozachenko ran on the ticket of the Human Rights Party (HRP), the local, left-wing third party, which had already succeeded in winning two Ann Arbor, Michigan council seats in 1972.\n\nBorn in Alexandria, Virginia, Kozachenko moved around during her youth. From Toledo, Ohio, she would eventually make it to Plymouth, Michigan. She joined the Human Rights Party in the early 1970s. \n\nKozachenko was an out student at the University of Michigan, where she received support for her progressive agenda, which included a fine of no more than five dollars for possession of small amounts of marijuana. Another part of her platform included \"a ceiling on the amount of profit a landlord could make from rents on a building\".\n\nRunning solely against a liberal Democrat, the 21-year-old Kozachenko was elected to the Ann Arbor City Council on April 2, 1974. She won the seat \"representing the city's second ward by fifty-two votes\".\n\nKozachenko's HRP predecessors on the city council, Nancy Wechsler and Jerry DeGrieck, had come out as a lesbian and gay man during their first and only terms on the city council, thus becoming the first openly LGBT public-office holders in the United States; however, Wechsler and DeGrieck did not run for office as an open lesbian and gay individual.\n"}
{"id": "1898912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898912", "title": "David O. Calder", "text": "David O. Calder\n\nDavid Orson Calder (June 18, 1823 – July 3, 1884) was a prominent early pioneer settler in Utah.\n\nA native of Thurso, Caithness, Scotland, he joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in 1840, and in 1851 set off for Utah as a Mormon pioneer, accompanied by his widowed mother Anne Johnston Calder, his brother George Calder, and five other siblings. A man of excellent business ability, his talents were quickly recognized. In 1857, he was appointed chief clerk to the Trustee in Trust of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in that position organized a system of accounts and records in all the departments of the church.\n\nBetween 1859 and 1870, he held office as Territorial Treasurer of the Utah Territory under Brigham Young. After a visit to his native country, where he also labored as a Mormon missionary, he was chosen business manager and managing editor of the Deseret News, the principal newspaper in Utah at the time, and even today the second-largest newspaper by circulation between Denver and San Francisco. In 1867, Calder was asked by Brigham Young to establish a commercial college in Salt Lake City, which subsequently enolved into one of the components of the University of Utah.\n\nCalder ran the Deseret Musical Association in the late 1850s, which was largely a school teaching children to sing in choruses. This group was highly acclaimed in Utah by such people as Eliza R. Snow.\n\nFor part of the 1860s Calder held the monopoly on music supplies in at least Salt Lake City if not all of Utah, as owner of the Calder Music Store in Salt Lake City. He supplied music journals, scores for both classical and popular pieces, and strings, reeds and other necessary aids to playing ones instrument. Calder was also a founding shareholder of the Utah Central Railroad, and was elected a director of Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution (\"ZCMI\"), widely viewed as the first department store in the United States. He held his director position until his death in July 1884.\n"}
{"id": "1898920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898920", "title": "Patriotic League for Development", "text": "Patriotic League for Development\n\nPatriotic League for Development (, LIPAD) was an open mass front of the African Independence Party (PAI) in Burkina Faso. LIPAD was founded in September 1973. LIPAD was led by Arba Diallo. The militants of LIPAD were generally called \"lipadistes\".\n\nLIPAD had its main influence in the trade union movement. The general secretary of the Voltaic Trade Union Confederation (CSV), Soumane Touré, was also the head of the LIPAD section in Ouagadougou.\n\nLIPAD opted for 'Popular Revolution of National Liberation' (RPLN). Initially LIPAD offered vital support to the revolution of Thomas Sankara. In May 1983 pro-LIPAD students conducted massive demonstrations demanding his release. But when Sankara opted for the 'Popular and Democratic Revolution' promoted by ULC LIPAD withdrew its support. The USSR played an important role in provoking the split away from the Sankara government.\n\nFrom August 3, 1983 to August 1984 LIPAD held five ministerial posts. Arba Diallo was Minister of Foreign Affairs, Philippe Ouédraogo Minister of Equipment and Telecommunications and Adama Touré Minister of Information. After the break in 1984 (generally called \"la clarification\") Diallo and Touré were jailed. Diallo was released in 1985 and Touré in 1986. But even after \"la clarification\" lipadistes continued to hold some important positions. Michael Tapsoba was appointed Minister for Water in the new government. Ouédraogo was appointed chief engineer of mining.\n"}
{"id": "1898924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898924", "title": "Compression molding", "text": "Compression molding\n\nCompression Moulding is a method of moulding in which the moulding material, generally preheated, is first placed in an open, heated mould cavity. The mould is closed with a top force or plug member, pressure is applied to force the material into contact with all mould areas, while heat and pressure are maintained until the moulding material has cured. The process employs thermosetting resins in a partially cured stage, either in the form of granules, putty-like masses, or preforms. \n\nCompression molding is a high-volume, high-pressure method suitable for molding complex, high-strength fiberglass reinforcements. Advanced composite thermoplastics can also be compression molded with unidirectional tapes, woven fabrics, randomly oriented fiber mat or chopped strand. The advantage of compression molding is its ability to mold large, fairly intricate parts. Also, it is one of the lowest cost molding methods compared with other methods such as transfer molding and injection molding; moreover it wastes relatively little material, giving it an advantage when working with expensive compounds. \n\nHowever, compression molding often provides poor product consistency and difficulty in controlling flashing, and it is not suitable for some types of parts. Fewer knit lines are produced and a smaller amount of fiber-length degradation is noticeable when compared to injection molding. Compression-molding is also suitable for ultra-large basic shape production in sizes beyond the capacity of extrusion techniques. Materials that are typically manufactured through compression molding include: Polyester fiberglass resin systems (SMC/BMC), Torlon, Vespel, Poly(p-phenylene sulfide) (PPS), and many grades of PEEK. \n\nCompression molding is commonly utilized by product development engineers seeking cost effective rubber and silicone parts. Manufacturers of low volume compression molded components include PrintForm, 3D, STYS, and Aero MFG.\n\nCompression molding was first developed to manufacture composite parts for metal replacement applications, compression molding is typically used to make larger flat or moderately curved parts. This method of molding is greatly used in manufacturing automotive parts such as hoods, fenders, scoops, spoilers, as well as smaller more intricate parts. \nThe material to be molded is positioned in the mold cavity and the heated platens are closed by a hydraulic ram. Bulk molding compound (BMC) or sheet molding compound (SMC), are conformed to the mold form by the applied pressure and heated until the curing reaction occurs. SMC feed material usually is cut to conform to the surface area of the mold. The mold is then cooled and the part removed.\n\nMold and material behavior vary based on material types. New I-PRESS Servo Hydraulic technology provides end users with a greater degree of flexibility with press movement & pressure profiles and control of external devices such as automation to platen zone temperature control. With the latest of electronic servo motor to high pressure hydraulic pump users save considerable energy and the greatest in speed, distance, pressure, dwell time and burping movements. \nMaterials may be loaded into the mold either in the form of pellets or sheet, or the mold may be loaded from a plasticating extruder. Materials are heated above their melting points, formed and cooled. The more evenly the feed material is distributed over the mold surface, the less flow orientation occurs during the compression stage.\n\nCompression molding is also widely used to produce sandwich structures that incorporate a core material such as a honeycomb or polymer foam.\n\nThermoplastic matrices are commonplace in mass production industries. One significant example are automotive applications where the leading technologies are long fibre reinforced thermoplastics (LFT) and glass fiber mat reinforced thermoplastics (GMT).\n\nIn compression molding there are six important considerations that an engineer should bear in mind:\n\nCompression molding is a forming process in which a plastic material is placed directly into a heated metal mold then is softened by the heat and therefore forced to conform to the shape of the mold, as the mold closes. Once molding is completed excess Flash may be removed. Typically, compression molding machines open along a vertical axis.\n\nThe use of thermoset plastic compounds characterizes this molding process from many of the other molding processes. These thermosets can be in either preform or granule shapes. Unlike some of the other processes we find that the materials are usually preheated and measured before molding. This helps to reduce excess flash. Inserts, usually metallic, can also be molded with the plastic. As a side note, remember not to allow any undercuts on the shape, it will make ejection especially difficult. Thermoplastic matrices with an inherent indefinite shelf-life and shorter cycle moulding times are widely used and examples are shown in Ref 3.\n\nCompression molding is one of the oldest manufacturing technique for rubber molding. The process parameters includes molding time, temperature, and pressure. Usually, a 300-400 ton clamp pressure is used. The typical mold is shaped like a clam shell. The molding press looked a lot like a ladle filled vertical press used for casting aluminum. The bottom of the mold was always the cavity. Compression molding used preforms made by an extruder/wink cutter or a roller die/die cutter. Wink meaning that 2 blades meet on center to cut the extrudate to length. For example; Molding water bottles used die cut sheets from a roller die. The sheet was 3 inch by 6 inch. The first sheet was placed- one below a core and one sheet of equal size above the core, and then the top of the mold lowered by hand or by hoist to near shut. The mold was then pushed into the press. The start button hydraulically closed the vertical press to full pressure. The mold temperature was about 350 degrees. The platens of the presses were steam heated. When the cycle ended (about 3.5-4.0 Minutes) the press would open and the mold would be pulled out toward the operator. The operator would try to open the clam shell mold top, and then lean the top of the mold back against the press. Exposed is the bottle with the core still inside. While the bottle was still hot the operator would insert prongs like reverse pliers in between the bottle rubber and the steel core. The operator would then stretch the bottle at the neck over the core to free the bottle. In preparation of compression molding baby nipples and golf ball centers the preforms were extruded. The baby nipple was a kidney shape about 2 inches tall and 1/2 inch wide in the middle. The golf ball center preform had a 1 x 1 inch round slug. Both slugs were designed to stand up in the mold cavity. During the cycle the operator would load the jig with slugs. When the mold is opened, the lower platen would lower and the mold would be hydraulically pushed ou to the operator. Therein, the heat sheet (all molded parts from that cycle were joined together by a parting line rind (flash)) were placed in a transfer cart. The next cycle began by the jig being put over the mold. The slide tray was pulled and the preforms were released into the cavity of the mold. The start button moved the lower platen back into the press and the cure cycle bagan again. Therein the first cycle was complete. Each operator ran an average of 4 presses. Loading an unload was done during the cycle. The heat sheets removed from the mold were then transported to a die station. The die out station would remove the rind leaving the finished parts. With the evolution of compression molding, next was injection transfer. Basically the extruder was made part of the molding cycle. The rubber was injected into an upper heated platen station, and then pressure was applied to transfer molten rubber to the clamped mold. The design of injection transfer and improved molds were more so plastic injection molding except the platens and molds of injection transfer are heated. In contrast plastic Injections molding shoots a hot plastic into a cold mold.\n\nThree types of molds used are the flash plunger-type, straight plunger-type, and the \"landed\" plunger-type molds. The flash type mold must have an accurate charge of plastic and produces a horizontal flash (excess material protruding from the mold). The straight plunger-type mold allows for some inaccuracy in the charge of plastic and produces a vertical flash. The landed plunger type mold must have an accurate charge of plastic, and no flash is produced. Further details are explained in Ref 3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898925", "title": "Voltaic Revolutionary Communist Party", "text": "Voltaic Revolutionary Communist Party\n\nVoltaic Revolutionary Communist Party (, \"PCRV\") is a communist party in Burkina Faso. It was founded on 1 October 1978, following a split in the Voltaic Communist Organization (OCV).\n\nPCRV followed the political line of the Albanian Party of Labour, anti-revisionist Marxism-Leninism (later known as Hoxhaism). It promoted 'National Democratic and Popular Revolution' (RNDP).\n\nThe 1982 Upper Voltan coup d'état elevated Thomas Sankara to power. At that time, PCRV had powerful links in the trade unions and student movements. The party however refused to participate in Sankara's revolutionary government, arguing that a military coup is not the same as a popular revolution. In 1984, it again refused to participate in the government during a cabinet reshuffle. This led to a split and the formation of the Burkinabé Communist Group.\n\nPCRV publishes \"Bug-Parga\".\n\nDuring the Cold War, PCRV was pro-Albanian. PCRV is an active participant in the International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (Unity & Struggle).\n"}
{"id": "1898931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898931", "title": "Rionero in Vulture", "text": "Rionero in Vulture\n\nRionero in Vulture is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the southern Italian region of Basilicata. It is located on the slopes of Monte Vulture in the northern part of the region.\n\nThe first historical mention of the hamlet of \"Saint Maria di Rivonigro\" goes back to 1152, when it is mentioned as a feudal possession of the bishop of Rapolla. In 1316 the inhabitants of Rionero abandoned their hamlet and took part in the construction of the village of Atella which had received tax concessions. The hamlet remained unpopulated during most of the 14th and 15th centuries until the influx of refugees from Albania (i.e. from Scutari and Corona) and several groups taking advantage of tax exemptions promulgated in those years. Its history overlaps with those of the neighbors Barile, Melfi, Ginestra (\"Lombarda Massa\") and Maschito.\n\nOn April 1, 1502 Louis d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours and Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba met at the Church of St. Antonio Abate in Rionero to negotiate whether France or Spain would control the provinces of Principato Citra, Principato Ultra, Capitanata, and Basilicata.\n\nIn 1627 the inhabitants of Rionero were forced to change their religious observances from the Greek rite to the Latin rite by Diodato Scaglia, the Bishop of Melfi.\n\nSeriously struck by the earthquake of 1694, Rionero's population in that period did not exceed 700. Later on the Caracciolo, princes of Torella, to whom belonged the feudal rights, granted permission for the deforestation, the tillage, and the cultivation of lands occupied from the forests of the locality \"Gaudo\" and as a result of the consequent economic development the population endured a strong growth: in the year 1735 the inhabitants had grown to approximately 3,000, in 1752 to approximately 9,000 and by 1811 they had exceeded 11,000. In this year, on May 4, the ancient hamlet obtained the administrative autonomy as a comune from King Joachim Murat. By the mid 19th century the population grew until reaching approximately 20,000 inhabitants. The successive and periodic waves of emigration diminished the population down to roughly 14,000 inhabitants.\n\nAfter the Italian unification, Rionero gave the birth to Carmine Crocco, the most well-known brigand of that period.\n\nOn 23 September 1943, German paratroopers of the 1st Parachute Division retreated from Atella after being shelled by Canadian artillery. They withdrew northward and for two more days they occupied Rionero. On September 24, sixteen Rioneresi were massacred in the Largo San Antonio by the paratroopers . Two days later on September 26, patrols from the Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry attached to the 1st Canadian Infantry Division entered Rionero and the neighboring town of Barile unopposed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898932", "title": "Voltaic Communist Organization", "text": "Voltaic Communist Organization\n\nVoltaic Communist Organization (, OCV) was a communist party in the country now known as Burkina Faso. It was founded in 1971 out of the student milieu. In 1978 OCV split in two, the pro-China Communist Struggle Union (ULC) and the pro-Albanian Voltaic Revolutionary Communist Party (PCRV).\n"}
{"id": "1898939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898939", "title": "Union of Communist Struggles", "text": "Union of Communist Struggles\n\nUnion of Communist Struggles (, ULC) was a Communist party in the country now known as Burkina Faso. ULC was formed out of a split of the Voltaic Communist Organization (OCV). It was constituted on 14 October 1979. ULC promoted 'Popular and Democratic Revolution' (RDP).\n\nIn 1981 ULC dissolved. In 1983 it was reconstituted, and known as Union of Communist Struggles - Reconstructed (ULC-R).\n\nThe ULC published \"Prolétaire\" and \"Révolution Bolchévique\".\n"}
{"id": "1898940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898940", "title": "AXN", "text": "AXN\n\nAXN (originally an initialism for Action Extreme Network) is a pay television channel owned by Sony Pictures Television, which was first launched on June 22, 1997. The network is now spread across several parts of the world, including Europe, Japan, India other parts of Asia and Latin America. Funded through advertising and subscription fees, AXN delivers 24 hours a day of action and crime TV series, movies, animations and adventure-reality and lifestyle sports programmes. In the United States, AXN was used as a brand name for the streaming of Sony's television library on streaming service Joost before it shut down in 2012.\n\nThere are various local versions of the channel, as listed below:\n\n\n\nAs part of a brand licensing agreement with Sony, Canadian broadcaster Hollywood Suite launched an AXN-branded movie network in 2012 known as AXN Movies, a re-branding of its network Hollywood Storm. The channel was discontinued on November 3, 2015, as part of the re-formatting of Hollywood Suite's channels to use decade-based formats.\n\nThe series and shows aired by AXN differ in each version of the channel since some series aired by AXN in one market may be in other channel's hands in another country. In some cases, U.S. shows that are broadcast by local networks will be broadcast with dubbed (Brazilian Portuguese, German, Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Italian, Polish, Slovak, Latin American Spanish, European Spanish, Japanese, & Russian) or subtitled (Croatian, Macedonian, European Portuguese, Romanian, Serbian, Slovenian, Malay, Bengali, Mandarin, Cantonese, Hindi, Indonesian, Mongol, Nepalese, Urdu, Sinhalese, Korean, Taiwanese, Thai, Khmer, Laotian, Vietnamese, Dzongkha, Ukrainian, Dhivehi and Kazakh) in the same market. There are some examples of series aired by AXN:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898946", "title": "Two Lone Swordsmen", "text": "Two Lone Swordsmen\n\nTwo Lone Swordsmen were a British electronic music duo from London, England. It consisted of Andrew Weatherall and Keith Tenniswood.\n\nFormed by Andrew Weatherall and Keith Tenniswood in 1996, following the dissolution of Weatherall's the Sabres of Paradise, Two Lone Swordsmen released material on the record label Emissions Audio Output, run by Weatherall. However, the small nature of the operation limited the duo's success and they subsequently signed to Warp.\n\nTwo Lone Swordsmen's debut studio album, \"The Fifth Mission (Return to Flightpath Estate)\", was released in 1996. The duo released \"Stay Down\" in 1998. It was placed at number 22 on \"Pitchfork\"s \"50 Best IDM Albums of All Time\" list. The duo released \"Tiny Reminders\" in 2000. It was placed at number 19 on \"Pitchfork\"s \"Top 20 Albums of 2000\" list. The duo released \"From the Double Gone Chapel\" in 2004.\n\nOn 17 February 2020, Andrew Weatherall died due to a pulmonary embolism at the age of 56.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898955", "title": "A Song for ××", "text": "A Song for ××\n\nA Song for ×× (the \"××\" is silent) is the major-label debut album and second album overall by Japanese pop artist Ayumi Hamasaki, released January 1, 1999, by Avex Trax. Primarily a rock-pop album, it features musical composition and arrangements by Yasuhiko Hoshino, Mitsuru Igarashi, and others.\n\n\"Poker Face\" was released as the album's lead single on April 8, 1998. Entering the Oricon chart at number twenty, it became her first charting single. Four further singles were released to promote A Song for ××: \"You\", \"Trust\", \"For My Dear...\", and Depend on You\". All of them were top twenty hits in Japan, with the latter three reaching the top ten.\n\nThe album debuted atop the Oricon Charts with first week sales of 548,210 copies; it topped the chart for five weeks, a remarkable feat for a debut album. Its high first week sales were partly due to its debut sales being the first and second week sales combined (Oricon only has 51 weeks instead of 52). The album charted for 63 weeks and was certified Million by the Recording Industry Association of Japan for shipments exceeding one million copies in the country. As of 2008, \"A Song for ××\" is Japan's 139th best selling album of all time.\n\n\n\nTotal Album and Single Sales: 2,096,040\n"}
{"id": "1898960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898960", "title": "Tadeusz Dołęga-Mostowicz", "text": "Tadeusz Dołęga-Mostowicz\n\nTadeusz Dołęga-Mostowicz (; 10 August 1898 – 20 September 1939) was a Polish writer, journalist and author of over a dozen popular novels. One of his best known works, which in Poland became a byword for fortuitous careerism, was \"The Career of Nicodemus Dyzma\" (, 1932). Literary historians believe that the book inspired the 1971 novel \"Being There\" by Jerzy Kosiński who sparked considerable controversy in the West.\n\nTadeusz Mostowicz, the son of a wealthy Polish lawyer in the age of partitions, was born on 10 August 1898 at his family's village of Okuniewo near Vitebsk in the Russian Empire (now Belarus). After graduating from \"gimnazjum\" (high school) in Vilna (now Vilnius, Lithuania), then also in the Russian Empire, in 1915 Tadeusz embarked upon law studies at the University of Kiev while the First World War raged on in Central Europe. He befriended numerous fellow members of the Polish diaspora and became involved in a local underground group of the \"Polska Organizacja Wojskowa\" (Polish Military Organization, abbreviated \"\"POW\"\" in Polish).\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution, Okuniewo was seized by Bolshevik Russia, and Mostowicz's family moved back to newly reborn Poland, where they bought a small village. Also in 1918, Tadeusz moved to Warsaw, where he joined the Polish Army. He fought as a volunteer in the Polish-Soviet War of 1919–21, and was demobilized in 1922.\nWhile working at printing houses, Mostowicz sent short stories to newspapers and was finally discovered to be a talented reporter. From 1925 he was on the staff of the daily \"Rzeczpospolita\" (\"The Republic\"), one of the most influential newspapers in Poland. About that time he adopted the pen name \"\"Dołęga\"\", after his mother's \"Dołęga\" coat of arms. While a journalist, he began publishing short stories and pamphlets, many of which achieved considerable popularity.\n\nIn 1928 he quit his journalistic job and devoted himself full-time to writing fiction. The following year he finished his first novel, and in 1930 published it as \"Ostatnia brygada\" (\"The Last Brigade\"). However, it was not until 1932 that he became famous as the author of \"Kariera Nikodema Dyzmy\" (\"The Career of Nicodemus Dyzma\"), the most popular of his books. Initially serialized in newspapers, the novel proved a major success. Thereafter Mostowicz wrote an average of 2 novels a year. His monthly income is estimated to have exceeded 15,000 złotych, some 2,800 1939 US dollars.\n\nDuring the Invasion of Poland in 1939, Dołęga-Mostowicz was mobilized and served as commanding officer of an outpost defending a bridge over the Cheremosh River at the town of Kuty in southeastern Poland. On 22 September 1939 he was killed in a skirmish with the advancing Soviet Red Army. Resulting from this, most of his books were banned in Stalinist Poland after the communist takeover.\n\nIn 1978 his remains were exhumed and on 24 November interred at Warsaw's Powązki Cemetery.\n\nMost of his novels have been filmed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898961", "title": "Gabonese Democratic Party (1945)", "text": "Gabonese Democratic Party (1945)\n\nThe Gabonese Democratic Party (, PDG) was a political party in Gabon.\n\nThe party was established in 1945 by Emile Issembe and Paul Gondjout.\n\nIn August 1953 it merged with the Gabonese Mixed Committee (CMG) to form the Gabonese Democratic Bloc (BDG).\n"}
{"id": "1898966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898966", "title": "Loveppears", "text": "Loveppears\n\nLoveppears (stylized as \"LOVEppears\") is the second studio album by Japanese recording artist Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released in Japan, Hong Kong and China on November 10, 1999 through Avex Trax and the China Record Corporation, and distributed worldwide on April 10, 2001 by Avex Entertainment Inc. It was entirely written by Hamasaki herself, while the production was handled by Japanese musician Max Matsuura. Musically, \"Loveppears\" is a dance album and lyrically focuses on themes of love, frustration of life, loneliness, and individualism.\n\nUpon its release, \"Loveppears\" received favorable reviews from music critics. Many of those highlighted the singles as some of her best work, and complimented the transition from Hamasaki's previous pop rock-inspired music to dance. Commercially, the album was a success in Japan, reaching the top of the Oricon Albums Chart and eventually sold over 2.5 million units there, making it the 40th best selling album in that region. It was certified twice Million by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) for physical shipments of two million units, and is Hamasaki's third highest selling album based on Oricon Style's database.\n\nTo promote the album, Hamasaki released 11 singles. One of the singles, \"Love (Destiny)\", became her first single to top the Oricon Singles Chart, other singles were able to reach the top ten). \"Boys & Girls\" and the extended play \"A\" sold over one million units, a first for Hamasaki. Majority of the album's material were promoted through Japanese commercials, which later became a staple for Hamasaki's future work, and some songs appeared on various remix albums conducted by Hamasaki. She performed most of the songs on her 2000 Japan concert tour.\n\nAfter the success of Hamasaki's January 1999 studio album \"A Song for ××\", she began writing songs for her next studio album. However, her record label Avex Trax decided to release a remix album titled \"Ayu-mi-x\". The record marked the beginning of the incorporation of music elements outside of her pop rock sound, including trance, house and electronic music. This transition into mainstream dance music made Hamasaki recruit new composers and producers for the then-upcoming studio album, including Japanese dance band HΛL, Do As Infinity member and composer Dai Nagao, and Kazuhito Kikuchi, amongst others.\n\nAvex Trax hired Japanese musician Max Matsuura to produce the entire record, alongside with Hamasaki and Japanese musician Naoto Suzuki's help, while Hamasaki wrote every song on the album. Recording sessions were handled at Prime Sound Studio, Studio Sound Dali, and Onkio Haus in Tokyo, Japan, and at Soundtrack Studios in New York City, United States; the final material was then mixed at Studio Sound Dali and Conway Studios in Los Angeles, California, and mastered by Eddy Schreyer at Oasis Masterings.\n\n\"Loveppears\" was noted by critics as Hamasaki's first transition from her \"cautious\" pop rock style in \"A Song for ××\". The album includes two instrumental tracks: \"Introduction\", which was composed by HΛL, and the \"Interlude\" song that was composed by Naoto Suzuki. Some of the singles on \"Loveppears\" had been remixed and re-composed, including \"Fly High\"; extended versions of \"Whatever\", \"Too Late\", \"Appears\"; and a revised version of \"Love (Destiny)\", which was re-written and titled \"Love: Refrain\". The album also includes a hidden track on the song \"Who...\", which is the album version of \"Kanariya\". Lyrically, the material on the album focuses on themes of love, frustration of life, loneliness, and individualism.\n\n\"Loveppears\" was released in Japan, Hong Kong and China on November 10, 1999 through Avex Trax and the China Record Corporation. The album included the seventeen tracks and, apart from the Chinese release, included a bonus Enhanced CD that features commercial files, small audio samples of all her recordings, internet links, images of magazine appearances, files of Hamasaki's voice, and images of Hamasaki being photographed in New York City, New York. The enhanced CD also includes five remixes; two non-stop mega mixes of Eurodance and house inspired music, the Millennium mix of \"A Song for ××\", an acoustic mix of \"Powder Snow\", and the Make Me Mad remix of \"Friend II\". On April 10, 2001, the album was re-released worldwide by Avex Entertainment Inc. through digital outlets.\n\nThe artwork for \"Loveppears\" was shot by Toru Kumazawa in New York City and Los Angeles, California. The cover features Hamasaki topless with a light brown wig covering her breasts. Hamasaki believed that the material on the album influenced her decision in calling the album \"Loveappears\", stating \"While working on \"A Song for ××\", during the sad times that I couldn't shake, I'd always be saying 'I'm very sad, I can't shake this.' Quietly crying, quietly wounded, quietly mourning. But with \"Loveppears\", I express it with furious sounds, shouting out, screaming.\" During an interview with Japanese magazine \"Beatfreak\" in November 1999, Hamasaki explained that the title represented the visual aspects of a relationship (appears) and how people see love; she explained in full detail;\n\n11 singles were released to promote \"Loveppears\", including one extended play and three limited edition releases. The first single was \"Whatever\", which was released on February 10, 1999 on physical and digital formats. In Japan, it became her highest charting single on the Oricon Singles Chart at the time, reaching number five. The following single, \"Love (Destiny)\", was released on April 14, 1999 on physical and digital formats. It became Hamasaki's first single to reach the top of the Oricon Single Chart. \"To Be\" was released as the album's third single on May 12, 1999, and reached the top five on the Oricon Singles Chart. The next two singles; \"Boys & Girls\" and the extended play \"A\" (included the songs \"Trauma\", \"End Roll\", \"Monochrome\", \"Too Late\"), managed to sell over one million units each, with the latter release becoming Hamasaki best selling single according to the data base at Oricon Style. Each individual track from \"A\" were promoted through commercial endorsements in Japan.\n\nThe next three singles; \"Appears\", \"Kanariya\", and \"Fly High\", had a limited availability of 300,000 copies. \"Appears\" was released on November 10, 1999 in physical and digital formats. The single was also Hamasaki's first release outside of Japan, having been remixed by Junior Vasquez and Armin Van Buuren, and distributed in 2001–2002 throughout North America and Europe. \"Kanariya\" was released on December 8, 1999, and was her only limited edition single from the album to peak at number one on the Oricon Singles Chart. It was her second single to have been released in North America, having been remixed by Jonathan Peters. The album's final single was \"Fly High\", which was released in Japan on February 9, 2000, her first single inside of the 2000s decade.\n\nAvex Trax USA and Europe decided to release promotional 12 inch vinyls of various tracks from \"Loveppears\". \"Monochrome\" was remixed by Keith Litman, and released in North America, while Eurofen and Bonus Kaos remixed the track and released it in the United Kingdom. American duo Thunderpuss remixed the track \"Trauma\" and released it in North America through Avex Trax USA. \"Too Late\" was remixed by Soul Solution and was released in North America, while the original mix of the album track \"Immature\" was released as a double A-side single with \"Appears\" in Japan, as part of a promotion for her 2000 concert tour.\n\nUpon its release, \"Loveppears\" received positive reviews from most music critics. A staff member working for \"CD Journal\" enjoyed the album and labeled it \"bold\". The review also stated that the music on \"Loveppears\" was at \"high quality\", and praised the producers and composers work on the material. The album brought Hamasaki several nominations and accolades, including a win at the Japan Gold Disc Awards for Best Pop Album of the Year, marking her second win after \"A Song for xx\". Alongside this, her single \"A\" won the award for Song of the Year.\n\nCommercially, \"Loveppears\" was a success in Japan. The album debuted at number one on the Oricon Albums Chart, selling over 1.2 million units in its first week of sales. The record became the 34th album with the highest first week sales, and is Hamasaki's third feat. By the end of 1999, the album was ranked at number 14 on the Oricon Yearly Albums Chart with over 1,443,490 units sold; this made it the fourth highest selling album by a female artist, just behind Mariah Carey, Ami Suzuki and Utada Hikaru. The album continued to chart in 2000, and effectively sold an additional 1,077,960 units by the end of that year, reaching number 14 on the annual chart. The album stayed in the Oricon Top 200 chart for 64 weeks, becoming Hamasaki's longest spanning entry to date.\n\nIt was certified double Million by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) for physical shipments of two million units, and is Hamasaki's third highest selling album based on Oricon Style's database. As of July 2016, \"Loveppears\" has sold over 2.5 million units in Japan, and is the 40th best selling album in Japan of all time; this marks it Hamasaki's second highest studio album behind \"Duty\", and the 10th highest selling album by a female artist.\n\nHamasaki promoted the album with extensive commercial deals in Japan; according to Alexey Eremenko from AllMusic, he commented in his biography of Hamasaki, \"its success boosted by ad contracts that Hamasaki has raked in ever since as a spokesman, beginning with the Asian cosmetics juggernaut Kose (later she also worked for the likes of Honda and Panasonic).\" She went onto promote several other products within Asia, including various food snacks, vehicles, and technology. In retrospect of the commercial deals, although Hamasaki initially supported the exploitation of her popularity for commercial purposes, saying that it was \"necessary that [she is] viewed as a product\", she eventually opposed Avex's decision to market her as a \"product rather than a person\".\n\nSeveral tracks from \"Loveppears\" were featured on remix compilations during 1999 and 2000. The first was her February 2000 Eurobeat compilation \"Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix\". A four album series were then released to support \"Loveppears\"; the first three were the Japanese remix album \"Ayu-mi-x II Version JPN\", the American and European remix album \"ayu-mi-x II Version US+EU\" and the acoustic \"Ayu-mi-x II Version Acoustic Orchestra\", all released on March 8, 2000. The final album, \"Ayu-mi-x II Version Non-Stop Mega Mix\", reached number six and was certified platinum by RIAJ.\n\nHamasaki then performed several tracks from \"Loveppears\" on concert tours, including \"Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol. 1\", \"Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol. 2\", \"Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A\" and \"Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2003–2004 A\". The music videos to \"Whatever\", \"Love (Destiny)\", \"To Be\", \"Boys & Girls\", \"Appears\", \"Kanariya\", \"Fly High\" and other album promotional footage were featured on her 2004 video box set \"Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Clip Box A\".\n\n\nCredits adapted from the CD liner notes of \"Loveppears\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898970", "title": "Pilot Project on Children used by adults in the commission of crime", "text": "Pilot Project on Children used by adults in the commission of crime\n\nThe South African Child Labour Programme of Action has identified Children used by adults in the commission of crime (CUBAC), one of the Worst Forms of Child Labour, as a priority area for action on child labour in South Africa.\n\nAccordingly the Programme Towards the Elimination of the worst forms of Child Labour (TECL), a programme to kickstart action on the Child Labour Programme of Action, commissioned the Children’s Rights Project of the Community Law Centre, University of the Western Cape, to do research and design pilot projects with a focus on CUBAC. The purpose of the overall project is to investigate the phenomenon, to design and run pilot projects, and to develop and implement policy to combat the use of children by others in the commission of crimes. \n\nThis project is run in the stages listed in the table of contents.\n\nThis project is currently in Stage 1: research and design.\n\nThe research and design stage of this pilot includes three processes:\n\nThe environmental scan was aimed at identifying the prevalence, location and nature of offences where children are used by others to commit crime in order to provide a credible basis for initiating the work in phase two, which will centre on more in-depth research around programme design and situational analysis in 4 potential pilot sites.\n\nThe pilot project was run in two of the sites where the baseline study was conducted, in Mitchell's Plain in the Western Cape, and in mamelodi in Gauteng, from late 2005 until April 2007.\n\nPolicy will be developed during the pilot design and implementation stages. During the third stage a process through which the main implementing agencies, such as relevant government departments, will consider and possibly adopt key recommendations, operationalise measures, including budgeting for them. During this stage the pilot projects will be closed, or handed to government departments, agencies or NGOs. \n\nThe following institutions are involved in the project:\n"}
{"id": "1898971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898971", "title": "Anthony Andrews", "text": "Anthony Andrews\n\nAnthony Colin Gerald Andrews (born 12 January 1948) is an English actor best known for his role as Lord Sebastian Flyte in the 1981 ITV miniseries \"Brideshead Revisited\" (1981). He is also known for playing the lead roles in \"Ivanhoe\", \"Operation Daybreak\", \"Danger UXB\" and \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\", and for portraying Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin in \"The King's Speech\" (2010). For his performance in \"Brideshead Revisited\" Andrews won Golden Globe and BAFTA TV Awards, and was nominated for an Emmy.\n\nAndrews was born in London, the son of Geraldine Agnes (\"née\" Cooper), a dancer, and Stanley Thomas Andrews, an arranger and conductor for the BBC. He grew up in North Finchley London. At the age of eight he took dancing lessons, making his stage debut as the White Rabbit in a stage adaptation of Lewis Carroll's \"Alice in Wonderland\".\n\nAfter a series of jobs that included catering, farming and journalism, he secured a position at the Chichester Theatre where he worked as an assistant stage manager and later as a stand-in producer. He auditioned in 1968 for a production of Alan Bennett's new play, \"Forty Years On\", which featured John Gielgud as the headmaster of a British public school during the First World War period. Andrews was cast as Skinner, one of twenty schoolboys. In 1974 he played Lord Robert, Marquis of Stockbridge in the TV series \"Upstairs, Downstairs\". In 1975 he had a leading role in the Spanish film \"Las adolescentes\" (The Adolescents), opposite Koo Stark.\n\nIn June 1979 he was cast in the role of Bodie in the ITV series \"The Professionals\". However, after three days of filming, the creator and producer Brian Clemens felt that the chemistry between Andrews and Martin Shaw (Doyle) did not work and that \"the pair did not have the required undercurrent of menace to carry off the concept\". Lewis Collins replaced Andrews in the part. Following that, in 1979, Andrews was the main star of the ITV television series \"Danger UXB\", in which he played a British bomb disposal officer in the London Blitz. The series first aired in the United Kingdom in 1979 on the ITV network.\n\nHis subsequent work includes the leading role of Lord Sebastian Flyte in \"Brideshead Revisited\". In 1982, he won a Golden Globe and BAFTA TV Award for his performance and was nominated for an Emmy Award. In the United States, Andrews is best known for his portrayal of the titular character in \"Ivanhoe\" as well as that of Sir Percy Blakeney in the 1982 film \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\".\n\nHe played Professor Higgins in a stage version of \"My Fair Lady\" (2001), and Count Fosco in Andrew Lloyd Webber's \"The Woman in White\".\n\nHe was the narrator for a 21st anniversary BBC Radio 2 special broadcast of Cameron Mackintosh's musical \"Les Misérables\", sung by the then West End cast at the Mermaid Theatre in London on Sunday 8 October 2006. Andrews appeared as Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin in the 2010 film \"The King's Speech\", for which he won a SAG Award along with Helena Bonham Carter, Jennifer Ehle, Colin Firth, Michael Gambon, Derek Jacobi, Guy Pearce, Geoffrey Rush and Timothy Spall.\n\nAndrews survived a case of water intoxication in 2003. The condition, also known as hyponatraemia (\"low blood sodium\"), occurs when sodium ions in the body are diluted so far that nerves are unable to function properly. The condition has symptoms similar to those of dehydration, such as headaches, nausea and cramps. Whilst performing as Henry Higgins in \"My Fair Lady\", Andrews would consume up to eight litres of water a day. He lost consciousness and spent three days in intensive care.\n\nHe married Georgina Simpson of the Simpsons of Piccadilly department store family. They have three children – Joshua who is a theatre producer, Jessica is a film producer and artist and lastly Amy-Samantha has a wedding business. She is also a god-daughter of Princess Anne, The Princess Royal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898972", "title": "Agios Pavlos, Chalkidiki", "text": "Agios Pavlos, Chalkidiki\n\nAgios Pavlos (Greek: Άγιος Παύλος) is a village and a community in Chalkidiki, Greece. It is part of the municipality Nea Propontida, southeast of Thessaloniki. The community consists of the villages Agios Pavlos and Nea Irakleia (population in 2011 491 and 832 respectively). Nea Irakleia has a school, a church and a beach.\n\nFarmlands cover the coastline around Nea Irakleia while the mountains cover the rest of the community. Tourism is very common during the summer months.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898979", "title": "Laïs (band)", "text": "Laïs (band)\n\nLaïs is a Flemish group that creates folk, and world music consisting of polyphonic close harmony songs, occasionally a cappella, based on self-composed melodies with lyrics dating back to the Middle Ages. \"Laïs\" is a Celtic word, meaning \"voice\".\n\nLaïs' career started in 1994, when Jorunn and Annelies, together with Soetkin Collier (who later became a vocalist with the Belgian folk music group Urban Trad), performed a song at a folk festival in Gooik, near Brussels. Nathalie joined the group somewhat later. They had their breakthrough after their appearance at Folk Dranouter, near Ypres, in 1996.\n\nTheir debut CD album, sung a capella as well as accompanied instrumentally by the folk rock band Kadril, was released in 1998. They performed at the Klein Karoo Nasionale Kunstefees in Oudtshoorn, South Africa (1996), at Vorst Nationaal, Belgium (1998), Canada, France (1999) (as a supporting act for Sting), Spain (1999, 2000), the Netherlands and China (2001).\nDuring the summer of 2000 they performed at important festivals in Belgium such as Pinkpop and Rock Werchter. In 2001 they made a much acclaimed return to the festival at Dranouter.\n\nIn 2003 they made a mini tour along Flemish churches and chapels, singing a capella with the vocal support of Ludo Vandeau. This resulted in the CD \"A la capella\".\nIn April 2004 they released their third CD to the market under the title \"Douce Victime\", with covers from Jacques Brel and Herman van Veen. This time it not only contained a capella songs but also Cajun music, the London Chamber Orchestra and some World Music influences. It was recorded at the legendary Abbey Road Studios in London.\n\nWith their album \"The Ladies' Second Song\", released in September 2007, the group changed their approach and tried to reach a broader public. They could no longer be characterized as folk. The album introduces the use of electric guitars, loops and electronic beats. Their lyrics have equally undergone a thorough overhaul. Instead of drawing their lyrics from old Flemish songbooks, they have turned to poetry from William Butler Yeats, Paul Verlaine and Pablo Neruda.\n\nIn 2009 they released the album \"Laïs Lenski\" together with the cellist Simon Lenski.\n\nThe female vocal trio part of Laïs are three young women from Kalmthout:\n\nThey are accompanied by four men:\n\nLaïs has also renewed their band: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898980", "title": "Duty (album)", "text": "Duty (album)\n\nDuty is the third studio album by Japanese recording artist Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on September 27, 2000 by Avex Trax. \"Duty\" is Hamasaki's first studio album inside the 2000 decade, and her third consecutive studio album to be fully produced by Japanese musician and businessman Max Matsuura. The album's composing and arrangement was handled by several music collaborators, such as Ken Harada, Kazuhito Kikuchi, Dai Nagao, HΛL, among many others. Hamasaki contributed to the album as the primary and background vocalist, and songwriter to every song. Three different formats were released to promote the album: a standalone CD, a limited edition Playbutton, and a digital download. The cover sleeve has Hamasaki wearing a leopard-print cat suit.\n\nUpon the album's release, it was met with favorable reviews from music critics. Critics highlight individual songs as stand out tracks, and found the album a memorable effort within the Japanese pop genre. \"Duty\" became Hamasaki's third studio album to reach the top spot on Japan's Oricon Albums Chart. The album has sold over three million units in Japan, making it her best selling studio album as well as the sixth highest selling Japanese album of the 2000 decade. Five singles were released from the album. Two of the singles, \"Seasons\" and \"Surreal\", topped Japan's Oricon Singles Chart, while the former sold over 1.3 million units in Japan. Hamasaki promoted the album through her 2000 self-titled concert tour.\n\n\"Duty\" is Hamasaki's first studio album inside the 2000 decade, and her third consecutive studio album to be fully produced by Japanese musician and businessman Max Matsuura. For the album, Hamasaki's record label Avex Trax hired several Japanese musicians, Ken Harada, Kazuhito Kikuchi, Dai Nagao, HΛL, among many others to work on the album. Those producers are just some of whom worked with Hamasaki on her second studio album, the predecessor \"Loveppears\" (1999). \"Duty\" is also Hamasaki's third consecutive album to be composed, arranged, and produced by Japanese producers and composers. For the album, she contributed as the main and background vocalist, and became her third studio album to feature songs written by her. Three songs on the album; the trilogy set \"Vogue\", \"Far Away\", and \"Seasons\", focus on the theme of hopelessness, a reflection of Hamasaki's disappointment that she had not expressed herself thoroughly in any of her previous lyrics and a sense of shame of her public image. Likewise, many of the songs she wrote for the album involved feelings of loneliness, chaos, confusion, and the burden of her responsibilities. She described her feelings after the song writing was done as \"unnatural\" and was constantly \"nervous\" for the finished result. \n\nThe album is a J-pop and rock album with numerous musical elements of Latin pop and dance. According to Takako Tsuriya from \"Cawaii\" magazine, much of the musical style was \"darker\" than \"Loveppears\". Likewise, the magazine labelled it a \"rock\"-influenced album with only one dance song, \"Audience\". \"Audience\" is also Hamasaki's second self-written song to incorporate an English word. The album opens with the house-influenced \"Starting Over\", which is an instrumental track. \"Vogue\" was influenced by the musical element of Latin pop.\n\n\"Vogue\", alongside \"Far Away\", and \"Seasons\" are all written about three different time frames; \"Vogue\" discusses Hamasaki's presence, \"Far Away\" details her past, and \"Seasons\" talks about her future. The title track, \"Scar\", \"End of the World\", and \"Surreal\" were referenced by a staff reviewer at Yahoo! GeoCities as \"dark\" rock songs with \"mad[ness]\" lyrics. \"Teddy Bear\" is a piano-only ballad track that discusses Hamasaki's nostalgia. \"Key (Eternal Key)\" is a midtempo pop rock song with several guitar riffs. The album's closer is \"Girlish\", a \"warm\" pop rock song.\n\n\"Duty\" was released on September 27, 2000 by Avex Trax in three different formats. It was also released on the same day as her single \"Surreal\". The stand-alone CD featured the twelve tracks in a jewel case, with first press editions including an obi. A limited edition Playbutton, which is a headphone-insert device, featured the twelve tracks. The final format is the digital release, which was released in Japan at the time. In September 2008, the album, alongside several other albums and singles released by her, were released digitally on iTunes Store and Amazon.com. The album artwork was photographed by Toru Kumazawa, and features Hamasaki in a leopard-print cat-suit. She is standing in between two elastic poles, similar to a cage or jail cell. The art direction and designing was handled by Shinichi Hara and Shigeru Kasai from RICE, and leopard print was printed throughout the booklet. An out take of the album cover was used as the cover sleeve for the CD single and DVD/VHS release of \"Surreal\".\n\n\"Duty\" received positive reviews from most music critics. Kiyoshiga Ebihara from Amazon Japan was very positive in his review. Ebihara commended Hamasaki's song writing, where he stated that it was projected by her variety of \"emotions\"; he labelled this the \"Ayu color\". He commended how the material went \"deeper\" and called it one of the best Japanese albums within the 2000s decade. A staff reviewer from \"CD Journal\" was positive in their review. In comparison to Hamasaki's second album, \"Loveppears\", the reviewer praised her application of \"poetic\" lyrics and clearer vocals. A staff reviewer from Yahoo! GeoCities was very positive in his review, awarding the album eight stars out of ten. The reviewer complimented the album's divided themes; the first half being \"crazy\" while the second half was \"gentle\". At the Annual 2001 Japan Gold Disc Awards, Hamasaki won Domestic Artist of the Year, \"Duty\" was awarded Pop Album of the Year and the single \"Seasons\" was awarded Song of the Year.\n\nIn Japan, \"Duty\" debuted at number the top spot on the Oricon Albums Chart with over 1.6 million units sold in its first week of sales. This became Hamasaki's highest first week sales for an album, until it was surpassed by her 2001 greatest hits compilation \"A Best\" with 2.874 million units in its first week of sales. \"Duty\" stayed at number one for a second week, with 339,810 units sold in its second week of sales. It stayed at number one for a third week, with 205,180 units sold in its third week of sales. It stayed at number one for a fourth week, with 116,970 units sold in its fourth week of sales. The album slipped to number three in its fifth week, selling 94,640 units in its fifth week of sales.\n\nThe album fell outside the top 10 on December 4, 2000, the album's ninth week, selling 30,760 units. The album fell out the top 20 the following week, and sold 2.63 million units on December 4. By the time of Oricon's Annual album's list, \"Duty\" ranked at number two. The following year, it was ranked at number 77 with an additional 300,870 units sold. The album was certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) for shipments of three million units in Japan. The album charted for 27 weeks in total, and has sold over 2.9 million units in Japan and over 3.3 million units worldwide, making this Hamasaki's best selling studio album both domestically and internationally. It is also the sixth best selling album in Japan for the 2000s decade.\n\nSeveral tracks from \"Duty\" were released on remixed compilations during 2000 and 2001. The first was her February 2001 non-stop remix album \"ayu-mi-x III Non-Stop Mega Mix Version\". It peaked at number three and was certified platinum by RIAJ. The second album from the series was \"Ayu-mi-x III Acoustic Orchestra Version\", an orchestral version of \"Duty\". It reached four and was certified platinum by RIAJ. Two Eurobeat albums were released on 27 September 2001 to promote \"Duty\": \"Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix 2\" and \"Cyber Trance Presents Ayu Trance\". They peaked at number one and three and were certified platinum by RIAJ, respectively.\n\nTo promote \"Duty\", Hamasaki performed on several tours and concert shows; the first was her \"Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol. 1\". She promoted the album on her \"Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol. 2\", \"Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A\" and \"Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2003–2004 A\", and her music videos for \"Vogue\", \"Far Away\", \"Seasons\", \"Surreal\" and other album promotional footage were featured on her 2004 video box set \"Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Clip Box A\". Her dome tours in Japan attributed to her being one of few \"top-drawer\" Japanese artists to hold a concert at the Tokyo Dome.\n\n\"Vogue\" was released as the album's lead single on April 24, 2000. The song is the first part of the \"Duty\" trilogy singles. Upon its release, the track garnered positive reviews from music critics, who praised the composition and Hamasaki's song writing. It also achieved success in Japan, peaking at number three on the Oricon Singles Chart and four on the TBS Count Down TV chart. It was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) for shipments of 800,000 units. \"Vogue\" has sold over 767,000 units in Japan, as of today. The accompanying music video for \"Vogue\" was directed by Wataru Takeishi; it features two children in a post-apocalypse city, reading a book that has video imagery of Hamasaki in a cherry blossom field.\n\n\"Far Away\" was released as the album's second single on May 17, 2000. The song is the second part of the \"Duty\" trilogy singles. Upon its release, the track garnered positive reviews from music critics, who praised Hamasaki's song writing and selected it as an album and career stand out track. It also achieved success in Japan, peaking at number two on the Oricon Singles Chart and on the TBS Count Down TV chart. The song was certified platinum by RIAJ for shipments of 400,000 units. \"Far Away\" has sold over 510,000 units in Japan, as of today. The accompanying music video for \"Far Away\" was directed by Takeishi, and leads on from the video of \"Vogue\"; it features two children in a post-apocalypse city, reading a book that has video imagery of Hamasaki in a cherry blossom field. Hamasaki then appears in the post-apocalypse city.\n\n\"Seasons was released as the album's third single on June 7, 2000. The song is the third and final part of the \"Duty\" trilogy singles. Upon its release, the track garnered positive reviews from music critics, who praised Hamasaki's song writing, the song's composition and selected it as an album and career stand out track. It also achieved success in Japan, peaking at number one on the Oricon Singles Chart and on the TBS Count Down TV chart. \"Seasons\" has sold over 1.367 million units in Japan, making this Hamasaki's best selling single as of today. \"Seasons\" was certified million by RIAJ for shipments of one million units. In August 2014, the song was certified gold by RIAJ for digital sales of 100,000 units. The accompanying music video for \"Seasons\" was directed by Takeishi, and leads on from the videos of \"Vogue\" and \"Far Away\"; it features Hamasaki in a black gown in the middle of a post-apocalypse city.\n\n\"Surreal\" was released as the album's fourth single on September 27, 2000. Upon its release, the song received positive reviews from most music critics. Majority of the critics commended the song writing and musical delivery, and highlighted it as an album and career stand out track. It also achieved success in Japan, peaking at number one on the Oricon Singles Chart and on the TBS Count Down TV chart. The song was certified platinum by RIAJ for shipments of 400,000 units. The song has sold over 417,000 units in Japan, as of today. The accompanying music video for \"Surreal\" was directed by Takeishi; it features Hamasaki wondering a beach and jungle, finding a cat-like clone of herself.\n\n\"Audience\" was released as the album's fifth and final single on November 1, 2000. Upon its release, the song received positive reviews from most music critics. Majority of the critics highlighted it as an album and career stand out track. It also achieved success in Japan, peaking at number two on the Oricon Singles Chart and three on the TBS Count Down TV chart. The song was certified gold by RIAJ for shipments of 200,000 units. The song has sold over 293,000 units in Japan, as of today.\n\nThe DVD single for the trilogy singles, released under the title of \"Vogue/Far Away/Seasons\" reached at number one on the Oricon DVD Chart, spending seventeen weeks in the top fifty. It is Hamasaki's second best selling DVD single, and her eighth best seller overall. Despite not charting in Japan, album track \"Teddy Bear\" was certified gold by RIAJ for digital sales of 100,000 units.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898985", "title": "Rainbow (Ayumi Hamasaki album)", "text": "Rainbow (Ayumi Hamasaki album)\n\nRainbow (stylized as RINBOW) is the fifth studio album by Japanese recording artist Ayumi Hamasaki, released on 18 December 2002 by Avex Trax. Production of \"Rainbow\" had commenced after the release of Hamasaki's fourth studio album \"I Am...\" that January; All lyrics were written by Hamasaki, and Japanese producer Max Matsuura returned to produce the album. The album was Hamasaki's first to feature conversational English lyrics, where in her previous works she had only used single words.\n\nChannelling pop and trip hop music, \"Rainbow\" focuses on lighter themes that were established on her previous album. Some songs focus on loneliness, sadness and relationships, while the rest talk about happiness, having fun and nostalgia. Critics' opinions of the album were generally favourable; the composition and lyrical content were commended. However, some critics dismissed Hamasaki's vocals and Matsuura's production. Upon its release, the album entered the Oricon Albums Chart at number one with first week sales of over one million units, becoming her fifth album to reach the top spot, her fourth to debut there, and her fourth to sell over one million copies in its debut week. \"Rainbow\" is the eighty-ninth highest selling Japanese album of all time.\n\nHamasaki promoted the album by releasing three singles: \"Free & Easy\", \"H\", and \"Voyage\". All three reached number one, with Free & Easy becoming the first of a record breaking twenty-five consecutive number one singles, a streak that did not break until 2013, when her single \"Feel the Love/Merry-Go-Round\" stalled at number five. All of the singles except \"H\" were accompanied by a short music video. Hamasaki performed several tracks from the album in several television appearances in 2002 and 2003, and has performed some of the album's songs on several concert tours and countdown live shows.\n\nOn New Year's Day 2002, Hamasaki released her fourth studio album \"I Am...\" on Avex Trax. The album saw a new direction for Hamasaki, whose first three studio albums were dominated by a pop rock sound, and lyrics based on loneliness, confusion, sadness, relationships and individualism. The result was not generally well received by critics, who found Hamasaki's artistry \"unassuming\", particularly on her debut release \"A Song for ××\" (1999). After being affected emotionally by the September 11 attacks, Hamasaki quickly changed the planned music direction for \"I Am...\", and updated the album cover to support world peace. The album was Hamasaki's first to focus on lighter themes, such as faith, humanity and serenity. \"I Am...\" became a success and sold over 2.3 million copies in Japan, and was certified triple million by the RIAJ.\n\nThe lyrics to the tracks from \"Rainbow\" are written by Hamasaki. While promoting \"I Am...\", Hamasaki performed for the first time outside Japan at the 2002 MTV Asia Music Awards in Singapore. Her performance has been seem as an influencing factor for Japanese musical acts to begin performing overseas. At the ceremony, Hamasaki felt that by only writing Japanese lyrics, she was not able to bring her \"message\" to other countries and decided to begin writing in English. \"Rainbow\" contains three songs with English lyrics: \"Real Me\", \"Heartplace\" and \"Over\". Like her previous album, Hamasaki focused on balancing lighter and darker themes for the album content; several tracks on the album talk about happiness, loneliness, nostalgia, love, and fun experiences. Japanese producer Max Matsuura returned as the album's primary producer. All songs were recorded in Japan through March to November 2002, and were mastered by Shigeo Miyamoto at FLAIR.\n\nThe introduction, \"Everlasting Dream\", is an instrumental piece. Composer CMJK said he was inspired by a phrase he used in creating the song, which was “No rain, no rainbow … If it doesn't rain (heartache), you won't see a rainbow (beauty and happiness).” Lyrics were written for the song, but were removed in the final piece. \"We Wish\" is an uptempo pop rock song. \"We Wish\" was the original title for the album, but Hamasaki felt that it didn't work well. The third track \"Real Me\", which is the first song to feature English-language phrases, is a string-based R&B song that was compared to the work of American recording artist Aaliyah. The lyrics to \"Real Me\" deal with feminism and female empowerment. \"Free & Easy\" incorporates instrumentations of horns and flutes, utilizing a soft and “airy” sound. \"Heartplace\" is an electronic rock song. The original version was straightforward hard rock sounds, but when Hamasaki added English lyrics, she felt it needed to be re-composed. \n\nBoth \"Over\" and \"Hanabi\" are trip hop songs that showcase higher notes performed by Hamasaki, with the first dealing with friendships and the latter discussing nostalgia. After the “magical” instrumental \"Taskinillusion\", the ninth track \"Everywhere Nowhere\" is inspired by uptempo 80s-inspired dance-rock music. The lyrical content deals with social activity. The tenth track \"July 1st\" is a “summery” dance-pop song. The title was inspired by a party she attended a day before, highlighting how fireworks from America's independence day on July 4 reflected the mood and sensation she was in. The lyrics are about fun experiences with friends.\n\nThe mid-tempo trip hop \"Dolls\" was inspired by an unnamed film by Japanese director Takeshi Kitano. The trip hop inspired instrumental piece \"Neverending Dreams\" leads on from \"Everlasting Dream\". \"Voyage\" talks about the equality between women and men. The composition of \"Close to You\" is inspired by Christmas music, and the final track \"Independent\" is an uptempo pop rock song that relates to the theme of independence. A hidden track \"+\" was used at the end of \"Independent\".\n\nThe album's lead single \"Free & Easy\" was released on 24 April 2002. The song received positive reviews from music critics, who highlighted it as an album stand out. The song was a success in Japan, reaching number one and was certified platinum by RIAJ for shipments of 400,000 units. Wataru Takeishi commissioned the music video, which features Hamasaki and was inspired by Joan of Arc.\n\nThe album's second single was released as an extended play, and featured the tracks \"Independent\", \"July 1st\" and \"Hanabi\"; it was titled \"H\". Released on 24 July 2002, it received positive reviews from music critics, who highlighted the song's production and composition. The song reached number one on the Oricon Singles Chart and was certified million by RIAJ, and it remains was her final million-certified single to date. It occupied the top spot on the 2002 Annual Oricon Singles Chart, Hamasaki's first and only single to achieve this. The song \"Hanabi\" was a commercially successful sleeper hit, being certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of Japan in January 2015, for selling 100,000 legal downloads since its release twelve and a half years prior.\n\nThe album's third and final single \"Voyage\" was released on 26 September 2002. It received positive reviews from music critics, who commended the composition and lyrical content. It reached number one on the Oricon Singles Chart and was certified triple platinum by RIAJ, her highest selling single underneath the million threshold. A short film was directed by Isao Yukisada and featured Hamasaki as a Japanese princess. The DVD was released and featured the video. All her singles from \"Rainbow\" were awarded Song(s) of the Year at the 2003 Japan Gold Disc Awards.\n\nSeveral tracks from \"Rainbow\" appeared as remixed versions on her 2003 compilation series: \"Rmx Works from Ayu-mi-x 5 Non-Stop Mega Mix\", \"Rmx Works from Cyber Trance Presents Ayu Trance 3\", and \"Rmx Works from Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix 3\". To promote \"Rainbow\", Hamasaki performed on several tours and concert shows; the first was her \"Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2002 A\". She also promoted the album on her \"Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A\", \"Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2002–2003 A\" and \"Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2003–2004 A\", and her music videos for \"Free & Easy\", \"Voyage\" and other album promotional footage were featured on her 2004 video box set \"Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Clip Box A\".\n\n\"Rainbow\" was released on 18 December 2002 by Avex Trax. It was released in Taiwan by Avex Taiwan and in China by Avex and the China Record Shanghai Corporation (CRSC). The promotional photography, directed by Shinichi Hara and photographed by Leslie Kee, features a blue-hued Hamasaki sitting in water with rainbow-colored extensions in her hair; her name and the album title is featured at the bottom. Hara has been Hamasaki's creative director for promotional work and began collaborating with her in 1998. His final work was directing the sleeve for Hamasaki's 2009 single \"Sunrise/Sunset (Love Is All)\". A DVD of \"Rainbow\" was released in Japan in early 2003.\n\n\"Rainbow\" received favorable reviews from most music critics. \"Rainbow\" was the first written review for Hamasaki by American journalist Adam Greenberg for Allmusic. Awarding it three-and-a-half stars out of five, he commented that “\"Rainbow\" came after a string of high-charting albums, itself not reaching the same heights thanks to some interesting but uneven experimentation with her sound.” Although he criticized the production and certain fillers, he concluded “The album doesn't have as much refinement as much of Hamasaki's later albums, but it shows the progression of her skills and vocal abilities.” He listed \"Rainbow\" as one of Hamasaki's best albums, alongside \"Secret\" (2005) and \"\" (2008). A reviewer for \"Geocities.co.jp\" was mixed, awarding \"Rainbow\" five stars out of ten. Although they praised the tracks \"July 1st\", \"Dolls\", \"Voyage,\" and \"Close To You\" for composition and quality, they noticed Hamasaki's lack of innovation and creativity. They felt the effort was \"half-hearted\" and \"tiresome\", and criticized the heavy electronic tracks.\n\n\"Rainbow\" entered at number one on the Oricon Albums Chart selling over one million copies in its first week. It stayed at number one for a sole week, and stayed on the charts for twenty-seven weeks. Selling over 1.8 million units in Japan, the album was certified million by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) for shipments of one million units. The DVD edition entered at number 220 on the Oricon Albums Chart, and stayed in for just one week.\n\n\"Rainbow\" is Hamasaki's fifth highest selling studio album according to Oricon; the DVD version is her fifty-third best selling album. The album is currently the eighty-ninth best selling Japanese album of all time, with total sales of 1.85 million units in Japan.\n\n\nOricon Sales Chart (Japan)\n"}
{"id": "1898986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898986", "title": "Memorial Address", "text": "Memorial Address\n\nMemorial Address (stylized in sentence case) is the first extended play (EP) by Japanese recording artist Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on December 17, 2003 by Avex Trax. \"Memorial Address\" is Hamasaki's longest extended play with a total of eight tracks. The album's composition and arrangement was handled by several musicians, such as Tetsuya Yukumi, Bounceback, CMJK, Dai Nagao, amongst others. Hamasaki contributed to the album as the primary and background vocalist, composer, and songwriter to every song. Three different formats were released to promote the album: a standalone CD, a CD and DVD bundle, and a digital release. It was Hamasaki's first album to be released as a CD+DVD package, a marketing strategy her label would often employ throughout her career.\n\nUpon the album's release, it was met with favourable reviews from music critics. Critics highlight individual songs for their production and composition, and commended the singles' commercial appeal. \"Memorial Address\" became Hamasaki's first extended play to reach the top spot on Japan's Oricon Albums Chart. It was certified million by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ) for shipments of one million units in that region, making it the first extended play by a female artist to achieve this. Two singles and one EP were released from the album. Hamasaki promoted the EP on her 2003 and 2004 arena tour in Japan.\n\n\"Memorial Address\" is Hamasaki's first extended play (EP). It is currently her longest EP with eight tracks, tallying up to nearly 40 minutes. For the album, Hamasaki's record label Avex Trax hired several Japanese musicians, such as Tetsuya Yukumi, Bounceback, CMJK, Dai Nagao, amongst others. Those producers are just some of whom worked with Hamasaki on her fourth studio album, the predecessor \"Rainbow\" (2002). \"Memorial Address\" is also Hamasaki's first extended play to be composed, arranged, and produced by Japanese producers and composers. She contributed to the album as the primary and background vocalist, composer, and songwriter to every song. She composed two songs with Nagao; \"Hanabi: Episode II\" and \"Forgiveness\".\n\nOricon Sales Chart (Japan)\n\nTotal Single Sales: 1,184,652\n\nTotal Album and Single Sales: 2,246,949\n"}
{"id": "1898990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898990", "title": "National Assembly (Nigeria)", "text": "National Assembly (Nigeria)\n\nThe National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is a bicameral legislature established under section 4 of the Nigerian Constitution. It consists of a Senate with 109 membersand a 360-memberHouse of Representatives The body, modeled after the federal Congress of the United States, is supposed to guarantee equal representation with 3 Senators to each 36 states irrespective of size in the Senate plus 1 senator representing the Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria and single-member district, plurality voting in the House of Representatives. The National Assembly, like many other organs of the Nigerian federal government, is based in Abuja, in the FCT, Abuja.\n\nThe Senate is chaired by the President of the Nigerian Senate, the first of whom was Nnamdi Azikiwe, who stepped down from the job to become the country's first Head of State. The House is chaired by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. At any joint session of the Assembly, the President of the Senate presides and in his absence the Speaker of the House presides.\n\nThe Assembly has broad oversight functions and is empowered to establish committees of its members to scrutinise bills and the conduct of government officials. Since the restoration of democratic rule in 1999, the Assembly has been said to be a \"learning process\" that has witnessed the election and removal of several Presidents of the Senate, allegations of corruption, slow passage of private member's bills and the creation of ineffective committees to satisfy numerous interests.\n\nIn spite of a more than two-thirds majority control of the Assembly by the then ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP), the PDP government led by Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and the Assembly have been known more for their disagreements than for their cooperation. The Former President Goodluck Ebele Azikiwe Jonathan has been accused of being slow to implement policy. Many bills, some from as long ago as 2007, are still awaiting the President's assent. While the Assembly has made strong and often popular efforts to assert its authority and independence against the executive, it is still viewed generally in a negative light by the media and many of the Nigerian people. The Assembly sits for a period of at most four years, after which time the President is required to dissolve it and call a new Assembly into session.\n\nThe Senate has the unique power to impeach judges and other high officials of the executive including the Federal Auditor-General and the members of the electoral and revenue commissions. This power is, however, subject to prior request by the President. The Senate also confirms the President's nomination of senior diplomats, members of the federal cabinet, federal judicial appointments and independent federal commissions.\n\nBefore any bill may become law, it must be agreed to by both the House and the Senate, and receive the President's assent. Should the President delay or refuse assent (veto) the bill, the Assembly may pass the law by two-thirds of both chambers and overrule the veto and the President's consent will not be required. The present Assembly has not hidden its preparedness to overrule the executive where they disagree.\n\nThe National Institute for Legislative Studies (NILS) is an organ of the National Assembly established by an Act of Parliament. Former President Goodluck Jonathan signed into law the National Institute for Legislative Studies Act 2011 on 2 March 2011 following the passage of the same by the Senate and the House of Representatives. NILS builds on the successes of the Policy Analysis and Research Project (PARP), established in 2003 as a capacity building institution of the National Assembly with the financial support of the African Capacity Building Foundation (ACBF). NILS has as its core objectives to provide quality academic and professional research, policy analysis, training, documentation and advocacy on democratic governance and legislative practice and procedures. The functions of NILS are similar to the services offered to the US congress by Congressional Research Service, Congressional Budget Office, Library of Congress only on a lesser scale as the institute was just established.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898992", "title": "Of Darkness...", "text": "Of Darkness...\n\nOf Darkness... is a debut studio album released on February 1991 by the Swedish band Therion and it contains songs written in the early years of the band, during the 1980s. The album is indicated by the band itself as an end of its first era.\n\nThe album was re-released on 27 November 2000 under Nuclear Blast label as a part of \"The Early Chapters of Revelation\" box-set. It contains remastered songs, as well as four bonus tracks.\n\nAfter releasing the third demo record \"Time Shall Tell\" EP in 1990, Therion got attention from the British label Deaf Records, a subsidiary of Peaceville Records, and signed the band's first contract. \"Of Darkness...\" was recorded in Swedish studio Sunlight in Stockholm from August to September 1990 and released on February 1991. The initial line-up has not been changed since its last production. The album was produced by Tomas Skogsberg and the band itself.\n\n\"Of Darkness...\" consists of songs Christofer Johnsson had written in the years of 1987–1989, many of which were available on the band's demo recordings. Musically, \"Of Darkness...\" could be described as a typical death metal release, though elements of thrash metal are apparent as well. \n\nUnlike later albums, lyrically, many tracks on the album focus on political and social issues. \n\n2000 re-release album contains original remastered songs, and four bonus demo and previously unreleased songs.\n\nThe album reviews were mixed. \"Of Darkness...\" received a medium rating 2.5 of 5 at Allmusic with \"Morbid Reality\" and \"Megalomania\" songs picked by its staff, and 3.02 of 5 at the Rate Your Music community being only number 925 in its 1991 ranking.\n\n\"All tracks were written and composed by Christofer Johnsson.\"\n\n\n2000 re-release version contains following bonus tracks:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898995", "title": "Ster Century", "text": "Ster Century\n\nSter Century is a Slovak cinema company, formerly known as City Cinemas.\n\nThe brand was formerly used in the UK, Spain, Greece, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as a division of the South African cinema chain, Ster-Kinekor. Their UK head office was based in Camberley in Surrey.\n\nThere was one Ster Century cinema in Dublin, Ireland, and six in the UK: Basingstoke, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Leeds, Norwich, and Romford. The Dublin Liffey Valley Shopping Centre cinema - the first Ster Century to open - was one of the largest in Ireland or the UK, in terms of footfall.\nOf the six UK based sites, Norwich was the first to open in Autumn 2000.\n\nEstablished in 1996, the company was a spin-off from the South African cinema chain, Ster-Kinekor. Ster Century's first cinema was opened in 1998 in partnership with Assos Odeon, a cinema company based in Greece, under the name Ster Odeon.\n\nIn 1999 Ster Century opened its first cinemas under its own brand. By the end of the year it had operations in Dublin, Ireland; Prague and Brno, Czech Republic; Wrocław and Warsaw, Poland; and Budapest, Hungary.\n\nDevelopment continued in 2000 with further cinemas opened in the UK, Spain, Greece, Slovakia and additional sites in Poland and the Czech Republic.\n\nBy mid-2002 Ster Century had sold off its interests in Poland, Greece, Hungary and the Czech Republic to concentrate on its operations in Ireland and the UK.\n\nIn 2003 Ster Century's assets in Ireland and the UK were sold to Aurora Entertainment in a Management buy-out, with remaining assets in Spain and Slovakia being sold off to local cinema operators. In 2005, it was sold again to Vue, and the cinemas have been completely re-branded to Vue's identity since then.\n\nAll Ster Century Cinemas that have been re-branded still have some smaller elements (seat covers, \"no phone use\" signs, cinema lighting, carpet, etc.) that read \"Ster Century\" or bear the Ster Century logo.\n\nThe brand has recently been revived in Slovakia, following the renaming of City Cinemas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1898998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898998", "title": "Tony Fernandes", "text": "Tony Fernandes\n\nTan Sri Dr. Anthony Francis Fernandes (born 30 April 1964) is a Malaysian entrepreneur. He is the founder of Tune Air Sdn. Bhd., who introduced the first budget no-frills airline, AirAsia, to Malaysians with the tagline \"Now everyone can fly\". Fernandes managed to turn AirAsia, a failing government-linked commercial airline, into a highly successful budget airline public-listed company. He has since founded the Tune Group of companies. He is also the majority shareholder of Queens Park Rangers Football Club.\n\nHe was also instrumental in lobbying the then-Malaysian Prime Minister, Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad in mid-2003, to propose the idea of open skies agreements with neighbouring Thailand, Indonesia, and Singapore. As a result, these nations have granted landing rights to AirAsia and other discount carriers.\n\nAs of February 2014, \"Forbes Asia\" valued Fernandes' net worth at $650 million, ranking him at number 28 on the \"Forbes\" list of Malaysia's Richest.\n\nFernandes was born in Kuala Lumpur on 30 April 1964 to an Indian father (originally from Goa) and a mother of mixed Indian (Malayalee) and Asian-Portuguese (Kristang) descent who had been raised in Malacca, Malaysia. At a young age, he would follow his mother who sold Tupperware at Tupperware parties.\n\nHe was educated at The Alice Smith School in Kuala Lumpur. Starting at age 12, from 1976 to 1983, he studied at Epsom College boarding school in England. He matriculated to the London School of Economics and graduated with a degree in accounting.\n\nHe worked very briefly with Virgin Atlantic as an auditor, subsequently becoming the financial controller for Richard Branson's Virgin Communications in London from 1987 to 1989 before he joined Warner Music International London as Senior Financial Analyst.\n\nFernandes was admitted as Associate Member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) in 1991 and became Fellow Member in 1996. He is currently a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW).\n\nFernandes was formerly a Warner Music executive in Malaysia, and Vice President, ASEAN at Warner Music South East Asia from December 1999 to July 2001.\n\nWhen Time Warner Inc announced its merger with America Online Inc., Fernandes left to pursue his dream of starting a budget no-frills airline.\n\nIn September 2001, Fernandes purchased AirAsia and became its chief executive.\n\nIt was through Datuk Pahamin A. Rejab, the former secretary-general of the Malaysian Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs Ministry that Fernandes came to meet with then Prime Minister, Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad in October 2001.\n\nInstead of starting from scratch, Mahathir advised Fernandes to buy an existing airline. AirAsia, the heavily indebted subsidiary of the Malaysian government-owned conglomerate, DRB-Hicom, was losing money. Fernandes mortgaged his home and used his personal savings to acquire the company, comprising two Boeing 737-300 jet aircraft and debts of US$11 million (RM40 million), for one ringgit (about 26 US cents), and transformed it into an industry player. One year after his takeover, AirAsia had broken even and cleared all its debts. Its initial public offering (IPO) in November 2004 was oversubscribed by 130 per cent.\n\nFernandes says his timing was in fact perfect: after 11 September 2001, aircraft leasing costs fell 40%. Also, airline lay-offs meant experienced staff were readily available. He believed Malaysian travellers would embrace a cut-rate air service that would save them time and money, especially in a tight economy. Fernandes estimates about 50 per cent of the travellers on Asia’s budget airlines are first-time flyers. Before the advent of AirAsia, he estimated that only six per cent of Malaysians had ever travelled by air.\n\nFernandes' biggest achievement was to open up countries within the region to new budget carriers, which previously did not have open-skies agreements. As a result of Fernandes' lobbying in mid-2003, Dr Mahathir brought up the idea with leaders from neighbouring countries. Those nations subsequently granted landing rights to AirAsia and other discount carriers.\n\nIn Thailand and Indonesia, AirAsia holds a minority stake in the respective local companies. Thai AirAsia, a joint venture with Shin Corporation, Thailand’s largest telecommunication conglomerate, took to the skies in Feb 2004 and has to date carried over 1 million passengers in its first year of operations. PT Awair, re-launched as a low fare airline on 8 December 2004 and subsequently renamed Indonesia AirAsia, presently serves 5 domestic destinations in Indonesia.\n\nIn 2018 Fernandes announced that more low-cost carrier terminals would be developed, and confirmed that while AirAsia needed new planes, he had not yet decided on an aircraft manufacturer.\n\nFernandes’ plans to expand include bidding on the operations and maintenance contract for Clark International Airport in the Philippines.\n\nIn February 2020, Fernandes step aside as CEO of AirAsia as Airbus bribery allegations probed. A month later, Fernandes was reinstated as CEO of AirAsia after the Airbus bribery allegations probe was cleared by Britain's Serious Fraud Office of any wrongdoing.\n\nIn 2007, Fernandes started a hotel chain, Tune Hotels, based on the no frills concept. It has properties in Britain, Australia and the Far East.\n\nIn March 2012, he served on the International Advisory Board of Global March to Jerusalem, which aims to \"mobilize the international community in solidarity with Palestinians and to protect Jerusalem.\" A joint statement was issued, signed by the various members of the Board, including Fernandes.\n\nIn 2013, he hosted \"The Apprentice Asia\", the Asian spin-off of the reality game show \"The Apprentice\", in which a group of aspiring young businessmen and women compete for the chance to work with Fernandes.\n\nIn 2018, he was named the head of Malaysia Stadium Corporation (MSC) by the Malaysian Youth and Sports Ministry. \n\nFernandes is the founder of the Caterham F1 Formula One team, which began racing in as Lotus Racing and raced in as Team Lotus. On 2 July 2014, Caterham F1 was sold to a Swiss and Middle Eastern consortium.\n\nOn 16 December 2009, Fernandes accepted a \"challenge\" from Richard Branson, a fellow airline boss and the owner of Lotus' fellow F1 newcomers Virgin Racing. The losing team's boss would work on the winner's airline for a day dressed as a stewardess. Fernandes joked \"The sexier the better. Our passengers will be delighted to be served by a Knight of the Realm, but knowing Richard, the real challenge will be to prevent him from asking our guests 'coffee, tea or me?' That would be scary.\" In addition, the team produced a poster depicting Branson in an Air Asia uniform. However, the date of the flight was delayed several times: first because of Branson breaking his leg, then because of the royal wedding, finally because of a fire at the Necker Island. On 19 December 2012, Fernandes announced that Branson would honour his bet in May 2013. Branson ultimately honoured the bet on 13 May 2013.\n\nCaterham Racing, also created by Fernandes, competes in the GP2 Series.\n\nOn 27 April 2011, Fernandes announced that his company had purchased Caterham Cars.\n\nFernandes is a fan of English club West Ham United and was involved in talks regarding a potential takeover of the club in May 2011, at which stage it looked as if he was going to acquire a 51 per cent stake in the club. Former West Ham chairman Andrew Bernhardt even flew to Kuala Lumpur to try and finalise the deal, but the two parties failed to agree on the price. It was just one month later when Fernandes made another offer to buy 51 per cent of the club, although co-owners David Sullivan and David Gold rejected his bid. Sullivan told the \"London Evening Standard\": \"He wanted 51% of the club for two bob.\" Sullivan's comments started a war of words on Twitter. \"It was a good offer with good money and brought in good people,\" said Fernandes.\n\"Gold and Sullivan can say whatever they want. I have been a lifelong fan and would have brought good money, good ideas, new people and a new belief. As for PR stunts. Wow. They are always in the press making huge claims. Were we not supposed to be in Europe. Now we have been relegated. Two sacked managers. All good players will be sold. No new training ground which is the most important ingredient I feel. Look at how many injuries we have. And more investment into the academy.\"\n\nOn 18 August 2011, just three months after Queens Park Rangers' promotion back to the Premier League following a 15-year absence, Fernandes was unveiled as their majority shareholder, having bought Bernie Ecclestone's 66% stake. He was also named as chairman of QPR Holdings Ltd.\n\nWhile Neil Warnock remained as the club's manager for their return to the top-flight, a run of eight Premier League games without a win eventually led to his sacking. Mark Hughes was quickly named as his replacement, signing a two-and-a-half-year deal in the process. Despite their new manager, QPR's poor run of form continued, which left them fighting for Premier League survival on the final day of the 2011-2012 season. Relegation rivals Bolton Wanderers needed a win to have any chance of survival, but could only muster a draw with Stoke City, meaning QPR were safe, despite losing 3-2 to Manchester City after Sergio Agüero's injury-time winner - a goal which stole the Premier League title from arch-rivals Manchester United on goal difference.\n\nMark Hughes led the club into the 2012-2013 season, but after just four points from 12 games and without a single win - one of the worst starts in Premier League history - Fernandes dismissed Hughes. Fernandes hired former Tottenham Hotspur manager Harry Redknapp on 24 November 2012, but even he was unable to solve QPR's problems. Following a goalless draw with relegation rivals Reading on 28 April 2013, both teams were relegated to the Championship.\nSpeaking to the media just one week after Rangers' relegation back to the Championship, Fernandes said he had been exploited since he took over at Loftus Road. After investing an estimated £50 million into the club, he said: \"I don't think I will be exploited any more. I think I allowed myself to be exploited but that's my choice. Agents are trying to get the best contracts and there are no two ways about it, I had to pay premiums. I've seen all of the parts that make football quite - maybe immoral is a strong word - but they would sell their grandmother to do something. It's all part of the football ecosystem.\"\n\nIn 2013 Fernandes noted in an interview that he would leave the club if he was unable to “fix” their problems. In a 2017 interview, after a year in the Premier league in 2014-15 and three years relegated to the Championship league from 2015-18, Fernandes admitted having made several mistakes, but also noted that much had been achieved. He restored the former QPR badge and colours and engaged more with the community near Loftus Road. In August 2018, Fernandes noted that his tenure was “fast coming to a close”.”. He planned to step down and hand over the position of co-chairman to vice chairman Amit Bhatia, a change finalised on 15 August 2018.\n\nOn September 11, 2016, Fernandes declared that he has no interest in being the President of the Football Association of Malaysia (FAM), despite his answer to an impromptu question which was blown out of proportion.\n\n\n\n\nFernandes has received several awards for his achievements:\n\nOn 14 October 2017, Fernandes married a South Korean actress, Chloe, at Hotel Cap Estel, in Èze on the French Riviera after having dated her for more than two years.\n\nFernandes was previously married to Deborah Lee Bergstrom on 1 June 1994. They had a daughter and a son, Stephanie and Stephen.\n\nFernandes does not speak Malay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899014", "title": "John Munch", "text": "John Munch\n\nJohn Munch is a fictional character played by actor Richard Belzer. Munch first appeared on the American crime drama television series \"\" on NBC. A regular through the entire run of the series from 1993 to 1999, Munch is a cynical detective in the Baltimore Police Department's Homicide unit, and a firm believer in conspiracy theories. He is originally partnered with Det. Stanley Bolander (Ned Beatty). Munch is based on Jay Landsman, a central figure in David Simon's true crime book \".\"\n\nOn the cancellation of \"Homicide\" in 1999, Belzer was offered a regular role as Munch on the \"Law & Order\" spin-off titled \"\". He appeared in the first fifteen seasons of that series from 1999 to 2014, and occasionally as a guest thereafter. On \"SVU\", Munch becomes a senior detective in the New York Police Department's Special Victims Unit, and is first partnered with Brian Cassidy (Dean Winters), followed by Monique Jeffries (Michelle Hurd), and Fin Tutuola (Ice-T). In the premiere, Munch is promoted to the rank of Sergeant and occasionally takes on supervisory functions within the department. In season 14, Munch is temporarily reassigned to the Cold Case Unit, after solving a decade-old child abduction case in the episode \"Manhattan Vigil.\" He returns to the squad in \"Secrets Exhumed\", in which he brings back a 1980s rape-homicide cold case for the squad to investigate. In the season 15 episode, \"\", SVU Captain Donald Cragen (Dann Florek) informs Detective Olivia Benson (Mariska Hargitay) that Munch has submitted his retirement papers, stating that a recent case (portrayed in the episode \"\") had \"hit him hard\". In the following episode, \"\", Cragen and the squad throw Munch a retirement party, where past and present colleagues and family members celebrate his career. At the conclusion of the episode, Munch returns to the precinct to gather his belongings, where he and Cragen shake hands as Cragen remarks, \"you had one hell of a run, Sergeant Munch.\" Munch has returned, post-retirement, to help his colleagues in the fifteenth-season finale \"\" and the seventeenth-season episode \"\".\n\nThe character of Munch has appeared in a total of ten series on five networks since the character's debut in 1993. Apart from \"Homicide\" and \"SVU\", however, Belzer's performances as Munch were guest appearances or crossovers rather than regular or recurring appearances. With Munch's retirement in the character's 22nd season on television, he was a regular character on U.S television longer than Marshal Matt Dillon (\"Gunsmoke\") and Frasier Crane (\"Cheers\" and \"Frasier\"), both of whom were on television for 20 seasons. Munch's return to help his friends in the \"SVU\" seventeenth-season episode \"\" marks the 23rd season that the character has appeared on television in any capacity.\n\nMunch first appeared as a central character in the TV series \"Homicide: Life on the Street,\" as a homicide detective in the Baltimore Police Department's fictionalized homicide unit, which debuted January 31, 1993. The character was primarily based on Jay Landsman, a central figure in David Simon's true crime book \"\", a documentary account of the homicide unit's operation over one year. However, Munch's storyline also touched on the book's depiction of the relationship between real-life detectives Donald Worden and David Brown, in which Worden was relentless in his tutelage/hazing of the younger detective but also genuinely wanted him to succeed and was impressed when the younger cop did excellent work. A storyline in the book involving Brown's cracking a very difficult hit-and-run homicide was included almost verbatim in the show's pilot.\n\nBarry Levinson, co-creator and executive producer of \"Homicide\", said Belzer was a \"lousy actor\" during his audition when he first read lines from the script for \"Gone for Goode\", the first episode in the series. Levinson asked Belzer to take some time to reread and practice the material, then come back and read it again. During his second reading, Levinson said Belzer was \"still terrible\", but that the actor eventually found confidence in his performance.\n\nMunch appeared as a regular character in every season, and in almost every episode, of \"Homicide\". After \"Homicide: Life on the Street\" concluded its seventh season in May 1999, the character transferred into the \"Law & Order\" universe as a regular character on \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\" (both \"Homicide\" and the original \"Law & Order\" had crossed-over numerous times before, and Munch had featured centrally in each crossover). It is explained that Munch had retired from the Baltimore Police Department, taken his pension as a Maryland state employee, and moved to New York to join a sex crimes investigation unit, where he was eventually given a promotion to sergeant.\n\nMunch joined the BPD's homicide unit in 1983. During the fourth-season premiere of \"Homicide: Life on the Street\", he signs up to take a promotion exam in hopes of becoming a sergeant, but a \"comedy of errors\" prevents him from showing up for it. In the first episode of the ninth season of \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\", it is revealed that he passed the NYPD sergeant's exam, having taken it on a bar bet, and earned his promotion. In that scene, his shield number is clearly visible: 0231. He is temporarily promoted to commanding officer of the Special Victims Unit following Cragen's temporary reassignment, but is depicted as happily relinquishing control back to him, commenting upon Cragen's return, \"This job sucks.\" He kept his rank, however, as he is still referred to as Sergeant in later episodes. He is temporarily put in charge again when Cragen is suspended after the detectives mishandle a case.\n\nMunch makes a cameo appearance on a fifth season episode of \"The Wire\". Munch can be seen at Kavanaugh's Bar arguing with the bartender over his tab by referencing his experience running a bar (he opened The Waterfront Bar in \"Homicide\"). He appears in \"Unusual Suspects\", the third episode of the fifth season of \"The X-Files\"—the episode is set in 1989, when Munch was still at the Baltimore Police Department.\n\nThough his age is never directly stated on \"Homicide\", a few clues are presented pointing to it. In the episode \"\", Munch talks about his high school years and looks at a yearbook from 1961. In the episode \"\", Munch says: \"Going to high school was no day at the beach for a teenage Jew in the '50s\". Because first grade began at age six and high school ended in 12th grade in Maryland during this time, it is likely Munch was born in 1944, the same year as Belzer. Munch is described, however, as being 48 years old in the 2000 \"SVU\" episode \"\". To be 48 at the time this episode took place, Munch would have been born circa 1951, depending on when his birthday falls. Also noteworthy is a seventh season episode of \"\" in which the ongoing conflict between Munch and Det. Stuart Gharty (Peter Gerety) culminates. After a confrontation inside the Waterfront bar, Gharty asks Munch how old he was in 1970, during the Vietnam War, to which Munch responds \"Eighteen\", putting the year of his birth circa 1951.\n\n\"SVU\" and \"Homicide\" have Munch growing up in different places. In \"Homicide\", he is a native of Maryland and attended high school in Pikesville, which has a large Jewish community. Munch said that he took many field trips to Ft. McHenry as a child, which would likely only happen were he to live in the area. In \"SVU\", however, Munch tells Det. Olivia Benson (Mariska Hargitay) that he grew up on the \"Lower East Side\". Munch also tells Det. Fin Tutuola (Ice-T) that he \"came back from Baltimore\" after his fourth marriage broke up. In \"Homicide\", he says he attended Pikesville High School for four years. His grandfather worked in the garment business. Munch worked with him in the early 1960s.\n\nMunch's childhood was not a happy one. He and his brother were physically abused by their father, who had bipolar disorder. One night, after getting a beating \"for being a wiseass\", Munch told his father that he \"hated his guts\". That was the last thing he ever said to his father before his father committed suicide; for years afterward, he believes that his father's death was his fault. Munch has an uncle, Andrew (Jerry Lewis), who suffers from depressive pseudodementia. Andrew is found by Elliot Stabler (Christopher Meloni) living as a transient in Manhattan, and is subsequently reunited with his nephew. Andrew, however, reacts badly to his antidepressant medication, which triggers a mania that results in his taking a personal vendetta against a suspected rapist/murderer SVU is investigating, eventually killing the man by pushing him in front of a subway train. Andrew refuses to plead insanity and take further medication, and says goodbye to his nephew one last time before being sent to prison. In a deleted scene from the of \"Homicide\", Munch mentions to both Meldrick Lewis (Clark Johnson) and Tim Bayliss (Kyle Secor) that he had an uncle who lived up north but was unsure of what became of him – this is presumably Andrew. Munch is affected by the death of a young girl who lived near him when he was a teenager; he feels guilty for not noticing that she was being abused by her mother, who eventually killed her, despite seeing the girl every day when he came home from school. In the 14th-season \"SVU\" episode \"Twenty-Five Acts\", it is mentioned that Munch's mother is living in a retirement community.\n\nDuring the late 1960s and the early 1970s, he was an occasional reporter and music reviewer for the alternative magazine \"The Paper\". Although he considered himself to be a \"dangerous radical\" due to his left-wing views, conspiracy theories and involvement with anti-Vietnam War protests, the FBI believed that he was a dilettante and posed no threat.\n\nMunch's partner at the start of \"Homicide\" is Stanley Bolander (Ned Beatty), an experienced police detective with more than 20 years under his belt. The two are partners through the show's first three seasons until Bolander is first suspended and then retires. Despite the tremendous amount of grief the two give each other, Munch respects him and counts him as a dear friend.\n\nIn \"SVU\", Munch is first partnered with Brian Cassidy (Dean Winters), whom he thinks of as a kind of younger brother, alternately poking fun at him and imparting (often questionable) advice on life and women. When Cassidy leaves the precinct in 2000, Munch is briefly partnered with Monique Jeffries (Michelle Hurd), but when she too leaves the precinct he is paired with her replacement, Odafin Tutuola (Ice-T). He and Tutuola get off to a rough start, but gradually come to like and respect each other. After Munch is shot by a suspect during a trial, the dialogue he shares with Tutuola in the hospital demonstrates the regard and respect the characters have gained for one another. When Tutuola gets frustrated over a potential witness being unable to testify due to relapsing on heroin, Munch mentions a former partner who took cases that personally, and who eventually committed suicide as a result.\n\nIn \"Homicide\", along with Tim Bayliss (Kyle Secor) and Meldrick Lewis (Clark Johnson), Munch is co-owner of \"The Waterfront\", a bar located across the street from their Baltimore police station. This is referenced in season 5 of \"The Wire\", in episode 7, titled \"Took\". Munch is speaking to a bartender at Kavanaugh's as journalist Augustus Haynes (Clark Johnson) walks in. The camera pans by him as he says the lines, \"Rodney, you can't press a regular for his whole tab. It just isn't done. I used to run a bar, I know how these things work, remember?\" \n\nEven during the severe recession of the late 2000s, Munch talks about wanting to buy a bar again in New York.\n\nIn \"SVU\", Munch takes the Sergeant's exam on a bar bet, passes, and is promoted to that rank. As sergeant, he is called upon to take charge of the unit on a number of occasions when Cragen is relieved of duty. Following the events of the season 15 episode \"Internal Affairs\", Cragen informs Benson that Munch has submitted his retirement papers. Munch officially retires in the episode \"Wonderland Story\", showing up to his retirement party in a white tuxedo as his friends bid him goodbye (it is announced that he will become a special investigator in the DA's office). Tutuola presents him with a going-away gift from the squad, a shadow box containing all the badges he carried as a police officer in both Baltimore and New York. As the episode concludes, Munch is at his desk in the squad room, packing his personal items into a box. He has a brief flashback to \"Gone for Goode\", the \"Homicide\" series premiere, in which he sat at his desk to go through a pile of mug shots. The phone rings, and he answers it \"Homicide, I mean SVU\"; he then puts the caller on hold and leaves with his box.\n\n\n\n\n\"Homicide: Life on the Street\":\n\"Law & Order: SVU\":\n\nThe following are the medals and service awards worn by NYPD Detective Munch, as seen in \"Alternate\".\n\nMunch is Jewish, but once commented that the only thing he and Judaism had in common was that he \"didn't like to work on Saturdays.\" He indicates that he is familiar with Jewish prayers, and eventually says Kaddish at the end of an episode of \"Homicide\" in memory of a Jewish murder victim. He is familiar with common Yiddish words and phrases. Munch interacts with an Orthodox Jewish witness, using one Yiddish word, \"farshteyn\" (\"understand\"), and referring to the twelve Israelite tribes from the Bible. The man remarks that Munch must be Jewish and, consequently, agrees to help him out of a fraternal connection. After the interaction, Munch reciprocates by offering the man a ride back to the Riverdale neighborhood in The Bronx. He identifies his ethnic background as Romanian.\n\nHe has a younger brother named Bernie who owns a funeral parlor; he at one point jokes that he occasionally \"throws him some business\". He mentioned another brother who is in the drywall business. His brother David attended his farewell roast. His cousin, Lee, acts as his accountant—and the accountant for The Waterfront—when he lives in Baltimore.\n\nMunch has been described as a stubborn man who can \"smell a conspiracy at a five-year-old's lemonade stand\". Munch can often be seen lecturing his co-workers on a variety of conspiracy theories, which he views as obvious truths. In the \"SVU\" pilot episode, he rants about a supposed government cover-up in the assassination of John F. Kennedy. However, Munch does not seem to believe all conspiracy theories; in \"The X-Files\" episode \"Unusual Suspects\"—a cross-over episode with \"Homicide\"—Munch dismisses the Lone Gunmen's claims of a government plot to expose Baltimore residents to a hallucinogenic gas.\n\nAt the onset of \"Homicide\", he had been divorced twice, but by the seventh season he had had a total of three ex-wives, until marrying Waterfront bartender Billie Lou Hatfield (Ellen McElduff). Before leaving Baltimore, Munch had divorced Billie Lou, having discovered, after less than one day of marriage, that she has been having an affair with a member of his own precinct. In one episode, a police psychiatrist notes that despite his cynicism regarding marriage, Munch still believes in true love, and is pained by the fact he has not found it.\n\nHe once stated that he and his first wife, Gwen, had sex once after their divorce. Her first on screen appearance is the \"Homicide\" episode \"All Is Bright\", in which she is played by Carol Kane. Gwen shows up at The Waterfront bar to inform Munch her mother has died. As the two catch up, he agrees to arrange for the funeral of Gwen's mother despite the fact that his ex-mother-in-law loathed him and did everything in her power to disrupt her daughter's marriage to him. Near the end of the episode, Munch performs a touching toast to his former mother-in-law in one of the few times his cynical façade slips. Kane next returns as Gwen in \"\",\nthe season 10 finale of \"SVU\", and is portrayed as suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. While working with Lennie Briscoe (Jerry Orbach) in the season four episode of \"Homicide\", \"For God and Country\", a crossover with \"Law & Order\", Munch loses badly to Briscoe in a pool game and learns Briscoe had briefly dated, and had sex with, Gwen. Distraught, he gets drunk and proclaims that he forgives Gwen and still loves her. Despite this, he and Briscoe become quite good friends—their interaction in the two following crossovers between \"Homicide\" and \"Law & Order\", as well as in a crossover between \"Law & Order\" and \"SVU\", is generally friendly (Belzer originally pitched to Dick Wolf that Munch join \"Law & Order\" as Briscoe's new partner, but the role had already been filled by Ed Green, played by Jesse L. Martin).\n\nWhile Munch could never be accused of being sentimental, his cynical façade has occasionally slipped, revealing a deep compassion—especially for children—born from his unhappy childhood. When Munch emerges unscathed from an ambush shooting during a third season episode of \"Homicide\" that leaves three of his colleagues in the hospital, he tries to laugh it off, but he later breaks down in tears. In the second season of \"SVU\", after solving a case dealing with an abusive mother who put her daughter in a coma, Munch tells Benson that when he was in high school, one of his neighbors killed her daughter, and that for years he felt guilty for failing to recognize that the girl needed help.\n\nMunch is a staunch believer in individual rights and occasionally finds that something he has to do in the line of duty goes against his sense of morality. A particularly disturbing experience for him was having to see patients on dialysis have their kidney transplants denied.\n\nIn the third season episode of \"Homicide\", \"Law and Disorder\", Munch is suspected by Detective Tim Bayliss of having murdered Gordon Pratt (Steve Buscemi), the suspect in the shooting of three homicide detectives, including Munch's partner Stanley Bolander. Munch had motive, opportunity, an unconfirmed alibi, and never actually denies killing Pratt, but Bayliss refuses to question Munch further or test his service weapon to determine if it has been fired recently. He closes the case, informing his shift commander that there is insufficient evidence to charge anyone.\n\nMunch is fluent in French. He also has some conversational ability in Russian, Hebrew, Yiddish, Spanish, Greek, and Hungarian.\n\nA 2007 news item notes that the character of Munch \"has slowly disappeared from [\"SVU\"s] plotlines\", and quotes Belzer as saying \"[i]t's mystifying to me,\" admitting his feelings to be \"slightly hurt\". Following season nine, in which Munch appeared in just over half of the episodes, Belzer reiterated his mystification at the development, but also seemed to want to tone it down: \"It's like yanking the tonsils out of the gift horse if I complain too much. I've been lucky over the years [...] \"c'est la vie\": I'm not starving.\"\n\nAlthough \"Homicide\" and \"Law & Order: SVU\" officially share the same continuity, they provide conflicting accounts of Munch's childhood, and \"SVU\" rarely mentions Munch's past as a Baltimore detective. Four regular actors from \"Homicide\" (Peter Gerety, Callie Thorne, Michael Michele, Andre Braugher) and two recurring ones (Clayton LeBouef, Željko Ivanek), whose characters regularly interacted with Munch on that series, have appeared as different, unrelated characters on \"SVU\", sometimes sharing scenes with Munch. In Braugher's first appearance on \"SVU\" as Attorney Bayard Ellis, however, there is an implicit nod towards the shared continuity between the shows when Munch greets Braugher's character as if he knows him. \"There's a glimmer of [recognition],\" as Braugher described the meeting.\n\nThere were three specific examples of \"consistent\" continuity between the two shows, all related to Munch's personal life. One is Munch's amicable divorce from Gwen, who has appeared in episodes of both \"Homicide\" and \"SVU\". \"\" features Munch's temporary return to assist the Baltimore Homicide Unit when his friend and BPD boss – former BPD Lieutenant Al Giardello – has been shot, with dialogue acknowledging that Munch is currently assigned to the Special Victims Unit in New York. The two shows come together for Munch's retirement, when his \"SVU\" party is attended by \"Homicide\" BPD Detective Meldrick Lewis (Clark Johnson) and two ex-Mrs. Munch-es, Gwen and Billie Lou Hatfield (Ellen McElduff), who were both introduced as characters on \"Homicide\".\n\nThe character has spanned over 20 years and 23 seasons of network television. Along with his main cast roles on \"Homicide\" and \"SVU\", Munch has also appeared as a character in other TV series, movies, talk shows, albums and comic books:\n\n\nMunch has become the only fictional character, played by a single actor, to physically appear on 10 different television series. These shows were on five different networks: NBC (\"Homicide: Life on the Street\", \"Law & Order\", \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\", \"Law & Order: Trial by Jury\", and \"30 Rock\"); Fox (\"The X-Files\" and \"Arrested Development\"); UPN (\"The Beat\"); HBO (\"The Wire\") and ABC (\"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\"). Munch has been one of the few television characters to cross genres, appearing not only in crime drama series, but sitcom (\"Arrested Development\"), late night comedy (\"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\") and horror and science fiction (\"The X-Files\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899029", "title": "Hermit's Cave", "text": "Hermit's Cave\n\nThe Hermit's Cave is a heritage-listed complex of stone structures on Scenic Hill on the northeastern outskirts of Griffith, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nMisleadingly called 'The Hermit's Cave', the site in reality comprises a complex of shelters, terraced gardens, exotic plants, water-cisterns, dry-stone walling and linking bridges, stairways and paths that stretch intermittently across more than a kilometre of the escarpment. Made single-handedly by a reclusive Italian migrant, Valerio Ricetti, these structures involved the moving of hundreds of tons of stone and earth, together with the ingenious incorporation of natural features in the landscape.\n\nThe site is recognised for being a rare example of an Australian hermit's domain. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 12 January 2007.\n\nOver the period from around 1929 to 1952 the hermit Valerio Ricetti fashioned an outcrop of rock shelters and rock overhangs on a ridge-top site outside Griffith into his living quarters. The historical archaeological complex includes rock shelters (some modified into cave-like enclosures), dry-stone walling, stone stairways and paths, terraced gardens, water cisterns, remnant plantings, inscriptions and rock murals. Over more than two decades Ricetti developed, utilised and occupied structures along the one-kilometre-long site where he lived in isolated seclusion from 1929 to 1941. He continued to work on the site until 1952, when he returned to Italy, where he died in the same year.\n\nValerio Ricetti was born in north Italy around 1897-98 in Sondalo, a small town in a valley in the Italian Alps, close to the border with Switzerland. In his home region he was apprenticed as a cement and stonemason and gained experience working on road and rail tunnel constructions. With the declining economic situation and impending war in Europe, his uncle encouraged him to migrate to Australia to seek better opportunities. Aged 16 or 17, Ricetti arrived at Port Pirie, South Australia, in October 1914. He worked at Port Pirie for a few months before heading off to Broken Hill where he stayed at the Ceccato boarding house (signed-on as being 18 years old) and obtained work in the mines with Valentino Ceccato and Francesco Bicego. During his time at Broken Hill Ricetti learned to speak English which he spoke well although he retained an accent. Later, Ceccato and Bicego left Broken Hill and came to Griffith. Ricetti continued to work in the mines until 1918 when he left Broken Hill, heartbroken from being spurned by a barmaid he intended to marry. This love affair devastated him and scarred him for the rest of his life.\n\nRicetti travelled to South Australia where he worked at various jobs for several years. His life experiences fed his disillusionment with humanity. With a year's timber-cutting wages in his pocket he departed for Adelaide where he visited a brothel. On leaving he found that he had left his wallet behind, but the bouncer would not allow him back in. He hurled a rock through a window, was chased and ended up in Adelaide Gaol. On release he left for Victoria. In Melbourne he intended to pawn his one remaining possession, a coat, but a passer-by who offered to pawn it for him never returned. He moved on to Burrinjuck, NSW, in 1928. In the decade since he left Broken Hill Ricetti had befriended many people but few of these friendships had lasted long. Leaving Burrinjuck, he set out on his own. For the next twelve months or so Ricetti followed the Murrumbidgee River downstream to the Lachlan River then upstream to Hillston, NSW.\n\nGriffith's newspaper, \"The Area News\", reported in 1977 that \"He finally found work on a riverboat of the period. He later explained that he had been a sailor on the Murray and that his \"ship\" had been the Mary Anne. The Mary Anne was one of the many boats that steamed the Murray, Murrumbidgee and Lachlan, and it would appear that Ricetti was to learn more about life during the period he spent on board her; perhaps something about love, unrequited. On the walls of his cave he etched a brief, pathetic epitaph to those days - two hearts and an anchor\".\n\nRicetti walked along the railway line to Griffith, with no idea of where he was heading. He was searching for a location where he could be on his own. That did not eventuate and he reached in Griffith in 1929.\n\nArriving on the outskirts of Griffith, a sudden rainstorm drove him to seek shelter on Scenic Hill. Next day he explored the area. About a quarter of the way down from the hilltop, he found a huge overhanging rock which was dry underneath. Close by he saw two reservoirs full of water and fruit and vegetable farms at the foot of the hill. To the west was the town rubbish dump which teemed with rabbits.\n\nTired of travelling, and with no money left, he later recalled saying to himself \"I have found the Garden of Eden\". Ricetti decided to construct a private utopia, by making the cave his permanent home. He scavenged the rubbish dump where he found a half-worn out shovel, a pick head and an axe head. He felled tree branches to make handles for them. He believed himself to be the only Italian in the area and kept entirely to himself. In reality, his old compatriots Ceccato and Bicego from Broken Hill had settled nearby and increasing numbers of Italian migrants were settling the area.\n\nRicetti cleared and decorated the caves, creating massive stone galleries and pathways, cliff-side gardens and floral painted rock walls. He worked at night and early in the morning, to remain unseen, eventually moving hundreds of tonnes of rock. Digging under the huge rock, the earth that he threw out rolled down the steep hillside. So he set about building a stone retaining wall. As it was gradually back-filled, he increased the retaining wall height and length. Finally it reached 9 metres long and 2.4 metres high. This gave him a level surface of 2.7 to 3.7 metres outside the cave. Portions on either side of the rock were closed off with stones and clay mortar leaving an opening just over 1 metre wide and 2 metres high to enter the cave.\n\nOutside he planted flowers on both sides of a path that led to the top of the retaining wall. Turning right, he then followed along the top of the wall for about 6 metres where he had made a pathway a little over half a metre wide that led to and from the cave.\n\nUnder the lookout, some 36 metres to the right, is a formation of three high rocks in a half circle. The centre one is fashioned by nature as a dome. In front of these rocks he built a stone retaining wall about 1.5 metres high and 4.5 metres long. This he filled with earth to level it, and then he planted more flowers. He called it his \"shrine\".\n\nFurther west he found an area that was partly surrounded by a sheer wall of rocks jutting out from the sloping hill. He made flower beds with pathways leading from one bed to another. On the sloping side he built small stone retaining walls. Near a corner of this complex were four large rocks, joined together front and back, with one either side forming a central open space about 3 metres in diameter. The top was open. On the garden side was a hole about a metre deep that he had to crawl through to get inside. Ricetti dug down in front of the hole to make it large enough to walk through, but just over half a metre down he found rock. At this level he dug inwards, carrying the soil up and forming more flowerbeds. At the centre of this \"room\" was a rock a little over half a metre high and too large to move. So with stone and clay mortar he shaped it into a table. At the entrance he made a stairway so he could walk down to the cave. For the top he laid thin poles across like a lattice, planting grapevines and wisteria to form a canopy.\n\nClose to these gardens he had a couple of places to hide when people came. These places were not developed in any prominent way. But over the other side of the hill, some 180 metres from the main cave, he built a stone walled circular cave amongst shrubs, around a large tree with a peephole which afforded him another place to hide when people appeared.\n\nIn 1935 Ricetti fell off some rocks, breaking his leg and badly bruising his ribs. A passing swagman found him and notified an ambulance that took Ricetti to hospital where the Government Medical Officer, Dr E.W. Burrell, attended to him. He became a celebrity when the enormity of his work on Scenic Hill was discovered. During Ricetti's hospitalisation Wade Shire Council came to his assistance, resolving 'to attend to and maintain the gardens during the hermit's indisposition. Councillor Lenehan stated that the recluse, by vast labour, had added considerably to the interest of Griffith outlook and it was up to the Council to do something for him.'\n\nAfter leaving hospital Ricetti returned to his reclusive existence. Anxious to pay Dr Burrell for his treatment, however, Ricetti slipped into town at night and worked in the doctor's garden. After a few visits the doctor caught him and explained to Ricetti that payment was made to him by the Government. A friendship grew between the two, which Ricetti valued greatly. Dr Burrell would visit Ricetti regularly at the cave and leave boxes with useful items such as clothes and shoes.\n\nIn 1937 a Mr Agostini wandered up the hill one night and came face to face with Ricetti. In conversation the names Ceccato and Bicego came up and Ricetti commented that he had worked at Broken Hill with people of those names. Agostini informed Ceccato of his contact with Ricetti and the acquaintance between Ceccato, Bicego and Ricetti was renewed.\n\nOn weekends they would pick up Ricetti, and take him to places where he met many people. They would try to coax him to come and live among them, but the hill remained his home. By now Ricetti had become more socialised and did not shy away from people.\n\nDuring World War II Ricetti was interned as an enemy alien. He had allegedly lined one of his caves with newspapers that included reports of Hitler with the swastika prominently displayed (Fenwick 1977: 9 ). He was put to work building roads and instructed his captors on how to improve their road-building methods. After four months he was assessed, declared a deranged person and moved to a mental institution at Orange, NSW. Six months later he was released and sent back to Griffith where the police met him and told him to get a job, find accommodation and not go back to the hill. Asked if he could name someone he gave Valentino Ceccato's name, who agreed to take him in.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1952 Ricetti worked and lived at the Ceccato's, first on Valentino Ceccato's farm until 1948 and then on the farm of Valentino'a son and daughter-in-law, Bruno and Nora Ceccato. From 1943-47 Ricetti worked in the orchards and vineyards alongside Valentino's son, Peter Ceccato, to whom he told stories of his life. But Ricetti was always a loner, working away from others on the farm and sleeping in the pruning shed. He was troubled by visions and obsessed with his cave: \"Disturbing him also was an illusion - a \"man and woman in the sky\". Very real to him, they towered above him, demanding that he do more and more work.\" By all accounts these visions stemmed from his disastrous love affair in Broken Hill. Ricetti spent as much time as possible at his cave where he stuffed his earnings from Ceccato into clefts in the rocks before Ceccato opened a bank account into which he paid Ricetti's wages direct (Fenwick 1977: 9 ).\n\nIn May 1952 Ricetti was in bad health and used the 1400 pounds he had amassed in wages to return to Italy and his brother, with whom he had lost contact. He clearly intended to return as he bought a return ticket and left his savings in the bank. But in November 1952 Bruno Ceccato received notice from the Municipality of Sondrio Vatellina that Ricetti had died\n\nThere is very little documentation on Valerio Ricetti's life in Australia and it is almost exclusively confined to records of his internment, dated 1942-45, held by National Archives Australia. Much of the information contained in these records is in the form of Ricetti's answers to a Military Police Questionnaire prior to his internment in 1942. But very little of this information provided by Ricetti can be substantiated by other documents.\n\nAdditionally, a photocopy of an employee record for BHP mines was obtained by both J Bicego and J Bugno.\n\nPhotocopies of most documents are reproduced in Bobby Caillard, \"Recovering the Lost Landscape of Valeri Ricetti: the archaeology of an individual\", BA (Hons) thesis, University of Sydney, 2005: Vol 2, 1-30.\n\nAdditional enquiries were undertaken by the Heritage Office with National Archives Australia (NAA); State Record Offices in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales; Glenside Campus (formerly Parkside Lunatic Asylum), Adelaide and Griffith Base Hospital, NSW.\n\nThere is no record of Ricetti's date of birth. In 1942 it is recorded as 12 March 1897 and also as 12 March 1903. The latter date is likely incorrect as Ricetti would have been only 11 or 12 years old on arrival in Australia.\n\nRicetti's arrival date and port of entry into Australia cannot be verified. In 1942 he reports that he arrived in 1914 at Adelaide, date and ship's name unknown, that he paid his own fare and that he had no family or friends in Australia on arrival. But there is no record of his entry into a South Australian port as either a passenger, crew member or ship's deserter over a wide date range around 1914. Neither is he recorded as a passenger entering through a port in Western Australia or Victoria over an equally wide date range. Passenger shipping arrivals into Sydney for this period are not indexed, therefore were not searched (Heritage Office pers. comm. 2006: NAA Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne; State Records SA, NSW; Public Record Office Victoria).\n\nOn arrival in Australia, Ricetti claims to have spent \"about one year in a mental hospital in South Australia, after which he went to Alice Springs and on to the Northern Territory\". One month later Ricetti claims that he worked in the Broken Hill mines from 1914–17 and on the railways at Grafton, NSW, from 1917-21 after which he came to Griffith where he was employed by various Italian farmers for a few days at a time. The records from 1942 also note Ricetti's two court appearances in the period before his arrival in Griffith: at Adelaide on 7 October 1919 for a breach of the War Precautions Act (Aliens) (offence unspecified), fined five pounds or one month's hard labour and at Barham, NSW, on 14 October 1927 for stealing, fined ten pounds or two months hard labour. The same records note that Ricetti claimed to have left his passport at the Adelaide Police Station but that enquiries failed to confirm this and that examination of his finger prints revealed that Ricetti was also known in Adelaide as Frank Pullen and Frank Muler.\n\nOf these claims, only Ricetti's employment at the Broken Hill mines in 1917, his 1927 fine for stealing and a possible gaol sentence in Adelaide in 1919 can be substantiated in the documentary record.\n\nRecords of the former Parkside Lunatic Asylum, Adelaide (the only such institution in South Australia at that time) for the period 1914-20 reveal no entries under various possible spellings of Valerio Ricetti or his two aliases.\n\nRicetti's employment at Broken Hill mines can be verified for only 9 days, 17 to 26 May 1917, after which date he left. The record shows that he resided at Eyre St, South Broken Hill which was the Ceccato boarding house at 305 Eyre Street. He is recorded as Vito Ricetti and his age given as 22 years (instead of 20 years), his age probably falsified to gain employment.\n\nThe Adelaide Register of Prisoners has no record for Valerio Ricetti but has two entries for Franz Recitti in 1919 and 1920. The related documents have not been sighted by the Heritage Office but these entries may tally with one of Ricetti's aliases and relate to either his 1919 breach of War Precautions or the Adelaide brothel offence related by Peter Ceccato(Heritage Office pers. comm. 2006: State Records SA).\n\nThere is no record of Ricetti working on the railways at Grafton between 1917 and 1921 (Heritage Office pers. comm. 2006: NSW State Records).\n\nThe Police Charges and Summons Book, 1924-28 for Barham, NSW, (on the Murray River) records that Ricetti pleaded guilty on 14 October 1927 to stealing 40 dozen oranges for which he was fined 10 pounds in default of two months hard labour in Deniliquin Gaol (Charles Sturt University, NSW, Regional Archives).\n\nDuring World War II, \"enemy aliens\" resident in Australia were required to register under National Security (Aliens Control) Regulations, to report to the police station each week and to carry an identify card at all time to avoid arrest (Dalton & Polkinghorne 1990: 845). Ricetti's internment record and associated documents held by the NAA confirm his internment as an enemy alien between May 1942 and December 1943. The documents also reveal the difference in assessment of Ricetti the individual by the local and state police services.\n\nRicetti was arrested by Griffith Police on 4 March 1942 for failing to register as an alien and to report to police. Ricetti's statement that he was unaware of the requirement to register was accepted by the local police. He was charged with \"being deemed insane and found wandering at large\" but was discharged five days later following examination by Dr Burrell (who had attended him in Griffith Hospital in 1935) who pronounced him \"completely harmless and therefor (sic) not a subject for medical attention in an institution\".\n\nIn his reports to the Commissioner of Police, Sydney, the Officer-in-Charge of Griffith Police noted that Ricetti spoke German, French and Italian quite fluently. He commented on Ricetti's residence on Scenic Hill, his \"considerable skill in stonework\", and his work \"to beautify the hill\" which Ricetti had asserted to him to be \"his mission in life\" The officer noted that Ricetti had \"long been regarded as an eccentric\" and the \"difficulty is experienced in getting anything like a coherent story from him\". He concluded that Ricetti was a \"harmless mental deficient who lives the life of a hermit\" and that it was not proposed to begin proceedings against him.\n\nMilitary Police Intelligence, Sydney, however, thought otherwise. They required Ricetti's completion of a four-page questionnaire and a search of his premises for \"literature of subversive or disloyal nature\" or \"prohibited possessions\". The search carried out on 10 April 1942 by Griffith Police found nothing.\n\nThe questionnaire appears to have been completed in two stages with handwritten entries by Griffith Police and later, typed entries (that include Ricetti's court appearances) probably entered by Military Police Intelligence in Sydney. These typed entries give a more critical assessment of Ricetti. They comment that Ricetti resides \"in the highest and most secluded locality in the District ... about a mile from the various petrol depots, electricity substations and water channels in the Irrigation Area\" and that he \"is known to wander about at night\". The entry continues that Ricetti \"is regarded with a good deal of suspicion\"—a statement that does not square with Griffith Police's assessment of Ricetti as \"harmless\" and \"eccentric\"—and concludes \"We are of the opinion that this alien should be interned.\".\n\nRicetti was arrested on 3 May 1942 on Scenic Hall and removed to the Liverpool internment camp (south-west of Sydney), from where he was transferred to Cowra in July 1942. Records show he was released from Camp 12, Cowra, on 16 December 1942 but also transferred from Cowra to Loveday internment camp, SA, on 21 April 1943. One account suggests Ricetti was moved during his internment to a mental institution in Orange, NSW, for treatment. However, there is no record for that period of Ricetti being admitted to Bloomfield Hospital, Orange (at that time the only mental institution in Orange).\n\nRicetti was released from Loveday on 5 December 1943 and taken to Sydney, where he gave his new place of abode as Farm 219 Yoogali, Griffith (Valentino and Elizabeth Ceccato's farm). A year later (30 November 1944) Ricetti notified his change of abode from Farm 219 Yoogali to Scenic Hill, Griffith. This would indicate the earliest official acceptance of his occupation of this Crown Reserve as his place of abode, even though he is remembered as living on the Ceccato farm at that time.\n\nRicetti's departure from Sydney cannot be confirmed as NSW passenger shipping lists for 1952 are not indexed and therefore were not searched.\n\nThe absence of documentary verification for much of Ricetti's story can be at least partly explained by the loss or destruction of many records over time.\n\nRicetti's experience aligns with European traditions of hermitism that are not essentially religious in origin whereby an individual makes a conscious (rather than an enforced) choice to remove himself or herself from society, often after a long period of solitary wandering (Ricetti trekked on foot for a decade from Adelaide through north Victoria and southern NSW to Griffith). Ricetti's choice of landscape conforms to many European hermit dwellings. Caves are frequently chosen, particularly those located on steep hillsides or in mountains. In this respect Ricetti would have drawn on his Italian upbringing in a mountain valley of north Italy in making his choice of dwelling on the escarpment of the southern edge of the McPherson Range—a prominent ridge top location in the predominantly flat Riverina Plain. Spiritual iconography is common even among hermits living outside a recognised religious tradition.\n\nNorth Italian cultural influences can be seen in Ricetti's use of:\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is a collection of rock shelters and rock overhangs (several of which have been modified by Ricetti to create cave-like enclosures) with elaborate stoneworks and earthworks created by Ricetti, all of which are located along a long, narrow ridge top site outside Griffith. Ricetti's work is over more than one kilometre along the south-eastern face of Scenic Hill which is a escarpment on the southern-most part of the McPherson Range. Scenic Hill is now adjacent to the western edge of the Collina residential suburb. The southern and northern edges of the site are defined by Ricetti's hide-outs constructed in rocky outcrops. The western perimeter is currently defined by the road reserve boundary of Scenic Drive although there are possibly remnants of other constructions west and north-west of this road. The area of the nominated site comprises 16.16 ha with a length of 1150 m and varying widths of approximately 120 to 190m.\n\nThe archaeological remains of the site are located in discrete areas along the length of the site across a distance of over one kilometre. From south-east to north-west these remains are grouped as follows:\n\n\n\nRock shelter containing:\nThe small size of the shelter and absence of rock inscriptions and rock murals suggests this was a short-term dwelling used by Ricetti before he constructed and moved into the second, more substantial dwelling.\n\nThis dwelling is associated with two gardens, three cisterns, a rock shelter popularly known as \"La Scala\" (Opera House) and its inscriptions. It is recorded in historical photographs and is remembered to have been built and occupied before the third dwelling.\n\n\"A) Rock Shelter containing:\"\n\n\"B) Gardens\"\nThe largest and most complex zone of the site being 60 metres long and 35 metres wide. Located along the base of a cliff face below the ridge top with a drop in level of 10 metres.\n\n\"C) Cisterns\"\n\n\"D) Natural Amphitheatre-Shaped Rock Shelter featuring:\"\ni) Rock shelter popularly known as 'La Scala' (or the 'Opera House')\nii) Rock inscriptions at 'La Scala':\n\nRock inscriptions occur in three areas.\n\na) The lower rock gallery is at the base of the cliff and contains a mixture of Christian and other symbols:\nb) Partly up the rock face, near the stone stair to the \"La Scala\" rock shelf, is the date 1918 and initials RV ( Valerio Ricetti's, back to front). This date predates Ricetti's known arrival in the area.\n\nc) Inscription on a rock floor of later date is (also predates Ricetti's arrival).\n\n\"E) Two Stone Stairs\"\n\n\nThis dwelling is the best-known and best-maintained of Ricetti's works. It is associated with other structures that are popularly known as \"Kitchen\", \"Gun Post\", \"Art Gallery\", \"Chapel\", stone stair and \"The Cliffs Cave\" inscription.\n\n\"A) Rock Shelter containing:\"\n\n\"B) 'Gun Post\"'\n\nA stone earthwork resembling a small fortification. Historical photographs show a gang plank bridge connecting it to the third dwelling. No evidence of a real defensive purpose has been found, but it appears to have been used by Ricetti to monitor his surroundings.\n\n\"C) 'Art Gallery\"'\n\nA separate chamber connected to the third dwelling. This was remembered to contain a cinema poster of King Kong.\n\n\"D) 'Chapel\"'\n\n\n\"E) Stone Stair\"\n\n90-step remnant of stone stair constructed by Ricetti.\n\n\"F) \"The Cliffs Cave\" Inscription\"\n\nA historic inscription (predating Ricetti's occupation) reads \"H.M. Alf. Irv. Driver The Cliffs Born Nov. 21/-70\". Alf Driver was the pioneer selector of the local property, The Cliffs. The inscription is chiselled in elegant, cursive script into the floor of the rock shelter which is located near a hazardous rock ledge that is reached by a narrow passage between two boulders. From the rock shelter there is a magnificent 180 degree view of the Riverina Plain and the slopes of the hill below. The site clearly has a larger and previous history of use by settlers and travellers and probably an even older Aboriginal association.\n\nA narrow, rectangular shelter with two built walls, it is well concealed at the foot of a sheer rock face. Located about 100 metres north-east of the third dwelling, it is connected by pathways to the third dwelling, ridge top and North Rock Shelter (2).\n\nDefining the northern limits of the Hermit's Cave Complex, it is located about 100 metres north-east of North Rock Shelter (1):\n\nThis site is known through archival photographs and supported by oral history although no physical evidence of the structure has been found. Its stone structures were probably dismantled for use in gardens. Its location has been given as 'just to the west of the track [Scenic Drive] about 100-200 yards in on the flat, north-north-west of the cave's old entrance, north of the look-out'.\n\nArchival photographs indicate a worked stone structure with large, smooth-finished rectangular blocks framing a wooden doorway with jambs and curved lintel of \"wilga timber\". The structure was a small room built around a hollow wilga tree at the base of which Ricetti had built a fireplace so that the tree could serve as a chimney. The door and a peephole allowed Ricetti to view the approaches from all sides. Ricetti used the structure as both a kitchen and a hide-out but abandoned it because of visitors or vandals.\n\nThe gardens were reported to be in a fair condition as at 19 June 2006, although erosion of clay mortar supporting the stone masonry work on the retaining walls is a concern. Erosion is equally a concern on the retaining walls to the \"Chapel\". Graffiti is a concern, with graffiti damage to some of Ricetti's original rock art.\n\nSome of the staircases are still in a pristine condition. Taking into account the nature of the rudimentary construction, the site is remarkably intact.\n\nThe site has considerable archaeological potential. There are possibly remnants of constructions to the west and north-west of Scenic Drive (outside the nominated curtilage) but their locations are unknown.\n\nThe site retains most of its original design and material. Much of the original stonewalling is intact. It has suffered some damage due to graffiti, vandalism and erosion of original material.\n\nThe landscape has been modified on several occasions between the 1970s and 1990s. The most prominent modifications ( by Council) are the Sir Dudley de Chair look-out area above the \"Chapel\" and a steel hand-rail along the stairs from the lookout to the \"Chapel\" together with work undertaken by the Apex Club in the 1970s, being the construction of a 60-step stone stair from the lookout to the \"Chapel\". Apex have also attempted to reconstruct part of the \"Main Cave\". Apex, however, used cement mortar, which deviated from Ricetti's utilisation of clay-mortar and dry-stone techniques.\n\nThe cultural landscape and historical archaeological complex known as the Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance as a rare example in New South Wales of a documented, extensive and relatively intact complex of recluse dwellings that is an outstanding twentieth century archaeological site containing rare examples of rock art, historic graffiti, numerous stone structures, earthworks and remnant cultivation.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has multicultural heritage values that constitute material evidence of the response of one individual, the Italian migrant Valerio Ricetti, to the impact of migration in the period after World War 1. The site documents Ricetti's resourcefulness and skill and demonstrates a rare interpretation and integration of natural landscape and materials to create not just a shelter but, over time, an elaborate complex comprising hide-outs, a lookout and modified cave-like enclosures supplemented by retaining stone walls, linking bridges, stone stairways, paths and earthworks with terraced gardens, remnant plantings and water cisterns.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex illustrates a European tradition of hermitism that is rarely found in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has outstanding educational, interpretative and research potential as a resource for the study of historical archaeology and ethnic history.\n\nHermit's Cave Complex was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 12 January 2007 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance for its capacity to demonstrate a historical pattern of migration experiences in material form. Ricetti's story of a young, non English-speaking migrant with no family or friendship networks in Australia is significant for the individuality of his response (in an Australian context) to the pressures and opportunities of migration.\n\nRicetti's retreat from human interraction was marked initially by a decade of aimless solitary trekking around inland southern New South Wales and adjacent parts of Victoria and South Australia that ended with his decision to set down roots, build a retreat and live off the land in seclusion when he sighted the rocky ridge top of Scenic Hill on the outskirts of Griffith.\n\nOver a 23-year period Ricetti did more than merely construct a habitable shelter on the ridge top. He invested a vast amount of time and physical labour in considerably modifying the landscape to suit his purposes and to create an aesthetically pleasing environment. He backfilled a total area of 505 square metres to create terraces for cultivation on the steep slopes of the escarpment. The soil in the cultivated areas has been identified as fine and pebble-free in an otherwise stony environment which indicates a sieving process (Ricetti could access and adapt materials located on the town dump nearby). The terraces were planted with a variety of edible and ornamental plants which demonstrates aesthetic as well as practical values. Ricetti collected, shifted, cut and placed thousands of cubic metres of stone to create the series of retaining walls around the ten identified terrraces and the extensive stairways that link the elements of the site.\n\nThe plantings have been identified as including grape vines, fig, olive and stone-fruit trees. These take several years to fruit which would indicate Ricetti viewed this cultivation as long term investment. Other plantings such as tomato, passion-fruit vines, sweet peas and lettuce would have required intensive care and nurturing in Griffith's semi-arid climate, evidenced by Ricetti's construction of water cisterns.\n\nThis level of activity and attention demonstrates that Ricetti valued his dwelling with a high degree of both physical and emotional investment as a permanent home and a long-term project.\n\nOral history indicates he was driven by \"visions\" to work on his project. Ricetti's response can perhaps be understood in the context of European traditions of hermitism, especially in the Alpine regions of northern Italy where his choice of landscape echoes that of many European hermit dwellings. North Italian cultural influences can be seen in Ricetti's use of :\n\nRicetti's is an important story in the narratives of \"difference\" or \"the other\", not only for his response to society but also for society's response to him. At the local level the community understands his \"difference\" and values his work on Scenic Hill: his hospitalisation engenders community support during his absence and, in World War II, the local police consider him no threat and his work to be valuable. At the impersonal level of state jurisdiction, however, his \"difference\" is viewed unfavourably. He is demonised for his nationality and nonconformity and interned as an enemy alien, suspicions compounded by his 14 years of social alienation. These distinctions may reflect wider patterns in wartime internment processes.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a person, or group of persons, of importance of cultural or natural history of New South Wales's history.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is of local significance for its association with the extensively documented life of Valerio Ricetti, the subject of local folklore as the \"hermit\" of Scenic Hill.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is significant at state level as an example of multicultural heritage and as an aesthetically distinctive cultural landscape. It demonstrates through its landmark qualities an individual's adaptation of the landscape and natural materials to provide shelter, food and an aesthetically pleasing environment as a response to social dislocation and isolation. As such it is in the tradition of European ascetic/hermit retreat dwellings created to provide for seclusion from society.\n\nThe landmark qualities of the Hermit's Cave Complex align with European traditions of hermitism that are not essentially religious in origin. Ricetti's choice of landscape conforms to many European hermit dwellings. Caves are frequently chosen, particularly those located on steep hillsides or on mountains. In this respect Ricetti would have drawn on his Italian upbringing in a mountain valley of north Italy in making his choice of dwelling the escarpment of the southern edge of the McPherson Range—a prominent ridge-top location in the predominantly flat Riverina Plain.\n\nSpiritual iconography is common even among hermits living outside a recognised religious tradition. Ricetti's work reflects Italian hermit traditions of painting and inscribing important images and texts on cave walls.\n\nNorth Italian cultural influences can be seen in Ricetti's creative and technical achievements, specifically in his:\n\nThe site is a popular place for meditative walks, in a setting reminiscent of ancient European archaeological monuments. The stonework and gardens recall the stone structures and intensively modified rural landscapes of northern Italy.\n\nThe place has strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has social significance at the local level for the Griffith community, and in particular the Italian community of Griffith and the surrounding Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, as an important element of local folklore.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is of state significance as an outstanding example of a twentieth century historical archaeological site that is suitable for further research.\nIt has outstanding educational, interpretative and research potential as a resource for the study of historical archaeology, multicultural heritage and migration history:\n\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nOutstanding level of rarity. The Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance as a rare, documented example of a known hermit dwelling and a document of recluse living, especially in terms of the extent and complex nature of the site.\nSome of the known examples of hermit and/or cave dwellings evidence some construction techniques similar to Ricetti's, such as dry stone walling, some terracing and water provision. But these examples are either on a considerably smaller scale, are evidence of community activity or are constructions by squatters who were not hermits.\nThe known examples of cave dwellings appear to be linked to squatting, mainly in the 1930s depression. None of these examples show similar evidence of the extent and complexity of Ricetti's construction works at the Hermit's Cave Complex.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.\n\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex has state significance for being representative in its physical forms of some aspects of the small number of known examples of recluse living in New South Wales, most of which are in the Sydney region.\nEnquiries have revealed a number of previously occupied caves in New South Wales that reflect either depression era occupation, squatting by individuals who are not necessarily hermits, or more elaborate constructions by communities of fringe dwellers.\nMany cave shelters throughout the national parks that flank Sydney --- the Royal to the south, the Blue Mountains to the west and Kuring-gai Chase to the north --- were depression-era dwellings of the 1930s, such as the former fishermen's caves at Cape Solander (Botany Bay), the caves in the Domain in the city, and Poet's Cave in Lane Cove National Park, Sydney, that was inhabited by a hermit who was also believed to be responsible for a biblical inscription on a rock in the park.\nIn north-western New South Wales caves were occupied at Lightening Ridge and in the Warrumbungle Ranges, the latter reputedly used by cattle duffers (dates unknown).\nOther \"hermit-type\" dwellings like the Crater Cove huts on Sydney Harbour and huts along the Hawkesbury River grew in popularity in the 1930s depression but originated earlier and continued their existence later as communities of fringe dwellers. The Crater Cove huts were first constructed by squatters during the 1920s in the Middle Harbour bushland and remained inhabited until 1988. They were built on the low cliffs and wide rock platforms facing the harbour with water tanks carved into the rock, stone built chimneys, paths and edging. A group of Hawkesbury River huts (with boat access only) were occupied by one family group and included wells, terracing of the ridges, gardens, extensive dry stone walling and linking pathways.\nA large and impressive two-storey, Swiss chalet style dwelling was constructed by a squatter over a 40-year period from the 1920s at Hungry Beach in Kuring-gai Chase National Park. The building had circular stone walls, its own water supply, polished concrete floors and all fixed furniture (sofas, kitchen benches, cupbords, wardrobes etc) was built of polished ferrocement. During World War II it was occupied by the United States military. The builder was not a hermit and he sourced (and paid for) building materials that he brought in by barge from Sydney. The building was reputedly demolished in 1969 while the occupant (then in his eighties) was hospitalised.\nThe Hermit's Cave Complex is representative of some of these construction techniques as a class or type of item and is the finest known example of its type.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899033", "title": "Clime", "text": "Clime\n\nThe climes (singular \"clime\"; also \"clima\", plural \"climata\", from Greek κλίμα \"klima\", plural κλίματα \"klimata\", meaning \"inclination\" or \"slope\") in classical Greco-Roman geography and astronomy were the divisions of the inhabited portion of the spherical Earth by geographic latitude. \nStarting with Aristotle (\"Meteorology\" 2.5,362a32), the Earth was divided into five zones, assuming two \"frigid\" climes (the arctic and antarctic) around the poles, an uninhabitable \"torrid\" clime near the equator, and two \"temperate\" climes between the frigid and the torrid ones.\nDifferent lists of climata were in use in Hellenistic and Roman time. Claudius Ptolemy was the first ancient scientist known to have devised the so-called system of seven climes (Almagest 2.12) which, due to his authority, became one of the canonical elements of late antique, medieval European and Arab geography. In Medieval Europe, the climes for 15 and 18 hours were used to calculate the changing length of daylight through the year.\n\nThe modern concept of climate and the related term are derived from the historical concept of \"climata\".\n\nPtolemy gives a list of parallels, starting with the equator, and proceeding north at intervals, chosen so that the longest day (summer solstice) increases in steps of a quarter of an hour from 12 hours at the equator to 18 hours at 58° N, and then, in larger steps, to 24 hours at the arctic circle.\n\nBut for the purposes of his geographical tables, Ptolemy reduces this list to eleven parallels, dividing the area between the equator and 54°1' N into ten segments, at half-hour intervals reaching from 12 hours to 17 hours. Even later in his work, he reduces this to seven parallels, reaching from 16°27' N (13 hours) to 48°32' N (16 hours).\n\nPtolemy's system of seven climes was primarily adopted in Arabo-Persian astronomy, by authors such as al-Biruni and al-Idrisi, and eventually by al-Razi, the author of the 16th-century \"haft iqlīm\" (\"seven climes\"), while in Europe, Aristotle's system of five climes was more successful. This view dominated in medieval Europe, and existence and inhabitability of the Southern temperate zone, the antipodes, was a matter of dispute.\n\nTo identify the parallels delineating his climes, Ptolemy gives a geographical location through which they pass. The following is a list of the 33 parallels between the equator and the polar circle (39 parallels between the equator and the pole:\n) of the full system of climes; the reduced system of seven climes is indicated by additional numbers in brackets (note that the latitudes are the ones given by Ptolemy, not the modern exact values):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899058", "title": "Histamine H3 receptor", "text": "Histamine H3 receptor\n\nHistamine H receptors are expressed in the central nervous system and to a lesser extent the peripheral nervous system, where they act as autoreceptors in presynaptic histaminergic neurons, and also control histamine turnover by feedback inhibition of histamine synthesis and release. The H receptor has also been shown to presynaptically inhibit the release of a number of other neurotransmitters (i.e. it acts as an inhibitory heteroreceptor) including, but probably not limited to dopamine, GABA, acetylcholine, noradrenaline, histamine and serotonin.\n\nThe gene sequence for H receptors expresses only about 22% and 20% homology with both H and H receptors respectively.\n\nThere is much interest in the histamine H3 receptor as a potential therapeutic target because of its involvement in the neuronal mechanism behind many cognitive H3R-disorders and especially its location in the central nervous system.\n\n\nLike all histamine receptors, the H receptor is a G-protein coupled receptor. The H receptor is coupled to the G G-protein, so it leads to inhibition of the formation of cAMP. Also, the β and γ subunits interact with N-type voltage gated calcium channels, to reduce action potential mediated influx of calcium and hence reduce neurotransmitter release.\nH receptors function as presynaptic autoreceptors on histamine-containing neurons.\n\nThe diverse expression of H receptors throughout the cortex and subcortex indicates its ability to modulate the release of a large number of neurotransmitters.\n\nH receptors are thought to play a part in the control of satiety.\n\nThere are at least six H receptor isoforms in the human, and more than 20 discovered so far. In rats there have been six Hreceptor subtypes identified so far. Mice also have three reported isoforms. These subtypes all have subtle difference in their pharmacology (and presumably distribution, based on studies in rats) but the exact physiological role of these isoforms is still unclear.\n\nThere are currently no therapeutic products acting as selective agonists for H receptors, although there are several compounds used as research tools which are reasonably selective agonists. Some examples are:\n\n\nThese include:\n\nThe H3-receptor is a promising potential therapeutical target for many (cognitive) disorders that are caused by a histaminergic H3R dysfunction, because it is linked to the central nervous system and its regulation of other neurotransmitters. Examples of such disorders are: sleep disorders (including narcolepsy), Tourette syndrome, Parkinson, OCD, ADHD, ASS and (drug)addictions.\n\nThis receptor has been proposed as a target for treating sleep disorders. The receptor has also been proposed as a target for treating neuropathic pain.\n\nBecause of its ability to modulate other neurotransmitters, H receptor ligands are being investigated for the treatment of numerous neurological conditions, including obesity (because of the histamine/orexinergic system interaction), movement disorders (because of H receptor-modulation of dopamine and GABA in the basal ganglia), schizophrenia and ADHD (again because of dopamine modulation) and research is underway to determine whether H receptor ligands could be useful in modulating wakefulness (because of effects on noradrenaline, glutamate and histamine).\n\nThere is also evidence that the H3-receptor plays an important role in Tourette syndrome. Mouse-models and other research demonstrated that reducing histamine concentration in the H3R causes tics, but adding histamine in the striatum decreases the symptoms. The interaction between histamine (H3-receptor) and dopamine as well as other neurotransmitters is an important underlying mechanism behind the disorder.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899060", "title": "Shvetsov ASh-82", "text": "Shvetsov ASh-82\n\nThe Shvetsov ASh-82 (M-82) is a Soviet 14-cylinder, two-row, air-cooled radial aircraft engine developed from the Shvetsov M-62. The M-62 was the result of development of the M-25, which was a licensed version of the Wright R-1820 Cyclone.\n\nArkadiy Shvetsov re-engineered the Wright Cyclone design, through the OKB-19 design bureau he headed, for Russian aviation engine manufacturing practices and metric dimensions and fasteners, reducing the stroke, dimensions and weight. This allowed the engine to be used in light aircraft, where an American-design Twin Cyclone, of some 930 kg (2,045 lb) weight in \"dry\" condition could not be installed. It entered production in 1940 and saw service in a number of Soviet aircraft. It powered the Tupolev Tu-2 and Pe-8 bombers and the inline engine-powered LaGG-3 was adapted for the ASh-82 producing the famous Lavochkin La-5 fighter and its development, Lavochkin La-7, additionally the Lavochkin La-9 with its Lavochkin La-11 escort variant and Ilyushin Il-14 airliner were created around the engine. Over 70,000 ASh-82s were built. They were built in the 1950s to 1960s era under licence, both in Czechoslovakia (as the M-82) by the Walter (Motorlet) factory in Prague-Jinonice and in the German Democratic Republic by the VEB Industriewerke Karl-Marx-Stadt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899080", "title": "Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention", "text": "Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention\n\nThe Convention concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour, known in short as the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, was adopted by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 1999 as ILO Convention No 182. It is one of eight ILO fundamental conventions.\n\nBy ratifying this Convention No. 182, a country commits itself to taking immediate action to prohibit and eliminate the worst forms of child labour. The Convention is enjoying the fastest pace of ratifications in the ILO's history since 1919.\n\nThe ILO's International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) is responsible for assisting countries in this regard as well as monitoring compliance. One of the methods used by IPEC to assist countries in this regard are Time-bound Programmes.\n\nThe ILO also adopted the Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation No 190 in 1999. This recommendation contains, among others, recommendations on the types of hazards that should be considered for inclusion within a country-based definition of Worst Forms of Hazards faced by Children at Work.\n\nAs of 2018, the convention has been ratified by 186 out of 187 ILO member states. The ILO member state that has not ratified the convention:\n\nIn 2019, and ratified, but the convention is not in effect for them until 2020.\n\nThe convention has also not been extended to several non-metropolitan territories of states that ratified the convention:\nConvention 182 includes forms of child labour, which are \"predefined\" worst forms of child labour. They are also sometimes referred to as \"automatic\" worst forms of child labour.\n\nThe predefined worst forms of child labour are:\n\nThe last category of worst form of child labour is work which by its nature or the circumstances is likely to harm the health, safety or morals of children, or Worst Forms of Hazards faced by Children at Work. Here the Convention recommended that the circumstances should be determined in consultation with organisations of employers and workers within a specific country. The Convention recommends that programmes of action should attend specifically to younger children, the girl child, hidden work situation in which girls are at special risk, and other groups of children with special vulnerabilities or needs. Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation No 190 contains recommendations on the types of hazards that should be considered to be included within a country-based definition of worst form hazards. This could lead to many deaths.\n\nThe worst forms of child labour that should be prohibited in ILO Recommendation No. 190 are:\n\n\nSeveral programs exist (coordinated by the ILO or other UN organisations) to stimulate adherence to the convention:\nThe Special Rapporteur on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography plays a role in the co-ordination of activities\n\n"}
{"id": "1899085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899085", "title": "Covered wagon", "text": "Covered wagon\n\nThe covered wagon was long the dominant form of transport in pre-industrial America. With roots in the heavy Conestoga wagon developed for the rough, undeveloped roads and paths of the colonial East, the covered wagon spread west with American migration. The Conestoga wagon was far too heavy for westward expansion. Typical farm wagons were merely covered for westward expansion. Heavily relied upon along such travel routes as the Great Wagon Road, the Mormon Trail and the Santa Fe and Oregon Trails, covered wagons carried settlers seeking land, gold, and new futures ever further west.\n\nWith its ubiquitous exposure in 20th century media, the covered wagon grew to become an icon of the American West. The fanciful nickname prairie schooner and romantic depiction in wagon trains only served to embellish the legend.\n\nOnce breached, the moderate terrain and fertile land between the Appalachians and the Mississippi was rapidly settled. In the mid-nineteenth century thousands of Americans took a wide variety of farm wagons across the Great Plains from developed parts of the Midwest to places in the West such as California, Oregon, Utah, Colorado, and Montana. Overland migrants typically fitted any sturdy wagon with five or six wooden or metal bows that arched high over the bed. Over this was stretched canvas or similar sturdy cloth, creating the distinctive covered wagon silhouette. \n\n\"Prairie schooner\" is a fanciful name for the covered wagon, drawing on their broad white canvas covers, romantically envisioned as the sails of a ship crossing the sea.\n\nFor \"overlanders\" migrating westward, covered wagons were a more common mode of transportation than wheelbarrow, stagecoach, or train. Oxen were the most common draft animal for pulling covered wagons, although mules and horses were also used. Authors of guidebooks written for emigrants noted that oxen were more reliable, less expensive, and nearly as fast as other options.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899087", "title": "Andarivaadu", "text": "Andarivaadu\n\nAndarivaadu (Man of the Masses) is a 2005 Tollywood action comedy-drama film directed by Srinu Vytla. The film stars Chiranjeevi, Rimi Sen, Tabu, Prakash Raj, and Pradeep Rawat. It has been dubbed in Hindi as \"Ek Aur Himmathwala\". Although it didn't receive critical acclaim, the film was a commercial success at the box office.\n\nGovindarajulu (Chiranjeevi) is a \"mesthri\" (construction worker) who drinks a lot and lives a carefree life. On the other hand, his son Siddartha alias Siddu (Chiranjeevi) is a popular TV show host and more disciplined man — the opposite of his father. Siddu gets Govinda married to Shanti (Tabu) to sober him.\n\nSiddu is in love with Swetha (Rimi Sen), the daughter of a big-time contractor named Veerendra (Prakash Raj). Veerendra happens to be a childhood friend of Govinda but currently dislikes him due to his behaviors and social class. Thus, he agrees to get Swetha married to Siddu but tells Govinda that in order for the marriage to take place, he must distance himself from Siddu, as Veerendra does not like Govinda's influence on Siddu. Govinda, being the loving and caring father that he is, decides to fake kicking Siddu out of the house so that the latter can marry Swetha.\n\nDuring the time of the engagement, though, Siddu breaks it in front of everyone, publicly revealing the condition that Veerendra has given. It is revealed that Govinda's friend had told Siddu about the condition, and it is the sole reason that Siddu was kicked out of the house. Siddu returns to Govinda, and a vengeful Swetha decides to separate the family and have Siddu for herself. She begs Govinda to forgive her and take her as his daughter-in-law, as she had not known about Veerendra's condition.\n\nGovinda says that if Siddu wants her, then he is willing to have her in the house because he holds no grudge and wants Siddu to be happy. Siddu decides that as long as Govinda is happy, he is too, and agrees to marry Swetha. Swetha moves into the house and starts making sketches to create differences between Govinda and Siddu with the help of her cousin-brother Sathi Babu (Sunil), but she fails miserably. The rest of the film is about if she succeeds or not.\n\nMeanwhile, Govinda has differences with a big-time rowdy and contractor named Satti Pehelwan (Pradeep Rawat).\n"}
{"id": "1899088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899088", "title": "Tatura", "text": "Tatura\n\nTatura is a town in the Goulburn Valley region of Victoria, Australia, and is situated within the City of Greater Shepparton local government area, North of the state capital (Melbourne) and West of the regional centre of Shepparton. At the 2016 census, Tatura had a population of 4,669.\n\nWith a large corporate and manufacturing presence within the town, Tatura is a major employer within the Goulburn Valley. Organisations include Tatura Milk Industries, Goulburn-Murray Water's corporate headquarters, Jacobs Engineering Group, Department of Environment and Primary Industries (Victoria), as well as major regional processing plants for multinational corporations such as Unilever and Snow Brand Milk Products.\n\nAttractions include the Cussen Park wetlands, the Wartime Camps, an effluent pond just off the main street and Irrigation Museum.\n\nThe name of the town is an Aboriginal word meaning \"small lagoon.\"\n\nThe Post Office opened on 1 February 1875.\n\nThe Tatura Magistrates' Court closed on 1 January 1990.\n\nSeveral internment camps were set up around Tatura, Rushworth and Murchison (Dhurringile) during World War II. Four of these were for civilians, and three were for prisoners of war. Between 1940 and 1947, there were 10,000 to 13,000 people in the camps at different times.\n\nBefore the war, Britain was home to around 73,000 Germans, who had left Germany due to the rising tensions and the rise of the Nazi regime in the country. Many of these were also young male Germans who had been in schools in Britain before the outbreak of WWII. It was believed that many of these refugees were spies, and they were shipped out of the country, predominantly to Australia (on the HMT \"Dunera\") and Canada.\n\nIn 1941, German Templers were shipped from Palestine and interned for the duration of the war, which led to the establishment of the Temple Society Australia. After arriving in Australia on 25 August 1941, the Templer's established themselves in Camp 3 in Tatura. Because of their previous internment during World War I, they were experienced in living in those conditions, and established a school and a kindergarten, as well as developing work routines to prevent depression. After the War, the majority of Templer families remained in Australia.\n\nIn 1941, Major Julian Layton arrived from England on a mission. Layton, a Jew like many of the Dunera internees, managed to secure the release of many of them if they enlisted in the British or Australian Army. At the end of the war all of the Dunera internees were released.\n\nAmong the more notable internees were the crew of the German auxiliary cruiser \"Kormoran\", taken prisoner following the battle between HMAS \"Sydney\" and the \"Kormoran\". There were also German detainees from the Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran.\n\nThe Tatura German Military Cemetery () is the final resting place of 351 German civilians and servicemen who died during internment in World War I and World War II.\n\nThe Tatura Show is held yearly in March and International Dairy Week (which is the second largest dairy show in the Southern Hemisphere) in January each year attracting over 6,000 exhibitors, vendors and onlookers from Australia as well as overseas.\n\nTatura Hot Bread has won prizes in the Professional Section of The Great Australian Vanilla Slice Triumph in 2006 and again in 2007. The Taste of Tatura Food and Wine Festival is held on the first Sunday in March drawing many of the region's locals.\n\nTatura has many sporting facilities located within the town, including Australian Rules football ovals, Soccer fields, Cricket pitches, Tennis courts, Lawn Bowls greens, a multipurpose Indoor Stadium and the 18-hole Golf course of the Hilltop Golf Club.\nThe town has an Australian Rules football team competing in the Goulburn Valley Football League, the Tatura Bulldogs.\n\nTatura is home to the Tatura Racecourse Reserve, where the Tatura & Shepparton Racing Club Inc hosts a minimum of three full TAB race meetings each season, including the iconic Italian Plate Festival in December - a celebration of the local Italian community and culture - and the Tatura Easter Cup. The Cup day also features the Mark Goring Memorial race, honouring jockey Mark Goring who died of injuries sustained in a fall at the Tatura track in 2003.\n\nAs well as a Western & Quarter Horse arena and Club rooms, the Reserve is an operational Thoroughbred training facility, with grass and sand track, and swimming facilities as well as practice barriers and jumps schooling course. Currently 20 Racing Victoria-licensed trainers are registered to the Tatura Racecourse. In addition to race meetings, the Club also runs regular official trials and jumpouts (unbroadcast trials).\n\nTatura has two primary schools serving both the town and surrounding areas: Tatura Primary School is a public school located South of the town centre, whilst Sacred Heart School is a private school located on the town's main street.\n\nDue to Tatura's close proximity to Shepparton secondary education options include Notre Dame College, Shepparton, Wanganui Park Secondary College, Goulburn Valley Grammar School, Mooroopna Secondary College, Shepparton High School, and McGuire Secondary College.\n\nTatura is located 20 minutes from La Trobe University Shepparton Campus as well as the Goulburn Ovens Institute of TAFE which both offer a range of tertiary and TAFE courses for the Goulburn Valley.\n\nThe main print publications distributed within Tatura include the daily Shepparton News, the Tatura Guardian (released weekly), and the Tatura Bulletin (released monthly).\n\n"}
{"id": "1899094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899094", "title": "Merton, Oxfordshire", "text": "Merton, Oxfordshire\n\nMerton is a village and civil parish near the River Ray, about south of Bicester in Oxfordshire, England. The 2011 Census recorded the parish's population as 424.\n\nIn 1978 a Middle Bronze Age spearhead was found at West End Farm on the northwestern side of the village.\n\nJust before the Norman conquest of England Hacun, a Dane, held the manor of \"Meretone\" and also the nearby manor of Piddington. The toponym is derived from the Old English for a tun, hamlet or settlement by the mere.\n\nThe Domesday Book records that by 1086 Countess Judith of Lens, a niece of William I of England held the manor. Countess Judith was betrothed to Simon I de Senlis but refused to marry him and fled England. William I confiscated her estates and allowed Simon to marry Judith's eldest daughter Maud. Simon received estates including Merton as the honour of Huntingdon.\n\nIn 1152 or 1153 Simon's son Simon II de Senlis, Earl of Huntingdon-Northampton gave Merton to the Knights Templar. In 1185 the manor covered seven hides, making it their largest estate in Oxfordshire. In 1312 Pope Clement V ordered the Templars' dissolution and their English estates were confiscated by Edward II, who granted Merton to the Knights Hospitaller in 1313. In 1540 the Hospitallers were suppressed in the Dissolution of the Monasteries and surrendered Merton to the Crown, which left it in the possession of the Templars' tenant, William Mablyston of Ludgershall, Buckinghamshire.\n\nIn 1554 the Mablystons' lease expired and Robert Doyley of Chiselhampton and his son John acquired the manor. John died in 1593 and his widow Anne married Sir James Harington in 1601. In 1640 Sir James Harington, 3rd Baronet married Katherine, daughter of Sir Edmund Wright, Lord Mayor of London. Sir James was a Member of Parliament from 1646 until 1655 and during the English Civil War he served as a major-general in the Parliamentarian army. After the English Restoration his baronetcy was forfeited for life in 1661 under the Indemnity and Oblivion Act. Sir James fled to the European mainland and died in exile.\n\nSir James' father-in-law had remained a Royalist throughout the Civil War and Commonwealth, which helped Lady Katherine to claim she did not share her husband's politics. In 1662 the Crown granted letters patent placing the estate in trust, and upon Lady Katherine's death in 1675 it passed to her and Sir James' eldest son Sir Edmund Harington, 4th Baronet. The Harington baronets owned Merton until Sir James Harington, 6th Baronet ran up large sporting debts and in 1740 mortgaged Merton to Sir Edward Turner, 2nd Baronet of the neighbouring parish of Ambrosden. Sir James was a Jacobite who supported the Stuart claim to the United Kingdom. In 1747 he joined Charles Edward Stuart in exile and in 1749 Sir Edward Turner (later Page-Turner) obtained Merton by foreclosing the mortgage. The Page-Turner baronets (later Dryden baronets) retained Merton until 1930.\n\nThe Doyleys built the manor house in the latter part of the 16th century. It is thought to have been L-shaped, but after Sir Edward Page-Turner bought the manor in 1749 he had the south wing demolished and the surviving wing turned into a farmhouse. In 1838 the house's oak panelling was sold. In 1860 the house was modernised and its Elizabethan porch, gables, stone roof and mullioned windows were all removed. The house now has sash windows. The original kitchen and stone-arched cellar survive, and the cellar includes a well. A dairy wing was added late in the 19th century. The house's 17th century square, two-storeyed dovecote also survives. The house is now a nursing home.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of Saint Swithun is Decorated Gothic, built early in the 14th century. It has a south aisle, linked with the nave by an arcade of four bays. Late in the 15th century the Perpendicular Gothic clerestory was added to the nave. The chancel windows and one window in the south aisle are also Perpendicular Gothic. The font is much older than the church, dating from late in the 12th century.\n\nSt Swithun's had a north aisle but it was demolished in the 15th or 16th century. Its arcade of three bays was blocked up and remains in the north wall of the nave. The tower had a spire but it became unsafe and in 1796 it was removed.\n\nSt Swithun's most notable monuments are wall-mounted ones in the chancel commemorating John Doyley (died 1593) and his wife, Elizabeth Poole (died 1621) and Richard Harrington (died 1712). The Poole monument has strapwork and Tuscan columns but is significantly mutilated and in want of restoration.\n\nA turret clock for St Swithun's was made late in the 17th century. Its original dial had only an hour hand. In 1867 this was replaced with a new dial that has both hour and minute hands. Some time after 1989 a new turret clock was installed; the 17th century original is now displayed in the nave.\n\nThe Gothic Revival architect Charles Buckeridge restored St Swithun's from 1865 until 1872. St Swithun's had been decorated with mediaeval wall paintings, once brightly coloured but by 1823 described as \"\"dim with age\"\". During the restoration work it was found impossible to remove the layers of whitewash covering them. St Swithun's is a Grade I listed building.\n\nIn the Edwardine Inventory of 1552 St Swithun's had three bells and a Sanctus bell. In 1795 the bell tower had a ring of seven bells but the churchwardens obtained permission to sell five of them to pay for a new lead roof for the church. By the 1950s there were only two bells: one cast by Richard Keene of Woodstock in 1694 and the other cast in 1887.\n\nIn 1565 the Crown sold the advowson and rectory to William Petre, who in 1572 gave both to Exeter College, Oxford. The ecclesiastical parish of Merton is now part of the Benefice of the Ray Valley.\n\nA Congregational chapel was built in 1890. It was still in use for worship in 1953.\n\nThe Knights Templar established a watermill in the parish. The earliest known record of it is from 1156–66.\n\nWest of St Swithun's is a rubblestone tithe barn that may have been built in the 15th century or early 16th century. It has a queen post roof and is thatched. In the late 20th century it was converted into four homes.\n\nThere were small enclosures of land in the parish in the 14th and 16th centuries but an open field system of farming prevailed until 1763. In the 1761 Parliamentary election Sir Edward Turner entered the House of Commons as Member of Parliament for Penryn in Cornwall. In 1762 Sir Edward got Parliament to pass an Inclosure Act for the parish of Merton. This extinguished all common land rights in Merton and assigned most of the land to Sir Edward.\n\nIn 1814 one of the earliest National Schools to be established under the auspices of the National Society for Promoting Religious Education was opened in Merton. A new stone-built school building, complete with lodging for the matron, was completed in 1829. Ownership and management of the school were transferred to the vicar and churchwardens in 1870. The school was enlarged in 1872 and 1893. The number of pupils then declined and in 1913 the school was closed and 12 pupils were transferred to Ambrosden. In 1930 the house and school were sold and became a private home.\n\nMerton used to have a public house, the Plough Inn, whose building is partly Tudor. In the 2000s the owners closed the pub and applied to Cherwell District Council for planning permission to redevelop the site for housing. The council refused the application but the pub remains closed.\n\nSince the Plough's closure the village has held real ale festivals at least once a year in its village hall.\n\nCharlton-on-Otmoor Services bus route 94 provides Merton and neighbouring villages with a Monday to Saturday service between Bicester and Oxford \"via\" Arncott and Islip.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899104", "title": "Staffordshire South", "text": "Staffordshire South\n\nStaffordshire South may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1899106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899106", "title": "Klas Östergren", "text": "Klas Östergren\n\nKlas Östergren (born 20 February 1955) is a Swedish novelist, screenwriter, and translator.\n\nÖstergren succeeded Ulf Linde in seat 11 of the Swedish Academy on 20 December 2014, but he announced on 6 April 2018 that he would no longer participate in the Academy's work. The Academy announced in May 2018 that Östergren and three other members had been allowed to formally resign. He was nominated for the Guldbagge Award for Best Screenplay in 1999, and he received the grand prize bestowed by the country's premier literary society, Samfundet De Nio, in 2005.\n\nÖstergren was born in 1955 on Lilla Essingen in Stockholm. He was the youngest of four siblings. His father was Finnish and his mother was Swedish. He went to secondary school at Södra Latins gymnasium.\n\nKlas Östergren was soon to turn twenty years old when his first novel, \"Attila\", was published in 1975. He gained critical acclaim and high readership five years later with the novel, \"Gentlemen\". As a writer of screenplays and teleplays, he was honored in 1999 when \"Veranda för en tenor\" [\"Waiting for the Tenor\"], the screen treatment (which he co-wrote with Lisa Ohlin) of a short story from \"Med stövlarna på och andra berättelser\", was nominated for the Guldbagge Award for Best Screenplay (Sweden's equivalent of the Academy Award). He is also one of his country's most highly regarded literary translators, having published a Swedish-language version of J. D. Salinger's \"The Catcher in the Rye\" and also having translated a two-volume edition (issued in September 2008) of the plays of Henrik Ibsen.\n\nFrom 1982 to 1989, Klas Östergren was married to Swedish actress, Pernilla Wallgren, who subsequently continued her career using the name Pernilla Östergren. They became the parents of a daughter, Agnes; and following their divorce and Pernilla's marriage to director Bille August, she appeared, using her new professional name, Pernilla August, in two films for which Östergren wrote the screenplays. The first, 1996's \"Jerusalem\", adapted from the novel by Selma Lagerlöf, was directed by her husband, Bille August, and the other, \"Offer och gärningsmän\", was a 1999 miniseries directed for Sweden's national television broadcaster, SVT, by Tomas Alfredson. His second and current wife is Cilla, with whom he has three children, Åke, Gösta, and Märta.\n\nThe 1980 novel \"Gentlemen\" was filmed in 2014 by director Mikael Marcimain.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899109", "title": "Quinlan Terry", "text": "Quinlan Terry\n\nJohn Quinlan Terry CBE (born 24 July 1937 in Hampstead, London, England) is a British architect. He was educated at Bryanston School and the Architectural Association. He was a pupil of architect Raymond Erith, with whom he formed the partnership \"Erith & Terry\".\n\nQuinlan Terry is a well-known representative of New Classical architecture and the favourite architect of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. He has a keen interest in how traditional architecture contributes to the debate on sustainability and has lectured frequently on the subject.\n\nQuinlan Terry continues to practice full time with partners Roger Barrell and Eric Cartwright under the name Quinlan Terry Architects LLP. \n\nTerry works principally in classical Palladian architectural styles. The firm, Quinlan Terry Architects LLP continues the architectural style of the practice which was started by Raymond Erith in 1928, and specialises in high quality traditional building, mostly in classical idioms. The practice is based in Dedham, Essex, and employs 12 staff. A book about the firm's work written by David Watkin, entitled \"Radical Classicism: The Architecture of Quinlan Terry\" (New York: Rizzoli International Publications), was published in 2006.\n\nThe first work by Raymond Erith on which Quinlan Terry had a major role was the new house Kings Waldenbury, Hertfordshire, completed for the Pilkington family in 1971, when new building in a classical manner was deeply unfashionable. During the three-year construction period of the house, Terry kept a diary, published later, in which he bemoaned the modern world and stoically defended his conservative, reformed, evangelical faith.\n\nHis design for the 1992 \"Maitland Robinson Library\" at Downing College, Cambridge, won the Building of the Year Award in 1994. One of his best known works is Brentwood Cathedral in Essex. This is radical extension of a nineteenth century Roman Catholic Gothic revival church is in the English Baroque manner owing much to James Gibbs and Thomas Archer and makes little or no attempt to be in keeping with the older building. Terry's new work has a portico based on the south portico of St Paul's cathedral designed by Sir Christopher Wren. Unusually, all five classical orders of architecture were used and Terry has said in lectures that he views classical architecture as an expression of the divine order.\n\nDuring the 1980s he was also appointed by Margaret Thatcher, then Prime Minister, to renovate the interiors of 10 Downing Street, restored 40 years previously by Raymond Erith, Terry's teacher, after war damage. Terry's work there is more assertive than Erith's. In Gloucestershire, he designed Waverton House, where he used the style made popular by Matthew Brettingham in the late 18th century, featuring a central staircase lit from above, surrounded by rooms on both floors.\n\nIn 1989, he designed a series of three new villas for the Crown Estate Commissioners in Outer Circle in London's Regent's Park. Building in the park was controversial but said to be in the spirit of the Prince Regent's original though unrealised intentions for the park, which was to contain numerous villas for Regency courtiers surrounding a new royal palace. Terry's three new villas have near-identical plans, based on Palladio's Villa Saraceno, but the external elevations vary, showing respectively Gothic, Italian Mannerist and muscular Neo-classical features in the manner of William Chambers. Six villas were eventually built between 1989 and 2002.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Terry designed the restoration of St Helen's Bishopsgate, controversially turning the orientation of the medieval church through 90 degrees, moving or removing some fittings, and reworking its previous Tractarian Anglican layout into a Georgian stripped-back meeting house plan informed by the precepts of Reformation theology, in tune with its current firmly evangelical congregation.\n\nAlso in the 1990s, he designed a castle for the Barclay brothers on their private island of Brecqhou in the Channel Islands.\n\nTerry designed the external envelope of New Margaret Thatcher Infirmary at the Royal Hospital Chelsea, with Steffian Bradley Architects as the lead consultant and planners for the building; a new Georgian Theatre for Downing College Cambridge; new offices, retail and residential development at 264–267 Tottenham Court Road, London; offices and retail at 22 Baker Street, London; and Queen Mother Square, Poundbury; mixed use development Richmond Riverside\n\nHis works in the US include the Abercrombie Residence, a classical mansion based on Marble Hill House, Twickenham, UK. Complete with a \"piano nobile\" approached by an external staircase, it has a pediment supported by Corinthian columns. The house is constructed of Kasota limestone, with Indiana limestone dressings.\n\nTerry's architecture has been championed by David Watkin, who wrote the monograph \"Radical Classicism: The Architecture of Quinlan Terry\" (2006), and by Roger Scruton who called it \"one long breath of fresh air\" in his \"Spectator\" article \"Hail Quinlan Terry: our greatest living architect\".\n\nQuinlan Terry is the single most distinguished and prolific architect at work in the Classical tradition in either Britain or the United States of America. He has attempted more completely than any other architect in Britain to pull the rug from beneath the false certainties of Modernism.<br>– David Watkin \"Radical Classicism: The Architecture of Quinlan Terry\" (2006)\n\nIn 2003 Terry won the Best Modern Classical House 2003, awarded by the British Georgian Group for Ferne House in Wiltshire. In 2005 Terry won the 3rd Annual Driehaus Prize, the most prestigious award for outstanding classical and traditional architects. He holds the Philippe Rothier European Prize for the Reconstruction of the City of Archives d'Architecture Moderne (1982).\n\nHe was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2015 New Year Honours for services to classical architecture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899125", "title": "Touch rugby", "text": "Touch rugby\n\nTouch rugby refers to games derived from rugby football in which players do not tackle each other but instead touch their opponents using their hands on any part of the body, clothing, or the ball.\n\nA formal, competitive variety, known as Touch, developed from rugby league and now exists as a sport in its own right. In addition, touch rugby games are played as training activities for rugby league and rugby union; as safer variants of rugby, particularly in schools and junior clubs, and as an informal social sport.\n\nTouch rugby has a number of differences from the traditional games, including its simplicity (it requires very little equipment or goalposts), its ease of learning, and the decreased likelihood of injury. As a result, it is a popular social game; mixed-gender and women-only games are also very popular in the UK, where Touch Rugby is played in many popular centres around England and Scotland. Touch Rugby League is a growing competition in Brisbane, Australia. Touch rugby is also gaining popularity in the United States. The USA Touch association hosts an annual national championship. In 2019, 27 clubs from cities across the USA registered teams into 6 competitive divisions. The sport is known as \"Touch\" in many parts of the world.\n\nBeach touch is also popular. Social touch games in South Africa are played barefoot, while 1-touch or six down is played with cleats that have no more than 10 studs on each foot.\n\nSince 1988, the Federation of International Touch has organized 9 World Cup championships. Typically, Australia and New Zealand have dominated as champions and runner-ups in each of the now 11 competitive divisions. Every 4 years, a member country is selected to host the tournament. In 2019, the World Cup was hosted in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and welcomed 28 participating nations. The 2023 FIT World Cup host has yet to be announced.\n\nThe mostly popular, codified form of touch rugby is derived from rugby league and features two teams of six players. Played under the auspices of the Federation of International Touch (FIT), it is officially known as Touch, and is also called touch football, particularly in Australia, and sometimes 'six down' or 'sixes' in South Africa. FIT rules have become the most common rules used both in FIT-sanctioned competitions and informal games of touch rugby. A version of the FIT rules known as one touch in South Africa features a change of possession after a single touch rather than the six in the league-derived game.\n\nLeague tag is a semi-contact version of rugby league. It was used initially as a coaching aid to get players new to rugby league in Ireland used to the play-the-ball, retreating to an onside line, and upperbody tackling that stops the ball being passed in the tackle. It was formally codified in 2008 at University College Cork, it allows ball carriers to hold off defenders, and defenders to grab the ball carrier in their bid to touch the ball. Touching the ball effects a tackle\n\nOther versions of touch rugby are not fully codified. For example, as an activity for fitness and skills training, and to reduce the risk of injury, rugby players will sometimes play touch rugby based on modified rugby rules. One common variation is that a fair touch must be below the waist, or, with two hands, or, to encourage rucking, a small non-contact ruck may be formed when a player is \"touched\". The \"touched\" player must fall to the ground as he would if he were tackled, and then two players from the attacking team must \"ruck\" over him within three seconds to keep possession of the ball. A scrum-half then recovers the ball, and play continues.\n\nTouch rugby is often played informally, rather like a pick-up soccer or basketball game. In addition to tackles being replaced by \"touches\", the rules of both rugby codes are simplified, removing elements such as scrums, rucks, mauls, line-outs and kicks.\n\nIn the United States, Touch Rugby is usually played following pre-1967 rugby league rules, minus kicking. Players being touched with two hands must place the ball down or play the ball at the spot of the \"tackle,\" and the defensive team must retreat 5 yards or meters. There is often no tackle count, meaning that almost the only way that the defence can obtain the ball is through offensive mistakes. Whenever an offensive infraction occurs (ball into touch, knock-on, or forward pass), the defence receives a tap-kick at the spot of the infraction. Teams switch sides after each try is scored, and the team scoring the try kicks off from the half point.\n\nUntil 2003/2004 the English RFU in its junior development program called \"The Three Stages of the Rugby Continuum\" encouraged the playing of \"Non-contact/touch rugby\" in its under-eights competition, although now promotes Mini Tag instead.\n\n\n\nNational Associations\nt\n"}
{"id": "1899140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899140", "title": "Australian Certificate of Education", "text": "Australian Certificate of Education\n\nThe Australian Certificate of Education (ACE) is the name of a proposed national senior secondary school certificate to replace the various existing Australian state and territory certificates in the upcoming Australian Curriculum. The scheme was considered by the Australian state and territory education ministers within the Australian Qualifications Framework. \"Credentialling, and related assessment requirements and processes, will remain the responsibility of states and territories\" - quote from the NSW Board of Studies website (which contradicts this proposed ACE).\n\nThe acronym \"ACE\" is already used for other educational purposes in Australia - the Australian College of Educators, Adult and Community Education and Advanced Christian Education.\n\nIn June 2005, the Australian Government commissioned the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER), led by Professor Geoff Masters to investigate and report on models for a nationwide Australian Certificate of Education. The report was published in May 2006.\n\nThe report proposed the creation, in stages, of a national Australian Certificate of Education to replace the current state and territory certificates. It also proposed that the certificate be awarded by state and territory authorities (the ACACA agencies), based on nationally consistent standards set by a national standards body.\n\nThe current state and territory senior secondary school certificates are:\n\nSome schools choose to offer the following equivalents:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899148", "title": "Tunisian Football Federation", "text": "Tunisian Football Federation\n\nThe Tunisian Football Federation (, ) is the governing body of football in Tunisia. It was established in 1957. It became a member in the FIFA in 1960, and in the same year it also became a member in the CAF association. It organises the football league, the Tunisian Ligue Professionnelle 1, the Tunisia national football team and the Tunisia women's national football team. It is based in Tunis.\n\nClubs that have participated in the Division Nationale de Football between 1956 and 2016:\n\n\nSome clubs have used different names.\n\n\nSource: FTF 75 Années de Football/Tunisian FA 75 Years of Football.\n\n¹²\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899153", "title": "Rhonda Sing", "text": "Rhonda Sing\n\nRhonda Ann Sing (February 21, 1961 – July 27, 2001) was a Canadian professional wrestler. After training with Mildred Burke, she wrestled in Japan under the name Monster Ripper. In 1987, she returned to Canada and began working with Stampede Wrestling, where she was their first Stampede Women's Champion. In 1995, she worked in the World Wrestling Federation as the comedic character Bertha Faye, winning the WWF Women's Championship. She also wrestled in World Championship Wrestling to help generate interest in their women's division.\n\nWhile growing up in Calgary, Sing attended numerous Stampede Wrestling events with her mother. She knew she wanted to be a wrestler from a young age and frequently beat up the neighborhood children. As a teenager, Sing approached members of the Hart wrestling family and asked to be trained, but she was rejected as they did not train women wrestlers at the time. Bret Hart, however, claims it had more to do with scheduling conflicts. During a trip to Hawaii in 1978, she saw Japanese women's wrestling on television and decided she wanted to pursue the sport. She later wrote to Mildred Burke, after a friend gave her a magazine with Burke's contact information, and sent her a biography and photo. Shortly thereafter, she joined Burke's training facility in Encino, California.\n\nAfter a few weeks of training with Burke, Sing was scouted by All Japan Women (AJW), despite her inexperience. Sing's debut match in Japan was a tag team match with partner Mami Kumano, defeating the Beauty Pair (Jackie Sato and Maki Ueda) in January 1979. In Japan, she began wrestling under the name Monster Ripper. Although she found adjusting to the Japanese culture difficult, Sing held AJW's title on two occasions and was the first Calgary born wrestler to gain success in Japan. During her time in the company, the Japanese female wrestlers gave her a hard time because they did not like losing to foreigners. Sing also had difficulty because of her youth and inexperience in the ring. Sing, however, was comforted by New Japan Pro Wrestling's Dynamite Kid, who had also trained in Calgary. Sing won the WWWA World Single Championship from Jackie Sato on July 31, 1979. Despite losing the title to Sato six weeks later, she regained it on March 15, 1980. The title was vacated in August 1980.\n\nAfter another stint in Japan, Sing returned to Stampede Wrestling in late 1987 and was renamed Rhonda Singh by Bruce Hart, the owner of the company. There were plans to pair her with Gama Singh, but they never came to fruition. During 1987, she was named their first Women's Champion because she had defeated Wendi Richter prior to returning to Stampede. She held the title until September 22, 1988, when she lost to Chigusa Nagayo.\n\nOver the next few years, Sing once again traveled throughout the world and wrestled for a number of companies, holding several titles. Between 1987 and 1990, Sing worked in Puerto Rico for the World Wrestling Council (WWC), where she held the WWC Women's Championship on five separate occasions by defeating Wendi Richter, Candi Devine, and Sasha in matches for the title.\n. As Monster Ripper on the WWC 18th Anniversary Show (July 6, '91), she faced and beat El Profe on a woman vs man match.\n\nIn 1995, Sing was contacted by the World Wrestling Federation to help their ailing women's division. She, however, was repackaged as Bertha Faye, a comedic character who lived in a trailer park and dated Harvey Wippleman. (in an OWW radio interview Wippleman revealed that the two never got along well) WWF management originally wanted her to have an on-screen feud with Bull Nakano, but there was a change of plans after Nakano was charged with cocaine possession.\n\nSing made her WWF debut on the April 3, 1995 episode of \"Monday Night Raw\" participating in a sneak attack on Alundra Blayze, making it appear as if Blayze's nose had been broken. At SummerSlam, Faye defeated Blayze for the WWF Women's Championship and held the title until the October 23, 1995 airing of \"Monday Night Raw\", where Blayze regained the title, ending Faye's reign at only 57 days.\n\nFan interest in women's wrestling sunk once again as the year closed, and Sing tired of working there. Moreover, Faye was frustrated with her gimmick. WWF management asked her not to perform the same power moves as the male wrestlers, so instead, Faye was forced to act as comic relief. After a year with the company, Sing asked for a release from her contract. She briefly returned to Japan, but did not like the new system, which did not guarantee payouts.\n\nIn late 1999, she worked with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) briefly, appearing on several telecasts to help generate interest in a women's division. She was also a contender for both the WCW Cruiserweight Championship and WCW Hardcore Championship. In addition to competing in matches using her Singh and Monster Ripper gimmicks, she also made a couple of appearances with the Nitro Girls dance troupe under the name \"Beef\", for comic relief.\n\nBackstage, Sing was friends with the male, rather than the female, wrestlers. During her time in the WWF, she developed a close friendship with Owen Hart.\n\nAfter leaving WCW, Sing took a break from wrestling. In 2001, she worked as a caregiver to the disabled. On July 27, 2001, Sing died from a heart attack at the age of 40. Bruno Lauer disputes her cause of death in an interview with Online World of Wrestling Radio where he states that, \"she took herself out.\" She never married or had children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899158", "title": "Broward County Public Schools", "text": "Broward County Public Schools\n\nBroward County Public Schools is a public school district serving Broward County, Florida, is the seventh largest public school system in the nation. During the 2016–2017 school year, Broward County Public Schools served 271,517 students enrolled in 327 schools and education centers district wide. The district is headquartered in downtown Fort Lauderdale.\n\nWilliam Leary served as superintendent until 1988; the school board did not want him to serve out the remainder of his term, so it paid him $113,516 in severance. In 1994 Frank Petruzielo became the superintendent.\n\nThe current Superintendent of schools is Robert Runcie. The members of the school board, which oversee the district, are as follows:\n\nOn February 14th, 2018, a former student opened fire at a Broward school, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, killing 17 people and injuring 17 others.\n\nSuperintendent Robert Runcie and the School Board have faced criticism for their handling of policies and the lack of guidance assisted to the shooter. In April 2018, student Kenneth Preston revealed an investigation into an $800 million dollar bond for safety and building projects that the school board had not carried out efficiently. His findings prompted Senator Marco Rubio to request an investigation by both the Departments of Education and Justice.\n\nOn February 13th, 2019, Governor Ron DeSantis made an announcement alongside families of victims killed in the shooting that he had petitioned a statewide grand jury investigation based in Broward County.\n\nDuring the 2016–2017 academic school year, the District served 271,205 students. The district covers a total of 286 institutions: 138 elementary schools, 43 middle schools, 33 high schools, 16 adult/vocational schools, 16 centers, and 56 charter schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAt first all the colored schools were, as elsewhere, elementary schools. In part through the efforts of principals Blanche General Ely and Joseph A. Ely, by the end of the segregation era there were three colored high schools in Broward County: Crispus Attucks in Hollywood, Dillard in Ft. Lauderdale, and Blanche Ely in Pompano Beach.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899160", "title": "Eddie Barclay", "text": "Eddie Barclay\n\nÉdouard Ruault (26 January 1921 – 13 May 2005), better known as Eddie Barclay, was a French music producer whose singers included Jacques Brel, Dalida and Charles Aznavour. He founded Barclay Records.\n\nRuault, the son of a café waiter and a post office worker, was born in Paris on January 26, 1921. He spent much of his early childhood with his grandmother in Taverny (in today's Val-d'Oise). His parents bought the Café de la Poste bar in the middle of Paris while he was a child and at the age of 15 he left school to work in the café. He had not enjoyed his studies but he taught himself music and piano. He particularly liked American jazz and embraced the music of Fats Waller. He often visited the Hot Club de France to hear the quintet of Stéphane Grappelli and Django Reinhardt.\n\nHe became a pianist at \"L'Étape\" club in rue Godot-de-Mauroy, Paris, where his half-hour sets alternated with the young Louis de Funès, also at the start of his career. When the German occupiers of France banned jazz, he held regular social gatherings with other zazous at his home to listen to jazz records and illegal radio stations. Pierre-Louis Guérin employed him as a pianist at Guérin's first nightclub, \"Le Club\".\n\nAfter the war, Eduard Ruault changed his name to Eddie Barclay and opened \"Eddie's Club\" in Paris. In 1947 he started a band which featured his wife, Nicole, on vocals under the name Eve Williams. Barclay and his wife started \"Blue Star Records\", using their apartment to store 78 rpm discs, with Barclay delivering them himself. Musicians on the label included Don Byas and Eddie Constantine. Barclay wrote songs with Charles Aznavour and Boris Vian, and with Vian he edited \"Jazz\" magazine.\n\nIn 1952 Alan Morrison, a visitor to Barclay's club, had invited him to visit the US to see the new recording technology that enabled the production of 45s and LPs. In 1955 Barclay agreed to manufacture and distribute Mercury Records in Europe. He took 60 masters to Pathé-Marconi's Paris factory and began promoting the new microgroove format to the French market. As well as releasing US records by the likes of Ray Charles, Dizzy Gillespie, Sammy Davis, Jr. and Duke Ellington, Barclay engaged Gerhard Lehner, a German sound engineer, to make original recordings in Avenue Hoche, Paris. After selling 1.5 million copies of the Platters' \"Only You\", Barclay Records rose to become the top music production company in France. His success led to his nickname as \"empereur du microsillon\" (king of microgroove).\n\nHis francophone discoveries included the singers Hugues Aufray, Michel Delpech, Dalida (whom he launched in 1956), Mireille Mathieu, Claude Nougaro, and Eddy Mitchell. His artistes delighted in the artistic freedom that he afforded them, and in the trust that he placed in their judgement.\n\nAznavour joined the Barclay stable in 1956 even though they had been friends for over a decade by that time. They collaborated on some songwriting including \"Quand tu m'embrasses\" (When You Hold Me). Jacques Brel, the Belgian poet-singer who stayed with Barclay until his death in 1978, began his long association with Barclay in 1962, recording hits including \"Le plat Pays\" (The Flat Country), and \"Les Bigotes\" (The Holier-than-Thous) on the Barclay label. Brel left Philips Records to join Barclay as did Juliette Gréco. Philips threatened to litigate but the matter was settled out of court and Barclay released Johnny Hallyday to Philips as part of the settlement. Anarchist poet Léo Ferré was another established singer-songwriter who joined Barclay Records to great mutual benefit.\n\nBarclay's nose for success was not infallible, however. He refused to sign Bob Marley, ended his collaboration with Pierre Perret and dropped Michel Sardou, four years after discovering him, by telling him \"My little old fellow, write songs if you want, but especially do not sing them. You do not have any talent!\"\n\nAt the beginning of the eighties, recovering from cancer of the throat, which had been diagnosed in 1979, he sold 80% of his label to Polygram, and retired to Saint-Tropez, where he had spent 25 years building a house called Maison du Cap, Ramatuelle, since Brigitte Bardot persuaded him to buy land there in the late 1950s. His trademark was a white suit, and his Saint-Tropez parties at which all the guests wore white became huge events for the French media. He emerged briefly from retirement with a new record label but it was not the success he wished. The house was bought by Amanda Eliasch and Johan Eliasch and is now owned by Johan Eliasch alone.\n\nIn March 1994 Barclay underwent quadruple bypass surgery after a heart attack. On April 29, 2005 he was admitted to the Ambroise-Paré hospital in Paris with urinary and pulmonary infections. He died there during the night of May 12, 2005 and was pronounced dead in the morning. He has one son, Guillaume, from his third marriage to Marie-Christine Steinberg.\n\nBarclay transcribed and interpreted early jazz numbers. He co-wrote the songs \"Quand tu m'embrasses\" with Charles Aznavour, and \"Le rock de Monsieur Failair\" with Boris Vian.\n\nHe wrote the original soundtracks for several films, including \"Bob le flambeur\" (1955, English title: \"Bob the Gambler\"; one translation is \"Bob the high roller\") directed by Jean-Pierre Melville.\n\nIn 1988 he published his autobiography.\n\nBarclay was notorious for his many wives to the extent that some journalists referred to him as 'Bluebeard'. At one of his later weddings, the officiating mayor of Neuilly said: \"Ah, good day, Monsieur Barclay, what a pleasure to see you yet again.\" His nine wives were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899163", "title": "Remote Database Access", "text": "Remote Database Access\n\nRemote database access (RDA) is a protocol standard for database access produced in 1993 by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Despite early efforts to develop proof of concept implementations of RDA for major commercial remote database management systems (RDBMSs) (including Oracle, Rdb, NonStop SQL and Teradata), this standard has not found commercial support from database vendors. The standard has since been withdrawn, and replaced by ISO/IEC 9579:1999 - \"Information technology -- Remote Database Access for SQL\", which has also been withdrawn, and replaced by ISO/IEC 9579:2000 \"Information technology -- Remote database access for SQL with security enhancement\".\n\nThe purpose of RDA is to describe the connection of a database client to a database server. It includes features for:\n\nRDA is an application-level protocol, inasmuch that it builds on an existing network connection between client and server. In the case of TCP/IP connections, RFC 1066 is used for implementing RDA.\n\nRDA was published in 1993 as a combined standard of ANSI, ISO (International Organization for Standardization) and IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission). The standards definition comprises two parts:\n\n"}
{"id": "1899169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899169", "title": "Alden W. Clausen", "text": "Alden W. Clausen\n\nAlden Winship \"Tom\" Clausen (February 17, 1923 – January 21, 2013) was President of the World Bank from 1981 to 1986. He was also president and CEO of Bank of America in 1970 and again in 1986.\n\nClausen was born in Hamilton, Illinois to a family of Norwegian and German ancestry. He was the son of Morton Clausen, owner, editor and publisher of the \"Hamilton Press\", the town's weekly newspaper. His mother was Elsie Emma Kroll. He graduated from Carthage College in 1944 with a BA (and was awarded an honorary LLD in 1970), from the University of Minnesota Law School in 1949 with a LLB, and attended the Harvard University's six-week Advanced Management Program in 1966.\n\nClausen was certified to practice law after graduating from the University of Minnesota Law School, but instead he got a job at the Bank of America in Los Angeles, California. He became vice president in 1961, senior vice president in 1965, executive vice president in 1968, vice chairman of the board in 1969, and president and CEO in 1970.\n\nIn 1981 Clausen was appointed president of the World Bank. He was replaced 5 years later by Barber Conable. His term as World Bank president saw the massive scaling up of structural adjustment lending that had been introduced under his predecessor Robert McNamara.\n\nClausen returned to Bank of America as chairman and CEO in 1986 but stepped back from an active executive role in 1990 to be chairman of the executive committee. During his time at the bank he helped it grow to be the biggest commercial bank in the United States. Clausen was also a member of the Advisor Council of SRI International and was on the board of governors of United Way.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899173", "title": "Dunnigan, California", "text": "Dunnigan, California\n\nDunnigan (formerly, Antelope) is a census-designated place in Yolo County, California on Interstate 5. The population was 1,416 at the 2010 census. Dunnigan's ZIP code is 95937 and its area code 530. It lies at an elevation of 69 feet (21 m).\n\nThe town of Dunnigan was founded as Antelope by two early settlers, J. S. Copp and Jolin Wilson. During the year 1853 they were living down nearer the Sacramento River, but the winter flood washed them on to higher ground and they settled on new claims here. Next year, A. W. Dunnigan, a Yolo County postal worker, came and gave name to the place. With him were Henry Yarick and Abial Barker, the former going into the hotel business with Dunnigan, the inn being known as \"Dunnigan's.\" Other neighbors were Irving W. and William Brownell, Isaac Rice, D. T. Bird, Harry Porterfield and M. A. Rahm. The first store was opened in 1866 by G. B. Lewis, who sold out to William Earll. Z. J. Brown was the proprietor of a drug and notion store for several years, after which he was succeeded by G. W. Gray. In 1876 the railroad came along, and the town plat of Dunnigan was filed for record at the county seat November 1 of that year.\n\nA post office opened in 1856, the name was changed from Antelope to Dunnigan in 1876.\n\nDunnigan is located 11 miles (18 km) from Arbuckle and nearly 40 miles (64 km) from Vacaville and Sacramento.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the community is approximately 5.2 sq mi (13.2 km²); all land.\n\nAccording to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Dunnigan has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csa\" on climate maps.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Dunnigan had a population of 1,416. The population density was 271.0 people per square mile (104.6/km²). The racial makeup of Dunnigan was 836 (59.0%) White, 107 (7.6%) African American, 25 (1.8%) Native American, 19 (1.3%) Asian, 1 (0.1%) Pacific Islander, 339 (23.9%) from other races, and 89 (6.3%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 583 persons (41.2%).\n\nThe Census reported that 1,416 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 504 households, out of which 165 (32.7%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 284 (56.3%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 53 (10.5%) had a female householder with no husband present, 28 (5.6%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 28 (5.6%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 2 (0.4%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 115 households (22.8%) were made up of individuals and 52 (10.3%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.81. There were 365 families (72.4% of all households); the average family size was 3.33.\n\nThe population was spread out with 362 people (25.6%) under the age of 18, 103 people (7.3%) aged 18 to 24, 298 people (21.0%) aged 25 to 44, 372 people (26.3%) aged 45 to 64, and 281 people (19.8%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41.7 years. For every 100 females, there were 91.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 93.8 males.\n\nThere were 558 housing units at an average density of 106.8 per square mile (41.2/km²), of which 407 (80.8%) were owner-occupied, and 97 (19.2%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.9%; the rental vacancy rate was 16.7%. 1,076 people (76.0% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 340 people (24.0%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 897 people, 189 households, and 169 families residing in the area. The population density was 18/sq mi (7/km²). There were 205 housing units at an average density of 4.1 per square mile (1.6/km²). The racial makeup of the community was 42.6% White, 0.9% African American, 1.9% Native American, 0.7% Asian, 0.2% Pacific Islander, 50.5% from other races, and 3.2% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 79.2% of the population.\n\nThere were 189 households out of which 65.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 73.5% were married couples living together, 10.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 11.0% were non-families. Individual households account for 9.5% of the total. The population included 5.1% of people over 65 years of age. The average household size was 4.02 and the average family size was 4.24.\n\nMinors numbered 35.1%; 12.5% from 18 to 24, 29.7% from 25 to 44, 17.6% from 45 to 64, and 5.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 27 years. For every 100 females, there were 127.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 135.6 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the area was $28,833, and the median income for a family was $24,250. The per capita income for the community was $7,879. About 32.5% of families and 56.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 65.8% of those under age 18 and 18.2% of those age 65 or over.\n\nSince the housing boom of the early 2000s, several high scale homes have been built in the Dunnigan area. The area east of Interstate 5 has seen the majority of the recent housing boom. Of particular interest to buyers and current residents is the large lots that are available for reasonable prices compared to the adjacent Sacramento market.\n"}
{"id": "1899175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899175", "title": "Tetuani Ladino", "text": "Tetuani Ladino\n\nTetuani (or \"Tétouani\"; ; or \"Haketia\") is a dialect of Judaeo-Spanish, a Jewish Romance language historically spoken by the North African Sephardim in the Algerian city of Oran. The origin of the name is believed to be the city of Tétouan, Morocco, the origin of some of the Jewish residents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1899176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899176", "title": "Nick McCave", "text": "Nick McCave\n\nIan Nicholas 'Nick' McCave (born 3 February 1941) is a British geologist, who was the Woodwardian Professor of Geology at the University of Cambridge Department of Earth Sciences from 1985 to 2008 and a fellow of St John's College from 1986 to present . His current research topic is \"The Sediment Record of the Deep-Sea Circulation\" in the area of \"Environmental change and marine geochemistry\". He is primarily a marine sedimentologist.\n\nHe was educated at Elizabeth College, Guernsey, Hertford College, Oxford and Brown University (PhD).\n\nSeventy percent of the Earth is covered by water, so information about the marine environment is vital in understanding how the Earth's surface system works. Nick McCave's research looks at perturbations in the deep oceans, using evidence from micro-fossils combined with carbon dating, to obtain information on pre-historical climate change. It is important to understand the normal cycles of climate change, in order to assess the degree to which the global warming we are experiencing now is caused by man, and the likely consequences by analysis of past analogues. One problem is the interaction between atmospheric climate change and the observed changes in the ocean currents. There is a 'chicken and egg' question: are the perturbations seen in atmospheric CO concentrations forced by the vigour of the deep ocean currents, or vice versa? \n\nMcCave uses monitoring points in the North Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean and Indian Ocean to study how the Earth’s meridional heat flux is distributed by warm surface-ocean currents and cold deep-ocean currents.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899181", "title": "Haigh, Greater Manchester", "text": "Haigh, Greater Manchester\n\nHaigh () is a village and civil parish of the Metropolitan Borough of Wigan in Greater Manchester, England. Historically a part of Lancashire, it is located next to the village of Aspull. The western boundary is the River Douglas which separates the township from Wigan. To the north a small brook running into the Douglas divides it from Blackrod. At the 2001 census it had a population of 594.\n\nHaigh is derived from the Old English \"haga\", a hedge and means \"the enclosure\". The township was variously recorded as Hage in 1193, Hagh in 1298, and Haghe, Ha and Haw in the 16th century.\n\nBetween 1220 and 1230 the manor was part of the Marsey fee. Hugh de Haigh, probably Hugh le Norreys paid 3 marks in 1193–4 for having the king's good will. Richard de Orrell granted land in Haigh to Cockersand Abbey in 1220. In 1282 Hugh le Norreys was lord of Haigh. His daughter Mabel married William Bradshagh and in 1298 they inherited the manors of Haigh and Blackrod from Mabel's father. Bradshagh took part in Adam Banastre's rebellion in 1315 for which he was outlawed and by 1317 his manors were confiscated by the crown and granted to Peter de Limesey. William was presumed dead and Mabel remarried, but he returned in 1324 and killed Mabel's new husband. Sir William was killed at Winwick in August 1333. As penance, a legend states that Mabel walked barefoot from Wigan to Haigh every week for the rest of her life. The legend was made into a novel by Sir Walter Scott, and is remembered by Mab's Cross in Wigan Lane. In 1336 and 1337 Mabel Bradshaigh arranged for the succession of the manors to her husband's nephews; Haigh to William, son of John de Bradshagh, and Blackrod to Roger, son of Richard. In 1338 she founded a chantry in Wigan Church. She held the manor until 1346. She is honoured in the naming of Lady Mabel's Wood, a Woodland Trust wood at Haigh Hall country park. \n\nEarly in 1365 Roger de Bradshagh of Westleigh claimed the manor from William de Bradshagh and Sir Henry de Trafford. Thomas de Bradshagh took part in the Rising of the North of 1403 and was present at the Battle of Shrewsbury and was later pardoned by Henry IV. Edward Bradshaigh (d. 1652), a Carmelite friar – known as Elias à Jesu – was the fourth son of Roger Bradshaigh. Three brothers were Jesuits, and one brother a secular priest. Sir Roger Bradshaigh MP, was created a baronet in 1679 (see Bradshaigh baronets). Sir Roger Bradshaigh, the third Baronet, MP for Wigan for over 50 years, was Father of the House in the House of Commons from 1738 to 1747. Over time the name has been variously recorded as Bradshagh, Bradshaghe and Bradshaw. The Bradshaigh variant dates from about 1518.\nOn 1 June 1780 Elizabeth Dalrymple, great niece of the fourth Baronet and heiress of Haigh as a result of the failure of the male line in her maternal family (Bradshaigh), married Alexander Lindsay, 6th Earl of Balcarres. In 1787 the Earls of Crawford (after 1848, the Earls of Crawford and Balcarres) moved their seat to Haigh Hall for several generations. A manor house had stood on the Haigh estate since the Middle Ages. The present hall was built between 1827 and 1840 on the site of the ancient manor house, by Alexander's son the 7th Earl Balcarres who designed and supervised its construction whilst living in a cottage in the grounds. James, the 9th Earl, a bibliophile, established an extensive library at the hall. David, the 11th Earl sold the hall and grounds to Wigan Corporation in 1947 for £18,000 and moved back to the family's original home in Balcarres.\n\nIn 1540 John Leland reported that Sir Roger Bradshaigh had discovered a seam of cannel coal on his estate which could be burnt or carved by hand or machine into ornaments. It was an excellent fuel, easily lit, burned with a bright flame and left virtually no ash. It was widely used for domestic lighting in the early 19th century before the incandescent gas mantle was available but lost favour when coal gas made it obsolete. The cannel coal was mined from Tudor times but by the mid-1600s the mines were wet and started flooding. To remedy this, between 1653 and 1670, Sir Roger Bradshaw built a sough or adit, the Great Haigh Sough which ran for about a mile under his estate. It still drains water from the ancient workings. The Bradshaws successors, the Earls of Crawford and Balcarres, founded the Wigan Coal and Iron Company in 1865. Collieries in Haigh belonging the Wigan Coal and Iron Company in 1896 were the Alexandra, Bawkhouse, Bridge, Lindsay and Meadow Pits.\n\nThe central workshops for Balcarres' collieries in Haigh and Aspull were built on the north bank of the canal between 1839 and 1841. The forge, smithy, joinery and fitting shops were powered by a steam engine. The site became the sawmill for the Wigan Coal and Iron Company's pits and Kirkless Iron and Steel Works. The Georgian office block survives.\n\nHaigh Foundry was opened in the steep-sided Douglas valley in 1788 by the 6th earl, his brother and Mr Corbett an iron founder from Wigan. It was an iron works producing pig iron and castings. Brock Mill Forge, of even earlier origins, was acquired. From 1808, the firm manufactured winding engines and pumps for the mining industry. In 1812, it built Lancashire's first locomotive and two more by 1816. In 1835 E. Evans and T.C. Ryley took a 21-year lease. They built 0-4-0 and 2-2-0 locomotives, subcontracted from Edward Bury. In 1837, \"Ajax\" was supplied to the Leicester and Swannington Railway, followed by \"Hector\", an 0-6-0. In 1838 two broad gauge locomotives were built for the Great Western Railway. Four saddle tank locomotives designed by Daniel Gooch were built for the South Devon Railway. Long boiler locomotives were built for Jones and Potts and three locomotives were built for T.R.Crampton. In 1855 two 0-8-0 locomotives were built for use in the Crimean War, hauling guns up inclines as steep as 1 in 10. Over 100 locomotives were built before the lease expired in 1856.\n\nIn 1848, Haigh produced a beam engine of 100 inch bore by 12 feet stroke, possibly the largest in the world at that time.\nDuring the same decade, it supplied massive swing bridges for Albert Dock, Liverpool and Hull Docks - both extant in 2011. A new lease was signed by Birley & Thompson who concentrated on mining machinery, mill engines and large iron fabrications.\nUntil 1860, castings had to be carted up the hill out of the valley and records exist of at least 48 horses being hired from farmers to move a single casting. A railway was built but was re-routed a few years later. The foundry lease was given up in 1884 and the works closed in 1885. Several of Haigh's engineers left to form engine building companies - Walker Brothers, Ince Forge and Worsley Mesnes Ironworks Ltd.\n\nMuch of the site, with the exception of Brock Mill Forge, was intact in 2011 and the route of the mineral railway, including four bridges, is little changed. The foundry has been demolished but the site is used for manufacturing. The cast iron gateposts remain and a four storey building and chimney by the River Douglas. The foundry drawing office was on Wingates Road in a building with large windows and a stone floor supported by cast iron columns.\n\nLying within the historic county boundaries of Lancashire since the early 12th century, Haigh was a township in the ecclesiastical parish of Wigan in the Hundred of West Derby. It was part of the Wigan Poor Law Union which after 1837 took responsibility for the administration and funding of the Poor Law in that area. Haigh was part of the Wigan Rural Sanitary District until 1894 and Wigan Rural District from 1894 until 1974.\n\nHaigh's western boundary is the River Douglas and a small brook, a tributary of the Douglas, divides it from Blackrod in the north. The township which covers 2198 acres is on ground that rises towards the east and north. The village, about 2½ miles northeast of Wigan, is near the Aspull boundary at about above sea level. Haigh Hall Country Park occupies 250 acres of woods and parkland on south-western slopes. To the east are Winter Hill and the West Pennine Moors.\n\nRoads lead north to Blackrod, west to Standish, and south to Wigan and Aspull. The Lancaster Canal portion of the Leeds and Liverpool Canal crosses the western part of the township near the River Douglas. Haigh's underlying rocks are the sandstones, shales and ironstones of the Middle Coal Measures of the Lancashire Coalfield and coal and cannel were extensively mined. The Great Haigh Fault throws the Cannel and King Coal seams close to the surface at Haigh and deeper seams outcropped east of the fault within Haigh Hall Estate. The deepest seam of the Middle Coal Measures, the Arley outcrops a quarter mile north of the estate boundary, Arley Brook.\n\nAccording to the United Kingdom Census 2001, the civil parish of Haigh had a population of 594.\n\nHaigh Windmill, the only remaining windmill in Greater Manchester, was built in 1845 and supplied well water to John Sumner & Company's Haigh Brewery which, until the 1950s, was situated behind the Balcarres Arms public house. The disused windmill was restored in 2011 in a £60,000 scheme made possible by Heritage Lottery Funding. The damaged brickwork was repaired and a broken and missing sail replaced.\n\nHenry Eastman was the engineer for part of the Lancaster Canal to Haigh which was completed in 1799. This is the section where the canal joined the western arm of the Leeds and Liverpool Canal near Wigan Top Lock. In 1810 the Leeds and Liverpool Canal Company was allowed to use the Lancaster Canal south of Johnson's Hillock and the two joined in 1816. The canal passed through the Haigh estate and a Packet House for goods, mail and passengers was built near the Wigan Road entrance.\n\nThe Springs Branch Railway which ran from Ince Moss to Haigh and Aspull opened in 1838. There was a station at Red Rock which opened in 1869 on the Lancashire Union Railway. A waiting room was maintained for the occupants of Haigh Hall from 1870 until they left in 1946. The station was closed in 1949.\n\nSt David's Church is a Commissioners' church built as a chapel of ease to Wigan All Saints. The architect was Thomas Rickman and it was consecrated in 1833. In 1838 the parish of Haigh and Aspull was formed. The Roman Catholic Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception was founded as a mission in 1853 and the church opened in 1858.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899192", "title": "Art diary", "text": "Art diary\n\nAn art diary, art journal or visual journal is a daily journal kept by artists, often containing both words and sketches, and occasionally including mixed media elements such as collages. Such books will frequently contain rough workings, in cartoon form, of ideas later to appear in finished works, as well as acting as a normal diary, by allowing the artist to record their day-to-day activities and emotions.\n\nThese diaries not only give art historians a valuable opportunity to explore the creation process of these finished works, but they are a useful biographical tool.\n\nMany famous artists are known for their art diaries – the sketchbooks of Leonardo da Vinci are probably the best known example. Other artists to have used art journals include Frida Kahlo.\n\nThe concept of the art diary is also used by people working in related creative fields such as music; musician Brian Eno, for instance, is well known for his use of art diaries, excerpts from which were used in the Eno and Russell Mills book \"More Dark Than Shark\". Photographers Peter Hill Beard and Dan Eldon, and artist Sabrina Ward Harrison are three other people noted for their art journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899194", "title": "Povel", "text": "Povel\n\nPovel is a given name and a surname. People with that name include:\n\n\n\n"}
