{"id": "1842305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842305", "title": "Smooth Radio (2010)", "text": "Smooth Radio (2010)\n\nFrom 2010 to 2014, Smooth Radio was an independent, commercial, national radio station in the United Kingdom. Owned by Real and Smootha company formerly known as GMG Radiothe station was aimed at the over-40 demographic, and competed for its audience with BBC Radio 2. It was broadcast on the DAB Digital Radio Digital 1 national multiplex, Sky, Freesat, Freeview, Virgin Media, online and on regional FM and DAB frequencies in the North West, London, North East, West Midlands, Scotland and East Midlands. Nationally the station attracted a weekly average audience of 3 million.\n\nThe station opened in 1990 as 102.2 Jazz FM in London, and a second Jazz FM branded station was launched four years later in Manchester. The Manchester station became Smooth FM 100.4 in 2004, and was the first in the network of independent local radio stations to use the Smooth brand. The London station followed suit a year later. The network's parent company, GMG Radioa subsidiary of the Guardian Media Groupacquired the Saga Radio Group in the mid-2000s, and all Saga stations were given the Smooth name. After the publication of John Myers' recommendations of a regulatory overhaul in commercial radio, and the passing of the Digital Economy Act 2010 allowing stations to co-locate or discontinue local shows and broadcasts, Smooth Radio merged its five English stations into a single, quasi-national station in October 2010; local news feeds were produced at GMG Radio's headquarters in Salford Quays. 105.2 Smooth Radio in Scotland produced its own breakfast and drivetime shows, but carried networked programming at other times. As part of their licence agreement, the London and Manchester stations were required to continue their commitment to jazz music after dropping the Jazz FM name, and the UK's broadcasting industry regulator Office of Communications (Ofcom) stipulated they must broadcast 45 hours of jazz programming per week, but this requirement was ended shortly before the merger took place.\n\nSmooth recruited many well-known British radio personalities to its line-up. Presenters on the network included Emma B, Simon Bates, Tony Blackburn, Mark Goodier, David Jensen and Chris Tarrant. The station's flagship breakfast show was presented by Simon Bates, who left Classic FM after more than a decade. It broadcast occasional documentaries on subjects relating to music, news and media events; some of these won the station radio industry awards. In November 2011 Smooth launched a second station on the Digital One platform dedicated to Christmas music, and later replaced this with \"Smooth 70s\", which played music from the 1970s. The Christmas station returned in 2012, and Smooth 70s closed in September 2013. Along with its sister station, Real Radio, Smooth was an official host of the Blackpool Illuminations switch-on ceremony from 2010, and staged regular, free live music events. The station signed a number of sponsorship deals with companies such as Tetley Tea and ATS Euromaster, and held annual fundraising events in aid of the charities Help for Heroes and Macmillan Cancer Support.\n\nGMG Radio was taken over by rival Global Radio in June 2012. Global's purchase of the company was referred to Ofcom, the Office of Fair Trading and the Competition Commission amid concerns that Global's market share may be disproportionately large as a result of the deal, and consequently not in the public interest. GMG Radio subsequently changed its name to Real and Smooth Radio Ltd. A report issued by the Competition Commission in May 2013 highlighted competitiveness issues and recommended a full or partial sale of Real and Smooth. Real and Smooth Radio Ltd and Global continued to operate as separate companies while the takeover was investigated. Smooth moved its operations from Manchester to Global's London headquarters in October 2013. In February 2014, Global were given permission to remove Smooth from the Digital One platform and replace it with another station. Global also sold eight of its regional stations, including three operated under the Smooth brand, and announced that Smooth would replace much of its Gold network on the medium wave frequency. The Smooth brand was relaunched as a network of regional stations in March 2014.\n\nLondon station 102.2 Jazz FM was launched on 4 March 1990 with a concert performed by Ella Fitzgerald at the Royal Albert Hall. Jazz FM played mainly soul and jazz music and was broadcast to the London area. A sister station in Manchester called 100.4 Jazz FM was launched on 1 September 1994. The Jazz FM stations were purchased by the Guardian Media Group in 2002, and became part of the company's radio division, GMG Radio Holdings Ltd.\n\nIn 2003, GMG radio conducted market research into the type of music that listeners in the north-west of England wanted to hear on the radio. The study concluded that many people were dissuaded by the name \"Jazz\", and as a result, 100.4 Jazz FM closed on 13 February 2004 and relaunched as Smooth FM on 1 March. In 2005, GMG rebranded the London station 102.2 Smooth FM. The two renamed stations played middle of the road music, soul and R&B during the day and as part of their licence requirements, jazz music at night.\n\nOn 20 October 2006, GMG Radio announced that it was requesting a change of format for 102.2 and 100.4 Smooth FM from Ofcom, to remove the stations' daytime soul and R&B licence commitments. GMG Radio proposed an easy listening music service mixed with speech for the over 50s, and an improved local news service. Ofcom approved the changes on 8 December 2006, with the condition that GMG retained the 45 hours of jazz per week that constituted part of the former licence requirement. As a result of the format change and to distance the station from its London rivals Magic and Heart 106.2, GMG Radio agreed that a minimum of 20% of its daytime music output would be over 40 years old.\n\nIn December 2006, GMG Radio acquired the Saga Radio Group, which owned stations in the West Midlands, East Midlands and Scotland, and a licence to begin broadcasting to the North East, and expanded the Smooth Network. Along with the Smooth FM stations in London and Manchester, all Saga stations were relaunched under the Smooth Radio brand on 26 March 2007. Saga 105.7 FM in the West Midlands became 105.7 Smooth Radio, Saga 106.6 FM in the East Midlands became 106.6 Smooth Radio and Glasgow based Saga 105.2 FM became 105.2 Smooth Radio. A service for the north-east of England, 97.5 Smooth Radio, was launched in January 2008. To begin with, most programming for these stations was produced locally and some shows were networked from London. However, Smooth gradually increased its networked programming until most content was originated in London or Manchester.\n\nIn March 2008, GMG Radio requested that Ofcom remove the 45-hour jazz commitment for its London and Manchester stations. The company planned to relaunch Jazz FM from the jazzfm.com service which broadcast on DAB in Glasgow, online and on a DAB multiplex in London. In a meeting on 22 April 2008, Ofcom declined the request. GMG relaunched Jazz FM despite having to retain the jazz commitment.\n\nThe decrease of local output lead to criticism from Norman Quirk, the former managing director of Saga 105.2 FM in Glasgow, after GMG Radio dismissed six Scottish presenters in August 2008 in favour of increased networked content from its stations in London and Manchester. The station had operated a 24-hour schedule of local programming. Quirk labelled the dismissals \"disgraceful\" and expressed his fears that the station would not be able to serve the needs and interests of the Scottish people as well as Saga had done.\n\nAfter John Myers' recommendations of a regulatory overhaul in commercial radio were published, and the Digital Economy Act 2010 allowing stations to co-locate or discontinue local shows and to broadcast on national DAB was passed, Smooth Radio merged its five English stations into one quasi-national station, and local news feeds were produced from GMG Radio's headquarters in Salford Quays. GMG Radio announced on 29 June 2010 that it wanted to compete with BBC Radio 2 by broadcasting on the Digital One multiplex on DAB to the whole of England and Wales, and Sky, Freesat, Freeview, Virgin Media and online. Regional content would be kept; split news, travel and weather bulletins would be broadcast on the FM and regional DAB stations in the North East, North West, West Midlands and East Midlands. Listeners in London and those tuning to the national output would hear national information. 105.2 Smooth Radio in Scotland would keep its local breakfast and drivetime programmes because of the rules governing its broadcast licence, but networked content would be broadcast the rest of the time. The jazz commitments for London and the North West were also ended. The new Smooth Radio was launched on 4 October 2010 with most of the output originating from Salford Quays, and other programming coming from London.\n\nOn 1 November 2011, GMG Radio launched \"Smooth Christmas\" on the Digital One multiplex, a dedicated station playing only Christmas music with no news or advertisements. It promoted Smooth Radio and broadcast until 27 December 2011. Smooth Christmas was replaced on a trial basis by \"Smooth 70s\", playing tracks from the 1970s. The station was warmly received by listeners, and in January 2012 GMG Radio confirmed a deal with US syndication firm Premiere Networks to air 1970s editions of the \"American Top 40\" show presented by Casey Kasem, which would be broadcast at weekends. Smooth 70s' weekday programming included \"Disco Lunch\" and \"Late Night Love Songs\". Due to its popularity, Smooth Christmas was relaunched in November 2012 on the Digital One multiplex alongside Smooth 70s.\n\nIn June 2012 it was reported that Guardian Media Group was seeking to sell GMG Radio in order to restructure itself to stem losses being made by \"The Guardian\" and \"The Observer\" newspapers. Several offers were received for the subsidiary, valuing it at £50 million. GMG Radio was sold to Global Radio on 25 June, at an estimated price of between £50 million and £70 million. Global renamed GMG Radio \"Real and Smooth Radio Ltd.\" Several rival radio groups expressed their concerns over the takeover and the effect it could have on commercial radio in the UK. The deal prompted speculation about the possible disappearance of the Smooth Radio brand as a result of a possible merger with Global's Gold network, which was aimed at a similar audience. It was announced that in the short term GMG Radio and Global would continue to operate as separate entities while a review of the sale was carried out by Ofcom.\n\nOn 3 August the Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt instructed Ofcom and the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to examine Global Radio's purchase of GMG, which gave Global over 50% of the UK radio market because of concerns the takeover may not be in the public interest. On 11 October, the OFT agreed to fast-track the investigation. Hunt's successor Maria Miller said the deal would not be investigated for media plurality. The OFT concluded that the merger could lead to a rise in local advertising costs because of the decrease in competitors, and forwarded the matter to the Competition Commission, which oversees business mergers and takeovers. On the same day the Competition Commission announced it would publish its findings into the takeover by 27 March 2013.\n\nOn 21 February 2013, the Competition Commission confirmed it would delay its decision until May, and issued a statement in which it said, \"The range of possible remedies to be considered in this case is complex and that all possible remedies need to be explored with the parties to the merger and third parties\". The Commission published its final report into the acquisition on 21 May, requiring Global to sell radio stations in seven locations. On 14 June, it was reported that Global would appeal against the Commission's decision. A date for the appeal was subsequently scheduled for October. Following the hearing, in November, the Competition Appeal Tribunal rejected Global's appeal, meaning it would have to sell some stations in order to complete the takeover. Global announced in December that it would not appeal the decision, and would instead begin the process of selling the assets as directed by the Commission.\n\nGlobal announced on 12 August 2013 that Real and Smooth would relocate their London and West Midlands offices to Global premises. Smooth Radio's output was relocated to Global's Leicester Square headquarters from 1 October, a move that coincided with a major overhaul of its schedule, and the closure of Smooth 70s after 21 months on air. On 4 February 2014, the \"Radio Today\" website reported that Ofcom had given Global Radio permission to remove Smooth from the Digital One platform, and to replace it with a service playing music from the 1970s, 80s and 90s. Under this agreement, Smooth would continue to broadcast on its regional frequencies, but would be required to provide seven hours of local output per day. On 6 February, Global confirmed the sale of eight of its regional stationsincluding those with the Smooth Radio brand in the North West, North East and East Midlandsto the Irish media holdings company Communicorp. Under a franchising agreement between the two firms, these stations would retain the Smooth Radio name, but relaunch airing a mixture of both regional content and networked programming from London. Smooth would also take over Gold's medium wave frequencies, except in London, Manchester and the East Midlands. Global announced later that month that Smooth would be relaunched from 3 March, and subsequently confirmed the Gold changes would take effect from 24 March, when the stations would begin simulcasting with Smooth Radio London. This also coincided with the return of local programming at breakfast and drivetime.\n\nSmooth Radio catered mainly for listeners over the age of 40, a similar audience to that of BBC Radio 2. Official quarterly audience figures collated by Radio Joint Authority Research Limited (RAJAR) show that the station had an average weekly audience of just over 3 million listeners. Figures for the third quarter of 2010, released in October 2010 showed that collectively, the six regional Smooth stations had a weekly audience of 3 million at the time Smooth became a national broadcaster. John Simons, Group Programme Director for GMG Radio said, \"The scope for Smooth Radio is huge and we're looking forward to seeing this growth continue as more and more people discover the station across the UK. We firmly believe Smooth has the potential to become the UK's biggest national commercial station and these figures show it's heading in the right direction!\"\n\nDuring the final quarter of 2010the station's first as a national broadcasterlistening figures rose to 3.08 million, which remained unchanged in the first quarter of 2011, although listenership in London increased by 29%, largely because of the arrival of Simon Bates on the breakfast show in January 2011. Smooth continued to increase its audience share in the second quarter of 2011, with an average weekly total of 3.2 million, which rose once again in the third quarter to 3.328 million, meaning that for the first time Smooth's figures overtook those of one of its national rivals, Talksport. The station had an audience of 3.3 million in the final quarter of 2011, making it the second most listened to national commercial radio station in the UK. 3,317,000 listeners were tuning in during the first quarter of 2012, which dropped slightly in the second quarter to 3.2 million. The third quarter of 2012 saw another small drop to 3.19 million, but in the same period Smooth 70s recorded its first audience figures of 749,000. Collectively 3.7 million listeners were tuning into Smooth-branded stations. That figure rose to 3.8 million in the final quarter of the year. The first quarter of 2013 saw an average weekly audience of 3.6 million, which fell to 3.1 million for the second quarter. However, figures rose again through the second half of the year, with 3.26 million in the third quarter of 2013, and 3.38 million in the fourth.\n\nWhen Smooth Radio launched as a national network, GMG launched a hoarding and television advertising campaign featuring eight \"Smooth Ambassadors\"listeners chosen to represent the station's \"zest for life\". Each advertisement included a piece of information about one of the ambassadors, and something they were currently doing. The campaign ran throughout October and November 2010. A later campaign featured Simon Bates, whose breakfast show attracted increased listening figures in London in early 2011.\n\nThe station signed a number of sponsorship deals with advertisers, often for a particular show or for competitions associated with the advertiser. Its first major sponsorship deal was with Honda, which sponsored the drivetime show upon the station's launch. In July 2011 GMG signed a 13-week deal with gaming website Foxy Bingo to sponsor Smooth Radio's afternoon show, and a three-month deal with ATS Euromaster to sponsor the drivetime show began in September 2012. Real and Smooth announced a three-month deal with Sky Movies to sponsor Smooth's weekend film show, \"Smooth Radio at the Movies\" from February 2013.\n\nAs part of a three-month deal with Tetley Tea announced in October 2011, Smooth Radio's logo appeared on Tetley products sold in British supermarkets. In August 2011, GMG announced a deal with the magazine publisher IPC whereby Smooth Radio would sponsor the TV Times Awards. A trip to Kenya was given away in association with the Kenya Tourist Board in the lead up to the 2011 wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton; the winners would stay at the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, where the royal couple became engaged. High Street retailer Boots UK launched \"The Feel Good Forum\", a health and beauty lifestyle programme that began airing for an eight-week run on Real and Smooth from March 2013. The show, presented by Kate Thornton was a collaboration between the broadcaster, Boots and other partners, including the Mumsnet website. Some online content was also produced to supplement the programme. In July 2013, Real and Smooth secured a deal with the organisers of the 2014 Commonwealth Games to be the Official Media Partner for its Ticketing Campaign.\n\nPresenters on the station include many notable British radio personalities. The breakfast show was hosted by Simon Bates, who joined the network in January 2011. Bates revived \"The Golden Hour\" and \"Our Tune\", two popular features from his Radio 1 days. Emma B presented a Sunday afternoon show from March 2011. The actress Tina Hobley became a Sunday morning presenter from October 2013. Others to join the station at that time include Paul Hollins who presented Smooth Radio's Movie Songs and Smooth Soul Sunday, Gary King who hosted a Sunday lunchtime show, and David Andrews with a Soul and Motown show on Sunday evenings. Former LBC 97.3 presenter Anthony Davis joined the station as its Drivetime presenter from January 2014.\n\nMark Goodier hosted a weekday mid-morning show from 2007 to 2012. Chris Tarrant was a Saturday morning presenter whose show was networked across several GMG stations in 2008. Also in 2008, Tony Blackburn presented a syndicated weekend breakfast show for Smooth. He left the station in October 2010 to present \"Pick of the Pops\" on BBC Radio 2 because the BBC would not allow him to continue working for a rival broadcaster. Andy Peebles was also a presenter with the station, having hosted his \"Andy Peebles Soul Train\" from 2004 to 2013, before moving the programme to Gold, another station owned by Global Radio. David \"Kid\" Jensen was a weekday presenter from April 2011 to December 2013.\n\nIn September 2011, Simon Bates presented a week of programmes from South Australia as part of a promotion in which the station gave away a holiday to the state. In December 2011, Bates travelled to Afghanistan to present a series of shows with British troops at Camp Bastion, which featured Christmas messages from British soldiers serving there to their friends and relatives. Bates discussed the possible future of Afghanistan as coalition forces prepared to hand over control to the Afghan National Army. On 8 April 2012, Easter Sunday, the forces broadcaster BFBS simulcast a two-hour show presented jointly by Bates and BFBS's Rachel Cochrane, with Smooth, allowing family and friends of serving troops to connect with their loved ones. On 27 May 2012, Bates presented a special programme ahead of the Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant, previewing Elizabeth II's journey along the River Thames on the royal barge, Spirit of Chartwell. He was given special access to the vessel and spoke to the boat's owner, Philip Morrell and to composer Debbie Wiseman who was commissioned to write the music for the event. To commemorate the 30th anniversary of the end of the 1982 Falklands War, Bates broadcast the breakfast show from the Falkland Islands for a week; he explored the lives and experiences of Islanders and reflected on the conflict.\n\nFrom 2010, Smooth and Real Radio were the official broadcaster of the switch-on ceremony for the Blackpool Illuminations, the broadcast rights to which it won from BBC Radio 2, which had aired it since 1997. 2010 was the first time the event was broadcast on commercial radio. The annual event was compered by presenters from the two stations at a purposely-built arena, and featured a music concert by popular artists. Performers in 2010 included Alesha Dixon, Gabriella Cilmi, The Wanted, Olly Murs, and Robbie Williams, who switched on the lights that year. The 2012 switch-on was performed by Greg Rutherford, Luke Campbell and Beth TweddleBritish Olympians who won gold medals at the 2012 Summer Olympics.\n\nSmooth Radio hosted a series of free live music gigs titled \"Love Live Music\" held at venues around the UK. Featured artists included Adele, Beverley Knight, Eliza Doolittle, Katie Melua, Will Young, Nell Bryden, Honey Ryder, Paul Carrack, The Pierces, Roachford, Jack Savoretti and Leddra Chapman. On 4 October 2011 the station celebrated its first anniversary as a national broadcaster with a concert at London's Cafe de Paris. An evening of music and entertainment was held at Liverpool's Waterfront on 21 July 2012, which was attended by 20,000 people. A similar event was held in June 2013. Paul Carrick played at an event at Nottingham's Glee Club on 26 September 2012.\n\nIn December 2012 Real and Smooth secured exclusive broadcast rights to the \"Christmas Hit Factory Live\" concert, a show featuring artists and groups who achieved success with the Stock Aitken and Waterman and PWL record labels. Those appearing at the concert on 21 December included Kylie Minogue, Jason Donovan, Dead or Alive and Pat and Mick. It aired on New Year's Eve.\n\nFrom 2009 GMG Radio stations, including Smooth Radio, held an annual fundraising day for Help for Heroes, a UK charity which provides help and support to injured British service personnel. The first \"Help for Heroes Day\" took place on 10 November 2009, and collectively the stations raised £200,000. The 18-hour special featured Ronan Keating, Simon Cowell, Spandau Ballet and The Soldiers, and Chris Tarrant returned to the network for the event. The second \"Help for Heroes Day\" in 2010 raised £350,000, bringing the accumulated total to £750,000. £255,000 was raised for the charity in 2012.\n\nDuring the fundraising event \"Smooth Radio Starlight Supper\", listeners were encouraged to hold dinner parties at which guests donated money to a cancer charity. The event began in 2010 when the six stations in the Smooth network raised money for Breast Cancer Care in London, Macmillan Cancer Support in the North West, North East and West Midlands, the Rainbows Hospice for Children and Young People in the East Midlands and Marie Curie's Big Build in Glasgow. The 2011, 2012 and 2013 events raised money exclusively for Macmillan Cancer Support.\n\nSmooth Radio occasionally broadcast documentaries about music and historic events, usually at weekends. Its first series of documentaries, broadcast in 2008, included a six-part series about music from America's Mississippi River region, titled \"Rolling River of Rock\". A second series broadcast the following year included \"Live Fast Die Young\" about famous musicians who died before the age of 30, \"Legendary Labels\" about major record labels and \"From Cleethorpes to California\" about record producer Rod Temperton. The station's documentaries won a bronze award in the Programmes and Series Promotion category at the 2009 New York Festivals International Radio Program Awards.\n\nIn December 2010, the station celebrated the 50th anniversary of the television soap opera \"Coronation Street\" with a documentary titled \"Coronation Street at 50\" and the station's \"Fallen Heroes\" won a Gold at the 2011 New York Festivals International Radio Awards. In March 2011 GMG Radio reporter Katie Collins travelled to Norway to interview Prince Harry as he prepared to join a group of injured ex-servicemen on a walk to the North Pole in aid of the charity Walking with the Wounded. The station also covered the walk; Collins was the only commercial radio journalist to interview the Prince on that occasion. The documentary won a Gold award for Best Documentary at the 2012 Sony Radio Academy Awards.\n\nOn the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks on the United States, Smooth aired a documentary featuring British people who were living in New York City at the time of the attacks. This was followed by live coverage of the remembrance service from Ground Zero, the former site of the World Trade Center, which was destroyed in the attacks.\n\nIn November 2012, Smooth confirmed it would air a documentary celebrating the life of Dusty Springfield over the Christmas period to mark the upcoming 50th anniversary of her debut as a solo artist. In January 2013, a Saturday programme dedicated to films and a regular documentary slot for Sunday afternoons were announced as part of an overhaul of the station's schedule. Mark Goodier returned to the network in June 2013 to present \"Rolling Home: The Summer of the Stones\"a one-hour documentary about The Rolling Stones.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842316", "title": "Culture of Nigeria", "text": "Culture of Nigeria\n\nThe culture of Nigeria is shaped by Nigeria's multiple ethnic groups. The country has 527 languages, seven of them are extinct. Nigeria also has over 1150 dialects and ethnic groups. The six largest ethnic groups are the Hausa and Fulani in the north, the Igbo in the southeast, and the Yoruba predominate in the southwest, the Tiv people of North Central Nigeria and the Efik - Ibibio. \nThe Edo people are most frequent in the region between Yorubaland and Igboland. Many of the Edo tend to be Christian. This group is followed by the Ibibio/Annang/Efik people of the coastal south southern Nigeria and the Ijaw of the Niger Delta.\n\nNigeria's other ethnic groups, sometimes called 'minorities', are found throughout the country but especially in the north and the middle belt. The traditionally nomadic Fulani can be found all over West and Central Africa. The Fulani and the Hausa are predominantly Muslim while the Igbo are predominantly Christian and so are the Efik, Ibibio, and Annang people. The Yoruba are equally likely to be either Christian or Muslim. Indigenous religious practices remain important to all of Nigeria's ethnic groups, and frequently these beliefs are blended with Christian beliefs, a practice known as syncretism.\n\nThe Efik-Ibibio culture of coastal southeastern Nigeria has made a significant contribution to the culture of Nigeria, especially the culture of the southern region. A brief summary is as follows:\n\nEghosa the queen of Bini\n\nThe Yorubas are located on the western region of Nigeria.\n\nThe eastern part of Nigeria is the home of the Igbos, who are mostly Christians. Their traditional religion is known as \nOmenani. Socially they are led by monarchs known as Eze Igwes. These figures in turn are expected to confer subordinate titles upon men and woman that are highly accomplished. This is known as the Nze na Ozo title system. People of title are usually well-spoken, highly respected and well recognized in their communities.\n\nThe Hausa-Fulani live in Northern Nigeria. Nigeria Consist of my Tribe and many Cultures, Hausa Fulani are the largest or is the most popular tribe in Nigeria, even though the Hausa and Fulani are different tribes but they are considered as one tribe due to the close relationship that exist between the two tribes. \nHausa\nIn Hausa land the their one culture that is always practice yearly by Hausa people known as Hawan Sallah.\n\nNigeria is famous for its English language literature. \"Things Fall Apart\", by Chinua Achebe, is an important book in African literature. With over eight million copies sold worldwide, it has been translated into 50 languages, making Achebe the most translated African writer of all time.\n\nNigerian Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka described the work as \"the first novel in English which spoke from the interior of the African character, rather than portraying the African as an exotic, as the white man would see him.\" Nigeria has other notable writers of English language literature. These include Femi Osofisan who first published a novel \"Kolera Kolej\" was in 1975; Ben Okri whose first work, \"The Famished Road\" was published in 1991 and Buchi Emecheta who wrote stories drawn from her personal experiences of gender inequity that promote viewing women through a single prism of the ability to marry and have children. Helon Habila, Sefi Atta , Flora Nwapa, Iquo DianaAbasi Eke, Zaynab Alkali and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie among others are notable Nigerian authors whose works are read widely within and outside the country. \n\nApart from the speakers of standard English, a large portion of the population, roughly a third, speaks Nigerian pidgin, which has a primarily English lexicon. It has become a common \"lingua franca\" as a result. Pidgin English is a creolized form of the language. For instance, \"How you dey\" means \"How are you\". \"The Palm Wine Drinkard\", a popular novel by Amos Tutuola, was written in it.\n\nSince the 1990s the Nigerian movie industry, sometimes called \"Nollywood\", has emerged as a fast-growing cultural force all over Africa. Because of the movies, western influences such as music, casual dressing and methods of speaking are to be found all across Nigeria, even in the highly conservative north of the country.\n\nSupporters of English football clubs like Manchester United, Arsenal, Liverpool and Chelsea often segregate beyond the traditional tribal and even religious divide to share their common cause in Premier League teams. The Nigerian national football team, nicknamed the \"Super Eagles\", is the national team of Nigeria, run by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). According to the FIFA World Rankings, Nigeria ranks 22nd and holds the third highest place among the African nations behind Cameroon (11th) and Côte d'Ivoire (16th). The highest position Nigeria ever reached on the ranking was 5th, in April 1994.\n\nNigerian food offers a rich blend of traditionally African carbohydrates such as yam and cassava as well as the vegetable soups with which they are often served. Maize is another crop that is commonly grown in Nigeria. Praised by Nigerians for the strength it gives, garri is \"the number one staple carbohydrate food item in Nigeria\"\na powdered cassava grain that can be readily eaten as a meal and is quite inexpensive. Yams are frequently fried either fried in oil or pounded to make a mashed potato-like yam pottage. Nigerian beans, quite different from green peas, are widely popular. Meat is also popular and Nigerian suya—a barbecue-like roasted meat—is a well-known delicacy. Bush meat, meat from wild game like antelope and giraffes, is also popular. Fermented palm products make a traditional liquor, palm wine, and also fermented cassava. Nigerian foods are spicy, mostly in the western and southern part of the country, even more so than in Indian cuisine. Some more examples of their traditional dishes are eba, pounded yam, iyan, fufu and soups like okra, ogbono and egusi. Fufu is so emblematic of Nigeria that it figures in Chinua Achebe's \"Things Fall Apart\", for example. Achebe's magnum opus is the most widely read book in modern African literature.\n\nThe music of Nigeria includes many kinds of folk and popular music, some of which are known worldwide. The singer and social activist Fela Kuti was instrumental in Nigeria's musical development.\n\nTraditional musicians use a number of diverse instruments, such as Gongon drums. The kora and the kakaki are also important.\n\nOther traditional cultural expressions are found in the various masquerades of Nigeria, such as the Eyo masquerades, the Ekpe and Ekpo Masquerades of the Efik/Ibibio/Annang/Igbo peoples of coastal southeastern Nigeria, and the Northern Edo Masquerades. The most popular Yoruba manifestations of this custom are the Gelede masquerades.\n\nA very important source of information on modern Nigerian art is the Virtual Museum of Modern Nigerian Art operated by the Pan-Atlantic University in Lagos.\n\nIn addition, the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission, and Naija Invest Gateway, provide real time information on the Nigerian business culture.\n\nWomen wear long flowing robes and headscarves made from local markets who dye and weave the fabric locally. Southern Nigerian women choose to wear western-style clothing. People in urban regions of Nigeria dress in western style, the youth mainly wearing jeans and T-shirts. Other Nigerian men and women typically wear a traditional style called \"Buba\". For men the loose fitting shirt goes down to halfway down the thigh. For women, the loose fitting blouse goes down a little below the waist. Other clothing gear includes a \"gele\", which is the woman's headgear. For men their traditional cap is called \"fila\".\nThe dressing and colours of the garments can sometimes change according to the occasion to be attended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842317", "title": "The Fragile Art of Existence", "text": "The Fragile Art of Existence\n\nThe Fragile Art of Existence is the only studio album by Control Denied. It was released worldwide on Nuclear Blast America in 1999. Metal Mind Productions reissued the album on April 15, 2008 (February 11, 2008 in Europe). The release was limited to 2,000 copies, digitally remastered using 24-bit process on golden disc. The album was also rereleased in 2010 by Relapse Records, available in 2 disc, and 3 disc editions. The 3 disc edition was limited to 1,000 copies.\n\nThis was Chuck Schuldiner's final studio album before he died as a result of cancer on December 13, 2001.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842332", "title": "Michael Panaretos", "text": "Michael Panaretos\n\nMichael Panaretos () (c. 1320 – c. 1390) was an official of the Trapezuntine empire and a Greek historian. His sole surviving work is a chronicle of the Trapezuntine empire of Alexios I Komnenos and his successors. This chronicle not only provides a chronological framework for this medieval empire, it also contains much valuable material on the early history of the Ottoman Turks from a Byzantine perspective, however it was almost unknown until Jakob Philipp Fallmerayer discovered it in the nineteenth century among the manuscripts of the Biblioteca Marciana of Venice. \"Owing to this drab but truthful chronicle,\" writes the Russian Byzantist Alexander Alexandrovich Vasiliev, \"it has become possible to a certain extent to restore the chronological sequence of the most important events in the history of Trebizond. This \"Chronicle\" covers the period from 1204 to 1426 and gives several names of emperors formerly unknown.\"\n\nAll that is known about Panaretos is what little he tells us in his chronicle. He was a \"protosebastos\" and \"protonotarios\" in the service of Alexios III Komnenos. Panaretos makes his first appearance in an entry for 1351 when he records that he went with the mother of the emperor Alexios III, Irene of Trebizond, to Limnia against the rebel Constantine Doranites. What Panaretos' exact position was at this time is not certain, but his next appearance does not come until the Trapezuntine civil war was over when he records he went with the emperor Alexios III in a disastrous attack on Cheriana, which he himself barely escaped from with his life. Thereafter, he alludes to himself by using the first person plural when recording events in the annals. But he does not refer to himself by name until his entry dated to April 1363: he was part of an embassy, which included the \"megas logothetes\", George Scholaris, sent to Constantinople to negotiate a marriage between one of the daughters of Alexios and one of the sons of the emperor John V Palaiologos. Besides the emperor, this embassy also met with the emperor-monk John VI Kantakuzenos, the Venetian \"podestà\", and Leonardo Montaldo the capetan of Genoese Galata in that order.\n\nWe know that he had at least two sons, both of whom died in 1368 while Penaretos was away in Constantinople: Constantine who died from drowning at the age of fifteen, and Romanos who died from disease at the age of seventeen. Panaretos was obviously greatly affected by their deaths because it is the only personal event that he describes in his chronicle.\n\nHis \"Chronicle\" is a very brief work of twenty printed pages, covering the history of the Empire of Trebizond from its foundation in 1204. In its surviving form, there are at least five entries at the end dated from 1395 to 1426 (or 1429) that experts attribute to one or more continuators; a gap of about 10 lines separating the last entry (which has the date \"in the same year\") may be evidence that the copyist was \"faced with an erasure, or simply felt constrained to omit a passage which his court readership wished to suppress\", but Anthony Bryer points out the scribe \"made no attempt to cover up the fact.\" Bryer himself proposed that this gap had contained at least two entries referring to the assassination of Emperor Alexios IV Megas Komnenos.\n\nIt is not known where Panaretos found information for his work; he makes no allusions to his sources in the body of his work. About half of the chronicle is devoted to the years between 1349 and 1390, which falls into his adult lifetime. Interviews with older contemporaries could provide material for the generation before his lifetime. Fallmerayer pointed to a passage in Bessarion's \"Encomium on Trebizond\" which states there was a frescoed hall in the imperial palace displaying portraits of all of the Grand Komnenoi with their families in chronological order with brief accounts of their reign. \"This dynastic gallery with its inscriptions might have easily served Panaretos as a background for his brief pre-chronicle. He needed only to copy it.\" Panaretos provides chronological information on rulers up to Alexios III in two forms -- dates when the ruler began and ended his or her reign, and the length of the reign -- which do not always match, suggesting he drew on at least two written sources for this data.\n\nPanaretos differs from the tradition of Greek historians by not writing in a learned, Attic Greek, but in the Pontic Greek which was commonly used in the Trebizond of his time. Throughout the chronicle, Panaretos never refers to his countrymen as Greeks, as was the custom in Byzantium, but as \"Romaioi\", or as Christians. Although the chronicle ends in 1426, scholarly consensus is that the last four entries were written by an anonymous contributor. \n\nThe sole copy of this work is part of \"Marcianus graecus 608/coll. 306\", one of six works contained in this manuscript. All of the works comprising this manuscript were written by the same group of scribes; the paper of this manuscript has watermarks indicating it was made between 1440 and 1450, which led Peter Schreiner to date this manuscript to that decade. Although the manuscript had thought to have come to the Biblioteca Marciana from the private library of Bessarion, Schreiner's investigation shows it had been owned in the later 15th century (during Bessarion's lifetime) by Johannes Zacharias; at some point in the 18th century the manuscript came into the possession of Giambattisti Recanti, whose will bequeathed his private library to the Biblioteca 12 November 1734. Although Panaretos' \"Chronicle\" was discovered by Fallmerayer, the \"editio princeps\" was the work of his colleague Gottlieb Tafel who published the Greek text in 1832 in an appendix to his edition of Eustathius of Thessalonica but without translation or commentary. Fallmerayer published an edition of the Greek text with a German translation and commentary in 1844. The first scholarly, critical text of the Chronicle was done by Spyrindon P. Lambros, a Greek scholar, in 1907. Another edition was published by Odysseus Lampsides in 1958. The most recent edition, with an English translation, was by Scott Kennedy in 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842339", "title": "Helen Mayhew", "text": "Helen Mayhew\n\nHelen Mayhew is a British radio presenter and producer, specialising in jazz music. Mayhew started with the BBC, and then moved to 102.2 Jazz FM at its launch, then rejoined the BBC where she presented her own weekly show, and finally returned to the relaunched Jazz FM. She is also vice-president of the National Youth Jazz Collective.\n\nMayhew's broadcasting career began at BBC Radio Devon and BBC Radio Kent, presenting and producing a wide range of programmes. She was one of the original presenters on Jazz FM when it began broadcasting in 1990, where she devised & presented the \"Dinner Jazz\" programme, broadcast on weekday evenings from 7–9 pm.\n\nAlso at Jazz FM, she presented and produced many other programmes including blues, jazz-dance music, new releases, and Latin music.\n\nMayhew joined BBC Radio 2 in July 2004, presenting the Monday evening \"Big Band Special\", Mondays 10-10.30 pm featuring the BBC Big Band. In September 2004, she took over her own weekly show, which she described as \"A chill-out zone with a difference featuring music perfect for dreaming away the small hours. This aired every Saturday night/Sunday morning from 1–4 am.\n\nMayhew also occasionally presented the \"Jazz Line Up\" programme on BBC Radio 3, on Saturdays from 4–5 pm.\n\nHer roles on Radio 2 ended in April 2006, and made her final appearance on Radio 3 in February 2007. She joined GCap-owned theJazz in April 2007. She then went on to be heard on Classic FM every Monday-Friday from 12 midnight-2 am presenting the now defunct \"Classic FM Jazz\" programme.\n\nMayhew came back to the relaunched Jazz FM in 2009 to co-present the \"Dinner Jazz\" programme with Sarah Ward, which expanded to six nights a week and is currently broadcast between 7 pm and 10 pm.\n\nIn addition to her 'day-job' in radio, she is also a club DJ, playing jazzy dance music.\n"}
{"id": "1842346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842346", "title": "Jane Reece", "text": "Jane Reece\n\nJane B. Reece (born 15 April 1944) is an American scientist and textbook author. She is the co-author, along with Neil Campbell, of the Campbell/Reece \"Biology\" textbooks.\n\nReece received her A.B. in Biology from Harvard University, then received from Rutgers her M.S. in microbiology. Then, she earned her Ph.D. in bacteriology from the University of California, Berkeley. Afterwards, she worked as a postdoctoral fellow in genetics at Stanford University.\n\nReece has taught at various colleges, including Middlesex County College (New Jersey) and Queensborough Community College (New York City). She has been the author of several textbooks at Benjamin Cummings, which she joined in 1978.\nDr. Reece also coauthored \"The World of the Cell\", third edition, with W.M. Becker and M.F. Poenie.\n\n2017 - awarded honorary doctorate from Uppsala University, Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "1842365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842365", "title": "Bedford railway station", "text": "Bedford railway station\n\nBedford railway station (formerly Bedford Midland Road) is the larger of two railway stations in the town of Bedford in Bedfordshire, England. It is on the Midland main line from London St Pancras to the East Midlands and the terminus of the Marston Vale line from Bletchley through Bedford St Johns.\n\nThe original station was built by the Midland Railway in 1859 on its line to the Great Northern at Hitchin. It was on land known as \"Freemen's Common\" approximately south of the current station on Ashburnham Road.\n\nThe London & North Western Railway (LNWR) also had a station on its line between Bletchley and Cambridge. The Midland crossed it on the level and there was a serious collision when an LNWR train passed a red signal. (Curiously, both drivers were named John Perkins). Following this accident, the Midland built a flyover in 1885.\n\nThe extension to St Pancras opened in 1868. The connection to Hitchin ceased public services during 1961, but the line north of Bedford to Wigston Junction is still officially referred to as the Leicester to Hitchin line. At this time the station was substantially altered, with the replacement of a level crossing by the Queen's Park overbridge. In 1890 fast lines were added to the west to allow expresses to bypass the station.\n\nSerious damage occurred during World War II when a bomb destroyed the booking hall's glass ceiling. The current station was built to replace it and was opened by Sir Peter Parker (chairman of BR) on 9 October 1978. The station was moved about north; the slow lines were realigned to the west next to the 1890 fast lines, to which platforms were added.\n\nAlthough the intention was for what remained of the old awnings to be transferred to the Midland Railway at Butterley in Derbyshire it proved impossible to save them. Nothing remains of the original station buildings.\n\nServices over the Marston Vale line to/from were transferred here from the old LNWR St Johns station in May 1984. A new connection, which runs along the formation formerly used by the abandoned line to Hitchin (closed to passenger traffic from 1 January 1962 and completely three years later), was laid from the Marston Vale branch up to the main line to permit this. The original St Johns station closed on 14 May 1984 with a replacement halt on the new chord opening the same day. Bletchley trains henceforth used a bay platform (numbered 1A) on the eastern side of the station and still do currently (summer 2018).\n\nThe track layout around the station is set for significant changes as Network Rail aims to make operations easier and faster, in conjunction with electrification northward to Sheffield and westward to Bletchley and Oxford. The majority of the work will be north of the station.\n\n\nThe station is served by three operators and managed by Thameslink.\n\n\nEast Midlands Railway semi-fast services along the Midland Main Line between and call at the station, as do London- services. These services mostly use \"Meridian\" diesel-electric multiple units. Morning and evening peaks see some Nottingham services extended to via and Corby services extended to , plus some and services calling. The weekend sees trains operating to and in the summer months these extend to/from .\n\nThe station is the northern terminus of Thameslink who operate Thameslink route services to Brighton through St Albans and London St Pancras. Services from the station also call at Luton Airport Parkway and Gatwick Airport. Additional services start or terminate at Gatwick Airport or . These services use electric multiple units. Thameslink also runs a few services a day to Sutton on the Sutton Loop line, via both Wimbledon and Mitcham Junction.\n\nLondon Northwestern Railway operates local services to via the Marston Vale Line using Class 230 D train'. There is no Sunday service on this line.\n\nThe typical off-peak service in trains per hour (tph) is: \n\nIn common with other stations on the Bedford to Bletchley Marston Vale line, Bedford station is covered by the Marston Vale Community Rail Partnership. The partnership aims to increase use of the Marston Vale line by getting local people involved with their local line.\n\nA second CRP with Bedford Midland as its northern terminus - The Bedford to St Albans City Community Rail Partnership (BSAC CRP) - has been set up (June 2019), covering the eight stations on the Midland main line between Bedford Midland and St Albans City \n\nThe station has the following facilities:\n\nThe station is in the PlusBus scheme, where train and bus tickets can be bought together to save money.\n\nThe station will be the eastern terminus for some time of East West Rail, a plan to reopen the railway from and . , extension to and East Anglia via is planned but not funded. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842371", "title": "102.2 Smooth FM", "text": "102.2 Smooth FM\n\n102.2 Smooth FM was an Independent Local Radio station for Greater London. It replaced 102.2 Jazz FM on 7 June 2005 at 10 am, with the help of R&B singer Lemar and the then breakfast show host Jon Scragg. The first track played, keeping with the name of the newly launched radio station was Sade Adu's \"Smooth Operator\", and was owned by the radio division of the Guardian Media Group, GMG Radio. Following disappointing audience figures, the station was closed on 23 March 2007 and relaunched as 102.2 Smooth Radio the following Monday, following a successful format change request to Ofcom to play music oriented at listeners aged 50 and above.\n\n102.2 Smooth FM was available on DAB across London, Central Scotland, the North East of England, South Wales and the Severn Estuary, Yorkshire and the West Midlands, as well as on Freeview channel 718.\n\nIn 2005, the Guardian Media Group made the decision to drop the jazz name from the Jazz FM brand and relaunch the station as Smooth FM. The London version of Jazz FM closed on 27 May 2005 to prepare for the launch of Smooth FM on 7 June.\n\n102.2 Smooth FM played middle of the road music, soul and R&B during the day and, as part of its licence requirements, focused on jazz music at night. Smooth FM also played specialist jazz and soul shows at weekends, details of which are listed below.\n\nThe station was launched on the premise of a 'clutter-free' listen, offering 40 minutes of non-stop music every hour without commercial interruptions, deliberately posed as a direct challenge to the 'might' of the BBC and a tactic aimed at increasing the total number of hours listeners stayed with the station. The 'Smooth 40' later became the '9-5 Smooth 40', with off-peak shows introducing more commercial breaks into their output, before the concept was dropped altogether in mid-2006.\n\nWeekday programming featured an 'all-request' feature entitled 'Smooth on Demand' at 2 pm and 7 pm, Monday to Friday, where listeners were invited to 'demand' their favourite song by calling a local-rate phone number.\n\nSmooth FM also ran a number of 'big money' promotions to entice listeners to trial the station - the 'Smooth £10K Tripleplay' ran for several weeks in late 2005, giving £10,000 to a listener for correctly identifying three consecutive songs in a particular order. Another large prize was awarded to Dawn Muggleton on 19 April 2006, however - who correctly identified the 'Smooth Secret Song' (Diana Ross' \"My Old Piano\"), winning £118,454 at the end of a contest that had run for several months, which was, at that time, the biggest cash prize awarded on UK radio since 1999.\n\nThe station also held exclusive live commentary rights for Chelsea FC soccer matches in London for the 2005/06 and 2006/07 seasons. Commentary was provided by Gary Taphouse and Kerry Dixon.\n\nThe station's jingle package was produced by Bespoke and voiced by Mitch Johnson.\n\n102.2 Smooth FM's presenters included:\n\n\nOn 20 October 2006, GMG Radio announced that it was requesting a change of format for Smooth FM from Ofcom, moving the station away from its daytime soul and R&B remit, instead offering easy listening music and speech for the over 50s and an improved local news service. Ofcom approved the changes on 8 December 2006, with the condition that GMG retained the 45 hours of jazz per week that constituted part of the former licence requirement.\n\nSmooth FM trailed the forthcoming changes from the beginning of March 2007, promising 'more of London's smooth favourites mixed with the best songs from the past five decades'. The station closed at 6:02pm on Friday 23 March 2007 with newsreader Sam Gudger uttering the final words - \"that was Smooth FM\" - followed by a weekend of preview music, before the station's replacement, 102.2 Smooth Radio, launched on Monday 26 March.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842388", "title": "Soft Ballet", "text": "Soft Ballet\n\nSoft Ballet was a Japanese electronic group formed in 1986. The group consisted of three members, Maki Fujii, Ken Morioka, and Ryoichi Endo, though they employed extra support members for live shows. While Soft Ballet weren't necessarily chart toppers, they had a strong cult following and were considered pioneers of modern electronic music in Japan in the 90s.\n\nSoft Ballet was officially formed in 1986 when Ken Morioka and Ryoichi Endo (who had already been working together in a band called Volaju) joined with Maki Fujii. Together as Soft Ballet, the trio's combination of light synthpop with hard European-style EBM attracted attention for being a unique presence on the then-current Japanese music scene. After releasing a handful of songs on indie labels, the group was signed to Alfa Records in 1989 and immediately released their debut album, \"Earth Born\". The album proved to be a success and the band toured extensively for it, leading to a concert being filmed professionally and released to home video early the next year. In this time Ken and Maki assisted famed video game composer Yuzo Koshiro with his soundtrack for \"The Scheme\".\n\nIn 1990 the band released two albums; First came their sophomore album, \"Document\", followed later by a \"mini-album\", \"3 [drai]\". This mini-album was intended as a showcase for each individual member, with Ken, Maki, and Ryoichi each composing and performing a song separately from the rest of the band. The three each came at it from completely different styles- Ken made a relaxing pop number, Maki made a hardcore industrial song, and Ryoichi (with Maki handling the arrangement) put together a slow, ponderous ballad- effectively showing the three completely different sides that the band mixes together to form a typical Soft Ballet song.\n\n1991 saw the band taking a political stance with the release of one of their most successful albums of all time, \"愛と平和\". The album took a hard anti-war stance (most explicitly against the Gulf War) and displayed this aggression by embracing the band's industrial and EBM influence more than any of their past work. \"愛と平和\" was Soft Ballet's first album to reach the Oricon Top 10, and this new level of success brought them to the attention of a bigger record company, Victor Entertainment. It was also named one of the top albums from 1989-1998 in a 2004 issue of the music magazine \"Band Yarouze\".\n\nThough Soft Ballet left Alpha by the end of 1991, Alpha continued to capitalize off the band's success by releasing remix albums. These remix albums, \"Alter Ego\" in 1992 and \"Twist And Turn\" in 1993, were notable for featuring exclusively Western remixers, including big names such as Richard D. James (under his Polygon Window alias), 808 State, LFO, and Cabaret Voltaire among others. This was among the first times that a Japanese band had participated in such an international remix exchange, and these albums became the first Soft Ballet material that was circulated in the West.\n\nSoft Ballet moved over to Victor Entertainment by 1992, signing to a newly created sublabel called XEO Invitation. \"Million Mirrors\", Soft Ballet's 5th album, was XEO's first album release and once more they broke into the Top 10. Though some songs were circulated on XEO Invitation promotional samplers, no songs from \"Million Mirrors\" were released as singles in Japan. However, in a rare move, the band released \"Threshold\" as a 12-inch single in the United Kingdom, through Blue August Records.\n\nSoft Ballet released their first singles on XEO in 1993, \"Engaging Universe\" followed by \"White Shaman\", which proved to be some of their biggest hits and earning them guest performances on multiple TV shows. The following album, \"Incubate\", showcased the most diverse collection of styles in the band's history. Incorporating alternative rock, jazz, EBM, and pure noise, the album could be said to contain both their most accessible as well as most abstract songs.\n\nPerhaps the extreme musical diversity was a sign of the band's growing inner turmoil, because the group took 1994 off in order for Maki and Ken to explore other musical endeavors. Maki teamed with Hisashi Imai of Buck-Tick, and a slew of British artists (including Raymond Watts, Meat Beat Manifesto, and Julianne Regan) to release an album as Schaft, while Ken traveled Europe to record a solo album.\n\nThe trio regrouped in order to record for a new album and, in a first for the band, wrote most songs collaboratively. Up to this point, with the exception of one song off \"Million Mirrors\", the band members had never co-written lyrics or co-composed music. However the material from these new sessions featured lots of collaboration, as well as members changing roles (Ryoichi composing music and Ken and Maki writing lyrics). Despite this new team dynamic, conflicts within the band-members continued and the group announced that they'd split up after the release of their new album and a final concert series. \"Form\" came out in 1995 and became the most successful album of their entire career. This was followed by a remix album, \"Forms: Remix For Ordinary People\", which once more exclusively featured non-Japanese remixers and was released in collaboration with SSR Records.\n\nAfter playing a three night concert series in Tokyo, Soft Ballet disbanded on July 23, 1995. To close out their career, they released a self-titled compilation album (though it is sometimes listed under the name \"The Ultimate Best Of Soft Ballet\"). Though ostensibly a \"Best Of\" album, it actually consisted mostly of new material. Of the two-disc set's 22 songs, 15 were completely new recordings of old songs.\n\nRyoichi immediately moved on to his own band called The Ends (later renamed to just \"Ends\"), releasing a new album in 1996 and every year since then until the band's reunion. While Ends never reached the same heights as Soft Ballet, it is arguably the most successful post-Soft Ballet project of any of the members.\n\nKen engaged in a number of musical activities. In addition to a solo career, he composed the soundtrack for the popular anime series Kaikan Phrase, began doing session and production work for artists such as Demon Kogure, Feel, Hikaru Kotobuki and Losalios, and engaged in one-off collaborations such as forming the group Suicide with Issay of Der Zibet for a Japan tribute album.\n\nMaki had the most sporadic output during the group's breakup period. While Ryoichi had one consistent band, and Ken had a constant stream of different projects, Maki mostly participated in one-off projects. His first act outside the band was to return to Alfa Records to release \"Maki Fujii Assembled\", an album of remixes of songs he composed for Soft Ballet (though all song titles were changed to disguise the fact that they were Soft Ballet songs). In the following years he appeared as a guest collaborator on albums by Ryuichi Kawamura (of Luna Sea), Mari Hamada and Zilch, and produced the debut album of the band Epidemic. In 1999 he established the project She Shell, but only two singles were ever released before the project was seemingly abandoned. Notably, She Shell was among the first acts to ever do a remix for Ayumi Hamasaki.\n\nThe group had considered reforming for some time, but Maki had been the last holdout. Finally in 2002, the trio came to an agreement and Soft Ballet officially reunited. They made their return to the stage at the 2002 Summer Sonic Festival, and began recording together for the first time since 1995. The resulting album, \"Symbiont\" (released on EastWest Japan), showcased an updated sound, taking advantage of the leaps in digital music technology that had occurred since they last worked together. The album was a moderate success, but the wave of popularity that the band was riding when they broke up had now passed.\n\nThe band played a handful of live dates through the end of 2002 and toured again at the start of 2003, and released a new single, \"Bright My Way\". For reasons that aren't clear, the band left EastWest Japan in the middle of the year and their next single, \"Smashing The Sun\" was released through Warner Music Japan. In the final quarter of 2003, Soft Ballet released \"Menopause\" which (as of 2014) is their final album. True to its title, \"Menopause\" was a mature album coming at topics with an older perspective. Notably, its final track (which is also, to-date, the final new Soft Ballet song), \"土縋り\", is the only song in the band's entire catalogue with a fully Japanese title.\n\nAfter embarking on one final tour in December, Soft Ballet disbanded again on December 17, 2003. This final show was filmed by the crew, and later released to DVD in 2013.\n\nThanks to the band's strong cult following, Soft Ballet continued to release work after their disbandment. In addition to a series of compilation albums issued around the time of the break-up, Soft Ballet began offering work through Sony Music Direct. Albums and videos were offered for pre-order and, if a certain number of orders were placed, the releases would be printed on demand in a limited edition. Media released through this system include a DVD box set of early Soft Ballet concert videos, remastered reissues of the band's first four albums initially released on Alfa Records, and a DVD of the band's final concert from 2003. Most notable may be \"Index–Soft Ballet 1989–1995\", a massive 11-disc set of almost all songs, live tracks, and remixes the band released from 1989 to 1995. All songs were remastered under Maki Fujii, and extensive liner notes were included. As a bonus, never-before-released studio recordings of special live arrangements were included on the final disc. This set is extremely rare and highly valued, and regularly goes for close to 100,000 JPY at auction.\n\nWhen Soft Ballet broke up, Ryoichi immediately returned to his band, Ends. It seems he was influenced by his time working with Soft Ballet again, due to the new directs that Ends took from this point forward. While previous Ends material mainly had a hard rock/classic rock style, this post-Soft Ballet material was far more electronic in nature. 2004's \"The Counter\" made use of modern synthesizers and mixed sped-up drum breaks with modern sounding pop rock. 2005's \"Found\" took this new direction even further, with songs that could be described as outright techno. As of 2014, \"Found\" remains Ends' most recent studio album and the band last played live in 2010. As of 2014, Endo has seemingly left behind the music industry for the time being, in favor of doing commercial voice-over work.\n\nAfter the dissolution of Soft Ballet, Ken Morioka returned to his myriad of projects. He returned to his solo work, self-releasing a steady stream of singles and albums (including two collaborative albums; One with Daijiro Nozawa and one with the band ZIZ) which continues until the present. On the side, Morioka returned to session work, writing and/or touring with Mell, Tomoyasu Hotei, Kaya, Buck-Tick, and more. He contributed to soundtracks, including the game Dream Club Zero, the movie \"記憶の音楽Gb\", and \"Ghost In The Shell Tribute Album Ver 2.0.0\".\n\nIn 2009, Ken and Masayuki Deguchi (formerly of the band Grass Valley) formed a new band, Gentleman Take Polaroid, and released one album together. In 2013, Ken took part in two supergroups; the first was KA.F.KA led by Masami Tsuchiya, the second was a backing band for a posthumous performance by hide. \nIn 2014, Ken announced that he and Maki Fujii would be uniting to form a new group called minus(-). minus(-) released two mini-albums through 2014 and 2015, \"D\" and \"G\", before Morioka died of heart failure on June 3, 2016.\n\nMaki Fujii continued to be sporadic in his output. He spent the first years following the end of Soft Ballet working on the solo projects of Atsushi Sakurai and Kirito, while simultaneously working on his new band, Suilen. Fujii worked with Kirito for years, but when Kirito joined a new band in 2007 and therefore ended his solo project, Fujii took this as the time to put focus on his own band. Suilen released their first mini-album \"音ヲ孕ム\" in 2007 and released three more mini-albums between then and 2009. Suilen also contributed music to the Hellsing OVA series in 2009.\n\nIn 2008, Suilen played a triple bill show with acid android and Hisashi Imai's band Lucy. As a special encore, Fujii and Imai reunited as Schaft with Yukihiro on drums for a performance of Schaft's song \"The HEROINside\". In 2010, Suilen embarked on their last tour to-date, and Fujii contributed to two acid android albums. Fujii then dropped out of the public eye completely, releasing no music and abandoning all social media outlets. It wasn't until 2014 when Ken Morioka announced that he and Fujii would be forming a new group called minus (-), that any news about Fujii's status was given.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842403", "title": "Leopold Godowsky Jr.", "text": "Leopold Godowsky Jr.\n\nLeopold Godowsky Jr. (May 27, 1900 – February 18, 1983) was an American violinist and chemist, who together with Leopold Mannes created the first practical color transparency film, Kodachrome.\n\nMannes and Godowsky's experimentation with color photography began in 1917, after seeing the film \"Our Navy\" in Prizma Color, which was advertised as a color film. Because of the low quality the boys felt cheated and decided to do something about it. They designed a movie camera and projector each with three lenses covered by orange-red, green and blue-violet filters. They took multiple black-and-white exposures and projected them back through the filters. They patented this system, but it was not a commercially viable process.\n\nGodowsky studied violin at UCLA and became a soloist and first violinist with the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the San Francisco Symphony Orchestras. He also enrolled at UCLA to study physics and chemistry. He performed jointly with his father, Leopold Godowsky, one of the great pianists of the early twentieth century, using a rare Cremonese violin by Giuseppe Guarneri \"del Gesù\", the 1734 \"Prince Doria\". Godowsky Jr married Frances Gershwin, sister of George and Ira Gershwin, who became a recognized painter and sculptor. Their son, Leopold Godowsky III, was also a concert pianist. By 1922, Godowsky had given up his orchestral jobs in California and moved back to New York City where he and Mannes worked as musicians. They experimented with color photography during their spare time.\n\nWhile on his way to perform in Europe in late 1922, Mannes made the chance acquaintance of a senior partner in the investment firm of Kuhn, Loeb and Co. and described their progress with color photography. Some months later the firm sent one of their junior associates, Lewis L. Strauss to the Mannes apartment to view the color process. The final results were impressive enough for Kuhn Loeb to invest in the process.\n\nWith financial backing, Godowsky and Mannes built a dedicated laboratory and in 1924 took out additional patents on their work. In 1930 Eastman Kodak was so impressed with the results that they contracted them to move to Rochester and take advantage of Kodak's research facilities.\n\nBy 1935, Godowsky and Mannes and the Kodak research staff had developed a marketable subtractive color film for home movies. Kodachrome film was coated with three layers of ordinary black-and-white silver halide gelatin emulsion, but each layer was made sensitive to only one-third of the spectrum of colors—in essence, to red, green or blue. Special processing chemistry and procedures caused complementary cyan, magenta or yellow dye images to be generated in these layers as the black-and-white silver images were developed. After they had served their purpose, the silver images were chemically removed, so that the completed chromogenic film consisted solely of the three layers of dye images suspended in gelatin. [This is only partially accurate. All three layers were sensitive to blue light. The topmost layer was coated onto a \"Carey-Lea silver\" \"filter\" layer, which was a blue-light absorbing layer. This prevented blue light from reaching the two lower layers. It transmitted both red light and green light. The layer closest to the support was sensitive to both blue and red light. That is where the red light information was recorded. The layer above it was sensitive to both green and blue light. The top-most layer recorded the blue light information.]\n\nKodachrome 16mm movie film was released for sale in 1935, and in 1936 Kodachrome 35mm still and 8mm movie film were released.\n\nTechnicolor Monopack, a 35mm version of Kodachrome Commercial (originally a specialized 16mm low-contrast camera film intended for principal photography and not for direct projection) later became the first single-strip three-color film suitable for professional applications (when combined with Technicolor's proprietary dye-transfer printing process) and Monopack was used on several complete productions (and numerous second units) until it was replaced by Eastmancolor negative film in the 1950s. Three-strip Technicolor was itself replaced by Eastmancolor negative in 1955.\n\nGodowsky was awarded the Edward Longstreth Medal in 1940.\n\nGodowsky and Mannes were inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2005.\n\nThe Photographic Resource Center at Boston University has a biennial award for Color Photography named in honor of Leopold Godowsky Jr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842404", "title": "Cat Orgy", "text": "Cat Orgy\n\n\"Cat Orgy\" is the seventh episode of the third season of the American animated sitcom \"South Park\", and the 38th episode of the series overall. It originally aired on Comedy Central on July 14, 1999. It is the first episode of a three-part story arc, often known as \"The Meteor Shower Trilogy,” which tells three different stories all taking place on the same night. The other two episodes are \"Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub\" and \"Jewbilee.” As such, it features only one of the four main characters, Eric Cartman.\n\nOn the night of a meteor shower, Liane goes to Mr. Mackey's party, leaving Cartman to be babysat by Stan's 12-year-old sister, Shelley, who is an aggressive bully. While babysitting, she invites her 22-year-old boyfriend, Skyler, over, who in turn invites the rest of his rock band to rehearse (despite Liane specifically telling her not to have anyone over). Cartman is in his room, playing \"Wild Wild West\" and dressed up as Will Smith's version of Jim West from \"Wild Wild West\", but becomes upset with Shelley babysitting him and the boys practising (especially when the former gives him wedgies). Meanwhile, Mr. Kitty is in heat, much to Cartman's annoyance. Later, Skyler's bandmates leave in disgust after performing a song made by Shelley. In an effort to get her back, Cartman takes a picture of Shelley and Skyler about to kiss and tries to send it to his mother via Kitty, but Shelley finds the picture with the cat and removes it.\n\nKitty decides to go out in search of a tom. After an unsuccessful attempt with an overweight tom, she winds up seducing a large group of cats, and invites them back to Cartman's house and cracks open catnip. Eric tries to tell his mother that Shelley is breaking Liane's rule about having boys over, but she doesn't believe that Shelley would do such a thing. Back at home, during the meteor shower, Skyler gets mad at Shelly because she will not \"put out\" because she is 12 years old. Cartman has taped everything and is about to get Shelley in trouble, but instead comes to pity her when Skyler, angry that Shelley will not \"put out\" for him, breaks up with her and leaves her crying hysterically. \n\nCartman and Shelley decide to team up for revenge, and sneak into the woods near where Skyler lives. Cartman manages to entice Skyler out of his house with a taping of his Salma Hayek impersonation while Shelley sneaks in and destroys his prized guitar. They return home to find Kitty and many other cats engaged in a massive feline orgy. Skyler shows up, furious, but Cartman throws a box of catnip at Skyler, which attracts the clowder of cats, who attack and rape him. Mrs. Cartman returns home. Shelley and Cartman blame the mess on each other, but Liane, being inebriated, passes out without noticing the mess. Shelley, amazed that they got out of the situation unscathed, celebrates by dancing with Eric as he sings his version of the \"Wild, Wild West\" song.\n\nWhen Cartman takes the picture of Shelly and Skyler kissing, he exclaims \"Ha ha! Charade you are!\" which is the refrain of the Pink Floyd song \"Pigs (Three Different Ones).”\n\nCartman parodies the Newt character from the film \"Aliens\" several times, with a play on her original line of \"They mostly come at night...mostly\" (referring to the alien).\n\nThroughout the episode, while playing with his toys, Cartman makes allusions to the 1999 film \"Wild Wild West\". Coincidentally, \"Wild Wild West\" was released on the same day as \"\", two weeks before the original broadcast of this episode. The makers of \"South Park\" were disappointed that \"Wild Wild West\" performed better at the box office than their film despite \"Wild Wild West\" being critically panned; and some underage moviegoers snuck into the R-rated \"South Park\" film after having bought tickets to the PG-13-rated \"Wild Wild West\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1842419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842419", "title": "Karla (film)", "text": "Karla (film)\n\nKarla is a 2006 American psychological thriller film written and directed by Joel Bender, and co-written by Manette Rosen and Michael D. Sellers. It is based on the crimes of Canadian serial killers Paul Bernardo and Karla Homolka.\n\nOn 11 May 2000, a psychologist, Dr. Arnold, is conducting a session with Karla Homolka at Canada's Regional Psychiatric Centre in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Dr. Arnold's evaluation will determine Karla's eligibility for parole. During the session, Dr. Arnold shows Karla a photo album of herself, and her husband, Paul Bernardo, in happier times. Karla has a memory of how they first met. However, when Dr. Arnold introduces the subject of Karla's sister, Tammy Homolka, Karla becomes uncooperative.\n\nOver the following weeks, Dr. Arnold probes Karla about her knowledge of Paul's secret life as a serial rapist. It is revealed that shortly before their marriage, Paul began to rape women. Paul convinced Karla to help him rape Tammy on camera. At first Karla disagrees, but eventually steals Halcion from the veterinary clinic where she works.\n\nTammy gets drunk at a Christmas party and becomes unresponsive after the two drug her. Tammy is raped, and ends up getting sick while drugged, choking on her own vomit. Karla calls 911, and the two hide the assault evidence so her death would appear accidental. Afterwards, Paul beats Karla for \"ruining his movie\". Karla learns never to ruin Paul's \"movies\".\n\nKarla tells Dr. Arnold that Paul became obsessed with Tammy, and kept watching the video after her death, even showing it to friends. Paul also threatened to reveal Karla's role in her sister's murder, if he should get into any more trouble, but Karla finally leaves him anyway. Paul is open with Karla about his crimes, yet Karla does not object to them, even when Paul begins to bring his victims home. Although disturbed at that part of Paul's life, Karla learns to accept it, knowing that she too will be killed if she does not. At Paul's request, Karla hesitantly participates in these assaults.\n\nPaul kidnaps a young girl, \"Tina McCarthy\", and forces her to undress on camera. Karla witnesses this, but is too afraid to tell anyone. Tina is held for 3 days, and is raped repeatedly while Karla is forced to videotape it all. During one such assault, Paul strangles Tina after she sees his face. Karla tries to convince him not to kill her, but he insists, telling her that Tina can identify them both.\n\nHe cuts the body into pieces and seals them in cement blocks, which he then dumps into a lake. On the day of Paul and Karla's wedding, the girl's body is discovered, and identified by dental records. Paul stops raping and abducting for a time, but his anxiety and pent-up frustration cause him to become violent toward Karla. Paul's friends see the change in his personality and break off from him. Meanwhile Karla, suffering from the abuse and desperate to reclaim his affections, helps Paul abduct and rape another young girl, \"Kaitlyn Ross\".\n\nKaitlyn is brutally raped by Paul. Karla watches the assault and begins to cry. Paul beats Karla and tells her that she is ruining his movie again. After Paul leaves, Karla is put in charge of Kaitlyn. Kaitlyn tells Karla that she is a victim too, and that this is not her fault. When asked why she stays, Karla simply says, \"You don't understand\". Karla explains to Dr. Arnold that she wanted to free Kaitlyn, but was afraid Paul would kill her if she did.\n\nKaitlyn's disappearance immediately attracts a storm of media and police attention, so Paul kills her, to be rid of her. As part of the investigation, the police arrive at Paul's house. Paul is very cooperative so the police leave satisfied, but, afterwards, he beats Karla mercilessly. Karla takes refuge with friends before reporting the assault. Paul is then booked under domestic violence but is released after only one night in jail.\n\nBack at the Regional Psychiatric Centre, Dr. Arnold asks Karla about her relationship with her younger sister, Tammy, and her jealousy towards her, because of Paul's attraction to her. Karla confesses that Paul wanted to take Tammy's virginity and that he wanted Karla to \"give\" Tammy to him. Karla agreed to help him rape her sister.\n\nShortly thereafter, the DNA samples Paul provided as part of the Scarborough rape investigation, are matched to the evidence found on one of the murder victims. Both Paul and Karla are subsequently arrested. During the trial, Paul testifies that Karla killed Kaitlyn Ross with a mallet. Karla denies all the killings. Paul is convicted on two counts of murder without any possibility of parole. Karla is given a sentence of twelve years in exchange for a guilty plea for manslaughter.\n\nA note explains that Karla's parole was denied, as the psychologist found her artificial, manipulative, and without remorse.\n\n\nThe film was originally titled \"Deadly\" but was renamed \"Karla\" before its release. The script is based on court transcriptions, interviews and video shot by Homolka and Bernardo.\n\nThe film caused significant controversy in Canada, where the families of victims Kristen French and Leslie Mahaffy initially said that the film exploited the memory of their daughters. Politicians in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, including Attorney General Michael Bryant, called for a boycott of the film, and one Canadian theatre chain, Cineplex Odeon, stated that it would show the film only in its major urban markets in Toronto, Ontario, Montreal, Quebec and Ottawa, Ontario. The film was booked to debut at the 2005 Montreal World Film Festival, until a protest by Air Canada, a corporate sponsor of the festival, shelved the idea.\n\nLawyer Tim Danson, who represented the French and Mahaffy families, watched a private screening of the film in September with the families in attendance. The following month, he announced that the families would not oppose the film's Canadian release.\n\n\"Karla\" was deemed \"a creepy but botched work\" by Robert Koehler of \"Variety\", who felt that the film was marred by its \"choppy\" direction, its sub-par production values, and its \"confused\" and \"morally precarious\" depiction of Homolka, which Koehler felt undermined her complicity in Bernardo's actions, writing, \"There's a certain darkly suffocating quality to the chamber drama played out by these two sick souls, but the fact that the film is more willing to explicitly show Paul's constant beatings of Karla than the worst aspects of the killings underlines who is to be seen as the victim here.\" \"The Globe and Mail's\" Rick Groen was similarly critical of the film emphasizing Homolka's suffering over that of her and Bernardo's victims, and further opined that the picture was both \"inexcusably mundane\" and lacking in substance before awarding it a final score of 1½ out of a possible 4. Ken Eisner of \"The Georgia Straight\" condemned the film, deriding it as nothing more than a dull, clichéd, and \"slapdash portrait of serial killers\" that was completely devoid of \"depth, tension, or psychological insight.\"\n\nWhile Louis B. Hobson (who called the film \"disturbing\" and \"nauseating\") of the \"Calgary Sun\" praised Misha Collins and Laura Prepon's acting and the restraint that \"Karla\" showed by not depicting or exaggerating \"the worst excesses\" of the crimes that it was dramatizing, he went on to write, \"You don't recommend a movie such as \"Karla\", even if you can appreciate the performances that make it unnerving.\" The \"Winnipeg Sun's\" Pat St. Germaine lauded the film's acting, but also felt that it was a failure as a psychoanalytical character study, and concluded his review of it with, \"Those who choose to see \"Karla\" will exit the theatre with much food for thought, but it's hard to imagine anyone will be enriched by it.\" The film's inadequate exploration of Homolka's psyche was also a point of contention for \"Vue Weekly's\" Brian Gibson, who wrote, \"There is little ambiguity or tension at the core of this basically hollow karaoke version of the Bernardo-Homolka murders. Joel Bender's movie never resorts to gore-porn or sleaze-sationalism, avoiding any shots of Kristen French and Leslie Mahaffy (given different names here) being beaten or raped, and the simulations of Bernardo's horrific films offer no flashes of nudity that would make us feel complicit with the sexual predator. But \"Karla\" seldom probes its title character's own complicity.\" Bruce Kirkland of the \"Toronto Sun\" expressed annoyance over \"Karla's\" \"awkward\" and \"clumsy\" narrative, gave mild praise to both its stars' performances and its restrained portrayal of its subject matter, and ended his review of the film with, \"This film is not for the families of the victims, nor is it watchable by anyone with strong feelings about the case. For others less impassioned, however, it is a flawed yet largely accurate portrait of rapist-killer Bernardo and the psychotic woman who became his partner in crime.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1842422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842422", "title": "Ivan Efremov", "text": "Ivan Efremov\n\nIvan Efremov may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1842424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842424", "title": "Andrew Harman", "text": "Andrew Harman\n\nAndrew Harman is a science fiction and fantasy fiction author from the United Kingdom. His novels bear titles that pun on other famous works. Each work reflects its playful title, having a plot matching the work to which it alludes, with a humorous twist.\n\nMany of his novels are set in the fictional UK town of Camford, which is a hybridisation of the two university towns of Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nHis books are published under the Orbit imprint in the UK.\n\nAndrew Harman studied biochemistry at the University of York, being a member of Wentworth College.\n\nAndrew Harman has since moved on to create YAY Games, a UK independent publisher of board and card games. This award-winning company released \"Frankenstein's Bodies\" in 2014 – inspired by the works of Iain Lowson in his RPG \"Dark Harvest: The Legacy of Frankenstein\". This was followed in 2015 by the family friendly hit \"Sandcastles\" and 2016 sees the launch of \"Ominoes\" the brand new 6,000 year old game.\n\n\n\nNote: \"Beyond Belief\" (1998), which shows up in various Internet booklists, does not exist, as it was the working title that became \"It Came From On High\" – the satirical novel about what occurs when the Pope discovers that aliens exist.\n"}
{"id": "1842430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842430", "title": "Boston Custer", "text": "Boston Custer\n\nBoston Custer (October 31, 1848 – June 25, 1876) was the youngest brother of U.S. Army Lt Colonel George Armstrong Custer and two-time Medal of Honor recipient Captain Thomas Custer. He was killed at the Battle of the Little Bighorn along with his two brothers.\n\nBoston Custer was born in New Rumley, Ohio, one of five children born to Emanuel Henry Custer and Maria Ward Kirkpatrick Custer. In 1863, the family left Ohio and moved to Monroe, Michigan. Boston's older brother Nevin became a farmer due to asthma and rheumatism, while two other older brothers, George and Thomas (\"Tom\"), became military officers in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Boston had been unable to officially join the Army due to poor health.\n\nA civilian contractor, Custer served as forage master for his brother George's U.S. 7th Cavalry Regiment in the 1874 Black Hills expedition. He was employed as a guide, forager, packer and scout for the regiment for the 1876 expedition against the Lakota Indians. On June 25, 1876, along with his 18-year-old nephew Henry Armstrong \"Autie\" Reed, Custer was with the pack train at the rear of Lt. Col. George Custer's troops. Hearing from a messenger that Lt. Col. Custer had requested ammunition for an impending fight, they quickly left the pack train. The pair passed by Frederick Benteen's detachment and joined Custer's main column as it moved into position to attack a sprawling Indian village along the Little Big Horn River. Had they stayed with the pack train where they were assigned, Boston Custer and Autie Reed might have survived the battle.\n\nLike his brothers and nephew, Boston was killed at the area known as \"Last Stand Hill\". A marble marker commemorates the approximate place where his body was found and identified. Though originally buried on the battlefield, Autie Reed and Boston Custer's remains were exhumed, the only exceptions to the rule that only commissioned officers would be shipped home for reburial. They were reinterred January 8, 1878, at Woodland Cemetery in Monroe, Michigan, near today's Monroe County, Michigan Museum.\n\nBoston Custer was portrayed by actor Patrick Johnston in the biopic \"Son of the Morning Star\" (1991).\n\n"}
{"id": "1842434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842434", "title": "The Sound of Perseverance", "text": "The Sound of Perseverance\n\nThe Sound of Perseverance is the seventh and final studio album by American death metal band Death, released on August 31, 1998, by Nuclear Blast. This is the only album to feature guitarist Shannon Hamm, drummer Richard Christy, and bassist Scott Clendenin.\n\nIt was a breakthrough album for drummer and later radio star Richard Christy, in the tradition of previous drummers like Gene Hoglan and Sean Reinert. The album features \"Voice of the Soul\", an instrumental track that contrasts with almost every other work of the band in its inclusion of softer guitars and lack of percussion. In an interview done in March 1999, Chuck Schuldiner stated that the acoustic guitar-driven \"Voice of the Soul\" was actually written during the \"Symbolic\" sessions. Death has produced only two instrumentals (the other being the more electric guitar driven \"Cosmic Sea\" from \"Human\"). The album also featured a cover of Judas Priest's \"Painkiller\", which shows Schuldiner attempting a different, high-pitched style of death growl more reminiscent of Rob Halford's original vocals and also singing for the first time with a clean voice through the end of the song. All the solos in the song are rewritten.\n\nSome of the song names and music on \"The Sound of Perseverance\" were originally going to appear on the first Control Denied album, \"The Fragile Art of Existence\". Schuldiner himself denied this in an interview with Metal Maniacs in 1998 by saying that none of his compositions for Control Denied had been used to fill space for a Death album. Schuldiner implied that some Control Denied songs were used for \"The Sound of Perseverance\" in an interview with Scream Magazine in October 1999, when he stated that \"The Fragile Art of Existence\" \"contains a lot of music I didn't have in mind originally. Most of the material was completed in 1996-97.\" Also, Tim Aymar, in December 2010, confirmed that a few of the Control Denied songs had been, in his words, \"'Deathized' and recorded on TSOP.\" When Death was signed on to Nuclear Blast, Schuldiner agreed to make one last Death album before moving forward with Control Denied.\n\n\"Spirit Crusher\" was the single from this album. It featured a music video that was taken from their \"Live in Eindhoven\" performance.\n\nNuclear Blast released a deluxe edition in December 2005. It contains the original album as well as the DVD \"Live in Cottbus '98\" and press pictures. It was also released as a DualDisc.\n\nRelapse Records released a second deluxe edition on February 15, 2011. The album was remastered and reissued in deluxe 2-CD and 3-CD formats, with the additional CDs containing unreleased demo material and a revised cover by original cover artist Travis Smith.\n\n\"The Sound of Perseverance\" has received critical acclaim and is considered by fans and critics alike as one of Death’s greatest albums. Jason Hundey of Allmusic gave the album a 4.5 star review and described it as \"a truly glorious metal release, certainly Death's finest hour, and easily one of the top metal albums of all time\". Chronicles Of Chaos reviewer Paul Schwarz said the album \"excels in all the right places. Great thrashings, technical solos, memorable choruses and clear vocals are the order of the day\". He gave it 9/10 stars. About.com reviewed the 2011 reissue of the album and rated it 5 stars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842445", "title": "Ana Palacio", "text": "Ana Palacio\n\nAna Isabel de Palacio y del Valle Lersundi (born 22 July 1948) in Madrid, daughter of Luis María de Palacio y de Palacio, 4th Marqués de Matonte, and wife Luisa Mariana del Valle Lersundi y del Valle, was Spain's minister for foreign affairs in the People's Party (PP) government of José María Aznar from July 2002 to March 2004. Before this she was a lawyer in Madrid and then a Member of the European Parliament from 1994 to 2002. In March 2012, she was appointed an elective member of the Spanish Council of State. She currently is the founding partner of Palacio y Asociados, a Madrid-based consulting and law firm, and a senior strategic counsel at Albright Stonebridge Group, a global business strategy firm.\n\nPalacio graduated from the Lycée Français (Baccalauréat on Mathematics) with honors granted by the French Government to “the best foreign student who finished studies that year”. She holds degrees in law, and political science and sociology; her performance in her degree studies merited the Award for Academic Achievement (Premio Extraordinario Fin de Carrera).\n\nAs a lawyer, Palacio has held the most senior positions in the governing bodies of the Madrid Bar, as well as the European Bar (CCBE). She is an honorary member of the bar of England and Wales. She also served as a member of the board of trustees and former executive president of the Academy of European Law (ERA); and distinguished professor of the European College in Parma. She has worked as a practicing lawyer specializing in EU internal market law.\n\nPalacio spent eight years (1994–2002) with the European Parliament, where she chaired the Committee on Legal Affairs and Internal Market and the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, and was elected by her peers to chair in two half legislatures the Conference of Committee Chairmen, the Parliament's most senior body for the coordination of its legislative work. Inspired by legal legitimacy as the mark of identity of the EU, her main addresses and reports have pinpointed the legislation on internal market as well as the security area, especially focused on justice and home affairs and human rights.\n\nFrom 1995 until 1999, Palacio also served on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. In addition to her committee assignments, she was a member of the parliament's delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council from 1999 until 2002.\n\nAs part of a cabinet reshuffle, Prime Minister José María Aznar appointed Palacio as foreign minister, replacing Josep Piqué. She was the first woman to serve as Spain's foreign minister and, at the time, held the most senior post ever filled by a woman in the Spanish government.\n\nDuring her time in office, Spain and Morocco formally ended their 2002 military standoff over the uninhabited islet of Perejil, or Leila, and agreed to improve the highly charged relations between the two countries.\n\nPrior to her appointment to the World Bank, she served as member of the Spanish Parliament, representing Toledo, where she chaired the Joint Committee of the two Houses for European Union Affairs. As Prime Minister Aznar's representative to the European Convention and the convention's Presidium, Palacio was at the forefront of the debate on the future of the European Union and actively participated in the drafting and legal discussions pertaining the reform of the treaties governing the European Union.\n\nPalacio served on the UN High Level Commission on the Legal Empowerment of the Poor between 2005 and 2006.\n\nWorld Bank President Paul Wolfowitz announced on 19 June 2006 Palacio's appointment as senior vice-president and general counsel of the World Bank effective August 28, 2006. One of her primary duties, as general counsel, involved Palacio's serving as secretary general of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, which is the division of the World Bank responsible for administrating arbitrations and conciliation between individuals and states under investment protection treaties, concession agreements and other foreign investment protection instruments, including certain national investment laws.\n\nSince 2010, Palacio has been the founding partner of Palacio y Asociados, a Madrid-based consulting and law firm, and also serving as a senior strategic counsel for Albright Stonebridge Group, an international strategic consulting firm. She has been visiting professor of the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University since 2014.\n\nSince 2011, Palacio has written monthly comments on global strategy for international media organization Project Syndicate.\n\nIn addition, she currently holds various paid and unpaid positions.\n\n\n\nIn 2003, Palacio created together with other prominent European personalities the Medbridge Strategy Center, whose goal is to promote dialogue and mutual understanding between Europe and the Middle-East.\n\nIn January 2004 Palacio was listed among the \"Wall Street Journal\"’s 75 ‘global opinion leaders’. In October 2001 the same newspaper, under the heading \"Europe’s Lawyer\", published an extensive feature article on her in its supplement on \"12 influential players on the world business stage\". Among the awards and decorations she has been bestowed upon, she is the recipient of the 2004 American Jewish Committee Ramer Award for Diplomatic Excellence, which recognizes her role in upholding democracy and the values of open society.\n\nIn 2016, Palacio was awarded the Sandra Day O’Connor Justice Prize.\n\nIn December 2000, Palacio was diagnosed with cancer. She refused to wear a wig or a hat when the chemotherapy made her hair fall out. Her sister, Loyola de Palacio, was a minister in the Spanish government from 1996 to 1998, and a member of the European Commission from 1999 to 2004; she died of cancer in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842460", "title": "Age fabrication", "text": "Age fabrication\n\nAge fabrication occurs when a person deliberately misrepresents his or her true age. This is usually done with the intention to garner privileges or status that would not otherwise be available to that person (i.e., a minor misrepresenting their age in order to garner the privileges given to adults). It may be done through the use of oral or written statements or through the altering, doctoring or forging of vital records.\n\nOn some occasions, age is increased so as to make cut-offs for minimum legal or employable age in showbusiness or professional sports. Sometimes it is not the people themselves who lower their public age, but others around them such as publicists, parents, and other handlers. Most cases involve taking or adding one or two years to their age. However, in more extreme cases such as with Al Lewis and Charo, a decade has been added or subtracted. Official state documents (such as birth, marriage and death certificates, the census, and other identity documents) typically provide the correct date.\n\nAlthough uncommon in modern Western society, it is still possible for a person not to know their exact date of birth. Such a person may arbitrarily choose a date of birth which after later research is found to be false. This situation should not be considered age fabrication as there is no obvious intent to deceive on the part of the individual.\n\nSubtracting time from one's age is often known in English as \"shaving\", while adding time to one's age may be referred to as \"napping\".\n\nIn sports, people may falsify their age to make themselves appear younger thus enabling them to compete in world-level junior events (with prominent examples appearing in football (soccer) and athletics). In gymnastics, diving, and figure skating, competitors may claim to be older in order to bring themselves over the age minimums for senior competition or below an age limit for junior competition. A female pair skater may be aged up while her male partner may be aged down to allow them to compete together. In some cases, they may feel pressure to change their ages. As these fabrications have an effect upon a person's performance (through the greater athleticism of age or greater flexibility of youth), the practice is known as age cheating in the field of sports.\n\n\nAge fabrication is common in the entertainment industry. Many actresses subtract at least one year from their actual age so that producers and casting directors will be more likely to hire them for roles, or for publicity purposes. \"Time\" joked in 1949:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842464", "title": "Le Mans Prototype", "text": "Le Mans Prototype\n\nA Le Mans Prototype (LMP) is the type of sports prototype race car used in the 24 Hours of Le Mans, FIA World Endurance Championship, WeatherTech SportsCar Championship, European Le Mans Series and Asian Le Mans Series. Le Mans Prototypes were created by the Automobile Club de l'Ouest (ACO). The technical requirements for an LMP include bodywork covering all mechanical elements of the car.\n\nWhile not as fast as open-wheel Formula One cars, LMPs are the fastest closed-wheel racing cars used in circuit racing. Le Mans Prototypes are considered a class above production-based grand tourer cars, which compete alongside them in sports car racing.\n\nModern LMP designs include hybrid cars that use electric motors to assist acceleration. The Le Mans Prototype LMP1 class will be replaced by Le Mans Hypercars in the FIA World Endurance Championship, and the 24 Hours of Le Mans from the 2021 season, but LMP1 cars will be eligible to be \"grandfathered\" for one final season, to compete alongside the new class for the 2021 season.\n\nLe Mans Prototypes have used various names depending on the series in which they compete. The FIA's equivalent cars were referred to as \"Sports Racers\" (SR) or \"Sports Racing Prototypes\" (SRP). The American IMSA GT Championship termed their cars \"World Sports Cars\"' (WSC), while the short-lived United States Road Racing Championship used the classic \"Can-Am\" (CA) name for their prototypes. Since 2004, most series have switched to referring to these cars as \"Le Mans Prototypes\". The American Le Mans Series, the successor to the IMSA GT Championship and the predecessor of the TUDOR United SportsCar Championship, officially referred to the cars simply as \"Prototypes\" (P1, P2, or PC). An LMP is commonly referred to as a \"Le Mans car\" in the media.\n\nThe first use of what would become Le Mans Prototypes was at the 1992 24 Hours of Le Mans. In an attempt to increase the number of entrants beyond the small field of Group C competitors that the World Sportscar Championship had to offer, older Porsche 962s were allowed entry in Category 3. To further increase the size of the field, small open-cockpit race cars using production road car engines which were raced in small national championships, were allowed in Category 4. Only three cars (a Debora-Alfa Romeo, a Ren-Car Peugeot and a WR-Peugeot) were entered, with all failing to run more than a few hours.\n\nHowever at the end of 1992, the World Sportscar Championship as well as the All Japan Sports Prototype Championship collapsed, leaving the expensive Group C prototypes little competition outside Le Mans. With Group C being phased out, the ACO chose to allow production-based race cars to enter for the first time in many years, while at the same time creating the Le Mans Prototype (LMP) class. The cars continued to use the same formula as they had in 1992.\n\nLater, ACO announced their intentions to completely replace the Group C cars with \"Le Mans Prototypes\" in 1994. Two classes were created, with LMP1s running large displacement custom-built engines that were usually turbocharged, and LMP2s using the smaller displacement production-based engines. Both classes were required to have open cockpits. However, LMP1 cars that year were just former Group C cars, still with closed cockpits (Toyota 94C-V, Courage C32, Kremer K8, Porsche 962 GTI, ALD C289 and Alpa LM). At the same time, the IMSA GT Championship announced the end of their closed cockpit GTP and Lights classes, deciding as well to replace them with a single open-cockpit class of \"World Sports Cars\" equivalent to LMP1.\nThis formula continued up to 1996, with many manufacturers embracing the LMP and WSC classes, including Ferrari, Porsche, and Mazda. In 1997, the first European series based around Le Mans Prototypes was launched, known as the \"International Sports Racing Series\". Using classes similar to LMP1/WSC and LMP2, these cars were known as \"SR1\" and \"SR2\" by the FIA. 1998 saw the creation of another series of Le Mans Prototypes, with the new United States Road Racing Championship (USRRC) attempting to break away from the IMSA GT Championship. To differ from IMSA'S WSC class, the USRRC named their open-cockpit prototypes \"Can-Am\" in an attempt to resurrect the sportscar championship of the 1970s. However the USRRC collapsed before the end of 1999, with the series becoming the Rolex Sports Car Series who chose to use the FIA's SR1 and SR2 formula instead.\n\n1998 saw a great expansion for the ACO's LMP classes. Following the cancellation of the IMSA GT Championship at the end of 1998, the ACO allowed for the creation of the American Le Mans Series. This series used the same class structure as the 24 Hours of Le Mans, meaning it was the first championship to use the LMP name. At the same time, the ACO greatly altered their LMP classes. The smaller LMP2 class were briefly eliminated, while a new class of closed-cockpit prototypes were allowed in, known as \"LMGTP\" (Le Mans grand touring prototype). These cars were evolutions of production-based road cars that the ACO considered too advanced and too fast to fall under the GT class regulations, forcing the ACO to promote them to prototypes.\nIn 2000, changes were made to the LMP regulations, as the ACO once again split the open-cockpit LMP class. The two new classes became known as \"LMP900\" and \"LMP675\", with the numbers denoting the minimum weight requirements (in kilograms) for each class. The LMP900s were to be more powerful and faster in top speed, but also heavier and more cumbersome. The LMP675s were to be smaller and more nimble, yet lack the top speed of the larger class. Both classes were intended to be able to compete for overall wins. Audi, Chrysler, Cadillac, and Panoz opted to use the LMP900 formula, while MG were the only major manufacturer to attempt the LMP675 class. The LMGTP class also continued, with Bentley being the only manufacturer to build a closed-cockpit prototype after the regulation changes in 2000.\n\nOutside Le Mans, the FIA's SR classes suffered from these rule changes. The SR2 class no longer aligned perfectly with the new LMP675 class, with the more powerful and durable racing engines that were allowed there. The SR1 and LMP900 classes also did not use the same rules, although engines were mostly similar. This meant that teams competing in the newly renamed FIA Sportscar Championship required modifications to their cars to be able to compete at Le Mans and in the new European Le Mans Series (ELMS), a second series split from the American Le Mans Series. With FIA Sportscar Championship teams unwilling to modify their cars to run in the ELMS, that series was canceled due to lack of participants. However the demand to race at Le Mans eventually forced the FIA Sportscar Championship itself to be canceled in 2003, with most competitors choosing to comply with the ACO's regulations instead of the FIA's. With the Rolex Sports Car Series also abandoning their SR classes at the end of 2003 for their own unique Daytona Prototypes, this meant that the ACO LMPs were the only open-cockpit prototypes left.\nWith the prototype classes now unified under the ACO's rules, the class structure was once again reorganized. The LMP675 class was considered a failure, due to the small engines lacking the reliability necessary to compete for overall wins, regardless of any advantage they had with cornering and weight. The LMGTP class was also considered redundant since the cars had only minor rule differences from LMP900s. Thus, the classes were changed to LMP1 and LMP2, with the top class once again being larger and more powerful. However the smaller LMP2 class was now intended solely for privateers, with major manufacturers encouraged to move to LMP1. This meant LMP2s were no longer meant to run for overall race wins. Since the LMGTP class was eliminated, both LMP1 and LMP2 were allowed to have either open- or closed-cockpit designs. These new rules also added increased safety requirements, including larger rollover hoops and aerodynamic plates attached to the rear of the cars in order to prevent prototypes from becoming airborne in accidents.\n\nThe LMP1 and LMP2 classes continue to be used at the 24 Hours of Le Mans and in the newer championships that were created by the ACO: the Le Mans Series in 2004 and the Japan Le Mans Challenge in 2006. In 2004, the ACO renamed LMP900 back to LMP1, and with this they limited the rear wing to 1.9m and reduced the fuel tank capacity from 90L to 80L. This was done in an effort to promote new hybrid LMP1 cars while putting more restrictions on the aging LMP900 cars like the Audi R8. New safety measures were also brought in, and prototypes were now required to have two rollover bars instead of one. The final year that LMP900 chassis were allowed to be entered was 2006.\n\nIn 2009, LMP2 restrictors were brought down from 45.5mm to 43.5mm.\n\nFrom 2017, in order to limit the costs, FIA introduced a new set of regulations, which will be locked in through 2020, aiming a significant power increase, to the range of 150 horsepower (which is expected to lead to a four-second decrease in lap time at Le Mans).\nGibson Technology is the exclusive engine supplier for LMP2, producing a four-litre normally-aspirated V8.\n\nDallara, Onroak Automotive (Ligier), Oreca and the joint-venture Riley Tech/Multimatic were selected by FIA as the four exclusive chassis constructors for LMP2, which must be \nclosed-cockpit designs.\n\nBiofuels, specifically petrol with 10% ethanol and biodiesel (BTL), are allowed in both LMP1 and LMP2 categories.\nThe main technical regulations for LMP class cars are:\n\nThe fuel tank size and minimum weight for non-hybrid cars is subject to adjustment to reduce the difference in performance between hybrid and non-hybrid cars.\n\nThere are no limits on the number of cylinders for any type of engine.\n\nBodywork is required to cover all mechanical elements of the car, so that they cannot be visible when the car is viewed directly from the front, side, or top.\n\nThe LMP1 cars are generally the most powerful, with higher straight-line speeds.\n\nUntil 2016, LMP2 allowed both open and closed-cockpit designs (closed cars must have a windscreen, a roof, and doors on each side), while only closed-cockpit design is allowed for LMP1 as it is much faster and safer. As of 2011, all cars must have fins on the rear bodywork to prevent them from rolling over in the air during crashes. Although a passenger seat is not used, cars must be designed to carry two people. The empty area of the cockpit is usually used to hold electronic devices and cooling equipment. Only production-based engines were allowed in LMP2 with diesel engines permitted from 2013 onward.\n\nFrom 2017, in order to limit the costs, FIA introduced a new set of regulations, which will be locked in through 2020, aiming a significant power increase, to the range of 150 horsepower (which is expected to lead to a four-second decrease in lap time at Le Mans).\nGibson Technology is the exclusive engine supplier, producing a 4.2-litre naturally-aspirated V8, producing about 600 bhp\n\nDallara, Onroak Automotive (Ligier), Oreca and the joint-venture Riley Tech/Multimatic were selected by FIA as the four exclusive chassis constructors, which must be \nclosed-cockpit designs. \n\nThe Daytona Prototype International class (DPi) is based on the 2017 LMP2 rules, and features custom bodywork and engines by road car manufacturers.\n\nLMP3 is an entry-level prototype class intended for introducing young drivers and new teams to endurance racing before they progress to the higher classes of prototype racing, LMP2 and ultimately LMP1. LMP3 uses closed-cockpit chassis, which can be built by any licensed constructor, powered by a 5-litre normally-aspirated Nissan V8 engine. The class is in use since 2015. In 2017, the International Motor Sports Association announced the addition of the LMP3 cars to the IMSA Prototype Challenge, becoming the top class in the category; this allows the vehicle to race in either series.\n\nThe cars currently eligible for use in the class are: Ginetta-Juno P3, Ligier JS P3, Norma M30, ADESS-03, and the Ave-Riley AR-02. The cars are eligible in a number of series, such as the Asian Le Mans Series, the European Le Mans Series, as well as the V de V Endurance Series and the IMSA Prototype Challenge. A number of championships for the class have also been created, such as the FRD LMP3 series and the British LMP3 Cup.\n\nA 2nd Generation ruleset will be introduced for 2020, with new cars set to be introduced, namely the Ginetta G61-LT-P3, Ligier JS P320, Duqueine D-08, and the ADESS-03 Evo. These cars can be built from its predecessors using an upgrade kit. \n\nLMPC (Le Mans Prototype Challenge) was an earlier entry level class, introduced in 2009, consisting of competitors running identical Oreca FLM09 cars. The class was dropped in European Le Mans Series in 2014. As the cost of running an LMPC team was found to be comparable to that for an LMP2 team, the class was dropped after the 2017 season in the WeatherTech SportsCar Championship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842477", "title": "Prosthaphaeresis", "text": "Prosthaphaeresis\n\nProsthaphaeresis (from the Greek \"προσθαφαίρεσις\") was an algorithm used in the late 16th century and early 17th century for approximate multiplication and division using formulas from trigonometry. For the 25 years preceding the invention of the logarithm in 1614, it was the only known generally applicable way of approximating products quickly. Its name comes from the Greek \"prosthesis\" (πρόσθεσις) and \"aphaeresis\" (ἀφαίρεσις), meaning addition and subtraction, two steps in the process.\n\nIn sixteenth century Europe, celestial navigation of ships on long voyages relied heavily on ephemerides to determine their position and course. These voluminous charts prepared by astronomers detailed the position of stars and planets at various points in time. The models used to compute these were based on spherical trigonometry, which relates the angles and arc lengths of spherical triangles (see diagram, right) using formulas such as:\n\nand\n\nwhere \"a\", \"b\" and \"c\" are the angles subtended at the centre of the sphere by the corresponding arcs.\n\nWhen one quantity in such a formula is unknown but the others are known, the unknown quantity can be computed using a series of multiplications, divisions, and trigonometric table lookups. Astronomers had to make thousands of such calculations, and because the best method of multiplication available was long multiplication, most of this time was spent taxingly multiplying out products.\n\nMathematicians, particularly those who were also astronomers, were looking for an easier way, and trigonometry was one of the most advanced and familiar fields to these people. Prosthaphaeresis appeared in the 1580s, but its originator is not known for certain; its contributors included the mathematicians Ibn Yunis, Johannes Werner, Paul Wittich, Joost Bürgi, Christopher Clavius, and François Viète. Wittich, Yunis, and Clavius were all astronomers and have all been credited by various sources with discovering the method. Its most well-known proponent was Tycho Brahe, who used it extensively for astronomical calculations such as those described above. It was also used by John Napier, who is credited with inventing the logarithms that would supplant it.\n\nNicholas Copernicus mentions 'prosthaphaeresis' several times in his 1543 work \"De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestium\", meaning the \"great parallax\" caused by the displacement of the observer due to the Earth's annual motion.\n\nThe trigonometric identities exploited by prosthaphaeresis relate products of trigonometric functions to sums. They include the following:\n\nThe first two of these are believed to have been derived by Jost Bürgi, who related them to [Tycho?] Brahe; the others follow easily from these two. If both sides are multiplied by 2, these formulas are also called the Werner formulas.\n\nUsing the second formula above, the technique for multiplication of two numbers works as follows:\n\nFor example, say we want to multiply formula_11 and formula_12. Following the steps:\n\nIf we want the product of the cosines of the two initial values, which is useful in some of the astronomical calculations mentioned above, this is surprisingly even easier: only steps 3 and 4 above are necessary.\n\nTo divide, we exploit the definition of the secant as the reciprocal of the cosine. To divide formula_27 by formula_28, we scale the numbers to formula_29 and formula_30. The cosine of formula_31 is formula_32 . Then use a table of secants to find out that formula_30 is the secant of formula_34. This means that formula_35 is the cosine of formula_34, and so we can multiply formula_32 by formula_35 using the above procedure. Average the cosine of the sum of the angles, formula_39, with the cosine of their difference, formula_40\nScaling up to locate the decimal point gives the approximate answer, formula_44\n\nAlgorithms using the other formulas are similar, but each using different tables (sine, inverse sine, cosine, and inverse cosine) in different places. The first two are the easiest because they each only require two tables. Using the second formula, however, has the unique advantage that if only a cosine table is available, it can be used to estimate inverse cosines by searching for the angle with the nearest cosine value.\n\nNotice how similar the above algorithm is to the process for multiplying using logarithms, which follows these steps: scale down, take logarithms, add, take inverse logarithm, scale up. It's no surprise that the originators of logarithms had used prosthaphaeresis.\nIndeed the two are closely related mathematically. In modern terms, prosthaphaeresis can be viewed as relying on the logarithm of complex numbers, in particular on Euler's formula:\n\nIf all the operations are performed with high precision, the product can be as accurate as desired. Although sums, differences, and averages are easy to compute with high precision, even by hand, trigonometric functions and especially inverse trigonometric functions are not. For this reason, the accuracy of the method depends to a large extent on the accuracy and detail of the trigonometric tables used.\n\nFor example, a sine table with an entry for each degree can be off by as much as 0.0087 if we just round an angle off to the nearest degree; each time we double the size of the table (for example by giving entries for every half-degree instead of every degree) we halve this error. Tables were painstakingly constructed for prosthaphaeresis with values for every second, or 3600th of a degree.\n\nInverse sine and cosine functions are particularly troublesome, because they become steep near −1 and 1. One solution is to include more table values in this area. Another is to scale the inputs to numbers between −0.9 and 0.9. For example, 950 would become 0.095 instead of 0.950.\n\nAnother effective approach to enhancing the accuracy is linear interpolation, which chooses a value between two adjacent table values. For example, if we know the sine of 45° is about 0.707 and the sine of 46° is about 0.719, we can estimate the sine of 45.7° as 0.707 × (1 − 0.7) + 0.719 × 0.7 = 0.7154.\n\nThe actual sine is 0.7157. A table of cosines with only 180 entries combined with linear interpolation is as accurate as a table with about 45000 entries without it. Even a quick estimate of the interpolated value is often much closer than the nearest table value. See lookup table for more details.\n\nThe product formulas can also be manipulated to obtain formulas that express addition in terms of multiplication. Although less useful for computing products, these are still useful for deriving trigonometric results:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842478", "title": "Languages of Uganda", "text": "Languages of Uganda\n\nUganda is a multilingual country. Forty three of its living languages fall into four main families—Bantu, Nilotic and Central Sudanic—with another two languages in the Kuliak family. Of these, 41 are indigenous and 2 are non-indigenous. Furthermore, 5 are institutional, 27 are developing, 7 are vigorous, 2 are in trouble, and 2 are dying.\n\nEnglish, inherited from the colonial period, is the official language. There is also a Ugandan Sign Language.\n\nIn all of the Bantu speaking areas of Uganda, dialect continua are very common. For example, people around Mbarara speak Runyankore and people from Fort Portal in Tooro Kingdom speak Rutooro, but in the area between those towns, there are villages where most of the people speak a dialect that is best characterised as intermediate between Runyankore and Rutooro. In recognition of the closeness of four of these languages (Runyankore, Rutooro, Rukiga and Runyoro), and to facilitate work in them such as teaching, a standardised version called \"Runyakitara\" was developed around 1990.\n\nIn south central Uganda, the Bantu languages of Luganda and Lusoga are largely interintelligible. This dialectic similarity also extends to the Lussese language spoken in the Ssese Islands of Lake Victoria.\n\nOf Nilo-Saharan, the Eastern Sudanic branch is well represented by several Nilotic languages, eastern as well as western. Eastern Nilotic languages include Karamojong of eastern Uganda (population 370,000), the Bari languages in the extreme north-western corner (about 150,000 population) and Teso south of Lake Kyoga (999,537 population). Alur (population 459,000), Acholi, Lango, Adhola and Kuman of eastern Uganda are Western Nilotic Luo languages. (Acholi and Lango are interintelligible, and sometimes the term \"Luo\" is used to cover them.)\n\nSome southern Nilotic Kalenjin languages are spoken along the border with Kenya, including Pokot and the Elgon languages near Kupsabiny. The eastern Ugandan Kuliak languages Ik and Soo are also members of the Eastern Sudanic branch. Lugbara, Aringa, Ma'di and Ndo of north-western Uganda are languages of the Central Sudanic branch of Nilo-Saharan.\n\nIn Uganda, as in many African countries, English was introduced in government and public life by way of missionary work and the educational system. During the first decades of the twentieth century, Swahili gained influence as it was not only used in the army and the police, but was also taught in schools. The Ganda viewed the introduction of Swahili as a threat to their political power and partly through their influence, English remained the only official language at that time. \n\nUpon Uganda's independence in 1962, English was maintained as the official language, as it was already rooted deeply in administration, media and education. Also, Uganda's ethnolinguistic diversity made it difficult to choose another language as the official language of Uganda.\n\nAfter independence, there were efforts to choose an indigenous official language, with Swahili and Luganda as the most considered candidates. Although Luganda was the most geographically spread language, people outside Buganda were opposed to having it as a national language, as were those of the Buganda kingdom because they felt other tribes' mispronunciation and grammar errors would ruin their language. English remained the official language.\n\nThe native languages of the Ugandan people have influenced Ugandan English.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842490", "title": "Mount Kearsarge (Merrimack County, New Hampshire)", "text": "Mount Kearsarge (Merrimack County, New Hampshire)\n\nMount Kearsarge is a mountain located in Wilmot, New Hampshire, and Warner, New Hampshire. Two state parks are located at the northern and southern bases of the mountain—Winslow State Park and Rollins State Park, respectively—and the entire mountain is within Kearsarge Mountain State Forest. On a very clear day, skyscrapers in the city of Boston away are visible from the fire tower on the summit. The summit has remained bare since a 1796 forest fire.\n\nThe name of the mountain evolved from a 1652 rendering of the native Pennacook tribal name for the mountain, \"Carasarga\", which it is surmised means \"notch-pointed-mountain of pines\".\n\nKearsarge is a monadnock, and although of only moderate elevation, its isolation gives it of relative height above the low ground separating it from the higher mountains farther north. That makes Kearsarge one of twelve mountains in New Hampshire with a prominence over .\n\nMount Kearsarge stands within the watershed of the Merrimack River, which drains into the Gulf of Maine. The western slopes of the mountain drain into Cascade Brook, which flows north to the Blackwater River, a stream which flows around the northern and eastern base of Kearsarge, eventually draining into the Contoocook River, a tributary of the Merrimack. The northern and eastern slopes of the mountain drain more directly into the Blackwater River. The southern face of Mount Kearsarge drains into Meadow Brook, a tributary of the Warner River, which flows southeast to the Contoocook River.\n\nKearsarge is a popular hiking destination. The summit is the high point along the Sunapee-Ragged-Kearsarge Greenway hiking trail which links 10 towns and encircles the Kearsarge-Lake Sunapee region of western New Hampshire. The quickest route to the top is from the Rollins State Park picnic area on the mountain's south ridge, accessible via Kearsarge Mountain Road from the town of Warner. Access on the mountain's western side is from the picnic area of Winslow State Park via the Winslow Trail (1.1 mi) or the Barlow Trail (1.6 mi.), built in 1997 by Trailwrights, a volunteer trail group, for the SRK Greenway. The full Greenway section hike on Mt. Kearsarge covers from Winslow picnic area via the Barlow Trail to the summit and via the Rollins and Lincoln trails southwesterly to Kearsarge Valley Road in North Sutton.\n\nThe Winslow Trail and the state park on the Wilmot side are named after Admiral John Winslow, the commander of the USS \"Kearsarge\", which in June 1864 sank the CSS \"Alabama\" in the English Channel in a famous Civil War sea battle. More directly, the park is named after a hotel that stood on the grounds, the Winslow House, site of the current picnic grounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842500", "title": "Spun", "text": "Spun\n\nSpun is a 2002 American black comedy crime drama film directed by Jonas Åkerlund from an original screenplay by William De Los Santos and Creighton Vero, based on three days of De Los Santos' life in the Eugene, Oregon drug subculture. The film stars Jason Schwartzman, John Leguizamo, Mena Suvari, Patrick Fugit, Peter Stormare, Alexis Arquette, Deborah Harry, Rob Halford, Eric Roberts, Chloe Hunter, Nicholas Gonzalez, Brittany Murphy and Mickey Rourke.\n\nIt is Åkerlund's debut as a feature film director, having already become known for his work in music videos. The film was shot in 22 days, and centers on various people involved in a methamphetamine drug ring. The film blends elements of dark comedy and drama in its storytelling. Its title is a reference to the slang term for the way users feel after going multiple days without sleep while on a methamphetamine binge. The characters take a combined total of 23 \"hits\" during the course of the movie.\n\nRoss (Jason Schwartzman) is a customer of Spider Mike (John Leguizamo), a methamphetamine dealer. Spider Mike and his girlfriend Cookie (Mena Suvari) are constantly arguing, and Ross strikes up a friendship with Nikki (Brittany Murphy), a fellow addict. Nikki takes Ross to meet her boyfriend, \"The Cook\" (Mickey Rourke), who supplies Spider Mike with drugs from a meth lab he has set up in a motel room. The Cook gives a small amount of meth to Ross in exchange for bringing Nikki home, and says that he will get in touch with Ross if he needs a driver.\n\nBack at his apartment, Ross gets messages from his mother and his former girlfriend, Amy, wishing him a happy birthday. Ross, assuming that Amy still loves him, sporadically calls her and leaves messages on her answering machine. He then goes to the local strip club while high, leading to an intense pornographic hallucination. He takes April (Chloe Hunter), one of the dancers he has a relationship with, home and has sex with her in a variety of positions, the last of which leaves her tied to the bed naked. As they finish, the Cook calls with an emergency regarding Nikki's dog, Taco, which needs to be taken to the veterinarian. April tells him to untie her but Ross, still high, duct-tapes April's eyes and mouth shut to keep her quiet and leaves her bound to the bed, playing music to cover her gagged screams. Elsewhere, two policemen (Peter Stormare and Alexis Arquette) working with a TV crew raid the trailer where Frisbee (Patrick Fugit), another one of Spider Mike's customers, lives, falsely believing that a meth lab is located there. They take Frisbee and his overweight mother into custody and threaten him into helping them on a drug bust against Spider Mike.\n\nAfter driving the Cook around town to buy ephedrine pills, beer, and pornography, Ross returns to his apartment to apologize to April. In the Cook's motel room, he and Nikki have a fight after a prostitute arrives in response to the Cook's inviting her around. Nikki ends their relationship, and calls Ross and asks him to take her to a bus station so she can go back to Las Vegas, which Ross does, again leaving April still tied to the bed. While Ross and Nikki are out, Frisbee, now wearing a wire, visits Spider Mike to buy some meth so the cops can arrest him. When he enters, Cookie attempts to seduce him, as revenge for Spider Mike using a phone sex line, but finds the wire. As the cops burst in, a furious Spider Mike shoots Frisbee in the testicles; Spider Mike and Cookie are both arrested, and Frisbee is taken to the hospital. After Ross and Nikki go back to his apartment and find April gone (rescued by his lesbian neighbor (Deborah Harry)), Ross finally drops Nikki off at the bus station, where they share a kiss, and hope to reunite if he ever goes to Vegas.\n\nMeanwhile, the Cook's meth lab catches fire and destroys the motel room; he flees to the adult film store, where he is arrested after the owner (Rob Halford) calls the police. Once the Cook makes bail, he calls Ross asking for a ride to another dealer's house in the city, which Ross agrees to do so that he can see Amy, who also lives in the city. The dealer provides the Cook with cash, some meth, and the equipment to start a new lab. The Cook promises Ross six months' worth of meth in exchange for being his chauffeur; he agrees on the condition that he can see Amy first. Amy, who has gotten her life together, wants no part of him after seeing that he still uses drugs and can only give her $100 of the $450 he owes her. As all the other characters go to sleep, the Cook drives a depressed Ross out to an old trailer in the countryside. Ross naps in his car as the Cook sets up a new lab in the trailer, only to blow it and himself up in the process.\n\n\nCameos\nThe film received mixed reactions, with some analysts remarking that the film added nothing new to the genre of drug movies. \"Time Out London\" was particularly harsh, accusing the film of \"smug amoralism\", and claiming that Åkerlund simply re-uses other people's ideas and techniques.\n\nRoger Ebert was more sympathetic in his review, where he described the film as having \"effortless wickedness\". His main appraisal is the fact that the film in no way attempts to romanticise any of the characters and further goes on to say, \"it's interesting how this story and these people seem to have been living before the movie began and will continue after it is over; instead of a plot, we drop in on their lives\". Ebert does, however, explicitly mention the similarities between this and the earlier \"Requiem for a Dream\". This comparison may not have been lost on the filmmakers. The title on a pornographic tape purchased by a character reads \"Rectum for a Dream\", and the scenes which show consumption of the drug also show its dilating effect on the pupils in fast cutscenes.\n\nThe original music for \"Spun\" was written by Billy Corgan. The soundtrack to the film features songs by artists such as Iron Maiden and UFO (performed by The Djali Zwan), Ozzy Osbourne, Mötley Crüe, Blues Traveler, Bathory (for whom Åkerlund previously played drums), Richie Havens, Phantom Planet (with whom Jason Schwartzman played drums at the time), Per Gessle (half of Roxette), Paola, and Satyricon, whose video for the song \"Mother North\" appears in the movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842509", "title": "A Midsummer Night's Gene", "text": "A Midsummer Night's Gene\n\nA Midsummer Night's Gene is a science fiction parody novel of Shakespeare's play \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", written by Andrew Harman and published in 1997 by Random House. It reflects the plot of the original play only slightly. It concentrates on two of the fairies and follows their attempts to play with genetic engineering in a modern English town.\n"}
{"id": "1842510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842510", "title": "List of settlements in the Xanthi regional unit", "text": "List of settlements in the Xanthi regional unit\n\nThis is a list of settlements in the Xanthi regional unit, Greece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842516", "title": "Preußenschlag", "text": "Preußenschlag\n\nThe Preußenschlag of 1932 (, \"Prussian coup\"), also known in English as the coup in Prussia or the putsch in Prussia, was the takeover of the Free State of Prussia, the largest State of German Reich, by Chancellor Franz von Papen, using an emergency decree issued by President Paul von Hindenburg under Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution on July 20, 1932.\n\nIt was a major step towards the end of the Weimar Republic, as it later facilitated the Nazification () of Germany (then Deutsches Reich) after Adolf Hitler's rise to power on 30 January 1933.\n\nThe pretext for this measure was violent unrest in some areas of Prussia and the alleged inability of the Prussian government to handle the matter. The main trigger was the \"\" (\"Altona Bloody Sunday\"), a violent clash between the SA and Communists in Altona on 17 July 1932. 18 people died, 16 of them by police bullets. It is more likely however that the Prussian government headed by Minister-President Otto Braun, with authority over the powerful Prussian police force, was simply one of the last major forces standing in the way of Papen's plans for nationalist rule.\n\nThe move was facilitated by the unstable situation of the Prussian government. The centre-left coalition of the Social Democrats, Centre Party and liberal German Democratic Party had ruled Prussia without interruption since 1918, but had lost its majority in the Landtag (state parliament) in the election on 24 April 1932. However, under the Prussian constitution, a government could be removed from office only if there was a positive majority for a prospective successor. This provision, known as a \"constructive vote of no confidence,\" was intended to ensure that a government had sufficient support to govern.\n\nThe Communists and National Socialists held over half the seats between them, but would not cooperate with each other or with other parties. Thus, no politically realistic alternative government was possible, and the Braun-led coalition remained in office.\n\nHowever, Papen also lacked majority support in the Reichstag. His only means to govern was through the emergency provisions of Article 48, and hence via decrees issued by the \"Reichspräsident\" Hindenburg, over whom Papen had great influence. The emergency decree of July 20 dismissed the Braun government and declared Papen \"Reichskommissar\" (Reich Commissioner) for Prussia, vested in him all the competences of the Prussian ministries, and gave him direct control over the Prussian government.\n\nThe decree was declared partially unconstitutional on October 25, 1932, by the German , but only in so far as the formal existence of the Prussian cabinet was concerned. The transfer of power to Papen was upheld, while the Braun cabinet retained the right to represent Prussia in the Reichsrat.\n\nPrussia remained under direct administration of the federal government until April 1933. The Enabling Act of 1933 gave Hitler the effective power to enact legislation (including extraconstitutional laws) without the consent of the Reichstag. One of Hitler's uses of the Enabling Act was to dissolve all of the state parliaments (except Prussia's) and reconstitute them based on the results of the partly-free federal election held in March (with the exception of Communist seats). Prussia was excluded from this measure because it had held state elections at the same time, with a similar result (a Nazi plurality). With the Communists now banned and most Social Democrats either jailed or in exile (the SPD would be banned outright in June), the Nazis now had a majority in the Prussian parliament, which elected Hermann Göring as Minister-President. However, under Hitler's rule, German states were effectively replaced by Nazi \"Gaue\", so Göring's post was largely ceremonial.\n\nThe state of Prussia was finally dissolved by the Allies after the end of World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842530", "title": "Live in Eindhoven", "text": "Live in Eindhoven\n\nLive in Eindhoven is the second live album by American band Death. It was recorded in Eindhoven, Netherlands at Dynamo Open Air in May 1998 and released on October 30, 2001, through Nuclear Blast. The album was also released in DVD format. The performance of \"Spirit Crusher\" was released as a music video. It was their final release before Chuck Schuldiner succumbed to brain cancer.\n\nThe album was not remastered for sound and captured the original sound from the live performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842538", "title": "Marv Rotblatt", "text": "Marv Rotblatt\n\nMarvin Rotblatt (October 18, 1927 – July 16, 2013), nicknamed \"Rotty\", was a left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball for the Chicago White Sox in the , and seasons. His ERAs in 1948 (7.85) and 1950 (6.23) were the highest in the majors. He failed to get a base hit in fifteen career at-bats.\n\nRotblatt was born in Chicago, where his father, a Jewish immigrant from Poland, owned a lamp business. He was Jewish.\n\nHe attended Von Steuben High School in Chicago. Before playing professional baseball, Rotblatt played for the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The 1947-48 team won the Big Nine Championship.\n\nHis minor league Southern Association record included a season-high 202 strikeouts and a no-hitter.\n\nListed at 5' 6\", Rotblatt has been considered one of the shortest pitchers in Major League history. As a result, in 1951 he appeared on \"You Bet Your Life\", the television quiz show hosted by Groucho Marx, after being selected at an audition over his pitching teammate Bob Cain, who knew something about short players. While pitching for the 1951 Detroit Tigers, Cain walked Eddie Gaedel, a 3' 6\" dwarf pinch hitter signed by St. Louis Browns owner Bill Veeck, also a showman who enjoyed staging publicity stunts.\n\nIn 1964, students at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota named an intramural slow-pitch softball league after Rotblatt. Although traditional intramural softball is still played at Carleton, the name \"Rotblatt\" now refers to an annual beer softball game that is played with one inning for every year of the school's over 150-year existence.\n"}
{"id": "1842557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842557", "title": "Montreal Le National", "text": "Montreal Le National\n\nThe Montreal Nationals (Le National de Montreal) were an amateur, later professional, and then amateur again men's senior-level ice hockey team. They are notable in that they were the first team to represent French Canada and were the first ice hockey team composed of francophone players. In 1909/10 during the first season of the National Hockey Association (the forerunner to the National Hockey League), they were offered a chance to replace the brand new Montreal Canadiens being as they were the established French Canadian club, but would refuse and return to their amateur roots playing in various amateur senior leagues.\n\nThe Nationals organization was established in 1894. They iced their first team in 1895, being the first club composed of francophone players. After a few years of independent play against other established clubs, they briefly played in the Intermediate Canadian Amateur Hockey League in 1901. They then entered the Federal Amateur Hockey League in 1904 when Le National and the Montreal Montagnards fielded a joint team for that season. The following season, the agreement with Le Montagnard fell apart after Didier Pitre and Jack Laviolette left to play professional hockey in Pittsburgh, so the Nationals joined the Canadian Amateur Hockey League in 1905. After flirting with these organized leagues (the Nationals more often than not preferred to play challenge games as an independent), they joined the brand new Canadian Hockey Association in 1910 as a professional entity. After the CHA essentially merged with the National Hockey Association, the Nationals were offered a chance to join the NHA replacing the newly established Montreal Canadiens as the French-Canadian entity in that league, but opted not to. The club then returned to their amateur roots by joining the Montreal City Hockey League in 1911 and briefly played in the rival Montreal Hockey League as well as the Interprovincial Amateur Hockey Union, before returning to the MCHL in 1919. They stayed with that league through its various name changes (the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey League in 1923 and the Senior Group Hockey League in 1925). For their final season in 1926/27, the Montreal Nationals merged with the intermediate Montreal St Francois Xavier Hockey Club to form the Montreal/St Francois Nationals. After that one season, the club finally folded.\n\nThe Montreal Nationals organization also iced a junior team alongside the more popular senior team in 1920. The team played in the Junior Amateur Hockey Association. The team was shut down in 1925 but reactivated in 1944. In 1949, the league was renamed the Quebec Junior Hockey League. The team was shut down again in 1952 but reactivated one final time in 1956 in the Metropolitan Montreal Junior Hockey League. In 1958 the club was renamed the Palestre Nationals. In 1969, the MMJHL merged with the Quebec Junior Hockey League to form the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. That year the team moved out to the Montreal borough of Rosemont to become the Rosemont Nationals. In 1971, the club moved out to the Montreal suburb of Laval to become the Laval Nationals. In 1975, after 50 years of operation, the Montreal Nationals organization folded. The team still used the Nationals name for the next few seasons, but after coach Jean Rougeau left the club they were renamed the Laval Voisins. Today the club is the Acadie–Bathurst Titan.\n\nAs well as their hockey team, the Montreal Nationals also had a lacrosse team, which was actually established first, in 1894. In 1897, they won the intermediate league, and in 1898 the senior league. Becoming professional in 1910, they won the Eastern Canada championship, but lost to New Westminster in the Canadian championship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842562", "title": "PBCom Tower", "text": "PBCom Tower\n\nThe Philippine Bank of Communications Tower, more commonly known as PBCom Tower, is an office skyscraper ranked officially as the second tallest building in the Philippines. It was previously the tallest building in the Philippines, a title it held starting year 2000 until the completion of Federal Land Tower in early 2017. It has a total ground to architectural top height of , with 52 storeys including an 8-level radio tower. It is a joint development of Filinvest Asia Corporation (FAC) and the Philippine Bank of Communications (PBCom). The building is the home of PBCom, one of the oldest Philippine banks. The bank occupies the building's first ten floors, with a food court on the seventh floor.\n\nThe building is located at Ayala Avenue corner V.A. Rufino Street in Makati, right inside the Makati Central Business District. The stretch of Ayala Avenue where PBCom Tower is located also has the main branches of Bank of the Philippine Islands, Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation, and Security Bank. The building houses international call centers such as Convergys, HSBC HDPP, and ICT.\n\nPBCom Tower was designed by local architectural firm GF & Partners Architects, in cooperation with international architects Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, LLP; and structural design was provided by local engineering company Aromin & Sy + Associates. Project and construction management services was provided by I.A. Campbell & Associates, a Philippine-based project management company, while construction works was done by Samsung Engineering & Construction's local branch Samsung Construction Company Philippines, Inc. Samsung is known as the builder of the world's tallest buildings, including the Petronas Twin Towers, Taipei 101, and the Burj Khalifa.\n\nBesides these companies, other members of the design team include Edgett Williams Consulting Group (Elevator Design), Golder Associates, Inc. (Seismic Study); Fisher, Marantz, Rentro, Stone (Lighting consultant); Shel Milson & Wilke (Acoustic Analysis); CDC Limited (Curtain Wall design); Control Risks, Inc. (Security System design); N.B.F. Water & Wastewater Services (Sanitary System design); DCCD Engineering Corp. (Electrical Systems design); R.J. Calpo & Partners (Mechanical Systems design); and Radian Technology, Inc. (Fire Protection System design).\n\nIts exterior double-glazed, unitized curtain walls in aluminum frames, together with a monumental lighting effect, create a facade that reflects a fusion of art and function. Its interiors are an elegant interplay of glass, natural stone and metal. A landscaped garden in stepped podium also adds to the natural effect of the building's design. The building also utilizes tinted insulated vision glass in full height for the curtain walls to seal off heat and noise \n\nThe offices spaces feature high ceiling headroom to enhance cosy working atmosphere; perimeter columns to provide flexibility in interior space planning; provision for raised access floor or underslab ducts; and having continuous wide panels in full height glazing allow magnificent views while providing ample natural light into the offices.\n\nThe building also has banking facilities for efficient business transactions; food court with outdoor garden cafe; a business centre to complement corporate operations; and a roofdeck helipad for alternate transport access and emergency evacuation. \nOther amenities include a 100% standby generators, lightning protection and grounding systems, structured cabling system for high-speed transmission of data, video and voice communications, provision for fibre optic telecommunications system, advanced building management system, CCTV monitoring at strategic locations controlled at the central command station on a 24-hour basis, fire alarm and automatic fire sprinkler systems, dual water supply with water treatment facility, underground and overhead water reservoir, 2 individually controlled Air Handling Units per floor with allotted air condition load for after-office use, a communications tower, voice and smoke evacuation systems and a gondola system for building exterior maintenance. \nThe building is equipped with 17 high-speed tower lifts in 3 zones lift-group to ensure minimum waiting time, 4 shuttle lifts for parking and amenity floors and 1 service elevator for all floors. \nThe building's parking facilities have a secure and integrated multi-level design with paging system and a drivers’ lounge. \nThe PBCom Tower has been designated by the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) as one of only two certified Information Technology (IT) buildings in the country. IT companies occupying the PBCom Tower will enjoy special tax incentives and other privileges from the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842566", "title": "Overseas Chinese Daily News", "text": "Overseas Chinese Daily News\n\nOverseas Chinese Daily News (OCDN; ) is a Chinese language newspaper in Malaysia.\n\nIts first newsprint hit the streets of Kota Kinabalu (was known as Jesselton then) on 1 March 1936. It was the first daily in Sabah (was known as North Borneo then). \n\nThe late Tan Sri Yeh Pao Tzu took over the paper in 1949, and served as its publisher cum chief editor. He was a graduate in Journalism from Fu Tan University, China. Yeh died in 1987 and his wife succeeded him as the Chairman. His son, Clement Yeh Chang became the publisher.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842570", "title": "Google Web Accelerator", "text": "Google Web Accelerator\n\nGoogle Web Accelerator was a web accelerator produced by Google. It used client software installed on the user's computer, as well as data caching on Google's servers, to speed up page load times by means of data compression, prefetching of content, and sharing cached data between users. The beta, released on May 4, 2005, works with Mozilla Firefox 1.0+ and Internet Explorer 5.5+ on Windows 2000 SP3+, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Windows Vista and Windows 7 machines.\n\nIt was discovered that Google Web Accelerator had a tendency to prevent YouTube videos from playing, with the message in the YouTube video player, \"We're sorry, this video is no longer available.\" By turning off Google Web Accelerator, the user was able to play YouTube videos again without a problem.\n\nGoogle Web Accelerator sent requests for web pages, except for secure web pages (HTTPS), to Google, which logged these requests. Some web pages embedded personal information in these page requests.\n\nGoogle received and temporarily cached cookie data that your computer sent with webpage requests in order to improve performance.\n\nGoogle crawled every web page it came across leading it to inadvertently deleting web pages.\n\nIn order to speed up delivery of content, Google Web Accelerator sometimes retrieved webpage content that the user did not request, and stored it in the Google Web Accelerator cache. Some law experts and IT authors affirmed that Google would \"combine personal and clickstream data with existing search history data contained in Google's own cookie\"\n\nGoogle Web Accelerator is no longer available for, or supported by, Google . the Google Web Accelerator is not compatible with Firefox 3.0. Google Web Accelerator is still available for download from other websites. The Labs experiment launched in 2005 was discontinued and no longer supported by Google, since January 2009.\n"}
{"id": "1842581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842581", "title": "Santo António da Serra (Santa Cruz)", "text": "Santo António da Serra (Santa Cruz)\n\nSanto António da Serra is a civil parish in the municipality of Santa Cruz on the Portuguese island of Madeira. The parish is adjacent to another parish in the neighbouring municipality of Machico to the north, which is also named Santo António da Serra. The population in 2011 was 936, in an area of 14.75 km².\n\nIt is located west of Machico and east-northeast of the regional capital of Funchal. The parish contains the localities João Ferino, Pereira, Madre d'Água, Curral Velho, Ribeira de João Gonçalves, Achada do Barro, Fajã da Ovelha and Serrado das Amexieiras.\n"}
{"id": "1842582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842582", "title": "Bonavista—Twillingate", "text": "Bonavista—Twillingate\n\nBonavista—Twillingate was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1949 when Newfoundland joined the Canadian Confederation.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Bonavista—Trinity—Conception, Burin—Burgeo, Gander—Twillingate and Grand Falls—White Bay—Labrador ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the Districts of Twillingate, Fogo, Bonavista North, and Bonavista South excluding any part of the territory within a radius of five miles from the railway station at Gander.\n\nIn 1952, it was expanded to include the unorganized territory bounded on the North and West by the District of Grand Falls, on the South by the Districts of Burgeo and LaPoile and Fortune Bay-Hermitage, on the East by the Districts of Trinity North, Bonavista South and Bonavista North.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842586", "title": "Trolley wire", "text": "Trolley wire\n\nTrolley wire may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1842589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842589", "title": "Prometaphase", "text": "Prometaphase\n\nPrometaphase is the phase of mitosis following prophase and preceding metaphase, in eukaryotic somatic cells. In prometaphase, the nuclear membrane breaks apart into numerous \"membrane vesicles\", and the chromosomes inside form protein structures called kinetochores. Kinetochore microtubules emerging from the centrosomes at the poles (ends) of the spindle reach the chromosomes and attach to the kinetochores, throwing the chromosomes into agitated motion. Other spindle microtubules make contact with microtubules coming from the opposite pole. Forces exerted by protein \"motors\" associated with spindle microtubules move the chromosomes toward the centre of the cell.\n\nPrometaphase is not always presented as a distinct part of mitosis. In sources that do not use the term, the events described here are instead assigned to late prophase and early metaphase.\n\nThe microtubules are composed of two types, \"kinetochore microtubules\" and \"non-kinetochore microtubules\". \n\nThe role of prometaphase is completed when all of the kinetochore microtubules have attached to their kinetochores, upon which metaphase begins. An unattached kinetochore, and thus a non-aligned chromosome, even when most of the other chromosomes have lined up, will trigger the spindle checkpoint signal. This prevents premature progression into anaphase by inhibiting the anaphase-promoting complex until all kinetochores are attached and all the chromosomes aligned.\n\nEarly events of metaphase can coincide with the later events of prometaphase, as chromosomes with connected kinetochores will start the events of metaphase individually before other chromosomes with unconnected kinetochores that are still lingering in the events of prometaphase.\n"}
{"id": "1842593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842593", "title": "Burin—Burgeo", "text": "Burin—Burgeo\n\nBurin—Burgeo was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1949 when Newfoundland joined the Canadian Confederation.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was merged into Burin—St. George's riding.\n\nIt initially consisted of the Districts of Placentia West, Burin, Fortune Bay-Hermitage, and Burgeo and LaPoile and all the unorganized territory bounded on the North and West by the District of Grand Falls, on the South by the Districts of Burgeo and LaPoile and Fortune Bay-Hermitage, on the East by the Districts of Trinity North, Bonavista South and Bonavista North.\n\nIn 1952, it was redefined to consist of the Districts of Placentia West excluding the Iona Islands, Burin, Fortune Bay and Hermitage and Burgeo and LaPoile.\n\nIn 1966, it was redefined to consist of the provincial districts of Placentia West, Burin, Burgeo and LaPoile, and those parts of the provincial districts of Fortune Bay, Hermitage, Grand Falls and St. George's not included in the electoral districts of Gander-Twillingate, Grand Falls-White Bay-Labrador and Humber-St. George's-St. Barbe.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842594", "title": "Büchner flask", "text": "Büchner flask\n\nA Büchner flask, also known as a vacuum flask, filter flask, suction flask, side-arm flask, Kitasato flask or Bunsen flask, is a thick-walled Erlenmeyer flask with a short glass tube and hose barb protruding about an inch from its neck. The short tube and hose barb effectively act as an adapter over which the end of a thick-walled flexible hose (tubing) can be fitted to form a connection to the flask. The other end of the hose can be connected to source of vacuum such as an aspirator, vacuum pump, or house vacuum. Preferably this is done through a trap (see below), which is designed to prevent the sucking back of water from the aspirator into the Büchner flask.\n\nThe thick wall of the Büchner flask provides it the strength to withstand the pressure difference while holding a vacuum inside. It is primarily used together with a Büchner funnel fitted through a drilled rubber bung or an elastomer adapter (a Büchner ring) at the neck on top of the flask for the filtration of samples. The Büchner funnel holds the sample isolated from the suction by a layer of filter paper. During filtration, the filtrate enters and is held by the flask while the residue remains on the filter paper in the funnel.\n\nThe Büchner flask can also be used as a vacuum trap in a vacuum line to ensure that no fluids are carried over from the aspirator or vacuum pump (or other vacuum source) to the evacuated apparatus or vice versa.\n\nIt is commonly thought to be named after the Nobel Laureate Eduard Buchner, but it is actually named after the industrial chemist Ernst Büchner. It is also known as a Kitasato flask in honor of Kitasato Shibasaburō.\n"}
{"id": "1842595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842595", "title": "Humber—St. George's", "text": "Humber—St. George's\n\nHumber—St. George's was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1949 when Newfoundland joined the Canadian Confederation.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Burin—Burgeo and Humber—St. George's—St. Barbe ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the Districts of St. George's-Port au Port, Humber, and St. Barbe and all the unorganised territory bounded on the North by the District of Humber, on the East by the District of Grand Falls, on the South by the District of Burgeo and LaPoile, and on the West by the District of St. George's-Port au Port.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842596", "title": "Trinity—Conception", "text": "Trinity—Conception\n\nTrinity—Conception was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1949 when Newfoundland joined the Canadian Confederation.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was merged into Bonavista—Trinity—Conception riding.\n\nIt consisted of the Districts of Trinity North, Trinity South, Carbonear-Bay de Verde, Harbour Grace, and Port de Grave.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842602", "title": "Federal Amateur Hockey League", "text": "Federal Amateur Hockey League\n\nThe Federal Amateur Hockey League (FAHL) was a Canadian men's senior-level ice hockey league that played six seasons, from 1904 to 1909. The league was formed initially to provide a league for teams not accepted by the rival Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL).\n\nThe FAHL's membership changed in each of its six seasons of operation. During the FAHL's inaugural 1904 season, the Montreal Le National became the first francophone ice hockey team to play in a league with anglophone clubs. The 1906-07 season ended early due to an on-ice death, and the 1907 schedule was suspended mid-season.\n\nThe FAHL was a professional league for its last two years and was known as the \"Federal Hockey League\" (FHL). The league dissolved with the formation of the National Hockey Association (NHA).\n\nThe FAHL, through league member Ottawa Hockey Club, held the Stanley Cup for the 1904-05 season.\n\nThe FAHL was formed December 5, 1903, at a meeting held at the Savoy hotel in Montreal.\n\nThe first executive officers were:\n\nThe first franchises were granted to the Wanderers, the Capitals, Cornwall and Le National. Three of the four teams had been rejected for membership by the Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL), while the fourth – the Montreal Wanderers – was composed of disillusioned players from two Montreal-based CAHL teams. Montreal Le National, a francophone athletic organization, which also operated a lacrosse club, had operated an intermediate team in the CAHL. Only the Cornwall team would be a member for the FAHL's entire six seasons of play. \n\nThe league adopted the constitution of the CAHL, except that new teams could join on a majority vote, unlike the unanimity required by the CAHL; and that any players who played in another league would be permanently suspended from play in the FAHL. Games in Montreal would be played on week-nights – at the Montagnard and Victoria rinks – to not conflict with the Saturday games of the CAHL.\n\nThe inaugural 1904 season ended on February 24. Montreal Le National jumped to the CAHL, while the CAHL's Stanley Cup champion Ottawa Hockey Club (HC) jumped to the FAHL, immediately (March 2) defending the Stanley Cup and taking the one-week-old FAHL league championship away from the regular season champion Wanderers.\n\nThe Ottawa HC would repeat as FAHL champion, and retain the Stanley Cup, in the 1904-05 season, before moving (with the Cup) to the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA, later ECHA) for the 1905-06 season.\n\nThe 1906-07 season ended early following the death of Owen McCourt of Cornwall, after an on-ice brawl in a game on March 6, 1907 between Cornwall and the Ottawa Victorias. This led to criminal charges of manslaughter against Charles Masson of the Victorias, who was acquitted when witnesses at the trial stated that other Ottawa hockey players had hit Mr. McCourt in the head prior to Mr. Masson's blow.\n\nSources:\n\nA few of the players involved in the March 6, 1907 game:\nThe 1908 season saw the Federal League return with only three teams, all professional. Brockville, unable to field a competitive team, hired the Renfrew Creamery Kings club to play as the Brockville entry. This was unacceptable to the Ottawa Victorias, which refused to play the Renfrew players, causing the league to suspend operations. \n\nThe final season, 1909, saw the Renfrew Creamery Kings become a full member of the league. Ottawa's new entry, officially called the Senators, was organized by players who resigned from the ECHA's (and former FAHL) Ottawa \"Senators/Silver Seven\" HC.\n\nThe league dissolved in 1909, with only Renfrew continuing professional play when the team joined the National Hockey Association.\n\n† Stanley Cup winner\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842604", "title": "Annapolis—Kings", "text": "Annapolis—Kings\n\nAnnapolis—Kings was a federal electoral district in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1953.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from Digby—Annapolis—Kings. It consisted of the counties of Annapolis and Kings. It was abolished in 1952 when it was redistributed into Digby—Annapolis—Kings riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842607", "title": "The Dutchman", "text": "The Dutchman\n\n\"The Dutchman\" is a song written by Michael Peter Smith in 1968 and popularized by Steve Goodman. At the time Smith wrote the song, he had never visited the Netherlands.\n\nThe song is about an elderly couple living in Amsterdam, Margaret and the title character. The unnamed Dutchman is senile, and Margaret cares for him with a sadness over what has happened to him over the years. It is a story of unconditional love. One of the most notable and successful versions was recorded by Irish comedian and entertainer Brendan Grace.\n\nWhile Goodman's cover version of \"The Dutchman\" is one of the best known, along with a cover by Irish artists Liam Clancy and Tommy Makem, the song has been covered by many other artists as well, including Bernard Wrigley, John Gorka, Suzy Bogguss, Norm Hacking, Anne Hills, John McDermott, The New Kingston Trio, Gamble Rogers, Tom Russell, Jerry Jeff Walker, Robert James Waller, Cashman & West, Josh White Jr. Wood's Tea Company, Keith Harkin, Tom Lanigan, Celtic Thunder, David Soul, Danny Doyle and Brendan Grace.\n"}
{"id": "1842608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842608", "title": "Digby—Yarmouth", "text": "Digby—Yarmouth\n\nDigby—Yarmouth was a federal electoral district in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1953.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Digby—Annapolis—Kings and Shelburne—Yarmouth—Clare ridings. It consisted of the counties of Digby and Yarmouth. It was abolished in 1952 when it was redistributed into Digby—Annapolis—Kings and Shelburne—Yarmouth—Clare ridings.\n\nIts only Member of Parliament was Thomas Andrew Murray Kirk of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Member of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842609", "title": "Queens—Shelburne", "text": "Queens—Shelburne\n\nQueens—Shelburne was a federal electoral district in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1953.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from Queens—Lunenburg and Shelburne—Yarmouth—Clare ridings. It consisted of the counties of Queens and Shelburne. It was abolished in 1952 when it was redistributed back into those districts.\n\nIts only Member of Parliament was Donald Smith of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842611", "title": "Ellen Goldring", "text": "Ellen Goldring\n\nEllen Goldring Ph.D. is a professor of Educational Policy and Leadership at Vanderbilt University.\n\nEllen Goldring received a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1985. Her research interests reside in two main areas. One strand centers on understanding and shaping school reform efforts that connect families, communities, and schools. She is co-author of \"Magnet Schools in Urban Districts: What's Our Choice\" (Teacher College Press), with Claire Smrekar, that focuses on questions of equity and community in urban school districts with extensive magnet school plans, and \"Principals of Dynamic Schools\" (Corwin Press) with Sharon Rallis.\n\nMuch of her other work focuses on the changing role of school leaders as the organizational contexts for schools become more complex and varied. Her research examines how principals play a pivotal and changing role as schools become re-embedded in their larger community structures. She studies the organizational features of schools and leadership that affect parent participation and teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in the areas of understanding organizations and quantitative research methods. She is currently involved in a number of projects that are studying expertise in school leadership, new models for professional development for school leaders, and linking leading and learning.\n\n\nEllen Goldring is currently involved on the following projects;\n\n"}
{"id": "1842616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842616", "title": "Polypterus", "text": "Polypterus\n\nPolypterus is a genus of freshwater fish in the bichir family (Polypteridae) of order Polypteriformes. The type species is the Nile bichir (\"P. bichir\"). Fishes in this genus live in various areas in Africa. \"Polypterus\" is the only known vertebrate to have lungs, but no trachea.\n\nThe etymology of the genus name derives from a combination of the Greek prefix πολυ-, \"poly-\" (many) and the root word πτερον, \"pteron\" (wing or fin) – \"many fins\".\n\nIn shallow water, \"Polypterus\" inhales primarily through its spiracle (blowhole). Exhalation is powered by muscles in the torso. During exhalation, the bony scales in the upper chest become indented. When the muscles are relaxed, the bony scales spring back into position, generating negative pressure within the torso, resulting in a rapid intake of air through the spiracle. The air is nearly sufficient to fill the lungs. This is followed by one cycle of buccal (mouth) pumping, which \"tops off\" the lungs, with the surplus air from the buccal pumping process discharged through the pharynx. According to one hypothesis, Devonian tetrapods may have inhaled in this way.\n\n\"Polypterus\" was discovered, described, and named in 1802 by Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire. It is a genus of 10 green to yellow-brown species. Naturalists were unsure whether to regard it as a fish or an amphibian. If it were a fish, what type was it: bony, cartilaginous, or lungfish?\n\nSome regarded \"Polypterus\" as a living fossil, part of the missing link between fishes and amphibians, helping to show how fish fins had evolved to become paired limbs.\n\nIn 1861, Thomas Huxley created the order Crossopterygii to house animals, fossil and living, that possessed lungs and fleshy pectoral fins with lobes. He placed \"Polypterus\" and \"Calamoichthys\" within this order, allocating them to a new tribe, Polypterini, which he created especially for them. The weight of Huxley's authority allowed this allocation to last in textbooks and lectures long after it had been disproved.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s, Francis Balfour and his students had shown that embryology could help to answer questions about the evolution of species. No one had studied the embryology of \"Polypterus\". Someone who could do this might prove the “missing link” theory and be greatly honoured, but it could be a dangerous quest. The only breeding \"Polypterus\" specimens were in swampy parts of African rivers. Africa was a turbulent place and swamps were rich breeding grounds for mosquitoes carrying malaria.\n\nTwo men, Nathan Harrington and John Samuel Budgett, attempted to answer this question by making repeated expeditions to Africa. Harrington failed on his first attempt in 1898 and died early on his second in 1899 before he could reach his destination. Budgett failed in 1898/9, 1900, and 1902. He finally succeeded in 1903, but died of blackwater fever shortly after his return to England. He left excellent samples and drawings, but his only writing was a diary. Consequently, his results on \"Polypterus\" were written up and published by his friend John Graham Kerr.\n\nDrawing on this work, in 1907, E. S. Goodrich reported to the British Association the then current state of evidence 'against' \"Polypterus\" being a crossopterygian, placing it within the palaeoniscids, the most primitive actinopterygians.\n\nMuch later, in 1946, Romer, confirmed this view, but he also wrote, \"The weight of Huxley's [1861] opinion is a heavy one, and even today many a text continues to cite \"Polypterus\" as a crossopterygian and it is so described in many a classroom, although students of fish evolution have realized the falsity of this position for many years. ... \"Polypterus\" ... is not a crossopterygian, but an actinopterygian, and hence can tell us nothing about crossopterygian anatomy and embryology.\"\n\nHall (2001), relying on Patterson (1982) and Noack \"et al.\" (1996), writes, \"Phylogenetic analyses using both morphological and molecular data affirm \"Polypterus\" as a living stem actinopterygian.\" Research is ongoing. Most of the conclusions drawn by Kerr from Budgett's specimens have been confirmed, but many questions remain.\n\n\"Polypterus\" has rarely been bred in captivity. The first success was that of \"Polypterus senegalus\" by Arnoult in 1964, a species spawned repeatedly since (see Hartl, 1981; Bartsch and Gemballa, 1992; Bartsch et al., 1997 and Schugardt, 1997).\n\nShortly after Arnoult's success, a second species, \"Polypterus ornatipinnis\", was spawned by Armbrust for the first time (1966 and 1973) and bred subsequently by Azuma in 1986; Wolf, 1992; Bartsch and Britz, 1996. The third species successfully spawned in captivity was \"Polypterus endlicheri\" by Azuma in 1995.\n\nZoo Basel have been successful in breeding \"Polypterus\" in captivity. In December 2005, several eggs were laid, and at the beginning of 2006, six young hatched. Within two months, they reached 10 cm (about 4 in).\n\nIn 2014 researchers at McGill University (published in the journal Nature) turned to \"Polypterus\" to help show what might have happened when fish first attempted to walk out of the water. The team of researchers raised juvenile \"Polypterus\" on land for nearly a year, with the aim of revealing how these 'terrestrialized' fish looked and moved differently.\n\n\nGoodrich, E. S. (1908). \"On the systematic position of Polypterus. Report of the 77th Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science\" (1907): 545-546. Quoted by Hall\n\nHall, B. K. (2001) John Samuel Budgett (1872-1904): \"In Pursuit of Polypterus\", BioScience, Vol. 51, No. 5 (May, 2001), pp. 399–407\n\nKerr, J.G. (1907), \"The development of Polypterus senegalus Cuv.\", Pages 195-290 in Kerr, J.G., (ed. 1907), \"The Work of John Samuel Budgett, Balfour Student of the University of Cambridge: Being a Collection of His Zoological Papers, together with a Biographical Sketch by A . E. Shipley, F.R.S., and Contributions by Richard Assheton, Edward J.Bles, Edward T. Browne, J. Herbert Budgett and J. Graham Kerr.\" Cambridge (UK): Cambridge University Press.\n\nNoack K, Zardoya R, Meyer A. 1996. \"The complete mitochondrial DNA sequence of the bichir (Polypterusor natipinnis), a basal ray-finned fish: Ancient establishment of the consensus vertebrate gene order\". Genetics 144:1165-1180, cited by Hall\n\nPatterson C. (1982). \"Morphology and interrelationships of primitive actinopterygian fishes\". American Zoologist 22: 241-260, cited by Hall.\n\nRomer, A S. (1946). \"The early evolution of fishes\", Quarterly Review of Biology 21: 33-69, cited by Hall\n"}
{"id": "1842623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842623", "title": "Cassie Gaines", "text": "Cassie Gaines\n\nCassie LaRue Gaines (January 9, 1948 – October 20, 1977) was an American singer, best known for her work with Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd.\n\nGaines was invited by JoJo Billingsley and Ronnie Van Zant to join Lynyrd Skynyrd as a backup singer. She had never heard of the band at the time, so Billingsley lent her a copy of the band's first two albums: \"(Pronounced 'Lĕh-'nérd 'Skin-'nérd)\" and \"Second Helping\". In late 1975, Gaines, Billingsley, and Leslie Hawkins formed The Honkettes, a female gospel vocal trio for Skynyrd.\n\nWhen Lynyrd Skynyrd was in need of a guitar player to replace recently departed Ed King, Cassie recommended her younger brother, Steve, who joined the band soon after.\n\nOn October 20, 1977, a Convair CV-240 carrying the band between shows from Greenville, South Carolina, to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, crashed outside of Gillsburg, Mississippi. The crash killed Ronnie Van Zant, Steve and Cassie Gaines, assistant road manager Dean Kilpatrick, as well as pilot Walter McCreary and co-pilot William Gray. Gaines had initially refused to board the flight and was convinced by other members against her better judgment. Her hesitation was due to a small fire on one of the engines the previous day. She intended to travel in the tour trucks but boarded the flight due to Van Zant's persuasion. \n\nGaines survived the initial accident but bled to death while rescuers attempted to reach the accident site and remove victims for medical treatment. According to controversial claims by survivor Billy Powell, Gaines bled to death after the accident in Powell's arms from deep lacerations.\n\nCassie and Steve Gaines were buried in Orange Park, Florida.\n\nOn February 15, 1979, the mother of Steve and Cassie, also named Cassie LaRue Gaines, was killed in an automobile accident near the cemetery where Steve and Cassie are buried. She was buried near her children.\n"}
{"id": "1842624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842624", "title": "Châteauguay—Huntingdon—Laprairie", "text": "Châteauguay—Huntingdon—Laprairie\n\nChâteauguay—Huntingdon—Laprairie was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Beauharnois—Laprairie and Châteauguay—Huntingdon ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Beauharnois, Chambly, Laprairie and Saint-Jean ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842625", "title": "Compton—Frontenac", "text": "Compton—Frontenac\n\nCompton—Frontenac was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Compton, Mégantic—Frontenac and Stanstead ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it eas redistributed into Compton and Beauce ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842626", "title": "Îles-de-la-Madeleine (electoral district)", "text": "Îles-de-la-Madeleine (electoral district)\n\nÎles-de-la-Madeleine was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from Gaspé riding. It consisted of the county of Iles-de-la-Madeleine. The electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was merged into Bonaventure riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842627", "title": "Lac-Saint-Jean", "text": "Lac-Saint-Jean\n\nLac-Saint-Jean is a federal electoral district in the Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean region of northeast Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1925 to 2004, and has been represented since 2015.\n\nEthnic groups: 93.1% White, 6.4% Indigenous, 0.5% Other (2011)\nLanguages: 99.0% French (2016)\nReligions: 95.6% Christian, 0.2% Other, 4.2% None (2011)\nMedian income: $30,947 (2015)\n\nThis riding was created in 1924 form parts of Chicoutimi—Saguenay riding and was originally named in English Lake St. John. It originally consisted of the counties of Lake St. John East and Lake St. John West. It was renamed Lake St-John—Roberval in 1935.\n\nThe 1947 redistribution created a new riding with the name Lac-Saint-Jean (in English and French), created from parts of the Lake St-John—Roberval riding. It was initially defined to consist of the county of Lake St. John East and the towns of Riverbend, Ile Maligne and St. Joseph-d'Alma; and parts of the county of Lake St. John West.\n\nIn 1966, it was redefined to consist of the City of Alma, the Town of Desbiens, the County of Lac-Saint-Jean East, and parts of the Counties of Lac-Saint-Jean West and Chicoutimi.\n\nIn 1976, it was redefined to consist of the Cities of Alma and Chicoutimi North, and parts of the Counties of Chicoutimi and Lac-Saint-Jean East.\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of the towns of Alma, Desbiens and Métabetchouan; the County of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est; and parts of the Counties of Chicoutimi, Charlevoix-Ouest, Lac-Saint-Jean-Ouest and Montmorency.\n\nIn 1996, it was redefined to consist of the towns of Alma, Desbiens and Métabetchouan; the County Regional Municipality of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est; and parts of in the County Regional Municipality of Le Fjord-du-Saguenay.\n\nIts name was changed in 2000 to \"Lac-Saint-Jean—Saguenay\".\n\nIn 2003, it was abolished when it was redistributed into Chicoutimi—Le Fjord, Jonquière—Alma and Roberval ridings.\n\nThe 2012 electoral redistribution saw this riding re-created from parts of Roberval—Lac-Saint-Jean and Jonquière—Alma.\n\nA by-election was held on October 23, 2017 due to the resignation of Denis Lebel on August 9, 2017. The riding was subsequently won by Liberal Richard Hébert.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842629", "title": "Lafontaine (electoral district)", "text": "Lafontaine (electoral district)\n\nLafontaine (also known as Lafontaine—Rosemont) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Hochelaga, St. James and St. mary ridings. It consisted of a part of the city of Montreal.\n\nThe riding's name was changes in 1975 to \"Lafontaine—Rosemont\", and the riding was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Hochelaga, Laurier, Maisonneuve and Rosemont ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842630", "title": "The Savage Nation (book)", "text": "The Savage Nation (book)\n\nThe Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language, and Culture is Michael Savage's 18th book. It was published in 2003 and spent 18 weeks on the NY Times best seller list, debuting at #4. It provides conservative social commentary and criticism of liberals, Islam and Democrats.\n"}
{"id": "1842631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842631", "title": "Lapointe (electoral district)", "text": "Lapointe (electoral district)\n\nLapointe was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1979. \nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Chicoutimi riding. It consisted of the city of Arvida and the towns of Kénogami and Jonquière and the western part of the county of Chicoutimi.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Jonquière and Lac-Saint-Jean ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842633", "title": "Notre-Dame-de-Grâce (electoral district)", "text": "Notre-Dame-de-Grâce (electoral district)\n\nNotre-Dame-de-Grâce (also known as Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine East) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947. In 1980 its name was changed to \"Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine East\".\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Lachine—Lac-Saint-Louis and a new Notre-Dame-de-Grâce riding.\n\nThe new Notre-Dame-de-Grâce riding was created from parts of Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine East, Mount Royal and Saint-Henri—Westmount ridings.\n\nThis riding consisted of:\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842636", "title": "Pontiac—Témiscamingue", "text": "Pontiac—Témiscamingue\n\nPontiac—Témiscamingue was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from Pontiac riding.\n\nIt was defined to consist of:\n\nIn 1966, it was split into the new electoral districts of Pontiac and Témiscamingue.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nN.B. Mr. Martineau elected by the casting vote of the Returning Officer\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842640", "title": "Saguenay (electoral district)", "text": "Saguenay (electoral district)\n\nSaguenay was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Charlevoix—Saguenay riding. It consisted of:\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Abitibi, Charlevoix and Manicouagan ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842643", "title": "Saint-Jean—Iberville—Napierville", "text": "Saint-Jean—Iberville—Napierville\n\nSaint-Jean—Iberville—Napierville was a federal electoral district in the province of Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Beauharnois—Laprairie and St. Johns—Iberville—Napierville ridings. It consisted of: \n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Missisquoi and Saint-Jean ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842645", "title": "Saint-Maurice—Laflèche", "text": "Saint-Maurice—Laflèche\n\nSaint-Maurice—Laflèche (previously known as St-Maurice—Laflèche) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1935 to 1968.\n\nIt was created as \"St-Maurice—Laflèche\" riding in 1933 from parts of Champlain and Three Rivers and St. Maurice ridings. In 1947, the riding's English name was changed to \"Saint-Maurice—Laflèche\". The electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Berthier, Champlain and Saint-Maurice ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842649", "title": "Neotibicen", "text": "Neotibicen\n\nCicadas of the genus Neotibicen are large-bodied insects of the family Cicadidae that appear in summer or early fall in eastern North America. Common names include cicada, harvestfly, jar fly, and the misnomer locust. Until recently, these species were all in the genus \"Tibicen\", which was redefined in the twenty-first century to include only a few European species, while species from the Western United States and Mexico are now placed in a separate genus, \"Hadoa\". In addition, several former \"Neotibicen\" species have been moved to the genus \"Megatibicen\".\n\n\"Neotibicen\" species are the most commonly encountered cicadas in the eastern United States. Unlike periodical cicadas, whose appearances aboveground occur at 13- or 17-year intervals, \"Neotibicen\" species can be seen every year, hence their nickname \"annual cicadas\". Despite their annual appearances, \"Neotibicen\" probably take multiple years to develop underground, because all cicada species for which life cycle lengths have been measured do so, except when growing as agricultural pests Their annual reappearance is presumably due to overlapping generations.\n\n\"Neotibicen\" cicadas are long, with characteristic green, brown, and black markings on the top of the thorax, and tented, membranous wings extending past the abdomen. The fore wings are about twice the length of the hindwings. Adults feed using their beak to tap into the xylem of plants; nymphs feed from the xylem of roots.\n\nLike other members of the subfamily Cicadinae, \"Neotibicen\" species have loud, complex songs, even (in many cases) with distinct song phrases.\n\nMales produce loud calls in the afternoon or evening (depending on the species) to attract females. These sounds, distinctive for each species, are produced by specialized tymbal organs on the abdomen as in most cicadas. These calls range from a loud buzz to a long rattling sound, sometimes with a pulsating quality.\n\nThese species and subspecies belong to the genus \"Neotibicen\". Several species formerly in this genus were recently moved to \"Megatibicen\", and one (\"Neotibicen longioperculus\") was moved to the genus \"Hadoa\".\n\nMany animals feed on cicadas, which usually occurs during the final days when they become easy prey near the ground. One of the more notable predators is the cicada killer. This is a large wasp that catches the dog-day cicada. After catching and stinging the insect to paralyze it, the cicada killer carries it back to its hole and drags it underground to a chamber where it lays its eggs in the paralyzed cicada. When the eggs hatch, the wasp larvae feed on the paralyzed, but still living, cicada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842652", "title": "Architecture Without Architects", "text": "Architecture Without Architects\n\nArchitecture Without Architects: A Short Introduction to Non-Pedigreed Architecture is a book based on the NYC MoMA exhibition of the same name by Bernard Rudofsky originally published in 1964. It provides a demonstration of the artistic, functional, and cultural richness of vernacular architecture.\n\nRudofsky had long been interested in vernacular architecture. In 1931 he completed his dissertation on vernacular concrete architecture on the Greek Cyclades islands. He was convinced that modernism, but especially modern architecture got out of touch with the needs, and sensuality of mankind.\n\nAfter having curated the highly controversial NYC MoMA-show \"Are Clothes Modern?\", an exhibition where Rudofsky argued that clothing lacked utility, and - due to its highly artificial nature - even had harming effects on the human body, Rudofsky developed the exhibition Architecture Without Architects, that was from 11 Nov. 1964-7 Feb. 1965 on show at the NYC MoMA. In 200 enlarged black-and-white-photographs, he showed various kinds of architectures, landscapes, and people living with or within architectures. Shown without texts or explanations, the visitors were just confronted with imagery that showed indigenous building traditions, which were very much at odds with the ideas of architectural modernism which had been promoted through NYC MoMA's Philip Johnson in his famous 1932 exhibition \"Modern Architecture. International Exhibition\". Although the show was heavily critisied, it became one of the most successful exhibitions in the history of the NYC MoMA.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842653", "title": "Villeneuve (electoral district)", "text": "Villeneuve (electoral district)\n\nVilleneuve was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Pontiac riding. It consisted initially of:\n\nIn 1952, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nIn 1966, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Abitibi and Témiscamingue ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842654", "title": "Broken Dolls", "text": "Broken Dolls\n\nBroken Dolls are a British band from Coventry.\n\nThey signed a five-album deal with Southern Fried Records in 2004, and toured extensively playing such events and shows as Get Loaded in the Park, Glastonbury, Hyde Park (O2 festival), Radio One Big weekend/ Live Lounge, NME awards, Radio 1, Radio 2 and 6Music.\n\nThe band was also featured on the E! True Hollywood Story of Kate Moss, and featured their song, \"Here We Go,\" in reference of Moss' drug problem.\n\nTheir first album was produced by Jim Abbiss (Arctic Monkeys, Kasabian, Editors) Jagz Kooner (Primal Scream, Infadels) and Dave Bascombe (Goldfrapp)\n\n\"Here We Go,\" was also featured on the \"Test Drive Unlimited\" soundtrack.\n\nTheir album \"Broken Dolls\" was released on 23 July 2007, to rapturous reviews and excellent support from top national radio DJs.\n\nThey have starred in a video for their \"Here We Go\" song, which was published on YouTube in November 2007.\n"}
{"id": "1842656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842656", "title": "Brant—Wentworth", "text": "Brant—Wentworth\n\nBrant—Wentworth was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1953. This riding was created in 1947 from parts of Brant and Wentworth ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the town of Paris and the townships of South Dumfries, Onondaga, and Tuscarora and the part of the township of Brantford lying north and east of the left bank of Grand River in the county of Brant; and the townships of Beverly, Ancaster, Glanford and Binbrook in the county of Wentworth.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1952 when it was redistributed between Brant—Haldimand and Wentworth ridings.\n\nThis riding elected only one Member of Parliament: Mark Charlton, of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842658", "title": "Timmins (electoral district)", "text": "Timmins (electoral district)\n\nTimmins was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1979. It was located around the city of Timmins in the northeastern part of the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1947 from parts of Cochrane and Timiskaming ridings.\n\nIt consisted of portions of the territorial districts of Timiskaming and Cochrane.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Timiskaming and Timmins—Chapleau ridings.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842661", "title": "Sanchita karma", "text": "Sanchita karma\n\nIn Hinduism, sanchita karma (heaped together) is one of the three kinds of karma. It is the sum of one's past karmas – all actions, good and bad, from one's past lives follow through to the next life. Out of this, we each lifetime, we choose prarabdha karma, a collection of past karmas, which are ready to be experienced through the present incarnation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842662", "title": "Norquay (electoral district)", "text": "Norquay (electoral district)\n\nNorquay was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1953.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Portage la Prairie, Selkirk and Springfield ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1952 when it was redistributed into Dauphin, Portage—Neepawa and Selkirk ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842665", "title": "Portage—Neepawa", "text": "Portage—Neepawa\n\nPortage—Neepawa was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Macdonald, Neepawa and Portage la Prairie ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Dauphin, Lisgar, Marquette, Portage and Winnipeg South Centre ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842668", "title": "A Sides Win: Singles 1992–2005", "text": "A Sides Win: Singles 1992–2005\n\nA Sides Win: Singles 1992–2005 is a compilation album by Canadian power pop quartet Sloan. It was released on May 3, 2005, and debuted at #15 on the Canadian Albums Chart.\n\nThe album is a compilation of 14 previously released singles, plus two new songs, \"All Used Up\" and \"Try to Make It\". A special version of the album also contains a second disc, a DVD containing the music videos of each of the songs, plus interviews and other material.\n\nThe album's title is a play on \"A Side Wins\", a song on Sloan's 1996 release \"One Chord to Another\".\n\n\nB-sides\n"}
{"id": "1842671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842671", "title": "Bottling company", "text": "Bottling company\n\nA bottling company is a commercial enterprise whose output is the bottling of beverages for distribution.\n\nMany bottling companies are franchisees of corporations such as Coca-Cola and PepsiCo who distribute the beverage in a specific geographic region. Some bottling companies may also bottle other local beverages such as regional beers or wines.\n\nA bottler is a company which mixes drink ingredients and fills up cans and bottles with the drink. The bottler then distributes the final product to the wholesale sellers in a geographic area. Large companies like The Coca-Cola Company sell their product to bottlers like the Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, who then bottle and distribute it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842672", "title": "Municipality of the District of East Hants", "text": "Municipality of the District of East Hants\n\nEast Hants, officially named the Municipality of the District of East Hants, is a district municipality in Hants County, Nova Scotia, Canada. Statistics Canada classifies the district municipality as a municipal district.\n\nWith its administrative seat in Elmsdale, the district municipality occupies the eastern half of Hants County from the Minas Basin to the boundary with Halifax County, sharing this boundary with the Municipality of the District of West Hants. It was made in 1861 from the former townships of Uniacke, Rawdon, Douglas, Walton, Shubenacadie and Maitland. Its most settled area is in the Shubenacadie Valley.\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Municipality of the District of East Hants recorded a population of 22,453 living in 9,057 of its 9,930 total private dwellings, a change of from its 2011 population of 22,111. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nThe Public Works division operates two water utility distribution sites and three sewage collection and treatment systems for communities in the serviced areas adjacent to Highway 102 and along the Shubenacadie River. The division also operates an engineered spring which draws additional water from Grand Lake to the Shubenacadie River during low water level events.\nDrinking water is distributed across 71.0 kilometers of main distribution lines. Wastewater is distributed through 80.5 kilometers of wastewater collection mains. Please visit the Public Works section for more detailed information.\nThe Environmental Services division works closely with Public Works. This division monitors and reviews data to ensure compliance of operating approvals. Environmental Services also runs a watershed protection program that focuses on building awareness of watershed issues that impact watersheds of interest to the municipality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842674", "title": "Moose Mountain (electoral district)", "text": "Moose Mountain (electoral district)\n\nMoose Mountain was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1948 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Assiniboia, Qu’Appelle and Weyburn ridings\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was merged into Qu'Appelle—Moose Mountain riding.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842677", "title": "Burnaby—Richmond", "text": "Burnaby—Richmond\n\nBurnaby—Richmond (also known as Burnaby—Richmond—Delta) was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created as \"Burnaby—Richmond\" in 1947 from parts of New Westminster and Vancouver North ridings.\n\nThe name of the electoral district was changed in 1970 to \"Burnaby—Richmond—Delta\".\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Burnaby and Richmond—South Delta ridings.\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842680", "title": "Coast—Capilano", "text": "Coast—Capilano\n\nCoast—Capilano was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1947 from parts of Vancouver North riding.\n\nThe riding consisted of Vancouver's North Shore suburbs, the then-municipality of West Vancouver (now a city) and the city and the western part of the district municipality of North Vancouver plus the mainland Sunshine Coast areas of the former Comox—Atlin riding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842684", "title": "Guang Ming Daily (Malaysia)", "text": "Guang Ming Daily (Malaysia)\n\nGuang Ming Daily () is a Chinese-language newspaper published in Malaysia. Formerly known as Sin Pin Jit Poh or Sin Pin Daily (), it was founded by Aw Boon Haw who also started the \"Sin Chew Daily\". \"Sin Pin Daily\" was headquartered in Penang. It stopped publishing in 1986 after major changes in management.\n\nThe former staff of the \"Sin Pin Daily\" started the \"Guang Ming Daily\" in December 1987 with the help from Lim Keng Yaik.\n\nIn 1992, the Rimbunan Hijau Group bought over \"Guang Ming Daily\" and thus making it the sister company again with \"Sin Chew Daily\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1842685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842685", "title": "Gaussian blur", "text": "Gaussian blur\n\nIn image processing, a Gaussian blur (also known as Gaussian smoothing) is the result of blurring an image by a Gaussian function (named after mathematician and scientist Carl Friedrich Gauss). It is a widely used effect in graphics software, typically to reduce image noise and reduce detail. The visual effect of this blurring technique is a smooth blur resembling that of viewing the image through a translucent screen, distinctly different from the bokeh effect produced by an out-of-focus lens or the shadow of an object under usual illumination. Gaussian smoothing is also used as a pre-processing stage in computer vision algorithms in order to enhance image structures at different scales—see scale space representation and scale space implementation.\n\nMathematically, applying a Gaussian blur to an image is the same as convolving the image with a Gaussian function. This is also known as a two-dimensional Weierstrass transform. By contrast, convolving by a circle (i.e., a circular box blur) would more accurately reproduce the bokeh effect. Since the Fourier transform of a Gaussian is another Gaussian, applying a Gaussian blur has the effect of reducing the image's high-frequency components; a Gaussian blur is thus a low pass filter.\n\nThe Gaussian blur is a type of image-blurring filters that uses a Gaussian function (which also expresses the normal distribution in statistics) for calculating the transformation to apply to each pixel in the image. The formula of a Gaussian function in one dimension is\n\nIn two dimensions, it is the product of two such Gaussian functions, one in each dimension:\n\nwhere \"x\" is the distance from the origin in the horizontal axis, \"y\" is the distance from the origin in the vertical axis, and \"σ\" is the standard deviation of the Gaussian distribution. When applied in two dimensions, this formula produces a surface whose contours are concentric circles with a Gaussian distribution from the center point. Values from this distribution are used to build a convolution matrix which is applied to the original image. This convolution process is illustrated visually in the figure on the right. Each pixel's new value is set to a weighted average of that pixel's neighborhood. The original pixel's value receives the heaviest weight (having the highest Gaussian value) and neighboring pixels receive smaller weights as their distance to the original pixel increases. This results in a blur that preserves boundaries and edges better than other, more uniform blurring filters; see also scale space implementation.\n\nIn theory, the Gaussian function at every point on the image will be non-zero, meaning that the entire image would need to be included in the calculations for each pixel. In practice, when computing a discrete approximation of the Gaussian function, pixels at a distance of more than 3\"σ\" have a small enough influence to be considered effectively zero. Thus contributions from pixels outside that range can be ignored. Typically, an image processing program need only calculate a matrix with dimensions formula_3 × formula_3 (where formula_5 is the ceiling function) to ensure a result sufficiently close to that obtained by the entire Gaussian distribution.\n\nIn addition to being circularly symmetric, the Gaussian blur can be applied to a two-dimensional image as two independent one-dimensional calculations, and so is termed separable filter. That is, the effect of applying the two-dimensional matrix can also be achieved by applying a series of single-dimensional Gaussian matrices in the horizontal direction, then repeating the process in the vertical direction. In computational terms, this is a useful property, since the calculation can be performed in formula_6 time (where \"h\" is height and \"w\" is width; see Big O notation), as opposed to formula_7 for a non-separable kernel.\n\nApplying successive Gaussian blurs to an image has the same effect as applying a single, larger Gaussian blur, whose radius is the square root of the sum of the squares of the blur radii that were actually applied. For example, applying successive Gaussian blurs with radii of 6 and 8 gives the same results as applying a single Gaussian blur of radius 10, since formula_8. Because of this relationship, processing time cannot be saved by simulating a Gaussian blur with successive, smaller blurs — the time required will be at least as great as performing the single large blur.\nGaussian blurring is commonly used when reducing the size of an image. When downsampling an image, it is common to apply a low-pass filter to the image prior to resampling. This is to ensure that spurious high-frequency information does not appear in the downsampled image (aliasing). Gaussian blurs have nice properties, such as having no sharp edges, and thus do not introduce ringing into the filtered image.\n\nGaussian blur is a low-pass filter, attenuating high frequency signals.\n\nIts amplitude Bode plot (the log scale in the frequency domain) is a parabola.\n\nHow much does a Gaussian filter with standard deviation formula_9 smooth the picture? In other words, how much does it reduce the standard deviation of pixel values in the picture? Assume the grayscale pixel values have a standard deviation formula_10, then after applying the filter the reduced standard deviation formula_11 can be approximated as\n\nThis sample matrix is produced by sampling the Gaussian filter kernel (with σ = 0.84089642) at the midpoints of each pixel and then normalizing. The center element (at [4, 4]) has the largest value, decreasing symmetrically as distance from the center increases.\nformula_13\nThe element 0.22508352 (the central one) is 1177 times larger than 0.00019117 which is just outside 3σ.\n\nA Gaussian blur effect is typically generated by convolving an image with an FIR kernel of Gaussian values. In practice, it is best to take advantage of the Gaussian blur’s separable property by dividing the process into two passes. In the first pass, a one-dimensional kernel is used to blur the image in only the horizontal or vertical direction. In the second pass, the same one-dimensional kernel is used to blur in the remaining direction. The resulting effect is the same as convolving with a two-dimensional kernel in a single pass, but requires fewer calculations.\n\nDiscretization is typically achieved by sampling the Gaussian filter kernel at discrete points, normally at positions corresponding to the midpoints of each pixel. This reduces the computational cost but, for very small filter kernels, point sampling the Gaussian function with very few samples leads to a large error. In these cases, accuracy is maintained (at a slight computational cost) by integration of the Gaussian function over each pixel's area.\n\nWhen converting the Gaussian’s continuous values into the discrete values needed for a kernel, the sum of the values will be different from 1. This will cause a darkening or brightening of the image. To remedy this, the values can be normalized by dividing each term in the kernel by the sum of all terms in the kernel.\n\nThe efficiency of FIR breaks down for high sigmas. Alternatives to the FIR filter exist. These include the very fast three box blurs, the fast and accurate IIR Deriche edge detector, a \"stack blur\" based on the box blur, and more.\n\nGaussian smoothing is commonly used with edge detection. Most edge-detection algorithms are sensitive to noise; the 2-D Laplacian filter, built from a discretization of the Laplace operator, is highly sensitive to noisy environments. Using a Gaussian Blur filter before edge detection aims to reduce the level of noise in the image, which improves the result of the following edge-detection algorithm. This approach is commonly referred to as Laplacian of Gaussian, or LoG filtering.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842687", "title": "Yukon—Mackenzie River", "text": "Yukon—Mackenzie River\n\nYukon—Mackenzie River was a federal electoral district in Canada that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1949 to 1953. It covered the Yukon Territory, and the southwestern part of the Northwest Territories. This riding was created in 1947, and was only used in the 1949 federal election. The Northwest Territories had not been represented in the House of Commons since 1905 following the creation of Alberta and Saskatchewan two years earlier. Yukon had been represented continuously since a byelection in January 1903.\n\nIt was abolished in 1952 when it was redistributed into Mackenzie River and Yukon ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the Yukon Territory and the part of the District of Mackenzie in the Northwest Territories lying west of the 109th meridian west longitude. The remainder of the District of Mackenzie, as well as the Districts of Keewatin, Franklin and Ungava, had no representation until 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842690", "title": "Tony Womack", "text": "Tony Womack\n\nAnthony Darrell Womack (born September 25, 1969) is a former professional baseball player. He played all or part of 13 seasons in Major League Baseball, with most of his career spent with the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Arizona Diamondbacks, then with several other teams during his last four years. A middle infielder, Womack was recognized for his speed and base-stealing prowess and his key hits in the 2001 playoffs which led to the 2001 World Series win over the New York Yankees.\n\nWomack was born in Java, Virginia. He is a graduate of Gretna High School in Gretna, Virginia and Guilford College in Greensboro, North Carolina.\n\nWomack was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1991 and became their everyday second baseman in 1997. That year, which was his first full year in the majors, he played in his only All-Star Game and led the National League in stolen bases (60). In 1998, he again led the National League in stolen bases (58). After the 1998 season, he was traded to the Diamondbacks for two minor leaguers. The Diamondbacks moved Womack from second base to right field in 1999, then to shortstop in 2000. In 1999, Womack led the major leagues in stolen bases (72) which set a Diamondback record for most stolen bases in a season.\n\nWomack was an important part of the Arizona Diamondbacks' World Championship Team in 2001, especially with two key base hits that both came in the bottom of the ninth inning of deciding games in the playoffs. Womack ended the first-round series with a walk-off single off the Cardinals' Steve Kline. Later, Womack set up Luis Gonzalez' famous game-winning single in Game 7 of the World Series with a game-tying one-out hit against the Yankees' Mariano Rivera. Womack's game-tying double was cited by the Wall Street Journal as the most significant clutch hit in baseball history.\nWomack owns the Diamondbacks record for most stolen bases in a career (182).\n\nWomack signed with the Cardinals for 2004, and he was moved back to his original position at second base. After recovering from Tommy John surgery and a disappointing 2003 season, Womack batted a career-high .307 with five home runs, 38 runs batted in, and 26 stolen bases for the Cardinals.\n\nAfter the 2004 season, Womack chose to sign with the New York Yankees, rather than wait for the Cardinals to offer him an extension. Despite turning in a productive 2004, Womack struggled with the Yankees in 2005, losing his starting second base job to Robinson Canó.\n\nIn 2006, after being released by the Reds, the Chicago Cubs signed him to a minor league deal and called him up on May 26. Womack was designated for assignment on June 30 and became a free agent on July 10. He received a non-roster invitation to spring training with the Washington Nationals for the 2007 season, but was released on March 8, ending his playing career.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842698", "title": "Loren Eiseley", "text": "Loren Eiseley\n\nLoren Eiseley (September 3, 1907 – July 9, 1977) was an American anthropologist, educator, philosopher, and natural science writer, who taught and published books from the 1950s through the 1970s. He received many honorary degrees and was a fellow of multiple professional societies. At his death, he was Benjamin Franklin Professor of Anthropology and History of Science at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nHe was a \"scholar and writer of imagination and grace,\" whose reputation and accomplishments extended far beyond the campus where he taught for 30 years. \"Publishers Weekly\" referred to him as \"the modern Thoreau.\" The broad scope of his writing reflected upon such topics as the mind of Sir Francis Bacon, the prehistoric origins of man, and the contributions of Charles Darwin.\n\nEiseley's reputation was established primarily through his books, including \"The Immense Journey\" (1957), \"Darwin's Century\" (1958), \"The Unexpected Universe\" (1969), \"The Night Country\" (1971), and his memoir, \"All the Strange Hours\" (1975). Science author Orville Prescott praised him as a scientist who \"can write with poetic sensibility and with a fine sense of wonder and of reverence before the mysteries of life and nature.\" Naturalist author Mary Ellen Pitts saw his combination of literary and nature writings as his \"quest, not simply for bringing together science and literature ... but a continuation of what the 18th and 19th century British naturalists and Thoreau had done.\" In praise of \"The Unexpected Universe\", Ray Bradbury remarked, \"[Eiseley] is every writer's writer, and every human's human ... One of us, yet most uncommon ...\" \nAccording to his obituary in the \"New York Times\", the feeling and philosophical motivation of the entire body of Eiseley's work was best expressed in one of his essays, \"The Enchanted Glass:\" \"The anthropologist wrote of the need for the contemplative naturalist, a man who, in a less frenzied era, had time to observe, to speculate, and to dream.\" Shortly before his death he received an award from the Boston Museum of Science for his \"outstanding contribution to the public understanding of science\" and another from the U.S. Humane Society for his \"significant contribution for the improvement of life and environment in this country.\"\n\nBorn in Lincoln, Nebraska, Eiseley lived his childhood with a hardworking father and deaf mother who may have suffered from mental illness. Their home was located on the outskirts of town where, as author Naomi Brill writes, it was \"removed from the people and the community from which they felt set apart through poverty and family misfortune.\" His autobiography, \"All the Strange Hours\", begins with his \"childhood experiences as a sickly afterthought, weighed down by the loveless union of his parents.\"\n\nHis father, Clyde, was a hardware salesman who worked long hours for little pay, writes Brill. However, as an amateur Shakespearean actor, he was able to give his son a \"love for beautiful language and writing.\" His mother, Daisey Corey, was a self-taught prairie artist who was considered a beautiful woman. She lost her hearing as a child and sometimes exhibited irrational and destructive behavior. This left Eiseley feeling distant from her and may have contributed to his parents' unhappy marriage.\n\nLiving at the edge of town, however, led to Eiseley's early interest in the natural world, to which he turned when being at home was too difficult. There, he would play in the caves and creek banks nearby. Fortunately, there were others who opened the door to a happier life. His half-brother, Leo, for instance, gave him a copy of \"Robinson Crusoe\", with which he taught himself to read. Thereafter, he managed to find ways to get to the public library and became a voracious reader.\n\nEiseley later attended the Lincoln Public Schools; in high school, he wrote that he wanted to be a nature writer. He would later describe the lands around Lincoln as \"flat and grass-covered and smiling so serenely up at the sun that they seemed forever youthful, untouched by mind or time—a sunlit, timeless prairie over which nothing passed but antelope or wandering bird.\" But, disturbed by his home situation and the illness and recent death of his father, he dropped out of school and worked at menial jobs.\n\nEiseley enrolled in the University of Nebraska, where he wrote for the newly formed journal, \"Prairie Schooner\", and went on archaeology digs for the school's natural history museum, Morrill Hall. In 1927, however, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis and left the university to move to the western desert, believing the drier air would improve his condition. While there, he soon became restless and unhappy, which led him to hoboing around the country by hopping on freight trains (as many did during the Great Depression). Professor of religion, Richard Wentz, writes about this period:\n\nLoren Eiseley had been a drifter in his youth. From the plains of Nebraska he had wandered across the American West. Sometimes sickly, at other times testing his strength with that curious band of roving exiles who searched the land above the rippling railroad ties, he explored his soul as he sought to touch the distant past. He became a naturalist and a bone hunter because something about the landscape had linked his mind to the birth and death of life itself.\n\nEiseley eventually returned to the University of Nebraska and received a B.A. degree in English and a B.S. degree in Geology/Anthropology. While at the university, he served as editor of the literary magazine \"The Prairie Schooner\", and published his poetry and short stories. Undergraduate expeditions to western Nebraska and the southwest to hunt for fossils and human artifacts provided the inspiration for much of his early work. He later noted that he came to anthropology from paleontology, preferring to leave human burial sites undisturbed unless destruction threatened them.\n\nEiseley received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937 and wrote his dissertation entitled \"Three Indices of Quaternary Time and Their Bearing Upon Pre-History: a Critique\", which launched his academic career. He began teaching at the University of Kansas that same year. During World War II, Eiseley taught anatomy to reservist pre-med students at Kansas.\n\nIn 1944 he left the University of Kansas to assume the role of head of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Oberlin College in Ohio. In 1947 he returned to the University of Pennsylvania to head its Anthropology Department. He was elected president of the American Institute of Human Paleontology in 1949. From 1959 to 1961, he was provost at the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1961 the University of Pennsylvania created a special interdisciplinary professorial chair for him.\n\nEiseley was also a fellow of many distinguished professional societies, including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Institute of Arts and Letters and the American Philosophical Society.\n\nAt the time of his death in 1977, he was Benjamin Franklin Professor of Anthropology and History of Science, and the curator of the Early Man section at the University of Pennsylvania Museum. He had received thirty-six honorary degrees over a period of twenty years, and was the most honored member of the University of Pennsylvania since Benjamin Franklin. In 1976 he won the Bradford Washburn Award of the Boston Museum of Science for his \"outstanding contribution to the public understanding of science\" and the Joseph Wood Krutch Medal from the Humane Society of the United States for his \"significant contribution for the improvement of life and the environment in this country.\"\n\nIn addition to his scientific and academic work, Eiseley began in the mid-1940s to publish the essays which brought him to the attention of a wider audience. Anthropologist Pat Shipman writes,\n\nthe words that flowed from his pen ... the images and insights he revealed, the genius of the man as a writer, outweigh his social disability. The words were what kept him in various honored posts; the words were what caused the students to flock to his often aborted courses; the words were what earned him esteemed lectureships and prizes. His contemporaries failed to see the duality of the man, confusing the deep, wise voice of Eiseley's writings with his own personal voice. He was a natural fugitive, a fox at the wood's edge (in his own metaphor) ...\n\nEiseley published works in a number of different genres including poetry, autobiography, history of science, biography, and nonfictional essays. In each piece of writing, he consistently used a poetic writing style. Eiseley's style mirrors what he called the concealed essay—a piece of writing that unites the personal dimension with more scientific thoughts. His writing was unique in that it could convey complex ideas about human origin and the relationship between humans and the natural world to a nonscientific audience. Robert G. Franke describes Eiseley's essays as theatrical and dramatic. He also notes the influence his father's hobby as an amateur Shakespearean actor may have had on Eiseley's writing, pointing out that his essays often contain dramatic elements that are usually present in plays.\n\nIn describing Eiseley's writing, Richard Wentz wrote, \"As the works of any naturalist might, Eiseley's essays and poems deal with the flora and fauna of North America. They probe the concept of evolution, which consumed so much of his scholarly attention, examining the bones and shards, the arrowpoints and buried treasures. Every scientific observation leads to reflection.\" \n\nIn an interview on National Public Radio (NPR), author Michael Lind said,\n\nBefore the rise of a self-conscious intelligentsia, most educated people – as well as the unlettered majority – spent most of their time in the countryside or, if they lived in cities, were a few blocks away from farmland or wilderness ... At the risk of sounding countercultural, I suspect that thinkers who live in sealed, air-conditioned boxes and work by artificial light (I am one) are as unnatural as apes in cages at zoos. Naturalists like Eiseley in that sense are the most normal human beings to be found among intellectuals, because they spend a lot of time outdoors and know the names of the plants and animals they see ... For all of his scientific erudition, Eiseley has a poetic, even cinematic, imagination.\n\nRichard Wentz describes what he feels are the significance and purposes of Eiseley's writings:\"For Loren Eiseley, writing itself becomes a form of contemplation. Contemplation is a kind of human activity in which the mind, spirit and body are directed in solitude toward some other. Scholars and critics have not yet taken the full measure of contemplation as an art that is related to the purpose of all scholarly activity – to see things as they really are ... Using narrative, parable and exposition, Eiseley has the uncanny ability to make us feel that we are accompanying him on a journey into the very heart of the universe. Whether he is explicating history or commenting on the ideas of a philosopher, a scientist or a theologian, he takes us with him on a personal visit.\"\n\nHowever, because of Eiseley's intense and poetic writing style and his focus on nature and cosmology, he was not accepted or understood by most of his colleagues. \"You,\" a friend told him, \"are a freak, you know. A God-damned freak, and life is never going to be easy for you. You like scholarship, but the scholars, some of them, anyhow, are not going to like you because you don't stay in the hole where God supposedly put you. You keep sticking your head out and looking around. In a university that's inadvisable.\" \n\nHis first book, \"The Immense Journey\", was a collection of writings about the history of humanity, and it proved to be that rare science book that appealed to a mass audience. It has sold over a million copies and has been published in at least 16 languages. Besides being his first book, \"The Immense Journey\" was also Eiseley's most well known book and established him as a writer with the ability to combine science and humanity in a poetic way. This book was originally published in 1946. Then, it was published again in 1957, a few years after the Piltdown Man hoax discovery.\n\nIn the book Eiseley conveys his sense of wonder at the depth of time and the vastness of the universe. He uses his own experiences, reactions to the paleontological record, and wonderment at the world to address the topic of evolution. More specifically, the text concentrates on human evolution and human ignorance. In \"The Immense Journey\", Eiseley follows the journey from human ignorance at the beginning of life to his own wonderment about the future of mankind. Marston Bates writes,\n\nIt seems to me ... that Eiseley is looking at man in a quite hard-headed fashion, because he is willing to sketch problems for which he has no present and sure solution. We are not going to find the answers in human evolution until we have framed the right questions, and the questions are difficult because they involve both body and mind, physique and culture—tools and symbols as well as cerebral configurations.\n\nAuthor Orville Prescott wrote,\n\nConsider the case of Loren Eiseley, author of \"The Immense Journey\", who can sit on a mountain slope beside a prairie-dog town and imagine himself back in the dawn of the Age of mammals eighty million years ago: 'There by a tree root I could almost make him out, that shabby little Paleocene rat, eternal tramp and world wanderer, father of all mankind.' ... his prose is often lyrically beautiful, something that considerable reading in the works of anthropologists had not led me to expect. ... The subjects discussed here include the human ancestral tree, water and its significance to life, the mysteries of cellular life, 'the secret and remote abysses' of the sea, the riddle of why human beings alone among living creatures have brains capable of abstract thought and are far superior to their mere needs for survival, the reasons why Dr. Eiseley is convinced that there are no men or man-like animals on other planets, . ...\n\nHe offers an example of Eiseley's style: \"There is no logical reason for the existence of a snowflake any more than there is for evolution. It is an apparition from that mysterious shadow world beyond nature, that final world which contains—if anything contains—the explanation of men and catfish and green leaves.\"\n\nThis book's subtitle is, \"Evolution and the Men Who Discovered It.\" Eiseley documented that animal variation, extinction, and a lengthy history of the earth were observed from the 1600s onward. Scientists groped towards a theory with increasingly detailed observations. They became aware that evolution had occurred without knowing how. Evolution was \"in the air\" and part of the intellectual discourse both before and after \"On the Origin of Species\" was published. The publisher describes it thus:\n\nAt the heart of the account is Charles Darwin, but the story neither begins nor ends with him. Starting with the seventeenth-century notion of the Great Chain of Being, Dr. Eiseley traces the achievements and discoveries of men in many fields of science who paved the way for Darwin; and the book concludes with an extensive discussion of the ways in which Darwin's work has been challenged, improved upon, and occasionally refuted during the past hundred years.\n\nPersons whose contributions are discussed include Sir Thomas Browne, Sir Francis Bacon, Carl Linnaeus, Benoît de Maillet, the Comte de Buffon, Erasmus Darwin, Louis Agassiz, Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, James Hutton, William Smith, Georges Cuvier, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, Sir Charles Lyell, Thomas Robert Malthus, William Wells, Patrick Matthew, Karl von Baer, Robert Chambers, Thomas Henry Huxley, Sir John Richardson, Alexander Humboldt, Gregor Mendel, Hugo De Vries, W. L. Johannsen, Lambert Quételet, and Alfred Russel Wallace. Critics discussed include Fleeming Jenkin, A.W. Bennett, Lord Kelvin, and Adam Sedgwick, both a mentor and a critic.\n\nAccording to naturalist author Mary Ellen Pitts, in the \"seminal\" \"Darwin's Century\", Eiseley was studying the history of evolutionary thinking, and he came to see that \"as a result of scientific studies, nature has become externalized, particularized, mechanized, separated from the human and fragmented, reduced to conflict without consideration of cooperation, confined to reductionist and positivist study.\" The results for humankind, \"as part of the 'biota' – Eiseley's concern as a writer – are far reaching.\" In the book, his unique impact as a thinker and a literary figure emerges as he reexamines science and the way man understands science. She concludes that, for Eiseley, \"Nature emerges as a metonym for a view of the physical world, of the 'biota,' and of humankind that must be reexamined if life is to survive.\"\n\nIn his conclusion, Eiseley quotes Darwin: \"If we choose to let conjecture run wild, then animals, our fellow brethren in pain, disease, suffering and famine—our slaves in the most laborious works, our companions in our amusements—they may partake of our origin in one common ancestor—we may be all melted together.\" Eiseley adds, \"If he had never conceived of natural selection, if he had never written the \"Origin,\" it would still stand as a statement of almost clairvoyant perception.\"\n\nThe book won the Phi Beta Kappa prize for best book in science in 1958.\n\nIn discussing \"The Firmament of Time\", Professor of Zoology Leslie Dunn wrote, \"How can man of 1960, burdened with the knowledge of the world external to him, and with the consciousness that scientific knowledge is attained through continually interfering with nature, 'bear his part' and gain the hope and confidence to live in the new world to which natural science has given birth? ... The answer comes in the eloquent, moving central essay of his new book.\" \"The New Yorker\" wrote, \"Dr. Eiseley describes with zest and admiration the giant steps that have led man, in a scant three hundred years, to grasp the nature of his extraordinary past and to substitute a natural world for a world of divine creation and intervention ... An irresistible inducement to partake of the almost forgotten excitements of reflection.\" A review in \"The Chicago Tribune\" added, \"[This book] has a warm feeling for all natural phenomena; it has a rapport with man and his world and his problems; ... it has hope and belief. And it has the beauty of prose that characterizes Eiseley's philosophical moods.\"\n\n\"The Firmament of Time\" was awarded the 1961 John Burroughs Medal for the best publication in the field of Nature Writing.\n\n\nPoet W.H. Auden wrote, \"The main theme of \"The Unexpected Universe\" is Man as the Quest Hero, the wanderer, the voyager, the seeker after adventure, knowledge, power, meaning, and righteousness.\" He quotes from the book:\n\nEvery time we walk along a beach some ancient urge disturbs us so that we find ourselves shedding shoes and garments or scavenging among seaweed and whitened timbers like the homesick refugees of a long war ... Mostly the animals understand their roles, but man, by comparison, seems troubled by a message that, it is often said, he cannot quite remember or has gotten wrong ... Bereft of instinct, he must search continually for meanings ... Man was a reader before he became a writer, a reader of what Coleridge once called the mighty alphabet of the universe.\n\nEvolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky described Dr. Eiseley as\n\nGregory McNamee of Amazon.com writes, \"In 1910 young Loren Eiseley watched the passage of Halley's Comet with his father. The boy who became a famous naturalist was never again to see the spectacle except in his imagination. That childhood event contributed to the profound sense of time and space that marks \"The Invisible Pyramid\". This collection of essays, first published shortly after Americans landed on the moon, explores inner and outer space, the vastness of the cosmos, and the limits of what can be known. Bringing poetic insight to scientific discipline, Eiseley makes connections between civilizations past and present, multiple universes, humankind, and nature.\n\nEiseley took the occasion of the lunar landing to consider how far humans had to go in understanding their own small corner of the universe, their home planet, much less what he called the 'cosmic prison' of space. Likening humans to the microscopic phagocytes that dwell within our bodies, he grumpily remarks, 'We know only a little more extended reality than the hypothetical creature below us. Above us may lie realms it is beyond our power to grasp.' Science, he suggests, would be better put to examining that which lies immediately before us, although he allows that the quest to explore space is so firmly rooted in Western technological culture that it was unlikely to be abandoned simply because of his urging. Eiseley's opinion continues to be influential among certain environmentalists, and these graceful essays show why that should be so.\n\nBook excerpt:\n\nMan would not be man if his dreams did not exceed his grasp. ... Like John Donne, man lies in a close prison, yet it is dear to him. Like Donne's, his thoughts at times overleap the sun and pace beyond the body. If I term humanity a slime mold organism it is because our present environment suggest it. If I remember the sunflower forest it is because from its hidden reaches man arose. The green world is his sacred center. In moments of sanity he must still seek refuge there. ... If I dream by contrast of the eventual drift of the star voyagers through the dilated time of the universe, it is because I have seen thistledown off to new worlds and am at heart a voyager who, in this modern time, still yearns for the lost country of his birth.\n\nKirkus Reviews wrote,\n\nIn a published essay, University of Pennsylvania alumnus Carl Hoffman wrote,\n\nAn old man who had done almost all of his writing late, late at night, was speaking to a younger man who liked to read in those same dark hours. In a chapter entitled 'One Night's Dying,' Eiseley said to me: 'It is thus that one day and the next are welded together, and that one night's dying becomes tomorrow's birth. I, who do not sleep, can tell you this.' Today, well into my fifties, in the midst of a lifetime of almost compulsive reading, I still regard \"The Night Country\" as my all-time favorite book.\n\n\"In \"All the Strange Hours\",\" states Amazon.com,\n\nEiseley turns his considerable powers of reflection and discovery on his own life to weave a compelling story, related with the modesty, grace, and keen eye for a telling anecdote that distinguish his work. His story begins with his childhood experiences as a sickly afterthought, weighed down by the loveless union of his parents. From there he traces the odyssey that led to his search for early postglacial man—and into inspiriting philosophical territory—culminating in his uneasy achievement of world renown. Eiseley crafts an absorbing self-portrait of a man who has thought deeply about his place in society as well as humanity's place in the natural world.\n\nHis friend and science fiction author Ray Bradbury wrote, \"The book will be read and cherished in the year 2001. It will go to the Moon and Mars with future generations. Loren Eiseley's work changed my life.\" And from the \"Philadelphia Sunday Bulletin\": \"An astonishing breadth of knowledge, infinite capacity for wonder and compassionate interest for everyone and everything in the universe.\n\n\"Darwin and the Mysterious Mr. X\" attempts to solve a mystery: \"Samuel Butler, a master of acrimonious polemic, confronted Charles Darwin with the sorest of all scientific subjects—a dispute about priority. In \"Evolution Old and New\" (1879), Butler accused Darwin of slighting the evolutionary speculations of Buffon, Lamarck, and his own grandfather, Erasmus Darwin.\" The Kirkus Reviews calls it, \"... an essay devoted to resurrecting the name and importance of Edward Blyth, a 19th-century naturalist. Eiseley credits Blyth with the development of the idea, and even the coining of the words \"natural selection,\" which Darwin absorbed and enlarged upon ... [and] some thoughts on Darwin's \"The Descent of Man\"; and a concluding speculation on the meaning of evolution. The last piece is very much Eiseley's poetic from-whence-do-we come/whither-do-we-go vein.\" Many experts on Darwin such as Stephen Jay Gould disagreed with Eiseley. Michael Ruse, a philosopher of science, even stated \"If a work like this was handed into me for a course. I would give it a failing grade.\" Howard Gruber wrote that \"Eiseley was wrong on every count, both in the broad picture he painted of the Darwin‐Blyth relationship and in the minutiae he scratched up to support his claims.\"\n\nJust before his death Eiseley asked his wife to destroy the personal notebooks which he had kept since 1953. However, she compromised by disassembling them so they couldn't be used. Later, after great effort, his good friend Kenneth Heuer managed to reassemble most of his notebooks into readable form. \"The Lost Notebooks of Loren Eiseley\" includes a variety of Eiseley's writings including childhood stories, sketches while he was a vagabond, old family pictures, unpublished poems, portions of unfinished novels, and letters to and from literary admirers like W.H. Auden, Howard Nemerov, Lewis Mumford and Ray Bradbury.\n\nIn a review of the book, author Robert Finch writes, \"Like Melville, Eiseley thought of himself, and by extension all mankind, as 'an orphan, a wood child, a changeling,' a cosmic outcast born into a world that afforded him no true home.\" He adds that his \"distinctive gift as a writer was to take powerfully formative personal influences of family and place and fuse them with his intellectual meditations on universal topics such as evolution, human consciousness and the weight of time. ... he found metaphors that released a powerful view of man's fate in the modern world.\" As Kenneth Heuer writes, \"there are countless examples of Eiseley's empathy with life in all its forms, and particularly with its lost outcasts ... the love that transcends the boundaries of species was the highest spiritual expression he knew.\n\nFinch adds, \"We are grateful for a life and a sensibility that would be welcome in any age, but never more so than in our increasingly depersonalized world. ... he made a generation of readers 'see the world through his eyes.' In an undated passage, circa 1959, Eiseley wrote, 'Man is alone in the universe ... Only in the act of love, in rare and hidden communion with nature, does man escape himself.'\" \"The Lost Notebooks\" contains numerous examples of his \"creative and sympathetic imagination, even when that creation takes place in the solitude of journals never meant for public eyes.\"\n\nFrom other reviews: \"Eiseley has rightly been called 'the modern Thoreau.'\" –\"Publishers Weekly;\" \"[an] extensive and enlightening glimpses ... into the intellectual and emotional workshop of one of the most original and influential American essayists of this century.\" –\"New York Times Book Review;\" \"Eiseley's great genius for the art of the word coupled with a poetic insight into the connection between science and humanism shines through in page after page ... This is a book that will be read and quoted and whose pages will grow thin with wear from hands in continued search of new meaning within its words and images.\" –\"Los Angeles Times;\" \"it will enhance any dedicated reader's knowledge of this most remarkable literary naturalist ... They provide more than a glimpse into Eiseley's mind and imagination.\" –\"The Bloomsbury Review;\" \"It is a joy, like finding a lost Rembrandt in the attic, to discover that Eiseley left behind a legacy.\" –\"San Francisco Examiner-Chronicle.\"\n\nRichard Wentz, professor of religious studies, noted that \"The Christian Century\" magazine called attention to a study of Loren Eiseley by saying: \"The religious chord did not sound in him, but he vibrated to many of the concerns historically related to religion.\" Wentz adds, \"Although Eiseley may not have considered his writing as an expression of American spiritually, one feels that he was quite mindful of its religious character. As an heir of Emerson and Thoreau, he is at home among the poets and philosophers and among those scientists whose observations also were a form of contemplation of the universe.\"\n\nBut Wentz considered the inherent contradictions in the statements: \"We do not really know what to do with religiousness when it expresses itself outside those enclosures which historians and social scientists have carefully labeled religions. What, after all, does it mean to say, \"the religious chord does not sound in someone,\" but that the person vibrates to the concerns historically related to religion? If the person vibrates to such concerns, the chord is religious whether or not it manages to resound in the temples and prayer houses of the devout.\"\n\nWentz quotes Eiseley, from \"All the Strange Hours\" and \"The Star Thrower\", to indicate that he was, in fact, a religious thinker:\n\nWentz encompasses such quotes in his partial conclusion:\n\nHe was indeed a scientist – a bone hunter, he called himself. Archaeologist, anthropologist and naturalist, he devoted a great deal of time and reflection to the detective work of scientific observation. However, if we are to take seriously his essays, we cannot ignore the evidence of his constant meditation on matters of ultimate order and meaning. Science writer Connie Barlow says Eiseley wrote eloquent books from a perspective that today would be called Religious Naturalism.\nWentz writes, \"Loren Eiseley is very much in the tradition of Henry David Thoreau. He takes the circumstances of whatever \"business\" he is about as the occasion for new questioning, new searching for some sign, some glimpse into the meaning of the unknown that confronts him at every center of existence.\" He quotes Eiseley from \"The Star Thrower\", \"We are, in actuality, students of that greater order known as nature. It is into nature that man vanishes.\" \n\nIn comparing Eiseley with Thoreau, he discusses clear similarities in their life and philosophies. He notes that Eiseley was, like Thoreau, a 'spiritual wanderer through the deserts of the modern world.' However, notes Wentz, \"Thoreau had left the seclusion of Walden Pond in order to pace the fields of history, sorting out the artifacts that people had dropped along the way.\" But \"it was those 'fossil thoughts' and 'mindprints' that Eiseley himself explored in his wanderings. These explorations gave depth, a tragic dimension and catharsis to what he called the 'one great drama that concerns us most, the supreme mystery, man.'\"\n\nEiseley's writing often includes his belief that mankind does not have enough evidence to determine exactly how humans came to be. In \"The Immense Journey\", he writes, \"... many lines of seeming relatives, rather than merely one, lead to man. It is as though we stood at the heart of a maze and no longer remembered how we had come there.\" According to Wentz, Eiseley realized that there is nothing below a certain depth that can truly be explained, and quotes Eiseley as saying that there is \"nothing to explain the necessity of life, nothing to explain the hunger of the elements to become life. ... \" and that \"the human version of evolutionary events [is] perhaps too simplistic for belief.\" \n\nEiseley talked about the illusions of science in his book, \"The Firmament of Time\":\n\nA scientist writing around the turn of the century remarked that all of the past generations of men have lived and died in a world of illusion. The unconscious irony in his observation consists in the fact that this man assumed the progress of science to have been so great that a clear vision of the world without illusion was, by his own time, possible. It is needless to add that he wrote before Einstein ... at a time when Mendel was just about to be rediscovered, and before the advances in the study of radioactivity ...\n\nWentz noted Eiseley's belief that science may have become misguided in its goals: \"Loren Eiseley thought that much of the modern scientific enterprise had removed humanity ever farther from its sense of responsibility to the natural world it had left in order to create an artificial world to satisfy its own insatiable appetites.\" Interpreting Eiseley's messages, he adds, \"It would be well, he tells us, to heed the message of the Buddha, who knew that 'one cannot proceed upon the path of human transcendence until one has made interiorly in one's soul a road into the future.' Spaces within stretch as far as those without.\" \n\n\"In essay after essay,\" writes Wentz, \"he writes as a magus, a spiritual master or a shaman who has seen into the very heart of the universe and shares his healing vision with those who live in a world of feeble sight. We must learn to see again, he tells us; we must rediscover the true center of the self in the otherness of nature.\" \n\nLoren Eiseley died July 9, 1977, of cardiac arrest following surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. He was buried in West Laurel Hill Cemetery in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania. Eiseley's wife, Mabel Langdon Eiseley, died July 27, 1986, and is buried next to him, in the Westlawn section of the cemetery, in Lot 366. The inscription on their headstone reads, \"We loved the earth but could not stay\", which is a line from his poem \"The Little Treasures\".\n\nA library in the Lincoln City Libraries public library system is named after Eiseley.\n\nLoren Eiseley was awarded the Distinguished Nebraskan Award and inducted into the Nebraska Hall of Fame. A bust of his likeness resides in the Nebraska State Capitol.\n\nIn summarizing some of Eiseley's contributions, the editor of \"The Bloomsbury Review\" wrote,\n\nThere can be no question that Loren Eiseley maintains a place of eminence among nature writers. His extended explorations of human life and mind, set against the backdrop of our own and other universes are like those to be found in every book of nature writing currently available ... We now routinely expect our nature writers to leap across the chasm between science, natural history, and poetry with grace and ease. Eiseley made the leap at a time when science was science, and literature was, well, literature ... His writing delivered science to nonscientists in the lyrical language of earthly metaphor, irony, simile, and narrative, all paced like a good mystery.\n\nOn October 25, 2007, the Governor of Nebraska, Dave Heineman, officially declared that year \"The Centennial Year of Loren Eiseley.\" In a written proclamation, he encouraged all Nebraskans\n\nto read Loren Eisely's writings and to appreciate in those writings the richness and beauty of his language, his ability to depict the long, slow passage of time and the meaning of the past in the present, his portrayal of the relationships among all living things and his concern for the future.\n\n\nContains \"The Immense Journey\", \"The Firmament of Time\", \"The Unexpected Universe\", \"The Invisible Pyramid\", \"The Night Country\", essays from \"The Star Thrower\", and uncollected prose (2016) Library of America.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842700", "title": "St George the Martyr, Southwark", "text": "St George the Martyr, Southwark\n\nSt George the Martyr is a church in the historic Borough district of south London. It lies within the modern-day London Borough of Southwark, on Borough High Street at the junction with Long Lane, Marshalsea Road, and Tabard Street. St George the Martyr is named after Saint George. The church is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nThe church has strong associations with Charles Dickens, whose father was imprisoned for debt in the Marshalsea prison. The surviving wall of the prison adjoins the north side of the churchyard. Dickens himself lived nearby, in Lant Street, lodging in a house that belonged to the Vestry Clerk of St George's. This was during the darkest period of his life when, as a teenager, with his father in prison, he had to work in the 'blacking factory', and his literary career must have seemed an impossible dream. Later, he was to set several scenes of the novel \"Little Dorrit\" in and around St George's Church. There is a small representation of Little Dorrit in the east window of the church.\n\nIt is also a recognised church of the City of London Company of Parish Clerks and the guild church of the Guildable Manor. From 2008 the annual Southwark Quit Rents ceremony, before the Queen's Remembrancer has taken place there.\n\nAccording to traditional hagiography, the saint served as a soldier in the Roman Army and was killed on the orders of the emperor Diocletian in 303 for refusing to persecute Christians and confessing to his own Christianity. The earliest reference to this church is in the Annals of Bermondsey Abbey, which claims that the church was given by Thomas Ardern and Thomas his son in 1122. The date follows the Battle of Acre when the St George myth became adopted by English crusaders; perhaps the church dedication is related to the Arderns' involvement in the Crusade. This gift included tithes from their manor at Horndon in Essex and \"land of London Bridge returning five solidos\". This statement means that this St George's is the first and the oldest church with this dedication in the present London area and it predates Edward III's adoption of George as the patron of the Garter by over 200 years. The statement is also the first reference to London Bridge's endowment lands. The present priest was nominated by the City's Bridge House Estates.\n\nOn Henry V's return from the battle of Agincourt in 1415 he was welcomed by the Aldermen of London on the steps of the church. The 'Agincourt Song' was commissioned as part of the celebration. In this battle the standard with the red cross was used for the first time. In the same year St George became the patron saint of England.\n\nThe west tower dominates views along Borough High Street from both the north and south due to the curve in the street at this point, where it now meets Great Dover Street. Originally, a much narrower road to the south of the church called Church Street led into Kent Street (now renamed Tabard Street), the historic route to Dover. Due to the volume of traffic, Great Dover Street was cut through parallel to Kent Street as part of the road network enhancements associated with the new Westminster Bridge and London Bridge route improvements, in 1750. Tabard Street was subsequently extended through the churchyard on the north side of the church, leaving the church on an island site.\nThe present church is believed to be the third on this site. There was a Norman church of unknown appearance, inscribed stones from it were discovered in the second church. This was replaced at the end of the fourteenth century by a church with a bell tower, which may have been from where Antonin de Wyngaerde surveyed at least part of his plan view of London, which includes a drawing of the church, but slightly out of position as might occur if drawn onto the perspective latterly. The church also appears to be that in William Hogarth's engraving of \"Southwark Fair\" made in 1733, a year before it was demolished. The church was rebuilt in a Classical style to the designs of John Price between 1734 and 1736, partly funded by £6,000 from the Commission for Building Fifty New Churches. The major City Livery Companies and the Bridge House Estates also supported this rebuilding, their arms decorate the nave ceiling and stained glass.\n\nIn 1899, the crypt was cleared and 1,484 coffins were removed and re-interred at Brookwood Cemetery.\n\nThe foundations of the south wall were strengthened in 1938 and helped save the building from collapse during the Second World War, when the damage from enemy action was considerable.\n\nThe red brick and Portland Stone structure of the church has suffered from considerable subsidence damage, and the nave was declared unsafe in 2000, although services continued in other parts of the building. In September 2005, St George the Martyr received funding via the Heritage Lottery Fund for repairs and refurbishments, which involve complete underpinning of the building, and the lowering of the floor levels in the crypt to create additional space. A large number of lead Georgian coffins were removed from the crypt to allow the works to take place. Subsequent archaeological investigations of the ground beneath the church found substantial Medieval and Roman structures. The destruction of some archaeological remains before a fuller excavation could be completed led to controversy.\n\nThe church was closed for restoration works between September 2005 and March 2007. During this time the congregation worshipped at nearby Guy's Chapel. The new 'crypt', in fact a church hall created by the underpinning works, provides a new conference venue in central London. Services at St George's resumed on Palm Sunday 1 April 2007.\n\nThe church is built of red brick with Portland stone, and has a copper and slate roof. There is a pediment at the west entrance,\nsupported by Ionic columns. The tympanum displays reliefs of angels, and there are eight steps leading up to the entrance.\n\nThe tower is built of Portland stone, with a large spire. On top of the spire is a ball and weather vane.\n\nInside, the nave has a gallery on three sides, with a pair of fluted Ionic columns supporting the gallery at the west end. On the ceiling is a painting done by Basil Champneys in 1897 of cherubs breaking through a clouded sky, with texts on a ribbon. The coats of arms of four of the City Livery Companies (the Skinners, Grocers, Fishmongers and Drapers) appear on a frieze. The chancel has three bays. There is a tall pulpit on four Ionic columns, and an octagonal font of grey marble.\n\nThe east window of the church, which includes a kneeling figure of Dickens' \"Little Dorrit\", was designed by Marion Grant.\n\nLike St James Garlickhythe in the City of London, St George the Martyr has two reliefs of the Royal Arms. Both are of the House of Stuart. The main one, located on the gallery at the west end, is said to have come from the former church of St Michael Wood Street.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842703", "title": "Joggling board", "text": "Joggling board\n\nA joggling or jostling board is a long, pliable board that is supported on each end by wooden stands. The board is springy and a person sitting on it can easily bounce up and down. Sources differ on the origination; its usage in the Lowcountry of South Carolina around Charleston in the early 19th century is however rather well-documented.\n\nTraditionally, it is painted Charleston green. The joggling board's popularity has slowly been coming back, mostly as decorations on lawns and front porches.\n\nMartha Graham bought several joggling boards from Old Charleston Joggling Board Co. on a visit to Charleston and used them as props in her dance Maple Leaf Rag. Photos from the rehearsals show the variety of ways the board was used. The company posed with Graham on these boards for the New York Times.\n\nThe main board preferably should be between 10 and 16 feet (3 to 5 meters) long and wide enough to sit on. Traditionally the boards were made from the flexible wood of a southern yellow pine tree. The end pieces, which are often shaped similar to a rocking chair to facilitate rocking side to side, hold the main board at sitting height.\n\nAccording to one South Carolina legend, the first joggling board was built in the early 19th century at Acton Plantation, which was located in the \"Midlands\" of South Carolina, near Stateburg in Sumter County; it is maintained that it was constructed with reference to the design of a model shipped to the plantation owner's sister by relatives at the family estate of Gilmerton House in Scotland, and originally developed for exercise purposes.\n"}
{"id": "1842704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842704", "title": "Berthier—Maskinongé—Delanaudière", "text": "Berthier—Maskinongé—Delanaudière\n\nBerthier—Maskinongé—Delanaudière was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from Berthier—Maskinongé. It consisted of the county of Berthier and the town of Berthierville, the county of Maskinongé and the town of Louiseville and Gouin township in the county of Joliette.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Berthier and Joliette.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842706", "title": "Dollard (electoral district)", "text": "Dollard (electoral district)\n\nDollard was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Laval and Mount Royal.\n\nIn 1966, it was defined to consist of:\n\nIn 1976, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Pierrefonds—Dollard and Saint-Laurent—Cartierville ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842710", "title": "Etorphine", "text": "Etorphine\n\nEtorphine (M99) is a semi-synthetic opioid possessing an analgesic potency approximately 1,000–3,000 times that of morphine. It was first prepared in 1960 from oripavine, which does not generally occur in opium poppy extract but rather the related plants \"Papaver orientale\" and \"Papaver bracteatum\". It was later reproduced in 1963 by a research group at MacFarlan Smith in Gorgie, Edinburgh, led by Kenneth Bentley. It can also be produced from thebaine.\n\nEtorphine is available legally only for veterinary use and is strictly governed by law. It is often used to immobilize elephants and other large mammals. Diprenorphine (Revivon) is an opioid receptor antagonist that can be administered in proportion to the amount of etorphine used (1.3 times) to reverse its effects. Veterinary-strength etorphine is fatal to humans. For this reason the package as supplied to vets always includes the human antidote as well as etorphine.\n\nThe human antidote is generally naloxone, not diprenorphine, and is always prepared before the preparation of etorphine to be immediately administered following accidental human exposure to etorphine. The in humans is 30 μg which led to the requirement that the medicine include an equal dose of an antidote, diprenorphine or naloxone.\n\nOne of its main advantages is its speed of operation, and more importantly, the speed that diprenorphine reverses its effects. The high incidence of side effects, including severe cardiopulmonary depression, has caused etorphine to fall into disfavor in general veterinary practice. However, its high potency, combined with the rapid action of both etorphine and its antagonist, diprenorphine, means that it has found a place for use in the capture of large mammals such as rhinoceroses and elephants, where rapid onset and rapid recovery are both very important. The high potency of etorphine means that sufficient etorphine can be administered to large wild mammals by projectile syringe (dart).\n\nLarge Animal Immobilon is a combination of etorphine plus acepromazine maleate. An etorphine antidote Large Animal Revivon contains mainly diprenorphine for animals and a human-specific naloxone-based antidote, which should be prepared prior to the etorphine. A 5–15 mg dose is enough to immobilize an African elephant and a 2–4 mg dose is enough to immobilize a black rhino.\n\nEtorphine is an extremely potent, non-selective full agonist of the μ-, δ-, and κ-opioid receptors. It also has relatively weak affinity for the nociceptin receptor. Etorphine has an LD of 30 μg in humans.\n\nIn Hong Kong, etorphine is regulated under Schedule 1 of Hong Kong's Chapter 134 \"Dangerous Drugs Ordinance\". It can be used legally only by health professionals and for university research purposes. The substance can be given by pharmacists under a prescription. Anyone who supplies the substance without prescription can be fined $10,000 (HKD). The penalty for trafficking or manufacturing the substance is a $5,000,000 (HKD) fine and life imprisonment. Possession of the substance for consumption without license from the Department of Health is illegal with a $1,000,000 (HKD) fine and/or 7 years of jail time.\n\nIn the Netherlands, etorphine is a Schedule I drug of the Opium Law. It is used only for veterinary purposes in zoos to immobilize large animals.\n\nIn the US, etorphine is listed as a Schedule I drug with an ACSCN of 9056, although its hydrochloride salt is classified as Schedule II with an ACSCN of 9059. For both, the 2013 annual aggregate manufacturing quota for both was zero so presumably veterinary supplies of the hydrochloride are imported from Germany and/or the UK.\n\nIn the UK, under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971, etorphine is controlled as a Class A substance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842711", "title": "Jacques-Cartier—Lasalle", "text": "Jacques-Cartier—Lasalle\n\nJacques-Cartier—Lasalle was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Jacques Cartier and Verdun—La Salle ridings. It was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Dollard, Lachine, Lasalle, Mount Royal, Notre-Dame-de-Grâce and Vaudreuil ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842713", "title": "Saint-Antoine—Westmount", "text": "Saint-Antoine—Westmount\n\nSt. Antoine—Westmount and Saint-Antoine—Westmount were federal electoral districts in Quebec, Canada, that were represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1935 to 1968.\n\n\"St. Antoine—Westmount\" riding was created in 1933 from parts of St. Antoine riding. It was abolished in 1952 when it was replaced by \"Saint-Antoine—Westmount\" riding.\n\nSaint-Antoine—Westmount was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Saint-Henri and Westmount ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nBy-election: on Mr. Abbott's acceptance of an office of emolument under the Crown, 1 July 1954\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842715", "title": "Saint-Denis (electoral district)", "text": "Saint-Denis (electoral district)\n\nSaint-Denis (also known as St. Denis and St-Denis) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1917 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1914 as \"St. Denis\" from parts of Maisonneuve riding.\n\nSt. Denis riding was abolished in 1947 when it was redistributed into Papineau (electoral district) and into a successor district, \"St-Denis\".\n\nIn 1952, the district was abolished, and a new riding, \"Saint-Denis\" was created.\n\nIn 1996, the riding was abolished.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nBy-election: On Mr. Denis' resignation, 27 December 1963\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842718", "title": "Saint-Henri, Montreal", "text": "Saint-Henri, Montreal\n\nSaint-Henri is a neighbourhood in southwestern Montreal, Quebec, Canada, in the borough of Le Sud-Ouest.\n\nSaint-Henri is usually considered to be bounded to the east by Atwater Avenue, to the west by St-Pierre exchange, to the north by Autoroute 720 and to the south by the Lachine Canal.\n\nSaint-Henri is well known as a historically French-Canadian, Irish and black working class neighbourhood. Often contrasted with wealthy Westmount or NDG looking down over the Falaise Saint-Jacques, in recent years it has been strongly affected by gentrification.\n\nThe area—historically known as Les Tanneries because of the artisans' shops where leather tanning took place—was named for St. Henry via the Église Saint-Henri, which at one time formed Place Saint-Henri along with the community's fire and police station. The bustle of a nearby passenger rail station was immortalized in the song \"Place St. Henri\" (1964) by Oscar Peterson.\n\nSaint-Henri is part of the municipal district of Saint-Henri–Petite-Bourgogne–Pointe-Saint-Charles. The borough hall for Le Sud-Ouest is located in a converted factory in Saint-Henri, bearing witness to the borough's industrial heritage.\n\nAlso located in the neighbourhood is Solin Hall, a student residence of McGill University. The former chocolate factory is home to nearly 300 students, and is the University's only off-campus residence.\n\nThere are two metro stations in Saint-Henri; Lionel-Groulx and Place-Saint-Henri.\n\nÉglise Saint-Henri was so named to commemorate Fr. Henri-Auguste Roux (1798–1831), the superior of Saint-Sulpice Seminary. The municipality of Saint-Henri was formed in 1875, joining the village of Saint-Henri and the surrounding settlements of Turcot, Brodie, Saint-Agustin and Sainte-Marguerite into one administrative unit. The municipality was incorporated into the City of Montreal in 1905.\n\nWell-known people from Saint-Henri include strongman Louis Cyr, who served as a police officer there; the Place des Hommes-Forts and the Parc Louis-Cyr are named for him. Celebrated jazz pianist Oscar Peterson grew up in Little Burgundy which is the neighborhood adjacent to Saint-Henri. Stand-up comedian Yvon Deschamps has described the daily struggle of Saint-Henri's citizens with humorous melancholy.\n\nSaint-Henri and Little Burgundy are considered to have a fairly common social makeup. Historically, Saint-Henri was occupied predominantly by French-Canadian blue-collar workers while Little Burgundy was occupied primarily by African-Canadians who worked on the railroads. Today both neighbourhoods have a population of varied ethnicity and social class, especially in the recent housing developments that have sprouted along the Lachine Canal. A great number of teenagers from neighboring districts attend Polyvalente Saint-Henri and James Lyng High School (English Montreal School Board).\n\nMany of the district's notable Art deco buildings, including Atwater Market and the historic No. 23 fire hall, were designed by Ludger Lemieux.\n\nThe neighbourhood is served by the Lionel-Groulx and Place-Saint-Henri Metro stations.\n\nThe district's working-class character was most memorably recorded by Gabrielle Roy in her novel \"The Tin Flute (Bonheur d'occasion)\".\n\nSaint-Henri has been the subject of two National Film Board of Canada (NFB) documentaries, each capturing one day in the life of the district. In 1962 Hubert Aquin directed \"À St-Henri le cinq septembre\" (\"September Five at Saint-Henri\"). In 2010, director Shannon Walsh and producer Sarah Spring oversaw a crew of sixteen videographers as they followed area residents during one summer's day to make \"À St-Henri le 26 août\", an NFB/Parabola Films co-production inspired by Aquin's cinéma-vérité classic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842719", "title": "Sainte-Marie (electoral district)", "text": "Sainte-Marie (electoral district)\n\nSainte-Marie and St. Mary were federal electoral districts in Quebec, Canada, that were represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1896 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1892 as \"St. Mary\" riding from parts of Montreal East riding. It consisted of St. Mary's ward in the city of Montreal. In 1914, it was expanded to include papineau ward. After 1924, it was defined as being a part of the city of Montreal circumscribed by a number of streets.\n\nIn 1952, St. Mary riding was abolished, and replaced by \"Sainte-Marie\" riding. In 1976, this riding was abolished when it was redistributed into Hochelaga, Laurier and Saint-Henri ridings.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1980, Hochelaga riding was known as \"Sainte-Marie\", and from 1981 to 1987, it was known as \"Montreal—Sainte-Marie\". See that article for more information.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842725", "title": "Brant—Haldimand", "text": "Brant—Haldimand\n\nBrant—Haldimand was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968, and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1987 to 1999.\n\nThe riding was created in 1952 from parts of Brant—Wentworth and Haldimand.\n\nIt consisted of the counties of Haldimand and Brant. The townships of Burford and Oakland in Brant were excluded, along with the part of the township of Brantford lying south and west of Grand River, the part of the township of Brantford not included in the electoral district of Brantford, and the city of Brantford.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed between Brant, Norfolk—Haldimand and Welland ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842727", "title": "Hastings—Frontenac", "text": "Hastings—Frontenac\n\nHastings—Frontenac was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968, and from 1979 to 1980.\n\nThis riding was originally created in 1952 from parts of Frontenac—Addington and Hastings—Peterborough ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\n(a) the county of Lennox and Addington (excluding the townships of Ernestown, Fredericksburg North and Fredericksburg South, Richmond, Adolphustown, and Amherst Island);\n\n(b) the county of Frontenac (excluding the city of Kingston and the townships of Kingston, Storrington, Pittsburgh, Howe Island, Wolfe Island (including Simcoe Island, Horse Shoe Island and Mud Island)); and\n\n(c) the part of county of Peterborough lying east of and including the townships of Anstruther, Burleigh, Dummer and Asphodel; and\n\n(d) the part of county of Hastings lying north of and including the townships of Rawdon, Huntingdon, Madoc and Elzevir.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed between Frontenac—Lennox and Addington, Hastings, Peterborough and Victoria—Haliburton ridings.\n\nHastings—Frontenac was re-created in 1976 from parts of Frontenac—Lennox and Addington, Hastings, and Victoria—Haliburton ridings.\n\nThe new riding consisted of:\n\n(a) the part of the County of Frontenac including and lying north of the Townships of Portland, Loughborough, Storrington and Pittsburg, but excluding the southwest part of the Township of Pittsburg;\n\n(b) the part of the County of Hastings including and lying north of the Townships of Marmora, Madoc and Elzevir; and\n\n(c) the County of Lennox and Addington, but excluding the Township of Armherst Island.\n\nThe electoral district changed name in 1981 to Hastings—Frontenac—Lennox and Addington.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nOn Mr. Smith's death, 17 March 1959:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842735", "title": "Wellington—Huron", "text": "Wellington—Huron\n\nWellington—Huron was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1952 from parts of Huron North, Wellington North and Wellington South ridings.\n\nWellington—Huron consisted of the townships of Arthur, Garafraxa West, Maryborough, Minto, Nichol, Peel and West Luther, including the towns of Mount Forest and Palmerston in the county of Wellington, and the townships of Howick, Turnberry, and the town of Wingham the county of Huron.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed between Huron and Wellington—Grey ridings.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842739", "title": "York—Humber", "text": "York—Humber\n\nYork—Humber was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1952 from parts of York South riding.\n\nYork—Humber consisted of the towns of Mimico and Weston (excluding the Ellis Court Apartments), the village of Swansea, and parts of the townships of Etobicoke and York in what was later known as Metropolitan Toronto.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1966 when it was re-distributed between Etobicoke, High Park, Lakeshore, York South and York West ridings.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842741", "title": "York—Scarborough", "text": "York—Scarborough\n\nYork—Scarborough was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1988. It was located in the province of Ontario. In the twelve general elections held during York—Scarborough's existence, the party that won here also won the election.\n\nInitially, it included the southern part of York County, Ontario, being now the northern part of Scarborough and parts of North York and Markham. The riding was created in 1952 from parts of York East and York North ridings.\n\nIn 1966, it was redefined to lie entirely within the Municipality of Metropolitan Toronto and consisted of the eastern part of the Borough of North York and the north-western part of the Borough of Scarborough. In 1976 (with effect from the 1979 general election), the riding was shifted to the east, taking in only the easternmost part of North York, and all of northern Scarborough. The electoral district was abolished in 1987 (with effect from the 1988 general election) when it was redistributed between Don Valley North, Scarborough—Agincourt and Scarborough—Rouge River ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842745", "title": "Saint-Jacques (electoral district)", "text": "Saint-Jacques (electoral district)\n\nSaint-Jacques was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1988.\n\nThere were two separate ridings named \"Saint-Jacques\". The first was created in 1952 from Cartier and St. James ridings. It was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Laurier and Saint-Henri ridings.\n\nA second \"Saint-Jacques\" riding was created in 1977 when Saint-Henri was renamed Saint-Jacques. It was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Laurier—Sainte-Marie, Saint-Henri—Westmount and Verdun—Saint-Paul ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842746", "title": "Horopter", "text": "Horopter\n\nIn studies of binocular vision the horopter is the locus of points in space that have the same disparity as fixation. This can be defined theoretically as the points in space which project on corresponding points in the two retinas, that is, on anatomically identical points. The horopter can be measured empirically in which it is defined using some criterion.\n\nThe concept of horopter can then be extended as a geometrical locus of points in space where a specific condition is met:\n\n\nAs other quantities that describe the functional principles of the visual system, it is possible to provide a theoretical description of the phenomenon. The measurement with psycho-physical experiments usually provide an empirical definition that slightly deviates from the theoretical one. The underlying theory is that this deviation represents an adaptation of the visual system to the regularities that can be encountered in natural environments.\n\nThe horopter as a special set of points of single vision was first mentioned in the eleventh century by Ibn al-Haytham, known to the west as \"Alhazen\". He built on the binocular vision work of Ptolemy and discovered that objects lying on a horizontal line passing through the fixation point resulted in single images, while objects a reasonable distance from this line resulted in double images. Thus Alhazen noticed the importance of some points in the visual field but did not work out the exact shape of the horopter and used singleness of vision as a criterion.\nThe term \"horopter\" was introduced by Franciscus Aguilonius in the second of his six books in optics in 1613. In 1818, Gerhard Vieth argued from Euclidean geometry that the horopter must be a circle passing through the fixation-point and the nodal point of the two eyes. A few years later Johannes Müller made a similar conclusion for the horizontal plane containing the fixation point, although he did expect the horopter to be a surface in space (i.e., not restricted to the horizontal plane). The theoretical/geometrical horopter in the horizontal plane became known as the \"Vieth-Müller circle\". However, see the next section \"Theoretical horopter\" for the claim that this has been the case of a \"mistaken identity\" for about 200 years.\n\nIn 1838, Charles Wheatstone invented the stereoscope, allowing him to explore the empirical horopter. \nHe found that there were many points in space that yielded single vision; this is very different from the theoretical horopter, and subsequent authors have similarly found that the empirical horopter deviates from the form expected on the basis of simple geometry.\nRecently, plausible explanation has been provided to this deviation, showing that the empirical horopter is adapted to the statistics of retinal disparities normally experienced in natural environments. In this way, the visual system is able to optimize its resources to the stimuli that are more likely to be experienced.\n\nLater Hermann von Helmholtz and Ewald Hering worked out the exact shape of the horopter almost at the same time. Their descriptions identified two components for the horopter for symmetrical fixation closer than infinity. The first is in the plane which contains the fixation point (wherever it is) and the two nodal points of the eye. The geometric locus of horopteric points in this plane takes the form of the arc of a circle (the Vieth-Müller circle) going from one nodal point to the other in space, passing through the fixation point. The second component is a line (the Prévost–Burckhardt line) which is perpendicular to this arc in the median plane, cutting it at the point midway between the two eyes (which may, or may not, be the fixation point). This horopter geometry of a circle in the fixation plane and a perpendicular line remains approximately fixed relative to the eye centers as long as the eyes are fixating somewhere on these two lines. When the eyes are fixated anywhere off these two lines, the theoretical horopter takes the form of a twisted cubic passing through the fixation point and asymptoting to the two lines at their extremes. (Under no conditions does the horopter become either a cylinder through the Vieth-Müller circle or a torus centered on the nodal points of the two eyes, as is often popularly assumed.) If the eyes are fixating anywhere at infinity, the Vieth-Müller circle has infinite radius and the horopter becomes the two-dimensional plane through the two straight horopter lines.\n\nIn detail, the identification of the theoretical/geometrical horopter with the Vieth-Müller circle is only an approximation. It was pointed out in Gulick and Lawson (1976) that Müller's anatomical approximation that the nodal point and eye rotation center are coincident should be refined. Unfortunately, their attempt to correct this assumption was flawed, as demonstrated in Turski (2016). This analysis shows that, for a given fixation point, one has a slightly different horopter circle for each different choice of the nodal point’s location. Moreover, if one changes the fixation point along a given Vieth-Müller circle such that the vergence value remains constant, one obtains an infinite family of such horopters, to the extent that the nodal point deviates from the eye’s rotation center. These statements follow from the Central Angle Theorem and the fact that three non-collinear points give a unique circle. It can also be shown that, for fixations along a given Vieth-Müller circle, all the corresponding horopter circles intersect at the point of symmetric convergence. This result implies that each member of the infinite family of horopters is also composed of a circle in the fixation plane and a perpendicular straight line passing through the point of symmetric convergence (located on the circle) so long as the eyes are in primary or secondary position.\n\nWhen the eyes are in tertiary position away from the two basic horopter lines, the vertical disparities due to the differential magnification of the distance above or below the Vieth-Müller circle have to be taken into account, as was calculated by Helmholtz. In this case the horopter becomes a single-loop spiral passing through the fixation point and converging toward the vertical horopter at the top and bottom extremities and passing through the nodal point of the two eyes. This form was predicted by Helmholtz and subsequently confirmed by Solomons. In the general case that includes the fact that the eyes cyclorotate when viewing above or below the primary horopter circle, the theoretical horopter components of the circle and straight line rotate vertically around the axis of the nodal points of the eyes.\n\nAs Wheatstone (1838) observed, the empirical horopter, defined by singleness of vision, is much larger than the theoretical horopter. This was studied by P. L. Panum in 1858. He proposed that any point in one retina might yield singleness of vision with a circular region centred on the corresponding point in the other retina. This has become known as Panum's fusional area, or just Panum's area, although recently that has been taken to mean the area in the horizontal plane, around the Vieth-Müller circle, where any point appears single.\n\nThese early empirical investigations used the criterion of singleness of vision, or absence of diplopia to determine the horopter. Today the horopter is usually defined by the criterion of \"identical visual directions\" (similar in principle to the \"apparent motion horopter\", according that identical visual directions cause no apparent motion). Other criteria used over the years include the \"apparent fronto-parallel plane horopter\", the \"equi-distance horopter\", the \"drop-test horopter\" or the \"plumb-line horopter\". Although these various horopters are measured using different techniques and have different theoretical motivations, the shape of the horopter remains identical regardless of the criterion used for its determination.\n\nConsistently, the shape of the empirical horopter have been found to deviate from the geometrical horopter. For the horizontal horopter this is called the Hering-Hillebrand deviation. The empirical horopter is flatter than predicted from geometry at short fixation distances and becomes convex for farther fixation distances. Moreover the vertical horopter have been consistently found to have a backward tilt of about 2 degrees relative to its predicted orientation (perpendicular to the fixation plane). The theory underlying these deviations is that the binocular visual system is adapted to the regularities that can be encountered in natural environments.\n\nIn computer vision, the horopter is defined as the curve of points in 3D space having identical coordinates projections with respect to two cameras with the same intrinsic parameters. It is given generally by a twisted cubic, i.e., a curve of the form \"x\" = \"x\"(θ), \"y\" = \"y\"(θ), \"z\" = \"z\"(θ) where \"x\"(θ), \"y\"(θ), \"z\"(θ) are three independent third-degree polynomials. In some degenerate configurations, the horopter reduces to a line plus a circle.\n"}
{"id": "1842752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842752", "title": "Humboldt—Melfort", "text": "Humboldt—Melfort\n\nHumboldt—Melfort (also known as Humboldt—Melfort—Tisdale) was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1952 to 1968. This riding was created in 1952 from parts of Humboldt, Melfort and Yorkton ridings. In 1961, the riding was renamed \"Humboldt—Melfort—Tisdale\".\n\nThe riding was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Mackenzie, Prince Albert, Regina East, Regina—Lake Centre and Saskatoon—Humboldt ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842754", "title": "Mackenzie (electoral district)", "text": "Mackenzie (electoral district)\n\nMackenzie was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1904 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1903, when Saskatchewan was still a part of the Northwest Territories. In 1905, when Saskatchewan was created, the district was retained in the province.\n\nThe riding was abolished in 1996, and parts of it were merged into the districts of Blackstrap, Churchill River, Prince Albert, Qu'Appelle, Regina—Lumsden—Lake Centre, Saskatoon—Humboldt and Yorkton—Melville.\n\nMackenzie elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842756", "title": "Moose Jaw—Lake Centre", "text": "Moose Jaw—Lake Centre\n\nMoose Jaw—Lake Centre was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968 and from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1953 from parts of Lake Centre, Moose Jaw, Qu'Appelle, and Rosthern ridings\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Moose Jaw, Regina East and Regina—Lake Centre ridings.\n\nIt was re-created in 1987 from parts of Assiniboia, Humboldt—Lake Centre and Moose Jaw ridings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Blackstrap, Cypress Hills—Grasslands, Palliser and Regina—Arm River ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842760", "title": "See You on the Other Side (Korn album)", "text": "See You on the Other Side (Korn album)\n\nSee You on the Other Side is the seventh studio album by American nu metal band Korn. It was released on December 6, 2005, by Virgin Records. It is their first album as a quartet after the departure of long-time guitarist Brian \"Head\" Welch and the last album with original drummer David Silveria before he had departed from the band in December 2006. The album was first certified gold in the United States on January 12, 2006; a subsequent platinum record certification was awarded on March 16, 2006. The album is best known for the involvement of renowned production team 'The Matrix', best known for coproduction on works by Avril Lavigne, Britney Spears, and Shakira, who managed to give Korn's music a different sound.\nThe album features layout design and an original painting by the American surrealist/ gothic painter David Stoupakis on the cover. Eleven more paintings by the artist appear as additional artwork on the deluxe special edition.\n\nAfter completing their record deal with Sony BMG in 2004, Korn partnered with EMI Records and signed to Virgin Records. As part of this innovative arrangement, Virgin paid Korn $25 million in exchange for a share in the profits of \"See You on the Other Side\" and the band's next album, including tours and merchandising. Virgin also received a 30 percent stake in the band's licensing, ticket sales and other revenue sources. The album was recorded in Jonathan Davis' home studio which was used for the previous album, \"Take a Look in the Mirror\", as well as the \"Queen of the Damned\" soundtrack and score. Davis stated \"We went through a lot of drama with Head leaving and getting off our label and making the album by ourselves.\" Regarding Brian \"Head\" Welch's departure, James \"Munky\" Shaffer recalled \"There was kind of a moment where we didn't know what we were going to do and how we were going to continue. We kind of decided, 'OK, we can just sit back and we can put out a greatest hits album and end this or we can use this opportunity and instead of looking at it as a loss, reinvent what we do.'\"\n\nThe lead single, \"Twisted Transistor\", premiered on KDGE 102.1 FM The Edge in Dallas-Fort Worth, TX, and was officially released to radio on September 27, 2005. Brent Decker e-mailed the disc jockey of the night, Ayo, with a request to play the rumored single. The band also did a \"See You on the Other Side\" world tour to heavily promote the album, which included a special performance of \"Here to Stay\" on a plane from London to New York City.\nThe album shows Korn retaining their nu metal/rap metal style, but also combining elements of genres such as industrial, gothic rock, new wave, electronic/electronica, and funk.\n\nWith regards to the album's musical direction, Jonathan Davis commented,\n\nOn average, \"See You on the Other Side\" generally received much warmer critical reception than the previous studio album, \"Take a Look in the Mirror\", scoring a Metacritic average of 64. Reviewers appreciated the band's desire to experiment and noted that the album combined well their signature sound with the freshness that producers The Matrix and Atticus Ross added to the band's sound.\n\n\"See You on the Other Side\" sold more than 220,000 copies in its first week, debuting and peaking at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200. The album managed to stay in the top half of the chart for thirty-four consecutive weeks. It has accumulated 1,451,458 copies sold in the United States according to Nielsen SoundScan. The album was ranked second in Ultimate Guitar Archive's Top 10 albums of 2005 poll.\n\nThis album has been released with the Copy Control protection system in some regions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "1842764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842764", "title": "Battle River—Camrose", "text": "Battle River—Camrose\n\nBattle River—Camrose was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Battle River, and Camrose ridings. It was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Battle River, Vegreville and Wetaskiwin ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842769", "title": "Calgary North", "text": "Calgary North\n\nCalgary North was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of the Bow River, Calgary West and East Calgary ridings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Calgary—Nose Hill.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842774", "title": "Calgary South", "text": "Calgary South\n\nCalgary South was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Bow River, Calgary West and East Calgary ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Calgary Southeast, Calgary Southwest and Calgary West ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842776", "title": "Mackenzie River (electoral district)", "text": "Mackenzie River (electoral district)\n\nMackenzie River was a federal electoral district in Northwest Territories, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1963.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 when Yukon—Mackenzie River riding was split into two. The parts within the Northwest Territories became Mackenzie River riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1962 when it was merged into Northwest Territories riding.\n\nIt consisted the Provisional District of Mackenzie bounded on the west by the Yukon Territory; on the south by the parallel of the sixtieth degree of north latitude; on the east by the second meridian in the system of Dominion Land surveys, and on the north by the continental shore of the Arctic Ocean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842778", "title": "Thomas Cooper (American politician, born 1759)", "text": "Thomas Cooper (American politician, born 1759)\n\nThomas Cooper (October 22, 1759 – May 11, 1839) was an Anglo-American economist, college president and political philosopher. Cooper was described by Thomas Jefferson as \"one of the ablest men in America\" and by John Adams as \"a learned ingenious scientific and talented madcap.\" Dumas Malone stated that \"modern scientific progress would have been impossible without the freedom of the mind which he championed throughout life.\" His ideas were taken very seriously in his own time: there were substantial reviews of his writings, and some late eighteenth-century critics of materialism directed their arguments against Cooper, rather than against the better-known Joseph Priestley.\n\nCooper was born in Westminster, England. He attended University College, Oxford, but did not graduate, supposedly refusing the religious test. He then studied law at the Inner Temple, medicine and the natural sciences. He travelled the northern court circuit for a few years; it is unclear in the records whether he practised as a qualified barrister. At the same period he went into the calico printing business at Raikes near Bolton, Lancashire.\n\nCooper took on a prominent role in the reforming politics of the time. In early 1790 he took part in the campaign by Dissenters for greater religious tolerance. His approach was considered too extreme by some, and he shed much moderate support after a meeting in Cheshire. Edmund Burke mentioned Cooper in the House of Commons in March of that year. In October 1790 the Manchester Constitutional Society was set up, with Cooper, author of \"Letters on the Slave Trade\" (1787), and other members such as Thomas Walker, noted as radicals and abolitionists. The Constitutional Society had members in common with the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society. But in July 1791 the Priestley Riots took place, driving Joseph Priestley from his home. The whole radical group resigned \"en masse\", in 1791, when the Literary and Philosophical Society refused to send Priestley a message of sympathy.\n\nHe was elected a Member of the American Philosophical Society in 1802.\n\nIn the rapid developments stemming from the French Revolution, Cooper was sent to Paris in 1792 with James Watt Jr., by the Constitutional Society of Manchester. They travelled with an introduction from Walker to political circles through Jérôme Pétion de Villeneuve, and another to a man of science, Antoine Lavoisier, from Priestley. Cooper was for some purposes a representative of the British democratic clubs to those of France, but the situation on both sides of the Channel was by now becoming complex. The Manchester group favoured the Jacobins in the emerging split with the Girondins. Edmund Burke again censured Cooper in the House of Commons, and Cooper replied with a vehement pamphlet.\n\nCooper came to represent the Society for Constitutional Information (SCI) alone, in dealings with the Jacobins. The Whig Friends of the People took steps to exclude him, out of concerns that its membership should not overlap with that of the more radical SCI: Burke had called the Manchester reformist group \"some of the worst men in the kingdom\" to score a political point off Charles Grey, who had been instrumental in setting up the Friends in April 1792. While in France Cooper learned the process of obtaining chlorine from sea salt. He tried to apply this knowledge on his return to England to bleaching of textiles, but was unsuccessful.\n\nBy 1793, Cooper became disillusioned with the violent course of events in France. Both he and Watt later represented themselves as always favouring moderate elements (which is doubted now by scholars). But Cooper was in some danger of prosecution at home because of his views. He ruled out France as a destination, and made a preliminary journey to the United States in early 1794.\n\nCooper came to a decision, and emigrated to America with Joseph Priestley later in 1794. He began the practice of law in Northumberland County, Pennsylvania. Like his friend Priestley, who was then also living in Northumberland, he sympathized with the Jeffersonian Republicans, and took part in the agitation against the Alien and Sedition Acts.\n\nOn 26 October 1799, the Reading, Pennsylvania \"Advertiser\" published a strong attack he wrote against President John Adams. This led to his being tried for libel under the Sedition Act, and he was sentenced to six months' imprisonment, with a fine of $400. It was during this trial that Cooper stated that he knew the king of England could do no wrong, \"but I did not know till now that the President of the United States had the same attribute.\"\n\nIn 1806, Cooper was appointed a land commissioner and succeeded in overcoming the difficulties with the Connecticut claimants in Luzerne county. That year he was also appointed president-judge of the Fourth District of Pennsylvania in 1806. In 1811, having become obnoxious to the members of his own party, he was removed from his position as judge on a charge of arbitrary conduct.\n\nLike Priestley, Cooper was very highly esteemed by Thomas Jefferson, who secured for him the appointment as first professor of natural science and law in the University of Virginia — a position which Cooper was forced to resign under the fierce attack made on him by the Virginia clergy. He later served as the chair of chemistry at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania (1811–1814) and at the University of Pennsylvania (1818–1819).\n\nHe became a professor of chemistry at South Carolina College (now the University of South Carolina) in 1819. Later he would also provide instruction in political economics. In 1820, he became acting president of this institution and was president from 1821 until 1833, when he resigned owing to the opposition within the state to his liberal religious views. In December 1834, owing to continued opposition, he resigned his professorship. \nThough he became increasingly controversial during his tenure as president, he was very popular with his students. Most of them came to his defense in the years of 1831–33, when Cooper was frequently challenged by the state legislature. Although many students disagreed with Cooper's philosophies, they liked the man personally.\n\nUpon his arrival in America, Cooper had a positive outlook towards the country saying he preferred America because, \"There is little fault to find with the government of America, either in principle or in practice…we have no animosities about religion; it is a subject about which no questions are asked…the present irritation of men's minds in Great Britain, and the discordant state of society on political grounds is not known there. The government is the government of the people and for the people\". By 1831 his perspective had changed: \"In no other country is the wise toleration established by law, so complete as in this. But in no country whatever is a spirit of persecution for mere opinions, more prevalent than in the United States of America. It is a country most tolerant in theory, and most bigoted in practice\", not that this made him feel obliged to return to Mother England.\n\nHe was a born agitator. In 1832, he had been formally tried for infidelity. Before his college classes, in public lectures, and in numerous pamphlets, he constantly preached the doctrine of free trade, and tried to show that the protective system was especially burdensome to the South. His remedy was state action. Each state, he contended, was a sovereign power and was in duty bound to protest against the tyrannical acts of the Federal government.\n\nCooper was a relentless campaigner for political freedom. He believed freedom of speech was the most fundamental of those freedoms and that America had major improvements to make in this area: \"the value of free discussion is not yet appreciated as it ought to be in these United States\". He blamed the clergy in particular for this state of affairs: \"the clergy of this country...are united in persecuting every man who calls in question any of their metaphysical opinions, or who hints at their views of ambition and aggrandizement\". Not surprisingly, the evangelical Charles Colcock Jones, who was a missionary to slaves as well as a professor at Columbia Theological Seminary, was unimpressed with Cooper. Jones called him \"the Father\" of the \"infidel Party\" in South Carolina. \"That old man,\" he wrote, \"has done this state more evil than fifty years can remove. He has a world of iniquity to answer for in poisoning the State with his infidel principles.\"\n\nCooper was at the center of the nullification movement and taught South Carolina about the dangers of consolidation. In 1827, as the tariff controversy grew, Cooper publicly questioned the benefit of the Union. In a speech, he described the South as the perennial loser in an \"unequal alliance.\" Cooper predicted that South Carolina would in the near future \"be compelled to calculate the value of our union.\" The idea that the South should withdraw \"received its first extensive advertising as a result of that speech.\"\n\nHe exercised considerable influence in preparing the people of South Carolina for nullification and secession; in fact he preceded Calhoun in advocating a practical application of the state sovereignty principle. By nature of being an adamant advocate of states' rights was in favor of Interposition. Cooper was one of the most vocal supporters of secession. Cooper's political views made him enemies, and his religious views made even more.\n\nHe supported the institution of slavery, although he had strenuously opposed the slave trade. In the mid to late 1780s Cooper fought passionately against \"that infamous and impolitic traffic\". He wrote that \"negroes are men; susceptible of the same cultivation with ourselves\", claimed that \"as Englishmen, the blood of the murdered African is upon us, and upon our children, and in some day of retribution he will feel it, who will not assist to wash off the stain\". But in America Cooper accepted slavery itself, as he doubted that \"in South Carolina or Georgia...the rich lands could be cultivated without slave labour\".\n\nIn addition to Thomas Jefferson, he was friends with James Madison and several Governors of South Carolina. As a philosopher he was a follower of David Hartley, Erasmus Darwin, Priestley, and François-Joseph-Victor Broussais; he was a physiological materialist, and a severe critic of Scottish metaphysics.\n\nThe last years of his life were spent in preparing an edition of the Statutes at Large of the state, which was completed by David James McCord (1797–1855) and published in ten volumes (1836–1841). Cooper died in Columbia on the 11th of May 1839. He is interred in the churchyard at Trinity Episcopal Church in Columbia, South Carolina.\n\n\nThe University of South Carolina has a library named for Cooper and bestows an achievement award presented by the University's Thomas Cooper Society: the Thomas Cooper Medal for Distinction in the Arts and Sciences.\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "1842787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842787", "title": "Burnaby—Coquitlam", "text": "Burnaby—Coquitlam\n\nBurnaby—Coquitlam was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Burnaby—Richmond riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Burnaby—Seymour, Fraser Valley West and New Westminster ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842788", "title": "Esquimalt—Saanich", "text": "Esquimalt—Saanich\n\nEsquimalt—Saanich was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Nanaimo riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Esquimalt—Juan de Fuca and Saanich—Gulf Islands ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the southern part of Vancouver Island and off-shore islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842790", "title": "Okanagan Boundary", "text": "Okanagan Boundary\n\nOkanagan Boundary was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Kamloops and Yale ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Fraser Valley East, Kootenay West, Okanagan North and Okanagan—Similkameen ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842792", "title": "Okanagan—Revelstoke", "text": "Okanagan—Revelstoke\n\nOkanagan—Revelstoke was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1953 to 1968.\n\nThis riding was created in 1952 from parts of Kamloops and Yale ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1966 when it was redistributed into Kootenay West, Okanagan Boundary and Okanagan—Kootenay ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842793", "title": "Nanyang Siang Pau", "text": "Nanyang Siang Pau\n\nNanyang Siang Pau or Nanyang Business Daily () was founded by philanthropist-entrepreneur Tan Kah Kee on 6 September 1923 in Singapore, currently published in Malaysia. \"Nanyang Siang Pau\" is one of oldest Chinese-language newspapers in the country, with only \"Kwong Wah Yit Poh\" having been published longer. It has been published continuously except for four months in 1923 and 1924 and during the World War II between 1942 and 1945, before publication resumed on 8 September 1945.\n\nOriginally started in Singapore, the newspaper first ventured into Kuala Lumpur in 1958, but the newspaper remains printed in Singapore. In 1962, the headquarters of \"Nanyang Siang Pau\" moved to Kuala Lumpur, first with Jalan Travers, Brickfields and followed by Jalan Bangsar in 1972.\n\nThe Singapore edition of the paper has merged with \"Sin Chew Jit Poh\" on March 16, 1983 to form the current \"Lianhe Zaobao\", and has since ceased to exist.\n\nIn August 1932, the \"Nanyang Daily\" was separated from Tan's company. The newspaper company name was changed to Nanyang Press in 1975. In 1993, Nanyang Press took over the management of another Chinese daily, \"China Press\" and a year later, its office moved to Section 7, Petaling Jaya, its current location.\n\nNanyang had its initial public offering (IPO) in 1989, the first Chinese daily to be listed in Bursa Malaysia. Until the late 1980s, it was Malaysia's highest-selling Chinese newspaper, before being overtaken by \"Sin Chew Daily\", which is also the highest-selling Chinese newspaper outside of Hong Kong, Mainland China and Taiwan.\n\nOn 28 May 2001, Huaren Holdings, the investment arm of the political party MCA, bought over Nanyang Press, in a controversial transaction that led to mass boycotts of the newspaper by the Chinese community.\n\nBy June 2005, Nanyang has raised more than RM240 million for Chinese education in Malaysia, through its Top Ten charity concerts in conjunction with Carlsberg Malaysia.\n\nin 2006, Huaren Holdings disposed 21.02% of its share to Ezywood Options Sdn Bhd, a company owned by Tan Sri Tiong Hiew King. Huaren's remaining stake were exchanged for a share in Media Chinese International Ltd (MCIL) in 2008, but then disposed of its entire holding in MCIL in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842795", "title": "Jak X: Combat Racing", "text": "Jak X: Combat Racing\n\nJak X: Combat Racing (known simply as Jak X in Europe and Australia) is a vehicular combat video game developed by Naughty Dog and published by Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE). First released for the PlayStation 2 console on October 18, 2005, it is the fourth installment in the \"Jak and Daxter series\". The plot follows protagonist Jak and his allies who, after having been poisoned, must partake in a championship of the fictional sport of \"combat racing\" in an effort to obtain an antidote.\n\nThe gameplay differs from previous installments in the series, focusing on arcade racing rather than action-adventure gameplay. However, the driving mechanics of the game were modeled after the previous entry in the series, \"Jak 3\". Furthermore, \"Combat Racing\" was the first \"Jak and Daxter\" game to feature a multiplayer mode, with the second being \"Daxter\". In 2017, the game was re-released for the PlayStation 4, alongside \"\", \"Jak II\", and \"Jak 3\".\n\nIn \"Combat Racing\", the player controls characters from the \"Jak and Daxter\" series, all of which race in customizable dune buggy-style vehicles. The two main modes of play in the game are Adventure and Exhibition. Jak, the main character of the series, is the only playable character in the Adventure mode, and must participate in a series of Eco Cup Championships in the game's story to obtain an antidote to a poison he and his comrades have consumed. Jak can also take part in a variety of Events in the Championships as to earn Medal Points and advance through the ranks. The main event of the game is the Circuit Race, in which Jak must finish a set of laps in a course while avoiding the wrath of the other racers. The player can destroy these racers as well by picking up Yellow and Red Eco weapons, with Yellow Eco acting as an offensive weapon made to attack and destroy opponents, and Red Eco acting as a defensive weapon made to protect the player from incoming attacks. Green and Blue Eco can also be picked up, acting as health recovery and turbo respectively. Causing and taking damage causes a Dark Eco meter to fill up which, once full, causes weapons to become more potent versions of themselves. Save data from the first three \"Jak and Daxter\" games, \"Daxter\" and \"\" unlock several drivers for the game, including Ratchet from \"Ratchet & Clank\". For the PlayStation 4 port, the save data of the PS4 ports of the first three \"Jak and Daxter\" games, \"\" and \"Ratchet & Clank (2016)\" are required to unlock the content.\n\nA year after the Dark Maker ship has been destroyed, Haven City has been steadily rebuilt after Errol's defeat, and has grown into a peaceful utopia. Kras City, a dangerous dystopian city full of ruthless mobsters, is also home to a popular sport known as \"Combat Racing\". Jak, Daxter, Ashelin, Samos, Keira and Torn are invited to the reading of Krew's (one of the villains of \"Jak II\") last will, where they meet Krew's daughter, Rayn. After offering a toast, Krew reveals in a recording that he always wanted to win the Combat Racing Championship and demands that everyone present drive for him, revealing that the wine they toasted with was poisoned with minute doses of a slow acting poison known as Black Shade. Krew gives them an ultimatum: win the next Kras City Championship as his team and receive the antidote when they win, or die. Divided into four cups, Jak and his friends must race and win each round of the race to gain entrance to the championship.\n\nDuring the gang's racing, Keira acts as their primary mechanic, eventually building faster new vehicles to aid Jak in his races. However, her true wish is to race alongside her friends but Samos forbids it due to the dangerous nature of the competition. Sig also appears to assist the crew, whereas Kleiver appears to challenge Jak with a friendly rivalry. Pecker manages to become a co-announcer working with T.V. personality and star GT Blitz. He also works as an investigative reporter for the shady goings-on in the syndicated racing event.\n\nThe main antagonists are members of a rival crime family to Krew's, led by the mysterious and unidentified boss, Mizo. Mizo's top henchmen, Cutter, Edje, and Shiv are Jak's main competition, but due to their failure to defeat Jak, Mizo's #2, Razer, a famous racer, comes back out of retirement. Finally another competitor enters for Mizo, an ex-Krimzon Guard robot known as UR-86. During the continuing competitions, stories of Blitz's father enter the mix as his father was a legendary racer for the Kras City Grand Championship, while Rayn continues to search through her father's video diaries searching for more information on Mizo and any information that may assist the team in defeating him. Animosity grows between Mizo's racers and Rayn and Jak and the gang as Jak continues to win races making Mizo more and more desperate.\nAs the final race approaches, GT Blitz enters as a mystery racer for Mizo's team. Keira finally jumps into the race as well. Jak completes and wins the Kras City Grand Championship. Blitz angrily storms over to Rayn claiming she cheated before revealing himself to be Mizo. Mizo then steals the antidote and drives off with Jak in pursuit. Jak manages to damage Mizo's car enough that he ends up in a fiery crash. As Jak retrieves the antidote, Mizo mentions his father's \"sick\" love of racing and how his father's neglect to his family in the name of the sport caused his family to strive to own all of it, to the point that Mizo murdered his father. As Jak walks away, Mizo takes a shot at Jak by noting his habit of \"Leaving people to die,\" referencing when Jak left Krew to die in \"Jak II\" and left a deceased Damas behind in \"Jak 3\". Jak responds with \"You get used to it,\" before Mizo's car explodes, killing him.\n\nJak and the team celebrate with drinks at a bar where Samos acknowledges Keira's good driving indicating that he has accepted that she has grown up. Rayn bids the team farewell, but leaves a figment of Krew's video diary which Daxter activates, presenting a hologram of Krew telling Rayn how to pour the wine to avoid being poisoned and outlining his plan for his family to become the top crime family in the region. This reveals Rayn to be even more rotten and manipulative than her father, and shows that she had been lying to and using the team the whole time. Rayn drives away calling her associates for a crime family meeting, claiming herself as the one in charge. She also tells her associates to spare Jak's team. Regardless, Jak and the team continue to celebrate, and Jak and Keira finally share a kiss at Daxter's encouragement to which he remarks \"Now that's what I call a photo finish!\"\n\n\"Jak X: Combat Racing\" received favorable reviews from critics, and currently holds a 77.01% approval rating on GameRankings based on 57 reviews and a score of 76 out of 100 on Metacritic. GameSpot gave the game 7.9/10 praising the game's graphics and online multiplayer system while criticizing the game's difficulty in certain modes. Eurogamer rated the title 7/10. They were impressed by the game's sensation of speed, the variety provided by the different modes and the online functionality but thought it suffered from the occasional difficulty spike and \"loose, floaty handling\" of the vehicles. IGN thought that the game was \"a nicely presented, well-rounded combat racer\" which benefited from a strong storyline and multiple play modes which made it good value. It was given an 8/10 overall score. It was later added to the Sony's Greatest Hits section.\n\nThe score of \"Combat Racing\" was primarily composed by Billy Howerdel, with assistance from Dean Menta, Danny Lohner, Eric Bass, Josh Freese, Atom Willard, Joey Castillo, Paz Lenchantin, Troy Van Leeuwen, and Wes Borland. Furthermore, two songs by Queens of the Stone Age are present in the game's opening, being \"A Song for the Dead\" and \"You Think I Ain't Worth a Dollar, But I Feel Like a Millionaire\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1842797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842797", "title": "Rooster Rock State Park", "text": "Rooster Rock State Park\n\nRooster Rock State Park is a state park located east of Corbett, in the U.S. state of Oregon. One of the features of the park is Rooster Rock, a column of basalt forming a natural obelisk, which stands near the south side of the Columbia River Gorge, in the lee of Crown Point. The park is administered by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department.\n\nThe monolith was noted by the explorers Lewis and Clark in their journal as their camping place on November 2, 1805. The name is phallic in origin, specifically, the column's original name was \"Cock Rock\". The Chinook word for the rock was \"iwash\", referring to penis. The name was later modified to Rooster Rock so as not to offend the public.\n\nThe eastern portion of the park is designated as a clothing-optional beach, the first officially designated clothing-optional beach in the U.S. The only other clothing-optional beach in the state, after Glassbar Island's closing, is Collins Beach, on Sauvie Island in the Columbia River, north of Portland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842799", "title": "Experimental philosophy", "text": "Experimental philosophy\n\nExperimental philosophy is an emerging field of philosophical inquiry that makes use of empirical data—often gathered through surveys which probe the intuitions of ordinary people—in order to inform research on philosophical questions. This use of empirical data is widely seen as opposed to a philosophical methodology that relies mainly on a priori justification, sometimes called \"armchair\" philosophy, by experimental philosophers.\nExperimental philosophy initially began by focusing on philosophical questions related to intentional action, the putative conflict between free will and determinism, and causal vs. descriptive theories of linguistic reference. However, experimental philosophy has continued to expand to new areas of research.\n\nDisagreement about what experimental philosophy can accomplish is widespread. One claim is that the empirical data gathered by experimental philosophers can have an indirect effect on philosophical questions by allowing for a better understanding of the underlying psychological processes which lead to philosophical intuitions. Others claim that experimental philosophers are engaged in conceptual analysis, but taking advantage of the rigor of quantitative research to aid in that project. Finally, some work in experimental philosophy can be seen as undercutting the traditional methods and presuppositions of analytic philosophy. Several philosophers have offered criticisms of experimental philosophy.\n\nThough, in early modern philosophy, natural philosophy was sometimes referred to as \"experimental philosophy\", the field associated with the current sense of the term dates its origins around 2000 when a small number of students experimented with the idea of fusing philosophy to the experimental rigor of psychology.\n\nWhile the philosophical movement Experimental Philosophy began around 2000 (though perhaps the earliest example of the approach is reported by Hewson, 1994), the use of empirical methods in philosophy far predates the emergence of the recent academic field. Current experimental philosophers claim that the movement is actually a return to the methodology used by many ancient philosophers. Further, other philosophers like David Hume, René Descartes and John Locke are often held up as early models of philosophers who appealed to empirical methodology.\n\nThe questions of what consciousness is, and what conditions are necessary for conscious thought have been the topic of a long-standing philosophical debate. Experimental philosophers have approached this question by trying to get a better grasp on how exactly people ordinarily understand consciousness. For instance, work by Joshua Knobe and Jesse Prinz (2008) suggests that people may have two different ways of understanding minds generally, and Justin Sytsma and Edouard Machery (2009) have written about the proper methodology for studying folk intuitions about consciousness. Bryce Huebner, Michael Bruno, and Hagop Sarkissian (2010) have further argued that the way Westerners understand consciousness differs systematically from the way that East Asians understand consciousness, while Adam Arico (2010) has offered some evidence for thinking that ordinary ascriptions of consciousness are sensitive to framing effects (such as the presence or absence of contextual information). Some of this work has been featured in the Online Consciousness Conference.\n\nOther experimental philosophers have approached the topic of consciousness by trying to uncover the cognitive processes that guide everyday attributions of conscious states. Adam Arico, Brian Fiala, Rob Goldberg, and Shaun Nichols, for instance, propose a cognitive model of mental state attribution (the AGENCY model), whereby an entity's displaying certain relatively simple features (e.g., eyes, distinctive motions, interactive behavior) triggers a disposition to attribute conscious states to that entity. Additionally, Bryce Huebner has argued that ascriptions of mental states rely on two divergent strategies: one sensitive to considerations of an entity's behavior being goal-directed; the other sensitive to considerations of personhood.\n\nFollowing the work of Richard Nisbett, which showed that there were differences in a wide range of cognitive tasks between Westerners and East Asians, Jonathan Weinberg, Shaun Nichols and Stephen Stich (2001) compared epistemic intuitions of Western college students and East Asian college students. The students were presented with a number of cases, including some Gettier cases, and asked to judge whether a person in the case really knew some fact or merely believed it. They found that the East Asian subjects were more likely to judge that the subjects really knew. Later Edouard Machery, Ron Mallon, Nichols and Stich performed a similar experiment concerning intuitions about the reference of proper names, using cases from Saul Kripke's \"Naming and Necessity\" (1980). Again, they found significant cultural differences. Each group of authors argued that these cultural variances undermined the philosophical project of using intuitions to create theories of knowledge or reference. However, subsequent studies have consistently failed to replicate Weinberg et al.'s (2001) results for other Gettier cases Indeed, more recent studies have actually been providing evidence for the opposite hypothesis, that people from a variety of different cultures have surprisingly similar intuitions in these cases.\n\nOne area of philosophical inquiry has been concerned with whether or not a person can be morally responsible if their actions are entirely determined, e.g., by the laws of Newtonian physics. One side of the debate, the proponents of which are called ‘incompatibilists,’ argue that there is no way for people to be morally responsible for immoral acts if they could not have done otherwise. The other side of the debate argues instead that people can be morally responsible for their immoral actions even when they could not have done otherwise. People who hold this view are often referred to as ‘compatibilists.’ It was generally claimed that non-philosophers were naturally incompatibilist, that is they think that if you couldn't have done anything else, then you are not morally responsible for your action. Experimental philosophers have addressed this question by presenting people with hypothetical situations in which it is clear that a person's actions are completely determined. Then the person does something morally wrong, and people are asked if that person is morally responsible for what she or he did. Using this technique Nichols and Knobe (2007) found that \"people's responses to questions about moral responsibility can vary dramatically depending on the way in which the question is formulated\" and argue that \"people tend to have compatiblist intuitions when they think about the problem in a more concrete, emotional way but that they tend to have incompatiblist intuitions when they think about the problem in a more abstract, cognitive way\".\n\nRecent work in experimental epistemology has tested the apparently empirical claims of various epistemological views. For example, research on epistemic contextualism has proceeded by conducting experiments in which ordinary people are presented with vignettes that involve a knowledge ascription. Participants are then asked to report on the status of that knowledge ascription. The studies address contextualism by varying the context of the knowledge ascription (for example, how important it is that the agent in the vignette has accurate knowledge). Data gathered thus far show no support for what contextualism says about ordinary use of the term \"knows\". Other work in experimental epistemology includes, among other things, the examination of moral valence on knowledge attributions (the so-called \"epistemic side-effect effect\"), of the knowing-that / knowing-how distinction, and of laypeople's intuitions about lying, improper assertion, and insincerity.\n\nA prominent topic in experimental philosophy is intentional action. Work by Joshua Knobe has especially been influential. \"The Knobe Effect\", as it is often called, concerns an asymmetry in our judgments of whether an agent intentionally performed an action. Knobe (2003a) asked people to suppose that the CEO of a corporation is presented with a proposal that would, as a side effect, affect the environment. In one version of the scenario, the effect on the environment will be negative (it will \"harm\" it), while in another version the effect on the environment will be positive (it will \"help\" it). In both cases, the CEO opts to pursue the policy and the effect does occur (the environment is harmed or helped by the policy). However, the CEO only adopts the program because he wants to raise profits; he does not care about the effect that the action will have on the environment. Although all features of the scenarios are held constant—except for whether the side effect on the environment will be positive or negative—a majority of people judge that the CEO intentionally hurt the environment in the one case, but did not intentionally help it in the other. Knobe ultimately argues that the effect is a reflection of a feature of the speakers' underlying concept of intentional action: broadly moral considerations affect whether we judge that an action is performed intentionally. However, his exact views have changed in response to further research.\n\nResearch suggests that some fundamental philosophical intuitions are related to stable individual differences in personality. Although there are notable limits, philosophical intuitions and disagreements can be predicted by heritable Big Five personality traits and their facets. Extraverts are much more likely to be compatibilists, particularly if they are high in “warmth.” Extraverts show larger biases and different patterns of beliefs in the Knobe side effect cases. Neuroticism is related to susceptibility to manipulation-style free will arguments. Emotional Stability predicts who will attribute virtues to others. Openness to experience predicts non-objectivist moral intuitions. The link between personality and philosophical intuitions is independent of cognitive abilities, training, education, and expertise. Similar effects have also been found cross-culturally and in different languages including German and Spanish.\n\nBecause the Big Five Personality Traits are highly heritable, some have argued that many contemporary philosophical disputes are likely to persist through the generations. This may mean that some historical philosophical disputes are unlikely to be solved by purely rational, traditional philosophical methods and may require empirical data and experimental philosophy.\n\nIn 2006, J. David Velleman attacked experimental philosophy on the blog Left2Right, prompting a response from its defenders on Brian Leiter's blog.\n\nAntti Kauppinen (2007) has argued that intuitions will not reflect the content of folk concepts unless they are intuitions of competent concept users who reflect in ideal circumstances and whose judgments reflect the semantics of their concepts rather than pragmatic considerations. Experimental philosophers are aware of these concerns, and acknowledge that they constitute a criticism.\n\nTimothy Williamson (2008) has argued that we should not construe philosophical evidence as consisting of intuitions.\n\nOther experimental philosophers have noted that experimental philosophy often fails to meet basic standards of experimental social science. A great deal of the experiments fail to include enough female participants. Analysis of experimental data is often plagued by improper use of statistics, and reliance on data mining. Others have pointed out that many participants in experimental philosophy studies fail to comprehend the often abstract and complicated materials, and few studies report comprehension checks. Holtzman argues that a number of experimental philosophers are guilty of suppressing evidence. Yet, in lumping together all people's intuitions as those of the 'folk,' critics may be ignoring basic concerns identified by standpoint feminists.\n\nSome research in experimental philosophy is misleading because it examines averaged responses to surveys even though in almost all of the studies in experimental philosophy there have been substantial dissenting minorities. Ignoring individual differences may result in a distorted view of folk intuitions or concepts. This may lead to theoretical and strange fictions about everyday intuitions or concepts that experimental philosophy was designed to avoid akin to creating the fiction that the average human is not a man or a woman, but the average of a man and woman (e.g., the average person has one ovary and one testicle). This criticism is not unique to experimental philosophy but also applies to other sciences such as psychology and chemistry, although experimental philosophers may lack the training to recognize it.\n\nIn a series of studies published in 2012 and later peer-reviewed, Hamid Seyedsayamdost showed that some of the most famous results in experimental philosophy were not reproducible. This work gave rise to a focused attention on reproducibility in experimental philosophy. Several philosophers have carried out independent replications and to date all have confirmed Seyedsayamdost's results.\n\nSome of the areas covered in this debate include the instability and malleability of philosophical intuitions, determinism and moral responsibility, cultural diversity, gender differences and socioeconomic diversity. A large amount of research also focused on epistemology as Stephen Stich argued early on that findings reported by him and co-authors suggested that long practiced methods in philosophy had to be discarded, famously noting that in light of their findings a \"reasonable conclusion is that philosophy's 2400 year long infatuation with Plato's method has been a terrible mistake.\" Since publication of Seyedsayamdost's papers, Stich and collaborators have reversed their research direction on this question. The reason for these problems in experimental philosophy is not entirely clear, although a parallel with experimental psychology has been suggested.\n\nAt least one recent study, in which a team attempted to replicate various influential studies in experimental philosophy studies, found that roughly 70% of them could be replicated. The reasons for the discrepancy with Seyedsayamdost's original study are not yet known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842801", "title": "Academy of the Asturian Language", "text": "Academy of the Asturian Language\n\nThe Academia de la Llingua Asturiana or Academy of the Asturian Language (ALLA) is an Official Institution of the Government of the Principality of Asturias that promotes and regulates the Asturian language, a language of the Spanish autonomous community of Asturias. Among its principal objectives are investigating and normalizing the Asturian Language, developing a dictionary, promoting its use and education and awarding literary prizes. It has 21 full members, 19 foreign members and 15 honorary members, and its current (as of 2006) president is Ana María Cano González.\n\nALLA first notice appears in the 18th century, when Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos and Carlos González de Posada talk in their letters about the idea of creating it in 1791. Jovellanos' project, however, was aborted because of his imprisonment in Majorca. \n\nIn 1920s the Real Academia Asturiana de las Artes y las Letras (Royal Academy of Asturian Arts and Letters) was created by some intellectuals, including José Antonio García Peláez (Pin de Pría). It was divided in four sections and its principal objectives were to create an Asturian dictionary and grammar and to publish a magazine. Other sections were dedicated to promoting Asturian literature, theatre and music.\n\nBut it was from 1980 when the Asturian pre-autonomous government, the Consejo Regional, approved the creation of the ALLA, founded 15 December of the same year. Xosé Lluis García Arias was its first president from that moment until 2001 when Ana Cano took over from him.\n\nIn 1981 the \"Normes Ortográfiques y Conxugación de Verbos\" (\"Orthographic Norms and Verb Conjugation\"), the first academic work, was published. Other publications followed, such as the \"Gramática de la Llingua Asturiana\" (\"Asturian Language Grammar\") in 1998 and the \"Diccionariu de la Llingua Asturiana\" (\"Asturian Language Dictionary\") in 2000, also known as «DALLA».\n\nThe ALLA also publish: \nIt also works as an editorial house, with book collections, such as: \n\nIt also organized every year the \"Dia de les lletres asturianes\" (Day of Asturian Letters) since 1982, on the first Friday of May.\n\nAs of 2008, this is the complete list of members of the Academy of Asturian Language\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842802", "title": "Burnaby—Seymour", "text": "Burnaby—Seymour\n\nBurnaby—Seymour was a federal electoral district in the province of British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Burnaby—Coquitlam, Burnaby—Richmond and Coast—Capilano ridings. The riding originally consisted of the eastern part of North Vancouver plus areas of Burnaby north of the Grandview Highway and Edmonds Avenue, west of Sperling and north of Pandora Street. That is, North Vancouver east of Lynn Creek plus the Burnaby Heights, Capitol Hill, Brentwood and Deer Lake neighbourhoods of Burnaby.\n\nThe riding's first election in 1968, is notable for being a showdown between the former leader of the British Columbia Liberal Party, Ray Perrault, and federal New Democratic Party leader Tommy Douglas. Given that the North Shore portions of the riding were largely affluent and upper middle class in character and normally a Liberal bastion, Douglas' strong showing is not so surprising given the working-class and labour background of much of even the better-off parts of the riding in Burnaby.\n\nWhen this riding was redistributed in 1976, the resulting Burnaby riding consistently returned NDP candidates - this was Svend Robinson's longtime seat. North Vancouver—Burnaby returned a Progressive Conservative member (Chuck Cook) since its creation until it was abolished in 1987, as did its successor riding, the seat of North Vancouver until Reform Party member Ted White took over the seat on Cook's retirement.\n\nIn provincial politics, the equivalent area of North Vancouver was among the last holdouts of the provincial Liberal Party prior to it losing its support base to the Social Credit Party in the early 1980s. Jim Nielsen, who first unsuccessfully ran for the Progressive Conservative Party in Burnaby—Seymour in 1974 was subsequently elected in the 1975 provincial election as the MLA for Richmond. He was appointed as a cabinet minister and remained the MLA for Richmond until his resignation from provincial politics in 1986.\n\nThe riding was abolished in 1976. Successor ridings were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842804", "title": "Capilano (electoral district)", "text": "Capilano (electoral district)\n\nCapilano was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Coast—Capilano riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Capilano—Howe Sound and North Vancouver ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842807", "title": "Coast Chilcotin", "text": "Coast Chilcotin\n\nCoast Chilcotin was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of British Columbia.\n\nThe riding spanned the southern Coast Mountains and included the Central Coast through Queen Charlotte Strait and Johnstone Strait to the Sunshine Coast and Howe Sound, as well as the Chilcotin Plateau and from the Cariboo down to Howe Sound via Lillooet.\n\nCoast Chilcotin was created in 1966 and incorporated components of these other ridings:\n\n\nThe most significant components were those from Comox—Alberni (the Sunshine Coast), Cariboo and Coast—Capilano. Coast Chilcotin was first used in the Canadian federal election of 1968. It was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between:\n\n\nElections Canada webpage on Coast Chilcotin\n\n"}
{"id": "1842808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842808", "title": "Fraser Valley East", "text": "Fraser Valley East\n\nFraser Valley East was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Fraser Valley, Kamloops and Okanagan Boundary ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into the Fraser Valley riding.\n\nIt initially consisted of:\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842811", "title": "Fraser Valley West", "text": "Fraser Valley West\n\nFraser Valley West was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Burnaby—Coquitlam, Fraser Valley and New Westminster ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Langley—Matsqui riding.\n\nIt consisted initially of the western part of Matsqui District Municipality and including Crescent Island in the Central Fraser Valley Regional District and part of Surrey District Municipality.\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842813", "title": "Ready at Dawn", "text": "Ready at Dawn\n\nReady At Dawn Studios is an American video game developer located in Irvine, California and is composed of former members of Naughty Dog and Blizzard Entertainment. Formed in 2003, the company has primarily worked on games for the PlayStation Portable (PSP), most notably the Sony Computer Entertainment intellectual property \"God of War\" and \"Daxter\". Ready At Dawn also now has a satellite campus in Portland, Oregon to assist with future PC and console game development.\n\nReady At Dawn was founded in 2003 in Irvine, California, United States by Ru Weerasuriya, Andrea Pessino, Didier Malenfant, and former members of the Sony Computer Entertainment subsidiary Naughty Dog. They released their first game, \"Daxter\", in 2006. The company finished working on their second PSP game, \"\" as well as a Wii port of \"Ōkami\", with added motion controls. In June 2008 it was confirmed that the company had ceased developing games for the PSP, and that they had returned the relevant development kits to Sony. However, reports claim that the developer received new development kits after returning. Their next game was \"\", collaboratively developed with Sony's Santa Monica Studio for the PSP, with their new proprietary engine. Ready At Dawn released the \"\" for the PlayStation 3 on September 13, 2011. This collection is a port of their two \"God of War\" games for the PSP, \"Chains of Olympus\" and \"Ghost of Sparta\", to the PS3 with high-definition graphics, DualShock 3 support, Trophies, and Stereoscopic 3D, the first \"God of War\" release to support this feature.\n\nIn October 2009, Ready At Dawn began working on a new game engine. The Ready At Dawn Engine is said to be a wholly console-centric platform, integrated with a suite of third-party tools that require no additional license. These tools include 3D content editing, audio, user interface, and asset management systems. In July 2010, it was announced that Ready At Dawn had made thirteen employees redundant, citing difficulties in finding funding between projects behind the redundancies. In early 2012, the company began hiring for the development of a third-person action-adventure game for a \"next generation home console game system.\" Ready At Dawn and Sony later revealed the game at E3 2013 as \"\". In June 2015, Ru Weerasuriya, the founder of the company, announced that his position as CEO will be replaced by Paul Sams and will step down to become the company's president and chief creative officer. Ready At Dawn was in attendance at the large Chinese game publisher, Tencent’s UP Conference in April 2017, this was to announce a partnership to bring Ready At Dawn games into China. This partnership was headlined by bringing the game Deformers to China, although it was short lived due to the Deformers servers being shut down August 2018.\n\nIn July 2017, Ready At Dawn released Lone Echo and Echo Arena exclusively for the Oculus Rift. Echo Arena has since been included in the VR League, a VR esports segment of ESL, since Season 1. In November 2018, Ready At Dawn released Echo Combat, a first-person shooter DLC using the same zero-g movement found in Echo Arena, and announced that the company had opened a satellite studio in Portland, Oregon. It is to be believed that this new satellite studio is a part of the development of Ready At Dawn’s new project that was teased back in February 2018.\n\nIn July 2018, It was announced by CTO Andrea Pessino that everything new will be in Rust.\n\nWawro, A. (n.d.). Ready At Dawn joins list of devs working with Tencent to launch games into China. Retrieved from http://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/296511/Ready_At_Dawn_joins_list_of_devs_working_with_Tencent_to_launch_games_into_China.php\n\nKidwell, E. (n.d.). Ready at Dawn shuts down Deformers servers. Retrieved from https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/324451/Ready_at_Dawn_shuts_down_Deformers_servers.php\n"}
{"id": "1842814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842814", "title": "Kamloops—Cariboo", "text": "Kamloops—Cariboo\n\nKamloops—Cariboo was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Cariboo and Kamloops ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Cariboo—Chilcotin, Kamloops—Shuswap, Okanagan North, Okanagan—Similkameen and Prince George–Bulkley Valley ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842815", "title": "Londrina Esporte Clube", "text": "Londrina Esporte Clube\n\nLondrina Esporte Clube, usually shortened to Londrina, is a Brazilian football team from Londrina in the southern state of Paraná. The club was founded on April 5, 1956 and originally played at the Vitorino Gonçalves Dias stadium. Their current stadium, the Estádio do Café was built for Londrina's participation in the 1976 Brazilian league championship.\n\nThe most successful period for Londrina came between 1976 and 1982 when Londrina competed in Brazil's top league for 6 seasons. They were relegated for the 1980 season but claimed their only national league title by becoming champions of the second division. They have also won the state championship four times, as well as claiming 12 Campeonato do Interior Paranaense titles.\n\nIn 2013, Londrina finished in top place in the general classification of the Campeonato Paranaense. Although they did not qualify for the state championship final they won the Interior final and thereby qualified for a place in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série D, the fourth tier of the Brazilian league system and will also be placed in the draw for the First Round of the Copa do Brasil.\n\nLondrina was founded by a group of sportsmen who, after watching a friendly match between Nacional and Vasco da Gama in Rolândia, decided that they did not want to go to Rolândia to watch football. Instead, they founded a club in Londrina, their own city. The club, named Londrina Futebol e Regatas, was founded on April 5, 1956. They chose blue and white to be Londrina's colors.\n\nIn 1969, Londrina Futebol e Regatas merged with Paraná Esporte Clube, founded in 1942, forming Londrina Esporte Clube. Red and white, the colors for the city of Londrina, became the new club's colors. In 1972, Carlos Antônio Franchello returned to the presidency of the club, and restored blue and white as the club's colors.\n\nIn 2008, Londrina won the Copa Paraná for the first time, after beating Cianorte in the final. The club also competed in the same season's Recopa Sul-Brasileira. Londrina was eliminated in the Recopa Sul-Brasileira in the semifinals after a penalty shootout, by Brusque.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe club competed in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A in 1976, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1981, 1982, and in 1986. Londrina's best campaign was in 1977, when the club finished in the fourth place.\n\nLondrina's stadium is Estádio do Café, inaugurated in 1976, with a maximum capacity of 36,000 people. However, Vitorino Gonçalves Dias stadium, with a maximum capacity of 10,000 people is owned by Londrina, and sometimes is also used by the club.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842817", "title": "Joan Blackman", "text": "Joan Blackman\n\nJoan May Blackman (born May 17, 1938 in San Francisco, California) is an American actress.\n\nBlackman appeared in her first motion picture, \"Good Day for a Hanging\", in 1959. She had a significant role in two Elvis Presley films. She played Maile Duval in the 1961 film \"Blue Hawaii\" and the following year played Rose Grogan in \"Kid Galahad\". She also appeared with Dean Martin in \"Career\" (1959), and played Ellen Spelding, the love interest of Kreton, the character of Jerry Lewis in \"Visit to a Small Planet\" (1960). Her other film appearances included roles in \"The Great Impostor\" (1961), \"Twilight of Honor\" (1963), \"Daring Game\" (1968), \"Pets\" (1974), \"Macon County Line\" (1974), and \"Moonrunners\" (1975).\n\nBlackman made her television acting debut as a guest performer in a 1957 series, \"Hawkeye and the Last of the Mohicans\".\nAmong her television appearances was her role as Hilary Gray in the 1964 \"Perry Mason\" episode, \"The Case of the Ruinous Road.\" She also made single appearances on \"Bonanza\", \"I Spy\" and \"Gunsmoke\".\n\nDuring the 1965–66 season, Blackman was part of the regular cast of the prime time television serial, \"Peyton Place\". On that show, she played \"Marion Fowler,\" the wife to the district attorney.\n\nShe was married to Joby Baker from May 1959 to November 1961. They met in drama school.\n\nShe married actor Rockne Tarkington in July 1968 during the Civil Rights Movement. They divorced in October 1970. They have two children together.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842818", "title": "Nanaimo—Cowichan—The Islands", "text": "Nanaimo—Cowichan—The Islands\n\nNanaimo—Cowichan—The Islands was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1962 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1962 from Nanaimo. The 1966 electoral redistribution saw this riding gain territory from Metchosin and lose territory in the northern end toward the Englishman River. This riding was dissolved into Cowichan—Malahat—The Islands and Nanaimo—Alberni in 1979.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842820", "title": "Okanagan—Kootenay", "text": "Okanagan—Kootenay\n\nOkanagan—Kootenay was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Kamloops, Kootenay East and Okanagan—Revelstoke ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Kamloops—Shuswap, Kootenay East, and Okanagan North ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842824", "title": "Northwest Territories (electoral district)", "text": "Northwest Territories (electoral district)\n\nNorthwest Territories () is a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada.\n\nThis riding was created in 1962 from Mackenzie River riding. It was composed of the entire territory of the Northwest Territories. In 1979, the riding was divided into the ridings of Western Arctic and Nunatsiaq (later Nunavut). Following the creation of the territory of Nunavut in 1999, the riding of Western Arctic was made coterminous with the new Northwest Territories.\n\nAfter 1999, Western Arctic was an anomaly in that, unlike Nunavut and Yukon, it did not share the name of the territory with which it was coterminous. This did not change with subsequent representation orders because the electoral boundaries revision process did not affect the territories and the territorial riding names were specified in law. In 2014, at the behest of Western Arctic MP Dennis Bevington, the riding name was changed to Northwest Territories by Bill C-37, which also changed the names of several other ridings scheduled to come into effect with the representation order for the next election. Unlike those names, the change to Northwest Territories came into effect immediately as it involved amending the \"Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act\" itself.\n\nFrom 1887 to 1905, the only areas of the NWT with representation in Parliament were those areas that became part of present-day provinces (Alberta, Saskatchewan and western Manitoba). From 1905 to 1947, the NWT was not represented in Parliament. From 1947 to 1962, the southwestern NWT was represented only by the electoral district of Yukon—Mackenzie River and then Mackenzie River. In 1962, the electoral district of NWT was created to represent the entire territory, for the first time giving all Canadian territory a representative in Parliament.\n\nThis riding's boundaries remained the same following the 2012 redistribution.\n\n\nFollowing the division into Western Arctic and Nunatsiaq, the riding's first MP was Progressive Conservative MP Dave Nickerson, who was first elected in 1979 and re-elected twice. In the 1988 election, Nickerson was defeated by Liberal Ethel Blondin-Andrew who went on to serve as the riding's MP for eighteen years, including two years as Minister of State for Northern Development. In 2006, Blondin-Andrew was defeated by New Democrat Dennis Bevington. The earlier riding of Northwest Territories had been represented by New Democrat Wally Firth from 1972 to 1979.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nRiding associations are the local branches of the national political parties:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842833", "title": "SS Naronic", "text": "SS Naronic\n\nSS Naronic was a steamship built by Harland and Wolff in Belfast for the White Star Line. The ship was lost at sea after leaving Liverpool on February 11, 1893 bound for New York, with the loss of all 74 people on board. The ship's fate is a mystery that remains unsolved to this day.\n\n\"Naronic\" was launched on May 26, 1892, completed on 11 July 1892 and departed for her maiden voyage on 15 July 1892, sailing from Liverpool to New York. The 470 ft, twin screw steamship was designed as a freighter with the addition of limited passenger quarters to handle the increased traffic that White Star was experiencing on its non-New York routes. After her first run, \"Naronic\" made five more sailings without incident, before departing on what was to be her final voyage on February 11, 1893 under the command of Captain William Roberts.\n\nFor this voyage to New York, \"Naronic\" had a crew of 50, plus 24 cattlemen to attend to the ship's primary cargo, livestock. After leaving Liverpool, she stopped briefly at Point Lynas, Anglesey, North Wales, to put her pilot ashore before heading west into heavy seas, never to be seen again.\n\n\"Naronic\" had no wireless telegraph with which to send a distress call (it would be another five years before the Marconi Company opened their factory that produced the system the RMS \"Titanic\" used to send her distress signals), so whatever problem she encountered, her crew was on their own. The only knowledge we have of the incident comes from two sources.\n\nThe British steamer SS \"Coventry\" reported seeing two of \"Naronic\"'s empty lifeboats; the first lifeboat, found at 2:00 am on 4 March, was capsized and the second, found at 2:00 pm, was swamped. The first of these was found 19 miles (some sources put this at 90 miles) from the site where the White Star Line's \"Titanic\" would later meet a similar fate.\n\nThe second source of information are four bottles with messages inside, which were recovered later, that claimed to have been written while \"Naronic\" was sinking. Two of the bottles were found in the United States, one on March 3 in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, New York, and one in Ocean View, Virginia, on March 30. A third bottle was found in June 1893 in the Irish Channel, and the fourth was found on September 18 in the River Mersey near the ship's point of departure, Liverpool. While all four specifically mention \"Naronic\" sinking, the second bottle found contained the most detailed message:\n\nIt was signed \"John Olsen, Cattleman\"; however, there was no one with this name listed on the ship's manifest, the closest being John O'Hara and John Watson. A similar situation exists with the first bottle found, in that the signature, \"L. Winsel\", is also not on the manifest. The messages in the other two bottles are unsigned. Because of this, the reliability of the bottles as genuine testaments to the ship's fate has been questioned and the Court of Inquiry into the incident did not accept the bottled notes as genuine. If the messages were legitimate, the ship sank sometime after 3:20 a.m on February 19, 1893.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842835", "title": "Palliser (Alberta electoral district)", "text": "Palliser (Alberta electoral district)\n\nPalliser was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Acadia, Bow River, Calgary North, and Macleod ridings. It was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Bow River, Calgary East, Calgary North, Calgary West, and Red Deer ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842837", "title": "RISC Single Chip", "text": "RISC Single Chip\n\nThe RISC Single Chip, or RSC, is a single-chip microprocessor developed and fabricated by International Business Machines (IBM). The RSC was a feature-reduced single-chip implementation of the POWER1, a multi-chip central processing unit (CPU) which implemented the POWER instruction set architecture (ISA). It was used in entry-level workstation models of the IBM RS/6000 family, such as the Model 220 and 230.\nThe RSC operated at frequencies of 33 and 45 MHz. It has three execution units: a fixed point unit, floating point unit and branch processor; and an 8 KB unified instruction and data cache. Like the POWER1, the memory controller and I/O was tightly integrated, with the functional units responsible for the functions: a memory interface unit and sequencer unit; residing on the same die as the processor. The RSC contains nine functional units: fixed-point execution unit (FXU), floating-point execution unit (FPU), the memory management unit (MMU), memory interface unit (MIU), sequencer unit, common on-chip processor unit (COP), instruction fetch unit, and instruction queue and dispatch unit.\n\nThe fixed point unit executes integer instructions, generates addresses in load store operations and some portions of branch instructions. It has a three-stage pipeline consisting of \"decode\", \"execute\" and \"writeback\" stages. Some instructions require several cycles in the execute stage before they are completed.\n\nThe floating point unit executes floating point instructions. Unlike the POWER1, the RSC does not have register renaming capability due to a limited die area in which the unit must fit in. To further save die area, the floating point multiply-add array is 32 bits wide. To perform 64-bit (double-precision) operations, the operands are broken into two, and the instruction passes twice through the multiply-add array. The floating point pipeline consists of four stages, \"decode\", \"multiply\", \"add\" and \"writeback\".\n\nThe RSC has an 8 KB unified cache instead of the separate instruction and large data caches like the POWER1. The unified cache is two-way set associative and uses a store-through policy with no reload on a store miss and a least recently used (LRU) replacement policy. It has a cache line size of 64 bytes, and each cache line is sectored into four quadwords (16 bytes), with each quadword given its own valid bit in the cache directory. During each cycle, four words can be read from it and two doublewords can be written to it.\n\nThe memory data bus is 72 bits wide, with a 64 bits used for the data path and 8 bits used for error correcting code (ECC). The memory interface unit manages the bus and performs ECC checks on data coming into the processor. The ECC logic is capable of correcting single-bit errors. Compared to the POWER1, the RSC memory data bus is narrower and uses industry standard SIMMs instead of custom memory cards.\n\nThe RSC contained approximately one million transistors on a 14.9 mm by 15.2 mm (226.48 mm) die fabricated by IBM in a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) process with a minimal feature size of 0.8 μm and three levels of wiring. It is packaged in a 36 mm by 36 mm ceramic pin grid array module which had 201 signal pins. It required a 3.6 volt power supply and consumed 4 watts during operation at 33 MHz.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842840", "title": "Rocky Mountain (electoral district)", "text": "Rocky Mountain (electoral district)\n\nRocky Mountain \nwas a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Bow River, Jasper—Edson, Lethbridge and Macleod ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Bow River, Calgary South, Lethbridge, Peace River, Red Deer and Yellowhead ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842846", "title": "USS Peterson", "text": "USS Peterson\n\nUSS \"Peterson\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1842847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842847", "title": "Rich Harrison", "text": "Rich Harrison\n\nRichard Christopher Harrison (born 1979) is an American record producer and songwriter from Washington, D.C., specializing in R&B and hip hop music.\n\nThe winner of a Grammy Award, Harrison is well known for producing songs such as \"Get Right\" (performed by Jennifer Lopez), \"1 Thing\" (performed by Amerie) and \"Crazy in Love\" (performed by Beyoncé and Jay-Z). Harrison is the founder of Richcraft Entertainment, a label that housed artists such as singer Amerie, R&B girl group RichGirl, and rapper Young Steff.\n\nA classically trained pianist and trumpet player, from an early age Harrison demonstrated the ability to play music he heard on the radio, later attending Howard University in Washington, D.C., majoring in history and hip-hop music.\n\nHarrison's first big music deal came in 1999 when Harrison worked with Mary J. Blige on \"Beautiful Ones\" for her album \"Mary\". In 2001, he created his own production company, Richcraft Inc., and immediately wrote and produced Amerie's debut album, \"All I Have\". In 2004 he won a Grammy Award for Beyoncé's \"Crazy in Love\", and a nomination for his work on Usher's \"Confessions\" album.\n\nHarrison was back in the spotlight early in 2005 to work with Amerie, and produced Amerie's \"1 Thing\", from her album \"Touch\", known for its infectious breakbeats and Amerie's unconventional vocals. A similar beat was used by Harrison for Toni Braxton's \"Take This Ring\" from her 2005 album \"Libra\" both tracks include elements of go-go (mainly in the strong, funky drumming with added percussion). In 2005, \"The New York Times\" called him \"one of R&B's most exciting producers.\"\n\nHarrison is currently involved in projects with 50 Cent, Tweet, Missy Elliott, Eve, Brandy, Young Steff and Dawn Robinson. Harrison has worked with Janet Jackson, Usher, Alicia Keys and Jennifer Lopez, and is still assisting the South Korean pop singer Se7en with his first American album, assisted by his producer Lionell Davis.\n\nHarrison has been approached by many artists to assist with album productions, but it appears he is now focusing his time on his own artists, such as Young Steff and girl group RichGirl. There is a possibility that he may be appearing on Toni Braxton's forthcoming album.\n\nOther works include tracks for Claudette Ortiz's solo album, 3LW's latest and as yet unreleased album and tracks that may appear on 50 Cent's next album.\n\nMary J. Blige – \"Mary\"\n\nMary J. Blige – \"No More Drama\"\n\nAmerie – \"All I Have\", producer and songwriter\n\nKelly Rowland – \"Simply Deep\" \n\nTha' Rayne – \"Reign Supreme\"\n\nBeyoncé – \"Dangerously in Love\"\n\nUsher – \"Confessions\"\n\nDestiny's Child – \"Destiny Fulfilled\"\n\nJennifer Lopez – \"Rebirth\"\n\nChristina Milian – \"Be Cool\" soundtrack\n\nAmerie – \"Touch\"\n\nMissy Elliott – \"The Cookbook\" \n\nPussycat Dolls – \"PCD\"\n\nToni Braxton – \"Libra\" \n\nChristina Milian – \"So Amazin'\"\n\nChristina Aguilera – \"Back to Basics\"\n\nBeyoncé – \"B'Day\"\n\nDiddy – \"Press Play\"\n\nMos Def – \"Tru3 Magic\" \n\nChe'Nelle – \"Things Happen for a Reason\"\n\nJean Grae – \"Jeanius\"\n\nMarsha Ambrosius – \"Late Nights & Early Mornings\"\n\nJennifer Hudson – \"I Remember Me\"\n\nEric Roberson – \"Mister Nice Guy\"\n\nRichGirl – \"RichGirl\"\n\nRichGirl – \"Fall in Love with RichGirl\"\n\nAmerie - Drive\n\n3LW\n\nAmerie\n\nCynthia Lissette\n\nGwen Stefani\n\nJanet Jackson\n\nMary J. Blige\n\nNatasha Ramos\n\nRichGirl\n\nSe7en\n\nUsher\n\nYoung Steff\n\n"}
{"id": "1842849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842849", "title": "Salve Regina", "text": "Salve Regina\n\nThe \"Salve Regina\" ( , ; meaning 'Hail Queen'), also known as the \"Hail Holy Queen\", is a Marian hymn and one of four Marian antiphons sung at different seasons within the Christian liturgical calendar of the Catholic Church. The Salve Regina is traditionally sung at Compline in the time from the Saturday before Trinity Sunday until the Friday before the first Sunday of Advent. The \"Hail Holy Queen\" is also the final prayer of the Rosary.\n\nThe work was composed during the Middle Ages and originally appeared in Latin, the prevalent language of Western Christianity until modern times. Though traditionally ascribed to the eleventh-century German monk Hermann of Reichenau, it is regarded as anonymous by most musicologists. Traditionally it has been sung in Latin, though many translations exist. These are often used as spoken prayers.\n\nMarian antiphons have been sung, since the thirteenth century, at the close of Compline, the last Office of the day. Peter Canisius (d. 1597) noted that one praises God in Mary when one turns to her in song. Liturgically, the Salve Regina is the best known of four prescribed Marian Anthems recited after Compline, and, in some uses, after Lauds or other Hours. Its use after Compline is likely traceable to the monastic practice of intoning it in chapel and chanting it on the way to sleeping quarters.\n\nIt was set down in its current form at the Abbey of Cluny in the 12th century, where it was used as a processional hymn on Marian feasts. The Cistercians chanted the Salve Regina daily from 1218. It was popular at medieval universities as evening song, and according to Fr. Juniper Carol, it came to be part of the ritual for the blessing of a ship. While the anthem figured largely in liturgical and in general popular Catholic devotion, it was especially dear to sailors.\n\nIn the 18th century, the Salve Regina served as the outline for the classic Roman Catholic Mariology book \"The Glories of Mary\" by Alphonsus Liguori. In the first part of the book Alphonsus, a Doctor of the Church, discusses the Salve Regina and explains how God gave Mary to mankind as the \"Gate of Heaven\".\n\nIt was added to the series of prayers said at the end of Low Mass by Pope Leo XIII.\n\nThe Salve Regina is traditionally sung at the end of a priest's funeral Mass by the decedent's fellow priests in attendance.\n\nAs a prayer, it is commonly said at the end of the rosary.\n\nIn some cases, the following versicle, response, and collect are added:\n\nVariations exist among most translations.\n\n(in the version used by Catholics in the United Kingdom and in the Anglo-Catholic version, the wording \"mourning and weeping in this vale of tears\" is used in the 6th line)\n\n\n\nGerman priest Johann Georg Seidenbusch published a hymn entitled \"Gegrüßet seist du, Königin\" in his 1687 devotional book \"Marianischer Schnee-Berg\". This hymn was inspired by the pilgrimage devotions at Aufhausen Priory, and contains various salutations taken predominantly from the \"Salve Regina\". \n\nThis hymn was soon to be found in various forms in many Catholic devotional books, and a Latin translation, \"\"Salve Regina coelitum\"\", was soon created. The modern melody first appeared in the 1736 hymnal \"Geistliche Spiel- und Weckuhr\", and Melchior Ludwig Herold's 1808 hymnal \"Choralmelodien zum Heiligen Gesänge\" contained the version that is standard today.\n\nThe English translation \"Hail, Holy Queen enthroned above\" first appeared in \"The Roman Missal\" in 1884. This translation gained worldwide popularity after being featured in the 1992 film \"Sister Act\".\n\nAs an essential component of the Compline service, the hymn has been set to music by various composers, including Victoria, Palestrina, Josquin and Lassus. Charpentier, (5 settings, H 18, H 47, H 23, H 24, H 27), Louis-Nicolas Clérambault (C.114), Alessandro Scarlatti, Vivaldi, Handel, and Liszt composed their own settings in later years. Schubert composed no less than seven versions. Arvo Pärt composed a setting first performed in the Essen Cathedral in 2002. Olivier Latry premiered in 2007 an organ work \"\" which reflects in seven movements the lines of the hymn in Gregorian chant.\n\nIn 1976 the words of the first verse of the Salve Regina were used as a repeating theme in the song \"Oh What a Circus\" in the musical \"Evita\", with music by Andrew Lloyd Webber and lyrics by Tim Rice.\n\nSalve Regina University, a U.S. university established by the Sisters of Mercy in 1934, was named in honor of the Salve Regina hymn and motto.\n\nThe hymn was featured in the award winning 1992 classic film \"Sister Act\" starring Whoopi Goldberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842851", "title": "Battleford—Kindersley", "text": "Battleford—Kindersley\n\nBattleford—Kindersley was a federal electoral district (riding) n Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Kindersley, The Battlefords and Rosetown—Biggar ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Kindersley—Lloydminster and The Battlefords—Meadow Lake ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842854", "title": "Qu'Appelle—Moose Mountain", "text": "Qu'Appelle—Moose Mountain\n\nQu'Appelle—Moose Mountain was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Moose Mountain and Qu'Appelle ridings\n\nIt consisted of a part of Saskatchewan lying south of the Qu'Appelle River and east of the 2nd meridian.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Regina—Qu'Appelle and Souris—Moose Mountain ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842855", "title": "Regina East", "text": "Regina East\n\nRegina East was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Humboldt—Melfort, Melville, Moose Jaw—Lake Centre, QuAppelle, Regina City and Yorkton ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Regina—Qu'Appelle and Regina—Wascana ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842857", "title": "Transgression (album)", "text": "Transgression (album)\n\nTransgression is the sixth studio album by American heavy metal band Fear Factory. It was released on August 22, 2005 through Calvin Records. Guest appearances include Billy Gould, the bassist of Faith No More, and Lamb of God guitarist Mark Morton, who co-wrote the song \"New Promise\" . The album was released as an enhanced CD with access to the exclusive Fear Factory website. It was also released as an enhanced DualDisc with the DVD side featuring the whole album in (48,000 kHz), music videos and \"The Making of Transgression\" video. One could also retrieve another bonus track, entitled \"My Grave\", by putting the CD into the computer and clicking the 'Music' section at the special website.\n\nIt is the last album to feature original drummer Raymond Herrera and bassist/guitarist Christian Olde Wolbers who would leave Fear Factory in late 2008 after Dino Cazares's return to the band. \"Transgression\" was the first CD Fear Factory recorded since \"Soul of a New Machine\" without Rhys Fulber's input. \"Moment of Impact\" had a music video which found moderate airplay. The song \"Transgression\" was used in a scene from the 2007 thriller film \"Mr. Brooks\". This is the first Fear Factory album to include guitar solos, with the songs \"Echo of my Scream\" and \"New Promise\" featuring one each.\n\nThe album was met with mixed to negative reviews from both critics and fans. Many have cited the downpoint of the album being the poor production and in contrast to the band's previous albums. Additionally, while other albums had a more clean and industrial styled sound, Transgression has a more raw and less polished production style with most of the industrial elements being less prominent in the albums mix or removed completely. Guitar player Christian Olde Wolbers has stated that it was hard to have a producer do everything, where usually they are more involved with the people that they work with. Because of this the album has a different mix, a different sound to it than the previous ones. He described this album as \"half way finished\" and also said that he had to walk out of the studio because he wasn't happy with his guitar sound.\n\nWolbers stated that the band was disappointed with the album due to its hurried finish due to demands from the band's label. This also accounts for the cover songs. Had the band had more time to finish the record, more tracks would have been included, and the album overall would have sounded better. 18 songs were recorded during the Transgression sessions, with five that have yet to be released. Two of them are \"Ammunition\" and a cover of Godflesh's \"Anthem\".\n\nIn 2013 Christian Olde Wolbers via his Facebook page revealed more details regarding writing\\recording \"Transgression\" and \"Archetype\":\n\nThe title \"540,000° Fahrenheit\" refers to the heat in the middle of a Thermonuclear weapon explosion. The lyrics go into detail about the destruction wrought upon the body brought about by such an explosion, with the chorus lamenting the potential loss of life that may be caused by one of these devices if it was ever to be used. The title is actually a conversion of 300 000 °C. As it is such a high temperature, the addition of 32° is unnecessary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842860", "title": "Regina—Lake Centre", "text": "Regina—Lake Centre\n\nRegina—Lake Centre was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Humboldt—Melfort, Moose Jaw—Lake Centre, Qu'Appelle, Regina City, Rosetown—Biggar, Rosthern and Yorkton ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Humboldt—Lake Centre, Moose Jaw and Regina West ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842862", "title": "Saskatoon—Biggar", "text": "Saskatoon—Biggar\n\nSaskatoon—Biggar was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1978.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Prince Albert, Rosetown—Biggar, Rosthern, Saskatoon and The Battlefords ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Humboldt—Lake Centre, Kindersley—Lloydminster, Prince Albert, Saskatoon West and The Battlefords—Meadow Lake ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842867", "title": "Portage (electoral district)", "text": "Portage (electoral district)\n\nPortage was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Lisgar, Portage—Neepawa, Selkirk, Springfield, and St. Boniface ridings\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Lisgar, Portage—Marquette, Winnipeg North, Selkirk—Interlake, Winnipeg North Centre and Winnipeg—Assiniboine ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842870", "title": "Leeza Gibbons", "text": "Leeza Gibbons\n\nLeeza Kim Gibbons (born March 26, 1957) is an American talk show host. She is best known as a correspondent and co-host for \"Entertainment Tonight\" (1984–2000) as well as for having her own syndicated daytime talk show, \"Leeza\" (1993–2000). In 2013, her book \"Take 2\" became a \"New York Times\" bestseller and she won the Daytime Emmy for Outstanding Host in a Lifestyle or Travel program for the PBS show, \"My Generation\". On February 16, 2015, Leeza was named the winner of \"Celebrity Apprentice\", having raised $714,000 for her charity Leeza's Care Connection.\n\nGibbons was born in Hartsville, South Carolina, the daughter of Jean and Carlos Gibbons, a former state superintendent of education and antique shop owner. Gibbons has two siblings – a brother, Carlos Jr., and a sister, Cammy. Leeza and her family also adopted a young chimpanzee from a traveling circus they named Martha. When Martha was older, it became difficult to manage her care and she was sent to a Great Ape sanctuary in Florida where she still lives to this day. Gibbons grew up in Irmo, South Carolina, a suburb of Columbia, and graduated from Irmo High School. After completing high school, Gibbons graduated Summa Cum Laude from the University of South Carolina's school of journalism and mass communication, where she was a member of the Delta Delta Delta sorority.\n\nGibbons television career started in her home state of South Carolina, at WSPA-TV in Spartanburg. Her next stop was as the co host of \"PM Magazine\" for KFDM-TV in Beaumont, Texas, and later moved up to then-sister station WFAA-TV in Dallas.\n\nIn 1983 Gibbons joined WCBS-TV in New York City, where she became a host on \"Two on the Town\", a program modeled after \"PM Magazine\"; her co-host was Robb Weller. The following year, they would both join \"Entertainment Tonight\", with Gibbons as a reporter and co-anchor of the program's weekend edition. Concurrently hosted, \"Leeza\" was her own NBC/syndicated talk show, which ran from June 1993 to September 2000. The show originated as \"John & Leeza from Hollywood\", a talk show with former \"Entertainment Tonight\" co-host John Tesh. Tesh was dropped from the show after seven months, and Gibbons hosted solo for the remainder of the series. From 2001–2003, Gibbons was the host and managing editor of the television show \"Extra\". In 2011, she pulled down double duty (again) as the host of the PBS show \"My Generation\" (2011–2014) and as co-host and executive producer of the syndicated news magazine show \"America Now\" (2011–2015).\n\nIn addition to her television and radio career, Gibbons has received the Congressional Horizon Award for her work on children's issues.\n\nIn the 1990s, Gibbons hosted the radio countdown show \"Blockbuster Top 25 Countdown with Leeza Gibbons\". The show was created for Adult Contemporary and Hot Adult Contemporary formats. Gibbons counted down the hits in the respective formats and included entertainment news and pre-recorded interviews. When Blockbuster Video stopped sponsoring the program in 1999, the show's name was changed to \"Leeza Gibbons' Top 25 Countdown\". The Adult Contemporary version was cut to a top 20. In January 2001, the countdown aspect of the show was dropped and was renamed \"Leeza Gibbons' Hollywood Confidential\", which focused more on entertainment news. The change in format brought new life to the show, as the show continued on for another 12 years (ending in 2013).\n\nIn the early to mid-1990s, Gibbons partnered with Guthy Renker and became a trailblazer in the world of direct response. She was the first television star on a daily show to be featured in an infomercial as she starred in back-to-back blockbusters (\"Personal Power 2\" and \"Get the Edge\") with a young Tony Robbins.\n\nIn early 2000s, Gibbons launched her mineral makeup line, Sheer Cover Studio, with Guthy-Renker. Gibbons said, \"Sheer Cover is not just a makeup product, it's a transformative experience for women who have serious skin issues like sun damage, birth marks, scars and acne or just for any woman who wants natural looking skin that glows with a healthy radiance.\" Presently, Sheer Cover continues to be sold around the world.\n\nIn 2015, Gibbons received the Icon award from the Electronic Retailing Association, where it was announced that Gibbons had crossed the $1 billion mark in sales. Her partnership with Guthy-Renker is the longest studio/talent relationship in infomercial history.\n\nIn 2016, Gibbons and Guthy-Renker launched their latest infomercial together, \"Dr Denese Skinscience\".\n\nOn November 14, 2007, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger announced the appointment of Gibbons to the board that oversees California's stem cell research agency. Gibbons fills a slot designated for a patient advocate for Alzheimer's as the result of her nonprofit group, Leeza's Place, which is aimed at caregivers for persons with memory disorders. Gibbons' efforts with memory disorders grew out of her own family's experience with her mother who was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and died in May 2008.\n\nGibbons replaced Meredith Vieira for a week of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\" shows on June 23–27, 2008.\n\nIn May 2009 Gibbons' new book, \"Take Your Oxygen First: Protecting Your Health and Happiness While Caring for a Loved One with Memory Loss\", tells the story of Leeza's family's personal struggle with Alzheimer's disease after her mother's diagnosis. She provides practical advice on how caregivers and their families can (and must) take care of their own physical, emotional and spiritual needs in order to give better care to their loved ones who may be suffering with a memory loss disorder.\n\nIn 2013, Gibbons won her first Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lifestyle/Travel Host for the PBS series\" My Generation\".\n\nIn 2015, she won the NBC reality game-show series \"Celebrity Apprentice\", beating out TV news personality Geraldo Rivera. She became the second female winner of the show, after Joan Rivers.\n\nShe began co-hosting the \"Rose Parade\" on January 2, 2017.\n\nGibbons has been married four times; she was married to John Hicks from 1980 to 1982. From 1989 to 1991, she was married to British actor Christopher Quinten, who she met when they both featured in the 1988 New Zealand Telethon, and with whom she has a daughter, Jordan Alexandra (Lexi) Gibbons. She was married to actor Stephen Meadows from 1991 to 2005, and they had two sons, Troy and Nathan Daniel. In 2011, she married \"New York Times\" best selling author, Steven Fenton, in Beverly Hills. Fenton is the son of the former mayor of Beverly Hills, Frank M. Fenton.\n\nGibbons is a member of Hollywood United Methodist Church, and had all her children baptized there.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842871", "title": "South Korea at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "South Korea at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nSouth Korea competed as \"Korea\" at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. Athletes from North and South Korea marched together in the opening ceremony under the Korean Unification Flag. 281 competitors, 175 men and 106 women, took part in 144 events in 26 sports.\n\nThe Korean women swept the medals in the individual event and took the gold medal in the team event. The men added another gold medal with their victory in the team round, despite none of the individual archers advancing past the quarterfinal.\n\nThe Korean baseball team, which had finished last four years earlier, improved their result drastically in their second Olympic baseball appearance. They lost their games against perennial powers Cuba (which was the Cubans' 21st straight Olympic win) and the United States as well as Australia, but defeated defending silver medallist Japan as well as the other three teams in the competition. Their third-place finish in the preliminary round pitted them against the Americans in the semifinal, which Korea lost 3–2. In the bronze medal match, the Koreans again defeated the Japanese to take home the medal.\n\n\n\n\nMen's Cross Country Mountain Bike\n\nMen's Point Race\n\nMen's Keirin\n\nSeven fencers, five men and two women, represented South Korea in 2000.\n\n\n\nKorea competed in three Sailing events at the 2000 Olympics.\n\nEight South Korean shooters (four men and nfour women) qualified to compete in the following events:\n\nDuet\n\nMen's Singles Competition\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842872", "title": "Don Valley (electoral district)", "text": "Don Valley (electoral district)\n\nDon Valley was a federal electoral district of the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Eglinton, York East and York—Scarborough ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the part of Metropolitan Toronto bounded by a line beginning where the Don River would meet Donlands Avenue, east along the Don River, north along the West Branch of the Don River, east along Eglinton Avenue East, north along the Don River, west along Lawrence Avenue East, north along Don Mills Road, west along Bond Avenue, north along Leslie Street, west along York Mills Road, north along Bayview Avenue, southwest along Highway 401, south along Yonge Street, east along Merton Street, south along Bayview Avenue, east and south along the northern limit of the Township of East York, and east along the Don River to Donlands Avenue.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Don Valley West, Rosedale and York East ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842875", "title": "Etobicoke (electoral district)", "text": "Etobicoke (electoral district)\n\nEtobicoke was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of York—Humber riding.\n\nIt consisted of that part of Metropolitan Toronto bounded as follows: from the intersection of Dundas Street West and Jane Street, north along Jane Street, west along Eglinton Avenue West, northwest along the Humber River, west along Dixon Side Road, north along Islington Avenue North, west along Rexdale Boulevard, north along Kipling Avenue North, northwest along the West Branch of the Humber River, south along the boundary between the Townships of Etobicoke and Toronto, northeast along the Queen Elizabeth Way, north along Kipling Avenue South, and northeast along Dundas Street West to Jane Street.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Etobicoke Centre, Etobicoke North, Etobicoke—Lakeshore, York South—Weston and York West ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842877", "title": "Frontenac—Lennox and Addington", "text": "Frontenac—Lennox and Addington\n\nFrontenac—Lennox and Addington was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Hastings—Frontenac, Kingston, Lanark, Prince Edward—Lennox, Renfrew North and Renfrew South ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Hastings—Frontenac, Kingston and the Islands, Lanark—Renfrew—Carleton and Renfrew—Nipissing—Pembroke ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842880", "title": "Grenville—Carleton", "text": "Grenville—Carleton\n\nGrenville–Carleton was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Caleton and Grenville—Dundas ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Leeds—Grenville, Nepean—Carleton, Ottawa Centre, Ottawa West-Nepean and Stormont—Dundas ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842882", "title": "USS Niagara (1813)", "text": "USS Niagara (1813)\n\nUSS \"Niagara, commonly called the US Brig \"Niagara or the Flagship \"Niagara, is a wooden-hulled snow-brig that served as the relief flagship for Oliver Hazard Perry in the Battle of Lake Erie during the War of 1812. As the ship is certified for sail training by the United States Coast Guard, she is also designated SSV \"Niagara. \"Niagara\" is usually docked behind the Erie Maritime Museum in downtown Erie in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania as an outdoor exhibit for the museum. She also often travels the Great Lakes during the summer, serving as an ambassador of Pennsylvania when not docked. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973 and was designated the official state ship of Pennsylvania by the Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1988.\n\n\"Niagara\" was constructed from 1812 to 1813 to protect the vulnerable American coastline on Lake Erie from the British and played a pivotal role in the battle for the lake. Along with most warships that served in the war, \"Niagara\" was sunk for preservation on Presque Isle in 1820. Raised in 1913, it was rebuilt for the centennial of the Battle of Lake Erie. After deteriorating, the restoration of \"Niagara\" was started again in the 1930s, but was hampered by the lack of funds caused by the Great Depression and remained uncompleted until 1963. A more extensive restoration was carried out in 1988 in which much of the original ship was largely destroyed. The incorporation of new materials and modern equipment makes it ambiguous as to whether it is or is not a replica.\n\nIn 1907, President Theodore Roosevelt issued an executive order standardizing the prefix of all vessels of the United States Navy to be \"USS\". Prior to this, ship prefixes were used \"haphazardly\", but ships' names were often preceded by the abbreviation \"US\" and the type of vessel. A survey of documents contained in the National Archives and Records Administration that were sent to and from the Department of the Navy in that era found a number of inconsistencies. Of 55 correspondences that mentioned \"Niagara\", 43.6 percent used the term \"US Sloop \"Niagara\"\", 32.7 percent used \"US Brig \"Niagara\"\" and 23.6 percent had \"USS \"Niagara\"\".\n\nBecause of its historical role as the flagship of Oliver Hazard Perry during the Battle of Lake Erie, the ship is commonly referred to as the Flagship \"Niagara\". \"Niagara\" also carries the name of \"SSV \"Niagara\"\" due to its designation by the United States Coast Guard as a Sailing School Vessel.\n\nIn the beginning of September 1812, Daniel Dobbins, a merchant on the Great Lakes, arrived in Washington, D.C. to warn the United States government of the vulnerability of the Lake Erie coastline to a British attack. Dobbins had been captured by the British after a surprise attack at Fort Mackinac in Michigan, but was able to negotiate his release. Dobbins was briefly detained again by the British in Detroit after the city was captured.\nAfter several days of discussions with President James Madison and Secretary of the Navy Paul Hamilton, Dobbins convinced them that the safest place to build a fleet was in the sheltered bay formed by Presque Isle at Erie, Pennsylvania. On 15 September, Hamilton authorized Dobbins to construct four gunboats. Hamilton also granted $2,000 to be used for the construction and appointed Dobbins, a civilian, to the rank of sailing master in the United States Navy. On 31 December, Captain Isaac Chauncey, the commander of naval forces on Lake Ontario, arrived in Erie for a day, made some alterations to Dobbins' ship design and authorized him to build, additionally, two brigs. Oliver Hazard Perry was named chief naval officer in February 1813 and was given orders to report to Erie from Newport, Rhode Island. Perry arrived in Erie on 26 March, after being held up in Sackets Harbor, New York for two weeks by Chauncey in case of a possible attack by the British.\n\nThe construction of the fleet was largely supervised by Noah Brown, a shipwright brought in from New York City. The keels of two brigs were each constructed out of a single black oak log. Due to a lack of iron, the timbers that made up the hulls were joined using wooden pins called treenails. In place of the oakum and pitch normally used to caulk ships, lead was used. The timbers used in the brigs were still green, as the builders did not have the luxury of time to allow the wood to dry properly. A total of 65 cannons were shipped to Erie to arm the fleet; Hamilton approved the production of 37 cannons by a foundry in Washington, D.C. and the rest were moved from Sackets Harbor. and were launched in April 1813, in May, and the brig on 25 June. \"Niagara\" was launched on 4 July along with .\n\nOne of the strategic advantages of building a fleet in Erie was that the bay formed by Presque Isle was cut off from the Lake Erie by a sandbar, which prevented British warships from being able to enter the bay. The brigs \"Niagara\" and \"Lawrence\" both had a draft of , which was too deep to cross the sandbar. On 4 August, \"Niagara\" was pulled onto the sandbar using its anchor in a technique called kedging and was lightened by removing its cannons and ballast. A pair of barges, called \"camels\", were placed on either side of the ship. The camels were sunk and secured to \"Niagara\". The water was pumped out of the camel, lifting the ship. By the following day, \"Niagara\" was safely over the sandbar and was rearmed; \"Lawrence\" was floated over the sandbar a couple of days before \"Niagara\". During the construction, the area was usually under daily surveillance by the British. On the day \"Lawrence\" crossed the sandbar, a pair of British warships, and , observed for an hour but failed to notice Perry's actions.\n\nOn 6 August, Perry ordered a shakedown cruise of the fleet, now totaling ten after the inclusion of three merchant vessels—, and —that were converted into warships and , which was captured from the British. Lieutenant Daniel Turner was placed in command of \"Niagara\" for the cruise, as the fleet was still seriously undermanned; Dobbins had even written a letter, directed to Secretary Hamilton, out of desperation back in December 1812. Word arrived on 8 August that Jesse Elliott was en route to Erie from Black Rock, New York with 89 men. Elliott was promoted to Master Commandant in July, and was given command of \"Niagara\" after arriving in Erie on 10 August.\n\nOn 17 August, Perry's fleet anchored off of Sandusky, Ohio, and dispatched a boat to inform General William Henry Harrison of their presence. Harrison and his staff met with Perry aboard the ships the next day and agreed to a rendezvous in Put-in-Bay. In Put-in-Bay, Harrison made available 100 \"Kentucky and frontier riflemen\" to serve on board as Marines. The British fleet, under the command of Commodore Robert Heriot Barclay, was based at Fort Amherstburg, Canada. While Perry's fleet was under construction, Barclay had ordered the construction of , which was to be a match for \"Niagara\" and \"Lawrence\". Unbeknownst to Perry, supplies in Fort Amherstburg were running out, as his fleet had cut off shipments from Long Point. Fearing an uprising caused by a shortage of food, Barclay and his fleet set sail as soon as \"Detroit\" was complete.\n\nOn 10 September, both fleets got underway. \"Detroit\" fired the first shot around noon, while still out of range. Perry formed the fleet into a line, with the larger ships each being assigned a target: \"Lawrence\" to \"Detroit\", \"Niagara\" to \"Queen Charlotte\", and \"Caledonia\" to . As the line moved to engage, \"Niagara\", under the command of Elliott, lagged behind the fleet. The cause of the failure of \"Niagara\" to maintain formation is unknown, either deliberate on the part of Elliott, or because it was becalmed. After a couple of hours, all of the cannons on \"Lawrence\" that were facing the British were out of commission and the brig could no longer be maneuvered. Perry lowered his battle flag, emblazoned with the last words of Captain James Lawrence, \"Don't Give Up The Ship\", and transferred to the still-intact \"Niagara\" via a small rowboat. Perry took command of \"Niagara\" and crossed the British line perpendicularly in a tactic called crossing the \"T\". \"Queen Charlotte\", while attempting to prevent \"Niagara\" from breaking through the line, collided with \"Detroit\" and became entangled. \"Niagara\" opened fire with both broadsides: the starboard broadside hitting \"Queen Charlotte\" and \"Detroit\", and the port into \"Lady Prevost\". After several broadsides, \"Queen Charlotte\" surrendered, followed shortly after by \"Detroit\" and the rest of the British fleet.\n\nAfter the battle, \"Niagara\" assisted in the transporting of Harrison's army to the mouth of the Detroit River in preparation for an invasion of southwest Ontario. On 25 April 1814, command of \"Niagara\" was transferred to Arthur Sinclair. After repairs, the fleet—consisting of \"Niagara\", \"Lawrence\", \"Caledonia\", \"Scorpion\" and \"Tigress\"—departed Erie for Detroit. In Detroit, soldiers under the command of Colonel George Croghan embarked with the fleet, bound for Mackinac Island. The fleet arrived on 26 July and landed on 4 August. The battle was ultimately lost, with Croghan being forced to retreat back to his boats. On 13 August, the fleet arrived at the mouth of the Nottawasaga River where they attacked a blockhouse owned by the North West Company. The blockhouse was destroyed by the British, along with the schooner HMS \"Nancy\", to prevent their supplies from being captured.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Ghent was signed, ending the war, the majority of the surviving ships that participated in the Battle of Lake Erie were disposed of in 1815. \"Queen Charlotte\", \"Detroit\", and \"Lawrence\" were sunk for preservation in Misery Bay on Presque Isle, whereas \"Niagara\" was kept afloat and operated as a receiving ship. It was sunk in 1820 when the naval station at Presque Isle was closed. Benjamin H. Brown of Rochester, New York bought all four ships in 1825, but sold them in 1836 to George Miles of Erie. Miles raised the ships, planning on using them as merchant vessels. \"Lawrence\" and \"Niagara\", not having a large enough hold and being in poor condition, were allowed to sink again.\n\nAs part of celebrations for the centennial of the Battle of Lake Erie, \"Niagara\" was raised from Misery Bay in April 1913. Its keel was found to be in good enough condition for the brig to be rebuilt. Efforts to rebuild \"Niagara\" were hampered by the lack of original plans. The restored \"Niagara\" was launched on 7 June, complete with a new bowsprit, rigging and reproduction cannons supplied by the Boston Navy Yard. From mid-July to mid-September, \"Niagara\" was towed to various ports on the Great Lakes—including Milwaukee, Chicago, Detroit, Buffalo and Cleveland—by USS \"Wolverine\", the Navy's first iron-hulled warship. Ownership of \"Niagara\" was transferred to the City of Erie in 1917, where it remained docked deteriorating.\n\nThe City of Erie transferred ownership of \"Niagara\" to the newly formed \"USS Niagara Foundation\" in 1929, which was tasked with \"acquiring and restoring the ship and making it the centerpiece of a museum.\" The onset of the Great Depression forced the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to take ownership, through the Flagship Niagara Commission, two years later. $50,000 was made available for another restoration in 1931, but by 1938 the state stopped its funding, leaving the restoration unfinished. \"Niagara\" was transferred to the Pennsylvania Historical Commission, predecessor of the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, and became a project for the Works Progress Administration. The Historical Commission contracted Howard I. Chapelle to draw up plans for another restoration of \"Niagara\", based on other period ships that were built by Noah Brown, like . According to Chapelle, very little of the original \"Niagara\" remained, as parts of it had been sold as souvenirs, and the 1913 reconstruction was not accurate to the period. The hull of \"Niagara\" was launched in October 1943 without any masts, spars, or rigging. It was placed in a concrete cradle in 1951. Discovery of dry rot throughout every part of \"Niagara\" made it clear that a complete reconstruction would eventually be needed. Funds were appropriated by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission to make \"Niagara\" \"presentable\" for the sesquicentennial of the Battle of Lake Erie in 1963 with the addition of rigging and cannons. \"Niagara\" was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on 11 April 1973.\n\nIn 1981, the Flagship Niagara League was formed with intent of reconstructing \"Niagara\" so that it would be a working ship, instead of an \"outdoor museum piece\". The League was eventually incorporated as a non-profit organization associated with the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission. Melbourne Smith, builder of the schooner , was hired in 1986 by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission to head the reconstruction. The decay of \"Niagara\" was so bad that it was dismantled and ultimately destroyed, with various timbers salvaged and used in non-structural areas of the ship. The destruction of the old ship and use of new wood often leads \"Niagara\" to be considered a replica. While the first \"Niagara\" was built hurriedly, the new \"Niagara\" was built out of properly seasoned and preserved yellow pine and Douglas fir. The new \"Niagara\" was launched on 10 September 1988, but was not completed until 18 July 1990 when its sea trials were held. The Pennsylvania General Assembly designated \"Niagara\" as the official flagship of Pennsylvania on 29 April 1988 and described its purpose as being a \"sailing ambassador for Pennsylvania\". In March 2008, the yellow pine mainmast was replaced with one of Douglas fir.\n\nThe United States Coast Guard certified \"Niagara\" as a Sailing School Vessel in August 2005. For safety reasons, \"Niagara\" was equipped with modern equipment such as auxiliary diesel engines, lifeboats, radar, LORAN and radio. In 2009, the Flagship Niagara League assumed day-to-day management of \"Niagara\" after a decision by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission to cut $250,000 to fill a budget deficit. As part of the bicentennial of the Battle of Lake Erie, \"Niagara\" took part in a reenactment of the battle on 2 September 2013 in Put-In-Bay along with 16 other tall ships.\n\nIn 1996, a commemorative Pennsylvania license plate was introduced depicting \"Niagara\" during the Battle of Lake Erie. Concerns by law enforcement about the plates' legibility led them to be no longer issued.\n\nIn 2010, \"Niagara\" was used to depict the whaleship in an episode of the Public Broadcasting Service documentary series \"American Experience\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842883", "title": "Grey—Simcoe", "text": "Grey—Simcoe\n\nGrey—Simcoe was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Grey North, Grey—Bruce and Simcoe East ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the City of Owen Sound, the Village of Chatsworth and the Townships of Collingwood, Euphrasia, Holland, Osprey, St. Vincent and Sydenham in the County of Grey; and Christian Islands Indian Reserve No. 30 and the Townships of Flos, Nottawasaga, Sunnidale and Tiny (excepting the Town of Penetanguishene) in the County of Simcoe.\n\nIn 1976, it was redefined to consist of the City of Owen Sound, the Townships of Artemesia, Collingwood, Euphrasia, Proton, Osprey, Sarawak, St. Vincent and Sydenham (including the Town of Markdale) in the County of Grey; and the Townships of Nottawasaga and Sunnidale (including the Town of Wasaga Beach) in the County of Simcoe.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Bruce—Grey, Simcoe Centre, Simcoe North and Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842884", "title": "Halton—Wentworth", "text": "Halton—Wentworth\n\nHalton—Wentworth was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Halton and Wentworth ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the Town of Burlington and the Township of Nassagaweya in the County of Halton, and the Town of Burlington, the Town of Dundas and the Townships of East Flamborough and West Flamborough in the County of Wentworth.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Burlington, Guelph, Halton and Hamilton—Wentworth ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842886", "title": "Prophetstown State Park", "text": "Prophetstown State Park\n\nProphetstown State Park commemorates a Native American village founded in 1808 by Tecumseh and his brother Tenskwatawa (\"The Prophet\") north of present-day Lafayette, Indiana, which grew into a large, multi-tribal community. The park also features the open-air Museum at Prophetstown, with living history exhibits including a Shawnee village and a 1920s-era farmstead. Battle Ground, Indiana, is a village about a mile east of the site of the Battle of Tippecanoe in 1811, a crucial battle in the Tecumseh's War which ultimately led to that initial village's demise. Indiana’s newest state park was established in 2004.\n\nThe park was first proposed in 1989, but didn't receive funding from the Indiana legislature until 1994. Land acquisition continued through 1999 when the legislature funded $3.7 million to create the park. Indiana Governor Joe Kernan formally dedicated the park in 2004. The campground opened the following year and was a partnership with Lafayette as part of the Lafayette Inn tax proceeds. Construction of the aquatic park began in October 2012 and was completed in 2013 after lobbying by local officials to drive more visitors to the park and Tippecanoe County.\n\nThe Farm at Prophetstown is a non-profit organization that rents approximately from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources to show farming life as it was in the 1920s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842887", "title": "Mogi Mirim Esporte Clube", "text": "Mogi Mirim Esporte Clube\n\nMogi Mirim Esporte Clube, commonly called Mogi Mirim, is a Brazilian football team from Mogi Mirim in São Paulo, founded 1 February 1932.\n\nThe team's home ground is the Papa João Paulo II (Pope John Paul II) stadium, which has a capacity of 19,900. Mogi Mirim plays in red shirts, shorts and socks.\n\nThe club was founded on February 1, 1932, and since its first year the club has been competing in tournaments organized by the Federação Paulista de Futebol (Paulista Football Federation).\nThe club became a professional team in the 1950s, but its results were poor at the beginning. In the 1980s, after the arrival of Wilson de Barros as club president, Mogi Mirim began to see results and eventually was promoted to the Campeonato Paulista first division. The club was relegated to the second division in 1994, but was promoted again to the first division the following year.\n\nIn 2008, Rivaldo, who is one of the most famous Brazilian footballers, became the chairman of the club.\n\nIn December 2014, Rivaldo put the club up for sale on Instagram.\n\nCorrect as of 2016.\n\nThe Romildo Vitor Gomes Ferreira stadium was previously known as Papa João Paulo II, named after Pope John Paul II, but after the ex-player Rivaldo became the club's president, he decided to change the stadium's name after his father's name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842888", "title": "Hamilton—Wentworth (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Hamilton—Wentworth (provincial electoral district)\n\nHamilton—Wentworth was an electoral riding in Ontario, Canada. It was represented in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1934 to 1971. \n"}
{"id": "1842890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842890", "title": "Hastings (electoral district)", "text": "Hastings (electoral district)\n\nHastings was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Hastings South and Hastings—Frontenac ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the City of Belleville and the Townships of Cashel, Dungannon, Elzevir, Faraday, Grimsthorpe, Hungerford, Huntingdon, Lake, Limerick, Madoc, Marmora, Mayo, Thurlow, Tudor, Tyendinaga and Wollaston in the County of Hastings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Prince Edward and Hastings—Frontenac ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842892", "title": "Kitchener (electoral district)", "text": "Kitchener (electoral district)\n\nKitchener was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Waterloo North and Waterloo South ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the City of Kitchener, Ontario.\n\nIn 1976, it was redefined to exclude the northeastern part of the city.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Kitchener Centre and Waterloo—Wellington ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842898", "title": "London East", "text": "London East\n\nLondon East was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of London and Middlesex East ridings.\n\nIt was initially defined as consisting of the eastern parts of the City of London, Ontario, and the Township of London. In 1976, it was redefined to consist of the eastern part of the City of London.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between London West, London—Adelaide and London—Fanshawe ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following members of the House of Commons of Canada:\n\n \n\n'London East' was a village that was annexed by the London, Ontario on August 20, 1884 and taking effect on January 1, 1885. The boundaries of London East were Adelaide Street to the west, Oxford Street to the north, Highbury Avenue to the east and the South branch of the Thames River to the south.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842900", "title": "Middlesex (electoral district)", "text": "Middlesex (electoral district)\n\nMiddlesex (also known as Middlesex—London—Lambton) was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Lambton West, Lambton—Kent, Middlesex West and Middlesex East ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n(a) the north-central part of the City of London bounded by Adelaide Street on the west, Clarke Side Road on the east by, and Cheapside Street on the south;\n\n(b) in the County of Middlesex, the Townships of Adelaide, Caradoc, Delaware, Ekfrid, Lobo, Metcalfe, Mosa, West Nissouri and West Williams, Westminster, North Dorchester (excluding the Village of Belmont), East Williams (excluding the Village of Ailsa Craig), and the Township of London (excluding the part of the Township lying south of the Fanshawe Road and bounded on the east by Crumlin Road and on the west by Clarke Side Road); and\n\n(c) in the County of Lambton, the Town of Forest and the Townships of Bosanquet and Warwick.\n\nThe electoral district changed name in 1974 to \"Middlesex—London—Lambton\", and was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Lambton—Middlesex, London East and Middlesex East ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842901", "title": "Norfolk—Haldimand", "text": "Norfolk—Haldimand\n\nNorfolk—Haldimand was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Brant—Haldimand and Norfolk ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the County of Norfolk (excluding the Town of Tillsonburg), and, in the County of Haldimand, the Village of Hagersville and the Townships of North Cayuga, South Cayuga, Oneida, Rainham, Seneca and Walpole (excluding parts lying within the Six Nations Indian Reserve No. 40 and New Credit Indian Reserve No. 40A).\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Haldimand—Norfolk and Oxford ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842902", "title": "Northumberland—Durham", "text": "Northumberland—Durham\n\nNorthumberland—Durham was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Durham and Northumberland ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the County of Durham, the Townships of Alnwick, Haldimand, Hamilton, South Monaghan and Percy in the County of Northumberland, and the Village of Hastings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it became part of Durham—Northumberland riding.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842904", "title": "Ottawa—Carleton", "text": "Ottawa—Carleton\n\nOttawa–Carleton was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Carleton, Ottawa East and Russell ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the eastern parts of the city of Ottawa, the Village of Rockcliffe Park, the Township of Gloucester excluding Long Island, and the Township of Cumberland.\n\nIn 1976, the city of Ottawa parts of the riding were redefined.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Gloucester–Carleton, Ottawa South and Ottawa—Vanier ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842907", "title": "Peel South", "text": "Peel South\n\nPeel South (also known as Mississauga riding) was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1974. It was located in the province of Ontario. The riding was created in 1966 from parts of the Peel riding.\n\nIt consisted of the Township of Toronto in the County of Peel, and the part of Metropolitan Toronto lying west of the Etobicoke River.\n\nThe electoral district's name was changed in late 1973 to Mississauga, on a request by then MP Don Blenkarn, to coincide with the creation of the City of Mississauga. It was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Brampton—Halton Hills, Mississauga North and Mississauga South ridings.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842908", "title": "Peel—Dufferin—Simcoe", "text": "Peel—Dufferin—Simcoe\n\nPeel—Dufferin—Simcoe was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Peel—Dufferin riding.\n\nIt consisted of the Townships of Mono and Mulmur in the County of Dufferin, the Townships of Albion, Caledon, Chinguacousy and Toronto Gore in the County of Peel, and, in the county of Simcoe, the Town of Alliston and the Townships of Adjala, Tosorontio and Essa (excluding the Village of Cookstown), and the Town of Orangeville.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Brampton—Halton Hills, Dufferin—Wellington, Simcoe South and York—Peel ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1842917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842917", "title": "Thunder Bay (electoral district)", "text": "Thunder Bay (electoral district)\n\nThunder Bay was a federal electoral district in the northwestern part of the province of Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Fort William, Kenora—Rainy River and Port Arthur ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the eastern part of the territorial district of Rainy River; (b) the territorial district of Thunder Bay excluding the Cities of Fort William and Port Arthur and the Townships of Aldina, Blake, Crooks, Devon, Fraleigh, Gillies, Hartington, Lismore, Lybster, Marks, Neebing, O'Connor, Paipoonge, Pardee, Pearson, Scoble, Strange, Adrian, Blackwell, Conmee, Forbes, Fowler, Goldie, Gorham, Horne, Jacques, Laurie, MacGregor, McIntyre, McTavish, Oliver, Sackville, Sibley and Ware; the southeastern part of the territorial district of Kenora; part of the Patricia Portion of the territorial district of Kenora; and the western part of the territorial district of Algoma.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Cochrane North, Kenora—Rainy River, Thunder Bay—Atikokan and Thunder Bay—Nipigon ridings.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842920", "title": "Waterloo (electoral district)", "text": "Waterloo (electoral district)\n\nWaterloo is the name of a federal electoral district in the Waterloo Region of Ontario, Canada, that has been used in the House of Commons of Canada from since 1968 (from 1973 to 1976, it was known as Waterloo—Cambridge). Between 1997 and 2015, the riding was known as Kitchener—Waterloo.\n\nThe Waterloo electoral district contains all of the city of Waterloo plus the Bridgeport neighbourhood of Kitchener.\n\nThe Waterloo electoral district was created in 1966 from parts of Waterloo North and Waterloo South electoral districts. It initially comprised large sections of the Waterloo County (later Region) outside of the City of Kitchener, in particular in included, the City of Galt (now part of Cambridge), the City of Waterloo and the Townships of North Dumfries and Waterloo.\n\nAfter the amalgamation of the City of Galt with the Towns of Preston and Hespeler into the City of Cambridge in 1973, the name of the electoral district was changed to Waterloo—Cambridge. The boundaries of the district were not changed to actually add the Preston and Hespeler asections of Cambridge into the riding.\n\nIn 1976, Waterloo—Cambridge was abolished when it was redistributed among Cambridge, Kitchener, and a new Waterloo electoral district.\n\nThe new Waterloo electoral district was created from parts of the Kitchener, Perth—Wilmot, Waterloo—Cambridge, and Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Waterloo electoral districts. It comprised the Townships of Wellesley, Wilmot and Woolwich, the City of Waterloo, and parts of the City of Kitchener.\n\nIn 1987, the Waterloo electoral district was redefined to comprise the City of Waterloo, the northern part of the City of Kitchener, and the Township of Woolwich. The Townships of Wellesley and Wilmot were redistributed to the Perth—Wellington—Waterloo district.\n\nThe Waterloo electoral district was renamed to Kitchener—Waterloo and part of it was split into Waterloo—Wellington. The new district consisted initially of the City of Waterloo and the part of the City of Kitchener lying north of a line drawn from west to east along Highland Road West, Lawrence Avenue and Victoria Street.\n\nIn 2003, the Kitchener part of the riding was redefined to be the part of the city lying north of a line drawn from west to east along Highland Road West, Fischer Hallman Road and the Canadian National Railway situated north of Shadeland Crescent.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Census and a Canadian Parliament decision to increase the number of Federal electoral districts from 308 to 338, Elections Canada conducted a redistribution process that began with the establishment of Electoral Boundaries Commissions for each province in 2012. As a result of the work of the Electoral Boundaries Commission for the Province of Ontario, which was concluded in July 2013, a revived Waterloo was created out of 80% of the old Kitchener—Waterloo. The rest of the Kitchener-Waterloo riding was split between Kitchener Centre and Kitchener-Conestoga The revived riding comprised virtually all of the western portion of the old Kitchener—Waterloo, including all of Waterloo and a sliver of Kitchener lying north of the Canadian National Railway and northeast of Conestoga Parkway.\n\nThis riding has elected the following members of the House of Commons of Canada:\n\n \n\nNote: Conservative vote is compared to the total of the Canadian Alliance vote and Progressive Conservative vote in 2000 election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842921", "title": "Wellington—Grey", "text": "Wellington—Grey\n\nWellington—Grey, renamed Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Waterloo in 1970, was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Dufferin—Simcoe, Grey—Bruce, Waterloo North, Wellington South and Wellington—Huron ridings.\n\nWellington—Grey consisted of:\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Bruce—Grey, Dufferin—Wellington, Grey—Simcoe, Guelph and Waterloo ridings.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842922", "title": "Windsor—Walkerville", "text": "Windsor—Walkerville\n\nWindsor—Walkerville was a federal electoral district that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988. It was located in the southwest corner of the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Essex East and Essex West ridings. The electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was merged into Windsor—Lake St. Clair riding, which was later renamed Windsor—St. Clair.\nWindsor—Walkerville initially consisted of the Town of Tecumseh, the Village of St. Clair Beach and the eastern part of the City of Windsor (including Peche Island). In 1976, the Windsor portion was redefined.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842923", "title": "Billie Dove", "text": "Billie Dove\n\nLillian Bohny (born Bertha Bohny, May 14, 1903 – December 31, 1997), known professionally as Billie Dove, was an American actress.\n\nDove was born Bertha Bohny in 1903 to Charles and Bertha (née Kagl) Bohny, Swiss immigrants. As a teen, she worked as a model to help support her family and was hired as a teenager by Florenz Ziegfeld to appear in his Ziegfeld Follies Revue. She legally changed her name to Lillian Bohny in the early 1920s and moved to Hollywood, where she began appearing in silent films. She soon became one of the more popular actresses of the 1920s, appearing in Douglas Fairbanks' smash hit Technicolor film \"The Black Pirate\" (1926), as Rodeo West in \"The Painted Angel\" (1929), and \"The American Beauty\" (1927).\n\nShe married Irvin Willat, the director of her seventh film, in 1923. The two divorced in 1929. Dove had a legion of male fans, one of her more persistent was Howard Hughes. She had a three-year romance with Hughes and was engaged to marry him, but she ended the relationship. \n\nHughes cast her as a comedian in his film \"Cock of the Air\" (1932). She also appeared in his movie \"The Age for Love\" (1931).\n\nDove was also a pilot, poet, and painter.\n\nFollowing her last film \"Blondie of the Follies\" (1932), Dove retired from the screen to be with her family. She married wealthy oil executive Robert Alan Kenaston in 1933, a marriage that lasted for 37 years until his death in 1970. The couple had a son, Robert Alan Kenaston, Jr., who married actress Claire Kelly and died in 1995 from cancer, and an adopted daughter, Gail who briefly married media mogul Merv Adelson. Billie Dove later had a brief third marriage to architect John Miller, which ended in divorce in the 1970s.\n\nAside from a cameo in \"Diamond Head\" (1963), Dove never returned to the movies. She spent her retirement years in Rancho Mirage, then moved to the Motion Picture & Television Country House and Hospital in Woodland Hills, California where she died of pneumonia on New Year's Eve 1997, aged 94.\n\nShe is interred in the Freedom Mausoleum at Forest Lawn Glendale.\n\nDove has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 6351 Hollywood Blvd. Jazz singer Billie Holiday took her professional pseudonym from Dove as an admirer of the actress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842924", "title": "Parkland County", "text": "Parkland County\n\nParkland County is a municipal district in central Alberta, Canada. Located west of Edmonton in Census Division No. 11, its municipal office, Parkland County Centre, is located north of the Town of Stony Plain on Highway 779.\n\nIn the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Parkland County recorded a population of 32,097 living in 11,615 of its 12,910 total private dwellings, a change from its 2011 population of 30,568. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Parkland County had a population of 30,568 living in 10,931 of its 12,150 total dwellings, a 4.6% change from its 2006 adjusted population of 29,220. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\nThe population of Parkland County according to its 2009 municipal census is 30,089.\n\nParkland County's economic development hub is the Acheson Industrial Area. Its of land is home to over 200 businesses.\n\n\nThe following urban municipalities are surrounded by Parkland County:\n\n\nThe following hamlets are located within Parkland County:\n\nThe following localities are located within Parkland County:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842928", "title": "Matobo", "text": "Matobo\n\nMatobo can refer to:\n\nFictional places:\n"}
{"id": "1842937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842937", "title": "Frontenac (Quebec electoral district)", "text": "Frontenac (Quebec electoral district)\n\nFrontenac was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Lotbinière and Mégantic ridings. It was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Beauce and Frontenac—Mégantic ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of:\n\nIn 1976, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nBy-election: On Mr. Dumont's resignation, 6 April 1970\n\nDue to the death of Social Credit candidate Nelson Lassard, the 1980 general election scheduled for February 18 was postponed until March 24.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842942", "title": "IT Service Management Forum", "text": "IT Service Management Forum\n\nThe IT Service Management Forum (\"it\"SMF) is an independent, international, not-for-profit organization of IT Service Management (ITSM) professionals worldwide. Around the operation of IT services the \"it\"SMF collects, develops and publishes “best practice”, supports education and training, discusses the development of ITSM tools, initiates advisory ideas about ITSM and held conventions. The \"it\"SMF is concerned with promoting ITIL (IT Infrastructure Library), Best Practice in IT Service Management and has a strong interest in the international ISO/IEC 20000 standard. The \"it\"SMF publishes books covering various aspects of Service Management through a process of endorsing them as part of the \"it\"SMF Library.\n\nThe \"it\"SMF UK takes at this time the international coordination. With a growing number of national chapters a real international umbrella was needed. The \"it\"SMF International was created in 2004.\n\nTypical activities in the national chapters were:\n\"it\"SMF chapters were partner of conferences of other organizations (e.g. Gartner “Business Intelligence & Information Management Summit 2013” in Australia ). There were own studies or together with other, well known research organizations (e.g. “Drive Service Management Adjustments With Peer Comparisons” from the \"it\"SMF USA together with Forrester Research, Inc.)\n\nThere were three books about “ITIL in the Public Sector” (“ITIL in der Öffentlichen Verwaltung”), “Organization Model for the IT in the Public Sector” (“Organizationsmodell für die IT in der Öffentlichen Verwaltung”)) and “Service Level Management in the Public Sector” (“Service Level Management in der Öffentlichen Verwaltung”)).\n\nAnnually in December the German chapter celebrates a two-day congress. Topics were provided in different formats with typical keynotes, four or five parallel user sessions, which presents three 20-minute-speeches in a row and a joint discussion, and some open world café discussions.\n\nDuring the year typical two one day meetings were held – name \"it\"SMF Live! - with different, actual topics. A special event for the Public Sector is the event \"FIT-ÖV\".\n\nThe chapter award since 2009 the ITSM project of the year. The first awarded project was “ITIL 2010” of the \" Federal Employment Agency\" (\"Bundesagentur für Arbeit\", Germany).\n\n"}
{"id": "1842944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842944", "title": "Raft River", "text": "Raft River\n\nThe Raft River is a tributary of the Snake River located in northern Utah and southern Idaho in the United States. It is part of the Columbia River Basin.\n\nThe Raft River's headwaters are mostly on the east side of the Albion Mountains, southeast of Oakley, Idaho. But its Clear Creek tributary also drains the north side of the Raft River Mountains in Utah, and runoff from the nearby Grouse Creek Range also flows into the Raft River. Portions of the Black Pine and Sublett mountains are also in the river's watershed. The river flows generally north to join the Snake River in Cassia County, Idaho.\n\nThe Raft River's drainage basin includes four divisions of Sawtooth National Forest, and is approximately in area, of which approximately 95% of the overall area is in Idaho.\n\nThe river is named for the fact Oregon Trail pioneers would cross the river with rafts, which was often flooded as a result of beaver dams.\n\nThe Oregon Trail crossed the Raft River approximately south of Interstate 86. At the top of the bluff above Raft River the \"Parting of the Ways\" took place. The Oregon Trail continued west and the California Trail headed south. Graves of those who died from being mortally wounded at Massacre Rocks can be found in the same area along the river. The Clark Massacre of 1851 took place near the Raft River itself.\n\nThe Raft River also was a turning point for the Emigrants. They would see the Raft as a separating place.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842950", "title": "Gamelin (electoral district)", "text": "Gamelin (electoral district)\n\nGamelin was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988. This riding was created in 1966 from parts of Maisonneuve—Rosemont and Mercier ridings. It was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Anjou—Rivière-des-Prairies, Hochelaga—Maisonneuve, Mercier and Saint-Léonard ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842952", "title": "Lachine (electoral district)", "text": "Lachine (electoral district)\n\nLachine (formerly known as Lachine—Lakeshore) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from Jacques-Cartier—Lasalle riding. It initially consisted of the Cities of Dorval, Lachine and Pointe-Claire and the Town of Ile-Dorval.\n\nThe riding's name was changed to \"Lachine—Lakeshore\" in 1973. Lachine—Lakeshore was abolished in 1976, and a new Lachine riding was created. The new riding consisted of the Cities of Beaconsfield, Dorval, and Pointe-Claire; the Town of Ile-Dorval; and the western part of the City of Lachine.\n\nLachine riding was abolished in 1987 when it was merged into Lachine—Lac-Saint-Louis.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1842953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842953", "title": "Four'n Twenty", "text": "Four'n Twenty\n\nFour'n Twenty, stylised FOUR'N TWENTY, is an Australian brand of meat pies and sausage rolls, owned by parent company Patties Foods. The classic Four'n Twenty pie is filled with mutton and beef (a minimum of 25%, per Food Standards Australia New Zealand regulations), mostly shoulder meat, in a spiced gravy with carrot and onion. The crust is a flour and margarine shortcrust pastry, with the upper crust additionally rolled and folded to make it slightly flaky. Other fillings include chicken and vegetable, pulled pork, and grass-fed Angus beef.\n\nAustralians have the highest per-capita meat pie consumption in the world, and Four'n Twenty pies are considered iconic, particularly in the context of football matches. They are often served with tomato sauce.\n\nThe brand's name is a reference to the nursery rhyme \"Sing a Song of Sixpence\", which includes the lines \"Four and twenty blackbirds / Baked in a pie\". Some early logos alluded to this, with 24 blackbirds escaping from a pie and taking flight, although the current logo features only text.\n\nThe Four'n Twenty pie was created in Bendigo, Victoria, Australia by Leslie Thompson McClure in 1947. Initially called the Dad & Dave Pie after the name of his cafe, McClure renamed the pie using the nursery rhyme suggestion from an employee. At that time, production was around 50 pies per day.\n\nMcClure took a sampling of his pies to the Royal Melbourne Agricultural Show, where they proved very popular. Increasing demand for the pie caused McClure to open a bakery in a pavilion of the showgrounds in 1949, then a factory in nearby Union Road, Ascot Vale in 1953, and eventually a larger factory in Kensington.\n\nIn 1960, McClure sold his stake in Four'n Twenty to the Victorian arm of Peters Ice Cream. Peters' subsequent owner, Pacific Dunlop, sold the brand to Simplot in 1995, and Simplot in turn sold Four'n Twenty and several other bakery brands to Patties Foods in 2003. Patties expanded their Bairnsdale manufacturing facility and consolidated Four'n Twenty production into it, closing the Kensington plant. The new plant can produce 21,000 pies per hour, 24 hours per day.\n\nIn 2006, the brand announced that the Four'n Twenty pie would be sold on the American market.\n\nIn 2014, a halal certified \"Export\" variation of the Four'n Twenty meat pie sparked social media complaints and calls for a boycott of the product.\n\nIn 2017, to celebrate Four'n Twenty's 70th anniversary, the brand launched the Four'n Twenty Cheese and Vegemite Pie.\n\nLater in 2017, Four'n Twenty launched the Topper, a crispy breaded pocket with lasagna, macaroni and cheese, or chicken cordon bleu fillings.\n\nIn 2020, Four'n Twenty introduced a Vegan friendly meat-free pie to the market, said to have the same \"taste, texture and flavour\" as the original.\n"}
{"id": "1842958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842958", "title": "Rückert-Lieder", "text": "Rückert-Lieder\n\n\nThe first four songs were premiered on 29 January 1905 in Vienna, Mahler himself conducting, together with his \"Kindertotenlieder\" (also on poems by Rückert). The last song, \"Liebst du um Schönheit\", was not orchestrated by Mahler himself but by Max Puttmann, an employee of the first publisher, after Mahler's death.\n\nThe set of songs was not intended as a cycle: the Lieder were originally published independently from each other, connected only by the poetry and common themes. However, they were later published together and most often have been performed together and come to be known as the \"Rückert-Lieder\", although Mahler did set more texts of Rückert. Artists such as Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and Kathleen Ferrier have chosen their own order of the Lieder.\n\nThe songs were first published in 1910 by C.F. Kahnt of Leipzig as \"Sieben Lieder aus letzter Zeit\" (\"Seven Songs of Latter Days\"), together with \"Revelge\" and \"Der Tamboursg’sell\" (on poems from \"Des Knaben Wunderhorn\") in the order:\n\n\nUniversal Edition has published a score consisting only of the five Rückert settings.\n\nThe size and constitution of the orchestra varies from song to song, but the instruments required for performance of the complete set are as follows: two flutes, two oboes, oboe d'amore, English horn, two clarinets, two bassoons, contrabassoon, four horns, two trumpets, three trombones, bass tuba, timpani, celesta, harp, piano and strings.\n\nThe Austrian composer and conductor Gerhard Präsent has written two arrangements for small chamber ensemble:\nthe latter recorded by the ALEA Ensemble with the baritone Alexander Puhrer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842961", "title": "Lasalle (electoral district)", "text": "Lasalle (electoral district)\n\nLasalle (also known as Lasalle—Émard—Côte Saint-Paul) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Jacques-Cartier—Lasalle and Saint-Henri ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the City of LaSalle and a part of the City of Montreal bordering on that city.\n\nThe name of the electoral district was changed in 1973 to \"Lasalle—Émard—Côte Saint-Paul\".\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into a new Lasalle riding, and Verdun and Westmount ridings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was merged into LaSalle—Émard riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament\n"}
{"id": "1842965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842965", "title": "Saint-Maurice", "text": "Saint-Maurice\n\nSaint-Maurice is the name or part of the name of places. It refers to the legendary Saint Maurice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842967", "title": "The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding", "text": "The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding\n\nThe Adventure of the Christmas Pudding and a Selection of Entrées is a short story collection written by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 24 October 1960. It is the only Christie first edition published in the UK that contains stories with both Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple, the writer's two most famous detectives. It retailed in the UK for twelve shillings and sixpence (12/6) and comprises six cases. It was not published in the US although the stories it contains were published in other volumes there.\n\nPoirot is asked by a Mr Jesmond, who is acting as an intermediary to an eastern prince, to help that unfortunate young man with a problem he is having. The prince is due soon to be married to a cousin. \n\nOn his way to be married, he met an attractive but obviously dubious young woman, and rashly decided to have a last fling with her. The prince brought several expensive jewels with him to London for resetting by Cartier and one of them, a fabulous ruby, was stolen by the young woman. If it cannot be retrieved, a scandal will ensue and because of this, the police cannot be involved. The mystery can be solved at an old English country house called Kings Lacey where it will be arranged for Poirot to join a family there for their Christmas celebrations, supposedly to experience a typical English Christmas.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, at Kings Lacey, Poirot is told about the other members of their party by Mrs Lacey, his elderly host in the house. Joining them will be her husband, Colonel Lacey; Sarah, a granddaughter by their deceased son; Colin, a teenage grandson by their daughter; Michael, a friend of Colin's at school; Bridget who is of the same age as Colin and Michael and is a great niece of Mrs Lacey's; Diana, a young cousin of Mrs Lacey's; and David Welwyn who is a family friend. \n\nColonel and Mrs Lacey are perturbed by Sarah's relationship with a young rake called Desmond Lee-Wortley. They both think him unsuitable for their granddaughter and have invited him to join them for Christmas, in the hope that a few days' close contact with Sarah will show her how unsuitable he is, particularly in contrast to David Welwyn who has been friends with Sarah since childhood. Lee-Wortley is there with his sister who is recovering from an operation and is confined to her room, convalescing.\n\nColin, Michael, and Bridget are disappointed with Poirot as he does not meet their expectations of what a detective should look like. They hatch a plan to arrange a false murder for Poirot to detect with Bridget lying in the snow with blood as the \"dead\" body and footprints leading through the snow which is now falling and expected to grow heavier. They decide that they will put their plan into operation on Boxing Day, as Colonel Lacey would not like something of that nature to take place on Christmas Day itself. \n\nThat night, the Christmas tree is decorated and the party retire to their rooms for the night. On his pillow, Poirot finds a scrawled note which reads, \"DON'T EAT NONE OF THE PLUM PUDDING. ONE WHO WISHES YOU WELL.\" He is most puzzled.\n\nThe next day, the party eats a huge Christmas dinner, and then the elderly and partly retired butler brings in the Christmas pudding with great ceremony. The diners find the usual tokens in their portions, but the Colonel is annoyed and amazed when he almost chokes on a piece of red glass in his. Poirot takes the object and pockets it. Afterwards, Poirot visits the kitchen to compliment the daily cook, Mrs Ross, on the meal and particularly the pudding. She confesses that two were made, one for that day and one for New Year's Day, but the one for Christmas Day was dropped and the one for six days later substituted in its place. \n\nThat night, Poirot pretends to sleep in his bed, having avoided drinking a drugged coffee which had been handed to him by Lee-Wortley. A figure enters his room and conducts a fruitless search.\n\nThe next morning, the children carry out their \"murder\" plan and rouse Poirot from his bed to investigate the \"dead\" body but the planners get a shock when Poirot confirms that Bridget is indeed dead, Sarah and Lee-Wortley having joined them in the snow. Poirot invites the young man to check Bridget's pulse and he confirms there isn't one. \n\nPoirot points out that the footprints in the snow look like Lee-Wortley's and that in the dead girl's hand is the glass \"ruby\" from the pudding. Lee-Wortley is dumbfounded but, taking the glass, offers to ring for the police. Claiming to Diana that the phone is dead, he drives off to fetch them. \n\nPoirot takes the others in the house where he explains all.\nHe tells them that Lee-Wortley is a blackmailer and involved in other questionable matters. His supposed sister is the young woman who took the ruby from the eastern prince, and the two of them were tracked to Kings Lacey. \n\nBridget appears in the room — she is not dead, having worn a tourniquet on her arm when lying in the snow, and was in league with Poirot to trick Lee-Wortley. Poirot heard the children planning their \"murder\" through an open window and used this opportunity to take Lee-Wortley in. The \"ruby\" that Bridget held in the snow was a paste copy that Poirot brought with him to the house, and Lee-Wortley has taken this with him. Poirot supposes that he will go abroad, where he will be surprised when he tries to sell the false jewel. The real ruby was hidden by the two thieves in what they were told was the New Year pudding, and they were unaware of the accident that befell the pudding intended for Christmas Day. Lee-Wortley's \"sister\" overhears this and is furious that her co-conspirator has left her to face the music. She too flees the house. The mystery of who left the note on Poirot's pillow is solved when one of the housemaids confesses that she heard Lee-Wortley and his \"sister\" discussing getting Poirot out of the way and that something had been put in the pudding, causing her to think they planned to poison him. He rewards her by promising her a vanity box, and gets a kiss from Bridget under the mistletoe.\n\nPoirot's attention is caught by newspaper headlines which tell of the latest developments in the \"Spanish Chest Mystery\". At his request Miss Lemon prepares a précis of the case. A Major Charles Rich held a small party at his flat. The guests were a Mr and Mrs Clayton, a Mr and Mrs Spence and a Commander McLaren. At the last minute, Mr Clayton received an urgent telegram summoning him to Scotland that night on business and did not attend the party. Shortly before the party, he had a drink with McLaren at their club where he explained his coming absence and then before going to the station, took a taxi to Rich's to offer his apologies. Rich was out but Burgess – Rich's manservant – let him in and left Clayton to scribble a note in the sitting room while he carried on his preparations in the kitchen. Some ten minutes later, Rich returned and sent Burgess out on a short errand. Rich denies seeing Clayton at the flat nor did Burgess after leaving the man to write his note. The party went well. The next morning, Burgess noticed what seemed to be bloodstains on a rug that were seeping from a Spanish chest in the corner of the room. Opening it, the startled man found the stabbed body of Mr Clayton. Rich has now been arrested as the obvious suspect but Poirot sees a flaw in that he cannot see how or why Rich would calmly have gone to bed with a bleeding corpse in the chest. He is able to start investigating the case when a mutual friend recommends him to Mrs Clayton.\n\nMeeting the widow, he is struck by her beautiful innocence and realises quickly that she is attracted to Major Rich although she denies having an affair with him. She does admit that she wasn't in love with her closed and emotionless husband. He then sees each of the people involved in the party in turn who each agree about the charms of Mrs Clayton and the lack of emotion in her husband. Poirot has some suspicions of Burgess and goes to Rich's flat where the manservant shows him the scene of the crime. Inspecting the chest, Poirot finds some holes in the back and side and asks Burgess if anything in the room is noticeably different from the night of the party. He is told that a screen in the room was almost in front of the chest on the night. Remembering a reference to Othello used by Mrs Spence, Poirot realises the truth. Mr Clayton is Othello and his wife is Desdemona and the missing character of Iago is in fact Commander McLaren. He is in love with Mrs Clayton and, jealous of her attraction to Major Rich, planned the perfect crime whereby Clayton would die and Rich be accused of the murder. He made numerous subtle suggestions to Clayton about his wife's infidelity to the point where the man himself hatched a plan to fake a summons to Scotland and then found a reason to get into Rich's flat where he hid in the chest to observe what happened in his absence during the party. McLaren, playing records for the people to dance to, nipped behind the screen, opened the chest and stabbed his friend. Poirot feels certain that if the theory is put to McLaren he will confess.\n\nSir Reuben Astwell was murdered ten days previously at his country house, \"Mon Repos\", when he was violently hit on the back of the head with a club, and his nephew Charles Leverson has been arrested. Sir Reuben's wife, Lady Astwell, is convinced that the true criminal is the late man's secretary, Owen Trefusis, although she doesn't have a shred of evidence to back up this claim, relying instead on \"intuition\". She sends her young companion, Lily Margrave, to Poirot to employ him on the case and Poirot accepts, partly because he senses that Lily does not want Poirot to investigate the matter and that she has something to hide.\n\nArriving at \"Mon Repos\" Poirot speaks with the daunting and domineering Lady Astwell who tells him that Sir Reuben's brother and business partner, Victor, is also a guest in the house. Both brothers were equally as hot-tempered as the other and there were many rows and disagreements in the house, quite often involving Charles Leverson, with Sir Reuben often taking his temper out on the servants. Poirot interviews Parsons, the butler, who is one of the main witnesses in the case. His bedroom is on the ground floor and above him is the \"Tower Room\", Sir Reuben's sanctum. It is a lofty room with another room above reached by a spiral staircase and was originally an observatory built by a previous owner who was an astronomer. Sir Reuben was writing late at night and Parsons was asleep when he was awakened by the sound of Leverson returning home near midnight and letting himself in. He heard Leverson shouting at his uncle followed by a cry and a dull thud. About to go upstairs to see what was happening, Parsons then heard Leverson saying \"No harm done, luckily\" and then wishing his uncle goodnight. The next day, Sir Reuben was found dead. Speaking with Trefusis, the somewhat meek man admits that during his nine years employment, he was ruthlessly bullied by Sir Reuben. Trefusis shows Poirot the scene of the crime and the detective is puzzled as to why there is a bloodstain on the writing desk but Sir Reuben's body was found on the floor. Poirot tries an experiment with his valet, George, and realises that Sir Reuben was clubbed as he sat in his chair and remained in position afterwards as the chair is low-down in comparison to the desk.\n\nPoirot is more suspicious than ever of Lily Margrave's nervous demeanour and investigates the two local hotels to see if anyone was staying that night who left the hotel near midnight. He finds such a man – Captain Humphrey Naylor – and convinced there is a link with Lily sets a trap by putting his own blood on a scrap of the dress that she was wearing that night and telling her he found it in the Tower Room. She confesses that she is Naylor's sister and that he was swindled out of an African gold mine by Sir Reuben. Determined to find proof she agreed with her brother to take employment as Lady Astwell's companion and on the night in question, as her brother waited outside, she went to the Tower Room and saw Leverson leaving it. She then went into the room herself and found the body on the floor (she also rifled the safe and found the proof of the swindle her brother was after) but she is innocent of the crime of murder. Poirot believes her and also realises that Leverson was drunk on the night in question and his strange manner is as a result of starting to shout at his uncle, pushing his shoulder and then realising he was dead as the body slid to the floor – hence the thud that Parsons heard. He is innocent as well as his uncle was killed earlier than when he was in the room.\n\nPoirot persuades Lady Astwell to partake in hypnosis to recall events of the night of the murder. She confirms what she has already told the police – that she argued with her husband in the Tower Room some ten minutes prior to Leverson coming back home. She also manages to recall a subliminal memory of the normally-controlled Trefusis breaking a paper knife in anger earlier in the evening when again being shouted at by Sir Reuben (thus triggering her suspicions of the man) and a strange bulge in the curtain which covered the spiral staircase to the upper portion of the tower room. Poirot realises someone was already there when she and her husband were arguing.\n\nPoirot begins a game of nerves with everyone in the house, extending his stay and searching everyone's bedrooms, much to their annoyance. He also claims to find something on the spiral staircase which will seal the murderer's fate and leaves it in a box in his room while he makes a quick trip to London. He returns and tells the gathered household that Trefusis is indeed the murderer but the crime was not premeditated. The secretary had left something in the upper portion of the Tower Room and was fetching it when he found himself to be an unwilling witness to the row between Sir Reuben and Lady Astwell. After she left the room, he tried to sneak out but was spotted and received another barrage of abuse from his employer. After nine years of such treatment, he was unable to take any more and struck Sir Reuben down. The item Poirot found on the stairs was false but George, hidden in the wardrobe of Poirot's room, saw Trefusis steal the box in which the item was hidden when Poirot was in London. Lady Astwell is delighted – her intuition has proven correct.\n\nPoirot is eating out with a friend, Henry, and the conversation turns to people's habits. Henry eats regularly in the restaurant that they are in and he points out a white-bearded man as evidence of his theories. This bearded man eats the same meal there on Wednesday and Saturday and always orders much the same items as part of his three-course meal. The waitress brings their meals and sees Henry staring at the bearded man. She tells him that except the previous week he also came in on Monday and ordered things he'd never ordered before. Poirot's curiosity is piqued.\nThree weeks later, Poirot and Henry meet on a tube train and during the conversation Henry mentions that the bearded man has not been seen for a week. Henry's theory is that he has died and his change of habits on the Monday in question was as a result of being told bad news by his doctor. Poirot is not certain and starts to investigate. He easily finds the man's name from a list of recent deaths, and with a suitable introduction, meets the dead man's doctor. The man lived alone and died after an accidental fall downstairs at his house and was found near the milk bottles. He died at approximately 10.00 p.m. on that day and had eaten a meal a couple of hours before, at the same restaurant Poirot saw him in. He had a letter in the pocket. In response to the question of relatives, Poirot is told that the man had a twin brother, Anthony, who died on the afternoon of the same day as his brother after a long illness and that their only surviving relative is a nephew, George Lorrimer. Poirot is interested in the dead man's teeth and it is confirmed that they were very white for their age.\n\nAfter several calls of investigation, Poirot meets Lorrimer and accuses him of murder. Lorrimer's response proves the accusation has hit home.\n\nMeeting Henry again, Poirot explains: Anthony left a large fortune to his (dead, but estranged) brother. Lorrimer would eventually inherit but was impatient for the money. He actually murdered him, and then in disguise, he impersonated his uncle at the restaurant. However, he forgot to impersonate his uncle's eating habits and ordered different foods to those usually chosen, including blackberry tart for dessert. His uncle didn't eat food which stained the teeth whereas Lorrimer's teeth are stained.\n\nPoirot is summoned by letter to the home of reclusive and eccentric millionaire Benedict Farley. He is shown into the office of Farley's personal secretary, Hugo Cornworthy, but finds the millionaire himself alone in the darkened room. Poirot is made to sit in the light of a bright desk lamp and he is not impressed with the man, dressed in an old patchwork dressing gown and wearing thick glasses, feeling that he is stagy and a mountebank and doesn’t possess the charisma he would expect from such a rich and powerful person. Farley tells him that he is troubled by a nightly dream in which he is seated at his desk in the next room and at exactly 12.28 p.m., he takes out the revolver he keeps in his desk drawer and shoots himself. Various doctors have been unable to explain this to him, and he has now turned to the famous detective. Poirot wonders if he has enemies who would want to kill him, but Farley knows of no one. Poirot asks to see the room where the dream is set, but Farley refuses and Poirot therefore takes his leave. Before he goes Farley asks him for the letter he sent him to be returned, and Poirot hands it over but then realises he handed over the wrong one and Farley didn't notice. The correct letter is exchanged.\n\nA week later, an acquaintance, Dr Stillingfleet, phones Poirot and tells him that Farley has shot himself. Poirot goes to the house and meets the doctor, a police inspector, the dead man's second wife, his daughter from his first marriage, Joanna, and Hugo Cornworthy in whose office Poirot had had his meeting with Farley. Poirot tells them all of the reason for the previous visit. There is surprise on the part of some members of the party, but Mrs Farley was told by her husband of the dreams, and she confirms that he kept a revolver in his desk drawer. Her husband seems to have killed himself in precisely the way and at the time the dream foretold. Two visitors were outside his room waiting to see him. Farley spoke to them briefly to tell them he wouldn't be long and then went inside his room. After a considerable period of time, Cornworthy went in and found the dead body. No one could enter the room in the interim. There is a window with no climbable ledge and opposite the window is a blank wall. Poirot feels that the wall is important. He examines the room and finds a pair of extendable tongs which take his interest. He asks various questions of the people gathered there, one of which is to ascertain if Farley had bad eyesight without his glasses and he is told he had. Poirot has the solution: On his previous visit, he did not see Farley but a disguised Cornworthy. It was the secretary who sent the letter to Poirot and he gave the butler instructions to let him in and take him to his own office, not Farley's room. Wearing thick glasses, he was unable to see that Poirot had returned the wrong letter. The act put on by Cornworthy explains why Poirot wasn't as impressed by the man as he expected him to be. Cornworthy lured Farley to the window of his room by a distraction and then shot him by leaning out of his own window, overseen by no one because of the blank wall. He left the man dead for a short while and then went to \"find\" the body, planting the revolver there. His co-conspirator was his lover, Mrs Farley, who was the only other person who claimed that the dreams were real and that the revolver was kept in the desk drawer. She gives the game away by attempting to attack Poirot but is held back by Stillingfleet.\n\nRaymond West, the writer-nephew of Miss Marple, shows Horace Bindler, a literary critic, round the grounds of a local hall popularly known as 'Greenshaw's Folly'. It was built in the 1860s or 1870s by a man who had made an immense fortune but had little idea of architectural style, the house being a strange mish mash of buildings from around the world. Although strictly speaking they are trespassing, they are nevertheless welcomed by Miss Greenshaw, the elderly granddaughter of the man who built the house, when they come across her in her garden. She is a sharp, slightly shrewish woman who keeps her staff of two in order. They are Miss Cresswell, her companion, and Alfred, a young gardener who is constantly in dispute with Miss Cresswell. Miss Greenshaw takes advantage of the presence of the two visitors to ask them to witness the will she has just had drawn up. This leaves everything to Miss Cresswell \"in lieu\" of unpaid wages, as Miss Greenshaw is determined that nothing will go to her last living relative, her nephew, the son of a roguish man called Harry Fletcher who ran away with one of her sisters. They sign the will in the library where Miss Greenshaw shows them the copious diaries of her grandfather and expresses a wish to have them edited and published, but says she hasn't the time to undertake such a task. The two visitors take their leave, slightly puzzled by a comment from Miss Greenshaw to the effect that she thought they were policemen when she saw them in her grounds…\n\nWhen discussing the visit later in the company of Miss Marple, Joan West and her niece, Louise Oxley, the latter offers to undertake the work of editing the diaries while Miss Marple ponders the similarity between Miss Greenshaw and a Mr Naysmith who liked to give false impressions for fun, sometimes leading to trouble. Louise Oxley is employed to work on the diaries and begins work at Miss Greenshaw's house. The next day she is asked to invite the old lady's estranged nephew, Nathaniel Fletcher, to lunch, but is told not to inform Miss Cresswell. When told of this, Raymond suspects a reconciliation and a change in the will may ensue. The day after, on arriving at the house, Louise is struck by the resemblance between Alfred and a portrait of Miss Greenshaw's grandfather. She is working on the diaries at midday in her first-floor room when she hears a scream from the garden, and sees Miss Greenshaw staggering towards the house with an arrow embedded in her breast. When Louise tries to go down to help Miss Greenshaw as she collapses into the room below her, she finds that she is locked in. A few windows along, Miss Cresswell shouts that she is in the same predicament. A police constable who arrives a few minutes later frees the women from their respective rooms; he is followed by a police sergeant and then Nathaniel Fletcher, who arrives for his lunch appointment.\n\nThat evening, Inspector Welch interviews Raymond about the will he witnessed. Miss Marple guesses correctly that, contrary to what Raymond and Horace Bindler were told, Miss Cresswell was not the beneficiary to the will – Miss Greenshaw was playing her along, behaviour just like that of Mr Naysmith. The recipient of Miss Greenshaw's money is Alfred, who is probably a grandson of one of Miss Greenshaw's grandfather's illegitimate children, hence the resemblance in looks. Alfred is a member of an archery club but has a cast-iron alibi for the time of the murder. Miss Marple has a hypothesis: that the Miss Greenshaw that Louise met over her two days was actually Miss Cresswell in disguise. Miss Greenshaw was unconscious at the time that she was \"shot\" and the dying person on the lawn that Louise saw was Miss Cresswell with a false arrow. The first \"policeman\" who arrived at the house was really Nathaniel Fletcher, Miss Cresswell's accomplice. He claimed the companion had been locked in her room from which he freed her, whereas in reality she had been free to impersonate her employer and dupe Louise into being a witness to the \"crime\". The pair aimed to pin the blame on Alfred, not realising he had gone to the pub for his lunch earlier than usual and, therefore, had an alibi.\n\nWhen Miss Marple sees the rockery on which 'Miss Greenshaw' had been working has had plants pulled up as well as weeds, something a skilled gardener would never do, she realises her guess was correct. Alfred inherits 'Greenshaw's Folly'.\n\nMaurice Richardson of \"The Observer\" on 18 December 1960 said, \"She has never been at her best in the short form. These six are exceedingly far from masterpieces. Yet they engender a ghost of the old Christmas number euphoria, still, and may ease you during a plethora, or one of those Stations of the Cross on wheels, called railway journeys.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"A late collection, with several of the 'long-short' stories which suit Christie well. Less rigorous than her best, however, and the last story, \"Greenshaw's Folly,\" has a notable example of Miss Marple's habit of drawing solutions from a hat, with hardly a trace of why or wherefore.\"\n\n\nAll five of the Poirot stories were adapted for television as part of the series \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\". \"The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding\" was adapted under the American name \"The Theft of the Royal Ruby\". The story was slightly altered. The entire family, including the thieves, discovers the ruby in the pudding during Christmas dinner, and Poirot, pretending that it is a fake, takes it to safeguard it in his room. When Bridget is apparently murdered, Poirot places the real ruby, not a paste one, in the supposedly dead girl's hand. Lee-Wortley makes off with it, together with Iris Moffat, a girlfriend who has been pretending to be his sister Gloria. (Moffatt had previously stolen the jewel while on a date with Prince Farouk of Egypt.) Lee-Wortley does not abandon Moffatt to \"face the music\", as he does in the story. The two thieves try to make their getaway in a private plane which crashes into a field after a pursuit from David (who mistakenly believes Sarah is running off with Lee-Wortley). Poirot and the police are also there. The criminals, unhurt, are both arrested on the spot and the ruby is returned to the Prince. It is only afterwards that Poirot explains what has really been going on to the family. Bridget says goodbye to him at the end along with the others, but does not kiss him under the mistletoe.\n\n\"Greenshaw's Folly\" was adapted as part of the sixth series of \"Agatha Christie's Marple\", starring Julia McKenzie. The plot element of \"The Thumb Mark of St. Peter\" was woven into the adaptation.\n\n\"The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding\" was adapted for radio by BBC Radio 4 on 25 December 2004 with John Moffatt in the role of Poirot.\n\n\"The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding\" and \"Four and Twenty Blackbirds\" have been turned into Anime, on the series \"Agatha Christie's Great Detectives Poirot and Marple\" (2004), episode 19 and 20.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842969", "title": "Daily Radar", "text": "Daily Radar\n\nDaily Radar was a news aggregator and portal site for Future US's male-oriented content, including sports, film and television, and video games.\nDaily Radar started as a gaming website like IGN, GameSpy and GameSpot, and was later renamed and relaunched in the UK as \"GamesRadar\". The site was run by Imagine Media (now Future) and consisted of many editors that contributed to Imagine's print publications. A victim of the dot-com bubble burst, Imagine closed Daily Radar in 2001, weeks shy of E3. \"The Washington Post\" later noted that Daily Radar was among multiple \"popular video-game news sites\" to close in 2001, alongside CNET Gamecenter.\n\nIts name has since been the inspiration for the name of a satirical website, \"The Daily Raider\". It has also been the subject of jokes in the webcomic Penny Arcade.\n\nThe website was mentioned on the television show \"Whose Line is it Anyway?\" when one of the reviewers employed by the website was sung to by Wayne Brady in the style of Britney Spears.\n\nOn August 23, 2010, Daily Radar's website and all sub-sites (BallHype, ShowHype and several Daily Radar Blips sites) were replaced with a notice that they were \"no longer being supported.\" Today URLs for Daily Radar redirect to the website TechRadar instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842974", "title": "Stephen R. Marquardt", "text": "Stephen R. Marquardt\n\nDr. Stephen R. Marquardt is an American surgeon born and raised in Southern California. He received his medical degree from UCLA and completed his residency on Oral and Maxillofacial surgery at the UCLA Medical Center. His university appointments have included Assistant Research Oral Surgeon and Chief of Facial Imaging at UCLA, and professorships at Loma Linda University as well as the University of Southern California.\n\nHe retired from active surgical practice after 27 years and currently conducts his research on human attractiveness in Orange County, California. Marquardt is an active member of the Societies of Maxillofacial Surgeons.\n\nHe has developed what is called the \"Beauty Masks\" or \"Facial Masks\" which use mathematics to try to measure the ratios of beauty.\n\nPhysical attractiveness\n\n"}
{"id": "1842976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842976", "title": "Cape Breton Highlands—Canso", "text": "Cape Breton Highlands—Canso\n\nCape Breton Highlands—Canso was a federal electoral district in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from Antigonish—Guysborough, Inverness—Richmond and North Cape Breton and Victoria ridings.\n\nIt consisted initially of:\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Bras d'Or, Pictou—Antigonish—Guysborough and Sydney—Victoria ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842978", "title": "Bernard Fokke", "text": "Bernard Fokke\n\nBernard or Barend Fokke, sometimes known as Barend Fockesz, was a 17th-century Frisian-born captain for the Dutch East India Company. He was renowned for the uncanny speed of his trips from the Dutch Republic to Java. For example, in 1678 he traveled the distance in 3 months and 4 (or 10) days, delivering governor Rijckloff van Goens a stack of letters from which the traveling time could be confirmed. In later times a statue was erected of him on the small island Kuipertje, near the harbor of Batavia. The statue was destroyed by the English in 1808.\n\nHis fast trips caused people to suspect that he was aided by the Devil, and he is often considered to have been a model for the legendary captain of the Flying Dutchman, a ghostly ship doomed to sail the seas forever.\n\n"}
{"id": "1842979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842979", "title": "Cape Breton—East Richmond", "text": "Cape Breton—East Richmond\n\nCape Breton—East Richmond was a federal electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from Cape Breton South, Inverness—Richmond and North Cape Breton and Victoria ridings. It consisted initially of parts the Counties of Cape Breton and Richmond. It was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Bras d'Or and Sydney—Victoria.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842981", "title": "Cape Breton—The Sydneys", "text": "Cape Breton—The Sydneys\n\nCape Breton—The Sydneys was a federal electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from Cape Breton South. It consisted initially of part of the county of Cape Breton, including the city of Sydney. In 1987, it was redefined to consist of parts of the Counties of Inverness, Victoria and Cape Breton including the City of Sydney. It was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Sydney—Victoria.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842982", "title": "Tamara Mellon", "text": "Tamara Mellon\n\nTamara Mellon, OBE (née Tamara Yeardye; born 7 July 1967) is a British fashion entrepreneur who was the co-founder of luxury footwear brand Jimmy Choo, and then the eponymous luxury footwear brand Tamara Mellon.\n\nMellon founded her namesake brand with co-founder and CEO Jill Layfield and CDO Tania Spinelli in 2016.\n\nMellon was born Tamara Yeardye in London, on 7 July 1967. She is the daughter of Tom Yeardye, a stunt double for Rock Hudson, and Ann (Davis) Yeardye, a former Chanel model. Mellon is the eldest of three siblings. Her current surname stems from the time when she was married to Matthew Mellon, an American businessman and member of the prominent Mellon family.\n\nIn 1976, Mellon's family relocated to Beverly Hills, in a home next door to Nancy Sinatra. Mellon alternated summers between California and the UK. She attended two independent girls' schools in Berkshire—Marist School and Heathfield St Mary's School—before attending finishing school in Switzerland at the now-defunct Institut Alpin Videmanette.\n\nMellon began her career at Phyllis Walters Public Relations, \"Mirabella\", and in 1991 was employed as an accessories editor and assistant to Sarajane Hoare at British \"Vogue\".\n\nMellon approached bespoke shoe-maker Mr Jimmy Choo with the idea of launching a ready-to-wear shoe company. As co-founder of the Jimmy Choo company, Mellon secured funding from her father for the creation of her business, and sourced factories in Italy. In addition, she set up an office in Italy to handle production, quality control and shipping. By 2001, Jimmy Choo Ltd had over 100 wholesale clients, including Harrods, Harvey Nichols, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, and the collections accounted for over 50% of the production of several of these factories.\n\nThe first Jimmy Choo store, on Motcombe Street in London, was followed by stores in New York, Las Vegas and Beverly Hills. In April 2001, Jimmy Choo Ltd partnered with Equinox Luxury Holdings Ltd. Acquiring Mr Choo's share of the ready-to-wear business, Equinox's Chief Executive, Robert Bensoussan, became CEO of Jimmy Choo Ltd, introducing handbag and small leather goods collections.\n\nIn November 2004, with the company valued at £101 million, Hicks Muse announced the majority acquisition of Jimmy Choo Ltd. Mellon made an estimated £85 million from her eventual sale of Jimmy Choo in 2011.\n\nIn 2007, Mellon appeared on the Sunday Times Rich List, where she was ranked as the 751st richest person in the UK, with an estimated wealth of £99 million. She was also ranked as the 64th richest woman in Britain.\n\nIn 2013 she stated that her eponymous luxury shoe brand would not buy from companies that lacked a female employee in an executive role.\n\nMellon's shoe and apparel brand filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code in December 2015. The filing stated that the company has assets of between $1 million and $10 million and also has between 100 and 199 creditors who are owed between $1 million and $10 million. She was forced to file under Section 11 following pressure from angry investors, predicted to lose approximately £2.7 million. Mellon was subsequently bailed out by American equity firm NEA, with a $10 million cash injection.\n\nIn January 2016, Mellon's former backers filed an objection to the restructuring plans under American bankruptcy protection laws. They stated that these plans allowed her, her fiancé and a fund to gain control of the new company, leaving former financers with no repayment. The objection includes accusations of mismanagement and abuse of the company, including employing a life coach on the payroll and spending $100,000 on tickets to The Met Gala in New York. The US Department of Justice also filed a formal objection.\n\nIn September 2016, it was revealed that Mellon is suing Jimmy Choo, alleging that the company had blocked her from using luxury shoemakers in Florence, Italy to produce her own line.\n\nMellon is a member of the New Enterprise Council, a group of entrepreneurs who advise the Conservative Party on policies related to the needs of business.\n\nOn 9 November 2010, she was named as a \"global trade envoy for Britain\" by the British Government, intended to have a \"roving brief to promote the country’s booming fashion industry overseas\".\n\nMellon has served on the Board of Directors for Revlon since 2008. She is also a patron of the Elton John AIDS Foundation.\n\nIn the 2010 Birthday Honours, Mellon was appointed as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to the fashion industry.\n\nIn 2014, Tamara Mellon received the Women's Entrepreneurship Day Pioneer Award in recognition for her achievements in fashion.\n\nIn 2013, Mellon published the autobiography 'In My Shoes' in which she details her rise to success and her partnership with shoe-designer Jimmy Choo. In an interview about the book with Vanity Fair, she spoke of the challenges of designing shoes for the Oscar Season. Several media publications reported on the discussion in her book about her drug-addiction issues, specifically her problems with cocaine. Subsequent news coverage also focused on her stint in rehab, party lifestyle and being fired from Vogue Magazine. Mellon's battle with alcohol addiction is also well documented and she met her first husband, Matthew, at Alcoholics Anonymous. They later divorced and she wrote a number of articles about the dramatic details of her marriage, referencing \"snorting her way through alpine ranges of cocaine\".\n\nIn 2015 she announced her engagement to Michael Ovitz in a magazine interview with HELLO! It has since been revealed that Ovitz is still legally married to his first wife Judy. In a 2016 The Sunday Times article, she referred to the situation as \"complicated\".\n"}
{"id": "1842984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842984", "title": "List of radio stations in West Virginia", "text": "List of radio stations in West Virginia\n\nThe following is a list of FCC-licensed radio stations in the U.S. state of West Virginia, which can be sorted by their call signs, frequencies, cities of license, licensees, and programming formats.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842987", "title": "Halifax—East Hants", "text": "Halifax—East Hants\n\nHalifax—East Hants was a federal electoral district in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979. The riding was created in 1966 from parts of Colchester—Hants riding. It consisted of the Municipality of East Hants in the county of Hants, and parts of the county of Halifax and the city of Halifax.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed between Annapolis Valley—Hants, Halifax and Halifax West ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nBy-election On Mr. McCleave's resignation, 9 December 1977\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843001", "title": "Bonavista—Trinity—Conception", "text": "Bonavista—Trinity—Conception\n\nBonavista—Trinity—Conception was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 2003.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Bonavista—Twillingate and Trinity—Conception ridings.\nIt was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Avalon, Bonavista—Exploits and Random—Burin—St. George's ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the provincial districts of Trinity North, Trinity South, Bay de Verde, Carbonear, Harbour Grace and Port de Grave, and part of the provincial district of Bonavista South.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843004", "title": "Coat of arms of Uganda", "text": "Coat of arms of Uganda\n\nThe coat of arms of Uganda was adopted three weeks before the proclamation of independence by the Uganda Legislative Council. On 1 October 1962 the arms were approved by Governor of Uganda Walter Coutts, and formally established by law on 9 October.\n\nThe shield and spears represent the willingness of the Ugandan people to defend their country. There are three images on the shield: those on top represent the waves of Lake Victoria and Lake Albert; the sun in the centre represents the many days of brilliant sunshine Uganda enjoys; and the traditional drum at the bottom is symbolic of dancing, and the summoning of people to meetings and ceremony.\n\nThe above explanation, about the symbolism of the drum, is a distortion that came about after the bloody 1966 national crisis when the Prime Minister of the day, Milton Obote, made a violent military attack on the king of the Kingdom of Buganda in central Uganda, Edward Mutesa II, who was the ceremonial president of the state at the time. The following year, 1967, the nation's constitution was abrogated and replaced with a new one which abolished the country's ancient monarchies—the kingdoms of Buganda, Bunyoro, Ankole, Toro, and the Principality of Busoga, turning Uganda into a republic and making Milton Obote president with unlimited executive powers.\n\nBefore Obote's rule, the drum was symbolic of royalty and the authority of Uganda's kings. On a related note, the kings of Uganda were the first to use the traditional lentil shaped African shield in their heraldic arms.\n\nThe shield is flanked on the heraldic left side by a crested crane (\"Balearica regulorum gibbericeps\"), a subspecies of the grey-crowned crane and the national bird of Uganda. On the right is the Ugandan kob (\"Kobus kob thomasi\"), a subspecies of kob that here represents abundant wildlife.\n\nThe shield stands on a green mound, representing fertile land, and directly above a representation of the River Nile. Two main cash crops, coffee and cotton, flank the river. At the bottom is the national motto: \"For God and My Country\".\n\nThe coat of arms of Uganda is described as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843005", "title": "Gander—Twillingate", "text": "Gander—Twillingate\n\nGander—Twillingate was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Bonavista—Twillingate and Grand Falls—White Bay—Labrador ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Bonavista—Trinity—Conception and Gander—Grand Falls ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the provincial districts of Gander, Lewisporte, Twillingate, Fogo and Bonavista North, and the parts of the provincial districts of Green Bay, Bonavista South and Fortune Bay not included in the electoral districts of Grand Falls White Bay-Labrador, Bonavista-Trinity-Conception and Burin-Burgeo.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843008", "title": "Humber—St. George's—St. Barbe", "text": "Humber—St. George's—St. Barbe\n\nHumber—St. George's—St. Barbe was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 from parts of Grand Falls—White Bay—Labrador and Humber—St. George's ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1976 when it was redistributed into Burin—St. George's and Humber—St. Barbe ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the provincial districts of Port au Port, Humber East, Humber West, St. Barbe South and St. Barbe North, and that part of the provincial district of St. George's not included in the electoral district of Burin-Burgeo.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843011", "title": "Sandra Choi", "text": "Sandra Choi\n\nSandra Choi is a British businesswoman and fashion designer. She is the creative director of J. Choo Limited. She is the niece of Jimmy Choo's wife, Rebecca.\n\nChoi was born on the Isle of Wight and educated in Hong Kong before returning to London as a teenager to finish her secondary school education. During this time, Choi, who has been described in UK media as British Asian, went to work with her uncle, Jimmy Choo, who was then a couture shoemaker based in the East End of London. Passionate about turning her apprenticeship into a career as a designer, Choi attended the prestigious Central St Martins School where she studied for a degree in Fashion Design whilst continuing work as Choo's protégé. At his side, Choi perfecting the art of creating couture shoes: designing, cutting patterns, stitching, fitting and constructing lasts. Enchanted by the business, Choi eventually abandoned her studies so that she could devote herself full-time to design and the management of the atelier.\n\nChoi was appointed Creative Director of J. Choo Limited at its inception in 1996, working in conjunction with Tamara Mellon OBE. The company's first J. Choo Limited store was opened in 1996 on Motcomb Street in London complementing distribution in selected department stores.\n\nWith a strategy to expanding internationally, the company established a retail presence in the United States with its first store in New York City in 1998, followed by Los Angeles in 1999. Using the store's LA foothold to cater to Hollywood celebrities, Choi worked with celebrities and their stylists from a hotel atelier creating Jimmy Choo shoes for award show dressing. The red carpet proved to be the ideal runway for shoes and then handbags, as actresses including Marion Cotillard, Kate Winslet, Halle Berry, Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett and Natalie Portman all took their paces wearing Jimmy Choo.\n\nAccolades followed with J. Choo Limited awarded 2008 'Designer Brand of the Year' from the British Fashion Council, the 2008 ‘ACE Brand of the Year' from the Accessory Council and the 2008 'Brand of the Year' from Footwear News in New York. J. Choo Limited was bought by private equity group Equinox in 2001, who began a ten-year store opening programme which continued under the ownership of Lion Capital from 2004 and TowerBrook Capital Partners LP from 2007. In 2011, J. Choo Limited was acquired by Labelux, the fashion holdings arm of JAB Holdings, which was renamed JAB Luxury in July 2014.\n\nOver the course of the various private equity transactions, Jimmy Choo and Tamara Mellon OBE left the company, with Sandra remaining Creative Director throughout. As her responsibilities increased, with the addition of bags, fragrances, eyewear and the launch of the men's business, Sandra was named Sole Creative Director in 2013.\n\nIn September 2019, Choi discussed the redesigned Jimmy Choo brand logo with media. In January 2020, she collaborated with Kaia Gerber on a new combat-style boot with 15 percent of sales donated to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.\n\nChoi is married to Tamburlaine Gorst, son of Conservative politician Sir John Michael Gorst.\n"}
{"id": "1843013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843013", "title": "Burin—St. George's", "text": "Burin—St. George's\n\nBurin—St. George's was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 2004.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Burin—Burgeo, Humber—St. George's—St. Barbe ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 2003 when it was merged into Random—Burin—St. George's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843016", "title": "First National Bank Field", "text": "First National Bank Field\n\nFirst National Bank Field is a Minor League Baseball park located in downtown Greensboro, North Carolina. The home of the Greensboro Grasshoppers of the Class A South Atlantic League, it opened on April 3, 2005. The park is on the block bounded by Bellemeade, Edgeworth, Smith, and Eugene Streets.\n\nThe stadium's seating capacity is 7,499 people, 5,300 of which are chair-back seats. The stadium was built to Double-A standards and has room for future expansion. In 2017, the Grasshoppers had the best average attendance in the South Atlantic League and the highest total attendance in the league.\n\nThe Grasshoppers moved to First National Bank Field after the 2004 season, leaving their previous home of many decades, World War Memorial Stadium. Lindsay Street, which once cut through the property of the new park, now T's into Eugene, and also provides a direct path to the old stadium. Greensboro's downtown stadium opened its gates to a crowd of 8,540 on April 3, 2005, with a Grasshoppers exhibition game against the Florida Marlins, who were their Major League Baseball affiliate. In the first regular season game, the Grasshoppers defeated the Hickory Crawdads, 3–2, in front of 8,017 fans.\n\nOn May 5, 2009, it was announced that the 2010 ACC Baseball Tournament would be held at the facility, a change from the discussed location of Fenway Park in Boston, due to economic reasons. Florida State won the tournament.\n\nFrom May 23 to 27, 2012, the park hosted the 2012 ACC Baseball Tournament, which was won by Georgia Tech. During this time, the University of North Carolina took on North Carolina State University in a game that broke the record for attendance at a college baseball game in the state of North Carolina. It was also the largest crowd ever for an ACC baseball game. The attendance, 10,229, was the largest crowd in the history of First National Bank Field.\n\nA 30-foot-wide open concrete concourse wraps around the ballpark, giving fans the opportunity to see the game from any vantage point in the stadium. Fans are served at three major concession stands with 36 points of sale. Other amenities include a grandstand outdoor sports bar and a kid-safe play park. There are 16 luxury suites, 26 grandstand boxes, picnic areas, and a grandstand party deck in the left field corner.\n\nThe ballpark opened in 2005 as First Horizon Park. Memphis, Tennessee-based First Horizon National Corporation was awarded the naming rights on December 7, 2004, for 10 years. On November 7, 2007, it was formally announced that locally based NewBridge Bank had acquired the ballpark's naming rights, after First Horizon National Corporation ended their agreement with the Grasshoppers. The deal runs through the 2017 season. However, Yadkin Bank's acquisition of NewBridge Bank resulted in a name change for the ballpark, effective in the 2016 season. FNB Corporation of Pittsburgh made an offer for Yadkin Bank in 2016. The team and FNB Corporation announced March 6, 2017, that First National Bank will continue the NewBridge sponsorship, and the stadium's new name for the 2017 season would be First National Bank Field.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843017", "title": "Humber—Port au Port—St. Barbe", "text": "Humber—Port au Port—St. Barbe\n\nHumber—Port au Port—St. Barbe (formerly known as Humber—St. Barbe) was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in the 1976 redistribution as \"Humber—St. Barbe\" from parts of Humber—St. George's—St. Barbe riding. The name of the electoral district was changed to \"Humber—Port au Port—St. Barbe\" in 1978.\n\nIt was abolished in the 1987 redistribution when it was redistributed into Burin—St. George's and Humber—St. Barbe—Baie Verte ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843028", "title": "Blainville—Deux-Montagnes", "text": "Blainville—Deux-Montagnes\n\nBlainville—Deux-Montagnes (formerly known as Deux-Montagnes) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997.\n\nThe riding was created as \"Deux-Montagnes\" in 1976 from parts of Argenteuil—Deux-Montagnes and Terrebonne ridings. It was renamed \"Blainville—Deux-Montagnes\" in 1977. The electoral district was abolished in 1996, and divided between Saint-Eustache—Sainte-Thérèse and Terrebonne—Blainville ridings.\n\nBlainville—Deux-Montagnes initially consisted of the cities of Deux-Montagnes and Sainte-Thérèse; the towns of Blainville, Boisbriand, Lorraine, Rosemère, Saint Eustache and Sainte-Marthe-surle-Lac; and the village municipality of Pointe-Calumet and the parish municipality of Saint-Joseph-du-Lac in the county of Deux-Montagnes. In 1987, it was redefined to consist of the towns of Blainville, Boisbriand, Deux-Montagnes, Lorraine, Rosemère, Saint-Eustache, Sainte-Marthe-sur-le-Lac and Sainte-Thérèse.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843033", "title": "Jonquière (electoral district)", "text": "Jonquière (electoral district)\n\nJonquière is a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 2004, and again from the 2015 election onward.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Lapointe and Montmorency ridings. It was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Jonquière—Alma and Chicoutimi—Le Fjord ridings. It was re-created during the 2012 electoral redistribution from parts of Jonquière—Alma, Chicoutimi—Le Fjord and Roberval—Lac-Saint-Jean.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament}:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843037", "title": "Laval-des-Rapides", "text": "Laval-des-Rapides\n\nLaval-des-Rapides is a district in Laval, Quebec, Canada. It was a separate city until the municipal mergers on August 6, 1965.\n\nThe neighbourhood is delimited on the north, north-west and west by Chomedey, on the east and north-east by Pont-Viau and on the south by the Rivière des Prairies.\n\nCommission scolaire de Laval operates French-language public schools.\n\nSir Wilfrid Laurier School Board operates English-language public schools.\nAll sections of Laval are zoned to Laval Junior Academy and Laval Senior Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843039", "title": "100 Rifles", "text": "100 Rifles\n\n100 Rifles is a 1969 western directed by Tom Gries and starring Jim Brown, Burt Reynolds and Raquel Welch. It is based on Robert MacLeod's 1966 novel \"The Californio\". The film was shot in Spain. The original music score was composed by Jerry Goldsmith.\n\nIn 1912 Sonora, Mexico, Arizona lawman Lyedecker chases Yaqui Joe, a half-Yaqui, half-white bank robber who has stolen $6,000. Both men are captured by the Mexican general Verdugo.\n\nLyedecker learns that Joe used the loot to buy 100 rifles for the Yaqui people, who are being repressed by the government. Lyedecker is not interested in Joe's motive, and intends to recover the money and apprehend Joe to further his career.\n\nThe two men escape a Mexican firing squad and flee to the hills, where they are joined by Sarita, a beautiful Indian revolutionary. Sarita has a vendetta against the soldiers, who murdered her father. The fugitives become allies.\n\nLeading the Yaqui against Verdugo's forces, they ambush and derail the General's train and overcome his soldiers in an extended firefight.\n\n\nThe film was the first of a four-picture deal producer Martin Schwartz had with 20th Century Fox. It was based on a novel by Robert McLeod. The script was originally written by Clair Huffaker.\n\nTom Gries signed to direct following his successful feature debut with \"Will Penny\". Gries wrote two further drafts of the script himself. \"He says he's not a carpenter,\" reported the \"Los Angeles Times\". \"He says he can't work with a script that he doesn't believe in himself.\" Huffaker later requested his name be taken off the credits and replaced with a pseudonym, \"Cecil Hanson,\" because \"the finished product... bears absolutely no resemblance to my original script.\"\n\nThe leads were given to Raquel Welch (Gries: \"in some situations, this woman is just a piece of candy but I think she will prove in this film that she can act as well\"), Jim Brown (\"he's a great actor with a lot of appeal\", said Gries), and Burt Reynolds.\n\n\"I'd like to bring a style to the screen that means something to the cats out on the street,\" said Brown. \"It's an image I want to portray of a strong black man in breaking down social taboos. In \"100 Rifles\"... it's a different thing for a black man to be a lawman, get the woman and ride away into the sunset.\"\n\nIt was the fifth film Burt Reynolds had made in a row. The first four — \"Shark!\", \"Fade In\", \"Impasse\" and \"Whiskey Renegades\" — had not been released when \"100 Rifles\" was being shot.\n\n\"I was playing Yaqui Joe, supposedly an Indian with a moustache,\" said Reynolds. \"Raquel had a Spanish accent that sounded like a cross between Carmen Miranda and Zasu Pitts. Jimmy Brown was afraid of only two things in the entire world: one was heights, the other was horses. And he was on a horse fighting me on a cliff. It just didn't work.\"\n\nThe film was shot in Almeria, Spain, in order to save money. \"It's a tough, physical picture,\" says Gries, who was hospitalised for three days during the shoot when he came down with typhus.\n\n\"I play a half breed but... I send it up,\" said Reynolds. \"I make it seem like the other 'half' of the guy is from Alabama. I play it nasty, dirty, funky. I look like a Christmas tree — wrist bands, arm bands. At the beginning I even wore these funky spurs. But every time I walked I couldn't hear dialog.\"\n\nThere were a number of press reports that Brown and Welch clashed during filming. Brown later said:\nThe thing I wanted to avoid most was any suggestion that I was coming on to her. So I withdrew. If I'd tried to socialise, we'd have had problems. You know, Raquel is married too and out of respect for her husband I wanted to deal with Raquel through him... She was so suspicious and concerned that we were there to steal something away, or something. You can get very hung up on who's going to get the close ups and so on... [Burt Reynolds] was usually a stabilising influence [between the stars]... He's a heck of a cat. He had various talks with Raquel and tried to assure her that nothing was going on, that we weren't trying to steal anything.\nWelch later confirmed the tension:\nIt was an atmosphere. And it was really, in all seriousness, as ambiguous as hell. I don't know why it happened and I don't think Jimmy knows why it happened... My attitude on a film has always been, once it goes I'm interested only in my job. I'm not interested in asserting myself on a picture. Because it means too much to me.\n\"I spent the entire time refereeing fights between Jim Brown and Raquel Welch,\" said Reynolds. He elaborated:\nIt started because they were kind of attracted to each other. After a while they both displayed a little temperament, but don't forget we were out in the middle of the bloody desert with the temperature at 110. Of course, I don't think they'll ever work together again. The critics have really been knocking those two — murdering them — but as far as I know no one ever said they were Lunt and Fontanne. Jim is the most honest man I know... And Raquel — one of the gutsiest broads I know, physically. She did all her own stunts. There's also a performance in there somewhere.\nRaquel Welch later said she \"was the baloney in a cheesecake factory\" on that film. \"I wanted to keep up with all the action with the boys.\" She was sorry Tom Gries \"wanted to get all the sex scenes (with Jim Brown) in the can in the first day. There was no time for icing — and it made it difficult for me.\" She says Brown \"was very forceful and I am feisty. I was a little uncomfortable with too much male aggression. But — it turned out to be great exploitation for the film, now as you look back. It broke new ground.\"\n\nThe film opened on March 26, 1969 and grossed $301,315 in its first 5 days from nine cities.\n\nAccording to Fox records the film required $8,225,000 in rentals to break even and by 11 December 1970 had made $6,900,000 so made a loss to the studio.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating based on 2 reviews, with an average rating of 4/10.\n\nQuentin Tarantino said the \"mediocre final product still seems like a shamefully wasted opportunity (I mean Jesus Christ, how do you fuck up a movie starring Jim Brown, Burt Reynolds and Raquel Welch?).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843050", "title": "Meramec State Park", "text": "Meramec State Park\n\nMeramec State Park is a public recreation area located near Sullivan, Missouri, about 60 miles from St. Louis, along the Meramec River. The park has diverse ecosystems such as hardwood forests and glades. There are over 40 caves located throughout the park, the geology of which is a mixture of limestone and dolomite. The most famous is Fisher Cave, located near the campgrounds. The park borders the Meramec Conservation Area.\n\nThe park was acquired by the state in 1927, then saw active development by the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) between 1933 and 1935. At that time, trails were laid out and numerous buildings constructed including a dining hall, recreation hall, concession building, and shelters.\n\nIn the late 1970s, as part of the Meramec Basin Project, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers began work on a dam in the park to impound the river. The resulting reservoir would have permanently flooded much of the park and imperiled many different species, including the endangered Indiana bat. However, in response to direct citizen action against the dam, the project was halted, marking a victory for the environmental movement.\n\nThree surviving CCC-era structures were added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1985: \n\nIn 1991, the Meramec State Park Beach Area Historic District was also added to the list. The historic district encompasses four contributing buildings, three contributing structures, and one contributing object. They include the picnic shelter, stone restrooms, water fountain, pump house, and stone steps\n\nThe bottom southeast corner of the park includes the old Hamilton Ironworks, after which the Ozarks fiddle tune Hamilton Ironworks is named. The Hamilton Iron Works Trail has interpretive signage about the history the blast furnace that once operated \"around the clock, seven days a week.\"\n\nIn addition to cave tours, the park offers hiking trails, fishing, swimming and boating on the Meramec River, and a campground. The visitor center houses an exhibit hall with a video presentation and information about the history and ecology of the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843056", "title": "Saint-Henri—Westmount", "text": "Saint-Henri—Westmount\n\nSaint-Henri—Westmount (formerly known as Westmount) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1997.\n\n\"Saint-Henri\" was created in 1966 from parts of Mount Royal, Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Outremont—St-Jean, Saint-Antoine—Westmount, and St. Lawrence—St. George ridings.\n\nIn 1978, it was renamed \"Saint-Henri—Westmount\". In 1996, it was abolished when it was merged into LaSalle—Émard riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\nBy-election: Resignation of David Berger, 28 December 1994\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843057", "title": "Saint-Léonard—Anjou", "text": "Saint-Léonard—Anjou\n\nSaint-Léonard—Anjou (formerly known as Saint-Léonard) was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 as \"Saint-Léonard\" riding from parts of Maisonneuve—Rosemont, Mercier and Saint-Michel ridings. It consisted of the City of Saint-Léonard, the Town of Anjou, and part of the City of Montreal.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Anjou—Rivière-des-Prairies, Papineau and Saint-Léonard ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843062", "title": "Beaches (electoral district)", "text": "Beaches (electoral district)\n\nBeaches was a federal electoral district in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThe riding was created in 1976, from parts of Broadview, Greenwood and York East ridings.\n\nIt was created in 1976 with the following boundaries - from Leslie Street where it meets Lake Ontario, the boundary proceeded north along Leslie to Queen Street East. It went west along Queen to Jones Avenue then north along Jones to Gerrard Street East, east along Gerrard and then north on Greenwood Avenue to the city limits. It followed the city limits east to Victoria Park Avenue and then south following Victoria Park back to the lake.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Beaches—Woodbine and Broadview—Greenwood ridings.\n"}
{"id": "1843064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843064", "title": "Brampton—Georgetown", "text": "Brampton—Georgetown\n\nBrampton–Georgetown (also known as Brampton–Halton Hills) was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThe riding was represented from 1979 to 1988 by the Honourable John McDermid of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nIt was created as \"Brampton–Halton Hills\" riding in 1976 from parts of Halton, Mississauga and Peel—Dufferin—Simcoe ridings. It was renamed \"Brampton–Georgetown\" in 1977. It consisted of city of Brampton, and the northern part of the Town of Halton Hills.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Brampton and Halton—Peel ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843068", "title": "Durham—Northumberland", "text": "Durham—Northumberland\n\nDurham—Northumberland is a former federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Northumberland—Durham and Ontario ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Durham and Victoria—Haliburton ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843069", "title": "Erie (electoral district)", "text": "Erie (electoral district)\n\nErie was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Lincoln and Welland ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the Townships of Wainfleet and West Lincoln, the City of Port Colborne and the Towns of Fort Erie and Pelham.\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to include the part of the City of Welland lying south of a line drawn from west to east along the Welland River, east along Broadway Avenue, north along Regional Road No. 68, east along Ontario Road, and east in a straight line to Ridge Road.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Erie—Lincoln, Niagara Centre and Niagara Falls ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843075", "title": "Hann", "text": "Hann\n\nHann may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843076", "title": "Lambton—Middlesex", "text": "Lambton—Middlesex\n\nLambton—Middlesex is a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Huron—Middlesex, Lambton—Kent, Middlesex—London—Lambton and Sarnia—Lambton ridings.\n\nIt was initially defined as consisting of\n\n(a) the County of Lambton, excluding the Townships of Moore and Sarnia and any part of the county west of them, and the Township of Moore, and any part of the county north of it, Indian Reserve No. 46, and \n(b) the part of the County of Middlesex west of the Townships of Biddulph, London and Westminster.\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of\n\n(a) the County of Lambton excluding the City of Sarnia, the Village of Point Edward, the townships of Moore and Sarnia, Sarnia Indian Reserve No. 45 and Walpole Island Indian Reserve No. 46; and\n(b) that part of the County of Middlesex west of and including the Townships of McGillivray, Lobo and Delaware.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Elgin—Middlesex—London, Lambton—Kent—Middlesex, London West, Perth—Middlesex, and Sarnia—Lambton ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843081", "title": "Shōdoshima", "text": "Shōdoshima\n\nThe island is famous as the setting for the novel \"Twenty-Four Eyes\", and its subsequent film adaptations. The island was the first area of Japan to successfully grow olives, and is sometimes known as \"Olive Island\".\n\nShōdoshima is part of Kagawa Prefecture and is located north of the prefectural capital Takamatsu. It has an area of and a coastline of . It is the 19th largest island in Japan, and the second largest in the Seto Inland Sea.\n\nShōdoshima is home to the world's narrowest strait, meters at its narrowest.\n\nFrequent ferries run to the island from Takamatsu, Himeji, Teshima and Okayama. Ferries run infrequently to Osaka and Kōbe as well.\n\nShōdoshima was once known as Azuki-shima and was part of Kibi (later Bizen) Province, given to Sanuki Province, and finally made part of Kagawa prefecture.\n\nShōdoshima is a popular destination for domestic tourism in Japan. In addition to natural features such as the Dobuchi Strait, the Angel Road, Shōdoshima Olive Park and the , Shōdoshima is famous as the setting for the antiwar novel , written by the native author Sakae Tsuboi and later turned twice into a film (1954 and 1987), as well as a television special. The island is the birthplace of two other distinguished writers: Sakae's husband the poet Shigeji Tsuboi and the novelist and short-story writer Denji Kuroshima. All three were prominent participants in the proletarian literary movement, an important and politically radical current within modern Japanese literature.\n\nShōdoshima is also known for its olives, soy sauce, wild monkeys, and beaches. In addition, tourists are attracted to a miniature version of the 88-temple Shikoku Pilgrimage.\n\nThe island is also famous for being the first in Japan to successfully cultivate olives. Olive trees proliferate on the island and olive-related merchandise is quite popular with tourists. Milos, Greece is Shōdoshima's sister island.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843082", "title": "Lanark—Renfrew—Carleton", "text": "Lanark—Renfrew—Carleton\n\nLanark–Renfrew–Carleton (also known as Lanark and Renfrew) was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1988. It was located in the province of Ontario.\n\nThis riding was created as \"Lanark and Renfrew\" in 1966 from parts of Carleton, Lanark, Renfrew North and Renfrew South ridings.\n\nLanark and Renfrew was initially defined to consist of:\n\n(a) in the County of Carleton, the Townships of Fitzroy, Huntley, March and Torbolton;\n\n(b) in the County of Lanark, the Townships of Beckwith, Darling, Drummond, Lanark, Pakenham and Ramsay; and\n\n(c) in the County of Renfrew, the Townships of Admaston, Bagot, Blythfield, Bromley, Horton, McNab, Ross and Westmeath.\n\nThe name of the electoral district was changed in 1970 to Lanark–Renfrew–Carleton. \nIn 1976, it was redefined to consist of\n\n(a) in the Regional Municipality of Ottawa-Carleton, the Townships of March and West Carleton;\n\n(b) the County of Lanark, including the Town of Smiths Falls; and\n\n(c) in the County of Renfrew, the Townships of Bagot and Blythfield and McNab.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Lanark–Carleton and Renfrew.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843085", "title": "Mississauga North", "text": "Mississauga North\n\nMississauga North was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Halton and Mississauga ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the part of the City of Mississauga, Ontario, lying north of a line drawn (from west to east) along Highway No. 5, Cawthra Road, and the Queen Elizabeth Way.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Mississauga East, Mississauga West and Mississauga South ridings.\n\nThe riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843087", "title": "London—Middlesex", "text": "London—Middlesex\n\nLondon—Middlesex (also known as Middlesex East riding) was a federal electoral district that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario.\n\nMiddlesex East riding was created in 1976 from parts of Huron—Middlesex, London East and Middlesex—London—Lambton ridings. It initially consisted of the Townships of Biddulph, London, North Dorchester, Westminster and West Nissouri (excluding the Village of Belmont) and the southeast part of the City of London.\n\nThe name of the electoral district was changed in 1977 to \"London-Middlesex\".\n\nIn 1987, the Village of Belmont and the Village of Lucan were added. The City of London portion of the riding was redefined.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Elgin—Middlesex—London, London West, London—Adelaide, London—Fanshawe and Perth—Middlesex ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nParliamentary website:Middlesex East\nParliamentary website: London-Middlesex\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843088", "title": "Thunder Bay—Atikokan", "text": "Thunder Bay—Atikokan\n\nThunder Bay—Atikokan was a federal electoral district in northwestern Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 2003 and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007. The federal riding was created in 1976, from parts of Fort William and Thunder Bay ridings. It became a provincial riding in 1999.\n\nIt initially consisted of the part of the Territorial District of Rainy River east of the 4th Meridian, including the whole of the Township of Atikokan; and the southwest part of the Territorial District of Thunder Bay, including the southern part of the city of Thunder Bay, Ontario.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Thunder Bay—Rainy River and Thunder Bay—Superior North ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843090", "title": "Mogo", "text": "Mogo\n\nMogo is a fictional character who appears as a sentient planet and a member of the Green Lantern Corps in the DC Universe.\n\nMogo first appeared in \"Green Lantern\" vol. 2 #188 (May 1985) in a story titled \"Mogo Doesn't Socialize\" and was created by writer Alan Moore and artist Dave Gibbons. Although initially a one-off character from a short story, the planet has grown in importance in the Green Lantern mythos and is a necessary part of the process for distributing power rings as well as a destination for Corps members to recuperate.\n\nMogo is a sentient and living planet. It is technically genderless, but it is often casually referred to as male. When it is desired, its affiliation with the Corps is shown with foliage arranged into a green band, marked with the standard Green Lantern Corps lantern symbol, circling Mogo's equatorial area.\n\nIn its early appearances, Mogo is not a social Green Lantern and its interactions with the rest of the DC universe are not well documented. It avoids announcing its presence, preferring to represent itself using pseudonymous holograms. In Mogo's first appearance, it is explained that the planet-sized Mogo's gravitational field would wreak havoc on any other planet it would try to \"visit\"; hence Mogo \"doesn't socialize.\"\n\nBolphunga the Unrelenting, an alien hunter, was one of Mogo's first direct adversaries; having tracked the legendary Green Lantern Mogo to the planet where he apparently 'resided', Bolphunga subsequently spent years searching the planet for Mogo, examining various plants and animals for any sign of a power ring, until closer examination of patterns in the foliage led him to realize just what Mogo really was, prompting him to flee Mogo in a panic.\n\nIn one incident, it sent holograms to purchase Lobo's dolphins. When Lobo tried to retrieve them, a Mogo hologram persuaded him not to. The dolphins turned out to have a symbiotic relationship with Mogo, eating space debris that fell to his surface. Lobo never discovered he was dealing with a sentient planet. At the same time, Mogo has allowed alien races to live on its surface and has been willing to change its climatic conditions to suit them. These inhabitants of Mogo may not always know that their home is alive and watching them.\n\nWhen the Parallax entity, who was at that time inhabiting the body of Hal Jordan, destroyed the power battery on Oa and slew the Guardians, Mogo lost contact with the Green Lantern energy that helped sustain him. He traveled to Sector 1014 to seek the aid of Ch'p, unaware that his friend had died long ago. Having relied on the emerald energy of the power battery to sustain him, Mogo lost consciousness and drifted through Sector 1014 until he was discovered by a nomadic alien race. These aliens proceeded to strip Mogo of his natural resources and pollute his environment. Mogo's body reacted instinctively, creating constructs to hinder the aliens' efforts to exploit his resources. Mogo was finally rescued by Kyle Rayner, who used his power ring to reawaken the sleeping giant. Mogo offered to allow the aliens to settle on him and offered to take care of all their needs, but the stubborn beings chose to abandon their settlements. Mogo later revealed to Rayner that he was relieved the aliens had left, and that he had planned to give them terrible weather in retaliation for their pollution.\n\nThis storyline contradicts a Green Lantern annual where Kyle faces the bodies of many dead Green Lanterns, Mogo included, all of whom try to destroy him.\n\nMogo appeared in \"Green Lantern Corps: Recharge\" #2, requesting back-up against Rannian and Thanagarian forces. Green Lanterns Kyle Rayner, Guy Gardner, Stel, and Green Man were dispatched to clear out the enemy fleets and then enjoyed a respite on Mogo's surface (Guy made metafictional remarks about Mogo wanting to socialize, recalling the famous Alan Moore story).\n\nWith the restoration of the Green Lantern Corps, Mogo has taken on the role of a training and recreation planet for his fellow Green Lanterns. Soranik Natu, Kyle Rayner, and other Lanterns have traveled to his sector to ask for his counsel. Further, while defending Mogo from an attack by the Sinestro Corps, the Green Lantern Arisia explained that Mogo is responsible for guiding Lantern power rings without users to those who can overcome great fear, and says that \"without him, the rings are directionless\".\n\nMogo played a major role in the conclusion of the \"Infinite Crisis\", in which the Green Lantern Corps, Superman and Kal-L stop the villainous Superboy-Prime. The two Supermen flew the deluded Superboy-Prime through the red sun Rao in a desperate gamble to depower him. With their powers waning, the Kryptonians crash land on Mogo. Superboy-Prime is defeated by Superman, but Kal-L dies of his injuries. After the fight, the rest of the Green Lantern Corps, who have suffered fatalities themselves, take Superboy-Prime into custody.\n\nIn the \"\"52\"\" storyline, as Adam Strange and Starfire's ship is hurtling towards a sun, Mogo appears and rescues them.\n\nIn \"Tales of the Green Lantern Corps Annual\" #2 (1986), a prophecy narrated to Abin Sur suggests that Mogo will be the last Green Lantern. In a battle with the \"Empire of Tears\", Ranx the Sentient City will explode a blink-bomb within Mogo's core, killing the sentient planet and ending the Green Lantern Corps forever.\n\nWhen the Corps is rebuilt again, many Lanterns gain partners. Mogo teams up with Bzzd, an insect-sized Lantern. Bzzd is killed battling Mongul II.\n\nIn \"Green Lantern Corps\" #11 (vol. 2), Mogo apparently shows Kilowog images of his dead species, pushing him into madness and hatred toward the Green Lantern Corps. He then starts tampering with the minds of the Lanterns seeking advice and counseling in the form of illusions granted by Mogo's powers, framing Guy Gardner for killing and pitting the Lanterns against each other. This behavior seems to be caused by the virus Despotellis of the Sinestro Corps and, according to Guy Gardner, was actually unnoticed by the planet, who was immune to the fungus himself (stated by Green Man in issue #13). After the fungus made itself known by drilling towards Mogo's core, the sentient planet proceeded to shift its orbit into the path of an asteroid whose impact noticeably scars Mogo but eradicates the fungus, whose remnants are destroyed by the other Lanterns.\n\nThe Sinestro Corps attack Mogo with Ranx, who started to drill into the planet, with the intention of planting the blink bomb. It was revealed that Mogo is the one who guides the rings of deceased Lanterns to find new replacements and that if he should die, the Corps would be unable to recruit members in this manner. Thanks to Sodam Yat, as well as a change in the Book of Oa permitting the Lanterns to use lethal force against the Sinestro Corps, Ranx is destroyed and the Sinestro Corps are driven from Mogo.\n\nDuring the Blackest Night event, Oa is attacked by the deadly Black Lantern Corps. During the attack, Salaak decrees that all rings from fallen Green Lanterns should be sent to Mogo, so as not to endanger the lives of potential rookies. Soranik Natu then sends all injured patients from the fight to Mogo, but is sidetracked by Kyle Rayner being attacked by a Black Lantern Jade. She sends her partner Iolande to Mogo with the patients alone instead. Mogo shows up at Oa to help in the battle against the Black Lanterns with Kilowog stating \"I guess Mogo does socialize after all\", a tip of the hat to Moore's origin story. Mogo increases his gravity to such a degree that all of the Black Lanterns are pulled down to his surface and absorbed into his core. The superhot magma within continually burns up the Black Lantern's bodies, keeping them from regenerating their forms. Mogo describes this as \"They will burn, for all eternity\". The injured patients are shown to be resting safely on Mogo.\n\nFollowing the successful imprisonment and destruction of the Black Lanterns, Mogo and the rest of the Green Lantern Corps along with Munk and Miri face the wrath of a red ring–possessed Guy Gardner. While Miri, a Star Sapphire, attempts to revert Guy to normal, it is ultimately Mogo who manages to purge the infection of the red light. However, he warns that some influence of the red still remains and that only a Blue Lantern's power ring could completely remove the influence of the red ring. Mogo soon resumes his duties of supervising new rookies as they are recruited.\n\nIn the \"War of the Green Lanterns\" crossover, Mogo was corrupted and taken over when Krona attacked Oa with the emotional entities and Parallax climbed inside the Central Power Battery on Oa. Krona then used Mogo to send out hundreds of Green Lantern rings across the universe to recruit more members to be brainwashed. Kyle Rayner and John Stewart tried to stop Mogo while wielding blue and indigo rings respectively, but they could not reach him because of the Black Lantern energy that Mogo had absorbed from the events of \"Blackest Night\". John Stewart used his Indigo Tribe ring to absorb the Black Lantern energy, and was forced to destroy Mogo by firing a Black Lantern constructed bullet into his core. Mogo's sudden destruction caused fragments of his body to rain down upon Oa, destroying multiple structures and knocking out many rogue Lanterns under Krona's control, leaving an opening for Hal and Guy to get to Krona almost unimpeded. After Krona is apparently killed by Hal Jordan, Mogo's corpse is now orbiting around the planet Oa. After the ensuing chaos, along with Krona's death and Sinestro gaining a green ring, Kilowog states that as long as Mogo's corpse floats above Oa, the Corps will be disheartened. He gets numerous Lanterns together and they move his pieces into the nearest sun, giving him a \"funeral pyre\". The resulting reaction from Mogo's body being put into the sun causes a Mogo-like Green Lantern stripe to appear, forever honoring the planet.\n\nFollowing Mogo's destruction, the Guardians tell John Stewart that Mogo's remains appear to be moving toward a particular location, suggesting that Mogo is trying to reform. The Guardians assign Stewart to track it. While traveling, he encounters Fatality, who reveals that Mogo is actually a male and female consciousness that were 'mated' at the core, with John's fragment of Mogo containing the female consciousness that seeks to be reunited with its mate. This prompts Fatality to use her Star Sapphire powers to help the endangered love come together.\n\nJohn and Fatality arrive at the location of Mogo's pieces. They are held prisoner by a space pirate using Mogo's power as the ship's energy beam weapon to attack the planet's core, threatening their lives. John and Fatality attack the space pirate, intending to free Mogo, by sending the space pirate to crash on the planet. John discovers the Guardians' plan to use Mogo. After the events of \"War of the Green Lanterns\", Mogo reforms into a planet's orbit. The Guardians reveal their plan was to use the size of the reconstituted Mogo and assimilate it into the Third Army, but the plan fails when Mogo destroys the Third Army trying to assimilate it.\n\nThe villainous First Lantern drained the Green Lantern Corps of their emotions on the planet Oa, but Mogo rescued the Corps by shielding them with dirt and stone, allowing them to escape from the First Lantern's powers. When the Green Lantern Corps are transported to Mogo, Mogo creates a scenario in which the Corps is attacked by their doppelgangers. Mogo freezes the doppelgangers and confesses the ruse to the Corps, stating that it was done to test their will and strength and prepare them to fight against the First Lantern. After the Lights Out crossover and the destruction by Relic, Mogo became the new headquarters of the Green Lantern Corps.\n\nMogo's ring is later stolen by the forces of New Genesis. This causes Mogo's rotation to slow and its systems to crumble. Several Green Lanterns perish in an attempt to rescue Mogo's ring. Following the final battle at New Genesis, Mogo is restored when his ring is returned.\n\nIn the \"\", it is revealed that in the 31st century Mogo has been long dead and without him, there was no way to distribute the rings and thus no Green Lantern Corps.\n\nMogo appears in DC Rebirth and the post-Rebirth DC Universe. \n\nIn \"Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps\" #1, after the events where the Green Lantern Corps found themselves displaced in another universe, Mogo and the other surviving members of the corps find their way back home to their own universe. Thereafter, Mogo also serves as the current headquarters of the Green Lantern Corps. For a period, during the \"Prism of Time\" and \"Fracture\" story arcs of \"Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps\", Mogo also served as the joint headquarters of the Green Lantern Corps (under the leadership of John Stewart) and the Sinestro Corps (under the leadership of Soranik Natu).\n\nDuring the time that Hank Henshaw was hacking into the Green Lantern main Power Battery, he corrupted Mogo's landscape causing uncontrolled weather and for numerous buildings to collapse. Following Henshaw's defeat, Ganthet reveals the Guardians are secretly rebuilding Oa and intend to return the Green Lanterns' main base of operations back there to allow for Mogo to fully recover from this experience\n\nIn addition to the standard powers of a Green Lantern power ring, Mogo can also alter his weather and surface conditions such as plant growth and gravity, and travel through space at faster-than-light speeds. Mogo has a form of sensory or extrasensory awareness of what is happening around and on it. However, his wellbeing is largely sustained by the constant supply of energy from a Green Lantern power battery. Without it, he eventually loses his strength and even falls into a seemingly comatose state. Mogo also telepathically guided the Green Lantern power rings to their bearers.\n\nIn the \"Green Lantern versus Aliens\" limited series, Mogo was also the adopted home of a group of Aliens. It seems that years ago, Hal Jordan and a group of fellow Green Lanterns were charged with dealing with these Xenomorphs following the death of a Green Lantern, and Hal Jordan wanted to avoid killing them if possible, believing that they were just animals and thus were not evil. His solution was to deposit them on Mogo, where they would be a threat to no one and would be able to live. Years after that, however, Kyle Rayner and other Green Lanterns, including Salaak traveled to Mogo to rescue the crew of a crashed freighter. This was Rayner's first encounter with the sentient planet, although he didn't speak to Mogo directly. Most of the GL squad did not survive. However, due to its non-canon nature (as evidenced by the dead GLs showing up alive later), in their next encounter, Rayner does not remember this event.\n\nIn the \"\" comic, Mogo arrives near Earth along with rest of the Green Lanterns to combat Superman's regime and the Sinestro Corps, killing many Sinestro Corps members in the ensuing battle. However, Batman's plan to stream Superman's brutality backfired, as he becomes even more powerful after receiving a yellow power ring and seemingly killing Black Canary, terrifying the entire Earth.\n\nSuperman confronts and overpowers Ganthet, slamming him into Mogo while withstanding the latter's planetary green energy beam. Finally, he pushes both of them into the sun.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843094", "title": "Fantasy (Mariah Carey song)", "text": "Fantasy (Mariah Carey song)\n\n\"Fantasy\" is a song recorded by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey from her fifth studio album \"Daydream\" (1995), released on September 12, 1995 by Columbia Records as the lead single from the album. The song was written by Carey and Dave Hall, both serving as primary producers alongside Sean Combs. The song heavily samples Tom Tom Club's 1981 song \"Genius of Love\" and incorporates various other beats and grooves arranged by the former. The song's lyrics describe a woman who is in love with a man, and how every time she sees him she starts fantasizing about an impossible relationship with him. The remix for the song features rap verses from Ol' Dirty Bastard, something Carey arranged to assist in her crossover into the hip-hop market.\n\n\"Fantasy\" became the second song in \"Billboard\" history, and the first by a female, to debut atop the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Additionally, aside from topping the Hot 100 chart for eight consecutive weeks, the song topped the charts in Australia, Canada and New Zealand, and was a top-five hit in Belgium, Finland, France and the United Kingdom.\n\nCarey performed \"Fantasy\" live on several television and award show appearances around the world. Carey performed the song at the 23rd annual American Music Awards, held on January 29, 1996. Additionally, it was performed live on British music chart program Top of the Pops and on French television. \"Fantasy\" was part of the set-lists on several of Carey's succeeding tours, making its debut during the album's accompanying set of concerts, the Daydream World Tour and is featured on her compilation albums, \"#1's\" (1998), \"Greatest Hits\" (2001), \"The Remixes\" (2003) and \"Playlist: The Very Best of Mariah Carey\" (2010).\n\nThe cover of the single was shot by top fashion photographer Steven Meisel. The cover for her album \"Daydream\" is a cropped version of the single cover. Carey directed the music video for \"Fantasy\", making it her directorial debut. Carey created the video's concept and chose the filming location. After being disappointed with the final result in many of her previous videos, Carey decided to single-handedly direct the video. The video showed Carey's rollerblading through Playland Amusement Park in Rye, New York, singing and enjoying herself. Midway through the video, Ol' Dirty Bastard makes a cameo appearance as a clown. The video concludes with Carey dancing atop the sunroof of a car, with many others present and enjoying the music and celebration.\n\nWith \"Daydream\", Carey began incorporating urban R&B and hip hop into her music, something very noticeable in \"Fantasy.\" After Carey began writing songs for her new album \"Daydream\", she decided to include the hook from the Tom Tom Club song \"Genius of Love\" into an up-tempo song. Afterwards, Carey and Hall began incorporating the sample into the lyrics and melody she had already produced. Carey described how the idea to sample the song became a reality:\n\nI was listening to the radio and heard 'Genius of Love', and I hadn't heard it in a long time. It reminded me of growing up and listening to the radio and that feeling the song gave me seemed to go with the melody and basic idea I had for \"Fantasy.\" I initially told Dave about the idea, and we did it. We called up the Tom Tom Club and they were really into it.\nCarey recalled how the writers of the song were really intrigued by the idea of Carey sampling the song, and immediately signed over the rights. After Carey presented Hall with the sample, the chorus and beat, he developed a familiar groove that he felt would \"highlight Carey's voice.\" After they completed the song, Carey's husband and CEO of Columbia, Tommy Mottola listened to \"Fantasy\" and agreed to include it on the album. The cover of the single was shot by top fashion photographer Steven Meisel. A cropped version of the photograph was used as the album cover as well. Hall described his experience with writing the song with Carey:\n\n[It] was a fun song to do. Mariah brought me 'Genius of Love' and I laid some strings on it and put it into a groove I felt really fit and highlighted her voice. And that song didn't take us but a minute to do, because she really busted that out within two days. We did a rough copy and let Tommy Mottola hear it and he loved it, so all we had to do was bring it back in and mix it.\n\n\"Fantasy\" is an up-tempo song with modern R&B and dance-pop genres within its composition, which blends elements of funk music, hip hop, and bubblegum pop. \"Fantasy\" moves at a tempo of 102 beats per minute. The remix, which features rap verses from O.D.B, also incorporates hip-hop into the bridge. The song uses heavy bass and percussion, as well as a sample from \"Genius of Love\". The song is set in the signature common time, and is written in the key of G major. It features a basic chord progression of A-F-. Carey's vocal range in the song spans from the note of D to the high note of F; the piano and guitar pieces range from D to E as well. The song contains choral lyrics written by Carey, who also developed the song's melody and original beat. Instrumentation and production was performed by Dave Hall, while co-arranging and producing the track as well. The members of the Tom Tom Club, Tina Weymouth, Chris Frantz, Steven Stanley and Adrian Belew are all credited as writers due to the inclusion of the music sample they wrote.\n\nUpon its release, \"Fantasy\" garnered acclaim from contemporary music critics. Bill Lamb from About.com was very positive on the song, calling it \"truly inspiring\" and a \"career high water mark\" for Carey. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic also praised the song, saying \"Carey continues to perfect her craft and that she has earned her status as an R&B/pop diva.\" Stephen Holden from \"The New York Times\" gave the song praise, writing \"with 'Fantasy,' Ms. Carey glides confidently into the territory where gospel-flavored pop-soul meets light hip-hop and recorded some of the most gorgeously spun choral music to be found on a contemporary album.\" Additionally, he claimed \"Fantasy\" held some of the album's best moments, writing \"she continues to make pop music as deliciously enticing as the best moments of \"Fantasy.\" Slant Magazine ranked the song at number sixty on their \"Best Singles of the '90s\" list, writing it is \"escapism perfected, [a] summer bubblegum gem with a sweet, flawless vocal line driven by a diva in her prime.\"\n\n\"Fantasy\" achieved strong commercial success around the world. The song became Carey's ninth number one single on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. It became the first single by a female artist to open atop the chart, and only the second single to do so after \"You Are Not Alone\" by Michael Jackson. It debuted at number one due to the strong sales, which were expected to exceed 229,000 copies. It spent eight weeks at the top of the chart, from September 24 to November 18, 1995, Carey's longest stay at the time alongside \"Dreamlover\" (1993). It replaced \"Gangsta's Paradise\" by Coolio, and was replaced by Whitney Houston's \"Exhale (Shoop Shoop)\", which also debuted atop the Hot 100. \"Fantasy\" spent 23 weeks in the top 40 and was successful on other \"Billboard\" formats, including the R&B and dance charts. The song debuted at number 11 on the Mainstream R&B/Hip-Hop chart, setting a record at the time for the charts highest debut which would eventually be surpassed by Drake's \"Nice for What\" in 2018. Its strong sales led it to be certified double-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), Carey's first single to do so. \"Fantasy\" was the second best-selling single of 1995 in the US, with sales of 1,500,000. It was ranked seventh on the Hot 100 year-end charts for 1995 and 49th on the 1996 year-end charts. \"Fantasy\" ranked at number 15 on the Hot 100 decade-end chart for the 1990s.\n\nIn Australia, the song topped the chart and was certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). In Canada, the song debuted on the \"RPM\" Singles Chart at number 95 on the \"RPM\" issue dated October 2, 1995, and reached the top of the chart on November 20, 1995. It was present on the chart for a total of 20 weeks, and ranked 18 on the \"RPM\" Year-end chart for 1995. \"Fantasy\" also reached the top 10 in most countries across Europe, and the top 20 on the Oricon chart in Japan. It peaked within the top-five in Belgium (Wallonia), Finland, France and the United Kingdom; and in the top 10 in Belgium (Flanders), The Netherlands, Ireland, Norway and Switzerland. \"Fantasy\" was certified silver in France and gold in the United Kingdom, by the Syndicat National de l'Édition Phonographique (SNEP) and British Phonographic Industry (BPI), respectively. According to The Official Charts Company, the song has sold 400,000 copies in United Kingdom. The song also topped the charts in New Zealand, where it was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ).\n\nCarey worked with producer Puff Daddy to create the official remix, the Bad Boy remix of \"Fantasy\". While Columbia allowed Carey more leniency with the music she recorded, they became hesitant when she featured O.D.B. in the remix for \"Fantasy.\" They feared the sudden change was completely left field for her music, and worried it would jeopardize the album's success. Finally, the Bad Boy remix used guest raps from O.D.B and background vocals by Puff Daddy. Some of the song's R&B elements were removed for the remix, while the bassline and \"Genius of Love\" sample were emphasized & the bridge from the original version was used as the chorus. There is a version omitting Ol' Dirty Bastard's verses. The \"Bad Boy Fantasy Remix\", combines the chorus from the original version and the chorus of the Bad Boy Remix together, removing Ol' Dirty Bastard's vocals from his 2nd verse. Carey re-recorded vocals for club remixes of the song by David Morales, titled \"Daydream Interlude (Fantasy Sweet Dub Mix).\" The Bad Boy remix garnered positive reviews from music critics. Ken Tucker from \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the song, claiming its one of the few tracks where Carey \"defines herself.\" Additionally, he complimented the song, writing \"At her best, as she is on this clipped, spunky track, Carey is a disco diva for the '90s, a worthy successor to trailblazing women like Donna Summer and Vicki Sue Robinson, R&B singers with an affinity for the endless groove. Disco? No wonder most rock critics can't get behind her. Party on, Mariah.\"\n\nCarey has stated that the Bad Boy remix contributed to over half of the sales of \"Fantasy\".\n\nThe single's music video was the first that Carey directed entirely on her own. Carey had been open about the fact that she had not been happy with some of her previous music videos. She therefore decided to single-handedly direct the video, so the outcome would be to her exact choosing. Carey said her inspiration for the video was to give off a \"free and open feeling,\" trying to portray the freedom she had finally achieved in being allowed to direct her first video. The video for \"Fantasy\" debuted on September 7, 1995, at the \"MTV Video Music Awards.\" The video begins with Carey rollerblading in front of the boardwalk entrance at Playland amusement park, located in Rye, New York, and riding The Dragon Coaster, the park’s signature wooden coaster. The video continues with various snippets of Carey until the end of the second verse. Afterwards, the video switches to a night time scene that involves people dancing in the parking lot and on top cars.\n\nI'd done a lot of videos and wasn't always a hundred percent thrilled. For the most part, I was never thrilled with the results, so I figured I would give directing a shot. It was a pretty simple concept. Most of the scenes were featured at the amusement park, at a late-night outdoor celebration. I was really happy to be able to include O.D.B in the remix video.\n\nFollowing in their actions, Carey joins in the festivities and hops atop a car and begins singing and dancing to the strong bass and R&B beat playing from the stereos. The video also contains a scene involving a lovable young girl who tries to emulate Carey and whose character reappears in the video for Carey's single \"Shake It Off\" (2005). The video shoot took place in mid-August 1995. In the official video for the song's remix, O.D.B makes a few cameo appearances as a clown, as well as on the Boardwalk during additional scenes with Carey.\n\n\"Fantasy\" won many prestigious awards throughout the music industry in 1995 and 1996. At the Blockbuster Entertainment Awards, the song won the award for \"Favorite Single.\" Additionally, the song was awarded the \"Pop Award\" honor at the 1996 annual American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP). Carey won the \"Dance Record of the Year\" award at the \"National Dance Music Awards\" in 1996. \"Fantasy\" won two awards at the 1996 \"Winter Music Conference National Dance Music Awards,\" for \"Favorite Single\" and \"Dance Record of the Year.\" The song won a Broadcast Music Incorporated (BMI) \"Pop Song of the Year\" award in 1997, as well as the \"Favorite Single\" award at the annual \"Archer Awards.\" The song also was nominated for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 38th Grammy Awards.\n\n\"Fantasy\" was performed at the 23rd Annual American Music Awards, where Carey won two of the top awards. For the performance, Carey wore a long black trench coat and matching boots, pants and blouse, and was backed by three background vocalists. Additionally, Carey sang \"Fantasy\" on the British music chart program \"Top of the Pops\", during a promotional stop in the United Kingdom on September 12, 1995. During its taping, she wore a blue blouse and black jumper. Two days later, Carey appeared on French television where she performed the song alongside several male and female dancers. Carey donned a mid-waist baring white blouse and black leather pants and matching heeled boots. Trey Lorenz and two female back up vocalists were also featured on stage during the show's taping. Aside from live television appearances, the song was performed on several legs of Carey's tours.\n\n\"Fantasy\" was performed at every show on her Daydream World Tour (1996) set to the album version. The performance was tuned similarly to Carey's recital at the American Music Awards, featuring a similar outfit, dance routines and set up. The remix version was performed on her Butterfly World Tour (1998), Rainbow World Tour (2000), (2003–2004), The Adventures of Mimi Tour (2006), The Elusive Chanteuse Show (2014) and Caution World Tour (2019), each of which featured a varying synopsis. In 1998, it became the first time Carey performed the remix version in concert, placing a large projection screen on to the stage, and featuring snippets and cuts of Ol' Dirty Bastard throughout the video. Additionally, Carey was dressed in blue jeans and a white blouse, and danced several chair routines with several male dancers. During the Charmbracelet Tour and Rainbow Tour, the shows segment was similar to her previous tour. The song was featured on the select set-list on three of Carey's live taped shows, \",\" \"The Adventures of Mimi\", and \"Around the World\".\n\n\"Fantasy\" exemplified how a music sample could be transformed \"into a fully realized pop masterpiece\". Due to the success and influence of the song, Carey is credited for introducing R&B and hip hop collaboration into mainstream pop culture, and for popularizing rap as a featuring act through her post-1995 songs. Sasha Frere-Jones, editor of \"The New Yorker\" commented in referencing to the song's remix, \"It became standard for R&B/hip-hop stars like Missy Elliott and Beyoncé, to combine melodies with rapped verses. And young white pop stars—including Britney Spears, 'N Sync, and Christina Aguilera—have spent much of the past ten years making pop music that is unmistakably R&B.\" Moreover, Jones concludes that \"Her idea of pairing a female songbird with the leading male MCs of hip-hop changed R&B and, eventually, all of pop. Although now anyone is free to use this idea, the success of \"Mimi\" [ref. to \"The Emancipation of Mimi\", her tenth studio album released almost a decade after Fantasy] suggests that it still belongs to Carey.\"\n\nJohn Norris of MTV News has stated that the remix was \"responsible for, I would argue, an entire wave of music that we've seen since and that is the R&B-hip-hop collaboration. You could argue that the 'Fantasy' remix was the single most important recording that she's ever made.\" Norris echoed the sentiments of TLC's Lisa Lopes, who told MTV that it's because of Mariah that we have \"Hip-Pop.\" Judnick Mayard, writer of TheFader, wrote that in regarding of R&B and hip hop collaboration, \"The champion of this movement is Mariah Carey.\" Mayard also expressed that \"To this day ODB and Mariah may still be the best and most random hip hop collaboration of all time\", citing that due to the record \"Fantasy,\" \"R&B and Hip Hop were the best of step siblings.\"\n\n\nWorldwide CD single\n\nUK #1/US CD maxi-single\n\nUK CD maxi-single #2\nCredits adapted from the \"Daydream\" liner notes.\n\nWorks cited\n"}
{"id": "1843095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843095", "title": "Timmins—Chapleau", "text": "Timmins—Chapleau\n\nTimmins—Chapleau was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997. It was located in the northeast part of the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Cochrane, Nipissing, Timiskaming and Timmins ridings.\n\nIt initially consisted of the northern part of the Territorial District of Sudbury, the eastern part of the Territorial District of Algoma, the Township of Teefy, the City of Timmins and the Town of Iroquois Falls in the Territorial District of Cochrane, and the western part of the Territorial District of Timiskaming.\n\nAfter 1987, it consisted of parts of the Territorial Districts of Algoma, Cochrane, Sudbury and Timiskaming.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Algoma, Nickel Belt, Timiskaming—Cochrane, and Timmins—James Bay ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843098", "title": "Noviodunum", "text": "Noviodunum\n\nNoviodunum is a name of Celtic origin, meaning \"new fort\": It comes from \"nowyo\", Celtic for \"new\", and \"dun\", the Celtic for \"hillfort\" or \"fortified settlement\", cognate of English \"town\".\n\nSeveral places were named Noviodunum. Among these:\n\n"}
{"id": "1843099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843099", "title": "Wellington—Dufferin—Simcoe", "text": "Wellington—Dufferin—Simcoe\n\nWellington—Dufferin—Simcoe was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1976 as Dufferin—Wellington and renamed in 1977. It was created from parts of Halton, Peel—Dufferin—Simcoe and Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Waterloo ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the County of Dufferin, the Townships of Adjala and Tosorontio and the Town of Alliston in the County of Simcoe, and Townships of Arthur, Erin, Maryborough, Minto, Nichol, Peel, West Garafraxa and West Luther, including the Towns of Mount Forest and Palmerston in the County of Wellington.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Guelph—Wellington, Perth—Wellington—Waterloo, Simcoe Centre, Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe and York—Simcoe ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843101", "title": "York—Peel", "text": "York—Peel\n\nYork—Peel was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Peel—Dufferin—Simcoe, York North and York—Simcoe ridings. It was represented in the House of Commons by Sinclair Stevens of the Progressive Conservative Party during its whole existence.\n\nYork—Peel consisted of the Town of Caledon in Peel Region, and the Townships of East Gwillimbury and King and the Towns of Aurora, Newmarket and Whitchurch–Stouffville in York Region.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was re-distributed between Halton—Peel, Markham, York North and York—Simcoe ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843109", "title": "Star of Indiana Drum and Bugle Corps", "text": "Star of Indiana Drum and Bugle Corps\n\nThe Star of Indiana Drum and Bugle Corps (also known simply as, \"Star\") is a defunct competitive junior drum and bugle corps. Based in Bloomington, Indiana, the corps was the 1991 Drum Corps International (DCI) Open Class \"(now World Class)\" World Champion.\n\nThe Star of Indiana Drum and Bugle Corps was founded in 1984 in Bloomington, Indiana. Its startup was funded with a grant of $1,000,000 from Bill Cook and his medical device manufacturing company, the Cook Group. Marching a then-maximum one hundred twenty-eight members under the directorship of Jim Mason, at the 1985 DCI World Championships in Madison, Wisconsin, Star of Indiana became only the second corps to earn a spot among DCI's Top Twelve Finalists in its first season of competition; the first corps to do so was the 1972 Bleu Raeders. Star of Indiana marched in DCI competition for only nine seasons, but finished in DCI Finals every year, twice finishing third, second once, and winning the 1991 DCI Open Class World Championship. In addition to its DCI title, Star also won the Drum Corps Midwest Division I Championship, 1991–93; the U.S.Open in 1988 & '89; the DCI Preview of Champions title, 1991–93; and ten DCI Regional Championships, 1988-93.\n\nAs early as 1992, Star's staff knew that they wanted the corps to do more than perform a ten-minute drum corps competition program. After the 1993 season, Star of Indiana departed the competition field and developed a new way of presenting drum corps. \"Brass Theater\" was designed to apply the powerful brass and percussion and the exacting choreography of drum corps to pop, Broadway, movie, and classical music to create an all new type of stage entertainment. Touring with the Canadian Brass, the world's most popular brass quintet, \"Brass Theater\" was a hit with fans and critics alike on a ten city tour in 1994. Star and the Canadian Brass toured again in 1995 and '96 as \"Brass Theater II\" and \"... III\" to even greater acclaim. The two groups also recorded three CD's of the \"Brass Theater\" programs. Then, in 1997 and '98, Star settled down to perform \"Brass Theater\" in a theater in Branson, Missouri.\n\nIn 1999, Star premiered the stage show, \"Blast!\" at the Hammersmith Theatre in London, England. After an unimpressive start, its audience steadily grew, until it became a top ten hit on the London stage. After a year in London, \"Blast! returned to the U.S. in 2000, debuting on the Broadway stage to rave reviews. The show won the 2001 Tony Award for Best Special Theatrical Event, and, when it was videotaped for PBS, it won the 2001 Emmy Award for Best Choreography. After its Broadway run, Star took \"Blast!\" on the road, with companies touring the country each year to large and enthusiastic audiences. Casts were also developed to perform long-term engagements at Disneyland in Anaheim, California and at Disney World in Orlando, Florida. \"Blast!\" continued to tour through 2012.\n\nIn August 2010, Star of Indiana returned to the DCI World Championships. The alumni had previously gathered to perform, but on August 11, the Star of Indiana Alumni Corps performed after the last competing corps in DCI's semifinals at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis.\n\nOne group of Star of Indiana alumni formed Star United, a mini-corps that competes at the Drum Corps Associates (DCA) senior drum and bugle corps championships. Star United won the DCA mini-corps championship 2006-2012 and 2014–18, and scored a perfect 100.00 in the 2011 Finals. Star United also performed as a SoundSport team at the 2014 & 2017 DCI World Championships in Indianapolis.\n\nAfter the 2010 alumni corps experience another group of Star alumni, consisting of past members of the Star of Indiana drumlines, decided to compete in the Drum Corps Associates ensemble competition by entering a 12 man drumline in 2011. They finished first place in their initial year. They continued to compete in the ensemble competition, fielding a 9 man drumline in 2012.\n\nSources:\n\n\"Gold background indicates DCI Championship; pale blue background indicates DCI Class Finalist.\"\n"}
{"id": "1843114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843114", "title": "Where the Buffalo Roam", "text": "Where the Buffalo Roam\n\nWhere the Buffalo Roam is a 1980 American semi-biographical comedy film which loosely depicts author Hunter S. Thompson's rise to fame in the 1970s and his relationship with Chicano attorney and activist Oscar \"Zeta\" Acosta. The film was produced and directed by Art Linson. Bill Murray portrayed the author and Peter Boyle portrayed Acosta, who is referred to in the film as Carl Lazlo, Esq. A number of other names, places, and details of Thompson's life are also changed.\n\nThompson's obituary for Acosta, \"The Banshee Screams for Buffalo Meat\", which appeared in \"Rolling Stone\" in October 1977, serves as the basis of the film, although screenwriter John Kaye drew from several other works, including \"Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72\", \"The Great Shark Hunt\", and \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\". Thompson served as \"executive consultant\" on the film.\n\nThe film opens in the Rocky Mountains on the Colorado ranch of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson, a journalist furiously trying to finish a story about his former attorney and friend, Carl Lazlo, Esq. Thompson then flashes back to a series of exploits involving the author and his attorney.\n\nIn 1968, Lazlo is fighting to stop a group of San Francisco youngsters from receiving harsh prison sentences for possession of marijuana. He convinces Thompson to write an article about it for \"Blast Magazine\". Thompson's editor, Marty Lewis, reminds Thompson that he has 19 hours to deadline. The judge hands out stiff sentences to everyone; the last client is a young man who was caught with a pound of marijuana and receives a five-year sentence. Lazlo reacts by attacking the prosecuting attorney and is then jailed for contempt of court.\n\nThe magazine story about the trial is a sensation, but Thompson does not hear from Lazlo until four years later, when Thompson is on assignment covering Super Bowl VI in Los Angeles. Lazlo appears at Thompson's hotel and convinces him to abandon the Super Bowl story and join his band of freedom fighters, which involves smuggling weapons to an unnamed Latin American country. Thompson goes along with Lazlo and the revolutionaries to a remote airstrip where a small airplane is to be loaded with weapons, but when a police helicopter finds them, Lazlo and his henchmen escape on the plane while Thompson refuses to follow.\n\nThompson's fame and fortune continue. He is a hit on the college lecture circuit and covers the 1972 presidential election campaign. After being thrown off the journalist plane by The Candidate's press secretary, Thompson takes the crew plane and gives strait-laced journalist Harris from the \"Post\" a strong hallucinogenic drug and steals his clothes and press credentials. At the next campaign stop, in the airport bathroom, Thompson is able to use his disguise to engage The Candidate in a conversation about the \"Screwheads\" and the \"Doomed\".\n\nThompson, still posing as Harris, returns to the journalist plane. Lazlo then appears, striding across the airport tarmac in a white suit. He boards the plane and tries to convince his old friend to join his socialist paradise somewhere in the desert. After causing a disturbance, Thompson and Lazlo are thrown off the plane, and Lazlo's papers that describe the community are blown across the airport runway. Lazlo, presumably, is not heard from again.\n\nThe action then returns to Thompson's cabin, just as the writer puts the finishing touches on his story, explaining that he didn't go along with Lazlo—or Nixon—because \"it still hasn't gotten weird enough for me.\"\n\n\nIn the late 1970s, film producer Thom Mount paid US$100,000 for the film rights to the obituary of Chicano activist Oscar Zeta Acosta, \"The Banshee Screams for Buffalo Meat\", written by Hunter S. Thompson. Thompson agreed to have it optioned without seeing a screenplay figuring that the film would never get made, as the vastly more popular \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" had been optioned several times and was never made. In 1978, Art Linson, who had previously produced four films, started planning to make the film, which would be his directorial debut. Thompson remembered, \"Then all of a sudden there was some moment of terrible horror when I realized they were going to make the movie\". Linson asked illustrator Ralph Steadman to create a poster for the film in the style of the illustrations he had done for Thompson's articles. He used a drawing titled \"Spirit of Gonzo\" as the basis.\n\nThompson met with the film's screenwriter John Kaye and felt that Kaye understood more than what was in the script, which he described as \"bad, dumb, low-level, low rent\". Thompson admitted that he signed away having any kind of control so that he could not be blamed for the end result. In the original script, Lazlo's surname was Mendoza but this was changed after Nosotros, a group of Chicano actors and filmmakers, threatened to create controversy if the character was played by Anglo actor Peter Boyle. Just before principal photography was to begin, Bill Murray became apprehensive about the project because of the shortcomings of the script.\n\nBefore principal photography began, Linson took a four-month crash course in directing. Thompson was eventually brought aboard the film's production as \"executive consultant\", but claimed he had no substantial role other than to have \"wandered around and fired machine guns on the set\". Kaye has claimed that Thompson and Murray changed parts of the script during filming and, at that point, he chose to no longer be involved in the production. Steadman observed Linson on the set and said that it was \"pretty obvious that he was in no frame of mind to catch the abandoned pure essence of gonzo madness, which can only happen in uncontrolled conditions\". He also felt that Linson's \"fanaticism for the subject he was trying to portray was undoubtedly there, and his sincerity, too\", but felt that he was under the impression that the film was a runaway hit before he had even begun filming it and therefore refused to take any chances with the material. Steadman and Thompson spent time on the set and the former talked to Murray about his impressions and observations of the latter's mannerisms. Within two weeks of Thompson being on set, Murray had transformed into him.\n\nDuring production, Murray and Thompson engaged in a series of dangerous one-upmanship contests. \"One day at Thompson's Aspen, Colorado home, after many drinks and after much arguing over who could out-Houdini whom, Thompson tied Billy to a chair and threw him into the swimming pool. Billy nearly drowned before Thompson pulled him out.\" Murray immersed himself in the character so deeply that when \"Saturday Night Live\" started its fifth season, Murray was still in character as Thompson. \"In a classic case of the role overtaking the actor, Billy returned that fall to \"Saturday Night\" so immersed in playing Hunter Thompson he had virtually become Hunter Thompson, complete with long black cigarette holder, dark glasses, and nasty habits. 'Billy,' said one of the writers, echoing several others, 'was not Bill Murray, he was Hunter Thompson. You couldn't talk to him without talking to Hunter Thompson.'\"\n\nMurray and Thompson were concerned with the film's lack of continuity and in early 1980 added voice-over narration. When the film was sneak-previewed in late March, the last two scenes and narration were absent. Murray was outraged and the studio ended up shooting a new ending. Three days before it was to be released in theaters a press screening was suddenly canceled because of editing problems.\n\nThe film shows Thompson in Los Angeles covering 1972's Super Bowl VI between the Miami Dolphins and the Dallas Cowboys. That game was actually played at Tulane Stadium in New Orleans. (The next year's Super Bowl was played in Los Angeles, between the Dolphins and the Washington Redskins.)\n\nThe film opened on April 25, 1980 in 464 theaters, earning $1,750,593 in its opening weekend and more than $6.6 million for a total lifetime gross.\n\nIt has been panned critically for being a series of bizarre episodes strung together rather than having a cohesive central plot. Movie historian Leonard Maltin remarked that \"Even Neil Young's music score can't save this dreadful comedy, which will baffle those who aren't familiar with Hunter S. Thompson's work and insult those who are.\" Film critic Roger Ebert gave \"Where the Buffalo Roam\" two stars out of four and said that \"The movie fails to deal convincingly with either Thompson's addictions or with his friendship with Lazlo\". However, Ebert also noted that \"this is the kind of bad movie that's almost worth seeing\". Gene Siskel awarded two-and-a-half stars out of four and declared that \"Murray is fine at playing an angry clown, but 'Where the Buffalo Roam' should have given us much more than that. There's nothing in the film that would make anyone want to read Hunter Thompson's words. And that's a critical failure for a movie about a writer.\" In his review for \"The Washington Post\", Gary Arnold wrote, \"Well, the actors haven't transcended their material. They're simply stuck with it. Murray and Boyle don't emerge as a swell comic team, and they aren't funny as individuals either.\" Jack Kroll wrote, in his review for \"Newsweek\" magazine, \"Screenwriter John Kaye has reduced Thompson's career to a rubble of disjointed episodes, and the relentless mayhem becomes tiresome chaos rather than liberating comic anarchy.\" In his review for \"The Globe and Mail\", Paul McGrath wrote, \"Murray is, nonetheless, the salvation of this patched-together film\", and felt that \"the rest is mostly filler. The story is so badly put together in the first place - and from there, badly scripted - that the movie makes almost no impact outside the infrequent hilarity\". Roger Angell of \"The New Yorker\" wrote, \"The most surprising thing ... is how much of Thompson's tone gets into the picture\".\n\nThe film review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes lists the film as \"rotten\" with a 17% favorable rating among critics based on 24 reviews.\n\nUniversal Studios quickly pulled it from distribution. Thompson hated the film, saying he liked Murray's performance but that he \"was very disappointed in the script. It sucks – a bad, dumb, low-level, low-rent script.\" Years later, Murray reflected on the film, \"I rented a house in L.A. with a guest house that Hunter lived in. I'd work all day and stay up all night with him; I was strong in those days. I took on another persona and that was tough to shake. I still have Hunter in me\".\n\nThe film was scored by Neil Young, who sings the opening theme, \"Home on the Range\" (from which the film derives its title), accompanied by a harmonica. Variations on \"Home on the Range\" are played by Young on electric guitar as \"Ode to Wild Bill\" and by an orchestra with arrangements by David Blumberg on \"Buffalo Stomp\". Music in the film included rock and R&B songs by Jimi Hendrix, Bob Dylan, The Temptations, the Four Tops and Creedence Clearwater Revival. Additionally, characters played by Bill Murray and René Auberjonois sing lyrics from \"Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds\".\n\nBecause of the high cost of music licensing, most VHS and all DVD releases retained only the Neil Young score and the Creedence song \"Keep on Chooglin'\", with the rest of the music replaced by generic approximations of the original songs. The choice of songs for the DVD version was somewhat anachronistic, featuring 1980s-style songs in a 1960s and 1970s setting.\n\nIn 2017, Shout! Factory released a Blu-ray edition restoring the original songs, making this the first home media version since the original VHS release to feature a completely unaltered soundtrack.\n\nThe soundtrack album was released by Backstreet Records in 1980 as a vinyl LP and included pieces of dialogue from the film. It has not been re-issued on CD.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "1843119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843119", "title": "Shuttleworth (canvassing)", "text": "Shuttleworth (canvassing)\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Shuttleworths are lists of people canvassed to be likely to vote for a particular political party in the PIG model of an electoral campaign. The idea is that once someone is determined to have voted, they are crossed off the list, thus maintaining an always up-to-date record of voters who have not yet been out to vote. They are usually printed on multi-sheet Carbonless copy paper so that successive updated copies for each street can progressively be torn off and given to party election workers as a list of doors to knock on.\n\n\"Shuttleworth\" is the proprietary Liberal Democrat name for the scheme. Now largely superseded by first EARS and then VAN software (named Connect in the UK) for the Liberal Democrats, MERLIN for the Conservative Party and Contact Creator for the Labour Party.\n\nThey were known as Mikardo pads after Ian Mikardo in the Labour party and as Reading pads in the Conservative party - in both cases because of the original invention, using carbon paper during the 1945 General Election in the Reading constituency, won by Mikardo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843124", "title": "Cuba at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Cuba at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nCuba competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics held in Australia's largest city, Sydney. 229 competitors, 147 men and 82 women, took part in 135 events in 24 sports.\n\nCuba's first appearance in the Olympic archery competition resulted in a surprise pair of victories.\n\nCuba entered the 2000 baseball competition with an 18–0 record and two gold medals to defend. In the preliminary round, the Cubans extended their winning streak to 21 before being defeated by the Netherlands. Despite the loss, they finished first in the round by winning the final three games. In the semifinals, the Cuban team defeated Japan 3–0 to advance to the gold medal game against the United States. For the first time in Olympic history, Cuba was shut out in a 4–0 loss to receive only the silver medal.\n\n\nEleven fencers, seven men and four women, represented Cuba in 2000.\n\n\n\n\n\nMen\n\n"}
{"id": "1843130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843130", "title": "Portage—Marquette", "text": "Portage—Marquette\n\nPortage—Marquette was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Marquette and Portage ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Brandon—Souris, Dauphin—Swan River, Lisgar—Marquette and Portage—Interlake ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843132", "title": "Winnipeg—Assiniboine", "text": "Winnipeg—Assiniboine\n\nWinnipeg—Assiniboine was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Portage, Winnipeg South and Winnipeg South Centre ridings\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Winnipeg South, Winnipeg South Centre and Winnipeg—St. James ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843134", "title": "Winnipeg—Fort Garry", "text": "Winnipeg—Fort Garry\n\nWinnipeg—Fort Garry was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Winnipeg South riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Winnipeg South and Winnipeg South Centre ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843138", "title": "Humboldt—Lake Centre", "text": "Humboldt—Lake Centre\n\nHumboldt—Lake Centre was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada\nfrom 1979 to 1988. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Mackenzie, Moose Jaw, Regina East, Regina—Lake Centre, Saskatoon—Biggar and Saskatoon—Humboldt ridings.\n\nThe district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into the ridings of Mackenzie, Moose Jaw—Lake Centre, Regina—Qu'Appelle, Saskatoon—Dundurn and Saskatoon—Humboldt.\n\nThe following were Members of Parliament for Humboldt—Lake Centre:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843141", "title": "Kindersley—Lloydminster", "text": "Kindersley—Lloydminster\n\nKindersley—Lloydminster was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, \nthat was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997. This riding was created in 1976 from parts of Battleford—Kindersley, Moose Jaw, Saskatoon—Biggar and Swift Current—Maple Creek ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Battlefords—Lloydminster, Cypress Hills—Grasslands, Saskatoon—Rosetown and Wanuskewin ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843143", "title": "Regina West", "text": "Regina West\n\nRegina West was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Regina—Lake Centre riding. It consisted of the part of the City of Regina lying west of Albert Street, and adjacent rural areas and Indian Reserves.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Regina—Lumsden and Regina—Wascana ridings. The representative was Les Benjamin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843144", "title": "Saskatoon East", "text": "Saskatoon East\n\nSaskatoon East was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Saskatoon—Humboldt riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Saskatoon—Dundurn and Saskatoon—Humboldt ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843149", "title": "Saskatoon West", "text": "Saskatoon West\n\nSaskatoon West () is a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988, and again in 2015.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Moose Jaw and Saskatoon—Biggar ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Kindersley—Lloydminster, Saskatoon—Clark's Crossing and Saskatoon—Dundurn ridings.\n\nThe riding was recreated for the 2015 election, mostly out of the portions of Saskatoon—Rosetown—Biggar and Saskatoon—Wanuskewin located in the city of Saskatoon.\n\nConsisting of those parts of the Province of Saskatchewan and the City of Saskatoon described as follows: commencing at the intersection of Highway No. 11 with Range Road 3052; thence southerly along Range Road 3052 and Wanuskewin Road to the easterly limit of the City of Saskatoon; thence generally southerly along said limit to Wanuskewin Road at approximate latitude 52°11'43\"N and longitude 106°37'23\"W; thence generally southerly along said road and Warman Road to 33rd Street East; thence easterly along said street and its production to the South Saskatchewan River; thence generally southwesterly along said river to the southerly limit of the City of Saskatoon; thence southwesterly, generally northwesterly and generally northeasterly along the southerly, westerly and northerly limits of said city to Beam Road; thence easterly and northeasterly along said road to Marquis Drive; thence easterly along said drive to Thatcher Avenue; thence northerly along said avenue to 71st Street West; thence easterly along said street to Highway No. 11 (the northwesterly limit of the City of Saskatoon); thence northerly and northeasterly along said highway and said limit to the point of commencement.\n\nEthnic groups (2011): 66.9% White, 18.1% Aboriginal, 5.5% Filipino, 2.0% South Asian, 1.8% Chinese, 1.5% Southeast Asian, 1.2% Black \nLanguages (2011): 82.1% English, 3.2% Tagalog, 1.7% French, 1.5% Ukrainian, 1.4% German, 1.2% Chinese, 1.2% Cree\nReligions (2011): 64.5% Christian (29.3% Catholic, 9.0% United Church, 3.9% Anglican, 2.8% Lutheran, 1.6% Pentecostal, 1.3% Baptist, 1.3% Christian Orthodox, 15.3% Other), 2.1% Muslim, 1.3% Buddhist, 1.1% Traditional Aboriginal Spirituality, 30.2% No religion \nMedian income (2015): $35,387 \nMedian after-tax income (2015): $32,189\n\nAverage income (2015): $42,551\nAverage after-tax income (2015): $36,180\n\nThis riding has elected the following members of the House of Commons of Canada:\n\n"}
{"id": "1843154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843154", "title": "The Battlefords—Meadow Lake", "text": "The Battlefords—Meadow Lake\n\nThe Battlefords—Meadow Lake was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Battleford—Kindersley, Meadow Lake and Saskatoon—Biggar ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Churchill River, Battlefords—Lloydminster, Wanuskewin and Saskatoon—Rosetown ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843158", "title": "Edmonton South", "text": "Edmonton South\n\nEdmonton South was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Edmonton West and Pembina ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Edmonton Southwest and Edmonton—Strathcona ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843162", "title": "Burnaby (electoral district)", "text": "Burnaby (electoral district)\n\nBurnaby was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Burnaby—Richmond—Delta, Burnaby—Seymour and New Westminster ridings\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Burnaby—Kingsway and New Westminster—Burnaby ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843164", "title": "Cariboo—Chilcotin", "text": "Cariboo—Chilcotin\n\nCariboo—Chilcotin was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons from 1979 to 2003.\n\nIt consisted initially of:\n\nIn 1987, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nIn 1996, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Coast Chilcotin, Fraser Valley East, Kamloops–Cariboo and Skeena ridings.\n\nThis district was eliminated as a result of redistribution in 2003. Parts of it went to Cariboo–Prince George, Kamloops–Thompson and Chilliwack–Fraser Canyon ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843166", "title": "Comox—Powell River", "text": "Comox—Powell River\n\nComox—Powell River was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Coast Chilcotin, Comox–Alberni and Skeena ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Comox—Alberni and North Island—Powell River ridings.\n\nIt consisted of\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843167", "title": "Sleeping Dogs (novel)", "text": "Sleeping Dogs (novel)\n\nSleeping Dogs is a 1995 young adult novel by Australian author, Sonya Hartnett. The novel centers on the depressed Willow family, isolated, dysfunctional and violent. Bow Fox, an artist, arrives to stay at the family's caravan park, precipitating a dark downward spiral.\n"}
{"id": "1843169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843169", "title": "Cowichan—Malahat—The Islands", "text": "Cowichan—Malahat—The Islands\n\nCowichan—Malahat—The Islands was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Nanaimo—Cowichan—The Islands and Esquimalt—Saanich ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Esquimalt—Juan de Fuca, Nanaimo—Cowichan and Saanich—Gulf Islands ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843170", "title": "Kamloops—Shuswap", "text": "Kamloops—Shuswap\n\nKamloops — Shuswap was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Fraser Valley East, Kamloops—Cariboo and Okanagan—Kootenay ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Kamloops and Okanagan—Shuswap ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843173", "title": "Schönfinkel", "text": "Schönfinkel\n\nSchönfinkel ( \"Sheynfinkel\", \"Šejnfinkeľ\"):\n"}
{"id": "1843176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843176", "title": "Mission—Port Moody", "text": "Mission—Port Moody\n\nMission—Port Moody was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Fraser Valley East and Fraser Valley West ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Mission—Coquitlam and Port Moody—Coquitlam ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843179", "title": "David Kertzer", "text": "David Kertzer\n\nDavid Israel Kertzer (born February 20, 1948) is an American anthropologist, historian, and academic leader specializing in the political, demographic, and religious history of Italy. He is the Paul Dupee, Jr. University Professor of Social Science, Professor of Anthropology, and Professor of Italian Studies at Brown University. His book \"\" (2014) won the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography.\n\nKertzer graduated from Brown University in 1969. He received his PhD in Anthropology from Brandeis University in 1974, and taught at Bowdoin College until 1992. That year he joined the faculty of Brown University as Professor of Anthropology and History. \n\nSponsored by the U.S.-Italy Fulbright Commission, in 1978 he was Senior Lecturer at the University of Catania and in 2000, Chair at the University of Bologna. In 2001, he relinquished his post at Brown as Professor of History and was appointed Professor of Italian Studies. In 2005, he was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. From July 1, 2006, to June 30, 2011, Kertzer served as Provost at Brown.\n\nKertzer is the author of numerous books and articles on politics and culture, European social history, anthropological demography, 19th-century Italian social history, contemporary Italian society and politics, and the history of Vatican relations with the Jews and the Italian state. His book, \"The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara\", was a finalist for the National Book Award in Nonfiction in 1997. His \"The Popes Against the Jews,\" published in 2001, was subsequently described as \"one of the most critically acclaimed and contentious books of its genre and generation.\" The book analyzes the relation between the development of the Catholic Church and the growth of European anti-Semitism in the 19th and 20th centuries, arguing that the Vatican and several popes contributed actively to fertilizing the ideological ground that produced the Holocaust. The work produced intense discussion among scholars of European history and historians of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe follow-up work, \"The Pope and Mussolini: The Secret History of Pius XI and the Rise of Fascism in Europe\" (2014), examined documentary evidence from the Vatican archives, arguing that Pope Pius XI played a significant role in supporting the rise of Fascism and Benito Mussolini in Italy, but not of Nazi Germany. The book won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography in April 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843180", "title": "North Vancouver—Burnaby", "text": "North Vancouver—Burnaby\n\nNorth Vancouver—Burnaby was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Burnaby—Seymour and Capilano ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Burnaby—Kingsway and North Vancouver ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843183", "title": "Okanagan North", "text": "Okanagan North\n\nOkanagan North was a federal electoral district in the province of British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Kamloops—Cariboo, Okanagan Boundary and Okanagan—Kootenay ridings. It was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Okanagan Centre and Okanagan—Shuswap ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the North Okanagan Regional District and part of the Central Okanagan Regional District lying east of Electoral Area G and Electoral Area H. It became part of Okanagan Centre in 1987\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843184", "title": "Okanagan—Similkameen", "text": "Okanagan—Similkameen\n\nOkanagan—Similkameen was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThe riding was created in 1976 from parts of Fraser Valley East, Kamloops—Cariboo and Okanagan Boundary ridings.\n\nIt consisted of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843186", "title": "Prince George—Bulkley Valley", "text": "Prince George—Bulkley Valley\n\nPrince George—Bulkley Valley was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 2004.\n\nThis was a large, rural riding in northern B.C.\n\nThis electoral district was created in 1976 from parts of Prince George—Peace River, Skeena and Kamloops—Cariboo ridings.\n\nThis district was abolished in 2003. Parts of it went to Cariboo—Prince George, Skeena—Bulkley Valley, Prince George—Peace River and Kamloops–Thompson ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843188", "title": "Richmond—South Delta", "text": "Richmond—South Delta\n\nRichmond—South Delta was a federal electoral district in the province of British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada between 1979 and 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Burnaby—Richmond—Delta riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Member of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843189", "title": "Sonya Hartnett", "text": "Sonya Hartnett\n\nSonya Louise Hartnett (born 1968 in Box Hill, Victoria) is an Australian author of fiction for adults, young adults, and children. She has been called \"the finest Australian writer of her generation\". For her career contribution to \"children's and young adult literature in the broadest sense\" Hartnett won the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award from the Swedish Arts Council in 2008, the biggest prize in children's literature.\n\nShe has published books as Sonya Hartnett, S. L. Hartnett, and Cameron S. Redfern.\n\nHartnett was thirteen years old when she wrote her first novel and fifteen when it was published for the adult market in Australia, \"Trouble All the Way\" (Adelaide: Rigby Publishers, 1984). For years she has written about one novel annually. Although she is often classified as a writer of young adult fiction, Hartnett does not consider this label entirely accurate: \"I've been perceived as a young adult writer whereas my books have never really been young adult novels in the sort of classic sense of the idea.\" She believes the distinction is not so important in Britain as in her native land.\n\nAccording to the National Library of Australia, \"The novel for which Hartnett has achieved the most critical (and controversial) acclaim was \"Sleeping Dogs\"\" (1995). \"A book involving incest between brother and sister and often critiqued as 'without hope', Sleeping Dogs generated enormous discussion both within Australia and overseas.\"\n\nMany of Hartnett's books have been published in the UK and in North America. For \"Thursday's Child\" (2000, UK 2002), she won the annual Guardian Children's Fiction Prize, a once-in-a-lifetime book award judged by a panel of British children's writers. In 2008 she won the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award which is administered by the Swedish Arts Council.\n\nIn 2006, Hartnett was involved with some controversy regarding the publication of \"Landscape with Animals\", published under the pseudonym Cameron S. Redfern. The book contains many sex scenes and Hartnett was almost immediately \"outed\" as the author. She said that she wanted to avoid the book being accidentally shelved with her work for children in libraries and denied that she used a pseudonym to evade responsibility for the work or as a publicity stunt à la Nikki Gemmell's \"The Bride Stripped Bare\". In a review published in \"The Age\", Peter Craven savaged the book describing it as an \"overblown little sex shocker\", a \"tawdry little crotch tickler\" and lamented that Hartnett was \"too good a writer to put her name to this indigestible hairball of spunk and spite\". It was defended vigorously in \"The Australian\" by Marion Halligan (\"I haven't read many books by Hartnett, but I think this is a much more amazing piece of writing than any of them\") who chastised Craven for missing the joke (\"How could an experienced critic get that so wrong?\") and wonders why female authors writing frankly about sex is so frowned upon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843190", "title": "Surrey—White Rock—North Delta", "text": "Surrey—White Rock—North Delta\n\nSurrey—White Rock—North Delta was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1988.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Burnaby—Richmond—Delta and Surrey—White Rock ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed into Delta, Surrey North and Surrey—White Rock ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843192", "title": "USS Peterson (DE-152)", "text": "USS Peterson (DE-152)\n\nUSS \"Peterson\" (DE–152) was an \"Edsall\" class destroyer escort, the first United States Navy ship so named. This ship was named for Chief Water Tender Oscar V. Peterson (1899–1942), who was awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously for his actions during the Battle of the Coral Sea.\n\n\"Peterson\" was laid down 28 February 1943 by Consolidated Steel Corporation, Orange, Texas; launched 15 May 1943; sponsored by Mrs. Lola B. Peterson; and commissioned 29 September 1943, Lieutenant Commander Richard F. Rea, USCG, in command.\n\n\"Peterson\" moved to Galveston, Texas, 6 October 1943 to continue her outfitting, then sailed by way of Algiers, Louisiana to Bermuda for shakedown. She reported to Charleston, South Carolina, for a brief post-shakedown upkeep 22 November, and six days later was en route to New York City, arriving the last day of the month.\n\nHer first voyage between New York and Casablanca, French Morocco, commenced 2 December when \"Peterson\" sailed for Norfolk, Virginia to join the main body of a North Africa bound convoy. She returned to New York 18 January 1944.\n\n\"Peterson\" then shifted her activity to Northern Europe, making ten voyages to British and French ports. On the first of these voyages, \"Peterson\" with the other escorts of Division 22 steamed from New York 1 March to screen a fast oiler convoy to Derry, Northern Ireland. On this voyage a submarine sank \"Leopold\" (DE-319).\n\n\"Peterson\" arrived with the convoy at Derry and returned to New York 28 March where she was joined by . Departing New York 15 April with an Ireland bound convoy, \"Peterson\" was detached the following day to escort two merchant ships, which had collided, back to New York. En route to rejoin the convoy later on the same day, Peterson joined \"Gandy\" and in rescuing survivors of the torpedoed \"Pan Pennsylvania\" and destroying the attacker. At 13:45 \"Joyce\" reported a hot sound contact and the last survivors scrambled on board \"Peterson\" just as \"Joyce\" dropped a pattern of depth charges. The submarine shot to the surface at 14:00. \"Gandy\" opened fire on the U-boat which returned fire until rammed with a glancing blow by \"Gandy\" two minutes later. \"Peterson\" commenced firing at 14:04 to lay open the conning tower, and as she passed alongside the submarine, fired two shallow-set depth charges at close range from her starboard “K” guns. At 1409 the submarine surrendered and the crew commenced abandoning the sinking boat. \"Joyce\" picked up the crew and slid beneath the waves at 14:30. The three escorts rejoined the convoy and steamed safely to Lisahally, Northern Ireland, returning to New York 12 May 1944.\n\nThe sunken German U-boat was found on 23 July 2012 in deep water about south of Nantucket, Massachusetts.\n\"Peterson\" made three more convoy voyages to Derry and return. She then made successive voyages from New York to Plymouth, England (6 October–5 November 1944); from New York to Cherbourg, France and Plymouth, England (23 November – 24 December); from New York to Liverpool, England (10 January–9 February 1945); from New York to Le Havre, France and Southampton, England (27 February – 29 March); and from Boston to Greenock, Scotland and Liverpool, England, returning to New York 16 April.\n\nAfter an overhaul to fit her for extended duty in the Pacific, \"Peterson\" departed New York 4 June 1945 with the rest of Escort Division 22 for exercises at Culebra Island, and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. She transited the Panama Canal 23 June, called at San Diego for voyage repairs, and arrived Pearl Harbor 16 July. With the end of the war, she reported to Commander Amphibious Group 8 and Commander Transport Squadron 18 for duty.\n\n\"Peterson\" departed Pearl Harbor the last day of August 1945 with an LST convoy. Calling at Saipan en route, the convoy arrived off Wakayama, Japan, 27 September and \"Peterson\" assumed patrol in the Inland Sea until 29 October. On that day she set course for the United States, calling at Pearl Harbor, and arriving San Diego 17 November. She shifted to San Pedro the following day. She got underway for the east coast, transiting the Panama Canal 6 December. Three days later off the coast of Florida, a PBM–3D (Mariner) landed close aboard to ask assistance. Peterson towed the disabled plane to Ponce de Leon Inlet where a crash boat from New Smyrna took over the tow. She then continued up the coast to Charleston, South Carolina, arriving 10 December 1945.\n\n\"Peterson\" sailed for Jacksonville, Florida, 14 January 1946, arriving the following day to commence her inactivation. She was placed out of commission in reserve at Green Cove Springs, Florida, 1 May 1946. During her first period of commissioning, \"Peterson\" was manned by a U.S. Coast Guard crew. During her second commissioning period, she was manned by a U.S. Navy crew.\n\n\"Peterson\" recommissioned in the Boston Naval Shipyard, 2 May 1952, Lt. Comdr. Kay S. Irwin in command. \"Peterson\" spent the next five years operating with Escort Squadron 10 off the east coast of the United States, from Newport, Rhode Island, to Key West, Florida, and in the Caribbean Sea. During these years she saw considerable duty as Fleet Sonar Schoolship at Key West. In July 1953 she visited Bergen, Norway, and Copenhagen, Denmark. In October 1954 she conducted simulated convoy escort exercises to waters off Hamilton Inlet, Labrador. In July 1955 she cruised to Edinburgh, Scotland, and Copenhagen. In May 1957 while in the Caribbean she tracked Jupiter missiles fired from Cape Canaveral and in August played a vital role in the first successful recovery of a missile nose cone, attaching a buoy-float to the nose cone flotation unit.\n\n\"Peterson\" put to sea 3 September 1957 with fifteen other warships and eleven auxiliary vessels of Task Force 88.1, bound for Portland, England. She reached Portland 14 September and was underway the next day for strenuous North Atlantic Treaty Organization maneuvers. She conducted independent reconnaissance patrol off Sweden until 19 September when she was joined by \"Huse\" (DE-145), two Canadian destroyers and a Dutch cruiser, for patrol off southern Sweden, and then to Frederikshaven, Denmark, where she arrived 23 September. She departed that port in company with \"Huse\" the next day for maneuvers in the North Sea and reached Le Havre, France, 30 September. After a visit to Dunkirk, France, she returned to Newport 21 October.\n\"Peterson\" became a unit of the newly created Destroyer Escort Squadron Twelve 1 November and arrived at Key West 24 November for another tour of service as schoolship for the Fleet Sonar School. She departed Key West 23 January 1958 for a Caribbean training cruise with her squadron. In May \"Peterson\" assisted in the first recovery of a full-size missile nose cone that had penetrated the atmosphere. She resumed her Fleet Sonar schoolship duty at Key West 22 May 1958 and got underway 8 August for competitive exercises off Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. She arrived Kingston, Jamaica 14 August 1958 and put to sea within fifteen hours on an emergency mercy mission to deliver badly needed water to a rescue tug tending a Greek freighter aground about 150 miles south of Kingston.\n\n\"Peterson\" resumed schoolship duties at Key West 18 August 1958 and put to sea 3 January 1959 for waters off the north coast of Cuba, standing by with other ships of her task group in the event American citizens in Havana might need her protection. She returned to Key West 6 January and continued services for the Fleet Sonar School. She departed 24 August to participate in \"Operation Deep Freeze 60.\" She passed through the Panama Canal and arrived Dunedin, New Zealand, 22 September. A unit of Task Force 43, she got underway six days later and steamed to Ocean Weather Station (latitude 60 degrees south; longitude 170 degrees east). On that station midway between Antarctica and New Zealand, she acted as a weather communications and rescue ship for supply flights from Christchurch to the southernmost continent.\n\nFrom July 1961 to December 1963 \"Peterson\" served principally as a training ship for students of the U.S. Fleet Sonar School, Key West, Florida. In April 1962 she visited Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and Jamaica. During the second half of 1962 \"Peterson\" was a movie star, playing the role of the Japanese destroyer that rammed and sank PT–109. On 22 October 1962 \"Peterson\" suddenly found herself on a full war-time footing and bound full speed for quarantine duty off the Cuban coast during the Cuban Missile Crisis. She was ordered home in time for Christmas. \"Peterson\" visited Guantanamo Bay for training in January and July 1963.\n\nJanuary 1964 found \"Peterson\" patrolling the coasts of Colombia and Venezuela. She returned to Key West 23 February. For the balance of the year she operated out of Key West, mainly as Fleet Sonar Schoolship.\n\nIn June 1965 the \"Peterson\" was decommissioned for the last time in Norfolk, Virginia and was laid to rest in the inactive reserve fleet in Portsmouth, Virginia. Disposed of, sold by Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS) for scrapping, June 1974.\n\"Peterson\" received one battle star for World War II service. During peace time\nshe at one time held seven separate Battle Efficiency \"E\"s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843194", "title": "Of a Boy", "text": "Of a Boy\n\nOf a Boy (What The Birds See in the UK and US) is a 2002 novel by Sonya Hartnett about a lonely and troubled youth.\nThe omnipresent narrator follows the plight of Adrian, a 9 year old child, who was taken away from his mother as she was \"unfit to care for him\". Adrian spends his days thinking of things that unsettle him such as sea monsters and growing purple hair. One of the things that most disturb him is the fact that three children, surnamed Metford, disappear from a neighborhood near his around the beginning of the book.\n\nShortly after the disappearance of the Metford children, a twelve-year-old girl called Nicole moves in across the street from Adrian. She has no friends and doesn't attend school, but she mystifies Adrian and he soon becomes obsessed with her as he loses his only friend Clinton. The novel ends tragically with Adrian and Nicole falling beneath a pool cover (while trying to find the abducted children) in winter and being unable to break through to the air. The story ends with Adrian's grandmother believing him to be abducted, just as the Metford children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843196", "title": "Nutritional genomics", "text": "Nutritional genomics\n\nNutritional genomics, also known as nutrigenomics, is a science studying the relationship between human genome, nutrition and health. People in the field work toward developing an understanding of how the whole body responds to a food via systems biology, as well as single gene/single food compound relationships.\n\nNutritional science originally emerged as a field that studied individuals lacking certain nutrients and the subsequent effects, such as the disease scurvy which results from a lack of vitamin C. As other diseases closely related to diet (but not deficiency), such as obesity, became more prevalent, nutritional science expanded to cover these topics as well. Nutritional research typically focuses on preventative measure, trying to identify what nutrients or foods will raise or lower risks of diseases and damage to the human body.\n\nFor example, Prader–Willi syndrome, a disease whose most distinguishing factor is insatiable appetite, has been specifically linked to an epigenetic pattern in which the paternal copy in the chromosomal region is erroneously deleted, and the maternal loci is inactivated by over methylation. Yet, although certain disorders may be linked to certain single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or other localized patterns, variation within a population may yield many more polymorphisms.\n\nObesity is one of the most widely studied topics in nutritional genomics. Due to genetic variations among individuals, each person could respond to diet differently. By exploring the interaction between dietary pattern and genetic factors, the field aims to suggest dietary changes that could prevent or reduce obesity.\n\nThere appear to be some SNPs that make it more likely that a person will gain weight from a high fat diet; for people with AA genotype in the FTO gene showed a higher BMI compared those with TT genotype when having high fat or low carbohydrate dietary intake. The APO B SNP rs512535 is another diet-related variation; the A/G heterozygous genotype was found to have association with obesity (in terms of BMI and waist circumference) and for individuals with habitual high fat diet (>35% of energy intake), while individuals with GG homozygotes genotype are likely to have a higher BMI compared to AA allele carriers. However, this difference is not found in low fat consuming group (<35% of energy intake).\n\n"}
{"id": "1843198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843198", "title": "Turkey at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Turkey at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nTurkey competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\nIn its fifth Olympic archery competition, Turkey again came within one victory of a medal. The women's team again made it to the semifinal before losing there. In the bronze medal match, they were defeated by Germany to eliminate them from medal contention.\n\nWomen's Team Competition:\n\nMen's Team Competition:\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nMen's Pole Vault\n\nWomen's 1,500m\n\nWomen's 5,000m\n\nWomen's Discus\n\nWomen's Marathon\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Flyweight (– 51 kg)\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (– 60 kg)\n\nMen's Light Welterweight (– 63.5 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's Mistral\n\nMen's Single Handed Dinghy (Finn)\n\nWomen's Mistral\n\nOpen Laser\n\nMen's 200 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 400 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200 m Individual Medley\n\nWomen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nWomen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's 200 m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nMen\n\n"}
{"id": "1843200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843200", "title": "Burnaby—Kingsway", "text": "Burnaby—Kingsway\n\nBurnaby—Kingsway was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Burnaby, North Vancouver—Burnaby and Vancouver Kingsway ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Burnaby—Douglas riding.\n\nFor its entire history it was represented by New Democratic Party Member of Parliament (MP) Svend Robinson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843203", "title": "Capilano—Howe Sound", "text": "Capilano—Howe Sound\n\nCapilano—Howe Sound was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Capilano and Cariboo—Chilcotin ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into West Vancouver—Sunshine Coast riding.\n\nIt consisted of the northwest part of the North Vancouver District Municipality, the District Municipality of West Vancouver, the part of electoral Area B of the Greater Vancouver Regional District west of the Capilano River and north of Electoral Area A, the Village of Lions Bay, Electoral Area C of the Greater Vancouver Regional District, and the Squamish-Lillooet Regional District, except Electoral Areas A and B and the Village of Lillooet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843204", "title": "Delta (electoral district)", "text": "Delta (electoral district)\n\nDelta is a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997 and since 2015.\n\nThe 1988–1997 edition of this riding was created in 1987 from parts of Fraser Valley West, Richmond—South Delta and Surrey—White Rock—North Delta ridings. During this period of time, the riding consisted of the District Municipality of Delta and the southwest part of the District Municipality of Surrey. It was abolished in 1996, and became part of Delta—South Richmond.\n\nThe riding was recreated following the 2012 federal electoral boundaries redistribution. The boundaries for this edition of the riding are perfectly coterminal with the District Municipality of Delta. The riding was created from parts of Newton—North Delta and Delta—Richmond East. These new boundaries were legally defined in the 2013 representation order, which came into effect upon the call of the 42nd Canadian federal election, scheduled for October 2015.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\nHistoric ridings with the name Delta:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843207", "title": "Kootenay West—Revelstoke", "text": "Kootenay West—Revelstoke\n\nKootenay West—Revelstoke was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. This riding was created in 1987 from Kootenay West riding. It was eliminated in 1996 when it was merged into the new riding of West Kootenay—Okanagan.\n\nIt consisted of Electoral Area B of the Columbia-Shuswap Regional District, the city of Revelstoke, the northwest part of the Central Kootenay Regional District, and the eastern part of the Kootenay Boundary Regional District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843211", "title": "Mission—Coquitlam", "text": "Mission—Coquitlam\n\nMission—Coquitlam was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Mission—Port Moody riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Dewdney—Alouette riding.\n\nIt consisted of: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843212", "title": "New Westminster—Burnaby", "text": "New Westminster—Burnaby\n\nNew Westminster—Burnaby is a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997 and since 2015.\n\nThe 1988–1997 edition of this riding was created in 1987 from parts of Burnaby and New Westminster—Coquitlam ridings. The riding consisted of the City of New Westminster and the southern part of the District Municipality of Burnaby. It was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into New Westminster—Coquitlam—Burnaby.\n\nThe riding was recreated following the 2012 federal electoral boundaries redistribution and was legally defined in the 2013 representation order. It was created from parts of Burnaby—New Westminster and New Westminster—Coquitlam. Its boundaries were legally defined in the 2013 representation order, which came into effect upon the call of the 42nd Canadian federal election, scheduled for October 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843213", "title": "North Island—Powell River", "text": "North Island—Powell River\n\nNorth Island—Powell River is a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997, and again from 2015 onward. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Comox—Powell River riding. The electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Vancouver Island North riding.\n\nThe riding consisted of the southern part of Kitimat-Stikine Regional District, the Central Coast Regional District, the Mount Waddington Regional District, the northwest part of the Comox-Strathcona Regional District, the Sunshine Coast Regional District, and the Powell River Regional District, except Electoral Area E.\n\nNorth Island—Powell River was re-created (initially called Vancouver Island North—Comox—Powell River) by the 2012 federal electoral boundaries redistribution and was legally defined in the 2013 representation order. It came into effect upon the call of the 42nd Canadian federal election, which was held 19 October 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843216", "title": "Poland at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Poland at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nPoland competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. 187 competitors, 129 men and 58 women, took part in 133 events in 20 sports.\n\nPoland entered three women and two men in its seventh appearance in Olympic archery. Four of the five archers won their first match, with Joanna Nowicka making it to the quarterfinal and taking eighth place.\n\n\n\nTen fencers, six men and four women, represented Poland in 2000.\n\n Advanced to semifinals\n\n\n\nPoland competed in seven Sailing events with three top 10 finishes.\n\nWomen\n\n"}
{"id": "1843217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843217", "title": "Okanagan Centre", "text": "Okanagan Centre\n\nOkanagan Centre was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Okanagan North and Okanagan—Similkameen, and eliminated in 1996 when it was merged into Kelowna.\n\nOkanagan Centre consisted of the Central Okanagan Regional District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843220", "title": "Okanagan—Similkameen—Merritt", "text": "Okanagan—Similkameen—Merritt\n\nOkanagan—Similkameen—Merritt was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from Okanagan—Similkameen, and eliminated in 1996 when it was divided between Okanagan—Coquihalla and West Kootenay—Okanagan.\n\nThe riding consisted of the west part of the Kootenay Boundary Regional District, the Okanagan-Similkameen Regional District, Electoral Areas M and N of the Thompson-Nicola Regional District, and the city of Merritt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843223", "title": "Surrey—White Rock—South Langley", "text": "Surrey—White Rock—South Langley\n\nSurrey—White Rock—South Langley (formerly known as Surrey—White Rock, South Surrey—White Rock and Surrey) was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 1979 and from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis electoral district included the City of White Rock, the southern portions of the Township of Langley, and the City of Surrey.\n\nThis riding was created in 1966 as \"Surrey\" from New Westminster riding.\n\nIn 1971, it was renamed \"South Surrey—White Rock\".\n\nIn 1976, South Surrey—White Rock was abolished and redistributed into Fraser Valley West and Surrey—White Rock—North Delta ridings.\n\nThe riding was re-created in 1987 as \"Surrey—White Rock\" from Fraser Valley West and Surrey—White Rock—North Delta ridings.\n\nIn 1990, it was renamed \"Surrey—White Rock—South Langley\".\n\nIn 1996, it was abolished, with parts of it going to form South Surrey—White Rock—Langley riding.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843227", "title": "Rainie Yang", "text": "Rainie Yang\n\nRainie Yang (; born 4 June 1984) is a Taiwanese singer, actress, and television host.\n\nYang was born and raised in Taipei, Taiwan, her father's ancestors were from Guangdong, China. She spoke Cantonese at home. By the time she was 13, she had to start working because her father's business failed, which led to her parents being divorced. She attended Hwa Kang Arts School which specialized in performance arts.\n\nYang began her career in 2000 as a member of Taiwanese girl group 4 in Love, where she was given the stage name Rainie. The group's popularity in the musical industry achieved limited success. After they disbanded in 2002, Yang continued to pursue her career in the entertainment industry as a TV host, hosting shows such as the variety show \"Guess\". After playing supporting roles in a series of Taiwanese TV dramas, including the highly popular pan-Asia hit Taiwanese series \"Meteor Garden\", she landed the leading role as Qi Yue, in the Taiwanese drama \"Devil Beside You\" with Mike He in 2005. In the same year, she released her debut album, \"My Intuition\", featured the hit song \"Intuition\" as the theme song of \"Devil Beside You\" and \"Ideal Lover\".\n\nIn 2006, she released her second album, \"Meeting Love\". On 8 January 2007, Yang recorded her last \"Guess\" episode due to her busy schedule and focus on her musical and acting career. Hoping to portray herself as a \"serious\" actress, Yang co-starred in the lesbian-themed film \"Spider Lilies\" with Isabella Leong. However, after co-starring in \"Spider Lilies\", Yang returned to her previous cute image by becoming the leading role in the drama \"Why Why Love\", with Mike He and Kingone Wang, which aired during the summer of 2007. She subsequently released her third album, \"My Other Self\" on 7 September 2007. It features the theme song from \"Why Why Love\", \"Lacking Oxygen\" and the insert song \"Perfect Example\".\n\nOn 23 April 2008, while filming the Taiwanese drama \"Miss No Good\" in San Chih, Taiwan, Yang fell heavily from the stairs, and was sent to Mackay Memorial Hospital in Taipei. The stairs were located between the third floor, where the dressing room was located, and the first floor, where the film set was located. The crew originally thought the falling object was a light frame, but upon hearing a groan, they realized it was her. After an X-ray examination, doctors diagnosed Yang's injury as a spinal contusion. After leaving the hospital, producer Angie Chai took Yang to a Chinese massage therapist. \"Miss No Good\", starring Yang and Will Pan, was aired during the fall and winter of 2008 and met with much success. During this period of time, she also released her 4th album, \"Not Yet a Woman\", which features the insert song \"Too Much Trouble\" and the theme song \"Take Me Away\" that were featured \"Miss No Good\".\n\nIn 2009, Yang starred in \"To Get Her\" with Jiro Wang of Fahrenheit and George Hu. Then she filmed \"The Child's Eye\" in Thailand, a horror flick directed by the Pang Brothers with Elanne Kong, and also Taiwanese drama \"Hi My Sweetheart\" with Show Lo. After promoting \"Hi My Sweetheart\", Yang released her fifth album, \"Rainie & Love...?\", on the New Year's Day of 2010. Due to the success of \"Devil Beside You\" and \"Miss No Good\" overseas, Yang entered J-pop industry in 2010 by releasing a Japanese version of her hit \"Intuition\" as her first Japanese-language single.\nYang released her first compilation album, \"Whimsical World Collection\", on 23 April 2010. It consists of 3 new tracks, 35 previously released tracks and 15 music videos from her previous five studio albums. On 22 October 2010, shewon Best Actress at the 45th Golden Bell Awards, for her role as Chen Baozhu in \"Hi My Sweetheart\".\n\nIn 2011, Yang released her sixth studio album \"Longing for...\", which features the song \"We Are All Silly\", an interlude of \"Love You\".\n\nIn 2012, Yang starred in the romantic short film, \"Heartbeat Love\", with Show Lo. On 17 August 2012, she released her seventh studio album \"Wishing for Happiness\". Her second concert tour, \"Love Voyage\", embarked on December 14.\n\nOn 23 August 2013, Yang released her eighth studio album \"Angel Wings\".\n\nIn 2014, Yang signed to EMI Taiwan, a revived label that is now a subsidiary of Universal Music Taiwan. Her ninth studio album, \"A Tale of Two Rainie\", was released on 12 December 2014. In the same year, she starred in the Chinese drama series \"Love at Second Sight\".\n\nOn 30 September 2016, her tenth studio album \"Traces of Time in Love\" was released. It was nominated for three awards at the 28th Golden Melody Awards, including Song of the Year, Best Lyricist, and Best Single Producer for the title track \"Traces of Time in Love\". Yang thus joined the list of having been nominated for all three prestigious entertainment awards in Taiwan, namely the Golden Bell Awards (television), the Golden Horse Awards (film) and the Golden Melody Awards (music). In the same year, Yang starred in the Taiwanese television series \"Life Plan A and B\".\n\nOn 27 November 2019, Yang released her eleventh studio album \"Delete Reset Grow\".\n\nYang dated classmate Alien Huang while they were in high school. Their relationship ended when Yang made her debut in the entertainment industry and dropped out of high school. Since December 2014, she has been dating Chinese singer-songwriter Li Ronghao, who wrote the song \"Xing Fu Guo Zi\" (\"幸福果子\" ) for Yang in 2007. On 11 July 2019, Li announced that Yang accepted his wedding proposal on his 34th birthday.\n\nAs of 17 September 2019, Yang and Li Ronghao has confirmed they have obtained their marriage license. \n\n"}
{"id": "1843230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843230", "title": "Gander—Grand Falls", "text": "Gander—Grand Falls\n\nGander—Grand Falls was a federal electoral district in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2004.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Gander—Twillingate and Grand Falls—White Bay—Labrador ridings. It was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Bonavista—Exploits, Humber—St. Barbe—Baie Verte and Random—Burin—St. George's ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nGeorge Baker, a Liberal, represented the riding from the 1997 general election until he was appointed to the Senate of Canada in 2002. Rex Barnes, a Progressive Conservative, won the 2002 by-election held to replace Baker, and represented the riding for the remainder of that Parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843233", "title": "One Sweet Day", "text": "One Sweet Day\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" is a song by American singer Mariah Carey and R&B group Boyz II Men. The song was released on as the second single from Carey's fifth studio album, \"Daydream\". The artists co-wrote the song with Walter Afanasieff, who co-produced it with Carey. The song speaks about the death of a loved one, how the protagonist took their presence for granted and misses them, and finally about seeing the person in heaven. Both Carey and Boyz II Men wrote the song about specific people in their lives, being inspired by sufferers of the AIDS epidemic, which was globally prevalent at that time.\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" received widespread acclaim from critics, many of whom praised its lyrical content and vocals, as well as calling it a standout track from \"Daydream\". It was ranked first in \"Rolling Stone\"s reader's poll for the Best Collaboration of All Time. The song spent 16 weeks atop the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the United States, becoming the longest-running number one song in the chart's history at the time, a record held for 23 years. Subsequently, \"Billboard\" ranked it as the ninth best charting single of the 1990s. Internationally, the song topped the charts in Canada and New Zealand and reached the top ten in Australia, Belgium, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nCarey performed \"One Sweet Day\" live alongside Boyz II Men at the 38th Grammy Awards ceremony, held on February 26, 1996. Additionally, the song was performed at Princess Diana's memorial service in September 1997. \"One Sweet Day\" was part of the set list on several of Carey's succeeding tours, making its debut during the album's accompanying set of concerts, the Daydream World Tour. It is featured on her compilation albums, \"#1's\" (1998), \"Greatest Hits\" (2001), \"The Ballads\" (2008), and \"#1 to Infinity\" (2015).\n\nThe music video for \"One Sweet Day\" was filmed in February 1995, and features snippets of Carey and Boyz II Men in and around the studio, and recording the song. The busy schedule of both Carey and Boyz II Men did not allow time to record a proper video. The singer later said that she was content a real music video was never filmed, fearing that no video could truly capture the song's strong lyrical message. Critics felt the video choice was wise, and agreed that the simple concept paid homage to the song's selfless message.\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" was a song that Carey wrote with the R&B group Boyz II Men. After Carey's friend and past collaborator David Cole (of C&C Music Factory) died, she began writing and developing a song that would pay homage to him and all the friends and family her fans had lost along life's journey. Carey had the idea and chorus composed, and after meeting with Boyz II Men, they realized they too had a similar idea in development. Together, using Carey's chorus and idea, as well as the melody they had produced, they wrote and composed the song. The song was produced by Carey and Afanasieff, who built on the song's melody and added various grooves and beats. Carey expressed how the song was \"meant to be\" and how all the pieces fit into place:\n\n\"I wrote the initial idea for 'One Sweet Day' with Walter, and I had the chorus...and I stopped and said, 'I really wanna do this with Boyz II Men,' because...obviously I'm a big fan of theirs and I just thought that the work was crying out for them, the vocals that they do, so I put it away and said, 'Who knows if this could ever happen, but I just don't wanna finish this song because I want it to be our song if we ever do it together. [The] whole idea of when you lose people that are close to you, it changes your life and changes your perspective. When they came into the studio, I played them the idea for the song and when [it] was finished, they looked at each other, a bit stunned, and told me that Nathan \"Nate\" Morris had written a song for his road manager who had passed away. It had basically the same lyrics and fitted over the same chord changes. It was really, really weird, we finished the song right then and there. We were all kinda flipped about it ourselves. Fate had a lot to do with that. I know some people won't believe it, but we wouldn't make up such a crazy story.\"\nAfter they began working on the song, Carey began to incorporate other lyrics into the chorus, trying to make the song relatable to the AIDS epidemic that was in full force in the mid-1990s. Additionally, Mariah's sister Alison Carey had been diagnosed with HIV in 1988 when she was 27, an event that ruined their relationship and tore them apart. Carey has stated that she wrote the song hoping that all her fans that have lost someone could relate to \"One Sweet Day\" and maybe help ease the pain of the loss. Carey described the song as \"[the] whole idea of when you lose people that are close to you, it changes your life and changes our perspective.\"\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" is a \"big\" R&B ballad. It incorporates organ instrumentation and different contemporary grooves and beats into its primary arrangement, adding percussion and synthesizers as well, while incorporating \"flourishes and harmonies\" from both Carey and Boyz II Men. The song is set in the time signature common time and moves at a slow tempo of 64 beats per minute. It is written in the key of A major and features a basic chord progression of A–D–A–D–G, while the basic melodic line spans roughly an octave and a half from E to A; the piano in the piece ranges from D to A. The song contains choral lyrics written by Carey, who also arranged and co-produced the song alongside Walter Afanasieff. Author Chris Nickson complimented the song's instrumentation and arrangement, calling its use of synthesizers \"wise\" and \"efficient.\" Additionally, he claimed Afanasieff's production and Carey's vocal and production arrangement helped the song's vocals and lyrical content flow together. The song finishes with the last chorus and coda in the key of B major.\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" has been lauded with widespread acclaim from contemporary music critics. AllMusic's Stephen Thomas Erlewine praised the song for its craft and writing, commenting that \"[in] \"One Sweet Day,\" a duet with Boyz II Men, Carey appeals to both audiences equally because of the sheer amount of craft and hard work she puts into her albums. Ken Tucker from \"Entertainment Weekly\" felt the song truly highlighted the album, \"[One Sweet Day] radiates a breezy sexiness that Carey, for all the brazen hussiness of her public persona, rarely permits herself to reveal in song. In 2018, the magazine noted, \"Goosebumps, every time. Carey’s heavenly vocals, combined with the song’s universal message and the sweet harmonies of Boyz II Men\". Stephen Holden from \"The New York Times\" shared similar sentiments and wrote \"On 'One Sweet Day,' the singer joins forces with Boyz II Men, those masters of pleading post-doo-wop vocal harmonies, for a tender eulogy that suggests that the singers have been personally touched by the AIDS crisis.\" \"People\" felt the song was a \"stand-out track\" and called Carey's vocal performance \"bravura belting\".\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" won many prestigious awards throughout 1996. At the Blockbuster Entertainment Awards, the song won the award for \"Favorite Adult Contemporary Single Female 'One Sweet Day'\". \"One Sweet Day\" also won the award for \"Song of the Year\" at the BMI Awards and a \"Special Award for 16 weeks at #1\" at the Billboard Music Awards. Together, \"Daydream\" and \"One Sweet Day\" were nominated for six Grammy Awards at the 38th annual ceremony, however, to Carey's surprise, also to the surprise of many critics, they lost all of the nominations. In a readers' poll conducted by \"Rolling Stone\", the song was ranked first for the category of the Best Collaboration of All Time.\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" became Carey's tenth chart topping single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and Boyz II Men's fourth. The song remained at the peak for a record-breaking 16 consecutive weeks, from December 2, 1995 to March 16, 1996. It remained the only song to stay at number one on the chart for 16 weeks until 2017, when the record was tied by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee's \"Despacito\", featuring Justin Bieber. The record would remain until Lil Nas X's \"Old Town Road\", featuring Billy Ray Cyrus, broke the record in 2019, spending nineteen weeks atop the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nBoyz II Men had previously held this record twice, with \"End of the Road\" (1992) spending 13 weeks at the top and \"I'll Make Love to You\" (1994) spending 14. The former song shares this record with Brandy and Monica's \"The Boy Is Mine\", and the latter song shared its record with Whitney Houston's \"I Will Always Love You\". Carey's 2005 song \"We Belong Together\", The Black Eyed Peas's 2009 \"I Gotta Feeling\" and Mark Ronson's 2014 track, \"Uptown Funk\", managed to stay at number one for 14 weeks as well.\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" unseated \"Exhale (Shoop Shoop)\" by Whitney Houston at number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and was knocked off by Celine Dion's \"Because You Loved Me\". The single also debuted at number one, making Carey the first artist to have more than one number-one debut, and one of the four artists ever to have two consecutive singles debut at the top of the chart, along with Britney Spears, with \"3\" (2009) and \"Hold It Against Me\" (2011), and Drake, with \"God's Plan\" (2018) and \"Nice for What\" (2018) and Ariana Grande, with \"thank u, next\" (2018) and \"7 Rings\" (2019). \"One Sweet Day\" was the third best-selling single of 1995 in the US, with sales of over 1,300,000, with the second best-selling single being Carey's \"Fantasy\". The song spent 26 weeks in the top 40, was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and was ranked number nine on \"Billboard\"s Hot 100-decade retrospective.\n\nOutside the U.S., \"One Sweet Day\" was not as successful but did manage to reach the top-ten in over 13 countries and topped the chart in Canada and New Zealand, where it was certified platinum. In Canada, the song debuted on the \"RPM\" Singles Chart at number 89 on the \"RPM\" issue dated December 4, 1995, and reached the top of the chart on January 22, 1996. It was present on the chart for a total of 24 weeks, and ranked 12th on the \"RPM\" Year-end chart for 1996. It reached the top-two in Australia (platinum), The Netherlands; the top-five in France (silver) and Ireland and the top-ten in Belgium, Norway (platinum), Sweden and the United Kingdom (silver). In the UK, it is one of Carey's best-selling singles, with estimated sales of 255,000.\n\nThe song's music video was directed by Larry Jordan. When Carey and Boyz II Men got together to record \"One Sweet Day\", they did not have enough time to re-unite and film a video. Instead, a filming crew was present during the song's recording, and filmed bits of Carey and Boyz recording the song. Walter Afanasieff later told Fred Bronson that shooting the video was \"crazy\", stating, \"They had film crews and video guys, while I'm at the board trying to produce. And these guys were running around having a ball, because Mariah and them are laughing and screaming and they're being interviewed. And I'm tapping people on the shoulder. 'We've got to get to the microphone!' They're gone in a couple of hours, so I recorded everything they did, praying that it was enough.\" After the song's release, Carey expressed her contentment with the video, that she was happy a real music video was never filmed, fearing that no video could truly capture the song's \"precious message\". Critics agreed, feeling that the song was a perfect match for the video and its message. Aside from the recording sessions, the video also shared bits of Carey and Boyz bonding and sharing their ideas in the studio, where Carey felt they \"bonded\".\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" was performed at the 38th Annual Grammy Awards, held on February 28, 1996. During the performance, Carey wore a long black dress and matching sleeveless blouse, while the group wore white jackets and black pants. After the song's bridge, a choir of male and female vocalists took place on the rafters placed over the stage, all wearing white gowns. The song was also performed at the memorial service for Princess Diana in September 1997, where other performers included Elton John. During the service and song recital, Carey wore a conservative long black sheer gown, with long golden curls. Boyz II Men all wore similar matching dark suit and garments. The song became part of Carey's BET Christmas special in 2001, where she sang the song alongside Boyz II Men. During the special, Carey wore a red gown in honor of the show's holiday theme, and featured a long golden hairstyle. One of the male vocalists had already been switched, as one of the group members had already resigned.\n\nAside from live television appearances, the song was performed on many of Carey's tours. \"One Sweet Day\" was performed at every show on her Daydream World Tour (1996), where Boyz II Men were featured on a large projection screen. The footage was taken from Carey's filmed concert at Madison Square Garden in late 1995, and was played in sync with Carey's verses. A similar concept was used for her Butterfly World Tour (1998), with the addition of several live back up vocalists joining on stage. Additionally, the song was performed on select dates on her The Adventures of Mimi tour (2006). During the tour's filmed show in Anaheim California, the group joined Carey live on stage and performed the song together. For the segment of the show, Carey wore a long turquoise gown, with several slits and cuts fashioned into the sides. During the Angels Advocate Tour in 2010, Carey performed a snippet of the song in Singapore, with Trey Lorenz filling in for the group's verses.\n\nCarey also performed the song as a part of her 2015 Las Vegas residency, Mariah Carey Number 1's, with Lorenz reprising his role as well as Daniel Moore. She also performed the song as a part of her 2018–20 Las Vegas residency, The Butterfly Returns alongside Lorenz and Moore.\n\nIt was also performed on selected dates of her 2019 Caution World Tour.\n\n\"One Sweet Day\" was performed by the seven finalists on the seventh season of \"American Idol\". The performance was taped due to the \"Mariah Carey\" themed week, where all the competitors sang songs from Carey's repertoire. The song was additionally sung on the fifth season of the UK TV show \"The X Factor\", by the British boy-band JLS. Their performance received praise from all four judges, who commented how it was an \"impossibly hard song to sing\" because it was a \"Mariah song\". The song was also performed by John Adeleye during the seventh season \"The X Factor\". The theme of the night was \"#1 songs\". Shannon Magrane performed the song on the eleventh season of \"American Idol\" the week the contestants performed songs from their birth years. Andy Williams released a version in 2007 on his album, \"I Don't Remember Ever Growing Up\".\n\nWorldwide Cassette CD single\n\nJapanese CD maxi-single\n\nUK CD maxi-single #1\n\nUK CD maxi-single #2\n\nU.S. CD maxi-single\nCredits adapted from the \"Daydream\" liner notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843237", "title": "Karmatron", "text": "Karmatron\n\nKarmatrón y los Transformables (Karmatron and the Transformables) is a Mexican science fiction and fantasy comic book created by Oscar González Loyo, and published in 1986 by CEPSA. The weekly series was published only in Mexico, non-stop and during 5 years, from 1986 to 1991 (#298).\n\nThe comic is considered one of the first Mexican sci-fi super robot \"manga\" and is notable because of its once-per-week publication schedule, something uncommon at its time of release.\n\n\"Karmatron\" depicts the adventures of an extraterrestrial humanoid called Zacek (\"White Star\" in Maya language), emperor of the alien Zuyua people and also a Kundalini warrior that an ancient prophecy announced to be the one who could restore the balance between light and darkness in the universe. Zacek was the bearer of the powerful Kalpe-Om, a magical belt that allowed him to transform himself into \"Karmatron\", a 300 feet tall armoured spiritual warrior.\nKarmatron defended good and peace in all the universe, constantly fighting the forces of dark emperor Asura of Metnal and his evil god, the Master of Shadows, with the help of his numerous friends and his Transformables, an army of giant transformers. Later on, he created smaller ones -like Magneto and Warp.\n\nThe comic has been called a space opera by its author, though it also had certain elements of comedy, adventure, and fantasy.\n\nThe story starts millions of years ago, in a very distant place in the universe—Planet Zuyua—where Zacek lived peacefully as the youngest of two heirs to the Zuyuan throne. There, young Zacek learned advanced cybernetics as a career, and he often built robots, big and small, as a hobby. His father, emperor Canilek (\"Snakestar\", in mayan) was the founder and leader of the Great Universal Alliance (a galactic United Nations of sorts) that opposed emperor Asura's militaristic campaign of universal conquest.\n\nIn issue # 1, Asura's metnalian army invaded Planet Zuyua's capital city and forced the zuyuan people out of their own planet, as thousands of them were exterminated by emperor Asura's bloodthirsty occupation forces. In the middle of the attack, four giant robots programmed by Zacek to activate in case of peril suddenly burst into action, attacking Asura's soldiers and ships and wreaking havoc in the invading army.\n\nEnter the first of many \"Transformables\" (also known as \"Guerreros Estelares\" or \"Stellar Warriors\"): Titan, a robot/tank and the Transformables' leader; Aquarius, a robot/submarine; Stelaris, a speedy robot/spaceship and Unicorn, a robot/subterranean vehicle. These four unexpected robotic heroes helped the zuyuans to survive the invasion so they could plan their exodus to a safer planet.\n\nHowever, while zuyuan strategists planned an escape route from Planet Zuyua, emperor Canilek sent his two sons on a quest to seek the Planet of Eternity, a sacred, mystical place where spiritual warriors go to attempt to awake the Kundalini serpent that lived in Mount Meru, and thus gain the spiritual transcendence, wisdom, inner peace and power that comes with being a Kundalini. Canilek hoped that at least one of his sons became the prophetized Kundalini warrior who would defeat Asura and bring back peace to the universe. Unfortunately, Canilek's best friend and advisor, Aspier, was also a spy who informed emperor Asura of Canilek's plans. Aspier was also commanded by Asura to kill Canilek when the appropriate time came, which he gleefully did, helped by the turmoil of Asura's invasion.\n\nMeanwhile, Zacek and his older brother Nazul arrived at the Planet of Eternity, but as they reached the sacred serpent's chamber located in the depths of Mount Meru, a metnalian soldier who followed them by Asura's command assaulted the two princes (Asura knew of the prophecy of the Kundalini that would defeat him) and managed to grab Nazul and take him to his ship before he could go into the serpent's resting place. Zacek was unable to help his brother, because the heavy slab of stone that guarded the serpent's chamber entrance slammed shut in that precise moment, trapping him in there. A voice in the chamber told Zacek that he had no other choice than to follow his father's wishes and attempt to awake the Kundalini Serpent, which he reluctantly did. The zuyuan prince underwent the difficult task of awakening the sacred serpent, a feat that only the most spiritually enlightened and pure of heart could accomplish. Zacek managed to succeed in his mission, and became a full-fledged Kundalini warrior. Katnatek, the first Kundalini warrior (and the voice he heard when he entered the chamber) appeared before him then and gave him his Kalpe-Om, the magical item that allowed him to transform in the most powerful warrior of good in this universe (the audience is later informed that there are many possible universes, and each possible universe has its own Karmatron). By uttering a sacred mantra, Zacek transformed into Karmatron for the first time.\n\nFully equipped with his powerful new armor, Karmatron rushed then to Planet Metnal to save his brother, but he arrived too late. Emperor Asura tortured Nazul at his leisure, and then the dark emperor dumped him into Metnal's dreaded Darkness Zone, a place full of twisted, voracious man-eating beasts. Karmatron arrived at the Darkness Zone only to find the mangled corpse of Nazul still being devoured by the monsters who dwelled there. He also discovered that the evil emanations that impregnated the entire planet Metnal were very noxious to him (actually, evil in general was very noxious to him, because he used good spiritual power to fuel his powers) so he could only managed to escape rapidly from that horrid place with his brother's remains in his hands. Asura caught a glimpse of this awesome steel giant that came to his planet, and he became violently enraged then, for he acknowledge him for what he was, and knew him to be the source of many future problems.\n\nThe comic book followed Zacek's further adventures as he battled Asura across the galaxies, through many millennia, and the story was interrupted abruptly in issue # 298, with Karmatron fighting Asura here on Earth in modern times. The comic book was discontinued then and fans of all ages still hope for the saga to start anew.\n\nThe lost continent of Mu is featured as the location of one of the base cities of some of the main characters. The Moai of Easter Island are said to be images of a robot called Pazkuash, protector of Mu. Likewise, the ancient Olmec and Toltec statues and artifacts like the Olmec colossal heads and the Atlantean figures are -according to the plot- actually representations of the transformers Olmec and Toltec respectively.\n\nZacek, as all Kundalini Warriors, can manipulate prana energy to create various effects: He can teleport short distances; he has some degree of telekinetic talent; he can read minds and thoughts; he can use clairvoyance; he can read the psychic imprints on an object; he can turn invisible; he can fire bolts of positive spiritual energy (and he can make weapons out of this energy, such as shurikens or boomerangs) and he can make astral journeys, leaving his body behind him.\n\nAll Kundalini Warriors can stop their heartbeats completely in order to fool their enemies, or to avoid the effects of a lethal poison or radiation. This faked death is pretty convincing, as the warrior's body has effectively stopped functioning, but this is a very dangerous feat to perform. Kundalini Warriors can only do this three times in their lives. Zacek has already done it twice.\n\nAs Karmatron, Zacek has all his Kundalini powers enhanced by a tenfold (or more), he has super-strength, near physical invulnerability, the ability to fire a variety of types of rays and bolts, he has flight capability, he can survive in space or in any environment short of a nuclear inferno (which almost killed him once) and he can shrink to microscopic level.\n\nSeveral sci-fi and fantasy elements from the series were based in the boom of both genres during the late seventies and early eighties that took place in American mass media in the west, as well as the super robot and mecha anime genres from Japan in the east.\n\nThe \"ancient astronaut theory\" is one of the principal components of the main storyline in \"Karmatron\". Buddhism, Taoism, Esoterism and Mayanism are also featured heavily in the series. The comic itself was meant to deliver a pastiche of multiple philosophies, doctrines and new age concepts -some of them contradictory between them-, through the story of an intergalactic battle between two forces marked as definitive \"good versus evil\", reinforcing the intention of the author of establishing his own conception of Ying and Yang.\n\nThe last numbers of the comic were dedicated to themes that did not dealt with the comic story itself, including 8 whole numbers filled with a philosophical and metaphysical indoctrination manual called \"Manual del guerrero Kundalini\" (\"Kundalini Warrior Guide\").\n\nAccording to González Loyo most of the main characters, the basic concept and plot of \"Karmatron\" were created as early as 1978, but the lack of interested publishers pushed back the release of the comic for several years.\n\nThe original name for the series was originally intended to be \"Karmatrón y los Guerreros Estelares\" (\"Karmatron and the Stellar Warriors\"), as initially the robot allies of Karmatron were not supposed to transform at all. However, because of the tremendous success of later eighties animated series with transforming robots such as \"Transformers\" and \"Gobots\" the publisher requested Gonzalez Loyo to include characters of this type in the comic book, so finally the series would be renamed \"Karmatron y los Transformables\" to increase sales.\n\nThe series was finally published for the first time in February 1986, in a weekly format and until mid 1991. Each comic had 32 pages and the whole original series from the eighties lasted 298 issues.\n\nEach comic of the classic eighties series was made completely in one week, but sometimes past numbers were re-edited and relaunched or substituted by issues with great amounts of text to be able to complete its weekly schedule deadline. The creator of the series claims that during the 5 years of its publication the comic managed to have more than 100,000 comics sold. However, there is no registry or any other information to confirm such numbers.\n\nIn 1992 a new reboot edition was released in a black and white graphic novel format with redesigned characters, but this was a special limited series that lasted just a couple issues.\n\nIn December 2002 the comic series was again remade entirely by ¡Ka-Boom! Studio with a modified storyline, new art, improved modern digital coloring, new designs and a bigger, more standard comic book size format. The release schedule of each issue for the new reboot series has been extremely irregular with comics released after 2 months or up to a 1 year hiatus. So far 20 numbers have been published, with the latest issue released in late 2017.\n\nBecause of the title's popularity during the eighties, several issues included crossovers with popular characters from other Mexican independent comics of the same period.\n\nNumbers 100 to 104 of the original series -published in 1988- included a crossover called \"Karmatrón vs Destrúktor\" with several characters from \"Destrúktor, El Defensor Cósmico\" (\"Destruktor, The Cosmic Defender\"), another popular Mexican science fiction weekly comic from 1987 that lasted 33 issues and was drawn by artist Nicanor Peña Cabrera.\n\nFrom number 284 to 286 -published in 1991- another crossover called \"Aventuras en el Planeta Tier-rata\" (\"Adventures in Planet Earth-Rat\" or \"Adventures in Planet Terrat\") took place, where the protagonists were Jiva and Robby (\"Karmatron\" sidekicks and comic relief characters from Oscar González Loyo) as well as Visitor Zot and rats Fulano, Zutano and Mengano (from an indie comic by artist and author Francisco \"Paco\" Baca).\n\nThe first 45 issues of the first \"Karmatrón y los Transformables\" comic series -originally published in a weekly schedule during the year 1986- have been made available online by ¡Ka-Boom! Studio for free since 2008, with later numbers still pending publication.\n\nThe comic had a decent reception between Mexican comic book readers, as at the time -the late eighties- the amount of new national titles was close to zero, and even American franchises were scarce at that point, with only Grupo Editorial Vid and Novedades Editores taking on the occasional publishing of American comics.\n\nThe series was also successful partially because of the mid eighties boom of sci-fi anime and cartoons that took place in Mexican TV during that time after the release of animated series such as \"Mazinger Z\", \"Transformers\", \"Voltron\" and \"Robotech\". This allowed \"Karmatron\" to acquire some fame and notoriety in the comics medium in Mexico.\n\nHowever, as the storyline progressed and the philosophical ideas exposed and the mysticism turned more dense and evident, both the editorial and the public became more and more alienated until the comic ceased to be published in the early nineties.\n\nNevertheless, the series is fondly remembered by many Mexicans who were children during the eighties for its peculiar Japanese anime influenced art style and is still considered one of the first true Mexican sci-fi robot \"manga\" works. Also of note was its weekly publication schedule, an uncommon practice during its decade of publication. According to the creator of the comic many foreign comic artists and authors -who published their works monthly- couldn't believe that a weekly comic was even possible at the time of publication of \"Karmatron\".\n\nThe author stated in July 2016 that a Hollywood studio is interested in making a film adaptation of the franchise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843247", "title": "Berthier—Montcalm", "text": "Berthier—Montcalm\n\nBerthier—Montcalm was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2004.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from Berthier—Maskinongé—Lanaudière riding. It was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Berthier—Maskinongé, Laurentides—Labelle, Montcalm and Rivière-du-Nord ridings.\n\nBerthier—Montcalm consisted of the towns of Berthierville, Louiseville and Saint-Gabriel; parts of the Counties of Berthier, Joliette, Maskinongé, Montcalm, and Saint-Maurice. In 1996, the riding was redefined to consist of the cities of Berthierville, Laurentides and Saint-Gabriel, the county regional municipalities of Montcalm, D'Autray and Matawinie (including Manouane Indian Reserve No. 26), and the Village Municipality of New Glasgow and the Municipality of Sainte-Sophie in the County Regional Municipality of La Rivière-du-Nord.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843249", "title": "Belarus at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Belarus at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nBelarus competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. 139 competitors, 72 men and 67 women, took part in 109 events in 20 sports.\n\nIn its second Olympic archery competition, Belarus was represented by two women. They were not as successful as they had been four years earlier, but two of the archers still won in their first matches.\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 400m Hurdles\n\nMen's Shot Put\n\nMen's Discus\n\nMen's Javelin Throw\n\nMen's Hammer Throw\n\nMen's High Jump\n\nMen's 20 km Walk\n\nMen's 50 km Walk\n\nWomen's 800 metres\n\nWomen's 4x400 metres\n\nWomen's Shot Put\n\nWomen's Discus\n\nWomen's Hammer Throw\n\nWomen's Triple Jump\n\nWomen's High Jump\n\nWomen's 20 km Walk\n\nWomen's Heptathlon\n\nMen's Light Welterweight (– 63.5 kg)\n\nMen's Canoe Singles 500m\n\nWomen's Kayak Doubles 500m\n\nWomen's Kayak Fours 500m\n\nMen's 3m Springboard\n\nWomen's 3m Springboard\n\nFour fencers, all men, represented Belarus in 2000.\n\n\n\n\nWomen's Individual Competition\n\nMen's Individual Competition\n\nWomen's Single Sculls\n\nWomen's coxed eight\n\nMen's Double Handed Dinghy (470)\n\nMen's Laser\n\nWomen's Single Handed Dinghy (Europe)\n\nMen's 50m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Freestyle\n\nMen's 200m Freestyle\n\nMen's 400m Freestyle\n\nMen's 1500m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 4 × 200 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 50m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 200m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 400m Freestyle\n\nWomen's Duet\n\nWomen's Trampoline\n\nMen's Trampoline\n\nMen\nWomen\n"}
{"id": "1843251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843251", "title": "Gatineau—La Lièvre", "text": "Gatineau—La Lièvre\n\nGatineau—La Lièvre (formerly known as Chapleau) was a federal electoral district in the province of Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from Gatineau riding as \"Chapleau\", and renamed in 1988.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was merged into Gatineau riding.\n\nGatineau—La Lièvre consisted of the towns of Buckingham, Gatineau, Masson and Thurso, the Municipality of Notre-Dame-du-Laus in the County of Labelle, and parts of the County of Papineau.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843252", "title": "Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup", "text": "Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup\n\nKamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1976 from parts of Kamouraska and Rivière-du-Loup—Témiscouata ridings. It was abolished in 1996, and redistributed between Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup—Témiscouata—Les Basques and Bellechasse—Etchemins—Montmagny—L'Islet ridings.\n\nKamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup consisted of the City of Rivière-du-Loup; the Towns of La Pocatière, Pohénégamook, Saint-Pascal and Trois-Pistoles; the Counties of Kamouraska and Rivière-du-Loup; and the parish municipality of Sainte-Louise and the municipality of Saint-Roch-des-Aulnets in the County of L'Islet.\n\nIn 1987, the riding was redefined to consist of the towns of La Pocatière, Pohénégamook, Rivière-du-Loup, Saint-Pascal and Trois-Pistoles; the counties of Kamouraska and Rivière-du-Loup; the Parish Municipality of Sainte-Louise and the Municipality of Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies in the County of L'Islet; and the parish municipalities of Saint-Mathieu-de-Rioux and Saint-Simon; the municipalities of Saint-Guy and Saint-Médard; the Territory of Rimouski-Lac-Boisbouscache portion in the County of Rimouski.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843255", "title": "Lachine—Lac-Saint-Louis", "text": "Lachine—Lac-Saint-Louis\n\nLachine—Lac-Saint-Louis was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from Lachine and Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine East ridings. The electoral district was abolished in 1996 and redistributed between Lac-Saint-Louis and Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine ridings. \nLachine—Lac-Saint-Louis consisted of the City of Dorval, and the towns of Beaconsfield, Ile-Dorval, Lachine and Pointe-Claire.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843256", "title": "Laurentides (electoral district)", "text": "Laurentides (electoral district)\n\nLaurentides was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2003.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from Labelle riding. It was abolished in 2003, and redistributed between Laurentides—Labelle and Rivière-du-Nord \nLaurentides initially consisted of the towns of Estérel, Sainte-Adèle, Sainte-Agathe-des-Monts, Saint-Antoine and Saint-Jérôme, and parts of the Counties of Labelle and Montcalm.\n\nIn 1996, the riding was redefined to consist of the cities of Estérel, Saint-Antoine, Saint-Jérôme, Saint-Jovite, Sainte-Adèle and Sainte-Agathe-des-Monts, and parts of the County Regional Municipalities of Les Pays-d'en-Haut, La Rivière-du-Nord, and Le Laurentides.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843260", "title": "Québec (electoral district)", "text": "Québec (electoral district)\n\nQuébec (formerly known as Langelier) is a federal electoral district that has been represented in the House of Commons of Canada since 1968. It is located in Quebec City in the province of Quebec, Canada.\n\nThe main employer in the district is the provincial Government of Quebec.\n\nThe riding, in the Quebec region of Capitale-Nationale, consists of the central part of Quebec City, including the borough of La Cité and the southern part of the borough of Les Rivières, as well as the parish municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Anges.\n\nThe neighbouring ridings are Louis-Hébert, Louis-Saint-Laurent, Charlesbourg—Haute-Saint-Charles, Beauport—Limoilou, and Bellechasse—Les Etchemins—Lévis.\n\nThe riding gained a small fraction of territory from Louis-Hébert as a result of the 2012 electoral redistribution.\n\nEthnic groups: 91.4% White, 3.2% Indigenous, 1.6% Latino, 1.5% Black, 2.3% Other\nLanguages: 92.7% French, 1.9% English, 1.6% Spanish, 3.8% Other\nReligions: 79.6% Christian, 1.4% Muslim, 0.8% Other, 18.2% None\nMedian income: $28,603 (2010) \nAverage income: $35,961 (2010)\n\nThis riding was created as \"Langelier\" riding in 1966 from parts of Quebec East, Quebec South and Quebec West ridings. It was renamed \"Québec\" in 1990. Since its inception, this riding has always been represented by the party with the most support in Quebec.\n\nRiding associations are the local branches of political parties:\n\nNote: Mr. Papayre's result as a Marxist-Leninist candidate is compared to his result in the 1972 general election as an independent candidate. \n\nNote: Social Credit vote is compared to Ralliement créditiste vote in the 1968 election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843266", "title": "Saint-Maurice (electoral district)", "text": "Saint-Maurice (electoral district)\n\nSaint Maurice was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1867 to 1896. Saint-Maurice was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1968 to 2004.\n\nThe electoral district of Saint Maurice was formed in 1867, the continuation of the pre-confederation electoral division with the same delimitation. In 1892, it was merged with the district of Trois-Rivières to form Three Rivers and St. Maurice.\n\nA Saint-Maurice district was re-established in 1966 out of the former districts of Champlain and Saint-Maurice—Laflèche. The district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Berthier—Maskinongé and Saint-Maurice—Champlain ridings.\n\nA high-profile MP was the former Prime Minister of Canada Jean Chrétien, who represented the riding of Saint-Maurice—Laflèche for five years and the riding of Saint-Maurice for 29 years.\n\nThis ridings elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843267", "title": "Verchères (electoral district)", "text": "Verchères (electoral district)\n\nVerchères was a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1867 to 1892, and from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThe first Verchères electoral district was created in the \"British North America Act\", 1867, and abolished in 1892 when it was merged into Chambly riding. It covered the area bounded on the northeast by the County of Richelieu, on the northwest by the Saint Lawrence River, on the southeast by the Richelieu River, and on the southwest by the southeastern limits of the Parishes of Chambly, Saint Bruno and Boucherville, including all islands in the Saint Lawrence and Richelieu Rivers nearest to Verchères and wholly or in part opposite to it. Verchères comprised, therefore, the Parishes of Varennes, Verchères, Contrecoeur, Beloeil, Saint Marc, Saint Antoine and Sainte Julie.\n\nThe second Verchères electoral district was created in 1976. In 1998, the name of the riding was changed to \"Verchères—Les Patriotes\". See that article for information on the riding created in 1976.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\nBy-Election on Mr. Geoffrion being appointed Minister of Inland Revenue:\n\nBy-Election on Mr. Geoffrion's death:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843268", "title": "Douglas Wood (engineer)", "text": "Douglas Wood (engineer)\n\nDouglas Wood (born 30 June 1941), is an Australian construction engineer who had worked with the American military, and was held hostage in Iraq for six weeks between May and June 2005, before being rescued.\n\nWood was born in Whyalla, South Australia in 1941. He moved to Geelong where he attended the Geelong College and the Gordon Institute of TAFE, graduating as a mechanical engineer. In 1973 he left Australia to work in the United States, moving to Alamo, California, where he lived with his American wife and daughter, and employed by construction company Bechtel Corporation for 25 years. He later formed his own company and moved from his Californian home to Iraq. His work involved project management, and building nuclear plants; including the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating station in Arizona.\n\nIn 2005, Wood was kidnapped along with two Iraqi business associates and forced into a cell, while at a home in Baghdad, Iraq where he was organising a business deal. On 2 May 2005, Arabic television network al-Jazeera broadcast footage of Wood being held by armed captors, identified as the \"Shura Council\" of the \"Mujahideen of Iraq\". Wood is shown pleading for his life, and urges Australia and the United States to withdraw their troops from the country.\n\nOn 4 May 2005, Al-Jazeera broadcast an appeal by Foreign Minister Alexander Downer and Wood's brothers for the insurgents to free Wood.\nBy 7 May 2005, new footage emerged showing Wood, having sustained injuries, with machine guns held to his head. In the video, he read aloud an order to withdraw troops from Iraq within 72 hours. In response, Imam Sheik Alhilali flew to Iraq on 9 May 2005 to attempt to assist with Wood's release. It is during this time that Alhilali claims to have seen Wood, confirming that he was still alive.\n\nIn response to suggestions that the Australian government or Wood's family might make payments to the kidnappers, Prime Minister John Howard stated that Australia will neither pull troops out, nor pay any ransom that might be demanded. Downer added that any concession to demands could encourage further kidnappings. Wood's family conducted a public relations campaign in both Australia and Iraq, to convince Mr Wood's captors that he was a family man who sympathises with their cause. On 10 May 2005, the deadline given by the kidnappers expired at 5pm Australian time, however there was no indication that Wood had been killed.\n\nSix weeks after his capture, Wood was found and rescued by Iraqi army troops from a house in Ghazaliya, with assistance from U.S. forces. The Iraqi troops were performing a routine raid of a suspected weapons cache at the house, before finding Wood. Brigadier General Jaleel Khalaf Shewi, commander of the Iraqi brigade which rescued Wood, said a brief firefight had taken place during the operation, but there were no casualties on either side. It was revealed that Wood's Iraqi business associates were killed a month earlier.\n\nOn 15 June 2005, news of the rescue was relayed to senior Australian diplomat in Baghdad, Nick Warner. Footage was aired in Australia by CNN showing Wood talking to soldiers and sitting up in bed in a medical facility in Baghdad. Prime Minister John Howard subsequently acknowledged the efforts of Australia's Muslim community and senior cleric Sheikh Taj al-Din al-Hilali, while also confirming that no ransom had been paid. On 20 June, Muslim Sheik Taj Aldin Alhilali returned to Australia, claiming that Douglas Wood would have been killed if it had not been for his intervention. Wood has, however, denied that he ever spoke to Alhilali during his capture.\nIn 2009, Wood contacted Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, claiming that seven of the ten Iraqi soldiers who rescued Wood in 2005 have been systematically murdered. He argues that they were targeted after giving evidence against his kidnappers. In response, two Iraqi service personnel were granted permanent refugee visas under Australia’s humanitarian program, after an assessment of their applications found they were in grave and imminent danger.\n\nWood had previously worked on the failed Jervis Bay feasibility study for a local nuclear power plant, and in response to John Howard's plan for nuclear power production in Australia, Wood stated that he would happily live next door to a nuclear power plant, and would assist in development of an Australian nuclear energy industry. However, he stated his concerns that Australia's engineers and industrial suppliers are under-qualified to build a local plant.\n"}
{"id": "1843269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843269", "title": "Violin authentication", "text": "Violin authentication\n\nViolin authentication is the process of determining the maker and date of a violin. Multiple references may be required to assist in the process of authentication. This is often employed to combat fraudulent practices such as violin forgery and other forms of misrepresentation.\n\nMuch of the price of a fine violin is determined not just by the quality of the instrument, but by the maker. Names like Amati, Guarneri, and Stradivari have become synonymous with excellence in craftsmanship and tone. Relatively unknown makers, capable of producing above-average violins, know that they might be able to command tremendous prices simply by affixing the label of one of these early makers to the instruments of their making. The temptation has been, at times, irresistible. In its newest incarnation, however, instrument fraud appears to have shifted away from the production of clever fakes. The practice of merely misrepresenting the quality of the instrument is on the rise. To combat these and other such practices, the buyer may do well to consult an authenticator to confirm the maker, date, quality and price before purchasing an instrument, particularly when there are huge sums of money at stake.\n\nAuthenticating a violin is a multifaceted process that addresses two issues surrounding the authenticity of an instrument: the year in which it was manufactured, and the maker (essentially the information found on the label). To confirm these two attributes, the authenticator may employ several different techniques. The key to authentication is the idea that there is no single feature of a violin that exists independently of another. This implies that knowing the date narrows the number of makers, just as knowing the maker narrows the field of dates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843273", "title": "Justice League International", "text": "Justice League International\n\nJustice League International (JLI) is a DC Comics superhero team written by Keith Giffen and J. M. DeMatteis, with art by Kevin Maguire, created in 1987.\n\nFollowing the events of company-wide crossovers \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" and \"Legends\", Justice League of America writer J. M. DeMatteis was paired with writer Keith Giffen and artist Kevin Maguire on a new Justice League series. However, at the time, most of the core Justice League characters were unavailable. Superman was limited to John Byrne's reboot, George Pérez was relaunching Wonder Woman and Mike Baron was launching the Wally West version of the Flash.\n\nAs a result, the initial team consisted of:\n\nThe resulting comedic tone was Giffen's idea, introducing new characterizations to old characters: Guy Gardner was now a loutish hothead, Booster Gold was greedier and more inept than he had been in Dan Jurgens' series, and Captain Marvel displayed a childlike personality.\n\nThe series would go on to become nominated as \"Best New Series\" in 1988 by the Harvey Awards, but was beat out by Paul Chadwick's \"Concrete\". It would also feature Adam Hughes' first work for a major comic publisher.\n\nThey fight the Champions of Angor, other-dimensional super-heroes intent on destroying all nuclear weapons. Bialya's dictator Rumaan Harjavti takes advantage of the Champions to eliminate his rivals. In Russia the League fights the Rocket Red Brigade, until Gorbachev allows them to help. Wandjina sacrifices himself to stop a nuclear meltdown, and the League are sent home by international law. Millionaire entrepreneur Maxwell Lord takes an interest in the team, breaching their security and suggesting Booster Gold as a new member.\n\nBooster proves himself in combat against the Royal Flush Gang, and Lord declares himself their press liaison. Manhunter saves the world when they battle against a conscious psychic plague and he consumes it. Gardner challenges Batman to a fight over leadership, but Batman knocks him out in one punch. Doctor Fate is captured by the Gray Man, a rogue servant to the Lords of Order. Teaming up with the Creeper, they release Fate and stop Gray Man from taking over the world.\n\nEarth is attacked by a mysterious satellite, and the League travels into space. Miracle recognizes it as a modified New Genesis Device, and neutralizes it. They return home as heroes. Maxwell Lord introduces a proposal to get United Nations funding, and they are given sponsorship in exchange for government regulation. This plan allows them to act as an independent city-state with worldwide embassies. Captain Atom and Rocket Red #7 are added to the team by the United States and Russia respectively. Captain Marvel and Doctor Fate quit the team for personal reasons; Batman steps down as leader, appointing Martian Manhunter to replace him. They are reintroduced to the world as Justice League International. Despite a series of embarrassing accidents, they successfully move in to embassies around the world. This includes Moscow, New York City and Paris.\n\nWith issue seven, the series was renamed \"Justice League International\" to reflect the team's new international status. The name change spawned the term JLI, which is used when referring to this period in Justice League history. The series was again renamed following the launch of \"Justice League Europe\" in 1989. The series would be known as \"Justice League America\" until its cancellation in 1996.\n\n\"Breakdowns\" was a 16-issue crossover between the \"Justice League America\" (#53–60) and \"Justice League Europe\" (#29–36) titles, changing the tone of both series from a humorous one to a more serious one, and introducing new creative teams to both books. The major events that occurred were the following:\n\n\nThe \"Justice League\" titles continued to expand into the early to mid-1990s. Titles included: \"Justice League America\", \"Justice League Europe\", \"Justice League Task Force\", \"Extreme Justice\" and \"Justice League Quarterly\". \"Justice League Europe\" was later retitled to become the second volume of \"Justice League International\".\n\nIn the latter part of the series, more recognizable characters, including Superman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern and Aquaman, joined, followed by lesser known characters such as Bloodwynd, Maya, Maxima, Nuklon, Obsidian, Tasmanian Devil, and Triumph. Longtime JLI-era characters such as Captain Atom, Martian Manhunter, and Power Girl were revised and revamped.\n\nBy 1996, with the commercial success of the series fading, each of the titles was eventually cancelled.\n\nIn 2003, Giffen, DeMatteis, and Maguire reunited for the six-issue miniseries \"Formerly Known as the Justice League\". This depicted Maxwell Lord trying to get the gang back together as \"The Super Buddies\" – a Hero-For-Hire group that operated out of a strip mall. 2005 saw a second storyline, \"I Can't Believe It's Not the Justice League\", by the same creative team published in the pages of \"JLA Classified\". This tale told a story of the characters attempt to rescue Ice from Hell.\n\nFollowing \"Blackest Night\", DC launched two alternating 24-issue biweekly comic book limited series, one being \"Brightest Day\" and the other being \"\", written by Keith Giffen and Judd Winick. This second series features Captain Atom, Booster Gold, the new Blue Beetle Jaime Reyes, Fire, Ice and a new Rocket Red (by the name of Gavril Ivanovich) and will, essentially, see the return of Justice League International, as explained by Giffen:\n\nOver the course of the series, Power Girl and Batman joined the group as well, with Wonder Woman appearing in the book's final three issues. The title was heavily tied to Winick's run on \"Power Girl\", which had the title character dealing with villains connected to Max Lord's plans in \"Generation Lost\", and eventually had her rejoin the Justice League International after a crossover between the two titles. The title also indirectly tied into \"Odyssey\", a storyline published in \"Wonder Woman\" that saw the title character being removed from history with her existence forgotten by most of her fellow heroes. This formed the basis of the book's finale, with the members of the Justice League International racing to track down Wonder Woman before Lord could find her and kill her. Plot threads from \"Kingdom Come\" and \"The OMAC Project\" also appeared.\n\n\"Generation Lost\" ended with a teaser that a new \"Justice League International\" series would be coming in a few months (with Booster Gold as leader).\n\nAs part of \"The New 52\", \"Justice League International\" was relaunched in September 2011, after the conclusion of the \"Flashpoint\" storyline, written by Dan Jurgens and drawn by Aaron Lopresti.\n\nThis Justice League International is formed by United Nations director Andre Briggs as a UN-controlled counterpart to the original Justice League and is based out of the Hall of Justice. The founding lineup of the team consists of Booster Gold, Fire, Ice, Rocket Red (Gavril Ivanovich), Green Lantern (Guy Gardner), Vixen, August General in Iron, and Godiva, who are recruited to the team due to having their identities publicly known. Batman is denied membership due to having a secret identity, but is allowed to accompany the group as part of an effort to foster good relations between the JLI and the original Justice League. The team goes on to defeat the Signal Men and the alien conqueror Peraxxus.\n\nDuring a press conference outside the Hall of Justice, Rocket Red is killed when a bomb explodes, while Fire, Ice and Vixen are hospitalized and become comatose. This leads Booster Gold to recruit Batwing, OMAC and Firehawk to the team.\n\nIn May 2012, DC announced the cancellation of \"Justice League International\". The series concluded with issue 12 and the \"Justice League International Annual\" with issue #1 in August 2012.\n\n\nIn 1989, the first seven issues of the original \"Justice League International\" series were collected in a trade paperback called \"Justice League: A New Beginning\" () and issues #8–12 in the follow-up \"Justice League International: The Secret Gospel of Maxwell Lord\" in 1992 ().\n\nIn 2008, DC announced plans to collect the early years of the \"JLI\" as individual volumes, initially as hardcovers and later on as trade paperbacks; starting with volume 5 the books will be released solely as trade paperbacks:\n\n\n\nMartin A. Stever reviewed \"Justice League International\" \"Space Gamer/Fantasy Gamer\" No. 83. Stever commented that \"Thanks to clever characterization and wit, this creative team makes team moving day as exciting and as much fun as a brush with Armageddon.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843280", "title": "Brampton (electoral district)", "text": "Brampton (electoral district)\n\nBrampton was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. This riding was created in 1987, from Brampton—Georgetown riding, and was abolished in 1996, when it was redistributed between Brampton Centre and Brampton West—Mississauga ridings.\n\nIt consisted of that part of the City of Brampton lying west of Dixie Road.\n\nIt was briefly a riding represented in the Ontario Legislative Assembly from 1975 to 1985. It was represented by Premier Bill Davis.\n\nIncumbent John McDermid was made the Minister of Housing two weeks before the 1988 federal election was called, shortly after negotiating the Canada–United States Free Trade Agreement.\n\nThree weeks after the election was called, Liberals nominated Harbhajan Pandori, a 41-year-old computer analyst for Canadian Tire. He was a resident of Mississauga, and \"president of the large Sikh temple.\" He campaigned against the proposed federal sales tax (the GST) and \"supermailboxes\" in new subdivisions. NDP candidate John Morris focused on campaigning against free trade.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843286", "title": "Don Valley North", "text": "Don Valley North\n\nDon Valley North () is a federal electoral district in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It has been represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997 and since 2015. Don Valley North covers the area of the City of Toronto bounded by Steeles Avenue East to the north, Highway 401 to the south, Bayview Avenue to the west, and Victoria Park Avenue to the east. \n\nFormer North York city council member Barbara Greene, a Progressive Conservative, was elected as its first Member of Parliament in the 1988 election. She was defeated by Liberal Sarkis Assadourian in the 1993 election.\n\nThis riding was originally created in 1987, and was first used in the federal election of 1988. It was created from parts of Don Valley East and York—Scarborough ridings. In 1996, the riding was abolished through redistribution, and divided between Don Valley East and Willowdale ridings. This riding was re-created from parts of Willowdale and Don Valley East during the 2012 electoral redistribution.\n\nAs per the 2016 Census, Don Valley North is one of the only three City of Toronto ridings where Chinese is both the most frequent ethnic origin (32.4% of the population) and most frequent ethnicity group (31.3%, while White/Europeans come second with 29.3% of the population).\n\nThis riding is located in the northeastern part of the North York district in Toronto. It contains the neighbourhoods of Henry Farm, Bayview Village, Bayview Woods-Steeles, Hillcrest Village, Don Valley Village, and Pleasant View.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843289", "title": "Essex—Kent", "text": "Essex—Kent\n\nEssex—Kent was a federal electoral district in Ontario that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997.\n\nIt was created in 1976 from parts of Essex—Windsor, Kent—Essex and Lambton—Kent ridings, and initially consisted of the Townships of Colchester South, Gosfield North, Gosfield South, Mersea and Pelee, in the County of Essex, but excluding the Town of Essex, and Townships of Harwich, Raleigh, Romney and Tilbury East, including the Town of Tilbury, in the County of Kent.\n\nIn 1987, Essex—Kent was re-defined to consist of the towns of Harrow, Kingsville and Leamington and the townships of Colchester North, Colchester South, Gosfield North, Gosfield South, Mersea and Pelee in the County of Essex, and the towns of Blenheim and Tilbury and the villages of Erieau, Erie Beach and Wheatley in the County of Kent.\n\nThe electoral district was redistributed in 1996 in to Essex and Kent—Essex ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843290", "title": "Treze Futebol Clube", "text": "Treze Futebol Clube\n\nTreze Futebol Clube is a Brazilian football team from Campina Grande in Paraíba, founded on September 7, 1925. Historically, the club has competed in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A several times. Recently, the club has competed only in lower divisions of the national league, the Copa do Brasil, the regional Copa do Nordeste and the Paraíba State Championship\n\nThe main rival of Treze is Campinense, another traditional football club from Campina Grande. They have a long-standing rivalry, being collectively known as the Maiorais. This is considered as the most important derby in the countryside of Brazil. There is also a rivalry between Treze and Botafogo (PB), a football club from João Pessoa (Paraíba's capital), due to some historical issues between the two cities.\n\nThe club own the Presidente Vargas stadium, which has a theoretical capacity of 12,000, but an approved capacity of 3,800. Games are often played at the state-owned stadium Amigão.\n\nThe club was founded on September 7, 1925 by Antônio Fernandes Bioca and twelve other football fans. The group usually played football at a field which is now João Pessoa street. Antônio Fernandes Bioca introduced football to Paraíba, after bringing the first football to the state.\n\nIn 1925, Treze's first team was José Rodolfo, José Casado, Alberto Santos, Zacarias Ribeiro \"Cotó\" and Plácido Veras \"Guiné\", Eurico, Zacarias do Ó, José Eloy, Olívio Barreto, Osmundo Lima and José de Castro.\n\nTreze's first official match was played on 1 May 1926, at Campo dos Currais, which is now the site of a public market. Treze beat Palmeiras, an established team from the state capital João Pessoa, 1-0. Plácido Veras (known as Guiné), one of the thirteen founders of the club, scored the goal, to become the scorer of the first official Treze goal.\n\nIn 1939, Treze became the first team from outside the metropolitan region of João Pessoa to enter the Campeonato Paraibano. They won their first title in 1940 and have a total of 15 championship titles.\n\nIn 1966, Treze won the Campeonato Paraibabo undefeated, recording 12 victories and 2 draws, and conceding only 5 goals\n\nTreze have competed in the top tier of the Brazilian football league system a total of 9 times, including the combined tournaments held in 1986, 1987 and 2000. They have competed a further 7 times in the second tier, 12 times in the third tier and 5 times in the fourth tier. They have gained promotion twice from Série D, in 2011, when a 5th-placed finish meant they replaced Rio Branco-AC who were excluded from the competition and in 2018.\n\nIn 1999, Treze were the first Paraíba State team to progress beyond the first stage of the Copa do Brasil, beating Santa Cruz. Treze lost the first leg 2-3 in Campina Grande, but then won the second leg 4-2 in Recife.\n\nNational\n\nState\n\nTreze's colors are black and white. They usually play in black and white vertical stripes, black shorts and black socks. Its away kit is almost all-white, with the exception being its black socks.\n\nThe name \"Treze\" translates \"Thirteen\" in English, the number of the founders of the club. The mascot is a rooster as it represents the number 13 in Jogo do Bicho (an illicit gambling game in Brazil).\n\n"}
{"id": "1843296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843296", "title": "Gulyás", "text": "Gulyás\n\nGulyás may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1843298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843298", "title": "Chummy Fleming", "text": "Chummy Fleming\n\nJohn William 'Chummy' Fleming (1863 – 25 January 1950) was a pioneer unionist, agitator for the unemployed, and anarchist in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. \n\n\"Chummy\" Fleming was instrumental in starting May Day celebrations and marches in Melbourne. He was a member of the Melbourne Anarchist Club which formed on 1 May 1886, the first formal anarchist organisation in Australia. In 1899 he was elected to the Trades Hall Eight Hours Day committee and to the executive of Trades Hall Council. He was President of the Fitzroy Political Labor League, the forerunner to an Australian Labor Party branch. For more than sixty years he was a regular speaker at the Queens Wharf and Yarra Bank speakers corners on Sundays.\n\nHe was born in Derby, England in 1863 to an Irish father, employed as a \"weaver\", and an English mother, employed as a \"factory hand\". His maternal grandfather had been involved in the Corn Laws struggles, and his father was active in strikes in Derby. His mother died when 'Chummy' was five. At the age of 10 he was sent to work in a Leicester boot factory, which took its toll on the boy's health, and gave him a personal understanding of social injustice. In his teens he attended Freethought lectures of Charles Bradlaugh, George Jacob Holyoake and Annie Besant.\n\nAt the invitation of an uncle living in Melbourne, he migrated to Australia in 1884, gaining immediate work as a bootmaker and joining the Victorian Operative Bootmakers Union. Almost immediately he involved himself in radical politics by attending the second annual Secular Conference in Sydney in 1884, organised by the Australasian Secular Association. In Melbourne he started attending Queens Wharf and North Wharf Sunday afternoon meetings at the Yarra River where popular speakers included Joseph Symes, President of the Australasian Secular Association, Monty Miller, a veteran radical from the Eureka Stockade, and William Trenwith, an aspirant labour politician.\n\nIn late 1889, Fleming was an organiser of the \"Sunday Liberation Society\", and addressed meetings on the need to open the Public Libraries and Museums on Sundays. The Public Library had closed on Sundays due to church pressure. At a meeting near the Working Men's College (now known as Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology), a large crowd gathered. A deputation of five was appointed to visit Parliament House to petition for the Libraries and Museums to open on Sunday. When the deputation left, the crowd followed. The police failed to stop the estimated 6,000 people surging along the street, then up the steps of Parliament, where they finally stopped at the closed doors of Parliament.\n\nSeveral of the organisers received summonses for 'taking part in an unlawful procession' and were imprisoned for a month. The campaign was successful, but numbers attending the Library on Sunday were insufficient, and the Library soon closed its doors on Sunday. \n\nFleming's time in prison was not unproductive. While detained he studied the prison regulations and found that the sanitary arrangements were less than required. So, he stopped the Governor on his weekly rounds, 'lectured him for an hour' whereupon the Governor ordered immediate improvements.\n\nIn 1889, Fleming helped form a Melbourne lodge of the Knights of Labor in Melbourne, as well as being elected to the Eight Hours Committee. \n\nIn September, 1890 Fleming was first elected as a delegate of the Victorian Operative Bootmakers Union to the Trades Hall Council, and later served on the Executive. He supported inter-colonial strikers, female organisation, and agitation for piece work rates as opposed to a minimum wage which the employers were after. Due to declining union membership, Fleming was instrumental in the Trades Hall Council devising union re-organisation, which resulted in a number of unions being brought into existence and many old ones strengthened. Often his support of grass roots initiatives, self-help and the unemployed put him at odds with trade union bureaucrats and Labor politicians such as William Trenwith, who he accused of 'working with blood-sucking capitalists.' \n\nTwelve months later he was elected, unopposed, President of his union for a 6-month term, and for a similar period as President of the Fitzroy branch of the Progressive Political League, the fore-runner of the ALP. Fleming was a supporter of Max Hirsch, author of \"Democracy versus Socialism\".\nAt a Knights of Labor meeting in 1893, Fleming moved the motion for what was subsequently the first May Day procession in Melbourne. This was the start of a long association between Chummy Fleming and May Day in Melbourne. During the 1930s, when Fleming's anarchist politics was out of favour with the May Day Committee, then controlled by the Communist Party of Australia, Fleming started marching a block ahead with his red flag with \"Anarchy\" emblazoned in white, going so slowly the march caught up with him; or sometimes he started back In the ranks and gradually edged to the front.\n\nIn 1895, at a large meeting at the Melbourne Town Hall, Fleming and John White moved a motion successfully opposing the Melbourne Lord Mayor, Sir Arthur Snowden, from chairing the meeting because of remarks he had made supporting very low wages. A commentator in \"The Tocsin\" articulated that it forced words to become deeds and resulted in the introduction of the Factories Legislation. \n\nIn 1904 Fleming was expelled from Trades Hall Council for attacks on Labor parliamentarians (disloyalty to Labor). Fleming's continual criticism of Trades Hall bureaucrats and Labor opportunists was echoed by noted Trade Unionist and socialist, Tom Mann.\n\nFleming spent many periods unemployed and was active in unemployed agitation. Many Trade Unions and Trades Hall officials were not sympathetic to unemployed agitation at this time. Fleming described one occasion:\n\nIn 1908, as part of an unemployed agitation, Fleming and Percy Laidler, a Marxist, led the unemployed into Federal Parliament in Melbourne, stopping it for one and a half hours.\n\nOn 1 May 1886 the first meeting of the Melbourne Anarchist Club took place attended by Fleming, Monty Miller, Jack Andrews, David Andrade and several others. In club meetings he gave lectures on 'The Subjection of Women', and the need for sexual freedom in a talk on 'Marriage, Prostitution and the Whitechapel Murders'. He was not noted as a writer or philosopher, but remained on good terms with mutualists, individualists and communist anarchists active in the club. His union and unemployed agitation showed him to be more practical and pragmatic in his adherence to anarchism. \n\nHe is recorded as having regular correspondence with noted anarchists, Peter Kropotkin, Emma Goldman, and Max Nettlau and many others. For every year from 1887 he commemorated in Melbourne the execution of the Haymarket Riot Martyrs.\n\nOn being expelled from Trades Hall Council in 1904, Fleming became heroic and made the following statement:\n\nFor the next forty five years Fleming helped organise or was involved with anarchist meetings in Melbourne.\n\nFrom 1901 an interesting friendship developed between Chummy Fleming and Lord Hopetoun, Australia's first Governor-General. In May 1901 Fleming protested unemployment in Melbourne by rushing onto the Prince's Bridge to halt the Governor General's carriage. Hopetoun told the police not to interfere and listened to Fleming put the case for the unemployed. Out of this encounter came a friendship which endured after Hopetoun returned to England in July 1902. While in Australia, he is said to have visited Chummy's house at 6 Argyle Place, Carlton, which was built with money he lent Chummy, the house bearing the name 'Hopetoun' when completed (since demolished). According to some reports, Hopetoun is credited with pressuring the government to speed up government work projects.\n\nUpon Hopetoun's impending departure, he donated money and 25 dozen bottles of champagne, entrusted to Fleming, for distribution to the unemployed. Several commentators of the period saw this as a round-about slap at the establishment for refusing to pay Hopetoun what he thought he needed. Fleming duly distributed the gifts to the unemployed according to a register: One shilling to each married man and 6d to each single man who attended on 24 June 1902. The following day the bottles of Champagne, along with beer from 6 hogsheads donated by Shamrock Brewery, were distributed by Fleming, (who neither smoked or drank). According to newspaper reports drunkenness and riots ensued.\n\nFleming was active in the conscription debates during the first World War, being with the Industrial Workers of the World prepared to take a definite anti-war stance. In Port Melbourne Town Hall for example, he spoke on \"the Rich Man's War and the Poor Man's Fight.\" During this period he was frequently arrested, jailed and threatened with being deported by the authorities, or thrown into the river by roughs and on at least one occasion was thrown in.\n\nIn 1933, he was invited to make a speech at the \"Congress Against War and Fascism\", organised largely by the Communist Party of Australia. It was reported that he took the organisers to task for their doctrinaire approach, and was heavily criticised for it.\n\nFleming became an institution as a speaker on the Yarra Bank on Sundays. From 1901 until he died in 1950, each Sunday he would set up his Freedom stand, conducting meetings and lecturing on social questions, working conditions and other issues. He announced his meetings with a cow bell, behind him would be draped two red flags: one with 'Anarchy' and the other with 'Freedom' worked on white.\n\nOn May Day in 1950, after his death, the ashes of Chummy Fleming were scattered among the crowd on the Yarra Bank. He was remembered for his sincerity, courageousness, and dedication to the Australian labour movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843300", "title": "Halton—Peel", "text": "Halton—Peel\n\nHalton—Peel was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Brampton—Georgetown, Halton and York—Peel ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the northern part of the City of Burlington, the Town of Halton Hills, the part of the Town of Milton lying between Tremaine Road and the Macdonald-Cartier Freeway, and the Town of Caledon.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Burlington, Dufferin—Peel—Wellington—Grey, and Halton ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843303", "title": "Hastings—Frontenac—Lennox and Addington", "text": "Hastings—Frontenac—Lennox and Addington\n\nHastings—Frontenac—Lennox and Addington was a federal and provincial electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1984 to 2003, and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007.\n\nThe federal riding was created in 1976 when Hastings—Frontenac was renamed. The riding initially consisted of:\n\n\nIn 1987, the riding was re-defined to consist of:\n\n\nIn 1996, the riding was re-defined to consist of:\n\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into the Kingston and the Islands, Lanark—Frontenac—Lennox and Addington, and Prince Edward—Hastings ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843304", "title": "List of companies of Israel", "text": "List of companies of Israel\n\nThis is a list of notable companies in Israel.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843308", "title": "Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association", "text": "Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association\n\nThe Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA) was a men's amateur – later professional – ice hockey league in Canada that played four seasons. It was founded on December 11, 1905 with the top clubs from two other leagues: four from the Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL) and two from the Federal Amateur Hockey League (FAHL). It was formed to maximize the revenues of a now popular spectator sport and help these amateur teams cope with professionalism in the sport. The league would shed its amateur status for the 1908 season, leading to the split between Canadian amateur ice hockey teams playing for the Allan Cup, and the professionals playing for the Stanley Cup. The league would itself dissolve in 1909 over a dispute between team owners over business issues.\n\nThe CAHL held its regular meeting on December 9, 1905. At that meeting it was decided that amalgamation with the FAHL should be attempted. On December 11, it was announced that the amalgamation would form a new league, the ECAHA. The CAHL was discontinued, but the FAHL would continue. The first executive was elected:\n\n\nHowever, on December 20, the vice-president titles were abolished and the Secretary-treasurer position was given to William Northey of the Montreal Arena Company.\n\nFrom the start, the league allowed teams to openly use professional players. The players who were professionals had to be printed publicly. In 1908, the amateur-only Montreal Victorias and Montreal Hockey Club teams left the league. The league became a professional-only league, leading to several amateurs retiring from their teams. In significance of the change the league was renamed the Eastern Canada Hockey Association.\n\nIn November 1909, the league dissolved over the plans of the Wanderers to move to an arena with fewer (revenue paying) spectator seats. The three other teams announced that they were leaving the ECHA, creating the Canadian Hockey Association (CHA). The Wanderers helped form a competing league, the National Hockey Association (NHA). The CHA played for less than two weeks, merging with the NHA in January 1910.\n\nA silver championship trophy, designated the 'Arena Cup', was donated by the Montreal Arena Company. It was crafted from of sterling silver and designed by Birk's of Montreal. After the Wanderers won it in 1906 through 1908, they were given the trophy permanently, a condition engraved in the silver of the trophy. The trophy is now on permanent display in the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto.\n\n† Stanley Cup Champions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843310", "title": "Mississauga East", "text": "Mississauga East\n\nMississauga East was a federal and provincial electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2003, and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1975 to 2007. It was located in the city of Mississauga.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Mississauga North riding. It consisted of the eastern part of the City of Mississauga. The electoral district was abolished by both the federal and provincial governments in 2003 when it was re-distributed into the ridings of Mississauga East—Cooksville (and provincial counterpart), Mississauga South (and provincial counterpart), and Mississauga—Brampton South (and provincial counterpart).\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843312", "title": "Hostile Takeover Trilogy", "text": "Hostile Takeover Trilogy\n\nHostile Takeover is a science fiction trilogy (actually one long novel in three parts) written by S. Andrew Swann and published by DAW Books. The series is set in the 24th Century, when humans have settled a variety of colonized worlds connected by wormholes, and established a loose confederacy of powers.\nThe main setting is the Anarcho-capitalist planet of Bakunin. It consists of three books titled \"Profiteer\", \"Partisan\" and \"Revolutionary\", which were published between 1995 and 1996 and re-released by DAW in a single volume in 2004.\n\nAlthough the trilogy reads as a stand-alone, it has connections to other works by Swann.\nAlthough set much farther in the future, the series takes place in the same universe as Swann's Moreau series. In this setting, biologically uplifted \"moreau\", and genetically engineered humans (known as \"Frankensteins\" or \"franks\") form an underclass in human society. (However, in the Hostile Takeover series, moreaus and franks play only a minor role in the plot.) By the time of the Hostile Takeover series, the extraterrestrials that manipulated Earth's politics and economy in the Moreau series have been quarantined, but their AI machines (which may still be manipulating human society) are now used by humans.\n\nA second trilogy, \"Apotheosis\" (comprising the books \"Messiah,\" \"Heretics,\" and \"Prophets\") follows on in the same setting.\n\nTogether, the books in these series are known as the \"Terran Confederacy\". \n"}
{"id": "1843314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843314", "title": "Mississauga West", "text": "Mississauga West\n\nMississauga West was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2003. It was located in the city of Mississauga in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1987 from Mississauga North riding.\n\nMississauga West consisted of the part of the City of Mississauga lying of north of Dundas Street West west of the Credit River, north of the Queen Elizabeth Way, and west of Hurontario Street. It was re-defined in 1996.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was re-distributed between Mississauga South, Mississauga—Erindale and Mississauga—Streetsville ridings. \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843321", "title": "Oakville—Milton", "text": "Oakville—Milton\n\nOakville—Milton was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1987 from Halton riding.\n\nOakville—Milton consisted of the Town of Oakville, and the part of the Town of Milton lying northeast of Tremaine Road and southeast of the Macdonald-Cartier Freeway.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Halton and Oakville ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843323", "title": "Perth—Wellington—Waterloo", "text": "Perth—Wellington—Waterloo\n\nPerth—Wellington—Waterloo was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Perth, Waterloo and Wellington—Dufferin—Simcoe ridings.\n\nThe riding consisted of the County of Perth, the townships of Wellesley and Wilmot in the Regional Municipality of Waterloo, and the Village of Drayton and the townships of Maryborough and Peel in the County of Wellington.\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Perth—Middlesex and Waterloo—Wellington ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843324", "title": "Simcoe Centre", "text": "Simcoe Centre\n\nSimcoe Centre was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Grey—Simcoe, Simcoe South and Wellington—Dufferin—Simcoe ridings.\n\nSimcoe Centre consisted of the City of Barrie, the towns of Alliston and Wasaga Beach, the Village of Cookstown and the townships of Essa, Innisfille, Sunnidale, Tosorontio and Vespra.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Barrie—Simcoe—Bradford and Simcoe—Grey ridings.\n\nSimcoe Centre is the only riding east of Manitoba to have ever elected a Reform Party Member of Parliament, in the 1993 federal election, Ed Harper, who won a narrow victory over the Liberal candidate. Simcoe Centre was also the only one of Ontario's 98 seats to not go to the Liberals in the 1993 federal election.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843328", "title": "Welland—St. Catharines—Thorold", "text": "Welland—St. Catharines—Thorold\n\nWelland—St. Catharines—Thorold was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1987 from Welland riding.\n\nWelland—St. Catharines—Thorold consisted of the southern part of the City of St. Catharines, the City of Thorold and the northern part of the City of Welland.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Niagara Centre, Niagara Falls and St. Catharines ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843330", "title": "Cheong Fatt Tze", "text": "Cheong Fatt Tze\n\nCheong Fatt Tze or Tjong Tjen Hsoen or Zhang Bishi (; 1840–1916) was a Chinese businessman and politician. He was a powerful Nanyang industrialist and a first-class Mandarin in the Manchu government; he was made Consul-General in Singapore and economic advisor to the Empress Dowager. \n\nHe was born in 1840 in Dabu, Guangdong Province in South China. \nAs he came from a poor Hakka family, he started working at an early age as a cowherd back in his village. In 1856, civil war ravaged much of China, and in that same year another war had broken out between the Emperor of China and the English, known as the Second Opium War (1856–1862). The people had experienced hardship and suffering during the war. As a result, Cheong Fatt Tze migrated to South-East Asia together with other coastal Chinese families to seek their fortune.\n\nHe started as a water-carrier and then became a shopkeeper in Jakarta, Indonesia. \nAfter his marriage, he established a trading company with the help of his father-in-law. Gradually, he began to accumulate his wealth through hard work and perseverance. In 1877, he expanded his business from Jakarta to Medan. His business was based on agricultural products such as rubber, coffee and tea but he branched out to the financial sector by acquiring a bank. This move made him a wealthy man.\n\nIn 1886, he expanded again to Penang, Malaysia. As his business grew, he owned three ships which plied between Penang and Medan. In the course of his work, he occasionally resided in Penang and owned a mansion in Leith Street, which stands to this day as protected heritage building.\n\nIn 1890, in recognition of his hard work and contribution, he was appointed the Chinese Consul, based in Penang. This office was shifted to Singapore when that city became established as a well-known trading port in South-East Asia. As the Chinese Consul, he worked tirelessly for the interests of overseas Chinese residents through diplomatic channels with the British authorities.\n\nIn 1899, he was summoned to China twice by the Emperor of China and instructed to present a national development plan, which was well received by the government of the Qing dynasty. As a result, he was promoted to be the Minister for agriculture, industries, roads and mines for the provinces of Fujian and Guangdong. Later he was instructed to conduct a study of trade and education in Penang and Singapore. Subsequently, the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce was established. In 1904, he established the first Chinese school in Southeast Asia, the Chung Hwa Confucian School in Penang.\n\nIn 1912, the Kuomintang overthrew the Qing and established a republican government. Cheong was appointed as a member of the Legislative Assembly so that he could be actively involved with politics. He was also appointed as the Chairman of the Chinese national Chamber of Commerce, which was well received by all parties.\n\nIn 1915, he was sent to the United States to study all aspects of industrialization of that nation. During his journey, when he stopped over in Hong Kong, he was awarded a Ph.D. in Law.\n\nCheong Fatt Tze died in Indonesia in 1916. His body was sent back to China to be buried. On its final journey through Penang, Singapore and Hong Kong, the overseas Chinese were greatly saddened by the loss of this great personality. The Chinese government sent a high-ranking official to his funeral and ordered the National Archives to record his life in historical documents so that his contributions would always be remembered. Both the British and the Dutch authorities ordered flags to be flown at half mast to honour the man who was known as \"\"the Rockefeller of the East\"\". He had eight wives and owned many residences throughout his trading empire (mostly Southeast Asia) but made Penang his base, where he raised his six sons.\n\nIn 1894, Chung Keng Quee hosted in his own gardens, in the name of Vice Consul Chang, Pi Shih (Cheong Fatt Tze), a dinner to welcome Admiral Ting (see Battle of Yalu River (1894) and Battle of Weihaiwei) and the Chinese Imperial Fleet of warships that he commanded.\n\nCheong Fatt Tze first introduced grape vineyards in China's Shandong province, and later brought in Austrian wine-producing experts to improve the ChangYu vineyard in Yantai, Shandong.\nCheong Fatt Tze also gave shelter to Sun Yat Sen and Sun Yat Sen 's fourth wife in Penang, Cheong Fatt Tze also helped Sun Yat Sen with Money to promote a Chinese Nationalist movement in China after 1911.\n\nA street in George Town, Penang, which was formerly named Hong Kong Street, was renamed after him, Jalan Cheong Fatt Tze. His blue mansion, Cheong Fatt Tze Mansion, is a heritage building, located at Leith Street in George Town. It is open for guided tours, and also offers accommodation and has an on-site restaurant. He left another mansion in his birthplace, Dabu, Guangdong Province, China.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843331", "title": "Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe", "text": "Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe\n\nWellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. It was located in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Bruce—Grey, Grey—Simcoe and Wellington—Dufferin—Simcoe ridings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Dufferin—Peel—Wellington—Grey, Simcoe—Grey and Waterloo—Wellington ridings. \nWellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe consisted of the County of Dufferin; the Town of Thornbury, the Village of Dundalk and the townships of Collingwood, Egremont, Osprey and Proton in the County of Grey; the towns of Collingwood and Stayner, the Village of Creemore and the Township of Nottawasaga in the County of Simcoe; and the towns of Fergus, Harriston, Mount Forest and Palmerston, the villages of Arthur, Clifford and Elora, and the townships of Arthur, Minto, Nichol, West Garafraxa and West Luther in the County of Wellington.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843334", "title": "Lisgar—Marquette", "text": "Lisgar—Marquette\n\nLisgar—Marquette was a federal electoral district in the province of Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Lisgar and Portage—Marquette ridings.\n\nLisgar—Marquette consisted of an area bordering on the City of Brandon, Manitoba.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Brandon—Souris, Dauphin—Swan River and Portage—Lisgar ridings.\n\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total valid votes\n!align=\"right\"|34,421\n!align=\"right\"|100.00%\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total rejected ballots\n!align=\"right\"|101\n!align=\"right\"|0.29%\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Turnout\n!align=\"right\"|34,522\n!align=\"right\"|61.56%\n!align=\"right\"|\n\n"}
{"id": "1843337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843337", "title": "Portage—Interlake", "text": "Portage—Interlake\n\nPortage—Interlake was a federal electoral district in the province of Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Lisgar, Portage—Marquette and Selkirk—Interlake ridings.\n\nPortage—Interlake consisted of an area south of Lake Winnipeg.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Portage—Lisgar and Selkirk—Interlake ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843341", "title": "Selkirk—Red River", "text": "Selkirk—Red River\n\nSelkirk—Red River (formerly known as Selkirk) was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThe riding was created as \"Selkirk\" riding in 1987 from Selkirk—Interlake, Winnipeg North and Winnipeg—Birds Hill ridings. It was renamed \"Selkirk—Red River\" in 1990.\n\nSelkirk—Red River consisted of part of the City of Winnipeg and an area to the east of that city.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Churchill, Provencher, Selkirk—Interlake and Winnipeg North—St. Paul ridings.\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1843343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843343", "title": "LandAmerica Financial Group", "text": "LandAmerica Financial Group\n\nLandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. was the third largest title insurance group in the US. It was incorporated in 1991 as Lawyers Title Corporation, and renamed LandAmerica after Lawyers Title acquired Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company and Transnation Title Insurance Company in 1998. It was headquartered in Glen Allen, Virginia. The company's subsidiaries were primarily title insurers; however, they offered a number of other real estate transaction services.\n\nThrough its subsidiaries, principally Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company and Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation (its third largest subsidiary, Transnation Title Insurance Company, was merged into Lawyers Title in 2008) LandAmerica principally engaged in the title insurance business in the United States. Its products and services facilitated the purchase, sale, transfer, and financing of residential and commercial real estate.\n\nThe company operated primarily in three segments: Title Insurance, Lender Services, and Financial Services.\n\nThe Title Insurance segment provided title insurance, escrow and closing services, commercial real estate services, property appraisal and valuation, building and site assessments, survey coordination, construction disbursement, coordination of national multistate transactions, tax-deferred real property exchanges, and real estate transaction management services.\n\nThe Lender Services segment provided services to regional and national lending institutions, which complemented those offered in the company’s title insurance business. These services consisted primarily of real estate tax processing, flood certification services, mortgage credit reporting, default management services, and mortgage loan subservicing.\n\nThe Financial Services segment engaged in originating and purchasing of commercial real estate loans in the southern California market, as well as soliciting deposits through certificates of deposit and passbook savings accounts.\n\nThe company provided its services to lenders, developers, real estate agents, attorneys, and property buyers and sellers. It served residential and commercial customers with approximately 1,000 offices and a network of over 10,000 agents throughout the United States, Mexico, Canada, the Caribbean, Latin America, and Europe.\n\nOn November 26, 2008, LandAmerica filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. LandAmerica's largest competitor, Fidelity National Financial, previously proposed a merger on November 8, 2008, following LandAmerica's posting multibillion-dollar losses in the third quarter. That deal fell apart following due diligence. Instead, Fidelity has acquired several LandAmerica units: Lawyers Title Insurance Corp., Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Co., and United Capital Title Insurance Co.\n\nLandAmerica sold the subsidiary, LandAmerica Assessment Corporation (LAC), to Partner Engineering and Science, Inc. (Partner) in March 2009. Partner is continuing to service the old LAC reports and is continuing to do business under the name \"LandAmerica Assessment\" until July 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843344", "title": "Winnipeg—St. James", "text": "Winnipeg—St. James\n\nWinnipeg—St. James was a federal electoral district in the province of Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1979 to 1997. It was located in the north end of city of Winnipeg. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Winnipeg North Centre and Winnipeg South Centre ridings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Charleswood–Assiniboine and Winnipeg North Centre ridings.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1843348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843348", "title": "Prince Albert—Churchill River", "text": "Prince Albert—Churchill River\n\nPrince Albert—Churchill River was a federal electoral district in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Mackenzie, Prince Albert, and The Battlefords—Meadow Lake ridings.\n\nPrince Albert—Churchill River consisted of the northern portion of the Province of Saskatchewan.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Churchill River, Prince Albert and Wanuskewin ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843349", "title": "Regina—Lumsden", "text": "Regina—Lumsden\n\nRegina—Lumsden was a federal electoral district in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Moose Jaw and Regina West ridings. Regina—Lumsden consisted of the western portion of the Province of Saskatchewan.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was re-distributed between Palliser, Qu'Appelle and Regina—Arm River ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843352", "title": "Saskatoon—Clark's Crossing", "text": "Saskatoon—Clark's Crossing\n\nSaskatoon—Clark's Crossing was a federal electoral district in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997. This riding was created in 1987 from parts of Saskatoon West riding.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed between Saskatoon—Rosetown and Wanuskewin ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843354", "title": "Saskatoon—Dundurn", "text": "Saskatoon—Dundurn\n\nSaskatoon—Dundurn was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Humboldt—Lake Centre, Saskatoon East and Saskatoon West ridings\n\nIt was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Blackstrap and Saskatoon—Rosetown ridings.\n\nThe following were the Members of Parliament for the riding:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843356", "title": "Swift Current—Maple Creek—Assiniboia", "text": "Swift Current—Maple Creek—Assiniboia\n\nSwift Current—Maple Creek—Assiniboia was a federal electoral district in Saskatchewan, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Swift Current—Maple Creek and Assiniboia ridings.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1996 when it was redistributed into Cypress Hills—Grasslands, Palliser and Souris—Moose Mountain ridings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843360", "title": "Beaver River (electoral district)", "text": "Beaver River (electoral district)\n\nBeaver River was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 1997.\n\nIt was located in the province of Alberta. This riding was created in 1987, and was first used in the federal election of 1988. It was abolished in 1996, with its area becoming part of Lakeland.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "1843361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843361", "title": "Edmonton Southeast", "text": "Edmonton Southeast\n\nEdmonton Southeast was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2004.\n\nIt was located in the city of Edmonton in the province of Alberta.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from parts of Pembina riding.\n\nIt was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Edmonton—Beaumont (later renamed Edmonton—Mill Woods—Beaumont), Edmonton—Strathcona and Wetaskiwin ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n \n\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total valid votes\n!align=\"right\"|32,068\n!align=\"right\"|100.00%\n!\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total rejected ballots\n!align=\"right\"|58\n!align=\"right\"|0.18%\n!\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Turnout\n!align=\"right\"|32,126\n!align=\"right\"|56.05%\n!\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843362", "title": "Edmonton Southwest", "text": "Edmonton Southwest\n\nEdmonton Southwest was a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2003.\n\nIt was located in the city of Edmonton in the province of Alberta.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 from Edmonton South and Edmonton West ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Edmonton—Leduc, Edmonton—Spruce Grove and Edmonton Centre ridings.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total valid votes\n!align=\"right\"|44,208\n!align=\"right\"|100.00%\n!\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total rejected ballots\n!align=\"right\"|67\n!align=\"right\"|0.15%\n!\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Turnout\n!align=\"right\"|44,275\n!align=\"right\"|62.63%\n!\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843364", "title": "Anyox", "text": "Anyox\n\nAnyox was a small company-owned mining town in British Columbia, Canada. Today it is a ghost town, abandoned and largely destroyed. It is located on the shores of Granby Bay in coastal Observatory Inlet, about southeast of (but no land link to) Stewart, British Columbia, and about , across wilderness, east of the tip of the Alaska Panhandle.\n\nThe remote valley was long a hunting and trapping area for the Nisga'a, and the name Anyox means “hidden waters” in the Nisga'a language. The first Europeans in the area were the members of the Vancouver Expedition, who surveyed the inlet in 1793.\n\nNisga'a legends told of a mountain of gold, attracting speculators for years. In 1910, the Granby Consolidated Mining, Smelting and Power Company (Granby Consolidated) started buying land in the area. They soon found gold.\n\nGranby Consolidated started construction of the town in 1912. By 1914, Anyox had grown to a population of almost 3,000 residents, as the mine and smelter were put into full operation; rich lodes of copper and other precious metals were mined from the nearby mountains. Granby Consolidated moved its copper mining interests here from Greenwood, British Columbia. Copper was mined from the Hidden Creek and Bonanza deposits and smelted on site. Coal to fuel the smelter was shipped from Union Bay on Vancouver Island and Fernie in southeastern British Columbia.\n\nAnyox had no rail nor road links to the rest of British Columbia, with all connection served by ocean steamers that traveled to Prince Rupert ( southwest) and Vancouver.\n\nThe company town was a very large operation with onsite railways, machine shops, curling rink, golf course and a hospital. In the spring of 1918, Granby Consolidated built the first wooden tennis court in Canada, for additional recreation. That same year, incoming ships brought the Spanish flu epidemic to Anyox. Charles Clarkson Rhodes, the Chief Accountant for the Granby Consolidated operations in Anyox, died on October 29, 1918, while helping to treat patients in the Anyox Hospital. Dozens of workers and residents of Anyox died from that flu epidemic.\n\nIn the early 1920s, concrete pioneer and dam engineer John S. Eastwood designed a hydroelectric dam which, standing high, was the tallest dam in Canada for many years. Anyox was almost wiped out by forest fires in 1923, but the townsite was rebuilt and mining operations continued. Acid rain from the smelter denuded the trees from the hillsides which soon became bare.\n\nThe Great Depression drove down the demand for copper, effectively the beginning of the end for Anyox. Operations continued, but were steadily scaled down while the company stockpiled of copper, three years of production, that it was unable to sell. The mine shut down in 1935, and the town was abandoned. Salvage operations in the 1940s removed most machinery and steel from the town, and two forest fires, in 1942 and 1943, burned all remaining wood structures.\n\nDuring its 25 year existence, Anyox’ mines and smelters produced of gold, of silver and of copper.\n\nActive mineral exploration continues in the area. In the 1980s, local entrepreneurs teamed with Vancouver investors to purchase the long dormant operations from the owner of record. Whenever there is a rise in the price of copper, there is speculation about the possibility of re-development – though none has ever occurred.\n\nSince 2000, the current owners have been trying to attract interest in rehabilitating the hydroelectric dam, to either supply the British Columbia grid or to attract and serve an on-site natural gas liquefaction facility.\n\nFormer Vancouver mayor Jack Volrich was one of the 351 people born in Anyox. As was Thomas Waterland, MLA for Yale-Lillooet from 1975 to 1986.\n\nReid Mitchell, who represented Canada in basketball at the 1948 Olympics, also was born in Anyox.\n\nGarnet Webber was born June 22, 1935, possibly the last baby born prior to the town shutting down.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843365", "title": "Elk Island (electoral district)", "text": "Elk Island (electoral district)\n\nElk Island was a federal electoral district in the province of Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2004.\n\nThe electoral district was created in 1987 from Pembina and Vegreville ridings.\n\nIt was abolished in 2003 with parts being transferred mostly to Edmonton—Sherwood Park, Vegreville—Wainwright and Westlock—St. Paul ridings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843369", "title": "Fire (comics)", "text": "Fire (comics)\n\nFire (Beatriz da Costa) is a fictional comic book superheroine from the DC Comics universe.\n\nA version of her first appeared in \"Super Friends\" #25, (October 1979), and was created by E. Nelson Bridwell and Ramona Fradon.\n\nBeatriz da Costa, alias Green Fury, had originally been bequeathed her powers due to Brazilian mysticism and was the president of the Brazilian branch of Wayne Enterprises. She possessed an array of abilities which included the power to exhale vast quantities of mystical green fire. She could also fly, alter her clothing at will, and displayed a limited capacity to project hallucinations. In her first appearance, she confronted and battled Superman, who was controlled by the \"puppet master\" Overlord, Sandor Fine. In her next appearance, Green Fury called The Super Friends to help defeat the villain Green Thumb (Fargo Keyes), and months later revealed her secret origin to them to thwart the demons from a green hell.\n\nGreen Fury became a member of the Global Guardians when Superman, recruited by Doctor Mist, asks for assistance in locating one of many ancient artifacts being pursued by a powerful group of evil mystics. They battle a wizard called 'El Dorado' in an ancient, overgrown city deep in the jungle. The two face off against 'spirit jaguars' and seemingly lose the artifact, a crown, to the wizard. Costa then assists Superman and other Guardians in battling the wizards, El Dorado included, on Easter Island. The heroes catch a break when it's learned Superman had faked the artifacts with super-speed. This prevents the rise to power of the entity the wizards followed, Thaumar Dhai. Though not as powerful as planned, Dhai was still a threat. Green Fury's mystical based powers were essential in destroying him.\n\nAfter the \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", her history was altered so that she had followed an unusual career path. Renamed Beatriz Bonilla da Costa, she started as an amateur model on the beaches of Rio, then becoming a showgirl and stage performer before finding herself serving as a top secret agent for Brazilian government's SNI (Serviço Nacional de Informações - National Information Service), actually Abin (Agência Brasileira de Inteligência - Brazilian Intelligence Agency). In the course of one of her missions, Beatriz was trapped in a pyroplasmic explosion that endowed her with the unusual power of being able to exhale an eight-inch burst of fire. She assumed the identity of the Green Fury, and then soon changed it again to Green Flame. She joined the international superhero team the Global Guardians, of which she was a long-standing, loyal member.\n\nShe first met the American heroes Infinity, Inc. while on a mission to Canada.\n\nShortly after changing her name to Green Flame, the Guardians' United Nations funding was withdrawn in the wake of the formation the Justice League International. Beatriz convinced her teammate and best friend Icemaiden into joining her to apply for Justice League International membership. Remarkably, in the wake of Black Canary's resignation and the abduction of several members, the short-handed JLI took them on. Eventually, she once again changed her heroic name, this time to Fire in affinity with Icemaiden's shortening of her name to simply Ice. As a result of the \"gene bomb\" detonated by the alien Dominators, Fire's powers were dramatically increased, but were less reliable for a time.\n\nFire always assumed a big sister role with Ice, watching out for her and her interactions with the \"real\" world. For example, Fire stepped in when Ice did not realize she was being stalked by a delusional fan. However, Fire herself makes mistakes, such as torching the cash she'd just saved while foiling a bank robbery.\n\nBeatriz remained with the Justice League International for the remainder of its existence — in fact she served the longest tenure of any JLI member. During this time, she was also trained in the arts of battle by Big Barda.\n\nIn the battle against Doomsday, Bea lost her powers by taxing them to their limits while trying to blast Doomsday, in effect \"her fire went out\". She remained with the team but by the time she returned in \"Justice League America\" #88, it was too late to help prevent her best friend's death, as Ice was killed by the Overmaster. As Beatriz tried to cope with this loss, she briefly had a romantic relationship with Ice's former lover, Guy Gardner, and a longer one with Nuklon. When the first Icemaiden, Sigrid Nansen, joined the League Ice's place, Fire befriended her. However, their friendship was tainted by Bea's irrational grief-driven behavior, and Sigrid's romantic attraction to Bea.\n\nWhen this League collapsed, Beatriz returned to Brazil, and tried to re-establish herself as the country's main protector. This met with varied success, which she blamed partly on the Martian Manhunter's prominence in the Southern hemisphere.\n\nFire eventually tried to retire from being a superhero and establish a career as an internet glamor girl when Maxwell Lord talks her and several other former JLI members into reforming as a group of \"heroes for the common man\" called the \"Super Buddies\". She found herself sharing an apartment with Mary Marvel and, in a characterization reminiscent of her relationship with Ice, became a reluctant \"babysitter\" for the naive teenager.\n\nIn one adventure with the Super Buddies, Fire and the others were given the opportunity to rescue Ice's spirit from Hell (or a similar dimension). Yet like in the Greek myth of Orpheus and Eurydice, Fire could not resist looking behind her, which caused Ice's spirit to vanish. During the Super Buddies' time in Hell, Etrigan the Demon suggested that it was Fire who was fated to die instead of Ice.\n\nLater, during her time in the group, she encounters an alternate universe version of Ice.\n\nThe Super Buddies did not realize that Maxwell Lord was also secretly the Black King of Checkmate. After the Buddies' dissolution, Bea became an agent of Checkmate as well. It has not been revealed whether Lord recruited her. Regardless, she helps Booster Gold and Guy Gardner find the connection between Lord and the death of the Blue Beetle. She joins her former JLI teammates against a group of OMACs. She is badly wounded, but is saved by the sacrifice of Dimitri Pushkin, the Rocket Red.\n\nDuring the \"Infinite Crisis,\" created by Alexander Luthor, Beatriz returns to her espionage roots by joining Amanda Waller, who took over Checkmate after Lord's death. One of Fire's first missions was to retrieve the A.I., Brother Eye, which had crashed down in Southern Saudi Arabia. This plan was thwarted by Sasha Bordeaux, also formerly of Checkmate.\n\nShe appears later, criticizing Booster for his shameless self-promotion while the search continues for the missing superheroes. She is also on hand at a memorial for Ralph Dibny's wife, Sue.\n\nNearly one year later, after the Crisis, Checkmate was reformed under the supervision of the United Nations and Beatriz became the Black King's Knight. Though she no longer reported to Waller (who was made White Queen), Waller blackmailed Bea with evidence against her father and forced Bea to perform covert assassinations. Waller had previously implied that Beatriz actually enjoyed the violence and depravity that was a part of her job. It was revealed that as a girl Bea had been trained to kill by her father.\n\nDespite her past as a dutiful soldier and daughter, Bea expressed remorse over taking part in a Checkmate mission that resulted in the deaths of as many as 50 Kobra agents, many of whom were immolated by Fire herself. Waller once again blackmailed Fire into covering up a coup in Santa Prisca. There, Fire killed Colonel Computron for Waller in order to protect her father, who, in the mid-1970s, under a right wing military dictatorship, had ordered thousands of innocent deaths in Operation Condor, a US-supported South American anti-communist program that involved assassinations, torture and forced disappearances. He was never caught and Beatriz had always kept his secret.\n\nWhen the murder of Computron was exposed by fellow Knight Tommy Jagger, Fire was jailed. After a visit from her superior, the Black King, Col. Taleb Beni Khalid-Isr, Beatriz agreed to turn over her father to international authorities for war crimes. Khalid had convinced her to act as the superhero that he'd chosen for his Knight.\n\nIn \"Checkmate\" #16, after years of anguish and grief over the loss of her friend and ally Ice, Fire is at last reunited with her after the long-deceased hero is miraculously resurrected in the pages of \"Birds of Prey\".\n\nTheir renewed relationship, never shown on panel, is referenced again when Ice, accepting a date on Oa with her lover Guy Gardner, refuses his proposal to cohabit on Oa claiming how she decided to get her life together, on Earth, with some help from Beatriz herself. Gardner claims that Fire is manipulating Ice.\n\nFire appears as one of the central characters in \"\", a maxi-series that takes place during the wider \"Brightest Day\" event. At the start of the series, Fire is recruited as part of a massive group of superheroes tasked with hunting down the JLI's founder and Ted Kord's murderer, Maxwell Lord. During an encounter with Max at the Justice League's former New York headquarters, Fire is rendered unconscious alongside Ice, Booster Gold, and Captain Atom. The former Justice League members awake to discover that Lord has used his mental abilities to erase his existence from the minds of every single human on the planet, save for those present at the embassy. After she tries to tell Wonder Woman of her killing of Lord, Wonder Woman refuses to believe it. Fire discovers that Max has mentally influenced the world into believing that Checkmate has dismissed her for failing her psychological evaluation.\n\nAfterward, Fire encounters Lord in JLI headquarters. After mind-controlling Fire and then Booster Gold to prevent them from stopping him, he ports from the old JLI embassy back to Checkmate. Before they can figure out their next move, the base comes under attack by the Creature Commandos. Caught while powered down, Fire is shown having been shot several times. Fire is able to heal by using the bandages of the medic mummy of the Creature Commandos, but is unable to keep Blue Beetle from being kidnapped by Maxwell Lord. While the team deals with the apparent loss of Blue Beetle, Fire bonds with Gavril Ivanovich the current Rocket Red and the two grow close, eventually sharing a passionate kiss.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Fire appears as part of the Justice League International team. Fire is injured toward the end of the first story arc and is sidelined for the remainder of the run.\n\nThe original Green Fury had magical flame breath powers due to Brazilian mysticism. She could control her flame breath to allow her to fly and land like a rocket. She was able to mystically alter her clothing when needed and change the color of her eyes from green to black, and vice versa. She was also able to create and cast illusions with her \"dazzle power\" and fire blasts with her white-hot flame or super-cold freezing flame. Her green flame had the magical ability to heal and repair her costume after a battle. Beatriz was also trained by Batman in hand-to-hand combat. Due to the events of the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Green Fury never had any of these magical powers and had a new revised origin.\n\nIn her Post-Crisis incarnation, Beatriz's only power, gained from saturation by an organic energy source called Pyroplasm, was the ability to breathe a jet of green flame from her mouth. During the \"Invasion\" crossover event, the alien Dominators set off a \"metagene bomb\" in the upper atmosphere which affected almost all DC characters with superpowers and, after a period of illness, Fire found her powers greatly magnified as an after-effect. The \"new\" Fire was now able to completely turn into a being of green plasma, in which form she could fly and throw devastating blasts. Solid objects could pass completely through her form without causing injury. Unfortunately, it took her some time to come to terms with her increased powers, and she often \"flamed on\" involuntarily when stressed or angry (and sometimes still does), a distressingly common event for a character depicted as having a tendency towards passionate outbursts. The Super Buddies continuity established (and made light of) the fact that flaming on destroyed Bea's clothing, rendering her naked when she stopped using her powers. \"Checkmate\" and other appearances have ignored this. Beatriz is also a skilled investigator and espionage agent, and in the latter context was considered a valuable asset by Checkmate chief Amanda Waller for her ability and willingness to kill in order to complete missions (unlike many of her contemporaries who maintain a no-kill policy).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843372", "title": "Clifton Hill, Niagara Falls", "text": "Clifton Hill, Niagara Falls\n\nClifton Hill is one of the major tourist promenades in Niagara Falls, Ontario. The street, close to Niagara Falls and the Niagara River, leads from River Road on the Niagara Parkway to intersect with Victoria Avenue. The street contains a number of gift shops, wax museums, haunted houses, video arcades, restaurants, hotels and themed attractions. For visitors, particularly families and teenagers, it is a major amusement area and centre for night life.\n\nOver the years, the various properties on the hill have been bought, sold and renamed frequently. The street is divided between two primary property owners: the Harry Oakes Company (HOCO) and the Niagara Clifton Group.\n\nComfort Inn, also part of Clifton Hill, closed in 2015 and was later demolished as part of a major development that included the Niagara Speedway go-kart track, an extension of the Great Canadian Midway video arcade, a zombie-themed 4D ride, multiple snack stands, and a Ripley's Believe It Or Not Museum expansion. The expansion began in early 2016 and was completed in the summer of 2018.\n\nProminent attractions on the street include the Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museum and 4D Moving Theater, the Guinness World Records Museum, the Niagara SkyWheel Ferris wheel, and the nearby Louis Tussaud's Waxworks (which also operates under Ripley's). Tussaud's has long been a staple of the area, and a model of tight-rope walker Charles Blondin that formerly hung above Clifton Hill and has since been moved to Victoria Ave is a common long-time landmark.\n\nThe first wax museum in Niagara Falls was the Louis Tussaud's Waxworks, which opened in 1949. It was the first of many wax museums to come. Its location on the Hill closed in September 2000 when its lease ran out, and it has since reopened just above the hill on Victoria Avenue. It is noticeably similar to Madame Tussaud's (Madame Tussaud was the great-grandmother of Louis Tussaud) due to how the figures are placed in the reach of visitors.\n\nAnother wax museum, Movieland Wax Museum of the Stars, showcases many famous celebrities from movies, music, and television, although this museum has all but a few of their figures behind glass or out of reach. At the end of the museum, there is a hall of horrors and a wax hand studio. Within the past few years, the museum has relocated from what is now Wizard's Golf to a larger location close to the bottom of the hill that used to be the location of the now-closed Circus World. The spinning ride on top of Movieland has since been removed. Finally, there is also the Rock Legends Wax Museum featuring many musical (mostly rock and roll) icons from the 20th and 21st centuries, which is located near the corner of Centre St and Victoria Ave, at the top of Clifton Hill.\n\nEach of these museums has its own interactive areas where visitors can pose with figures, sit in an electric chair (this option is available at Movieland and Louis Tussaud's), or have your hands sculpted with wax (Movieland). There is also a wax hand studio located in the gift shop behind the Ripley's Believe It or Not! Odditorium lobby.\n\nThe Criminals Hall of Fame wax museum was established in 1977 and stood beside what used to be the Alien Encounter haunted house. The museum featured forty wax statues of notorious criminals, from mobsters to serial killers. The attraction closed in 2014 and is now a discount souvenirs store.\n\nClifton Hill is home to Dinosaur Adventure Golf, Canada's largest mini-golf (70,000 sq. ft), located beside The SkyWheel, that features to-scale dinosaurs, sand pits, a river, and a 50 ft \"active\" volcano/waterfall. In close proximity to Dinosaur Adventure Golf is Wizards' Golf (formerly Cosmic Golf and Galaxy Golf), an indoor, 18-hole, glow in the dark mini golf course located directly next to Ripley's Believe It or Not!. There is also Wild Safari Mini Putt (formerly The Incredible Hulk Encounter) located inside Adventure City (formerly the Marvel Superhero Adventure City).\n\nThere are five year-round haunted houses on and around Clifton Hill: The House of Frankenstein (which is located next to the Ripley's 4D Moving Theater), Dracula's Haunted Castle (located next to Big Top Entertainment Centre), and The Haunted House (near the bottom of Clifton Hill) are on Clifton Hill, while Nightmares Fear Factory is located on Victoria Avenue. Two additional haunted houses used to be located on Victoria Avenue, Screamers House of Horrors (which was renamed Haunted Asylum shortly before its closure in 2014) and Creatures of the Night (which had the same owners and acted as a second part of \"Screamers\"). Following the closure of \"Haunted Asylum\", the building became a hybrid haunted house/zombie paintball shooting range known as Screaming Tunnels (named after the famously haunted tunnel of the same name located in the northwest corner of Niagara Falls) but that attraction closed in 2018 and is now a complex containing a Popeyes and an Osmow's Shawarma restaurant. The \"Creatures of the Night\" attraction was followed by a 4D theatre known as Dino Rampage 4D but is now an Outback Steakhouse. There was previously an alien themed haunted house known as Alien Encounter at Clifton Hill and Victoria Avenue which offered an \"encounter\" with an escaped alien in a lab. This attraction was reported closed in 2006 and the site is now occupied by a currency exchange.\n\nThere are many restaurants on or nearby the hill. These restaurants include: Kelsey's, Ruby Tuesday, Dairy Queen, IHOP, Wendy's, Burger King, Tim Hortons, Hooters, Montana's Cookhouse, Boston Pizza (one of the biggest of all the Boston Pizza locations in Canada and formerly the biggest), Rainforest Cafe (the only Canadian location remaining), Mama Mia's, Hard Rock Cafe, Pizza Pizza, Subway, and the privately owned \"Clifton Hill Family Restaurant\".\n\nThere are three prominent video arcades on Clifton Hill. The largest video arcade on Clifton Hill is called The Great Canadian Midway.\n\nIt has hundreds of video games where players can redeem earned tickets for prizes at the ticket counter. In this arcade complex, there is a Wild West coaster and a Ghost Blasters ride where the object is to shoot lasers at ghosts. The Boston Pizza and Great Canadian Midway both are connected to the Strike! Rock and Bowl (established in 2009), a video arcade with a rock n' roll themed 10-pin bowling alley. This used to be the Sports Zone; which was an adult bar/video arcade. Across from the Great Canadian Midway is a video arcade called Adventure City. This is attached to the Rainforest Cafe. Inside the attraction is a motion ride which is similar to Ghostblasters, a black light go-kart shooting game, a play area for kids, a putt-putt golf and video games. Adventure City used to be called Marvel Superhero Adventure City, but it lost the rights to Marvel and was forced to change its name, remove the animatronic Spider-Man and Green Goblin figures from the front entrance, and change all the Marvel themed ride names.\n\nIn 2009, a three-floor Dave & Buster's video arcade and restaurant was added to the street where a motel formerly stood. Dave & Busters no longer occupies the space and the arcade is now operating under the name Captain Jack's Fun Centre (originally \"Captain Jack's Pirate Cove\") and the restaurant space is now an IHOP. A convenience store is located towards the rear of the building.\n\nA fun house is located lower on the hill, next to a Ruby Tuesday restaurant. Fantasy Fudge Shop moved up the hill on the other side to their own building, right next to the Midway. A variety of gourmet fudges are offered here. On Falls Avenue, the street bordering the Falls walkways, includes a Hershey's store and a Coca-Cola store.\n\nThrough the years, the attractions on Clifton Hill have changed frequently. Brick City, a Lego associated attraction, used to be located in the building of the former Adventure Dome, an IMAX presentation (fire damage sustained in 2014 led to it moving further up the road. A new development transformed the space into a go kart attraction. The Great Canadian Midway used to be called Dazzleland, and was much smaller and outdoors. The Niagara SkyWheel took the place of the lobby and Golden Griddle restaurant of Quality Inn Clifton Hill. The Quality Inn was torn down within a few years of the Golden Griddle, for reasons currently unknown. The restaurant moved on to Victoria Avenue, but has new owners. The current location of the Wizard's Golf (formerly Cosmic Mini Golf and later Galaxy Golf) and the neighbouring gift shop used to be the home of the Movieland Wax Museum, until the museum relocated to the bottom of the hill for more space. Another location is farther out on Lundy's Lane. Adventure City used to be known as the Marvel Superhero Adventure City. The owners lost the ability to use Marvel logos and characters, as noted above, thus the more generic name. Most recently, WWE Niagara Falls closed at the end of March 2011. The Pile Driver ride (above the store) remained but was left unused until mid-2015 until the building was sold and became home to the Niagara Brewing Company brewery, bar, and patio. A trip to Clifton Hill does not require too much planning, because the attractions are all side to side. This area has become a major tourist attraction, mainly in the summer months, because of all the new additions added almost every year.\n\nThroughout the years, there had always been a delicate balance between preservation of the waterway in its natural state and commercial development or access. While this area is in a constant state of change, some had viewed the recent development of tourist attractions on the Clifton Hill area as an uncharacteristic distraction from the natural serenity of the Niagara Falls region and viewed them as \"cheesy.\"\n\nThe land Clifton Hill now occupies was acquired by the Phillip Bender family in 1782 as part of a United Empire Loyalist land grant. In 1832 the property was purchased by British Army officer Captain Ogden Creighton, a half-pay officer who had served in the 70th and 81st Regiments and had served in the Far East. Creighton laid out streets and building lots on the land, naming the future settlement Clifton, presumably after Clifton on the gorge of the River Avon in Bristol, England. The officer built his residence, Clifton Cottage, on the edge of a high bank facing the American Falls (where the present-day Quality Inn is located).\n\nCreighton was involved in suppressing the uprising of the Rebellion of 1837. Following a clash between William Lyon Mackenzie and an Upper Canada government militia north of Toronto, the rebel leader took his forces to Navy Island on the Niagara River to form a provisional government. In mid-January 1838 Mackenzie and his followers evacuated the island. At the time Clifton Cottage became the headquarters for a military detachment assigned to guard the border ferry. The Creighton family left the Niagara area in the early 1840s, moving to Toronto and later Brantford, Ontario. Captain Creighton died around 1850.\n\nThe street now called Clifton Hill was then Ferry Road, named due to its proximity to the rowboat transportation system that ferried people across the Niagara River between Canada and the United States prior to the completion of the Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge. Ferry Road provided access to the Niagara Gorge where the boats docked.\n\nIn 1833 the first Clifton Hotel was built at the base of the street by Harmanus Crysler. Following in 1842, financier Samuel Zimmerman created a estate property along the south side of the road. Dubbed Clifton Place, Zimmerman planned to create many gardens, large fountains and a mansion that was to be his residence. The estate occupied the entire south side of what is now Clifton Hill, bounded by the Niagara River, Murray Hill and Ferry Road. Among the buildings constructed were four large gatehouses (the last was completed in 1856) and a $18,000 stable constructed of imported English yellow brick. In addition a fountain was created in the centre of the property.\n\nZimmerman was killed on March 12, 1857 in the Desjardins Canal railway accident. He only lived to see the foundation for his $175,000 \"Clifton Place\" mansion built. Only the fountain remains to this day, located at the northern end of Queen Victoria Park.\n\nThe Zimmerman estate was taken over by the Bank of Upper Canada, which went bankrupt in 1866. The estate was put up for sale and purchased by State Senator John T. Bush of Buffalo, New York for 25 cents on the dollar. Bush acquired Clifton House, the adjoining properties, and went on to complete the lavish Clifton Place mansion. Bush and his family lived in the building for the next 50 years, with his daughter Josephine residing there until 1927. In 1928 the Bush estate was sold to Harry Oakes of Welland Securities.\n\nThe first Clifton Hotel was destroyed by fire in 1898, and the ruins laid untouched until 1905, when the second Clifton House and Lafayette Hotel was built. Another fire broke out at the Clifton on December 31, 1932, and was again a total loss.\n\nHarry Oakes bought this property and deeded it to the Niagara Parks Commission, which built Oakes Garden Theatre, opening in September 1937.\n\nThe 1920s saw considerable growth in the area as a tourist destination. In 1925 Howard Fox opened the Foxhead Inn on Clifton Hill at Falls Avenue. On the north side of the hill the Niagara Falls Tourist Camp was opened by Charles Burland. Earl McIntosh opened two campgrounds, the Clifton Touring Camp on the south side of the street and Clifton Camp to the north. Reinhart's Riverhurst Inn was built between the Niagara Falls Tourist Camp and the Foxhead Inn.\n\nIn the 1950s the land on the south side of the street was offered to the Government of the United States as a site for a new American Consulate however the offer was never acted upon and the land was later sold (Niagara was home to US Consul from 1899 to 1959). Two hotels still in operation today opened in the 1950s: The \"Park Motor Hotel\" and the Quality Inn \"Fallsway Hotel\".\n\nBeginning in the 1960s, Clifton Hill began to see various museums built, including the \"Houdini Hall Of Fame\", \"Ripley's Believe It Or Not\", \"Hollywood Wax Museum\", \"House Of Frankenstein\" and \"Guinness World Records\" museum.\n\nThe district is the setting of Albert Shin's 2019 thriller film \"Disappearance at Clifton Hill\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843383", "title": "Delta—South Richmond", "text": "Delta—South Richmond\n\nDelta—South Richmond was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004.\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 from parts of Delta riding.\nIt was only used in the 1997 and 2000 federal elections. In 2003, it was abolished when it was redistributed between Delta—Richmond East, Newton—North Delta and Richmond ridings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843387", "title": "Langley—Abbotsford", "text": "Langley—Abbotsford\n\nLangley—Abbotsford (formerly known as Langley—Matsqui) was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004.\n\nIt consisted of the western part of Central Fraser Valley Regional District and the northwestern part of Langley District Municipality.\n\n\"Langley—Matsqui\" riding was created in 1996 from parts of Fraser Valley East, Fraser Valley West and Surrey—White Rock—South Langley. The riding was renamed \"Langley—Abbotsford\" in 1997. It was only used in the 1997 and 2000 federal elections. The riding was abolished in 2003, divided between the ridings of Abbotsford and Langley.\n\nThis riding elected only one Member of Parliament:\n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1843388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843388", "title": "New Westminster—Coquitlam—Burnaby", "text": "New Westminster—Coquitlam—Burnaby\n\nNew Westminster—Coquitlam—Burnaby was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004.\n\nThis was an urban riding that contained the city of New Westminster, and those parts of Burnaby lying southeast of the Trans-Canada Highway, and the southwestern portion of Coquitlam.\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 from parts of the electoral districts of New Westminster—Burnaby and Port Moody—Coquitlam.\n\nThis riding was used in the 1997 and 2000 federal elections.\n\nIn 2003, the district was abolished. Parts of it went into the electoral districts of New Westminster—Coquitlam, Burnaby—New Westminster and Burnaby—Douglas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843390", "title": "Port Moody—Coquitlam", "text": "Port Moody—Coquitlam\n\nPort Moody—Coquitlam (formerly known as Port Moody—Coquitlam—Port Coquitlam) is a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004 and since 2015.\n\nIt initially consisted of:\n\nIn 1996, it was redefined to consist of the part of Greater Vancouver Regional District lying north and east of a line drawn from the intersection of the northern limit of Greater Vancouver Regional District with the Indian River; south along the Indian River and Indian Arm to the limit of the City of Burnaby, east and south along the northern and eastern limits of Burnaby, east along the southern limit of the City of Port Moody, south along Gatensbury Road, east along Foster Avenue, south along Hillcrest Street, east along Austin Avenue, south along Mundy Street, east along the Trans-Canada Highway (Highway No. 1); thence easterly along the Trans-Canada Highway, south along Leeder Avenue, east along the southern limit of the cities of Coquitlam and Port Coquitlam to the eastern limit of the GRVD.\n\nThis riding was created in 1987 as \"Port Moody—Coquitlam\" from parts of Mission—Port Moody and New Westminster—Coquitlam ridings.\n\nThe name of the district was changed in 1998 to \"Port Moody—Coquitlam—Port Coquitlam\".\n\nIn 2003, the district was abolished. A small portion was given to New Westminster—Coquitlam while the remainder was moved into the new Port Moody—Westwood—Port Coquitlam riding.\n\nThe 2012 electoral redistribution saw this riding resurrected for the 2015 election, taking in territories currently in New Westminster—Coquitlam and Port Moody—Westwood—Port Coquitlam.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843392", "title": "South Surrey—White Rock—Langley", "text": "South Surrey—White Rock—Langley\n\nSouth Surrey—White Rock—Langley was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004.\n\nThis electoral district included the City of White Rock and City of Langley, as well as the southern portions of the Township of Langley and the City of Surrey.\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 from Fraser Valley West and Surrey—White Rock—South Langley ridings.\n\nIn 2003, it was abolished and parts of it went to help form Langley and South Surrey—White Rock—Cloverdale ridings.\n\nThis riding elected only one Member of Parliament:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843394", "title": "Surrey Central", "text": "Surrey Central\n\nSurrey Central was a federal electoral district in British Columbia, Canada, used in the 1997 and 2000 elections to elect a Member of Parliament for the 36th and 37th Parliaments, respectively. The electoral district was created, in 1996, as part of the expansion of the House of Commons of Canada from 295 to 301 seats, which gave British Columbia two additional seats. Gurmant Grewal won the 1997 election for the Reform Party of Canada which became the official opposition. After the Reform Party disbanded, Grewal joined the Canadian Alliance and won re-election in 2000, with his party again forming the official opposition. The electoral district was abolished when the House of Commons again expanded for the 2004 election.\n\nLocated entirely within the municipality of Surrey, Surrey Central had its southern boundary along the Serpentine River and its northern boundary fronting the Surrey North electoral district. Using the last available census (1991), it was estimated to have 112,682 people during the 1997 election, which was higher than the average electoral district. When the data from the 1996 census became available Surrey Central was estimated to be the most populous electoral district in Canada, at 149,468 people. People with a South Asian ethnicity made up about a quarter of the electoral district's population and it included the largest concentration of Indo-Canadians in any electoral district in Canada.\n\nThe electoral district of Surrey Central was located within the province of British Columbia. It encompassed of the City of Surrey and the Barnston Island portion of Greater Vancouver's Electoral Area A. It used Surrey's municipal boundaries with Delta and Langley as its western and eastern borders and the Serpentine River as its southern border. The northern border was 88th Avenue (to 152nd Street), BC Highway 1 (to 176th Street) and the Fraser River.\n\nThe \"Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, 1995\" adopted during the 35th Canadian Parliament's 1st Session and the subsequent \"Representation Order, 1996\", increased the number of electoral districts in British Columbia from 32 to 34, and increased the total number of seats in the House of Commons of Canada from 295 to 301. British Columbia's two new electoral districts, as created by the Electoral Boundaries Commission, were Surrey Central and Vancouver Kingsway. Surrey Central was created using the Surrey portion of the abolished Surrey—White Rock—South Langley and the southern and eastern portion of the geographically reduced Surrey North.\n\nData from the 1991 census placed the population of the new Surrey Central electoral district at 112,682 people. That figure was used to estimate that there were 82,322 electors during the 1997 election, about 14% higher than the average federal electoral district in British Columbia. For the 2000 election, the population estimate was adjusted using data from the 1996 census to 149,468 people (97,421 electors), making it the most populous electoral district in Canada. The 2001 census provided a more complete profile of the electoral district, showing it to have 179,165 people. The largest ethnic minority was South Asian at 28% of the population and 39% reported a mother tongue that was neither English or French. The two largest religious groups were Protestant at 25% and Sikh at 22%.\n\nThe Surrey Central electoral district existed until the June 2004 election which had new electoral districts in accordance with \"Representation Order, 2003\". The total number of seats in the House of Commons had been increased from 301 to 308, giving British Columbia two more electoral districts. The reapportioning sent the western side, between the municipal boundary and King George Highway, to Newton—North Delta, and the southeastern portion, between Fraser Highway, 72nd Avenue and 160th Street, to South Surrey—White Rock—Cloverdale. A small portion was sent back to Surrey North but the majority of Surrey Central, including Barnston Island, formed the new Fleetwood—Port Kells electoral district.\n\nSource: Member of Parliament.\n\nThe 1997 election campaign began with four Indo-Canadians winning nomination contests. As Surrey Central had the largest concentration of Indo-Canadians in any electoral district in Canada, speaking a second language or otherwise being able to connect with the Indo-Canadian community was an advantage. Palbinder Shergill, a 31-year-old lawyer, would represent the Liberal Party, Charan Gill, a 60-year-old social worker who had unsuccessfully run in the Surrey—White Rock—South Langley during the 1988 election, would represent the New Democratic Party, and communications consultant Imtiaz Popat would represent the Green Party. Gurmant Grewal, a 39-year-old realtor, unexpectedly won the Reform Party nomination over Mike Runte and Lorna Dysart, after Grewal registered 700 new party members just before the filing deadline. There was an accusation by a Reform Party member that the Sikh community had colluded to nominate Sikh candidates in all the major parties and Dysart accused the Reform Party officials of being biased in favour of seeing somebody from an ethnic minority group winning the nomination. At the time, the Reform Party was fighting a perception that they were oblivious to the multi-racial composition of Canadian society and struggling with an image of extremism. Dysart left the Reform Party to join the Progressive Conservative Party. In reaction to several Indo-Canadians already nominated, the Progressive Conservative riding association announced it was purposefully seeking a \"white candidate\" to avoid further splitting the Indo-Canadian vote. However, Vince Antonio, whose parents had emigrated to Canada from the Philippines, also defeated Dysart. After losing the Reform Party nomination to Grewal, Mike Runte, a 48-year-old Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officer registered to run as an independent candidate. The \"Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act\" prevented active officers from being candidates for political office and Runte was ordered by his superiors to withdraw. Runte refused the order, believing it unconstitutional, and consequently was suspended from the RCMP and faced a disciplinary tribunal. Other candidates participating in the election included Philip McCormack for the Canadian Action Party, student Val Litwin for the Natural Law Party, lineman Gaetan Myre running as an independent, and engineering assistant Bill Stilwell, who had previously run in Surrey North during the 1988 and 1993 elections, for the Christian Heritage Party. While Gurmant Grewal won the riding, the Reform Party only won 60 seats nationally and formed the official opposition to the Liberal Party who formed a majority government in the 36th Parliament.\nFollowing the conversion of the Reform Party to the Canadian Alliance in March 2000, Prime Minister Jean Chrétien called a snap election to take place on November 27. While Grewal was expected to win re-election, Liberal Party officials believed Grewal was vulnerable. The Liberals nominated the 48-year-old Peter Warkentin who had been the nominee in the Langley—Abbotsford electoral district during the 1997 election and in Fraser Valley West during the 1993 election, losing both times. Other candidates who sought election included 20-year-old student Dan Baxter for the Progressive Conservatives, executive assistant Dan Goy for the New Democratic Party, school administrator David Walters for the Green Party, and retiree Harjit Daudharia for the Communist Party. Grewal unexpectedly received a celebrity endorsement from Olympic wrestler Daniel Igali. Grewal won re-election but his party again formed the official opposition to the Liberal Party who formed another majority government.\n\nSource: votes, totals, and expenditures.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843395", "title": "Always Be My Baby", "text": "Always Be My Baby\n\n\"Always Be My Baby\" is a song by American singer Mariah Carey from her fifth studio album \"Daydream\" (1995). It was released by Columbia Records on March 9, 1996, as the third US single and fourth overall. The song was written and produced by Carey, Jermaine Dupri and Manuel Seal. A midtempo song, its lyrics describe the feeling of attachment and unity the singer feels towards her estranged lover, even though they are no longer together, she says he will always be a part of her and will \"always be her baby\" even after they move on.\n\nMusic critics praised \"Always Be My Baby\" and it was a commercial success, becoming Carey's eleventh chart topper on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, tying her with Madonna and Whitney Houston for most number-one singles for a female artist at the time. It spent two weeks atop the chart and became Carey's eighth chart-topper on the Canadian \"RPM\" Top Singles chart. The song is certified Triple Platinum in the US with 1,254,000 units coming from physical sales, 890,000 coming from digital sales, and 856,000 coming from streaming equivalent units. In other regions, the single performed well, peaking at number three in the United Kingdom, number five in New Zealand, number 17 in Australia and in the top 20 in most music markets where it charted.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Always Be My Baby\" features scenes of Carey frolicking by a campsite in upstate New York, as well as swinging on a large swing over a lake. Additional inter-cuts include scenes of two children, one male and female, sneaking out at night and spending time together by a campfire similar to Carey's location. Most scenes from the video were filmed at The Fresh Air Fund's Camp Mariah, named after Carey for her generous support and dedication to Fresh Air Fund children. The song was performed live during her Daydream World Tour (1996) and many of her future tours and concerts. \"Always Be My Baby\" was also featured in Carey's compilation albums: \"#1's\" (1998), \"Greatest Hits\" (2001), \"The Ballads\" (2008) and \"#1 to Infinity\" (2015).\n\nWhile Carey was writing and commencing the recording of \"Daydream\" from late 1994, she began searching for different producers, in order to give her work a new sound. Jermaine Dupri, who had risen to fame during that period and previously remixed Carey's song \"Never Forget You\" for its single release in 1994, began working with Carey on material for her album. After recording the song in December 1994, Carey recalled that she chose to work with Dupri because he had a \"very distinct vibe.\" Additionally, Carey commissioned the assistance of hip-hop and contemporary R&B producer, Manuel Seal. As Seal played different keys on the piano, Carey led him with the melody she was \"hearing inside her head\" and began humming the phrase \"always be my baby.\" In an interview with Fred Bronson, Carey discussed the process it took to write and produce the song:\n\nJermaine, Manuel and I sat down and Jermaine programmed the drums. I told him the feel I wanted and Manuel put his hands on the keyboards and I started singing the melody. We went back and forth with the bridge and the B-section. I had the outline of the lyrics and started singing 'Always be my baby' off the top of my head.\n\n\"Always Be My Baby\" marked the first of several collaborations between Carey and Dupri. Like producers before him, Dupri commended Carey's vocal abilities, \"she can pretty much do anything with her voice. She's really strong vocally.\" Another musical craft the song featured was the inclusion of heavy background vocals of her lower registers, with Carey then belting and singing the higher notes over her background vocals and melody, creating a \"double voice effect.\" When discussing the technique used in the background vocals, Carey said:\n\nThe background vocals are an important part of the picture for me. That's why I like to do them myself a lot of the time, or initially I'll lay down the tracks. I'll double my voice or do a couple of tracks of my own voice. It's easy for me to match my voice. And then if I'm going to use other background singers, I'll let them go on top of mine.\n\"Always Be My Baby\" is a \"carefree\" midtempo ballad, which incorporates pop and R&B genres. \"Rolling Stone\" contributor Brittany Spanos identified the track as \"one of her more straightforward pop hits from the early portion of her career, featuring a catchy chorus and one of her most tender vocal performances.\" It has a moderate tempo of 79 beats per minute. The song features a \"double voice\" which is an effect Carey created in the studio, where her lower vocal notes are used as backup, and her higher chest notes are used as the song's main focal point. The song's instrumentation is written in the key of E major and increases by one semitone to F major. It is set in signature common time. Carey's vocals span from the note of B to F.\nDescribing the track as \"buoyant\", \"Pitchfork\"'s Jamieson Cox wrote that \"there are moments ... where all you hear is Mariah singing over rock-solid piano chords,\" finding the arrangement and simplicity \"almost surprising given her taste for the ostentatious.\" Jordan Runtagh, writing for \"People\", described the song as \"somewhere between a breezy love song and wistful breakup ode\". \"The Daily Telegraph\" described the track as a love song whose \"lyrics describe the sense of attachment Carey still feels towards her former lover\". Its lyrics feature several ad libs, opening with \"doo-doo-doo dow\", which is also used throughout the song's chorus.\n\n\"Always Be My Baby\" was released to critical acclaim. Ken Tucker from \"Entertainment Weekly\" complimented the song's \"relaxed swing\" and felt its instrumentation helped make it a standout from the album. Stephen Holden, editor of \"The New York Times\", complimented \"Always Be My Baby,\" calling it one of \"the best on the album.\" At the 38th Grammy Awards the song received a nomination for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" readers voted \"Always Be My Baby\" the fifth greatest song of Carey's career, while \"Entertainment Weekly\" ranked the song second in a similar poll, writing, \"there’s no way we would ever try to shake her — even if we didn’t know yet that “always” really would last this long.\" Ranking \"Always Be My Baby\" Carey's second best number-one song, Glenn Gamboa of \"Newsday\" noted that the song \"still shows off her legendary range, but also shows that she can be chill and laid-back enough to make 'doobedoo oh' work as a chorus.\"\n\n\"Always Be My Baby\" was released by Columbia Records on March 9, 1996, in Europe, and debuted at number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on the issue dated April 6, 1996, behind Celine Dion's \"Because You Loved Me,\" which had replaced Carey's previous single, \"One Sweet Day\", at number one. \"Always Be My Baby\" stayed at number two for four weeks, and topped the Hot 100 on May 4, 1996, where it spent two weeks before returning to the number two position for an additional five weeks. At the end of its US chart run, the song spent a total of nine weeks at number two, the fourth longest stay in the chart's history. The song became Carey's 11th chart topper in the United States, tying her with pop singers Whitney Houston and Madonna as the female solo artist with the most number one singles, a record she soon passed. After spending two weeks atop the Hot 100, the three singles from \"Daydream\" had given Carey a combined 26 weeks (six months) atop the chart, something never duplicated by another artist until Usher and The Black Eyed Peas in the mid to late 2000s. In Canada, the song became Carey's eighth chart topper, after it ascended to the number one position on the Canadian \"RPM\" Singles Chart during the week of May 20, 1996.\n\nWhile it charted well outside the US, the song didn't manage to chart as high as her previous two singles \"Fantasy\" and \"One Sweet Day.\" In Australia, the song entered the Australian Singles Chart at number 28 during the week of March 13, 1996. The song spent 16 weeks fluctuating in the chart before spending its last week at number 47 on June 30. \"Always Be My Baby\" was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA), denoting shipments of over 35,000 units. The song debuted and peaked at number five in New Zealand, spending three consecutive weeks at the position. After 16 weeks, the song fell off the singles chart and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ). In the United Kingdom, the song entered the UK Singles Chart at number three, where it peaked. In its second week, the song fell to number four, staying on the chart for a total of ten weeks. As of 2008, sales in the UK are estimated at 220,000. In Ireland, the song peaked at number ten on the Irish Singles Chart, spending nine weeks in the chart. In the Netherlands, \"Always Be My Baby\" entered the singles chart at number 43 during the week on April 20, 1996. The song peaked at number 27, spending one week at the position and five weeks in the chart overall. \"Always Be My Baby\" entered the singles chart in Sweden at number 58 during the week of May 3, 1996. After peaking at number 38 and spending a total of five weeks in the chart, the song fell off the Swedish Singles Chart.\n\nThe music video for \"Always Be My Baby\" was the second video Carey's directed. In it, she is the seemingly happy narrator of a tale of young love, as a young boy and a girl elope in the middle of the night. The video was filmed on location at Carey's sponsored charity, the Fresh Air Fund upstate New York camp. The video begins with scenes of Carey, in a denim jacket, jeans, and bare feet, on a lakeside tire-swing, smiling and beginning to retell a story of young love. As she sits upon the swing, scenes of two children sneaking out of their bungalow in the middle of the night are shown. They frolic together beside a fireplace, soon coming up to the lakeside swing Carey had been on before. They soon go swimming wearing their clothes, much like Carey did in her video for \"Dreamlover\" though she does not jump into the water herself this time. As they jump into the water, Carey is then seen by the campfire they passed on their journey to the lake, smiling with friends and enjoying herself by the fire. Eventually the boy and girl are seen kissing underwater. The video concludes with scenes of the young boy and girl walking together back to their bungalow, walking hand-in-hand. Having possibly witnessed the entire event, Carey is seen once again by the large swing, chuckling and staring into the night's sky.\n\nAn alternate video was shot for the song's remix. It too was directed by Carey, and was shot in black and white. The shot of Carey in a beret that would become the cover for this single is a scene from the video. The video features cameo appearances by Da Brat and Xscape. It begins with Carey and the duo spending time recording the song in Carey's in-home studio. In the video, Carey is wearing a large white, straw hat and features long golden hair. As the trio finishes the song, scenes of Carey by her pool are shown, with cameos made by her dog, Jack. Brat and Xscape are seen poolside with Carey, playing cards and drinking beer, as the trio further bond and laugh. Towards the end of the video, scenes of the trio in the studio are shows, and intermingled with snippets of Carey walking inside her mansion, shared with then husband Tommy Mottola. The video ends with Carey and Brat bonding by the studio and pool.\n\nCarey performed the song throughout the entire run of her Daydream World Tour (1996), Rainbow World Tour (2000), The Adventures of Mimi (2006), The Elusive Chanteuse Show (2014), Caution World Tour (2019) and during select shows on her (2002–03), and Angels Advocate Tour (2009–10). During the Japanese shows in 1996, Carey donned a white suit and jacket, and featured three female back-up singers. Red spotlights were used throughout the performance, as well as some light dance routines. During her Rainbow World Tour, Carey wore a two piece outfit, a pair of pants and top, with golden heels. Three back-up singers were provided, one male and two female, while Carey interacted with the front row fans. On her Adventures of Mimi Tour in 2006, Carey donned a pair of black leggings, worn with a bikini-like top. Wearing Christian Louboutin pumps, Carey sang on the arena's secondary stage, where she sang three of the set-list's titles. On her Elusive Chanteuse Show in 2014, Carey often used the song as her encore, entering the stage in a tight-fitted blue gown and black gloves. Carey included the song in her 2015 Las Vegas residency, Mariah Carey Number 1's, where she walked through the audience for the second verse and chorus. Carey also included the song in her 2018-2019 Las Vegas residency The Butterfly Returns, where she was accompanied by her children Moroccan and Monroe in selected dates.\n\nOn the seventh season of \"American Idol\", David Cook performed a rock arrangement of the song during the April 15, 2008, episode, in which Carey mentored the contestants on her songs. His version received high praise from all three judges, and even Carey herself. Cook's studio recording of the song was released on the iTunes Store during the show's run as \"Always Be My Baby (American Idol Studio Version) – Single\" and was among the season's best-selling singles.\n\nGirl group Fifth Harmony sampled \"Always Be My Baby\" in their song \"Like Mariah\" from their debut album \"Reflection\" (2015), featuring rapper Tyga. In 2016 British DJ Sigala released the single Say You Do, which incorporates parts of the song into its chorus.\n\nIn the Schitt's Creek finale episode, Patrick sings the song to David exchanging their vows at their wedding. \n\nCarey recorded three different sets of vocals for \"Always Be My Baby.\"\n\nThe main remix of the song was also produced by Jermaine Dupri. Known as the \"Mr. Dupri Mix,\" it features re-sung vocals with all of the lyrics and most of the melodic structure retained while using a sample of the song \"Tell Me If You Still Care\" by The SOS Band. It includes a rap from Da Brat and background vocals from Xscape.\n\nCarey recorded yet another set of vocals for dance remixes produced by David Morales that were only released on maxi-single in the UK. Named the \"Always Club Mix\" (along with its edit, the \"Def Classic Radio Mix\"), this club remix of the song has a totally new melodic structure, with the lyrics altered to fit the new melody and song structure. DJ Satoshi Tomiie also created a dance dub that used these new vocals; calling it the \"ST Dub,\" it appeared on the maxi-single that included the Morales mixes.\n\nThe original album vocals were also remixed into a reggae version that included Jamaican-American reggae rap artist Li'l Vicious. Called the \"Reggae Soul Mix,\" this remix includes a rap breakdown by Vicious, with him shouting over Carey's vocals throughout the track.\n\nWorldwide CD single\n\nU.S. 7\" single\n\nU.S. and Canada CD single\nWorldwide 12\" single\n\nU.K. CD single (Part 1)\n\nU.K. CD single (Part 2)\n\nCredits adapted from the \"Daydream\" liner notes.\n\nWorks cited\n"}
{"id": "1843402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843402", "title": "Pictou—Antigonish—Guysborough", "text": "Pictou—Antigonish—Guysborough\n\nPictou—Antigonish—Guysborough was a federal electoral district in the province of Nova Scotia, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004.\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 from Cape Breton Highlands—Canso and Central Nova ridings, and consisted of the counties of Pictou, Antigonish and Guysborough. It was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Cape Breton—Canso and Central Nova ridings.\n\nIts only member was Peter G. MacKay from the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nThis riding elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843406", "title": "T. G. Lee Dairy", "text": "T. G. Lee Dairy\n\nT.G. Lee Dairy is a dairy company founded in 1925 that produces dairy products for the U.S. state of Florida. The company's headquarters is in Orlando, and it is a regional brand of Dean Foods.\n\nIts founder, Thomas Gilbert Lee (1894-1986), initially started the company to produce dairy products for Central Florida. Today, there are T.G. Lee processing plants across the state, and its various dairy products are sold in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants, and institutional food service operations. It was one of the first dairy farms in Florida to use artificial cattle breeding techniques.\n\nThe area of independent businesses around the T.G. Lee Dairy main headquarters is known colloquially as \"The Milk District.\"\n\nT.G. Lee is also known for its iconic yellow-plastic milk containers, which are designed to help promote and preserve milk quality, and protect minerals and vitamins in the milk from the effects of constant exposure to sunlight which can cause faster spoiling in milk than normal. Scientific studies have shown that this claim is accurate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843409", "title": "Software quality assurance", "text": "Software quality assurance\n\nSoftware quality assurance (SQA) is a means of monitoring the software engineering processes and methods used in a project to ensure proper quality. This is accomplished by many and varied approaches. It may include ensuring conformance to standards or models, such as ISO 9000 or CMMI.\n\nIt includes standards and procedures that administrators may use to review and audit software products and activities to verify that the software meets standards. According to ISO/IEC 15504 v.2.5 (SPICE), it is a supporting process that provides the independent assurance that all work products, activities and processes comply with the predefined plans and ISO 15504.\n\nSQA encompasses the entire software development process, including requirements definition, software design, coding, code reviews, source code control, software configuration management, testing, release management and product integration. It is organized into goals, commitments, abilities, activities, measurements and verification.\n\nSQA involves a three-prong approach:\n\n\nStandards for software quality assurance plans are defined in ISO 9000-3 (original), now ISO 90003ANSI/IEEE. External entities can be contracted to verify that projects are standard-compliant.\n\nQuality assurance activities take place at each phase of development. Analysts use application technology to achieve high-quality specifications and designs. Technicians find problems with related software quality through meetings. Tests are created by developers and/or dedicated testers for each significant use case. Standards violations are identified and addressed throughout development. Product or program managers ensure that feature, architecture and component changes are made only after appropriate review. The team monitors statistics about defect discovery, severity and fix rates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843410", "title": "Adblock Plus", "text": "Adblock Plus\n\nAdblock Plus (ABP) is an open-source browser extension for content-filtering and ad blocking. It is developed by developer Wladimir Palant's Eyeo GmbH, a German software company. The extension has been released for Mozilla Firefox (including mobile), Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge (Chromium based version), Opera, Safari, Yandex Browser, and Android.\n\nIn 2011, Adblock Plus and Eyeo attracted considerable controversy over its \"Acceptable Ads\" program to \"allow certain non-intrusive ads\" (such as Google AdWords) to be allowed (whitelisted) under the extension's default settings. While participation in the whitelisting process was free for small websites, large advertising companies were required to pay a fee in order for their ads to be whitelisted.\n\nThe original version of Adblock (0.1) was written as a side project for Firefox by Danish software developer Henrik Aasted Sorensen, a university student at the time, in 2002. It hid image ads through user-defined filters from the page but did not actually prevent them from being downloaded. Sorensen maintained the open source project until Adblock 0.3 after which the project changed hands. This was also the last stable release of Adblock.\n\nStarting with Adblock 0.4, in early 2003, the development of Adblock was taken over by \"rue\". This version used XBL to hide the ads and with this objects like Flash or Java could also be blocked. But as with the original version the ads were still able to be downloaded. This was a developer build and not a stable release as were subsequent further versions (either released as nightly or development builds) making Adblock 0.3 the last stable release.\n\nAdblock 0.5, 2004, used content policies for ad blocking which prevented the ads from being downloaded instead of simply hiding them. Background images, scripts and stylesheets could be blocked through this approach as well. XBL support was dropped in this version in favor of content policies. These updates were implemented by \"rue\" with the help of \"Wladimir Palant\" who contributed other developments as well.\n\nSometime after Adblock 0.5's release the development of the project stalled. Development stagnated beginning in 2004 and entirely stopped in early 2005. That's when Michael McDonald created a separate enhanced version of Adblock called Adblock Plus 0.5 to improve upon the original and add additional features. No update for the original Adblock was issued even after Firefox 1.5's release in November 2005. An official update supporting 1.5 was released more than a month later. In the meantime \"McDonald\" had released a compatible Adblock Plus version for Firefox 1.5.\n\nWladimir Palant wanted to help rue with the development of Adblock 0.5 but did not continue due to development disagreements. He eventually took over development of Adblock Plus from McDonald and rewrote the codebase, releasing Adblock Plus 0.6 in January 2006, thus making Adblock Plus a separate extension and not simply an enhanced version of Adblock.\n\nDevelopment of the original Adblock stopped with version 0.5 and the project was abandoned in late 2006.\n\nMichael McDonald created Adblock Plus 0.5, which improved on the original Adblock by incorporating the following features:\n\nMcDonald discontinued development and transferred the name to Wladimir Palant, who released Adblock Plus 0.6 with a rewritten codebase in January 2006. \"PC World\" chose Adblock Plus as one of the 100 best products of 2007, featuring in at 95.\n\nAdblock Plus for Google Chrome has been available since December 2010 and has over 10 million users. It has also become the most popular extension for Firefox, with around 14 million users as of December 2017.\n\nAdblock Plus was released as an app for Android devices in November 2012. On March 3, 2013, the Android app was removed from the Google Play Store along with similar ad-blocking apps. Some apps remain in the Play Store with the caveat that they require root access in order to function. Adblock Plus, while not in the Play Store, is still available on the app's website. Users can download the .apk file directly and install it as a third-party app if they allow \"Unknown Sources\" in Android settings. The application page as of December 2017 features the Adblock Browser for Android instead of the original app.\n\nAdblock Plus has been available for Internet Explorer since August 2013, Safari since January 2014, and Yandex Browser since December 2014.\n\nAn Adblock Plus browser beta version was made available in May 2015, called the \"Adblock Browser\". Adblock Browser 1.0 was released on September 7, 2015, based on Firefox for mobile.\n\nAdblock Plus has created an independent board to review what is an acceptable ad and what is not.\n\nLike Mozilla's built-in image blocker, Adblock Plus blocks HTTP and HTTPS requests according to their source address and additional context information and can block iframes, scripts, and Flash. It also uses automatically generated user stylesheets to hide elements such as text ads on a page as they load instead of blocking them, known as element hiding.\n\nOn rooted devices, the Android app blocks ads on all web traffic including mobile networks. For non-rooted devices, ads are only blocked through a Wi-Fi connection and requires the user to set up a local proxy server for each network in order for the app to function. The app uses a local proxy server to intercept web traffic and remove ads before showing content to the user. Most of the content that users are trying to block will be removed, though some content is missed and the app is not as reliable at blocking ads as the browser versions. The app can be configured to auto-start every time the device reboots, minimizing the action required by the user.\n\nBasic filter rules can include wildcards represented by asterisks (codice_1). Sites and objects can be whitelisted with filters that start with two \"at\" signs (codice_2). Regular expressions delimited by slashes (codice_3) can be used. Adblock Plus also supports a more-sophisticated syntax that gives fine-grain control over filters.\nAn example of the sophisticated filtering would be codice_4, which will hide the centralNotice element used by Wikipedia to display donation requests.\n\nUsers can add external filtersets. Adblock Plus includes the ability to use one or more external filter subscriptions that are automatically updated. Filterset.G is incompatible with this system (and Adblock Plus specifically recommends against using Filterset.G for other reasons as well), but other filtersets can be added by typing their addresses. A list of known Adblock Plus subscriptions is maintained on the Adblock Plus official website.\n\nEasyList was the most popular Adblock Plus filter list as of August 2011, with over 12 million subscribers. Created by Rick Petnel, it became officially recommended by the Adblock Plus program, and filter lists for other languages were built on top of it. Petnel died in 2009 following which Palant placed a user named \"Ares2\" as the new maintainer. The filter lists EasyList and EasyPrivacy are both subscribed by default in uBlock Origin but not in Adblock Plus itself. Both of these filter lists will also be used by Google Chrome starting February 15, 2018, on sites not complying with the Better Ads Standards.\n\nIn May 2013, the former second most popular Adblock Plus filter list, Fanboy's List, was merged with EasyList.\nIn December 2014, it was reported that Zeit Online and Handelsblatt had brought suit against Eyeo GmbH in the .\nIn April 2015 the court rejected the suit.\nAxel Springer SE has filed a court order for the removal of the Adblock Plus post though there is a redacted version and people have posted videos and posts on how to get around the Axel Springer wall. However, in April 2018, Germany's Federal Constitutional Court found in favor of Eyeo and ruled that Adblock Plus did not violate any laws.\n\nIn August 2017, the Admiral advertising company sent a Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) takedown notice to EasyList to remove the domain \"functionalclam.com\" from the blacklist. Admiral argues that the domain is part of its access control technology of its advertising platform, and therefore the blacklisting is an attempt to circumvent a technical protection measure, which is forbidden under the DMCA section 1201.\n\nSome webmasters have used JavaScript to detect the effects of the popular Adblock Plus filters. This is done by generating a honeypot-like URL, verifying its delivery, and DOM verification after the web page is rendered by the web browser, to ensure the expected advertising elements are present. Detection is simplified since the extension is not yet capable of replacing content; Loopback proxies provide this additional functionality.\n\nThese methods do not detect the presence of the Adblock Plus extension directly, only the effects of the filters. They are vulnerable to continued filter updates, and whitelist-filtering web scripts with extensions such as NoScript.\n\nAn attempt was made to detect the plug-in itself, but that detection method was rendered unusable by the 0.7.5.2 update of Adblock Plus.\n\nGoogle Chrome had a defect in Content Security Policy that allowed the detection of any installed extension, including Adblock Plus for Google Chrome. The solution of this was possible only in Google Chrome 18, and requires each developer to make some changes in their extensions. Adblock Plus for Google Chrome fixed this in version 1.3.\n\nStarting with Adblock Plus 3.2 for Chrome, Firefox and Opera, the Adblock Plus filter syntax allowed filter lists to execute arbitrary code in the context of certain kinds of web pages via the codice_5 filter option. This feature could be used by list maintainers to fix bugs in web pages caused by ad blocking or to circumvent ad blocker detection, but also could be abused by malicious filter rules. This issue was not unique to Adblock Plus and affected all extensions that offered such functionality. By contrast, uBlock Origin did not support this functionality and required all such scripts to pass a manual verification by the uBlock Origin maintainers. The issue was fixed in Adblock Plus 3.5.2 for Chrome, Firefox and Opera.\n\nThe owners of some websites which use third-party hosted online advertising to fund the hosting of their websites have argued that the use of ad-blocking software such as Adblock Plus risks cutting off their revenue stream. While some websites such as \"The New York Times\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\" have successfully implemented subscription and membership-based paywall systems for revenue, many websites today rely on third-party hosted online advertising to function.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Wladimir Palant announced that certain \"acceptable\" ads would be whitelisted in upcoming builds of the Adblock Plus software, with the option to remove whitelisted ads by using a custom setting in the software. According to Palant, only static advertisements with a maximum of one script will be permitted as \"acceptable\", with a preference towards text-only content. The announcement generated controversy both on Adblock Plus's website and on social media sites like Reddit.\n\nIn 2012, Adblock Plus's managing director Till Faida told the Swiss newspaper \"Thurgauer Zeitung\" that the \"strategic partners\" on Adblock Plus's whitelist would not be named, but that the partnership is part of the company's \"Acceptable Ads\" whitelist project. In February 2013, an anonymous source accused Adblock Plus developer Wladimir Palant of offering to add his site's advertisements to the whitelist in return for one-third of the advertisement revenue. In June 2013, blogger Sascha Pallenberg accused the developers of Adblock Plus of maintaining business connections to \"strategic partners in the advertising industry\", and called ABP a \"mafia-like advertising network\". He alleged that Adblock Plus whitelisted all ads coming from \"friendly\" sites and subsidiaries, and promoted their product using fake reviews and pornography. Faida responded to Pallenberg's accusations, stating that \"a large part of the information concerning the collaboration with our partners is correct\", but that the company did not see these industry connections as a conflict of interest. He said that the company is convinced that the \"acceptable ads\" business model will be successful and says that the whitelisting criteria are \"completely transparent\". He also stated that \"We have an initiative called Acceptable Ads to support websites with unobtrusive ads. Every website can participate. The [Pallenberg] article on purpose just slanders our good name\".\n\nAttacks were made in 2016 against ad-blocking with paid whitelists—though Adblock Plus was not mentioned by name—by content providers who provide content free of charge to users, deriving revenue from advertisements, and by industry and government sources who criticise the \"unsavoury\" business model, which has been described as a \"modern-day protection racket\".\n\nIn May 2016, Adblock Plus parent company Eyeo began a collaboration with the online donation service Flattr to create a service that would allow users to automatically donate money to online publishers based on their engagement. The service was conceived as a way for users to automatically support online publishers as an alternative to advertising; Eyeo would acquire Flattr outright the following year, seeking to expand upon this model as Flattr's main service. In September 2016, Eyeo announced that it would launch a \"marketplace\" for ads that meet its acceptability criteria.\n\nStarting with version 2.0, AdBlock Plus started allowing \"acceptable ads\" by default, with acceptable ad standards being set by The Acceptable Ads Committee. They also have started charging large institutions fees to become whitelisted and marked as \"acceptable\", stating \"[Adblock Plus] only charge large entities a license fee so that we can offer the same whitelisting services to everyone and maintain our resources to develop the best software for our users.\" on their about page.\n\nThe inclusion of chumboxes such as Taboola and Outbrain has led some people to characterize the \"acceptable ads\" program as simple extortion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843412", "title": "Traverse City Beach Bums", "text": "Traverse City Beach Bums\n\nThe Traverse City Beach Bums were a professional baseball team based in the Traverse City, Michigan, suburb of Blair Township, in the United States. The Beach Bums played in the East Division of the Frontier League, which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. Since their establishment in 2006, the Beach Bums played their home games at Wuerfel Park.\n\nThe \"Beach Bums\" name referred to the residents and visitors who come to Michigan's most popular resort town, to spend time on the beach. Traverse City lies on the Grand Traverse Bay, a branch of Lake Michigan. The team's colors of navy blue and gold represent the region's bays and bright summer sunshine.\n\nWuerfel Park averaged well over 200,000 fans per season for Beach Bums home games, ranking near the top of attendance lists in independent baseball. In their first three seasons, the Beach Bums drew over 600,000 fans with a mix of loyal, local fans, tourists, and regional baseball fans.\n\nJohn and Leslye Wuerfel were the managing members of the Beach Bums; their last name is the namesake of the Beach Bums' home ballpark. Their son, Jason, was the Beach Bums' Vice President and Director of Baseball Operations. Jason Wuerfel lettered four times with the University of Michigan varsity baseball team, and also won the 2003 Wolverine Award for Spirit and Leadership. He played professionally with the Elmira Pioneers, the Mid-Missouri Mavericks, and the Ohio Valley Redcoats. Jason also owns and operates the Beach Bums Baseball Academy, an organization that instructs young baseball players in the Traverse City area.\n\nIn November 2008, the Beach Bums named two new coaches, with Gregg Langbehn being hired as the manager and Roger Mason accepting the position of pitching coach. Langbehn had previously spent 10 seasons as a coach and manager in the Houston Astros minor league system, while Mason, a Northern Michigan native, spent nine seasons as a pitcher in major league baseball, including a World Series appearance with the 1993 Philadelphia Phillies.\n\nIn 2018, the team was sold to the owners of the Midwest League West Michigan Whitecaps who folded the Frontier League franchise and launched a new team in the Northwoods League, the Traverse City Pit Spitters. \n\nThe Beach Bums were Traverse City's first professional baseball team since 1915. Predecessors included the semi-professional Traverse City Hustlers of the 1890s, and the professional Traverse City Resorters, from 1910 to 1915.\n\nFollowing the 2004 season, the Frontier League granted a franchise for Traverse City, Michigan. However, the league was not sure whether to consider the team for expansion or relocation. In 2005, the Richmond Roosters were purchased by the Wuerfels and moved to Traverse City.\n\nThe Beach Bums played their first home game at Wuerfel Park on May 24, 2006, against the Kalamazoo Kings, with a sell-out crowd of 5,825. The club's final game, a 9-2 loss to the Windy City ThunderBolts, was played at Wuerfel Park on August 31, 2018, before 3,142 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843416", "title": "Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup—Témiscouata—Les Basques", "text": "Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup—Témiscouata—Les Basques\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 as \"Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup—Témiscouata\" from parts of Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup riding. Its name was changed in 1997 to \"Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup—Témiscouata—Les Basques\".\n\nIt consisted of:\n\nIt was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Rivière-du-Loup—Montmagny and Rimouski—Témiscouata ridings. Its only Member of Parliament was Paul Crête of the Bloc Québécois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843428", "title": "Brampton Centre", "text": "Brampton Centre\n\nBrampton Centre () is a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that is represented in the House of Commons of Canada. This riding was created in 1996 from parts of Brampton riding and in 2013, Elections Canada redistributed 3 ridings in the city of Brampton to bring back Brampton Centre. This was primarily due to large population increases in the Greater Toronto Area, and Peel Region in particular.\n\nThe riding was recreated for the federal election held 19 October 2015. The newly carved out Brampton Centre riding was reconstituted by taking portions of Brampton—Springdale, Bramalea—Gore—Malton and a small portion of Mississauga—Brampton South.\n\nThe new boundaries start from Hurontario Street and Bovaird Drive West; South on Main Street to the intersection of Vodden Street; East on Vodden Street East to Kennedy Road; Kennedy Road south to Steeles Avenue East; West on Steeles Avenue to Hurontario Street; South on Hurontario Street to Highway 407; East on Highway 407 to Torbram Road; North on Torbram Road to Williams Parkway; West on Williams Parkway to Highway 410; North on Highway 410 to Bovaird Drive East; West on Bovaird Drive East to Main Street.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843431", "title": "Tolomeo desk lamp", "text": "Tolomeo desk lamp\n\nThe Tolomeo incandescent desk lamp is an icon of Italian modern design. It was designed by Michele De Lucchi and Giancarlo Fassina in 1986 for the Artemide company. In its original configuration, it consists of a heavy base, two straight polished aluminum arm sections (each approximately 45 cm long), and a matte aluminum reflector head which can swivel 360°. Steel tension cables attached to springs hidden inside the arms complete the constant-tension structure. \"Tolomeo\" is the Italian version of the name Ptolemy. In the dot-com period, it became popular as a symbol of conspicuous consumption and high design consciousness in high-tech companies as well as in architectural and graphic design offices. It won the Compasso d'Oro design prize in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843432", "title": "Brampton West—Mississauga", "text": "Brampton West—Mississauga\n\nBrampton West—Mississauga was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004. This riding was created in 1996, from parts of Brampton riding.\n\nIt consisted of the parts of the cities of Brampton and Mississauga bounded by a line drawn from the northwest corner of the City of Brampton northeast along that limit, southeast along McLaughlin Road, northeast along Highway No. 7, southeast along Main Street, northeast along Steeles Avenue, southeast along Kennedy Road, southwest along the limit between the cities of Brampton and Mississauga, southeast along Hurontario Street, east along the Macdonald-Cartier Freeway, southeast along Highway No. 403, southwest along Eglinton Avenue, northwest along the Credit River, west along the Macdonald-Cartier Freeway to the eastern corner of the Town of Halton Hills on the limit of the City of Mississauga, northwest along the limits of the cities of Mississauga and Brampton to the point of commencement.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Brampton West, Mississauga—Brampton South and Mississauga—Streetsville ridings.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843434", "title": "Erie—Lincoln", "text": "Erie—Lincoln\n\nErie—Lincoln was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004, and was a provincial electoral district represented in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007. This riding was created in 1996 from parts of Erie, Haldimand—Norfolk and Lincoln ridings. \nIt consisted of the City of Port Colborne, the towns of Fort Erie and Lincoln and the townships of Wainfleet and West Lincoln in the Regional Municipality of Niagara, and the Town of Dunnville in the Regional Municipality of Haldimand-Norfolk.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Haldimand—Norfolk, Niagara Falls, Niagara West—Glanbrook, and Welland ridings. It was replaced as a provincial riding in the 2007 provincial election by the new federal riding boundaries.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843435", "title": "Norway at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Norway at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nNorway was represented at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney by the Norwegian Olympic Committee and Confederation of Sports. 93 competitors, 44 men and 49 women, took part in 54 events in 15 sports.\n\nIn the sixth appearance by the nation in the archery competition at the Olympics, Norway represented by three men and one woman. Their combined record was 1-4. The men's team also lost their first match.\n\nMen's team:\n\nMen's 200 m\n\n\nMen's 800 m\n\nMen's 5000 m\n\nMen's 3000 m steeplechase\n\nMen's javelin throw\n\nMen's triple jump\n\nMen's decathlon\n\nWomen's 10000 m\n\nWomen's Javelin Throw\n\nWomen's High Jump\n\nWomen's 20 km Walk\n\n\nMen's Kayak Singles 500m\n\nMen's Kayak Singles 1000m\n\nMen's Kayak Doubles 500m\n\nMen's Kayak Doubles 1,000m\n\nMen's Canoe Singles 500m\n\nMen's Canoe Singles 1000m\n\nMen's Cross Country Mountain Bike\n\n\nWomen's Mountain Bike\n\nMen's Individual Time Trial\n\nMen's Road Race\n\n\n\n\nWomen's Individual Time Trial\n\nWomen's Road Race\n\n\n\nThree fencers, all women, represented Norway in 2000.\n\n\n\n\nWomen's Single Handed Dinghy (Europe)\n\nWomen's Double Handed Dinghy (470)\n\nOpen Laser\n\nOpen Three Handed Keelboat (Soling)\n\nOpen High Performance Two Handed Dinghy (49er)\n"}
{"id": "1843437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843437", "title": "Haldimand—Norfolk—Brant", "text": "Haldimand—Norfolk—Brant\n\nHaldimand—Norfolk—Brant was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004. This riding was created in 1996 from parts of Elgin—Norfolk and Haldimand—Norfolk ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the Regional Municipality of Haldimand-Norfolk (excluding the Town of Dunnville), the townships of Burford, Oakland and Onondaga in the County of Brant, the Six Nations Indian Reserve No. 40 and the New Credit Indian Reserve No. 40A.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Brant, Haldimand—Norfolk and Oxford ridings.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n!align=\"left\" colspan=3|Total\n!align=\"right\"|46,248\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\"|\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843442", "title": "Markham (electoral district)", "text": "Markham (electoral district)\n\nMarkham was a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada created in 1988. Also known as Markham—Whitchurch-Stouffville, it was a federal electoral district that elected representatives to the House of Commons of Canada from 1988 to 2000. Notably in 1997 this was the only district in Ontario that did not elect a Liberal MP.\n\nMarkham riding was created from parts of York North and York—Peel ridings. It initially consisted of the towns of Markham and Whitchurch-Stouffville in the Regional Municipality of York. The name of the electoral district was changed in 1989 to \"Markham—Whitchurch-Stouffville\". The electoral district was redistributed 1996 into Markham, Oak Ridges and Thornhill ridings. The new Markham riding consisted of the part of the Town of Markham east of Highway No. 404 and south of 16th Avenue.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Markham—Unionville and Oak Ridges—Markham ridings.\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843443", "title": "Mississauga Centre", "text": "Mississauga Centre\n\nMississauga Centre () is a federal electoral district in the Peel Region of Ontario, Canada, that has represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004 and since 2015.\n\nThe riding contains the neighbourhoods of Creditview, Mavis-Erindale, City Centre, and parts of Fairview, Mississauga Valleys, Rathwood, Erindale, East Credit and Hurontario.\n\nThis riding was first created in 1996 from parts of Mississauga South, Mississauga East and Mississauga West ridings. Throughout its initial existence, it was represented in the House of Commons by Carolyn Parrish. It consisted of the central part of the City of Mississauga.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Mississauga East—Cooksville, Mississauga South, Mississauga—Brampton South and Mississauga—Erindale ridings.\n\nThe riding was reinstated with the 2012 redistribution from parts of Mississauga East—Cooksville, Mississauga—Erindale, Mississauga—Brampton South, and Mississauga—Streetsville.\n\nEthnic groups: 32.8% White, 26.4% South Asian, 11.6 Chinese, 6.6% Filipino, 6.4% Arab, 5.0% Black, 2.6% Southeast Asian, 2.4% Latin American, 1.3% Korean, 1.3% West Asian \nLanguages: 42.9% English, 9.8% Chinese, 6.0% Urdu, 5.7% Arabic, 3.4% Tagalog, 3.1% Polish, 2.9% Portuguese, 2.8% Punjabi, 2.6% Spanish, 1.8% Hindi, 1.7% Tamil, 1.7% Vietnamese, 1.5% Italian, 1.4% French, 1.2% Gujarati, 1.0% Farsi, 1.0% Korean\nReligions: 52.9% Christian (33.8% Catholic, 4.0% Christian Orthodox, 2.2% Anglican, 1.5% United Church, 1.3% Pentecostal, 1.3% Baptist, 1.2% Presbyterian, 7.6% Other), 16.5% Muslim, 8.9% Hindu, 2.9% Buddhist, 2.8% Sikh, 15.2% No religion \nMedian income (2010): $27,738 \nAverage income (2010): $36,502\n\nThe riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843446", "title": "Niagara Centre", "text": "Niagara Centre\n\nNiagara Centre (; formerly Welland) is a federal electoral district in the Niagara Region of Ontario that has been represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1867 to 1988 and since 1997.\n\nEthnic groups: 87.1% White, 5.4% Aboriginal, 1.9% Black, 1.5% Chinese, 1.2% South Asian \nLanguages: 82.7% English, 6.7% French, 2.9% Italian\nReligions: (2011) 76.6% Christian (40.4% Catholic, 8.5% Anglican, 7.3% United Church, 3.3% Presbyterian, 1.9% Baptist, 1.8% Lutheran, 1.3% Pentecostal, 12.1% Other), 21.8% No religion \nMedian income (2015): $30,072 \nAverage income (2015): $38,460\n\nNiagara Centre consists of the cities of Welland, Thorold, and Port Colborne, and the part of the City of St. Catharines lying south of a line drawn from the southern city limit north along First Louth St, east along St. Paul Street West, northeast along St. Paul Crescent, east and south along Twelve Mile Creek, and east along Glendale Avenue to the eastern city limit.\n\nWelland was originally created in 1867 by the British North America Act. It consisted initially of the Townships of Bertie, Crowland, Humberstone, Stamford, Thorold, and Willoughby, and the Villages of Chippawa, Clifton, Fort Erie, Thorold and Welland.\n\nIn 1892, the riding was redefined to exclude reference to the Village of Clifton, and include the villages of Niagara Falls and Port Colborne, and the town of Niagara Falls. In 1903, it was redefined to consist of the county of Welland.\n\nIn 1952, it was redefined to consist of the townships of Pelham, Thorold, Crowland, Humberstone and Wainfleet, including the city of Welland and the towns of Port Colborne, Thorold, Fonthill and Humberstone.\n\nIn 1966, it was redefined to consist of:\n\nIn 1976, it was redefined to consist of the City of Welland, the Town of Thorold, and the part of the City of St. Catharines lying south of the Canadian National Railway.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 1987 when it was redistributed between Welland—St. Catharines—Thorold, St. Catharines and Erie ridings.\n\nA new riding, named Niagara Centre was created in 1996 from parts of Erie and Welland—St. Catharines—Thorold ridings. It existed only for the 1997 and 2000 elections.\n\nIt consisted of the Town of Pelham, the City of Welland, the southern part of the City of St. Catharines, and the part of the City of Thorold lying west of the Welland Canal.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Niagara West—Glanbrook, St. Catharines and Welland ridings.\n\nIn 2003, a new Welland riding was created from parts of Erie—Lincoln, Niagara Centre, Niagara Falls and St. Catharines ridings.\n\nWelland was abolished in 2013, and was largely replaced by a new riding named Niagara Centre. The riding lost Wainfleet and the rural southwestern corner of St. Catharines.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\nNote:The 2000 Alliance vote is compared to the 1997 Reform vote\n\n \n\nNote: NDP vote is compared to CCF vote in 1958 election.\n\nNote: \"National Government\" vote is compared to Conservative vote in 1935 election. \n\nNote: Conservative vote is compared to Government vote in 1917 election, and Liberal vote is compared to Opposition vote.\n\nNote: popular vote is compared to redsult in 1891 general election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843447", "title": "Crank–Nicolson method", "text": "Crank–Nicolson method\n\nIn numerical analysis, the Crank–Nicolson method is a finite difference method used for numerically solving the heat equation and similar partial differential equations. It is a second-order method in time. It is implicit in time and can be written as an implicit Runge–Kutta method, and it is numerically stable. The method was developed by John Crank and Phyllis Nicolson in the mid 20th century.\n\nFor diffusion equations (and many other equations), it can be shown the Crank–Nicolson method is unconditionally stable. However, the approximate solutions can still contain (decaying) spurious oscillations if the ratio of time step Δ times the thermal diffusivity to the square of space step, Δ, is large (typically larger than 1/2 per Von Neumann stability analysis). For this reason, whenever large time steps or high spatial resolution is necessary, the less accurate backward Euler method is often used, which is both stable and immune to oscillations.\n\nThe Crank–Nicolson method is based on the trapezoidal rule, giving second-order convergence in time. For linear equations, the trapezoidal rule is equivalent to the implicit midpoint method - the simplest example of a Gauss-Legendre implicit Runge-Kutta method - which also has the property of being a geometric integrator. For example, in one dimension, suppose the partial differential equation is\n\nLetting formula_2 and formula_3 evaluated for formula_4 and formula_5, the equation for Crank–Nicolson method is a combination of the forward Euler method at formula_6 and the backward Euler method at \"n\" + 1 (note, however, that the method itself is \"not\" simply the average of those two methods, as the backward Euler equation has an implicit dependence on the solution):\n\nNote that this is an \"implicit method\": to get the \"next\" value of \"u\" in time, a system of algebraic equations must be solved. If the partial differential equation is nonlinear, the discretization will also be nonlinear so that advancing in time will involve the solution of a system of nonlinear algebraic equations, though linearizations are possible. In many problems, especially linear diffusion, the algebraic problem is tridiagonal and may be efficiently solved with the tridiagonal matrix algorithm, which gives a fast formula_10 direct solution as opposed to the usual formula_11 for a full matrix.\n\nThe Crank–Nicolson method is often applied to diffusion problems. As an example, for linear diffusion,\n\napplying a finite difference spatial discretization for the right hand side, the Crank–Nicolson discretization is then :\n\nor, letting formula_14:\n\ngiven that the terms on the right-hand side of the equation are known, this is a tridiagonal problem, so that formula_16 may be efficiently solved by using the tridiagonal matrix algorithm in favor of a much more costly matrix inversion.\n\nA quasilinear equation, such as (this is a minimalistic example and not general)\n\nwould lead to a nonlinear system of algebraic equations which could not be easily solved as above; however, it is possible in some cases to linearize the problem by using the old value for formula_18, that is formula_19 instead of formula_20. Other times, it may be possible to estimate formula_20 using an explicit method and maintain stability.\n\nThis is a solution usually employed for many purposes when there is a contamination problem in streams or rivers under steady flow conditions but information is given in one dimension only. Often the problem can be simplified into a 1-dimensional problem and still yield useful information.\n\nHere we model the concentration of a solute contaminant in water. This problem is composed of three parts: the known diffusion equation (formula_22 chosen as constant), an advective component (which means the system is evolving in space due to a velocity field), which we choose to be a constant \"Ux\", and a lateral interaction between longitudinal channels (k).\n\nwhere \"C\" is the concentration of the contaminant and subscripts \"N\" and \"M\" correspond to \"previous\" and \"next\" channel.\n\nThe Crank–Nicolson method (where \"i\" represents position and \"j\" time) transforms each component of the PDE into the following:\n\nNow we create the following constants to simplify the algebra:\n\nand substitute (), (), (), (), (), (), \"α\", \"β\" and \"λ\" into (). We then put the \"new time\" terms on the left (\"j\" + 1) and the \"present time\" terms on the right (\"j\") to get:\n\nTo model the \"first\" channel, we realize that it can only be in contact with the following channel (\"M\"), so the expression is simplified to:\n\nIn the same way, to model the \"last\" channel, we realize that it can only be in contact with the previous channel (\"N\"), so the expression is simplified to:\n\nTo solve this linear system of equations we must now see that boundary conditions must be given first to the beginning of the channels:\n\nformula_29: initial condition for the channel at present time step \nformula_30: initial condition for the channel at next time step \nformula_31: initial condition for the previous channel to the one analyzed at present time step \nformula_32: initial condition for the next channel to the one analyzed at present time step.\n\nFor the last cell of the channels (\"z\") the most convenient condition becomes an adiabatic one, so\n\nThis condition is satisfied if and only if (regardless of a null value)\n\nLet us solve this problem (in a matrix form) for the case of 3 channels and 5 nodes (including the initial boundary condition). We express this as a linear system problem:\n\nwhere\n\nNow we must realize that \"AA\" and \"BB\" should be arrays made of four different subarrays (remember that only three channels are considered for this example but it covers the main part discussed above).\n\nwhere the elements mentioned above correspond to the next arrays and an additional 4x4 full of zeros. Please note that the sizes of AA and BB are 12x12:\n\nThe \"d\" vector here is used to hold the boundary conditions. In this example it is a 12x1 vector:\n\nTo find the concentration at any time, one must iterate the following equation:\n\nWhen extending into two dimensions on a uniform Cartesian grid, the derivation is similar and the results may lead to a system of band-diagonal equations rather than tridiagonal ones. The two-dimensional heat equation\n\ncan be solved with the Crank–Nicolson discretization of\n\nassuming that a square grid is used so that formula_50. This equation can be simplified somewhat by rearranging terms and using the CFL number\n\nFor the Crank–Nicolson numerical scheme, a low CFL number is not required for stability, however it is required for numerical accuracy. We can now write the scheme as:\n\nSolving such a linear system is not practical due to extremely high time complexity of solving a linear system by the means of gaussian elimination or even Strassen algorithm. Hence an alternating direction implicit method can be implemented to solve the numerical PDE whereby one dimension is treated implicitly and other dimension explicitly for half of the assigned time-step and vice versa for the remainder half of the time-step. The benefit of this strategy is that the implicit solver only requires a tridiagonal matrix algorithm to be solved. The difference between the true Crank–Nicolson solution and ADI approximated solution has an order of accuracy of formula_53 and hence can be ignored with a sufficiently small time-step.\n\nBecause a number of other phenomena can be modeled with the heat equation (often called the diffusion equation in financial mathematics), the Crank–Nicolson method has been applied to those areas as well. Particularly, the Black–Scholes option pricing model's differential equation can be transformed into the heat equation, and thus numerical solutions for option pricing can be obtained with the Crank–Nicolson method.\n\nThe importance of this for finance is that option pricing problems, when extended beyond the standard assumptions (e.g. incorporating changing dividends), cannot be solved in closed form, but can be solved using this method. Note however, that for non-smooth final conditions (which happen for most financial instruments), the Crank–Nicolson method is not satisfactory as numerical oscillations are not damped. For vanilla options, this results in oscillation in the gamma value around the strike price. Therefore, special damping initialization steps are necessary (e.g., fully implicit finite difference method).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843450", "title": "Oak Ridges (electoral district)", "text": "Oak Ridges (electoral district)\n\nOak Ridges was a federal and provincial electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003 and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007. This riding was created in 1996, from parts of Markham—Whitchurch—Stouffville and York North ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the towns of Richmond Hill and Whitchurch-Stouffville, and the part of the town of Markham (now a city) north of 16th Avenue.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Oak Ridges—Markham and Richmond Hill ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843455", "title": "Perth—Middlesex", "text": "Perth—Middlesex\n\nPerth—Middlesex was an electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003 and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007.\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 from parts of Lambton—Middlesex, London—Middlesex and Perth—Wellington—Waterloo ridings. It consisted of:\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Elgin—Middlesex—London, Middlesex—Kent—Lambton and Perth—Wellington ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843456", "title": "Pickering—Ajax—Uxbridge", "text": "Pickering—Ajax—Uxbridge\n\nPickering—Ajax—Uxbridge was an electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003. This riding was created in 1996, from parts of Durham and Ontario ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the Township of Uxbridge, the Town of Pickering, and the part of the Town of Ajax lying north of Kingston Road.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Ajax—Pickering, Clarington—Scugog—Uxbridge and Pickering—Scarborough East ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843457", "title": "Mark Ford (poet)", "text": "Mark Ford (poet)\n\nMark Ford (born 1962 Nairobi, Kenya) is a British poet. He currently serves as the Head of the Department of English Language and Literature at University College London.\n\nMark was born in Nairobi, Kenya on the 24th June, 1962 to Donald and Mary Ford. He went to school in London, and attended Oxford University and, as a Kennedy Scholar, Harvard University. He studied for his doctorate at Oxford University on the poetry of John Ashbery, and has published widely on nineteenth- and twentieth-century American writing, including on Raymond Roussel. From 1991-1993 he was Visiting Lecturer at Kyoto University in Japan. \n\nHe is Professor of English in the Department of English Language and Literature at University College London.\n\nHe is a regular contributor to the \"New York Review of Books\", \"Times Literary Supplement\", and the \"London Review of Books\".\n\nHelen Vendler compared him with John Ashbery.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843463", "title": "Stoney Creek (electoral district)", "text": "Stoney Creek (electoral district)\n\nStoney Creek was an electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003 and in the legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007. It was located in the Hamilton area of Southern Ontario. This riding was created in 1996 from parts of Hamilton—Wentworth and Lincoln ridings.\n\nIt consisted of the City of Stoney Creek, the Township of Glanbrook, and the southeast part of the City of Hamilton, and the Town of Grimsby.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Hamilton East—Stoney Creek, Hamilton Mountain and Niagara West—Glanbrook ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843465", "title": "Timiskaming—Cochrane", "text": "Timiskaming—Cochrane\n\nTimiskaming—Cochrane was a federal electoral district in Ontario that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003. It was located in the northeast part of Ontario. This riding was created in 1996 from parts of Cochrane—Superior, Nipissing, Timiskaming—French River and Timmins—Chapleau ridings.\n\nTimiskaming—Cochrane consisted of the Territorial District of Timiskaming excluding a portion including and to the west of the townships of Douglas and Geikie; the southeast part of the Territorial District of Cochrane; the eastern part of the Territorial District of Sudbury; and the northwest part of the Territorial District of Nipissing.\n\nThe electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Nickel Belt, Nipissing—Timiskaming and Timmins—James Bay ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843467", "title": "Vaughan—King—Aurora", "text": "Vaughan—King—Aurora\n\nVaughan—King—Aurora was a federal electoral riding in Ontario, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004, and was a provincial electoral riding represented in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007.\n\nThe federal riding was created in 1996 as Vaughan—Aurora from parts of Markham, Oak Ridges, and York North ridings. It was subsequently renamed \"Vaughan—King—Aurora\".\n\nIt existed only for the 1997 and 2000 elections.\n\nIt was abolished in 2004, as ridings in York Region were redistributed due to its fast-growing population. The riding was redistributed into Newmarket—Aurora, Oak Ridges—Markham, and Vaughan ridings.\n\nThe provincial riding of Vaughan—King—Aurora was created before the 1999 election when Ontario provincial electoral districts were redefined to be the same as the federal districts. Municipalities in this riding were previously in parts of York Centre (Vaughan) and York—Mackenzie (Newmarket, Aurora, King) ridings.\n\nThe riding was last held by Greg Sorbara, representing the Ontario Liberal Party in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. Sorbara served as the Minister of Finance for the Cabinet of Ontario from 2003 to 2005, and from 2006 to 2007.\n\nIn 2007 the riding was abolished to match the boundaries of the federal ridings. The riding was redistributed into Newmarket—Aurora, Oak Ridges—Markham, and Vaughan ridings.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843468", "title": "Waterloo—Wellington", "text": "Waterloo—Wellington\n\nWaterloo—Wellington was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003. It continued to be a provincial electoral district represented in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario until the 2007 provincial election.\n\nWaterloo—Wellington was located in the province of Ontario.\n\nWaterloo—Wellington federal riding was created in 1996 from parts of Guelph—Wellington, Kitchener, Perth—Wellington—Waterloo, Waterloo and Wellington—Grey—Dufferin—Simcoe ridings. It was abolished in 2003, and divided between Cambridge, Kitchener—Conestoga, Perth—Wellington and Wellington—Halton Hills ridings.\n\nWaterloo—Wellington consisted of the southwest part of the City of Kitchener, the townships of Wilmot, Wellesley and Woolwich, the northwest part of the County of Wellington excluding the Village of Arthur, the Town of Mount Forest, and the Township of West Luther.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843469", "title": "Whitby—Ajax", "text": "Whitby—Ajax\n\nWhitby—Ajax was a federal and provincial electoral district in Ontario, Canada. It was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2003, and in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1999 to 2007. It was located to the east of Toronto, consisting of the Town of Whitby and the part of the Town of Ajax lying to the south of Kingston Road.\n\nThe federal riding was created in 1996, from parts of Durham and Ontario ridings, while the provincial riding was created in 1999 from Durham Centre, Durham East and Durham West.\n\nThe federal electoral district was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed between Ajax—Pickering and Whitby—Oshawa ridings. The provincial electoral district was abolished in 2007, when it was also redistributed into Ajax—Pickering and Whitby—Oshawa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843472", "title": "Software rendering", "text": "Software rendering\n\nSoftware rendering is the process of generating an image from a model by means of computer software. In the context of computer graphics rendering, software rendering refers to a rendering process that is not dependent upon graphics hardware ASICs, such as a graphics card. The rendering takes place entirely in the CPU. Rendering everything with the (general-purpose) CPU has the main advantage that it is not restricted to the (limited) capabilities of graphics hardware, but the disadvantage that more semiconductors are needed to obtain the same speed.\n\nRendering is used in architecture, simulators, video games, movies and television visual effects and design visualization. Rendering is the last step in an animation process, and gives the final appearance to the models and animation with visual effects such as shading, texture-mapping, shadows, reflections and motion blurs. Rendering can be split into two main categories: real-time rendering (also known as online rendering), and pre-rendering (also called offline rendering). Real-time rendering is used to interactively render a scene, like in 3D computer games, and generally each frame must be rendered in a few milliseconds. Offline rendering is used to create realistic images and movies, where each frame can take hours or days to complete, or for debugging of complex graphics code by programmers.\n\nFor real-time rendering the focus is on performance. The earliest texture mapped real-time software renderers for PCs used many tricks to create the illusion of 3D geometry (true 3D was limited to flat or Gouraud-shaded polygons employed mainly in flight simulators.) \"Ultima Underworld\", for example, allowed a limited form of looking up and down, slanted floors, and rooms over rooms, but resorted to sprites for all detailed objects. The technology used in these games is currently categorized as 2.5D.\n\nOne of the first games architecturally similar to modern 3D titles, allowing full 6DoF, was \"Descent\", which featured 3D models entirely made from bitmap textured triangular polygons. Voxel-based graphics also gained popularity for fast and relatively detailed terrain rendering, as in \"Delta Force\", but popular fixed-function hardware eventually made its use impossible. \"Quake\" features an efficient software renderer by Michael Abrash and John Carmack. With its popularity, \"Quake\" and other polygonal 3D games of that time helped the sales of graphics cards, and more games started using hardware APIs like DirectX and OpenGL. Though software rendering fell off as a primary rendering technology, many games well into the 2000s still had a software renderer as a fallback, \"Unreal\" and \"Unreal Tournament\" for instance, feature software renderers able to produce enjoyable quality and performance on CPUs of that period. One of the last AAA games without a hardware renderer was \"Outcast\", which featured advanced voxel technology but also texture filtering and bump mapping as found on graphics hardware.\n\nIn the video game console and arcade game markets, the evolution of 3D was more abrupt, as they had always relied heavily on single-purpose chipsets. 16 bit consoles gained RISC accelerator cartridges in games such as \"StarFox\" and \"Virtua Racing\" which implemented software rendering through tailored instruction sets. The Jaguar and 3DO were the first consoles to ship with 3D hardware, but it wasn't until the PlayStation that such features came to be used in most games.\n\nGames for children and casual gamers (who use outdated systems or systems primarily meant for office applications) during the late 1990s to early 2000s typically used a software renderer as a fallback. For example, \"\" has a choice of selecting either hardware or software rendering before playing the game, while others like \"Half-Life\" default to software mode and can be adjusted to use OpenGL or DirectX in the Options menu. Some 3D modeling software also feature software renderers for visualization. And finally the emulation and verification of hardware also requires a software renderer. An example of the latter is the Direct3D reference rasterizer.\n\nBut even for high-end graphics, the 'art' of software rendering hasn't completely died out. While early graphics cards were much faster than software renderers and originally had better quality and more features, it restricted the developer to 'fixed-function' pixel processing. Quickly there came a need for diversification of the looks of games. Software rendering has no restrictions because an arbitrary program is executed. So graphics cards reintroduced this programmability, by executing small programs per vertex and per pixel/fragment, also known as shaders. Shader languages, such as High Level Shader Language (HLSL) for DirectX or the OpenGL Shading Language (GLSL), are C-like programming languages for shaders and start to show some resemblance with (arbitrary function) software rendering.\n\nSince the adoption of graphics hardware as the primary means for real-time rendering, CPU performance has grown steadily as ever. This allowed for new software rendering technologies to emerge. Although largely overshadowed by the performance of hardware rendering, some modern real-time software renderers manage to combine a broad feature set and reasonable performance (for a software renderer), by making use of specialized dynamic compilation and advanced instruction set extensions like SSE. Although nowadays the dominance of hardware rendering over software rendering is undisputed because of unparalleled performance, features, and continuing innovation, some believe that CPUs and GPUs will converge one way or another and the line between software and hardware rendering will fade.\n\nFor various reasons such as hardware failure, broken drivers, emulation, quality assurance, software programming, hardware design, and hardware limitations, it is sometimes useful to let the CPU assume some or all functions in a graphics pipeline.\n\nAs a result, there are a number of general-purpose software packages capable of replacing or augmenting an existing hardware graphical accelerator, including:\n\nContrary to real-time rendering, performance is only of second priority with pre-rendering. It is used mainly in the film industry to create high-quality renderings of lifelike scenes. Many special effects in today's movies are entirely or partially created by computer graphics. For example, the character of Gollum in the Peter Jackson \"The Lord of the Rings\" films is completely computer-generated imagery (CGI). Also for animation movies, CGI is gaining popularity. Most notably Pixar has produced a series of movies such as \"Toy Story\" and \"Finding Nemo\", and the Blender Foundation the world's first open movie \"Elephants Dream\".\n\nBecause of the need for very high-quality and diversity of effects, offline rendering requires a lot of flexibility. Even though commercial real-time graphics hardware is getting higher quality and more programmable by the day, most photorealistic CGI still requires software rendering. Pixar's RenderMan, for example, allows shaders of unlimited length and complexity, demanding a general-purpose processor. Techniques for high realism like raytracing and global illumination are also inherently unsuited for hardware implementation and in most cases are realized purely in software.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843473", "title": "Winnipeg North—St. Paul", "text": "Winnipeg North—St. Paul\n\nWinnipeg North—St. Paul (also known as Winnipeg—St. Paul) was a federal electoral district in Manitoba, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004.\n\nThis riding was created in 1996 as \"Winnipeg—St. Paul\" from parts of Selkirk—Red River, Winnipeg North and Winnipeg Transcona ridings.\n\nIt was renamed \"Winnipeg North—St. Paul\" in 1997.\n\nIt was abolished in 2003 when it was redistributed into Kildonan—St. Paul and Winnipeg North ridings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843478", "title": "Lakeland (electoral district)", "text": "Lakeland (electoral district)\n\nLakeland is a federal electoral district in Alberta, Canada, that was represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2004, and again since 2015. Its name is derived from the area's topography (and the former Lakeland County). The district's largest communities are Bonnyville, St. Paul, and the Alberta part of Lloydminster.\n\nThe district was created in 1996 from the Beaver River and Vegreville ridings. It was abolished in 2003, with parts transferred to Vegreville—Wainwright and Westlock—St. Paul. A small part was transferred to Athabasca.\n\nThe riding was re-created in 2013 from these same districts (Athabasca having been renamed to Fort McMurray—Athabasca) with a new set of boundaries, no longer including the northerly communities of Lac La Biche and Cold Lake, but extending further west to the towns of Athabasca and Waskatenau. It is largely a successor to Vegreville—Wainwright.\n\nIts 2016 population was 108,451, a 3.7% increase from 2011.\n\nThis riding has elected the following members of the House of Commons of Canada:\n\nIn addition, Senator Martha Bielish designated \"Lakeland\" as her Senate division, representing the area as a Progressive Conservative from 1979 to 1990. She was Alberta's first female Senator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843479", "title": "Adoration of the Magi (Leonardo)", "text": "Adoration of the Magi (Leonardo)\n\nThe Adoration of the Magi is an early painting by Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo was given the commission by the Augustinian monks of in Florence in 1481, but he departed for Milan the following year, leaving the painting unfinished. It has been in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence since 1670.\n\nThe Virgin Mary and Child are depicted in the foreground and form a triangular shape with the Magi kneeling in adoration. Behind them is a semicircle of accompanying figures, including what may be a self-portrait of the young Leonardo (on the far right). In the background on the left is the ruin of a pagan building, on which workmen can be seen, apparently repairing it. On the right are men on horseback fighting and a sketch of a rocky landscape.\n\nThe ruins are a possible reference to the Basilica of Maxentius, which, according to Medieval legend, the Romans claimed would stand until a virgin gave birth. It is supposed to have collapsed on the night of Christ's birth (in fact it was not even built until a later date). The ruins dominate a preparatory perspective drawing by Leonardo, which also includes the fighting horsemen. The palm tree in the center has associations with the Virgin Mary, partly due to the phrase \"You are stately as a palm tree\" from the Song of Solomon, which is believed to prefigure her. Another aspect of the palm tree can be the usage of the palm tree as a symbol of victory for ancient Rome, whereas in Christianity it is a representation of martyrdom—triumph over death—so in conclusion we can say that the palm in general represents triumph. The other tree in the painting is from the carob family, the seeds from the tree are used as a unit of measurement. They measure valuable stones and jewels. This tree and its seeds are associated with crowns, suggesting Christ as the king of kings or the Virgin as the future queen of heaven, as well as that this is nature's gift to the new born Christ. As with Michelangelo's \"Doni Tondo,\" the background is probably supposed to represent the Pagan world supplanted by the Christian world, as inaugurated by the events in the foreground. The artist uses bright colors to illuminate the figures in the foreground of the painting. Jesus and the Virgin Mary are, in fact, painted yellow, the color of light. The trees are painted blue, an unusual color for trees of any kind. On the right side the most credible self-portrait of Leonardo da Vinci as a 30-year-old can be seen, according to several critics. (See Angelo Paratico )\n\nMuch of the composition of this painting was influenced by an earlier work of the Northern artist Rogier van der Weyden. The relationship between figures, space and the viewer's standpoint, the high horizon, slightly raised viewpoint, space receding into the far distance, and a central figural group poised before a rock formation in the middle of the landscape are all copied from van der Weyden's \"Entombment of Christ\" (1460, Uffizi Gallery, Italy).\n\nOwing to the painting's unfinished status in 1481, the commission was handed over to Filippino Lippi, who painted another \"Adoration of the Magi\", completed in 1496, in substitution of the one commissioned to Leonardo. It is housed in the Uffizi in Florence.\n\nDomenico Ghirlandaio completed a separate painting, expanding upon Leonardo's theme, in 1488.\n\nIn 2002, Dr. Maurizio Seracini, an art diagnostician alumnus of the University of California, San Diego and a native Florentine, was commissioned by the Uffizi to undertake a study of the paint surface to determine whether the painting could be restored without damaging it. Seracini, who heads Editech, a Florence-based company he founded in 1977 focused on the \"diagnostics of cultural heritage\", used high-resolution digital scans as well as thermographic, ultrasound, ultraviolet and infrared diagnostic techniques to study the painting in ultra-fine detail. He concluded that the painting could not be restored without damaging it and that Leonardo only did the underdrawing. Another artist (or artists) was responsible for all of the existing paintwork on top of the underdrawing. Seracini stated that \"none of the paint we see on the \"Adoration\" today was put there by Leonardo.\" As a part of his diagnostic survey on the \"Adoration of the Magi\", Seracini completed more than 2,400 detailed infrared photographic records of the painting's elaborate underdrawing, and scientific analyses. The new images revealed by the diagnostic techniques used by Seracini were initially made public in 2002 in an interview with \"New York Times\" reporter Melinda Henneberger. In 2005, nearing the end of his investigation, Seracini gave another interview, this time to \"Guardian\" reporter John Hooper. Seracini finally published his results in 2006: M. Seracini, \"Diagnostic Investigations on the \"Adoration of the Magi\" by Leonardo da Vinci\" in \"The Mind of Leonardo – The Universal Genius at Work\", exhibit catalogue edited by P. Gauluzzi, Giunti Florence, 2006, pp. 94–101.\n\nIn the Smithsonian Channel TV program, \"Da Vinci Detective,\" Seracini conjectures that, upon seeing the preliminary drawings for the altarpiece they had commissioned, they rejected it due to the sensational scenario presented to them. Fully expecting a traditional interpretation including the three wise men, they were instead confronted with a maelstrom of unrelated, half-emaciated figures surrounding the Christ-Child, as well as a full-blown battle scene in the rear of the picture. They chose instead to relegate it to a storage house, rather than to destroy the original work. It was only much later, and probably in the context of the subsequent rise in value of Leonardo artworks, that it was resurrected and painted over by unknown persons to make it more \"sale-able.\" This later re-working of the panel resulted in alterations to Leonardo's original design for the piece.\n\nThe Uffizi Gallery has recently completed a six-year restoration of the work. It has been fully cleaned with years of dirt and old varnish removed. The result is a work that is incredibly bright, with Da Vinci's charcoal outline and marks clearly visible. The wood panels have also been restored, ensuring the stability of the work for generations to come.\n\nNational Geographic's coverage of the painting, after the restoration, offers this commentary:\"Leonardo’s “Adoration of the Magi” divulges brushstrokes, colors, and images long hidden under dirt and darkened varnish. The unfinished painting, commissioned in 1481, also shows evidence of the artist’s thought process, including modifications he made as he worked\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843480", "title": "Western Hockey League (1952–1974)", "text": "Western Hockey League (1952–1974)\n\nThe Western Hockey League (WHL) was a minor pro ice hockey league that operated from 1952 to 1974. Managed for most of its history by Al Leader, it was originally founded in 1948 as the Pacific Coast Hockey League (PCHL), before absorbing three teams from the Western Canada Senior Hockey League in 1951, and adopting the WHL name in 1952. During the 1960s, the WHL moved into a number of large west coast markets including Los Angeles and San Francisco. There was speculation that the WHL could grow into a major league capable of rivalling even the long-entrenched National Hockey League.\n\nIn the 1965–66 and 1967–68 seasons, the WHL played an interlocking schedule with the American Hockey League. Fears that the WHL (or a WHL/AHL merger) could become a rival major league was among the factors that finally convinced the National Hockey League to expand for the 1967–68 season.\n\nSeveral factors led to the WHL's decision to cease operations after the 1973–74 season. The NHL and World Hockey Association had moved into many of its traditional markets, and the talent pool had become strained by the fast growth in the number of professional teams. When the NHL announced in June 1974 that the owners of both the Denver Spurs and Seattle Totems had been granted \"conditional\" NHL franchises (neither of which came to fruition), the WHL announced the same day that it was folding. A few of its surviving teams were absorbed into the Central Hockey League (CHL), though the Phoenix Roadrunners franchise did join the WHA for the 1974–75 season, and the Denver Spurs would jump from the CHL to the WHA for the 1975–76 season (but folded mid-season).\n\nThe championship trophy of the WHL was the Lester Patrick Cup, which is currently on display at the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\n\nChampionships by Team\n"}
{"id": "1843481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843481", "title": "Finland at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Finland at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nFinland competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\n\n\n\nThe Finnish archery squad in Sydney consisted of two men and one woman. None of the archers won a match.\n\nMen's 100 m\n\nMen's 200 m\n\nMen's Shot Put\n\nMen's Javelin Throw\n\nMen's Hammer Throw\n\nMen's High Jump\n\nMen's 50 km Walk\n\nMen's Decathlon\n\nWomen's 100 m\n\nWomen's 200 m\n\nWomen's 100 m Hurdles\n\nWomen's 4 × 100 m\n\nWomen's Javelin Throw\n\nWomen's Hammer Throw\n\nWomen's Heptathlon\n\nMen's Singles\n\nWomen's Singles\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's Kayak Singles 500 m\n\nWomen's Road Race\n\nWomen's Sprint\n\nWomen's 500 m Time Trial\n\nMen's 3 Metre Springboard\n\nMen's 3 Metre Springboard\n\nEight men and two woman competed for Finland in the Sailing competition. They won one gold medal.\n\nMen's Double Handed Dinghy (470)\n\nMen's Laser\n\nMen's Three Handed Keelboat (Soling)\n\nWomen's Mistral\n\nWomen's Single Handed Dinghy (Europe)\n\nMixed High Performance Two Handed Dinghy (49er)\n\nMen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 200 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200 m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200 m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 400 m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Medley\n\nWomen's 50 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nWomen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nWomen\n\n"}
{"id": "1843483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843483", "title": "Falcarius", "text": "Falcarius\n\nFalcarius is a genus of therizinosaurian dinosaur found in the Cretaceous of east-central Utah, United States. Its name is derived from the word \"sickle\", \"falcarius\" in Latin being a sickle cutter, which scientists have used to describe its large clawed hands.\n\n\"Falcarius\" was a , bipedal herbivore. It had a small head and a long neck and tail.\n\nThe description of \"Falcarius\" (2005), following that of therizinosauroid \"Beipiaosaurus\" from the Early Cretaceous of China in 1999, clarifies the early evolution of the Therizinosauria and their relationship with the larger group of theropod dinosaurs, because \"Falcarius\" is a transitional form between older theropods and the much changed Therizinosauridae.\n\nThe remains of \"Falcarius\" were first discovered in 1999 by commercial fossil collector Lawrence Walker at the Crystal Geyser Quarry site in Grand County. He informed paleontologist James Kirkland of the find, who with a team of the Utah Geological Survey from 2001 onwards began to uncover the bones that proved to be present in a two-acre (8,000-square-meter) area of Utah's Cedar Mountain Formation (Yellow Cat member). \"Falcarius\" thus lived approximately 126 million years ago, in the Barremian stage of the early Cretaceous Period. Two extensive bone beds were discovered, including the remains of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of individuals of the new species. The minimum number of individual animals was in 2006 estimated at three hundred. In 2005 over two thousand specimens had been excavated, mostly consisting of disarticulated bones. These included the remains of juvenile animals. In 2008 a second site was reported, the Suarez Quarry, with mainly adult individuals, but of a perhaps slightly different type. In 2010 the number of specimens from the original quarry had increased to over 2,700, and was later that year reported to have risen to over three thousand.\n\nWhile a first scientific report of \"Falcarius\" was published in 2004, and a braincase and the anterior appendicular skeleton were partly described the same year, it was not formally named until a subsequent paper was published in the May 2005 issue of the journal \"Nature\". Co-authors of the study, apart from Kirkland himself, include Scott Sampson, chief curator at the University of Utah's Utah Museum of Natural History, and Lindsay Zanno, then a doctoral student at the University. Dr. Sampson is quoted as saying that this species \"\"…is the missing link between predatory dinosaurs and the bizarre plant-eating therizinosaurs\"\". Lindsay Zanno subsequently and informally described Falcarius as \"The ultimate in bizarre: a cross between an ostrich, a gorilla, and Edward Scissorhands.\"\n\nThe type species is \"Falcarius utahensis\". The generic name is Latin for \"sickle cutter\", in reference to the large hand claws. The specific name reflects the provenance from Utah.\n\nThe holotype specimen, UMNH VP 15000, consists of a partial braincase. A large number of paratypes were assigned: specimens UMNH VP 12283, 12285, 12286, 12288, 12290, 12292, 12293, 12315, 12321-12329, 12343-12345, 12347-12349, 12360, 12363, 12366, 12369-12373, 12377, 12380, 12383-12384, 12386-12389, 12392-12394, 12396-12400, 12402-12404, 12406, 12410-12417, 12419-12425, 12427-12439, 12441-12443, 14530-14533, 14537-14538, 14542-14557, 14560-14565, 14568-14582, 14584-14656, 14658-14666, 14668-14670, 14672-14676, 14678-14680, 14682-14690, 14692-14699, 14701-14999 and 15001-15149. Apart from this extensive hypodigm, dozens of other bones were referred to the species.\n\nA skeletal mount of \"Falcarius utahensis\", consisting of cast reconstructed elements and made by \"Gaston Design\", went on display at the Utah Museum of Natural History on 29 June 2005.\n\nThe species has since been described in detail by Zanno in a series of studies, beginning with her thesis in 2006.\n\nFrom examining fossilized bones from several individual animals, scientists have shown that \"Falcarius utahensis\" averaged in length and was just over tall. Gregory S. Paul in 2010 estimated the weight at a hundred kilograms. The smallest juvenile individuals found had a length of about half a meter.\n\nZanno in 2010 established some autapomorphies, unique derived traits of \"Falcarius\". On the underside of the braincase there is a well-developed depression, the \"recessus basisphenoidalis\". At the back of the head there are deep depressions below the occipital condyle and on the subotics, each with several pneumatic grooves. On the thumb claw the raised attachment point for the tendon of the extensor muscle is bordered by deep grooves for ligaments. The large skull opening in the snout, the \"fenestra antorbitalis\", is positioned in a depression which reaches the side of the nasal bone. There are at least five pairs of conical teeth in the front of the lower jaws. These teeth are hollowed-out at the inside. On the underside of the vertebrae of the neck there is a depression with at the mid-line a ridge. The vertebrae of the back have below their front extensions, the prezygapophyses, a groove which is divided in three smaller depressions. The middle vertebrae of the back have a second ridge extending from the base of the upper rib joint, the diapophysis, to the back of the vertebra. In the arm, the shaft of the humerus is reinforced by powerful, somewhat obliquely placed, thickenings extending towards the condyles of the lower joint, which swellings have a hollow front edge. The front edge of the hip joint has a well-developed swelling, pointing sideways to the back, on the pubis.\n\nThe head of \"Falcarius\" is still very incompletely known. It was small and elongated. With its long neck, \"Falcarius\" could apparently reach about off the ground to munch leaves or fruit. The teeth numbered at least sixteen in the maxilla of the upper jaw. The lower jaw carried twenty-eight teeth. Its small leaf-shaped and very finely serrated maxillary teeth indicate that it consumed plant material. The front-most five teeth of the lower jaw are much longer, straighter and more pointed though, and might indicate a partially omnivorous diet including meat, e.g. small animals such as lizards. In the back of the head, the braincase was relatively large. Its lower elements were moderately inflated by pneumatised, hollowed-out, bone tissue.\nThe partitioning of the vertebral column is still unknown. The neck was very long with elongated cervical vertebrae. The tail was relatively long. The arm was moderately long with a somewhat robust humerus. The relatively large, and slightly recurved, pointed ten- to thirteen-centimeter (four- to five-inch) hand claws were likely used in self-defence.\n\n\"Falcarius\" is known from many specimens, including complete forelimb specimens. In 2006 Zanno published a paper in the \"Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology\" focusing on the forelimb anatomy of \"Falcarius\". Because of its primitive position and relative completeness, \"Falcarius\" is a good taxon to use to compare to related groups and descendant taxa. Most of the bones of the pectoral girdle and forelimb are known, although sternal bones are not preserved. Both a left and right scapula are preserved, and they are both mostly complete as well. The blades of the scapulae are about long, and also quite slender, with barely any expansion. They are curved instead of straight. The scapula is placed in a relatively high position. Two coracoids are also preserved, although they differ more than the scapulae in morphology. The right coracoid is the better preserved of the two. The coracoid is not specially enlarged. The furcula is elongated and narrow, its branches placed at an angle of 104°. It is v-shaped and possesses a small hypocleidium at the front. The arm as a whole is not especially developed in length but shows signs of an increasing robustness. The humerus has a rather short triangular deltopectoral crest. The epicondyles are exceptionally thick, indicating a strong musculature. The ulna is lightly curved. The hand is rather long but not very robust, with in general an elongated metacarpus, although the first metacarpal is short. The first finger diverges from the second finger, the longest of the hand. The third finger is very thin. The hand claws are moderately curved, rather pointed, and moderately long.\n\nIn the pelvis the ilium was by a moderate inclination partly adapted to a more raised position of the trunk. The pelvis was propubic or mesopubic: the pubic bone pointed more or less forwards. The leg was relatively long and adapted to running, with the lower leg longer than the thighbone. In the foot there were three weight-bearing toes. The first toe did not reach the ground nor did the first metatarsal touch the ankle.\n\nThe describers in 2005 assigned \"Falcarius\" to the Therizinosauroidea \"sensu\" Zhang, in a basal position. Zanno later placed it as the basal-most taxon in the Therizinosauria, just outside a Therizinosauroidea \"sensu\" Sereno.\n\n\"Falcarius\" resembles dinosaurs belonging to the Therizinosauridae, part of the group Maniraptora. \"Falcarius\" itself probably does not belong to this former group, although it does belong to the more inclusive group Therizinosauria. The group is characterized by wider hips, a comparatively large braincase and long necks typical of plant eaters. The less basal Asian specimens were covered in quill-like feathers; this is assumed for \"Falcarius\" as well. In general \"Falcarius\" can be seen as a transitional form between the original theropod build and the more derived Therizinosauridae. \"Falcarius\" shared some derived traits with the therizinosaurids: it had a long neck, small head with teeth adapted for eating plant material, a more robust arm with large hand-claws and a more vertical position of the body. On the other hand, it resembled more typical theropods in having a long tail, a propubic pelvis, a long lower leg and a foot without a fourth toe reaching the ground.\n\nThe cladogram below shows Zanno's phylogenetic analysis of Therizinosauria in 2010, with \"Falcarius\" as the first taxon to split off.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843486", "title": "Bhutan at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Bhutan at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nBhutan sent a delegation to compete at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia from 15 September to 1 October 2000. This was the Kingdom's fifth appearance at a Summer Olympic Games. The delegation to Sydney consisted of two archers, Jubzhang Jubzhang and Tshering Chhoden.\n\nThe Bhutan Olympic Committee was recognized by the International Olympic Committee on 31 December 1982. The Kingdom first participated in the Summer Olympic Games at the 1984 Summer Olympics, and have taken part in every Summer Olympics since then, making Sydney their fifth appearance in a Summer Olympiad. They have never participated in a Winter Olympic Games. The 2000 Summer Olympics were held from 15 September to 1 October 2000; 10,651 athletes represented 199 National Olympic Committees. The Bhutanese delegation to Sydney consisted of two archers, Jubzhang Jubzhang and Tshering Chhodenn. Jubzhang was chosen as the flag bearer for the opening ceremony.\n\nJubzhang was 29 years old at the time of the Sydney Olympics, and had previously represented Bhutan — at the 1996 and the 1992 Olympics. In the ranking round of the men's individual competition held on 16 September, he scored 596 points and earned himself the 55th seed. In the first round of the knockout phase, he lost 162–156 to Nico Hendrickx of Belgium.\n\nChhoden was 21 years old at the time and was making her Olympic debut. In the ranking round of the women's individual, also held on 16 September, she scored 614 points and slotted herself into the 50th seed. In the first knockout round, she lost, 165–153, to Hamdiah Damanhuri of Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "1843489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843489", "title": "Marymount Manhattan College", "text": "Marymount Manhattan College\n\nMarymount Manhattan College is a private liberal arts college in New York City on the Upper East Side. Enrollment consists of 2,069 undergraduates, with women making up 75% and men 25%.\n\nMarymount Manhattan College was founded in 1936 by the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary as a two-year women's college and a New York City extension of Marymount College, Tarrytown in Tarrytown, New York. In 1948, the College moved to its present location on East 71st Street and became a four-year bachelor degree-granting college; the first class graduated from MMC in 1950. In 1961, MMC was granted an absolute charter as an independent four-year college by the Regents of the University of the State of New York.\n\nSince 1961, Marymount Manhattan has been an independent, private college open to all creeds, while noting its foundation by the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary. While the college no longer described itself as Catholic, the Catholic Church continued to list it in the Catholic Directory until 2005. Unaware that the college did not claim to be a Catholic school, the Cardinal Newman Society protested the college's announcement of its decision to invite then-Senator Hillary Clinton to deliver a commencement address and to confer an honorary doctoral degree upon her, due to Senator Clinton's longtime public support for abortion rights. In response to the protests and without objection by the college, it was de-listed from \"The Official Catholic Directory,\" which identifies Catholic institutions.\n\nIn 1976, Finch College, a women's college best known as a \"finishing school\" for affluent young women, closed and passed its records over to the school. The school was most famous for educating Tricia Nixon Cox, daughter of former US President Richard Nixon.\n\nIn 2001, the College opened the 55th Street Residence Hall, one of the tallest dorms in the United States, with 32 floors of student housing in a 46-story building. In 2015, Marymount Manhattan opened a second residence hall for upperclassmen located in Cooper Square, a 12 story building to house 270 students\n\nIn 2017, just under 2,000 students were enrolled representing 48 U.S. states and 36 countries. In conjunction with its core liberal arts curriculum, Marymount Manhattan offers 30 major programs of study and over 40 minors along with pre-professional programs. It is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. The college offers a degree program for incarcerated women at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility, granting an Associates of Arts degree in Social Science and Bachelor of Arts degree in Sociology.\n\nIn 2013, the school was featured in the noted industry publication \"Backstage\" as one of the top colleges in which Broadway and Tony Award-nominated actors have trained, alongside Carnegie Mellon University, Oberlin Conservatory, University of Michigan, Ithaca College, NYU's Tisch School of the Arts, and the University of North Carolina School of the Arts.\n\nIn July 2015 Kerry Walk was unanimously selected by the Trustees of Marymount Manhattan College as the school's 8th president.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843492", "title": "Calgary Stampeders (ice hockey)", "text": "Calgary Stampeders (ice hockey)\n\nThe Calgary Stampeders are a defunct ice hockey team that was based in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. The team existed from 1938 until 1972, playing in various senior amateur and minor professional leagues during that time. In 1946, the Stampeders captured the Allan Cup as Canadian senior hockey champions, the first Alberta based club to do so.\n\nA team of this same name also played the 1978–79 season in the Western International Hockey League.\n\nThe 1945–46 Stampeders were a powerhouse in the Western Canada Senior Hockey League (WCSHL). Led by Ken \"Red\" Hunter's then senior-amateur record 81 points, the Stamps finished first overall in the WCSHL with a 28–7–1 record, earning a bye into the league championship where they quickly dispatched the Edmonton Flyers four games to one. The Stamps then faced the Winnipeg Orioles for the Prairie championship. While Winnipeg's coach predicted his team would sweep Calgary in three games, it was instead the Stampeders who eliminated Winnipeg in three by scores of 5–1, 10–2 and 8–2. In the Western Canada final, the Stampeders once again easily handled their opponents, this time, the Trail Smoke Eaters. After tying the first two games, Calgary won the next two by 7–3 and 4–2 scores to reach the Allan Cup final against the Hamilton Tigers.\n\nThe series almost never happened. With the tournament scheduled to be held out west, the Hamilton players considered forgoing the Allan Cup final as the $6 per day they were offered for the trip was not enough to be able to take time off from their jobs. The Tigers did make the trip, however, and were easily dispatched by the Stampeders in five games, winning the fifth game by a 1–0 score in Edmonton before a crowd of 6,000.\n\nIn 1946-47, the Stampeders once again reached the Allan Cup final. They were defeated, however, by the Montreal Royals. The deciding game was held in Quebec City in front of over 11,000 spectators.\n\nAs occurred frequently with senior hockey, growing concerns were surfacing regarding the status of players, as many teams were using former professionals in violation of the rules laid out by the Allan Cup committee. Many teams, including the Stampeders, were facing pressure to declare whether they were professional or amateur teams.\n\nBefore the start of the 1951–52 season, the Stampeders, along with their provincial cousins, the Edmonton Flyers, officially turned professional, joining the Pacific Coast Hockey League, which was renamed the Western Hockey League (WHL) by the 1952–53 season. The WHL was the top professional league in Western Canada and the United States. The Stampeders became the minor-league affiliate of the Chicago Black Hawks.\n\nThe Stampeders quickly found success in the minor-pro ranks, winning the WHL title in 1953–54, defeating the Vancouver Canucks four games to one. The Stampeders then went on to face the Quebec Aces of the Quebec Hockey League in the Edinburgh Trophy for the championship of Canadian minor professional hockey. Calgary won the best-of-nine series in six games, with the clinching game held in Calgary, a 4–2 victory in front of 6,500 fans.\n\nThe Stampeders would reach the WHL final three more times: in 1955, falling to the Flyers in a four-game sweep; in 1958, when they fell to the Canucks; and in 1959, falling to the Victoria Cougars. During this time, The Stampeders were one of the top draws in the league. Including all playoff games, the 1953–54 Stampeders drew over 300,000 fans in a city of 150,000. In 1955–56, Calgary drew 157,803 fans in the regular season, second only to the Winnipeg Warriors.\n\nIn 1963, disenchanted with their affiliation with the Chicago Black Hawks, the Stampeders took a one-year leave of absence. Gordon Love, chairman of the Calgary Stampede Board, owners of the Stampeders, stated: \"\"We have been treated so shabbily by Chicago, that we have no alternative... Tommy Ivan simply wasn't interested in the future of hockey in Calgary, and that's all there is to it.\"\" The Stampeders had also lost $90,000 during the season. Isolated in what was now a mostly Pacific coast league, Edmonton suspended operations along with Calgary. Neither team would ever resume operations, as the Flyers decided they could not be financially stable in the old Edmonton Gardens, and Calgary could not go it alone without an Edmonton team.\n\nThe Calgary Stampeders name was revived for teams playing amateur senior hockey in later years: three seasons in the Alberta Senior Hockey League, one season in the Prairie Hockey League, and one season in the Western International Hockey League.\n\nThe Stampeders played in the following leagues:\n\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against\"\n\nPartially as a result of their affiliation with the Black Hawks, 84 former Stampeders would also play in the National Hockey League.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843502", "title": "Mexico at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mexico at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nMexico competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\nIn its sixth Olympic archery competition, Mexico entered two competitors. Both lost in the first round.\n\nMen's 400 m\n\n\nMen's 5,000 m\n\n\nMen's 10,000 m\n\n\nMen's 3,000 m Steeplechase\n\nMen's Pole Vault\n\nMen's 20 km Walk\n\n\n\nMen's 50 km Walk\n\n\n\nMen's Marathon\n\n\nWomen's 400 m\n\nWomen's 5,000 m\n\n\nWomen's 10,000 m\n\nWomen's 20 km Walk\n\n\n\nWomen's Marathon\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (48 kg)\n\nMen's Flyweight (51 kg)\n\nMen's Bantamweight (54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (57 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (60 kg)\n\nMen's Light Middleweight (71 kg)\n\nMen's Canoe Doubles 500 m\n\nMen's Canoe Doubles 1,000 m\n\nMen's Cross Country Mountain Bike\n\nWomen's Point Race\n\nFor the first time in 12 years, Mexico won a diving medal when Fernando Platas bested his eighth-place finish in Atlanta with a silver medal.\n\nMen's 3 Metre Springboard\n\nMen's 3 Metre Springboard\n\nMen's 10 Metre Platform\n\nMen's 10 Metre Platform\n\nMen's Synchronized 3 Metre Springboard\n\nWomen's 3 Metre Springboard\n\nWomen's 3 Metre Springboard\n\nWomen's 10 Metre Platform\n\nWomen's 10 Metre Platform\n\nWomen's Synchronized 3 Metre Springboard\n\nWomen's Synchronized 10 Metre Platform\n\nMen's \n\nThree men and one woman competed for Mexico in three events at the Sailing venue in the 2000 Sydney Olympics.\n\nMen's Mistral\n\nMen's Double Handed Dinghy (470)\n\nWomen's Single Handed Dinghy (Europe)\n\nMen's 200 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 400 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 1500 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 200 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200 m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 400 m Individual Medley\n\nWomen's 400 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 800 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 200 m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's Duet\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843507", "title": "Slovenia at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Slovenia at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nSlovenia competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. Slovenia won their first two summer Olympic gold medals at these games.\n\nIn Slovenia's third archery competition, the nation entered only one man, who improved his rank from four years before by one place despite losing his first match again.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843515", "title": "El Salvador at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "El Salvador at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nEl Salvador competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia, from 15 September to 1 October 2000. This was the nation's seventh appearance at the Olympics.\n\nComité Olímpico de El Salvador sent a total of 8 athletes to the Games, 4 men and 4 women, to compete in 7 sports. Weightlifter Eva Dimas was chosen to carry her nation's flag during the opening ceremony.\n\nComité Olímpico de El Salvador selected a team of 8 athletes, 4 men and 4 women, to compete in 7 sports. Cyclist Maureen Kaila, at age 35, was the oldest athlete of the team, while pistol shooter Luisa Maida was the youngest at age 20.\n\nThe following is the list of number of competitors participating in the Games.\n\nIn El Salvadors's debut archery competition, the nation entered only one man. He lost his first match.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843524", "title": "Greenwood Yard", "text": "Greenwood Yard\n\nThe Greenwood Yard (also known as the Greenwood Complex) is a rail yard with support buildings that service subway vehicles on Line 2 Bloor–Danforth of the Toronto subway system.\n\nGreenwood is one of two subway yards on Line 2, the other being the much smaller Keele Subway Yard.\n\nSpanning , the Greenwood Yard is located at 400 Greenwood Avenue, on the west side of Greenwood south of Danforth Avenue. The site is bordered on the west, south and east sides by residential areas, and on the south side by a railway line.\n\nThe yard contains 5 buildings, two of which are the General Overhaul and Repair Shop (a.k.a. Greenwood Shop) with a floor space of , and the carhouse for inspection, minor repairs and washing. The Greenwood Shop has specialized shops for heavy overhauls of subway cars and components as well as stores. The Greenwood Shop is operationally separate from the carhouse servicing the Bloor–Danforth subway fleet.\n\nWhen it opened, the yard had a storage capacity for 244 subway cars. The yard currently has a 328 car storage capacity.\n\nThe Greenwood Yard is connected to the Bloor–Danforth line by a multi-level wye between Donlands and Greenwood stations; the wye allows both east and westbound mainline trains access to the yard. The arrangement allows for trains to be added into or taken out of service with minimum disruption to ongoing operations.\n\nGreenwood Yard is home to approximately half the Commission's fleet of trains and work cars. The yard regularly houses the majority of the fleet of T1 subway cars and all Line 2 trains overnight.\n\nGreenwood Yard provides storage, inspection and running maintenance for the Line 2 revenue fleet, and contains major overhaul and repair shops for the entire subway fleet. Greenwood Yard is also a centre for the servicing and operation of workcars used by the Track and Structure Department to repair and maintain the entire subway system.\n\nThe Greenwood Yard also performs the heavy maintenance on the ICTS cars from Line 3 Scarborough, that the McCowan Yard cannot handle. Because the gauge and technology differences between lines 2 and 3, ICTS cars must be transported by truck to Greenwood for major maintenance work.\n\nGreenwood Yard, like other active TTC yards, operates 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. Yard activity is minimal during the peak service periods when many trains are in revenue service. The yard is particularly busy in the evening and early morning hours to service and maintain the subway fleet after which the trains are put into position to go into service in the morning.\n\nPrior to construction, most of the yard site used to be a clay quarry that later became Harper's Dump, Toronto's main landfill in the 1930s. The site also contained some residences which were demolished.\n\nIn May 1965, the Greenwood Yard was put into partial service for some repair work. Heavy maintenance of subway bogies was transferred from the Hillcrest Complex to Greenwood.\n\nOn February 26, 1966, the yard went into full service with the opening of Line 2 Bloor–Danforth.\n\nWhen it opened, the yard had a railway siding and some four rail, dual gauge ( and ) track for the delivery of subway cars from the manufacturer. However, circa 2013, the TTC removed the standard gauge track to make more room for subway car storage. As of 2016, the standard gauge siding had been severed from both the yard and the railway mainline.\n\nPlans for the current yard to be used for Downtown Relief Line with T1 cars moved to new Kipling Yard.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843525", "title": "Egypt at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Egypt at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nEgypt competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. 89 competitors, 74 men and 15 women, took part in 64 events in 20 sports.\n\nIn Egypt's debut archery competition, the nation entered only one man. He lost his first match.\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nMen's marathon\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Light Welterweight (– 63.5 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's Heavyweight (– 91 kg)\n\nMen's Super Heavyweight (+ 91 kg)\n\nMen's Individual Time Trial\n\nMen's Road Race\n\nFive fencers, three men and two women, represented Egypt in 2000.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMen's 50m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Freestyle\n\nMen's 200m Freestyle\n\nMen's 400m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Butterfly\n\nMen's 100m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200m Individual Medley\n\nWomen's 50m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 200m Freestyle\n\nWomen's Duet\n\n\nMen\nWomen\n"}
{"id": "1843529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843529", "title": "Portugal at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Portugal at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nPortugal competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\nA delegation of 61 competitors participated in 13 sports, winning two Olympic bronze medals in the judo and athletics. Fernanda Ribeiro, the 10000m champion from Atlanta'96 and in her fourth consecutive Olympics, couldn't keep her title away from the previous holder Derartu Tulu but still managed to reach the podium. The first Portuguese medal in the judo was achieved by Nuno Delgado in the –81 kg category.\n\nA much smaller delegation competed at these antipodean Games explaining the reduction in the athletics and swimming teams. Nevertheless, Portuguese archery and tennis had their third consecutive Olympic presence. But, as with badminton, these competitors were all eliminated in the first round (the tennis male team was beaten again by a bahamese team). Sailing provided good results with some finalists (5–8th) in distinct classes. Beach volleyball was again represented by the same Atlanta'96 fourth-placed male team. It was an almost a remake, as they faced some of the same adversaries, were beaten by an American team in the semi-finals and lost the chance to grab the bronze medal.\n\nMen's Individual Competition:\n\n800m:\n\n1500m:\n\n5000m:\n\n10000m:\n\nMarathon:\n\n20 km Walk:\n\n50 km Walk:\n\n400m Hurdles:\n\n3000m Steeplechase:\n\nDecathlon:\n\nHammer Throw:\n\nLong Jump:\n\nPole Vault:\n\n1500m:\n\n10000m:\n\nMarathon:\n\n20 km Walk:\n\nDiscus Throw:\n\nMen's Singles Competition:\n\nMen's Road Individual Time Trial:\n\nMen's Road Race:\n\nIndividual Dressage:\n\nOne male fencer represented Portugal in 2000.\n\n\nMen's Half Lightweight (–66 kg):\n\nMen's Lightweight (–73 kg):\n\nMen's Half Middleweight (–81 kg):\n\nMen's Half Heavyweight (–100 kg):\n\nWomen's Lightweight (–57 kg):\n\nWomen's Half Heavyweight (–78 kg):\n\nSailboard (Mistral):\n\nDouble-Handed Dinghy (470):\n\nSingle-Handed Dinghy (Europe):\n\nSingle-Handed Dinghy (Laser):\n\nMultihull (Tornado):\n\nHigh-Performance Double-Handed Dinghy (49er):\n\nMen's 10m Air Pistol:\n\nMen's 50m Pistol:\n\nMen's Trap:\n\nMen's 50m Freestyle:\n\nMen's 200m Freestyle:\n\nMen's 100m Butterfly:\n\nMen's 100m Breaststroke:\n\nMen's 200m Breaststroke:\n\nMen's 100m Backstroke:\n\nMen's 200m Backstroke:\n\nWomen's 200m Butterfly:\n\nMen's Doubles Competition:\n\nMen's Competition:\n\nWomen's Competition:\n\n"}
{"id": "1843532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843532", "title": "Wilson Yard", "text": "Wilson Yard\n\nWilson Yard (also known as the Wilson Complex) is the largest of the Toronto Transit Commission's subway yards and bus garages. The subway yard services subway trains on Line 1 Yonge–University. The facility is located on Transit Rd. north of Wilson Ave, in the former city of North York (now part of Toronto), between Wilson and Sheppard West stations.\n\nThe site is on a large parcel of land first was once part of Downsview Airport, built in 1936.\nDuring World War II the airport was turned into a military facility, most often known as Canadian Forces Base Downsview. The site became available to the TTC around the 1970s, after the federal government sold off part of the base lands as surplus. \n\nIn 1974 the TTC considered interim expedients for storage of subway vehicles, until the Wilson Yard became available.\n\nThe yard was completed in 1976 and began operations in 1977. The facility also houses a bus barn and maintenance facilities for subway cars.\n\nWhen Downsview (the original name of Sheppard West) station opened in 1996, a northern yard entry track to the extended mainline was constructed to provide better train access to the station, situated north of the yard. \nBy 2010, a tunnel was constructed to provide a link to a proposed northerly expansion of the yard to the mainline just south of Downsview station, though track was not laid and it was left dormant until the yard expansion project was completed in 2018. When it finally opened, this new link provided an entry/exit to the new northern section of the yard for trains servicing the Toronto–York Spadina Subway Extension.\n\nSince May 2018, trains going out of service at the Wilson Yard do so by deadheading southbound from Vaughan Metropolitan Centre station, instead of northbound from Wilson station. This avoids northbound trains going out of service after the evening rush hour having to cross the southbound track, which was the practice prior to this time.\n\nModifications to the Wilson Yard were made to accommodate the new Toronto Rocket trains, the Toronto–York Spadina Subway Extension and increased demand on Line 1 Yonge–University. Work included expansion of the carhouse, a new hostler platform to support the new north-end entry/exit track, a new north-end runaround track connecting 8 new storage\ntracks in the west yard, a new power substation and a new training building with a simulator for TR trains.\n\nOpened in September 2018, the new hostler platform and north-end entry/exit track helps to reduce traffic delays by 44% in the early morning when work cars return from their night shift and service trains depart.\n\nAutomatic train control is being added to all the TTC's heavy rail routes. Automatic Train Control was functional within the 60 acre Wilson Yard in 2019. Spokesmen said robot control of trains, within the yard, would increase safety and decrease delays.\n\n\nWilson Yard is home to approximately half the commission's fleet of trains and work cars. The yard regularly houses most of the Toronto Rocket subway trains. It also houses some disused and outdated equipment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843534", "title": "Cold Sassy Tree", "text": "Cold Sassy Tree\n\nCold Sassy Tree is a 1984 historical novel by Olive Ann Burns. Set in the US state of Georgia in the fictional town of Cold Sassy (based on the real city of Harmony Grove, now Commerce) in 1906, it follows the life of a 14-year-old boy named Will Tweedy, and explores themes such as religion, death, and social taboos. An incomplete sequel to the novel, \"Leaving Cold Sassy\", was published in 1992 after Burns' death.\n\nOn July 5, 1906, Enoch Rucker Blakeslee announces that he intends to marry Miss Love Simpson, a milliner at his store who is years younger than he. This news shocks his family, since his wife Mattie Lou died only three weeks earlier. Rucker’s daughters, Mary Willis and Loma, worry about what the gossips of Cold Sassy will think of their father’s impropriety.\n\nWill Tweedy, Rucker’s 14-year-old grandson and the novel's narrator, supports his grandfather’s marriage. He thinks Miss Love is nice and pretty, although she comes from Baltimore and therefore is practically a Yankee. Will thinks Rucker needs someone to look after him now that Mattie Lou is gone. On the afternoon of Rucker and Miss Love's elopement, Will sneaks off to go fishing in the country, despite the fact that he is supposed to be in mourning for his grandmother. He walks across a high, narrow train trestle and nearly dies when a train speeds toward him. He survives by lying flat between the tracks so the train passes just overhead without touching him. Will becomes a sensation after his near-death experience, and the whole town comes to his house to ask him about the incident. Rucker shocks everyone by arriving with his new bride, Miss Love.\n\nThe people of Cold Sassy disapprove of Rucker’s hasty marriage, and rumors spread quickly in the small town, but Will spends much time at the Blakeslee home and becomes friends with Miss Love. He likes her candid opinions and open personality. He also has a little crush on her and often spies on her. He soon learns that it's a marriage of convenience and that Rucker and Miss Love sleep in separate rooms. Miss Love tells Will that she married Rucker only because he promised to deed her the house and furniture. And Rucker married Miss Love to save on the cost of a housekeeper.\n\nClayton McAllister, Miss Love’s former fiancé from Texas, shows up one day and tries to persuade her to leave with him. He kisses her, but she sends him away contemptuously after kissing him.\n\nWill and some of his friends make a trip into the country to pick up a horse for Miss Love, camping in the mountains along the way. When they return, Will and his father Hoyt try to convince Will’s mother, Mary Willis, to travel to New York. Rucker has bought the tickets to New York so Hoyt, who works for him, can go to purchase new goods for the store. At first Mary Willis refuses to go because she is in mourning, but Will and Hoyt convince her that the trip will do her good. Right after she changes her mind, Rucker decides to use the tickets himself to go to New York with Miss Love. Mary Willis is crushed, and her hatred of Miss Love increases. To take his and Mary Willis’ mind off the disappointment, Hoyt buys a brand-new Cadillac and becomes Cold Sassy's first car owner. Meanwhile, Rucker and Miss Love return from New York. They're now flirtatious and affectionate with each other, and Will wonders if their marriage is becoming more of a \"real one.\" Rucker announces that he too has bought a car and intends to start selling cars in Cold Sassy.\n\nLightfoot McLendon is a classmate of Will’s who lives in the impoverished section of Cold Sassy known as Mill Town. One day Will takes Lightfoot on a car ride to the cemetery, where he kisses her. A nosy neighbor sees the kiss and tells Will’s parents. Outraged at Will’s association with common people, Will’s parents forbid him to drive the Cadillac for two months. Will gets around his punishment by driving Rucker’s car. One Sunday he, Rucker, and Miss Love take a day trip into the country, where Will gives them driving lessons.\n\nOn the way back to Cold Sassy, as he tries to avoid a collision with a Ford wrecked in the middle of the road, Will crashes the car into a creek bed and damages the radiator. While they wait for a repair team, they stay with a nearby family. That night, Will overhears Rucker tell Miss Love that he loves her and wants their marriage to be real. Miss Love declares that she cannot and that no man would want her if he knew her terrible secret. When she finally tells him her secret—her father raped her when she was a child—he says he doesn't care and affirms his love for her.\n\nEventually, Miss Love and Rucker fall deeply in love. Will’s uncle Camp Williams commits suicide, which begins a dark period in Cold Sassy. Rucker hires Will’s worst enemy, Hosie Roach, to work at the store in Camp’s place; because of his new income, Hosie can marry Will's beloved Lightfoot. A pair of thieves rob and beat Rucker.; he recovers from his injuries, but catches pneumonia. As he lies sick in bed, Will overhears him tell Miss Love that God provides strength and comfort to the faithful in times of trouble. Miss Love tells Will that she's pregnant, although Rucker doesn't know. Rucker dies, but his message of faith in God gives Will strength to cope. Though the town and Will's family don't accept Miss Love, she knows they'll accept her child, so she plans to stay in Cold Sassy.\n\nThe novel was adapted into a TV movie in 1989, starring Richard Widmark, Faye Dunaway, and Neil Patrick Harris. In 2000, the American composer Carlisle Floyd wrote an opera based on the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843536", "title": "Vanuatu at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Vanuatu at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nVanuatu competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. Francois Latil was the oldest competitor, of any nationality, to participate in the Sydney Games, at the age of 62.\n\nLatil qualified on merit, while Kipsen and Mahuk, in track and field, received wildcards to compete at the Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843539", "title": "A.T. Kearney", "text": "A.T. Kearney\n\nKearney is an American global management consulting firm that focuses on strategic and operational CEO-agenda issues facing businesses, governments and institutions around the globe. Kearney maintains offices in more than 40 countries globally, and according to Glassdoor, it is the highest-paying company for employees in the United States as of April 2017.\n\nKearney's industry specialties include aerospace and defense, automotive, chemicals, communications media and technology, consumer products and retail, financial institutions, healthcare, metals and mining, oil and gas, private equity, public sector, transportation, and infrastructure and utilities. Major service lines are in strategy, analytics, mergers and acquisitions, innovation, operations, technology strategy, organization and transformation, marketing and sales, procurement, and sustainability.\n\nThe origins of the firm begin with the founding of McKinsey in 1926 in Chicago by James McKinsey under the name James O. McKinsey & Company. James McKinsey hired Andrew Thomas Kearney in 1929 as the firm's first partner. When McKinsey died in 1937, Kearney was the managing partner of the Chicago office. As suggested by the New York-based partners, the Chicago office split from the rest of company in 1939. In 1947, it was renamed A.T. Kearney and Company.\n\nThe firm opened its first international office in Düsseldorf, Germany in 1964. Its first office in Asia was opened in 1972, in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nIn 1995, Kearney was acquired by EDS, a technology consulting firm. It once again became an independent company in 2005.\n\nAs of April 2016, Kearney operates 60 offices in 40 countries. According to Glassdoor, it is the highest-paying company for employees in the United States as of April 2017.\n\nIn 2019, Kearney acquired Cervello, a business analytics and data management consultancy. Cervello's solution focus areas include enterprise performance management, data management, business intelligence and CRM. At the time of the acquisition, Cervello had offices in Boston, Dallas, New York, London and Bengaluru.\n\nThe Global Business Policy Council was founded in 1992 by Paul Laudicina as part of Kearney. Membership is by invitation-only. Members reportedly include academic, corporate, and government thought leaders, who meet at the annual CEO Retreat to discuss issues that affect the worldwide business climate. The Council publishes research and analysis throughout the year that offers unique, forward-looking perspectives on key issues, helping global business leaders make better-informed decisions in an increasingly complex world.\n\nKearney has consistently ranked among the top management consulting firms globally. The firm has been listed in \"Consulting\" magazine's \"Best Firms to Work For\" list seven times in eight years. The firm is a perennial on the Vault Guide's ranking of the most prestigious firms to work for. \"Working Mother\" magazine also ranks Kearney in its \"Best Companies\" list.\n\nIn 2015, 2016 & 2017 Kearney was awarded the Excellence in Social & Community Investment award by the 'Consulting Magazine'. The same magazine has recognized Kearney partners for the past seven years as one of the 'Top 25 Consultants', globally.\n\nBesides achievements of professional excellence, Kearney has been recognized for its supportive and collegial culture, inclusive programs and networks, and diverse talent. Since 2015, the firm has been recognized as one of the \"Best places to work for LGBT Equality' every year. Working Mother Magazine has not only recognized Kearney as one of the 'Top 100 Firms for Working Families and Women', but also awarded 5 of our many working mothers as 'Working Mothers of the Year' since 2013.\n\nIn 2012, the career review site Glassdoor ranked Kearney as the 4th most difficult company to interview with. Kearney's recruiting process involves multiple rounds of individual case, written case and experience-based interviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843545", "title": "Mauritius at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mauritius at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nMauritius competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\nMauritius's debut Olympic archery competition resulted in a loss in the first round for both of the nation's only archer.\n\nMen's 100 m\n\nMen's 200 m\n\nMen's 400 m\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nWomen's Hammer Throw\n\nMen's Aingles\n\nMen's Doubles\n\nWomen's Singles\n\nWomen's Doubles\n\nMixed Doubles\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (– 60 kg)\n\nMen's Super Heavyweight (+ 91 kg)\n\nMen's 100m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100m Freestyle\n\nMen\n\n"}
{"id": "1843552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843552", "title": "American Samoa at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "American Samoa at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nAmerican Samoa competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843554", "title": "Drum Corps International World Class Champions", "text": "Drum Corps International World Class Champions\n\nAt the end of the summer season, Drum Corps International (DCI) World Class corps compete to earn the title of DCI World Class Champion (formerly \"DCI Division I World Champion\"). The championships consist of 3 rounds—Preliminaries, Semifinals, and Finals—held on the first or second Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of August. Through 2010, all active World Class corps (22 corps as of 2016) competed in the Quarterfinals, with the top 17 advancing to the Semifinals. The top 12 corps from Semifinals then advanced to the Finals. Since the 2011 season, all active DCI corps (Open and World Class) have been permitted to compete for the championship. In this format, about 40 corps compete in Preliminaries, while the top 25 advances to Semifinals, with the top-scoring 12 advances to Finals. The champion is determined by the overall high score in the Finals competition. There are also a number of \"caption\" awards (high brass, high percussion, high visual, etc.), though the criteria for determination for those awards has changed from year to year. Due to the Coronavirus outbreak in 2020 the DCI World Championship and tour were canceled.\n\nOnly 10 corps have ever won the title (including 3 ties):\n\nThe Anaheim Kingsmen and Star of Indiana are no longer active. \n\n"}
{"id": "1843563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843563", "title": "Jump Britain", "text": "Jump Britain\n\nJump Britain is a 2005 documentary about Freerunning. Directed by Mike Christie and produced by Carbon Media, it is a sequel to Channel 4's \"Jump London\". Two of the three free runners from \"Jump London\", Sébastien Foucan and Jérôme Ben Aoues, appear alongside the members of Urban freeflow, as they interact with numerous famous landmarks all over Britain.\nAnother section of the documentary sees various members of Urban Freeflow go on a 'pilgrimage' to Lisses, France. The trip includes a visit to the famous Dame Du Lac.\n\nFree running is a physical discipline which grew from Parkour, led by David Belle. The free runners tackle some of the UK's most iconic sites including Edinburgh Castle and the Forth Bridge in Scotland, the Giant's Causeway and Derry's walls in Northern Ireland, the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, the Tyne Bridge in Newcastle and the International Convention Centre in Birmingham. The original soundtrack was composed by Ian Masterson and Thomas Beach, and was released on iTunes, as well as appearing as an extra on the DVD release.\n"}
{"id": "1843564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843564", "title": "Jump London", "text": "Jump London\n\nJump London is a documentary first broadcast by Channel 4 about parkour and free running in September 2003, directed by Mike Christie and produced by Optomen Television. It later spawned a sequel, \"Jump Britain\" that first aired in January 2005. Both feature documentaries were directed by Mike Christie. \n\n\"Jump London\" followed three French traceurs, Sébastien Foucan, Jérôme Ben Aoues, and Johann Vigroux, as they run around many of London's most famous landmarks, including Royal Albert Hall, Shakespeare's Globe Theater, HMS Belfast, and many others.\n\nThe music used in the film for each location was as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843572", "title": "43 (MBTA bus)", "text": "43 (MBTA bus)\n\nThe 43 Ruggles Station - Park Street Station is a bus route in Boston, Massachusetts, run by the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA). The route runs southwest from downtown Boston along Tremont Street, ending at the Ruggles bus terminal and Orange Line transfer point. It is notable as the last streetcar service to use the since-covered-over Pleasant Street Incline before its bustitution; until the new Southwest Corridor relocation of the southern Orange Line opened in May 1987, the route continued down Tremont Street and Columbus Avenue to Egleston (on the old Washington Street Elevated).\n\nTrackage along Tremont Street and Columbus Avenue was originally built in 1857 by the West Roxbury Railroad to provide service to Jamaica Plain (see Green Line \"E\" branch for more about that line). It used Tremont Street and Columbus Avenue from downtown to Centre Street. Soon afterward, in 1859, a branch of this line was built west along Tremont Street to Brookline (this later became part of the 66).\n\nThe Tremont Street subway opened to the four-track Pleasant Street Incline on October 1, 1897, and the western two tracks were connected to those running to the south along Tremont Street. However, between June 10, 1901, and November 29, 1908, the Main Line Elevated ran through the incline into the Tremont Street subway, and Tremont Street streetcars again ran along the surface; this ended when the Elevated gained its own tunnel under Washington Street in 1908, and the Tremont Street subway reverted to streetcar operation. At some time around then (after 1888), the tracks were extended the rest of the way to Egleston (and beyond, along Seaver Street).\n\nAfter March 1, 1953, the last day the to City Point ran, the 43 was shifted to the two eastern tracks to allow a bus transfer facility to be built where the western tracks had been. By this time, service ran to North Station, turning around on the lower-level loop at that station. Streetcars last ran to Egleston on June 14, 1956, after which they were cut back to |Lenox Street, with a new bus route (also numbered 43) running between Lenox Street and Egleston. Service to Lenox Street ended on November 19, 1961, and the bus was extended north past the Pleasant Street Incline to Boylston. A shuttle service was kept between the portal and Boylston, with one double-ended PCC streetcar on each track. This shuttle last ran April 5, 1962.\n\nOn February 26, 1966, the 43 was cut back to Stuart Street due to the temporary closure of Tremont Street. This terminus was kept until June 1972, when service was extended north around Boston Common to Park Street. With the opening of the new southern portion of the Orange Line in May 1987, the south end of the 43 was truncated to Ruggles, with extensions of the and providing service between Ruggles and Egleston (the latter having been reduced to a bus stop with the closure of the Washington Street Elevated).\n\n"}
{"id": "1843573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843573", "title": "Žvelgaitis", "text": "Žvelgaitis\n\nŽvelgaitis (\"Svelgates\"; literally: \"looker-about\") was a Lithuanian duke who died in 1205. He is the first Lithuanian duke whose name is known from reliable sources. The account of his expedition and death is given by Henry of Livonia, an early thirteenth-century German chronicler of Latvian history, spanning the years 1186-1227. Žvelgaitis is called \"rich and powerful,\" but he was not the supreme duke, as he led the army in the name of another, more powerful duke.\n\nIn 1205, Žvelgaitis led several thousand horsemen northward, from Lithuania through Riga, on the way to attack and plunder Estonia. Returning from Estonia mid-winter, with booty and Estonian slaves, his troops were caught unaware and attacked while crossing through waist-high snowdrifts. He was attacked by the Livonian and German citizens of Riga, under the leadership of Vester, ruler of Semigallians, coordinating the attack from a sleigh. Žvelgaitis was killed by a javelin thrown by German Theodore Schilling. 1,200 Lithuanian knights perished; the Estonian slaves were slaughtered as well, in retribution for \"past crimes\" against the Livonians. In Lithuania, the return of Žvelgaitis was missed, and it is said that as many as fifty wives of the Lithuanian soldiers killed themselves in grief, hoping to be all the sooner at the sides of their slain husbands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843576", "title": "Amédée Mannheim", "text": "Amédée Mannheim\n\nVictor Mayer Amédée Mannheim (17 July 1831 in Paris, France – 11 December 1906 in Paris, France) was the inventor of the modern slide rule. Around 1850, he introduced a new scale system that used a \"runner\" to perform calculations. This type of slide rule became known under the name of its inventor: the \"Mannheim\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1843578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843578", "title": "Rainbow Springs", "text": "Rainbow Springs\n\nRainbow Springs, formerly known as Blue Spring, is a first-magnitude artesian spring formation in Marion County, Florida, United States, several miles north of the city of Dunnellon. Rainbow Springs is the focal point of Rainbow Springs State Park. The spring formation is the fourth-largest in Florida, and produces over 490 million gallons of water daily. Rainbow Springs forms the headwaters of the Rainbow River, which empties into the Withlacoochee River.\n\nRainbow Springs was known as Wekiwa Creek by the Seminole Indians.\nIt was known as Blue Spring until the 1930s, when the site was developed as a tourist attraction and the promoter sought a more distinctive name (there are several other springs in Florida named \"Wekiwa\" and \"Blue\"). To compete with the \"glass bottom boats\" of nearby Silver Springs, Florida, submarine tours were given of the springs. As for some other Florida springs, such as Weeki Wachee Springs, \"mermaid shows\" were an attraction in the 1950s. The tourist attraction was forced to close in the 1970s at Rainbow Springs but still goes on daily at Weeki Wachee Springs.\n\nThe entire Rainbow River was designated as a Registered Natural Landmark in 1972, an Aquatic Preserve in 1986, and an \"Outstanding Florida Waterway\" in 1987. The land around the headwaters of the springs remained privately owned until 1990, when the State of Florida acquired the springs and saved them from development. Much of the work to open Rainbow Springs State Park was done by volunteers from the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843579", "title": "Mark Lynas", "text": "Mark Lynas\n\nMark Lynas (born 1973) is a British author, journalist and environmental activist who focuses on climate change. He is a contributor to \"New Statesman\", \"The Ecologist\", \"Granta \"and \"Geographical \"magazines, and \"The Guardian\" and \"The Observer\" newspapers in the UK; he also worked on the film \"The Age of Stupid\". He was born in Fiji, grew up in Peru and the United Kingdom and holds a degree in history and politics from the University of Edinburgh. He lives in Oxford, England. He has published several books including \"\" (2007) and \"The God Species: Saving the Planet in the Age of Humans\" (2011). He has stated \"I think there is a 50–50 chance we can avoid a devastating rise in global temperature.\"\n\nIn 2004, Lynas' \"High Tide: The Truth About Our Climate Crisis\" was published by Macmillan Publishers on its Picador imprint. He has also contributed to a book entitled \"Fragile Earth: Views of a Changing World\" published by Collins, which presents before-and-after images of some of the natural changes which have happened to the world in recent years, including the Indian Ocean tsunami and Hurricane Katrina, alongside a bleak look at the effects of mankind's actions on the planet.\n\nIn January 2007, Lynas published \"Gem Carbon Counter,\" containing instructions to calculate people's personal carbon emissions and recommendations about how to reduce their impact on the atmosphere.\n\nIn 2007, he published \",\" a book detailing the progressive effect of global warming in several planetary ecosystems, from 1 degree to 6 degrees and further of average temperature rise of the planet. Special coverage is given to the positive feedback mechanisms that could dramatically accelerate the climate change, possibly putting the climate on a runaway path. As a possible end scenario the release of methane hydrate from the bottom of the oceans could replicate the end-Permian extinction event. This book won the Royal Society's science book of the year award in 2008.\n\nIn 2008, National Geographic released a documentary film based on Lynas's book, entitled \"Six Degrees Could Change the World.\"\n\nIn 2010, Lynas published an article in the \"New Statesman\" entitled \"Why We Greens Keep Getting It Wrong\" and the same year was the main contributor to a UK Channel 4 Television programme called \"What the Green Movement Got Wrong.\" In these he explained that he now felt that several of his previous strongly held beliefs were wrong. For example, he suggested that opposition by environmentalists, such as himself, to the development of nuclear energy had speeded up climate change, and that GM crops were necessary to feed the world.\n\nThis latter position was attacked as patronising and naive by some developing world commentators, including one featured in a Channel Four debate after the programme aired. A number of experts also criticised Lynas's factual errors in contributing to the film. British environmentalist George Monbiot wrote in the \"Guardian\" that '[Stewart] Brand and Lynas present themselves as heretics. But their convenient fictions chime with the thinking of the new establishment: corporations, thinktanks, neoliberal politicians. The true heretics are those who remind us that neither social nor environmental progress are possible unless power is confronted. Since writing this, George Monbiot is no longer opposed to nuclear power as an alternative to more polluting sources such as coal.\n\nIn July 2011, Lynas published in the U.K. the book entitled \"The God Species: How the Planet Can Survive the Age of Humans\". It was also published in the U.S. by National Geographic in October 2011 as \"The God Species: Saving the Planet in the Age of Humans\" (). Lynas argues that as Earth has entered the Anthropocene, and as such humanity is changing the planet's climate, its bio-geochemical cycles, the chemistry of the oceans and the colour of the sky, as well as reducing the number of species. Based on the planetary boundaries concept, he proposes several strategies that are controversial among the environmental community, such as using nuclear power and the Integral fast reactor to reduce carbon emissions and geoengineering to mitigate inevitable global warming; or genetic engineering (transgenics) to feed the world and reduce the environmental impact of agriculture. In 2012, Mark Lynas was bestowed the Paradigm Award by the Breakthrough Institute in recognition of his intellectual leadership on the Anthropocene.\n\nIn January 2012, Lynas published an article titled \"In defence of nuclear power\", in which he states that \"nuclear provides the vast majority of the UK's current low-carbon electricity – as much as 70%, whilst avoiding the emission of 40 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. This is why I want to see more nuclear power in the UK and elsewhere, in order to avoid more carbon emissions\". In September 2012, Lynas wrote a follow-up article in the Guardian entitled \"Without nuclear, the battle against global warming is as good as lost.\"\n\nIn 2013, Lynas published Nuclear 2.0: Why A Green Future Needs Nuclear Power. Lynas is featured in the 2013 pro-nuclear documentary film Pandora's Promise. Generation IV reactor research programs are developing the type of nuclear power described in Pandora's Promise.\n\nIn a January 2013 lecture to the Oxford Farming Conference, Lynas detailed his conversion from an organizer of the anti-GMO food movement in Europe to becoming a supporter of the technology. He admitted \"... in 2008, I was still penning screeds in the Guardian attacking the science of GM – even though I had done no academic research on the topic, and had a pretty limited personal understanding. I don't think I'd ever read a peer-reviewed paper on biotechnology or plant science...\" He apologized for engaging in vandalism of field trials of genetically engineered crops, stating that \"anti-science environmentalism became increasingly inconsistent with my pro-science environmentalism with regard to climate change.\" Lynas criticized organizations with which he was previously associated, including Greenpeace and organic trade groups like the U.K. Soil Association, for ignoring scientific facts about genetically modified crop safety and benefits because it conflicted with their ideologies and stated he \"was completely wrong to oppose GMOs.\"\n\nIn April 2015, Lynas joined with a group of scholars in issuing \"An Ecomodernist Manifesto\". The other authors were: John Asafu-Adjaye, Linus Blomqvist, Stewart Brand, Barry Brook. Ruth DeFries, Erle Ellis, Christopher Foreman, David Keith, Martin Lewis, Ted Nordhaus, Roger A. Pielke, Jr., Rachel Pritzker, Joyashree Roy, Mark Sagoff, Michael Shellenberger, Robert Stone, and Peter Teague\n\nIn 2017, Lynas appeared at the 17th European Skeptics Congress (ESC) in Old Town Wrocław, Poland. This congress was organised by the Klub Sceptyków Polskich (Polish Skeptics Club) and Český klub skeptiků Sisyfos (Czech Skeptic's Club). Here he was a speaker along with Marcin Rotkiewicz and Tomáš Moravec on the topic of genetically modified organisms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843580", "title": "G.I.", "text": "G.I.\n\nG.I. are initials used to describe the soldiers of the United States Army and airmen of the United States Air Forces and also for general items of their equipment. The term G.I. has been used as an initialism of \"Government Issue\", \"General Issue\", or \"Ground Infantry\", but it originally referred to \"galvanized iron\", as used by the logistics services of the United States Armed Forces.\n\nDuring World War I, American soldiers sardonically referred to incoming German artillery shells as \"G.I. cans\". Also during that war, \"G.I.\" started being interpreted as \"Government Issue\" or \"General Issue\" for the general items of equipment of soldiers and airmen. The term \"G.I.\" came into widespread use in the United States with the start of the Selective Service System (\"the draft\") in 1940, extending into 1941. It gradually replaced the term ”Doughboy” that was used in World War I. Next, the use of \"G.I.\" expanded from 1942 through 1945. American five-star General Dwight D. Eisenhower said in 1945 that \"the truly heroic figure of this war [is] G.I. Joe and his counterpart in the air, the navy, and the Merchant Marine of every one of the United Nations.\"\n\n\"G.I.\" was also used as an adjective for anything having to do with the US Army or Army Air Force.\n\n\"They Call Me Joe\" was a series of radio dramas aired in 1944. Each episode focused on a different fictional American soldier. A soldier of a different national or ethnic origin was selected for each episode, but he was always identified as a G. I. named Joe. The series was intended to encourage Americans of varying backgrounds to cooperate to win World War II. It was produced by the NBC University of the Air, which also produced a series The World's Great Novels. The series ran for twelve weeks and aired both on the NBC Radio Network and the Armed Forces Radio Network. \n\n”G.I. Joe”, an action figure, was introduced by Hasbro in 1964. Its name comes from the term used to describe soldiers during the war.\n\nIn British military parlance and in armed forces modelled on British military traditions, G.I. refers to a Gunnery Instructor (generally an NCO responsible for inducting and training recruits).\n\n"}
{"id": "1843593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843593", "title": "Catholic Mariology", "text": "Catholic Mariology\n\nCatholic Mariology refers to Mariology—the systematic study of the person of Mary, mother of Jesus, and of her place in the Economy of Salvation—within Catholic theology. Mary is seen as having a singular dignity above the saints. The Catholic Church teaches that she was conceived without original sin, therefore receiving a higher level of veneration than all other saints. Catholic Mariology thus studies not only her life but also the veneration of her in daily life, prayer, hymns, art, music, and architecture in modern and ancient Christianity throughout the ages.\n\nThe four dogmas of perpetual virginity, Mother of God, Immaculate Conception and Assumption form the basis of Mariology. However, a number of other Catholic doctrines about the Virgin Mary have been developed by reference to sacred scripture, theological reasoning and Church tradition. The development of Mariology is ongoing and since the beginnings it has continued to be shaped by theological analyses, writings of saints, and papal statements, e.g. while two Marian dogmas are ancient, the other two were defined in the 19th and 20th centuries; and papal teachings on Mary have continued to appear in recent times.\n\nIn parallel to the traditional views, since the late 19th century, a number of other perspectives have been presented as a challenge to Catholic Mariology. Other Christian views see Mariology as unbiblical and a denial of the uniqueness of Christ as redeemer and mediator to modern psychological interpretations of Mary as the equivalent of mythical Goddesses ranging from Diana to Guan Yin. \n\nThe study of Mary and her place in the Catholic Church has been undertaken from a number of perspectives and within a number of contexts, and in his address to the 2012 Mariological congress, Pope Benedict XVI stated that this study must be \"understood and deeply examined from different and complementary viewpoints\". Benedict also emphasized that the study of Mary cannot be performed in isolation from other disciplines and that Mariology is inherently related to the study of Christ and of the Church, and expresses the inner coherence of these disciplines.\n\nPope Benedict XVI has stated that Marian studies have three separate characteristics: first personalizing the Church so it is not seen just as a structure but as a person, secondly the incarnational aspect and the relation to God, and third Marian piety which involves the heart and the emotional component.\n\nMary's position in Church can be compared to the aspect of the Petrine office in a dual sense. This perspective on the duality of the roles of Mary and Peter highlights the subjective holiness of the heart and the holiness of the structure of the Church. In this duality, the Petrine office logically examines the charisms for their theological soundness, while the Marian dual provides a balance in the spiritual and emotional sense via the service of love that the office can never encompass. Mariology and the doctrine of office are thus not \"side chapels\" in Catholic teachings, but are central and integrating elements of it. As referenced in the encyclical on the Mystical Body of Christ, Pius XII, 1943, her fiat gave consent for a spiritual marriage between the Son of God and human nature, thus giving humanity the means to salvation. Mary's rights (wedding feast at Cana), and Mary's love (fiat) are essential to salvation.\n\nMariology is a field in which deeply felt pious beliefs of the faithful and hagiography may conflict with theological and critical historical reviews of beliefs and practices. This conflict was recognized as early as the year 1300 by William of Ware who described the tendency of some believers to attribute almost everything to Mary. Bonaventura warned against Marian maximalism. \"One has to be careful as to not to minimize the honour of our Lord, Jesus Christ.\" Both minimalist and maximalist have always seen in Mary a sign of the Church and viewed her as a model for all Catholics.\n\nIn the 20th century, Pope Pius XII, \"the most Marian Pope in Church history\" warned against both exuberant exaggerations and timid minimalism in the presentation of Mary. The Vatican II dogmatic constitution \"Lumen gentium\" was specifically written in 1964 to avoid both Marian maximalism and minimalism. Pope John Paul II was also careful to avoid both maximalism and minimalism in his Mariology and avoided taking personal positions on issues which were subject to theological debate.\n\nMariology (the study of Mary) has been related to Christology (the study of Christ) and in the Catholic theological and papal writings has been viewed as interwoven with the mystery of Christ. Pope John Paul II discussed the \"precise place of Mary\" in the plan of salvation in the encyclical \"Redemptoris Mater\" and stated: \"Following the line of the Second Vatican Council, I wish to emphasize the special presence of the Mother of God in the mystery of Christ and his Church. For this is a fundamental dimension emerging from the Mariology of the Council\".\n\nCatholic theologians have also explored the interwoven natures of Mariology and Christology. Pope Benedict XVI characterized the relationship by stating that \"Christology and Mariology are inseparably interwoven\" from their very beginnings. In his view, Mariology underscores the nexus of the mysteries of Christology and ecclesiology, and reflects they are intrinsically interwoven.\n\nEarly Christians and numerous saints focused on this connection and popes highlighted the inner link between Marian doctrines and a fuller understanding of Christological themes. Given the Catholic perspective that the Church lives in its relation to Christ, being the Body of Christ, it also has a relation to his mother, whose study is the subject of Catholic Mariology. Pope Saint Pius X in \"Ad diem illum\" stated: \"there is no more direct road than by Mary for uniting all mankind in Christ.\"\n\nIn Catholic theology the study of Mary, while contributing to the study of Christ, is also a separate discipline in its own right, with an understanding of the figure of Mary contributing to a fuller understanding of who Christ is and what he did. The Congregation for Catholic Education has characterized the situation as follows: \"The history of theology shows that an understanding of the mystery of the Virgin contributes to a more profound understanding of the mystery of Christ, of the Church and of the vocation of man.\" Referring to this, Cardinal Raymond Burke stated that the promotion of a fuller knowledge of the Virgin Mary is the \"constant work of the Church\".\n\nEarly Christians focused their piety at first more upon the martyrs; but following that, they saw in Mary a bridge between the old and the new. The earliest recorded prayer to Mary, the \"sub tuum praesidium\", is dated to around the year 250.\n\nIn Egypt the veneration of Mary had started in the 3rd century and the term Theotokos was used by Church Father Origen.\n\nThe Renaissance period witnessed a dramatic growth in Marian art. Masterpieces by Botticelli, Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael were produced in this period. In the 16th century, the Council of Trent confirmed the Catholic tradition of paintings and artworks in churches, resulting in a great development of Marian art and Mariology during the Baroque Period. During the Reformation, the Catholic Church defended its Mariology against Protestant views. With the victory at Battle of Lepanto (1571) accredited to her, it \"signified the beginning of a strong resurgence of Marian devotions.\" The baroque literature on Mary experienced unforeseen growth. More than 500 pages of Mariological writings were published during the 17th century alone.\n\nPopes have fostered the veneration of the Blessed Virgin through the promotion of Marian devotions, feast days, prayers, initiatives, the acceptance and support of Marian congregations, and, the formal recognition of Marian apparitions such as in Lourdes and Fátima. Popes Alexander VII and Clement X both promulgated the veneration of the Heart of Jesus and the Heart of Mary, a concept which was embraced by pope John Paul II in the 20th century as the Alliance of the Hearts of Jesus and Mary.\n\nThe two Marian dogmas of Immaculate Conception and Assumption were established by popes in the 19th and 20th century. Pope Pius XII issued the Dogma of the Assumption and the Second Vatican Council declared Mary to be the \"Mother of the Church\". In his 2002 Apostolic Letter \"Rosarium Virginis Mariae\", Pope John Paul II emphasized Saint Louis de Montfort's approach of viewing the study of Mary as a path to gaining a better understanding of the mystery of Christ.\n\nMarian Catholic dogmas present infallible Church teachings about Mary and her relation to Jesus Christ, and reflect the role of Mary in the economy of salvation.\n\n\"De Fide Definita\" or \"De Fide Credenda\" doctrines have the highest degree of dogmatic certainty. These doctrines come in several forms, namely the sacred scriptures and apostolic tradition and teachings which have been specifically defined as revealed by an extraordinary definition by a Pope or Ecumenical council (extraordinary universal Magisterium), or those teachings infallibly taught to be revealed by the ordinary universal Magisterium. As in the case of the Immaculate Conception or the Assumption, these doctrines were held by the Church prior to the date of official definition, but open for discussion. From the date of definition, they must be accepted by all members of the Catholic Church as contained specifically in the Deposit of Faith and owed supernatural faith in itself (de fide credenda).\n\nThere are four Marian dogmas specifically defined by the Magisterium among a large number of other dogmas and doctrines about the Virgin Mary—for example, the Annunciation of Mary is dogma because it is in the scriptures, but it has not been formally defined by the Magisterium. These four Marian dogmas include:\n\nMary's mothership of God is a dogma of the Catholic Church. The term \"Mother of God\" appears within the oldest known prayer to Mary, the Sub tuum praesidium, which dates to around 250 AD: \"Under thy protection we seek refuge, Holy Mother of God\". This was the first specifically Marian doctrine to be formally defined by the Church, formally affirmed at the Third Ecumenical Council held at Ephesus in 431. This refuted the objection raised by Patriarch Nestorius of Constantinople.\n\nScriptural basis for the dogma is found in which states \"And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us\" and in which states \"God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law\". further affirms divine maternity by stating: \"The Holy Spirit shall come upon thee ... wherefore also the holy thing which is begotten shall be called the Son of God.\"\n\nThe dogmatic constitution \"Lumen gentium\" at the Second Vatican Council affirmed Mary as the Mother of God. \"The Virgin Mary, who at the message of the angel received the Word of God in her heart and in her body and gave Life to the world, is acknowledged and honored as being truly the Mother of God and Mother of the Redeemer.\" \n\nThis dogma is inherently related to the Christological dogma of the hypostatic union which relates the divine and human natures of Jesus Christ. The Catechism teaches that \"Mary is truly 'Mother of God' since she is the mother of the eternal Son of God made man, who is God himself.\" According to Saunders, Mary did not create the divine person of Jesus, who existed with the Father from all eternity.\n\nThis dogma states that \"Mary was assumed into heaven with body and soul\" (de fide). The Catechism of the Catholic Church (item 966) states:\n\nPope Pius XII discussed the Assumption in \"Deiparae Virginis Mariae\" (1946) and in declared it a dogma in \"Munificentissimus Deus\" (1950).\n\nAlthough the Assumption was only recently defined as dogma, accounts of the bodily assumption of Mary into heaven have circulated since at least the 5th century and by the 8th century saints Andrew of Crete and John of Damascus had declared belief in it. The Book of Revelation (12:1) has been interpreted as referring to it; with her coronation implying her previous bodily assumption to heaven.\n\nBefore declaring the Assumption a dogma in \"Munificentissimus Deus\" in 1950, in the encyclical \"Deiparae virginis Mariae\" (1946) Pope Pius XII obtained the opinion of Catholic bishops, and based on their overwhelming support (1210 among the 1232 bishops) proceeded with the dogmatic definition. The consensus of Magisterial teaching and liturgy affirms that Mary suffered death before her assumption, but this is not always accepted as settled doctrine.\n\nWhen responding to Pope Pius XII following the circulation of \"Deiparae Virginis Mariae\" a large number of Catholic bishops pointed the Book of Genesis () as a scriptural basis. In \"Munificentissimus Deus\" (item 39) Pius XII referred to the \"struggle against the infernal foe\" as in Genesis 3:15 and to \"complete victory over the sin and death\" as in the Letters of Paul as a scriptural basis for the dogmatic definition, Mary being assumed to heaven as in : \"then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory\".\n\nThis dogma states that \"Mary was conceived without original sin\" (de fide). This means that the conception of Mary in her mother's womb was without any stain of original sin and from the first moment of her existence, she was preserved by God from the lack of sanctifying grace that afflicts mankind, and that she was instead filled with divine grace.\n\nThe dogma of the Immaculate Conception is distinct from and should not be confused with the perpetual virginity of Mary or the virgin birth of Jesus; for this dogma refers to the conception of Mary by her mother, Saint Anne and not the conception of Jesus.\n\nThe feast of the Immaculate Conception, celebrated on December 8, was established in 1476 by Pope Sixtus IV, but the dogmatic definition was performed by Pope Pius IX in his constitution \"Ineffabilis Deus\", on December 8, 1854. The dogmatic definition in \"Ineffabilis Deus\" (which is Latin for \"Ineffable God\"), was made \"ex cathedra\" by the exercise of papal authority by Pope Pius IX.\n\nThe dogma states that Mary possessed sanctifying grace from the first instant of her existence and by a special and unique gift of God was free from the lack of grace caused by the original sin at the beginning of human history.\nIn \"Fulgens corona\" (item 10) Pope Pius XII reaffirmed the concept by stating:\n\"Who will dare to doubt that she, who was purer than the angels and at all times pure, was at any moment, even for the briefest instant, not free from every stain of sin?\"\n\n\"Ineffabilis Deus\" (as well as Pope Pius XII's \"Munificentissimus Deus\" on the Assumption) also teaches the predestination of Mary, in that she was preserved from sin due to the role reserved for her in the economy of salvation. This predetermination of Mary's role in salvation was referred to in \"Lumen gentium\" (item 61) which stated that she was \"Predestined from eternity by that decree of divine providence which determined the incarnation of the Word to be the Mother of God.\"\n\nThis dogma states that \"Mary was a virgin before, during and after giving birth\" (de fide). This oldest Marian doctrine, (also held by Lutheran, Eastern Orthodox, and Oriental Orthodox, and many other Christians) affirms Mary's \"real and perpetual virginity even in the act of giving birth to the Son of God made Man.\" Thus, by the teaching of this dogma, the faithful believe that Mary was ever-Virgin (Greek \"\") for the whole of her life, making Jesus her only biological son, whose conception and birth are held to be miraculous.\n\nThe doctrine of perpetual virginity is distinct from the dogma of the Immaculate Conception of Mary, which relates to the conception of the Virgin Mary herself without any stain (\"macula\" in Latin) of original sin.\n\nVirginity before birth\n\nThis means that \"Mary conceived by the Holy Spirit\" without participation of any man (de fide). The Greek term \"Aeiparthenos\" (i.e. \"Ever Virgin\") is attested to from the early 4th century. The Catechism of the Catholic Church (item 499) includes the term Aeiparthenos and referring to the dogmatic constitution \"Lumen gentium\" (item 57) states: \"Christ's birth did not diminish his mother's virginal integrity but sanctified it.\"\n\nVirginity during birth\n\nThis means that \"Mary gave birth without losing her corporal virginity\" (de fide) and her corporal integrity was not affected by giving birth. The Church does not teach how this occurred physically, but insists that virginity during child birth is different from virginity of conception; Pope Pius XII stating in \"Mystici corporis\" \"Within her virginal womb Christ our Lord already bore the exalted title of Head of the Church; in a marvelous birth she brought Him forth as the source of all supernatural life\".\n\nVirginity after birth\n\nThis means that \"Mary remained a virgin after giving birth\" (de fide). This belief of the Church was questioned in its early years. The scriptures say little about this, mentioning the brothers of Jesus, but never \"sons of Mary,\" suggesting to the patristical writers a broader family relationship.\n\nApart from the four Marian dogmas listed above, the Catholic Church holds a number of other doctrines about the Virgin Mary which have been developed by references to Sacred Scripture, theological reasoning and Church tradition.\n\nThe doctrine that the Virgin Mary has been crowned Queen of Heaven goes back to certain early patristic writers of the Church such as St. Gregory Nazianzen \"the Mother of the King of the universe,\" and the \"Virgin Mother who brought forth the King of the whole world,\" Prudentius, the Mother marvels \"that she has brought forth God as man, and even as Supreme King.\" and, St. Ephrem, \"Let Heaven sustain me in its embrace, because I am honored above it. For heaven was not Thy mother, but Thou hast made it Thy throne. How much more honorable and venerable than the throne of a king is her mother.\" The Catholic Church often sees Mary as queen in heaven, bearing a crown of twelve stars in Revelation\n\nMany Popes have given tribute to Mary in this regard, for example: Mary is the Queen of Heaven and Earth, (Pius IX), Queen and Ruler of the Universe (Leo XIII) and Queen of the World (Pius XII) The theological and logical foundation of these titles rests in the dogma of Mary as the Mother of God. As mother of God, she participates in his salvation plan. The Catholic faith teaches that Mary, the Virgin Mother of God, reigns with a mother's solicitude over the entire world, just as she is crowned in heavenly blessedness with the glory of a Queen:\n\nThe title \"Mother of the Church\" (in Latin \"Mater Ecclesiae\") was officially given to the Virgin Mary during the Second Vatican Council by Pope Paul VI. This title goes back to St. Ambrose of Milan in the 4th century, but this use was not known until its 1944 rediscovery by Hugo Rahner. Rahner's Mariology, following Ambrose, saw Mary in her role within the Church, his interpretation being based solely on Ambrose and the early Fathers.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church states that the Virgin Mary is mother of the Church and of all its members, namely all Christians:\n\nPope Paul VI's \"Credo of the People of God\" states:\n\nIn \"Redemptoris Mater\" Pope John Paul II referred to Paul VI's \"Credo of the People of God\" as a reaffirmation of the statement that Mary is the \"mother of the entire Christian people, both faithful and pastors\" and wrote that the Credo \"restated this truth in an even more forceful way\":\n\nPope Benedict XVI also referred to the \"Credo\" of Paul VI and stated that it sums up all of the scriptural texts that relate to the matter.\n\nIn his homily on 2015 New Year’s Day, Pope Francis said that Jesus and his mother Mary are “inseparable,” just like Jesus and the Church, who is the mother of all humanity that guides her children to God.\n\nIn Catholic teachings, Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man. He alone reconciled through his death on the Cross creator and creation. But this does not exclude a secondary mediating role for Mary, preparatory, supportive, in the view of several prominent, but not all Catholics. The teaching that Mary intercedes for all believers and especially those who request her intercession through prayer has been held in the Church since early times, for example by Ephraim, the Syrian “after the mediater a mediatrix for the whole world Intercession is something that may be done by all the heavenly saints, but Mary is seen as having the greatest intercessionary power. The earliest surviving recorded prayer to Mary is the Sub tuum praesidium, written in Greek.\n\nMary has increasingly been seen as a principal dispenser of God's graces and Advocate for the people of God and is mentioned as such in several official Church documents. Pope Pius IX used the title in Ineffabilis Deus. In the first of his so-called \"Rosary encyclicals\", \"Supremi apostolatus officio\" (1883), Pope Leo XIII calls Our Lady \"the guardian of our peace and the dispensatrix of heavenly graces.\" The following year, 1884, his encyclical \"Superiore anno\" speaks of the prayers presented to God \"through her whom He has chosen to be the dispenser of all heavenly graces\". Pope Pius X employed this title in \"Ad diem illum\" in 1904, Pope Benedict XV introduced it into the Marian liturgy when he created the Marian feast of Mary, Mediatrix of all Graces in 1921, In his 1954 encyclical Ad caeli reginam, Pope Pius XII calls Mary the Mediatrix of peace.\n\nSupport for Mary as Co-Redemptrix appeared in the 20th century. In 1996 the Holy See formed a commission to seek the opinion of scholars regarding the possibility and the opportuneness of establishing a fifth Marian dogma on Mary as Coredemptrix, Mediatrix and Advocate. A lay movement called \"Vox Populi Mariae Mediatrici\" promotes the doctrine of Mary as Coredemptrix, Mediatrix and Advocate. Co-Redemptrix refers to the participation of Mary in the salvation process. Irenaeus, the Church Father (died 200), referred to Mary as \"causa salutis\" [cause of our salvation] given her \"fiat.\"\nIt is teaching, which has been considered since the 15th century but never declared a dogma.\n\nPopes have been important in shaping both the theological and the devotional aspects of the Catholic perspective on the Virgin Mary. Theologically, popes have highlighted the inner link between Virgin Mary and Jesus Christ, in the encyclicals \"Mystici corporis\", \"Lumen gentium\" and \"Redemptoris Mater\".\n\nMarian devotions are highly prominent within the Catholic tradition and a wide variety of devotions ranging from Consecration to Mary, to the wearing of scapular, to multi-day prayers such as Rosary Novenas are practiced by Catholics.\n\nThe spread of Marian devotions, such as the Rosary via lay organizations, has also influenced popular interest in Mariology, the growth of Marian devotions building \"sensus fidelium\", which influences the public interest in specific aspects of Mariology. Marian devotions generally begin at the level of popular piety, often in connection with the religious experiences and visions of simple and modest individuals (in some cases children), and the recounting of their experiences in time creates strong emotions among numerous Catholics to build sensus fidelium.\n\nTheologians have at times cited in support of their Mariology this constant sensus fidelium, e.g. Saint Alphonsus Liguori valued texts and traditions of the Church Fathers as expressions of the sensus fidelium of the past and attributed great weight to the argument that \"the greater part of the faithful have always had recourse to the intercession of the divine mother for all the graces which they desire\". Speaking of the witness of the Church Fathers in attributing certain titles to Mary, in \"Fulgens corona\" Pope Pius XII wrote:\n\nIf the popular praises of the Blessed Virgin Mary be given the careful consideration they deserve, who will dare to doubt that she, who was purer than the angels and at all times pure, was at any moment, even for the briefest instant, not free from every stain of sin?\nThe Marian dogmas of the Immaculate Conception and the Assumption of Mary were defined in part on the basis of the \"sensus fidei\", \"the supernatural appreciation of faith on the part of the whole people, when, from the bishops to the last of the faithful, they manifest a universal consent in matters of faith and morals\". In the case of the dogmas of Immaculate Conception and Assumption, the two popes concerned consulted the Catholic bishops worldwide about the faith of the community before proceeding to define the dogma.\n\nReferring to these dogmas, in 2010 Pope Benedict XVI called the People of God the \"teacher that goes first\" and stated:\n\n\"Faith both in the Immaculate Conception and in the bodily Assumption of the Virgin was already present in the People of God, while theology had not yet found the key to interpreting it in the totality of the doctrine of the faith. The People of God therefore precede theologians and this is all thanks to that supernatural \"sensus fidei\", namely, that capacity infused by the Holy Spirit that qualifies us to embrace the reality of the faith with humility of heart and mind. In this sense, the People of God is the 'teacher that goes first' and must then be more deeply examined and intellectually accepted by theology.\" \nMarian devotions have been encouraged by popes, and in \"Marialis cultus\" Pope Paul VI stated: \"From the moment when we were called to the See of Peter, we have constantly striven to enhance devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary. In \"Rosarium Virginis Mariae\", Pope John Paul II stated: \"Among all devotions that which most consecrates and conforms a soul to our Lord is devotion to Mary.\n\nDevotion to the Virgin Mary does not, however, amount to worship - which is reserved for God; Catholics view Mary as subordinate to Christ, but uniquely so, in that she is seen as above all other creatures. In 787 the Second Council of Nicaea affirmed a three-level hierarchy of \"latria\", \"hyperdulia\" and \"dulia\" that applies to God, the Virgin Mary and then to the other saints.\n\nIn Los Angeles, California, a Marian procession took place annually for roughly the first 100 years following the founding of the city. In an attempt to revive the custom of religious processions, in September 2011 the Queen of Angels Foundation, founded by Mark Anchor Albert, inaugurated an annual \"Grand Marian Procession\" in the heart of Downtown Los Angeles' historic core. This yearly procession, intended to coincide with the anniversary of the founding of the City of Los Angeles, begins outside of the parish of La Iglesia de Nuestra Señora Reina de los Angeles which is part of the Los Angeles Plaza Historic District, better known as \"La Placita\". By way of city streets, the procession eventually terminates at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels where a public Rosary and Mass in honour of the Blessed Virgin Mary are offered. Subsequent years have seen the involvement and participation of numerous chivalric, fraternal, and religious orders, parishes, lay groups, political figures, as well as other religious and civic organizations.\n\nThroughout the centuries, Catholics have viewed the Virgin Mary from a number of perspectives, at times derived from specific Marian attributes ranging from queenship to humility and at other times based on cultural preferences of events taking place at specific points in history. In parallel with the traditional approaches to Mariology, opposing views based on progressive interpretations of have been presented by feminists, psychologists and liberal Catholics.\n\nTraditional views on Mary have emphasized the Marian dogmas and doctrines, accompanied by devotions and venerations. Yet these views have changed and been transformed over time.\n\nAn example of the changing perspectives on the Virgin Mary based on specific spiritual views, and its adoption within a culture a world away is the transformation of the image of Mary from a Heavenly Queen to a mother of humility, and the construction of views to accommodate both perspectives. While depictions of the Virgin Mary as the Queen of Heaven or Coronation of the Virgin by artists such as Paolo Veneziano or Giuliano da Rimini were common in the early part of the 14th century, they did not fit with the virtue of humility which was a key tenet of the spirituality of Saint Francis of Assisi. The concept of the Virgin of humility was developed in the 14th century in order to accommodate Franciscan piety, by depicting the Madonna sitting on the ground, rather than a throne. It offered a view of the Virgin Mary (often barefoot) as a mother nursing a child, rather than a Queen in a coronation scene.\n\nAs the Franciscans began to preach in China, the notion of the \"Virgin of humility\" resonated well with the Chinese, partly due to the cultural acceptance of humility as a virtue in China, and partly due to its similarity to the motherly, merciful figure of Kuanyin, which was much admired in south China. However, by the middle of the 15th century, a dual view had emerged in Europe, as represented by Domenico di Bartolo's 1433 Madonna of humility which expressed the symbolic duality of her nature: an earthly barefoot woman, as well as a heavenly queen. Despite her low, sitting position, the depiction of star and the gems, as well as a halo, signify the regal status of the Virgin, as she is being attended to while she holds the Child Jesus.\n\nSaint Juan Diego's account of the appearance of the Virgin of Guadalupe to him in 1531 on Tepeyac Hill in Mexico provides another example of the cultural adaptation of the view of the Virgin Mary. Juan Diego did not describe the Virgin Mary as either European or Middle Eastern, but as a tanned Aztec princess who spoke in his local Nahuatl language, and not in Spanish. The image of the Virgin of Guadalupe that is highly venerated in Mexico has the appearance of an Indigenous Central American, rather than a European woman, and the clothing of the Virgin of Guadalupe has been identified as that of an Aztec princess. The Virgin of Guadalupe was a turning point in the conversion of Latin America to Catholicism, and is the primary view of Mary among millions of Catholics in Mexico in the 21st century. Pope John Paul II reinforced the localization of this view by permitting local Aztec dances during the ceremony in which he declared Juan Diego a saint, spoke in Nahuatl as part of the ceremony, called Juan Diego \"the talking eagle\" and asked him to show \"the way that leads to the \"Dark Virgin\" of Tepeyac\".\nThe view of the Virgin Mary as a \"miracle worker\" has existed for centuries and is still held by many Catholics in the 21st century. The legends of the miracles of the \"Maddona of Orsanmichele\" in Florence go back to the Renaissance. The legends of miracles performed by the image of the Black Madonna of Częstochowa also go back for centuries, and it continues to be venerated today as the Patron of Poland. Every year, millions of Catholic pilgrims visit the Basilica at Our Lady of Lourdes in search of miraculous cures. Although millions of Catholics hope for miracles on their pilgrimages, the Vatican has generally been reluctant to approve of modern miracles, unless they have been subject to extensive analysis.\n\nSince the end of the 19th century, a number of progressive and liberal perspectives of Mariology have been presented, ranging from feminist criticisms to interpretations based on modern psychology and liberal Catholic viewpoints. These views are generally critical of the Catholic approach to Mariology as well as the Eastern Orthodox church, which has even more Marian emphasis within its official liturgy.\n\nSome feminists contend that, as with other women saints such as Joan of Arc, the image of Mary is a construct of the patriarchal mind. They argue that Marian dogmas and doctrines and the typical forms of Marian devotion reinforce patriarchy by offering women temporary comfort from the ongoing oppression inflicted on them by male dominated churches and societies. In the feminist view, old gender stereotypes persist within traditional Marian teachings and theological doctrines. To that end books on feminist Mariology have been published to present opposing interpretations and perspectives.\n\nThe psychological analysis of Marian teachings dates back to Sigmund Freud, who used the title of a poem by Goethe in his 1911 paper \"Great is Diana of the Ephesians\". Carl Jung, on the other hand, viewed the Virgin Mary as a spiritual and more loving goddess version of Eros. A large number of other psychological interpretations have been presented through the years, ranging from the study of the similarities of the Virgin Mary and the Buddhist Goddess Tara, or the humble and loving figure presented by the East Asian Goddess Kwan Yin.\n\nSince the Reformation many Christians have opposed Marian venerations, and that trend has continued into the 21st century among progressive and liberal Christians, who see the high level of attention paid to the Virgin Mary both as being without sufficient grounding in Scripture and as distracting from the worship due to Christ.\n\nGroups of liberal Catholics view the traditional image of the Virgin Mary as presented by the Catholic Church as an obstacle towards realization of the goal of womanhood, and as a symbol of the systemic patriarchal oppression of women within the Church. Moreover, some liberal Catholics view the cultivation of the traditional image of Mary as a method of manipulation of Catholics at large by the Church hierarchy. Other liberal Christians argue that the modern concepts of equal opportunity for men and women does not resonate well with the humble image of Mary, obediently and subserviently kneeling before Christ.\n\nWhile Eastern-Rite Catholics belong to the Catholic Church and are also under the Pope's authority and hold the same theological beliefs as Latin-Rite Catholics, Eastern theology has a notably different emphasis on specific Marian beliefs. Furthermore, much of the literature and publications on Mariology and centers for its study have been related to the Latin Rite of the Church.\n\nThe traditional Eastern expression of this doctrine is the Dormition of the Theotokos which emphasises her falling asleep to be later assumed into heaven. The differences in these observances is for some Eastern Catholics superficial. However, Latin Catholics in general disagree with this eastern understanding. Notably, in the Coptic tradition, followed by Coptic Catholics and Coptic Orthodox, the Dormition and the Assumption of St Mary are observed at different times of year.\n\nThe doctrine of the Immaculate Conception is a teaching of Eastern origin but expressed in the terminology of the Western Church. The Western concept of the Virgin Mary being free from original sin as defined by St. Augustine of Hippo is not accepted in the East. However, Eastern Catholics recognized from ancient times that Mary was preserved by God from the contagion of original sin. Eastern Catholics while not observing the Latin-Rite holy day, have no difficulty affirming it or even dedicating their churches to the Virgin Mary under this title.\n\nThe formal study of Mariology within the circles associated with the Holy See took a major step forward between the Holy Year 1950 and 1958 based on the actions of Pope Pius XII, who authorized institutions for increased academic research into the veneration of the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nOf these organizations, the \"Marianum\" Pontifical Theological Faculty is the most active marilogical centre in Rome (www.marianum.it). This Pontifical Catholic Faculty was founded by Father Gabriel Roschini (who directed it for several years) under the direction of Pope Pius XII in 1950. At the Marianum, one can get a master's degree in Mariology (2-year academic program) and one can also get a doctorate in Mariology. This mariological facility has a library with more than 85,000 volumes on Mariology and a number of magazines and journals of theological and Mariological concern. \"Marianum\" is also the name of the prestigious journal of Marian theology, founded by Father Roschini in 1939.\n\nIn 1975, the University of Dayton in Ohio formed the International Marian Research Institute in affiliation with the Marianum to offer a doctorate in sacred theology (S.T.D.) and a licentiate in sacred theology (S.T.L.).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843596", "title": "Hymns to Mary", "text": "Hymns to Mary\n\nMarian hymns are Christian songs focused on the Virgin Mary. They are used in both devotional and liturgical services, particularly by the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutheran churches. They are often used in the month of May devotions. Some have also been adopted as Christmas hymns. Marian hymns are not popular among Protestants, as many Protestants see Marian veneration as idolatry. However, the practice is very common among Christians of Catholic traditions, and a key component of the Eastern Orthodox liturgy. There are many more hymns to Mary within the Eastern Orthodox yearly cycle of liturgy than in Roman Catholic liturgy.\n\nThe Magnificat hymn (song of the Virgin Mary) is one of the eight most ancient Christian hymns and historian Marjorie Reeves states that it is perhaps the earliest Christian hymn. The Magnificat is named after the opening line in the 4th century Vulgate Bible, based on , and continues to be widely used to date by Roman Catholics, Anglicans and the Eastern Orthodox.\n\nMarian hymns are at times shared among different groups of Christians, or are influenced by other hymns. For instance, The second stanza of the Anglican hymn Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones is derived from the Eastern Orthodox hymn to the Theotokos.\n\nMarian hymns may be analyzed to shed light on the Mariological approach within a given historical period, e.g. the Akathist to the Theotokos has been the subject of detailed study related to the Marian themes it presents within its various components.\n\nIn the Eastern Church, the \"Theotokia\" (i.e. hymns to the Theotokos) are an essential part of the Divine Liturgy. The positioning of Marian hymns in the Orthodox liturgical services effectively places the Theotokos in the most prominent place after Christ, in that the Theotokia immediately follow the hymns that praise Christ. In the Theotokia people repeat the name Mary many times as a sign of their close friendship with her, and as an expression of the desire to call her by her name. Parts of the Axion Estin hymn date back to the earliest days of Orthodoxy.\n\nIn the Eastern Church, the Theotokia often include biblical references that emphasize the mystery of the Incarnation. These Marian hymns have been used in daily prayers since early Christianity (they became part of liturgy later) as a way to teach people the Orthodox beliefs, and to prepare them against ideas considered heresies. Marian hymns remain a key element in the liturgy of the Coptic Church and are included in every canonical hour, day and night.\n\nThe widely used Akathist Hymn (meaning the unseated hymn) to the Theotokos (Mother of God) is attributed to Saint Romanos the Melodist who composed many (perhaps several hundred) hymns to saints during the 6th century. The attribution is not supported by recent scholarship, but Romanos did make a vital contribution to the Marian poetry in Constantinople. In the Orthodox weekly liturgical cycle, Wednesday is dedicated to the Theotokos, and all daily services include numerous Marian hymns. These take precedence over the veneration of other saints and angels.\n\nWhile the formations of the Divine Liturgy in the 6th and 7th centuries preceded the beginnings of the period of Byzantine Iconoclasm, it was perhaps during the 11th century that the Theotokia became part of the liturgical books of the Eastern Church. As of the 12th century an increasing number of diataxeis, giving the order of the liturgy included Marian hymns.\n\nBy the 13th century, Triodion liturgical books were combining references to icon veneration within hymns, e.g. \"...to those who honor your holy image, O reverend one, and with one accord proclaim you as the true Mother of God and faithfully venerate you\". Centuries later, the Sunday of Orthodoxy continues to combine Marian hymns and the veneration of icons in a manner that confirms the identity of Mary as the Theotokos.\n\nHymns, feasts and miraculous Marian icons are now combined within Eastern church practices, e.g. the Akathistos to the \"wonder working\" \"Theotokos Iverskaya\" (which has a feast day as well). Marian hymns, litanies and the veneration or Benediction of the icons of Mary are combined in the Maronite Church's, Benediction of the icon of the Virgin Mary. Here a \"hymn litany\" includes the repetition of the phrase: \"We petition you...\". This Marionite hymn litany has two parts: first the giving of praise to Mary, then the petitions.\n\nAccording to Saint Augustine, it was Saint Ambrose who, in the 4th century, introduced the use of hymns outside the liturgy of the Western Church. By the 8th century, popular hymns such as Ave Maris Stella had appeared as plainsong in Vespers and many other hymns were later based on them. Hymns to Mary began to flourish with the growing veneration of the Virgin Mary in the 11th and 12th centuries, and the Ave Maria became well established.\n\nMarian hymns in the Western Church grew even faster during the 13th century as the Franciscans began to compose a number of lasting hymns. Saint Francis began to improvise hymns of praise as he wandered the hills behind Assisi, begging for stones to restore the church of San Damiano. These developed into full hymns later. His \"Salutation to the Blessed Virgin Mary\" is a collection of greetings that form a litany of greetings to the Virgin Mary. Some of the most recognized hymns to Mary were composed by the followers of Francis of Assisi. Towards the end of the 13th century, the Franciscan Giacopone dei Todi, the author of \"Stabat Mater dolorosa\", composed \"Stabat Mater Speciosa\" about the joy of the Virgin Mary. Based on the Gospel accounts of the Nativity of Jesus, this was one of the tenderest hymns and is often considered one of the seven greatest Latin hymns.\n\nThe 13th century growth of Marian devotions was also witnessed in France, with the construction of Marian churches such as Notre Dame de Paris and the introduction of liturgical material such as offices. In this time frame poets and trouvères such as Jaque de Cambrai introduced a new range of Marian poems which were not simply devotional texts that affirmed a religious point of view, but had specific melodic components that allowed them to be sung with ease. By the end of the 13th century, Marian hymns constituted the greatest number of texts in the Montpellier Codex, the largest and most comprehensive extant manuscript of 13th century music.\n\nBy the 14th century, the Llibre Vermell de Montserrat from the Spanish monastery of Santa Maria de Montserrat included hymns in Catalan such as O Virgo Splendens (\"O Splendid Virgin\") and \"Laudemus Virginem\" (\"Let us praise the Virgin\").\n\nWhile a number of well known hymns to Mary exist, many local and regional Marian devotions have also inspired hymns that continue to be used along with specific festivals around the world. For instance, \"Reina de Cavite\" (i.e. Queen of Cavite) was composed by the Jesuits in Cavite City Philippines around 1689, and continues to be performed to date in local festivals for Our Lady of Solitude of Porta Vaga.\n\nSome hymns to Mary are also included in the Evangelical Lutheran Worship hymnal, e.g. hymn number 251 is \"My Soul Proclaims Your Greatness\", which is based on the Magnificat and hymn 419 is \"For All the Faithful Women\" in which the first stanza includes: \"We honor faithful Mary, fair maiden, full of grace\".\n\n\"Marian antiphons\" are a group of hymns in the Gregorian chant repertory of the Catholic Church, sung in honor of the Virgin Mary. Marian antiphons are not true \"antiphons\" in that they are not associated and chanted with a Psalm verse; in an attempt to avoid confusion the terms \"votive antiphons\" or \"breviary anthems\" are sometimes used instead.\n\nThe Marian Anthems are sung primarily by Roman Catholics particularly in religious communities after Compline. They are also used in Anglican communities where the traditional Divine Office is observed. Traditionally, they were also said after Lauds, and after each Hour when sung in choir, if the choir was then to disperse. These four antiphons were originally only performed in connection with psalms, but have been used as detached chants since 1239.\n\nAlthough there are a number of Marian antiphons, some of great antiquity, the term is most often used to refer to the four hymns which have been used as detached chants since 1239:\n\nThere have been exceptions to this schedule in different monastic traditions over the years, e.g. the Benedictine monasteries were using them in the 14th century. In current usage the liturgical year is divided into four periods, with each period associated with one of the four Marian antiphons, which is sung at the end of Compline or Vespers during that period. For example, \"Alma Redemptoris Mater\" is sung from the first Sunday in Advent until February 2.\n\nThe four Marian antiphons (with occasional variations in the text) are often set to polyphonic music for choir or as solo arias. The Gregorian melodies exist both in elaborate solemn forms and simple versions.\n\nSome Catholic hymns (by first line) are as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843601", "title": "Radyvyliv", "text": "Radyvyliv\n\nRadyvýliv (; ; ; ) is a small city in Rivne Oblast (region) of western Ukraine. It is the administrative center of Radyvyliv Raion (district), and is located south-west of the oblast capital, Rivne, near European route E40. The nearest larger cities are Dubno, and Brody; the latter being away. In Soviet times, from 1939 to 1992, the city was known as Chervonoarmiysk (, ). Population: \n\nIn the 14th century, together with whole Volhynia, Radyvyliv was annexed by the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Following the 1569 Union of Lublin, the town was transferred to the Kingdom of Poland, where it remained for over 200 years. As a result of the Partitions of Poland, Radziwiłłow, as it was called, became part of the Russian Empire.\n\nDuring the January Uprising, a unit of Jozef Wysocki operated in the area of Radyvyliv. After World War I, the town returned to Poland, and was part of Dubno County, Volhynian Voivodeship. Its residents were Jewish (50%), Ukrainian (31%), and Polish (17%). During the Volhynian Genocide, ethnic Poles from villages in the area fled to the town, to escape Ukrainian nationalists. Almost all those who survived the slaughter left Radyvyliv, and settled in the People's Republic of Poland’s Recovered Territories.\n\nPrevious to the Soviets renaming the town Chervonoarmiysk, it was known as Radziwillow. In the late 1800s, the Jewish population reached 4,000. Between World War I and the civil war between Ukrainian nationalists and Bolsheviks, the Jewish population declined to around 2,000. Various events in World War II caused the remaining Jews to escape elsewhere or be killed by Ukrainian police or German troops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843605", "title": "Rice distribution", "text": "Rice distribution\n\nIn probability theory, the Rice distribution or Rician distribution (or, less commonly, Ricean distribution) is the probability distribution of the magnitude of a circular bivariate normal random variable with potentially non-zero mean. It was named after Stephen O. Rice.\n\nThe probability density function is\nwhere \"I\"(\"z\") is the modified Bessel function of the first kind with order zero.\n\nIn the context of Rician fading, the distribution is often also rewritten using the \"Shape Parameter\" formula_2, defined as the ratio of the power contributions by line-of-sight path to the remaining multipaths, and the \"Scale parameter\" formula_3, defined as the total power received in all paths.\n\nThe characteristic function of the Rice distribution is given as:\n\nwhere formula_5 is one of Horn's confluent hypergeometric functions with two variables and convergent for all finite values of formula_6 and formula_7. It is given by:\n\nwhere\n\nis the rising factorial.\n\nThe first few raw moments are:\n\nand, in general, the raw moments are given by\n\nHere \"L\"(\"x\") denotes a Laguerre polynomial:\n\nwhere formula_18 is the confluent hypergeometric function of the first kind. When \"k\" is even, the raw moments become simple polynomials in σ and \"ν\", as in the examples above.\n\nFor the case \"q\" = 1/2:\n\nThe second central moment, the variance, is\n\nNote that formula_21 indicates the square of the Laguerre polynomial formula_22, not the generalized Laguerre polynomial formula_23\n\n\n\n\nFor large values of the argument, the Laguerre polynomial becomes\n\nIt is seen that as \"ν\" becomes large or σ becomes small the mean becomes \"ν\" and the variance becomes σ.\n\nThe transition to a Gaussian approximation proceeds as follows. From Bessel function theory we have\nso, in the large formula_50 region, an asymptotic expansion of the Rician distribution:\n\nMoreover, when the density is concentrated around formula_52 and formula_53 because of the Gaussian exponent, we can also write formula_54 and finally get the Normal approximation\nThe approximation becomes usable for formula_56\n\nThere are three different methods for estimating the parameters of the Rice distribution, (1) method of moments, (2) method of maximum likelihood, and (3) method of least squares. In the first two methods the interest is in estimating the parameters of the distribution, ν and σ, from a sample of data. This can be done using the method of moments, e.g., the sample mean and the sample standard deviation. The sample mean is an estimate of μ and the sample standard deviation is an estimate of μ.\n\nThe following is an efficient method, known as the \"Koay inversion technique\". for solving the estimating equations, based on the sample mean and the sample standard deviation, simultaneously . This inversion technique is also known as the fixed point formula of SNR. Earlier works on the method of moments usually use a root-finding method to solve the problem, which is not efficient.\n\nFirst, the ratio of the sample mean to the sample standard deviation is defined as \"r\", i.e., formula_57. The fixed point formula of SNR is expressed as\n\nwhere formula_59 is the ratio of the parameters, i.e., formula_60, and formula_61 is given by:\n\nwhere formula_63 and formula_64 are modified Bessel functions of the first kind.\n\nNote that formula_65 is a scaling factor of formula_66 and is related to formula_67 by:\n\nTo find the fixed point, formula_69, of formula_70, an initial solution is selected, formula_71, that is greater than the lower bound, which is formula_72 and occurs when formula_73 (Notice that this is the formula_57 of a Rayleigh distribution). This provides a starting point for the iteration, which uses functional composition, and this continues until formula_75 is less than some small positive value. Here, formula_76 denotes the composition of the same function, formula_77, formula_78 times. In practice, we associate the final formula_79 for some integer formula_80 as the fixed point, formula_81, i.e., formula_82.\n\nOnce the fixed point is found, the estimates formula_39 and formula_66 are found through the scaling function, formula_65, as follows:\n\nand\n\nTo speed up the iteration even more, one can use the Newton's method of root-finding. This particular approach is highly efficient.\n\n\nThe multivariate Rician model is used in the analysis of diversity receivers in radio communications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843613", "title": "Boston Township, Summit County, Ohio", "text": "Boston Township, Summit County, Ohio\n\nBoston Township is one of the nine townships of Summit County, Ohio, United States, about 23 miles south of Cleveland. The 2000 census found 1,664 people in the township, 1,062 of whom lived in the unincorporated portions of the township.\n\nLocated in the northern part of the county, it borders the following townships and municipalities:\n\nTwo villages are located in Boston Township: most of Boston Heights, in the northeast, and Peninsula, in the center. Peninsula is still part of the township but Boston Heights is separate. Cuyahoga Falls annexed an area along State Road and Northfield Center has the Brandywine area due to annexation when Northfield Center was part of Northfield Village .\n\nIt occupies most of survey Town 4, Range 11 in the Connecticut Western Reserve.\n\nNamed by James Stanford after Boston, Massachusetts, it is the only Boston Township statewide.\n\nIt has also been coined as \"Helltown\" due to certain conspiracy theories involving the town\n\nBoston Township was established in 1811. Boston Township's land has been in the following counties:\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nBoston Township is served by Interstate 271, which has an exit onto State Route 303 at the border with Richfield Township, and by State Route 303, which goes east–west through the middle of the township. The Ohio Turnpike (Interstate 80) passes through the township without any exits.\n\nSchooling for the township is provided by Woodridge Local School District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843614", "title": "Rhaeticus", "text": "Rhaeticus\n\nRhaeticus can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1843620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843620", "title": "Douglas Dolphin", "text": "Douglas Dolphin\n\nThe Douglas Dolphin was an amphibious flying boat. While only 58 were built, they served a wide variety of roles: private 'air yacht', airliner, military transport, and search and rescue.\nThe Dolphin originated in 1930 as the \"Sinbad,\" a pure flying boat without wheels. The Sinbad was intended as a luxurious flying yacht. Undaunted by the lack of demand, Douglas improved the Sinbad in 1931 so that it was amphibious, and could land on water or land. The improved aircraft was named \"Dolphin\", however this did not represent the end of development, as many detail improvements were made, including an increase in the length of over a foot and changes made to the empennage, engine nacelles and wings. The Great Depression had curtailed demand for such extravagance as a \"flying yacht\", but Douglas managed to interest the United States Coast Guard who not only bought the Sinbad, but 12 Dolphins.\n\nThe first two were purchased by Wilmington-Catalina Airlines to fly passengers between Los Angeles and Santa Catalina Island, becoming the first successful Douglas airliners. Subsequent examples were ordered by the United States Navy and U.S. Coast Guard for use as transports and search and rescue craft. The U.S. Army Air Corps ordered several under the designations C-21, C-26, and C-29. Many were eventually ordered for their original purpose as luxury transports. Owners included William Boeing, the founder of the Boeing Company, and Philip K. Wrigley, the son of the founder of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company. William K. Vanderbilt bought two with custom interiors for use from the Vanderbilt yacht Alva as flying tenders.\n\nOne was procured by the U.S. Navy as a transport for President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Although never used by Roosevelt, this was the first aircraft procured to provide transportation for the President of the United States.\n\nIn 1933, landing in heavy seas, the USCG RD-4 undertook some rescues of merchant sailors at sea, feats that made spectacular news reports, enthralling the American public.\n\n\"Data from:McDonnell Douglas Aircraft since 1920 Vol.1\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1843623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843623", "title": "Humanistic sociology", "text": "Humanistic sociology\n\nHumanistic sociology is a domain of sociology which originated mainly from the work of the University of Chicago Polish philosopher-turned-sociologist, Florian Znaniecki. It is a methodology which treats its objects of study and its students, that is, humans, as composites of values and systems of values. In certain contexts, the term is related to other sociological domains such as antipositivism. Humanistic sociology seeks to shed light on questions such as, \"What is the relationship between a man of principle and a man of opportunism?\"\n\nHumanistic sociology is a domain of sociology that grew from antipositivism. It originated from the initial work of Florian Witold Znaniecki and W. I. Thomas who co-authored \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\". Thomas, due to his multi-ethnic background, was fluent in Polish. He developed the \"life-history\" methodology, where data is obtained from letters and other materials, such as the archives of the Polish Emigrants Protective Association, of which Znaniecki was a director. Znaniecki was a philosopher who opposed idealism and naturalism, proposing instead a methodology for social research based around the \"humanistic coefficient\", sometimes known as the humanist principle. The outbreak of World War I led Znaniecki to join Thomas at Chicago.\n\nUnfortunately for Thomas, he encountered political problems, ending his career as an academic. However, he went on to produce important works at the New School for Social Research, working with other notable scholars, such as Harold Laski. As a result, his role in the origins of Humanistic sociology is often understated.\n\nZnaniecki went on to a distinguished academic career, taking the chair of sociology at the University of Poznan where he founded the Polish Sociological Institute. Fortunately for Znaniecki, at the outbreak of World War II, he was a visiting professor at Columbia University. Thus, he was spared the tragic history of his motherland. He became a professor at the University of Illinois, where he stayed until his death in 1958. His mantle passed to his gifted student, Stanisław Ossowski, who revived the Polish Sociological Institute after it had been liquidated by Stalinist authorities in 1951 (as the Polish Sociological Association). Ossowski maintained the noted and considerable resistance by Znaniecki to the \"ideological control of science\".\n\nAnalytic induction is a method of social research that is inductive, where theories and concepts are modified as a result of doing research (see scientific method). The philosophical foundations of analytic induction originate from Aristotle and his concept of induction. Analytic induction can be thought of as a phenomenological process, that is the phenomena cannot occur or be understood separate from the process. Similar to the Socratic Method or Karl Popper's falsification, the researcher sets out to disprove his theory by maximizing the chance of producing negative evidence. Analytic induction was Znaniecki's answer to the problem of induction. Znaniecki believed analytic induction was a new process for conducting social research that is capable of universal and precise results.\n\nThere is a debate between two competing schools of sociological thought, Structuralism and Functionalism. This debate is inherited from the European philosophical roots of humanistic sociology: Husserl's attempt via reflexion to extract the essence of experience as opposed to Heidegger's existential phenomenology. While each school lays claim to legitimate theory, each leads to quite different approaches when interpreting the results of research and developing conclusions. The genesis of the debate relates to the primacy of the Conceptual objects involved. Does a researcher consider the structural objects and their relation to the system as a priority, or does the researcher consider the function of the object as the priority? The problems found in each school will lead to static analysis.\n\nZnaniecki's model was derived independently of Max Weber and Émile Durkheim. The concept of \"agency\" derived by Claude Lévi-Strauss provided the foundations for structuralism and the later work of sociologists such as Pierre Bourdieu. Structuralists influenced by humanistic sociology will interpret data in terms of opposing valuations, contrasts, and relations. Interpretation of the data must be contextual. Structuralism allows for a realist analysis (structures represent an organized reality) in relation to the larger social system. By understanding the larger social system, you are differentiating from post-modernism, which seeks to describe society by its lack of structure, or fragmentation.\n\nFunctionalists seek an objective understanding of the social world. They have a more positivist view of social science, believing objective results can be obtained by techniques like surveys and interviews. They discount the inherent bias of the intellectual, believing their results are value-free. Functionalism grew from the work of Max Weber and Émile Durkheim. Functionalism was popular in the US during the period from 1930 to 1960. Humanistic sociology had a role in the decline of functionalism. This can be seen in the rise of later models which returned to a focus of the subjective nature of human experience, for example, the later popularity of post-modern thinking highlighting the subjective basis of semantics. Humanistic sociology also differentiates itself from functionalism in promoting the need for freedom of thinking in the practices of research. Functionalists reject the idea of a realist or structural analysis, seeking instead a more observable explanation with external validation outside the social system.\n\nSome functionalists actually regard themselves as proponents of structural functionalism. Structural functionalism is close to humanistic sociology in its understanding of society as shared norms and values. Structural functionalism arose from functionalism in the attempt to explain the dominance of some social groups over others, known as conflict theory. Conflict theory contradicts functionalism. Structural functionalism is usually associated with the work of Talcott Parsons. Again humanistic sociology had a role in the decline of structural functionalism. In the humanistic model, there exist dynamical systems of values obtained from social actions in an evolutionary sense.\n\nMany will claim that symbolic interactionism has grown directly from the work of Thomas and Znaniecki. Symbolic interactionism grew out of structural functionalism. Symbolic interactionism views society as consisting of interactions among individuals. Hence the focus on individuals and the organization and patterns found in their everyday activities. It seeks to deal with problems like identity. Problems found in symbolic interactionism, such as inadequate analysis of social structure, led to a fork in the road of social science. The school of sociology most influenced by the humanistic model developed by Znaniecki and Thomas led to the development of ethnomethodology. The other branch led to post-modernism via poststructuralism.\n\nEthnomethodology and the social anthropology of Pierre Bourdieu are probably the best representation of the initial work of Znaniecki and his model of culture as a system of values. In a sense humanistic sociology has transcended the structure vs function debate, focusing instead on the value-based world of culture. A researcher working as a humanistic sociologist has a scientific objectification of values. Using analytic induction in the context of the humanistic coefficient, not unduly influenced by questions of structure or function, an objective order for the social world is found. That the character of this social world is derived from sociological sources does not discount a scientific conclusion. A humanistic sociologist models the experience of humanity as the span of social action. A humanistic sociologist derives a dual structure for this space from axiological constructions mapped by symbolic expressions. A humanistic sociologist will follow the path pointed to by Znaniecki and reject the naturalistic view.\n\nPost-modernism, by its emphasis on subjectivity, implies that no one set of values is any better than any other (This is criticised by some as moral relativism). It is however quite possible to equate a scientific analysis of value systems with post-modernism. The analysis of globalisation is one such application of the analysis within post-modernism. By a focus on the subjective nature of experience, a humanistic sociologist can be a post-modern thinker. However a humanistic sociologist has core values and beliefs with which it is possible to assign a positive or negative evaluation to a value, for example, the priority of the \"inner dignity of man\". Just as in the practices of humanistic research or humanistic social work, a value is positive to the extent that it leads to creative and constructive social activity. It is therefore wrong to equate post-modernism with humanistic sociology, which above all seeks an irreducible representation of the human world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843625", "title": "GNC (store)", "text": "GNC (store)\n\nGNC Holdings Inc. (General Nutrition Centers) is a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based American company selling health and nutrition related products, including vitamins, supplements, minerals, herbs, sports nutrition, diet, and energy products.\n\nIn 1935, David Shakarian opened a small health food store, Lackzoom, in downtown Pittsburgh. He made US$35 on his first day and was able to open a second store within six months. A year later, Shakarian suffered from what appeared to be a fatal blow when the Ohio River flooded into downtown on St. Patrick's Day. Both of his stores were wiped out. But he opened a new store the next year and later began a mail-order business, shipping health foods and later vitamins and prescription drugs throughout the country. Major expansion began in the 1960s. Shakarian said the physical fitness movement, anxiety about smoking and the growth shopping centers brought success to his business venture. In the 1960s, the company changed the name of its outlets to General Nutrition Centers. He stepped down as chief executive officer in February 1984 but continued as chairman until his death later that year. Shakarian took GNC public (listed on the NYSE) in the 1980s. Gary Daum was named chief executive office in February 1984. In May 1985, Jerry Horn took on the role.\n\nIn 1990 the company considered relocating but a public/private effort retained GNC headquarters in Downtown Pittsburgh. GNC was taken private and sold to The Thomas Lee Company, a PE investment/management fund in the late 1980s. Thomas Lee ran GNC and took it public prior to selling the company to Royal Dutch Numico and Numico acquired GNC in 1999; it sold GNC to Apollo Management in 2003. Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan and Ares Management bought GNC in 2007. GNC went public in 2011.\n\nIn 2018, Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Holding Co., a company controlled by the Chinese government, agreed to acquire an approximately 40% stake in GNC.\n\nIn June 2019, the company announced they would be shuttering 900 mall locations in 2020 due to slumping sales.\n\nGNC stores typically stock a wide range of weight loss, bodybuilding, nutritional supplements, vitamins, natural remedies, and health and beauty products, in both its owned brands as well as third-party brands. \n\nAs of December 31, 2018, GNC had approximately 8,400 locations, of which approximately 6,200 retail locations are in the United States (including approximately 2,200 Rite Aid licensed store-within-a-store locations) and franchise operations in approximately 50 countries. \n\nIn July 2019, it was announced that GNC plans to close up to 900 retail locations, primarily those located within shopping malls.\n\nOf GNC’s approximately 4,100 U.S. locations, 61% are in strip centers and 28% are in malls. GNC products are available on GNC.com, and as of January 2017 are also available on GNC’s Amazon Marketplace.\n\nIn 1998, GNC was accused of purposely running its franchisees out of business in order to \"retake\" the stores into corporate control. An April 30, 2003 article states that the GNC corporate company was sued by numerous franchise owners. The complaint is that the parent company was allowing their corporate owned stores to sell products for less than the franchise stores are allowed to sell them for. The suit also claimed that GNC charged high \"reset fees\" to franchisees when there is new signage that needs to be changed in the store or an image facelift that must be done by GNC corporate. A similar lawsuit was filed again in an article written on October 20, 2004.\n\nIn February 2015, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sent cease and desist letters to GNC and other major retailers due to concerning laboratory tests regarding the accuracy of the claimed contents of supplements. GNC shortly afterwards removed some stock from sales while working with the Attorney General. In September 2016, GNC, the New York Office of the Attorney General, and other supplement retailers ultimately came to an agreement and retailers are now accomplishing more robust testing of supplements to ensure accurate labeling.\n\nIn October 2015, the Attorney General of Oregon filed a lawsuit against GNC alleging that the company knowingly sold products containing the ingredients picamilon and BMPEA, which are banned by the FDA.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, GNC threatened to sue the Fox Broadcasting Company for \"significant economic and reputational damages, lost opportunities, and consequential damages\", after an advertisement for the chain was blocked from airing during Super Bowl LI. Despite repeated approvals by Fox, the network stated that the ad had been vetoed by the National Football League because of GNC's placement on an NFLPA blacklist for selling products that contain substances banned by the NFL. The letter of intent claimed that Fox had not informed them of any such rules when they purchased the ad time, and cited that the purchase induced them to \"spend millions of dollars in production costs and in the development of a national, coordinated marketing and rebranding campaign\" around the commercial. The NFL itself does not prohibit ads for health stores unless they contain references to specific prohibited products; the GNC ad only contained motivational themes and no references to its products.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843628", "title": "Battle of Big Mound", "text": "Battle of Big Mound\n\nThe Battle of Big Mound was a United States Army victory in July 1863 over the Santee Sioux Indians allied with some Yankton, Yanktonai and Teton Sioux in Dakota Territory.\n\nThe defeat of Little Crow in the Dakota War of 1862 caused the widespread dispersion of the Santee Sioux or Eastern Dakota. Of the 6,300 Santee, 2,000 were taken prisoner. About 700 of the Lower Sioux from the Mdewakanton and Wahpekute bands remained at large. Most of the 4,000 Upper Sioux from the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands, who had been reluctant participants in the war, also remained free. A few of these refugees from the war fled to Canada, but more than 4,000 congregated in the summer of 1863 in a large encampment in present-day Kidder County, North Dakota. They were joined in the camp by an unknown, but probably sizeable, number of their Teton, Yankton, and Yanktonai relatives.\n\nDespite the defeat, however, Santee raids continued in 1863, resulting in more than a dozen white deaths in Minnesota. To protect the frontier, Henry Hastings Sibley, appointed brigadier general of volunteers, was ordered by his superior, General John Pope, to lead a military expedition to punish the Santee. On June 16 Sibley departed from near Fort Ridgely and marched into the Dakota Territory. His army initially numbered 3,320 men, the largest military force ever assembled to combat Indians.\n\nSibley's ponderous column proceeded very slowly northwestward, hampered by drought, heat, and a lack of potable water. After a month of travel without having seen a single Indian, Sibley was informed by a group of buffalo hunters, mostly Métis Chippewa, of the location of a large Santee encampment of 600 lodges. With a stripped-down army of 2,056 men – 1,436 infantry, 520 cavalry, and 100 artillery plus 60 mixed blood and Sioux scouts – Sibley located the Santee encampment on July 24. He halted nearby and sent scout and interpreter Joseph LaFramboise, one-half Sioux, to the Indian camp to propose a meeting with Upper Sioux leader Standing Buffalo. Sibley believed, probably correctly, that Standing Buffalo and his followers favored peace with the whites. However, Inkpaduta, believed to be implacably hostile to whites, and his band were also in the Indian camp.\n\nAnticipating a meeting between Sibley and Standing Buffalo, a group of Sioux and Sibley's scouts gathered peacefully on a hill, called Big Mound, 300 to 400 yards from Sibley's camp. An army surgeon, Dr. Josiah S. Weiser, approached Big Mound to greet several Indian friends, but was suddenly shot and killed by Tall Crown, a follower of Inkpaduta. The scouts and the Sioux opened fire on each other and the battle began.\n\nSibley estimated that he faced 1,000 to 1,500 Indian warriors. They took cover behind hills and in ravines. Sibley sent forward two companies of Mounted Rangers to drive the Indians away from Big Mound and supported them with more soldiers and a six-pounder cannon. On reaching the top of Big Mound, Sibley could see the Indian warriors retreating, guarding the women and children of the Indian camp fleeing westward with their possessions. The Santee were poorly armed. Only about one half had firearms and those had little ammunition.\n\nSeveral hundred of the Mounted Rangers pursued the Indian warriors, protecting the flight of their women and children, until nightfall. Most of Sibley's infantry devoted themselves to destroying the large quantities of jerky, buffalo robes, cooking utensils, and other goods left behind by the Sioux in their hasty flight.\n\nSibley intended for the Rangers to continue the pursuit of the Sioux the next day, camping where they were for the night. However, by a mistaken order, the Rangers were ordered instead to return to their base, 12 miles from where they were. They arrived exhausted and Sibley was forced to rest his soldiers and horses the next day, July 25, before continuing his pursuit on July 26. Sibley's casualties for the day were three dead and four wounded. In Sibley's official report he estimated that 80 Indians had been killed and wounded, but his diary said that only 9 were killed.\n\nThe Sioux seemed to have little stomach to fight Sibley. Standing Buffalo may have surrendered his followers en masse if not for the killing of the army surgeon which precipitated this battle, The Battles of Dead Buffalo Lake and Stony Lake soon followed as Sibley pursued the Sioux westward.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843638", "title": "Mosque of Ibn Tulun", "text": "Mosque of Ibn Tulun\n\nThe Mosque of Ibn Tulun () is located in Cairo, Egypt. It is the oldest mosque in Egypt as well as the whole of Africa surviving in its full original form, and is the largest mosque in Cairo in terms of land area. Since Ibn Tulun Mosque has much open space, it boasts both sunlight and shadows. It is built around an open square courtyard which allows natural light to travel through. Ibn Tulun Mosque features Samarra style - its decorations being created from carved stucco and wood. This mosque is a popular tourist attraction.\n\nThe mosque was commissioned under the rule of Ahmad ibn Tulun, the Abbassid governor of Egypt from 868–884 whose rule was characterized by de facto independence. It was designed by the prominent Egyptian architect, Saiid Ibn Kateb Al-Farghany, who was a Christian Orthodox, the same engineer who designed the Nilometer.\nThe historian al-Maqrizi lists the mosque's construction start date as 876 AD, and the mosque's original inscription slab identifies the date of completion as . \n\nThe mosque was constructed on a small hill called Gebel Yashkur, \"The Hill of Thanksgiving.\" One local legend says that it is here that Noah's Ark came to rest after the Deluge, rather than at Mount Ararat.The mosque has been used for several purposes. One such purpose is it was used as a shelter for pilgrims from North Africa to the Hijaz in the 12th century.\n\nThe grand congregational mosque was intended to be the focal point of Ibn Tulun's capital, al-Qata'i, which served as the center of administration for the Tulunid dynasty. Originally the mosque backed onto Ibn Tulun's palace, and a door next to the minbar allowed him direct entry to the mosque. Al-Qata'i was razed in the early 10th century AD, and the mosque is the only surviving structure.\nThe mosque was constructed in the Samarran style common with Abbasid constructions. It is constructed around a courtyard, with one covered hall on each of the four sides, the largest being on the side of the qibla, or direction of Mecca. The original mosque had a fountain (fauwara) in the middle of the sahn, covered a gilt dome supported by ten marble columns, and round it were 16 marble columns and a marble pavement. Under the dome there was a great basin of marble 4 cubits in diameter with a jet of marble in the centre. A distinctive sabil with a high drum dome was added in the central courtyard at the end of the thirteenth century by Mamluk Sultan Lajin instead of the \"fauwara\". \"(see also Chahartaq (architecture))\"\n\nThe interior arched windows provides natural light against the hollow dome. Each pointed arch has a window and is designed with plain geometric design.\nThere is significant controversy over the date of construction of the minaret, which features a helical outer staircase similar to that of the famous minaret in Samarra (itself inspired by a pre-Islamic structure in Firuzabad, Persia). It is also told that using these stairs one can climb up on a horse. Legend has it that Ibn Tulun himself was accidentally responsible for the design of the structure: supposedly while sitting with his officials, he absentmindedly wound a piece of parchment around his finger. When someone asked him what he was doing, he responded, embarrassed, that he was designing his minaret. Many of the architectural features, however, point to a later construction, in particular the way in which the minaret does not connect well with the main mosque structure, something that would have been averted had the minaret and mosque been built at the same time. Architectural historian Doris Behrens-Abouseif asserts that Sultan Lajin, who restored the mosque in 1296, was responsible for the construction of the current minaret.\n\nThe minaret is modeled after the minarets of Samarra, with a spiral staircase around the outside.\n\nIt is built entirely of well-fired red brick, plaster, and carved stucco. Stucco is cement-based plaster that is mixed on-site and applied wet which hardens to a very dense solid. The mosque is also built from this material. The staircase extends up to the tower 170 feet in height.\n\nThere are six prayer niches (\"mihrab\") at the mosque, five of which are flat as opposed to the main concave niche. It indicates the qibla which the profession of faith inscripted in Kufic calligraphy.\n\n\nDuring the medieval period, several houses were built up against the outside walls of the mosque. Most were demolished in 1928 by the Committee for the Conservation of Arab Monuments, however, two of the oldest and best-preserved homes were left intact. The \"house of the Cretan woman\" (\"Bayt al-Kritliyya\") and the \"Beit Amna bint Salim\", were originally two separate structures, but a bridge at the third floor level was added at some point, combining them into a single structure. The house, accessible through the outer walls of the mosque, is open to the public as the Gayer-Anderson Museum, named after the British general R.G. 'John' Gayer-Anderson, who lived there until 1942.\n\nThe ziyada or empty space between the walls is approximately 26,318 sq m Outside the mosque you can see several houses were built up against the outside walls of the mosque. The topography of the mosque is surrounded by a very busy city.\n\nThe mosque has been restored several times. The first known restoration was in 1077 under orders of the Fatimid vizier Badr al-Jamali. Sultan Lajin's restoration of 1296 added several improvements. The mosque was most recently restored by the Egyptian Supreme Council of Antiquities in 2004.\n\nParts of the James Bond film \"The Spy Who Loved Me\" were filmed at the mosque. The mosque is featured in the game \"\", forming a significant part of the game's third level. It is also featured in a level of \"\", where Lara Croft has to trap a minotaur inside the mosque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1843643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843643", "title": "Mary Fielding Smith", "text": "Mary Fielding Smith\n\nMary Fielding Smith Kimball (July 21, 1801 – September 21, 1852) was an early member of the Latter Day Saint movement, the second wife of Latter Day Saint leader Hyrum Smith, and the mother of Joseph F. Smith, who became president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).\n\nMary Fielding was born in Honeydon (Honidon), Bedfordshire, England, on July 21, 1801. She was the sixth child of John Fielding and Rachel Ibbotson, who were active in the growing Methodist movement in the area. In 1834, Mary emigrated to join her brother Joseph and her sister Mercy in Toronto, Upper Canada.\n\nThe three Fielding siblings were introduced to the Church of the Latter Day Saints in 1836 by their good friend. John Taylor. Taylor and his wife were in the same congregation as the Fieldings, all of whom were \"disenchanted Methodists\". On a trip to Toronto, John Taylor came in contact with LDS missionary Parley P. Pratt and shortly after brought Pratt to meet the Fieldings. They were baptized on May 21, 1836 in a creek near their home. Mary, John, and Mercy moved to Kirtland, Ohio, the following spring to join the larger body of the church.\n\nWell educated, Mary earned a living through teaching school, tutoring private pupils and acting as a governess. At the suggestion of the church's president, Joseph Smith, the recently widowed Hyrum Smith courted Mary Fielding and the couple married on December 24, 1837. Mary accepted the responsibility of caring for and raising Hyrum's children from his first marriage, including the future church patriarch John Smith.\n\nIn March 1838, Hyrum was among the church leaders taken to prison by the Missouri militia. At this time, Smith was pregnant with her first child, Joseph. Smith went to Quincy, Illinois, with the remaining church members and, after Hyrum escaped from jail, they moved to Nauvoo, Illinois (also known as Commerce). Their second child, Martha, was born in Illinois.\n\nAfter Hyrum was killed in 1844, Smith chose to follow the direction of Brigham Young and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. She and her family were among the poorer church members driven out of Nauvoo in the fall of 1846, who experienced the incident later known as the \"miracle of the quails\". She went to Winter Quarters and then on to the Salt Lake Valley.\n\nOne story recounts Smith's trip across the plains with Heber C. Kimball's pioneer company. One of the captains, Cornelius P. Lott, questioned her preparation and suggested she stay behind and wait for others to help her: he called her a burden to the whole company. In response, Smith said that she would not only stay with the company but would arrive in the Salt Lake Valley before Lott and without any of his help. She reportedly arrived in the Valley one day before Lott. She would eventually marry Heber C. Kimball.\n\nOn September 21, 1852, Smith died in Salt Lake City, Utah Territory, at the home of her second husband, Heber C. Kimball, apparently of pneumonia. She was buried at Salt Lake City Cemetery. Although she was widely known and respected during her lifetime, her son, Joseph F. Smith, further enhanced her reputation after her death as he presented her as a role model of courage and faithfulness in public addresses, sermons and articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843652", "title": "Three Places in New England", "text": "Three Places in New England\n\nThe Three Places in New England (Orchestral Set No. 1) is a composition for orchestra in three movements by American composer Charles Ives. It was written mainly between 1911 and 1914, but with sketches dating as far back as 1903 and last revisions made in 1929. The work is celebrated for its use of musical quotation and paraphrasing. \n\nThe movements (in Ives's preferred slow-fast-slow sequence, longest first and shortest last) are:\nLasting just under twenty minutes, \"Three Places in New England\" has become one of Ives's most performed compositions. It exhibits signature traits of his style: layered textures with multiple, sometimes simultaneous melodies, many of which are recognizable hymn or marching tunes; masses of sound, including tone clusters; and sudden, sharp textural contrasts. Each “place” is in New England. Each is intended to make the listener experience a unique atmosphere, as if there. To this end, the paraphrasing of American folk tunes is an important device, providing tangible reference points and making the music accessible despite its avant-garde chromaticism. \"Three Places in New England\" aims to paint a picture of American ideals, lifestyle and patriotism at the turn of the 20th century.\n\n\"Three Places in New England\" was composed between 1903 and 1929. The set was completed in 1914 but was later revised for performance in 1929. The second piece, \"Putnam’s Camp, Redding, Connecticut\" was created from two short theater orchestra pieces composed by Ives in 1903. These pieces, \"\"Country Band\" March\" and \"Overture\" & \"March: \"1776\"\", were completed in 1904. Lyman Brewster, Ives' uncle, had asked him to compose the pieces for his play \"Major John Andre\" which was never performed due to Brewster's untimely death. In the early fall of 1912, Ives began tinkering with these compositions again. The satisfaction that Ives derived from working on the \"Fourth of July\" (the third movement of his ), in which he used the trio (or middle) section of \"1776\", may have been the catalyst for inspiring him to reuse these lost songs and create a longer piece. By October, Ives had completed an ink score-sketch of \"Putnam's Camp\". The final version of the piece clearly resembles its source materials, but many of the complex musical jokes that littered the originals had been replaced with simpler alternatives.\n\n\"The Housatonic at Stockbridge\", the third piece in the set, was composed in 1911 along with the opening movement. By 1912, after finishing \"Putnam's Camp\", Ives had settled on the form of a three-movement orchestral set and had written the majority of it.\n\nIn 1929, Nicolas Slonimsky, conductor of the Boston Chamber Orchestra at that time, contacted Ives about the possibility of performing \"Three Places\". Slonimsky had been urged by American composer Henry Cowell, Ives' contemporary, to program an Ives piece for some time and \"Three Places\" caught his attention.\n\nThe thorough reworking required to transform \"Three Places\" from an orchestral score to one that could be performed by a much smaller chamber orchestra renewed Ives' interest in the work. Slonimsky required that the piece be rescored for 1 flute, 1 oboe, 1 English horn, 1 clarinet, 1 bassoon, 2 horns, 2 trumpets, 1 trombone, 1 percussionist, 1 piano, 7 violins, 2 violas, 2 cellos and 1 string bass, a much smaller orchestra than the original. Ives was glad to have his piece played, but his comments on the rescoring include, on the full score of \"The Housatonic at Stockbridge\", \"piano may be used for Bassoons throughout… a poor substitute….\"\n\n\"Three Places\" was first performed on February 16, 1930 under Slonimsky's direction before the American Committee of the International Society for Contemporary Music in New York City. Although it had been rehearsed only once, the Committee was sufficiently impressed to recommend the work to the International Society, which surprisingly turned it down for performance at its festival. The first public performance was scheduled for January 10, 1931. Ives himself attended – in fact, he was funding the concert himself. The performance received mild applause, and Ives congratulated the performers backstage – \"Just like a town meeting – every man for himself. Wonderful how it came out!\".\n\nAfter the mild success of the first performance, Slonimsky and Ives were inspired to take \"Three Places\" abroad. Slonimsky conducted the work in Paris on June 6 at a concert he described as \"absolutely extraordinary\" because so many important composers and critics of the time were in the audience. Their first experience of Ives left them impressed: Ives' music was not just interesting because it was composed by an American, it also fascinated them because the music really described America. Although the listeners didn't understand all the cultural references, Ives was calling attention to American ideals, issues, experiences and perspectives. For instance, in \"The \"St. Gaudens\"\", Ives paraphrases ragtime, slave plantation songs such as \"Old Black Joe\" and even patriotic American Civil War tunes such as \"Marching through Georgia\". The combination of such songs conjured up images of the fight for freedom in America. International recognition solidified the image of Ives as an American composer, especially strengthened by his use of borrowing from typically American-sounding pieces.\n\n\"Three Places\" became the first of Ives' compositions to be commercially published. Slonimsky was in touch with the Boston publisher C.C. Birchard on Ives’ behalf, and by 1935 the two had negotiated a deal. Ives and Slonimsky both proofread the score note-by-note to make sure the engravings were correct. In 1935, Ives held a copy of his first work in his hands. He had requested that the binding bear his name in as small a font as possible, so as to not appear egotistical.\n\nFor many years, very little interest in performance of \"Three Places\" was aroused by its publication. After Slonimsky's retirement from conducting, the piece lay dormant until 1948, when longtime BSO concertmaster Richard Burgin programmed it on a Boston Symphony Orchestra concert. The current practice of performing Ives' chamber scores rescored for full orchestra was thus established.\n\nIn the 1970s, interest in \"Three Places in New England\" was piqued once again, this time regarding the differences between the original 1914 scoring, much of which had been lost, and the 1929 chamber-orchestra rescoring for Slonimsky's chamber orchestra. James Sinclair of Yale University, after extensive research, concluded that the 1914 orchestration could not be recreated in its entirety since only 35% of the second movement had survived Ives' cutting for the 1929 version. Sinclair created what is currently believed to be the closest replication of the 1914 score for full orchestra by extrapolating Ives' scraps, sketches and notes. The world premiere of this version took place on February 9, 1974, at Yale University's Woolsey Hall, with the Yale Symphony Orchestra, conducted by John Mauceri, honoring the composer's 100th birthday.\n\nThe first movement of \"Three Places\" is a tribute to the \"Robert Gould Shaw Memorial\" on the corner of Beacon and Park Streets in Boston, Massachusetts. The monument was created over fourteen years by the world-renowned artist Augustus Saint-Gaudens in honor of the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, the first all-black regiment to serve in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Colonel Robert Shaw was the white commander who led the Regiment in their assault on Fort Wagner, South Carolina. Of the six hundred men who stormed the fort, 272, including Shaw, were killed, captured, or wounded. They were subsequently recognized for their courage and valor in battle. The story of the 54th Massachusetts was dramatically told, from the point of view of Colonel Shaw, in the 1989 Oscar-winning film \"Glory.\"\n\nComposed between 1913 and c.1923 and revised in 1929, it is possible that initial sketches of this piece were penned as far back as May 1911, at the time of Ives' move to Hartsdale, New York. A distinguishing characteristic of the movement is its sophisticated handling of harmonic progressions, technically atonal though supporting a diatonic melody dominated by the interval of a minor third.\n\nIves referred to the piece as a brooding \"Black March\", inspired by a reflective experience at the monument. The piece evokes images of a long, slow march South to battle by the 54th. It achieves this with the use of minor third ostinatos in the bass. Ives uses chromaticism, placed distantly below the main themes, to make it sound like a vague recollection of the events rather than a vivid depiction.\n\nThe piece builds to a dynamic high before rapidly receding, perhaps to signify the fate of the regiment at Fort Wagner. From a full, rich C-major chord at measure 63 (rehearsal letter H), the music falls into minor disarray and, for the last minutes, it can be heard as a solemn memorial to those lost or the crushed hopes of hundreds of black soldiers who had come to fight for the freedom of other blacks.\n\nOf particular significance is the main melody, which is made up of a patchwork of motives from old plantation tunes or parlor songs such as \"Massa's in the Cold Ground\" and \"Old Black Joe\", and the patriotic Civil War songs \"Marching Through Georgia\" and \"The Battle Cry of Freedom\". The paraphrasing of these pieces is especially clear in the opening bars of the piece, where motives from the three main sources interweave to create an American-sounding pentatonic melody typical of many 19th-century American songs.\n\nThroughout the opening of the piece, ostinatos based upon minor third intervals are heard in the bass instruments. These are intended to evoke images of a solemn trudge down to battle. They, too, are derived from the same four source materials as the main melody. Throughout \"Marching Through Georgia\", \"Old Black Joe\", \"The Battle Cry of Freedom\" and \"Massa's in the Cold Ground\", minor third intervals predominate.\n\nIves chose these sources because of their musical similarities and the possibility of creating fresh, seamless motives from them. Furthermore, the pieces have strong extra-musical associations Ives used to full advantage. Mixing patriotic Civil War songs with old slave plantation songs created a vivid image honoring those who fell fighting for the emancipation of blacks during the Civil War.\n\nOther borrowings in this first movement include \"Reveille\" and \"Deep River\".\n\nDerived from two earlier pieces, \"\"Country Band March\"\" and \"Overture & March: \"1776\"\" (both 1904), \"Putnam's Camp\" was finished in 1912. It is thought that working on his \"\" was an impetus for Ives here since he had just recently used the trio (or middle) section of \"1776\" in that work. A distinguishing characteristic of this movement is the combination of multiple divisions of the orchestra playing against each other while occasionally throwing in asymmetrical phrases or wild dissonances.\n\nPutnam's Camp, near Redding, Connecticut, was established as a historic landmark by the Connecticut legislature in 1887 and named in honor of the American Revolutionary War General Israel Putnam, who set up a camp in the area during the winter of 1778–79. The site has been preserved as a historic treasure because of Putnam's important role in the Revolutionary War, especially the Battle of Bunker Hill. Fourth of July celebrations are often held at the site due to its historic significance.\n\nIves wrote a program into the score, describing the story:\n\nJames Sinclair, who was responsible for the work done in the 1970s to recreate the original score of \"Three Places\", correlated many of the measures in the score for \"Putnam's Camp\" with this program. A picture has since been worked out which shows the measures of the piece along with their programmatic significance.\n\nIves borrowed extensively from American patriotic tunes to create the imagery of frantically patriotic Fourth of July celebrations. The opening measures are typical of Ives in their heavy chromaticism and varying time signatures ( against ) to create the sound of community marching bands. This touchingly realistic interpretation resolves shortly after the start of the piece into a B major march, but chromaticism and disarray are never far from breaking through, giving the impression that the musicians in this band are only amateurs.\n\nIves also experimented with quoting famous musical excerpts in different keys from the main theme. This idea stems from an incident when Ives was listening to two different marching bands and could still hear one band marching away while the other was marching towards him, thus sounding like two pieces simultaneously played in two different keys.\n\nMany American patriotic tunes, such as \"Yankee Doodle\" are quoted during the piece. In the last two measures of the piece, the national anthem resolves to an unexpected, dissonant chord.\n\nBorrowed tunes include \"The British Grenadiers\", \"Marching Through Georgia\", \"The Girl I Left Behind, \"Arkansas Traveler\", \"Massa's in the Cold Ground\", \"The Battle Cry of Freedom\", \"Yankee Doodle\", \"Columbia, Gem of the Ocean\", \"Hail, Columbia\", \"Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!\", \"The Star-Spangled Banner\"; and Richard Wagner's \"The Ride of the Valkyries\".\n\nFirst drafts were written primarily in the summer of 1908, reworked in 1911 and then again in 1913, extending the atmospheric depiction of mists and running water far longer than the original first two measures. The scoring was completed in 1914. It was arranged as a song in 1921 to lines excerpted from Robert Underwood Johnson's poem \"To the Housatonic at Stockbridge\", but this final movement of \"Three Places in New England\" is purely orchestral. It features strident polyrhythmic activity in the strings, coupled with a hymn-like tune derived from the opening motto of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony.\n\nThis piece was inspired by a walk Ives had taken with his new wife, Harmony, in June 1908 on a honeymoon hiking trip in western Massachusetts and Connecticut, a rural setting they enjoyed so much that they chose to go back to the Berkshires the very next weekend. While there, they took a walk by the Housatonic River near Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Ives recalled,\n\nTwo days later, on 30 June 1908, Ives sketched some ideas to try to capture the atmosphere of this rustic scene. He used irregular, quasi-isorhythmic ostinatos in the violins to create the image of mist and fog rolling over swirling waters, and an English horn and violas to mimic the sound of singing from a church across the river.\n\nUnlike the other pieces in this set, no American folk tunes are quoted in it. Instead, this piece exemplifies Ives' use of paraphrase, namely of Isaac B. Woodbury's hymn tune \"Dorrance\", and can thus be classed as an extended paraphrased melody using the following devices:\n\n\n\"Missionary Chant\" begins in the same way as \"Dorrance\" except for an added note, which occasionally Ives adds to his paraphrased melody, suggesting that \"Missionary Chant\" may also be borrowed.\n\nIves recomposed this movement as an art song for a solo singer with piano accompaniment. The original symphonic version was purely instrumental, but conductor Michael Tilson Thomas took the liberty of adding a full choir to sing the \"Dorrance\"-based melody in place of the horns/woodwinds/lower strings when he rerecorded the work in 2002 with the San Francisco Symphony on the RCA label. This was likely inspired by performing Ives' , which originally did use a chorus at the end of the final movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843654", "title": "Carson, Washington", "text": "Carson, Washington\n\nCarson is a small census-designated place in Skamania County in the southwestern part of the U.S. state of Washington.\n\nCarson is located just north of the Columbia River near the towns of Stevenson, Bingen and White Salmon in Washington and Cascade Locks and Hood River in Oregon and just south of Stabler, Washington. One major point of interest is the St. Martin's hot spring and resort, boasting a geothermal steam bath.\n\nA post office called Carson has been in operation since 1894. The community takes its name from nearby Carson Creek.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843661", "title": "Hurricane Bob (disambiguation)", "text": "Hurricane Bob (disambiguation)\n\nThe name Bob was used for three tropical cyclones in the Atlantic basin. The name Bob was retired in the spring of 1992, and was replaced by Bill in the 1997 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "1843664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1843664", "title": "Mental Floss", "text": "Mental Floss\n\nMental Floss (stylized mental_floss) is an online magazine and its related American digital, print, and e-commerce media company focused on millennials. It is owned by Minute Media and based in New York City. mentalfloss.com, which presents facts, puzzles, and trivia with a humorous tone, draws 20.5 million unique users a month. Its YouTube channel produces three weekly series and has 1.3 million subscribers. In October 2015, \"Mental Floss\" teamed with the National Geographic Channel for its first televised special, \"Brain Surgery Live with\" mental_floss, the first brain surgery ever broadcast live.\n\nLaunched in Birmingham, Alabama in 2001, the company has additional offices in Midtown Manhattan. The publication was included in \"Inc.\" magazine's list of the 5,000 fastest growing private companies. Before it became a web-only publication in 2017, the magazine \"mental_floss\" had a circulation of 160,000 and published six issues a year. The magazine had more than 100,000 subscribers in over 17 countries. The November/December 2016 issue was the last issue of the print edition of the magazine. Instead of getting a refund, subscribers were sent copies of \"The Week\".\n\nIn 2003 the magazine was product-placed in \"Friends\". In Season 9 episodes 20 and 21 Monica is seen reading a copy in Central Perk.\n\nThe company frequently publishes books and sells humorous T-shirts. It also developed a licensed trivia board game called \"Split Decision\", similar to \"Trivial Pursuit\". Its online store sells quirky home and office supplies, games and toys.\n\nDennis Publishing bought \"Mental Floss\" in 2011.\n\nMental Floss was acquired by Minute Media from the Felix Dennis estate in September 2018.\n\nThe magazine was co-founded by William E. Pearson and Mangesh Hattikudur while they were students at Duke University. According to the Mental Floss website, the idea came from conversations in the Duke cafeteria about the need for an entertaining educational magazine. According to Hattikudur, they wanted to \"distill some of the best lectures from our favorite college professors. We thought if we could bottle their enthusiasm and deliver it in monthly installments, it'd be great.\"\n\nLater, Pearson met with president of Duke University, who loved the idea, but disliked the name. The first published issue, known as the \"Campus Edition\", was published in spring 2000, distributing 3,000 issues.\n\nThe founders spent much of their first year looking for investors and staff members while raising funds to publish the first issue, which was released in May 2001. Over the following summer, 8,000 copies were distributed, and 60% sold out on newsstands.\n\nMental Floss was sold to magazine mogul Felix Dennis in 2011 and again to Minute Media in late 2018.\n\n\nEach issue of \"Mental Floss\" magazine was divided into the following sections:\n\nEvery year, \"Mental Floss\" published a \"Ten Issue.\" It usually featured lists of ten things focusing on subjects like: \"Ten Most Forgettable Presidents,\" or \"Ten Famous Monkeys in Science.\"\n\nInitially, \"Mental Floss\" tried to feature self-proclaimed mascot Albert Einstein on the cover of each issue. The magazine even did a 'swimsuit issue,' which featured a topless Einstein.\n\n\n\"Mental Floss\" sells merchandise through its online store and its retail store in Chesterland, Ohio.\n\n\n\"Mental Floss\" has been covered by magazines and newspapers such as \"Reader's Digest\", \"Los Angeles Times\", CNN.com, \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"Newsweek\", \"Dallas Morning News\", \"The Wall Street Journal, New York Times\" and the \"Washington Post\". Other media coverage includes:\n"}
