{"id": "1797844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797844", "title": "Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom und zum Stein", "text": "Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom und zum Stein\n\nHeinrich Friedrich Karl Reichsfreiherr vom und zum Stein (25 October 1757 – 29 June 1831), commonly known as Baron vom Stein, was a Prussian statesman who introduced the Prussian reforms, which paved the way for the unification of Germany. He promoted the abolition of serfdom, with indemnification to territorial lords; subjection of the nobles to manorial imposts; and the establishment of a modern municipal system.\n\nStein was from an old Franconian family. He was born on the family estate near Nassau, studied at Göttingen, and entered the civil service. Prussian conservatism hampered him in his efforts to bring about changes. In 1807, he was removed from office by the King for refusing to accept the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs but was recalled after the Peace of Tilsit.\n\nAfter it became known that he had written a letter in which he criticised Napoleon, Stein was obliged to resign, which he did on 24 November 1808 and retired to the Austrian Empire, from which he was summoned to the Russian Empire by Tsar Alexander I in 1812. After the Battle of Leipzig in 1813, Stein became head of the council for the administration of the reconquered German countries.\n\nStein was the ninth child of Karl Philipp Freiherr vom Stein, and Henriette Karoline Langwerth von Simmern, the widow of von Löw. His father was a man of stern and irritable temperament, which his far more famous son inherited, with the addition of intellectual gifts, which the father entirely lacked. The family belonged to the order of imperial knights of the Holy Roman Empire, who occupied a middle position between sovereign princes and subjects of the empire. They owned their own domains and owed allegiance only to the emperor but had no votes for the Diet.\n\nIn his old age, Stein would express his gratitude to his parents for the influence of their religious and truly German and knightly example. He added:\nMy view of the world and of human affairs I gathered as a boy and youth, in the solitude of a country life, from ancient and modern history, and in particular I was attracted by the incidents of the eventful history of England. \n\nThe influence of English ideas, so potent a factor in the lives of Voltaire, Rousseau, Talleyrand and many others in the 18th century, was therefore potently operative in the early career of Stein. He does not seem to have gone to any school except in 1773, when he went with a private tutor to the University of Göttingen in Hanover. There, he studied jurisprudence and found time to pursue his studies in English history and politics. The latter, as he wrote, confirmed his predilection for that nation.\n\nIn 1777, he left Göttingen and proceeded to Wetzlar, the legal centre of the Holy Roman Empire, to see the working of its institutions and thereby prepare himself for a career in law. Next, after a stay at each of the chief South German capitals, he settled at Regensburg to observe the methods of the Imperial Diet. In 1779 he went to Vienna. He proceeded to Berlin early in 1780.\n\nIn Berlin, his admiration for Frederick the Great, together with his distaste for the pettiness of the legal procedure at Wetzlar, impelled him to take service under the Prussia monarch. He was fortunate in gaining an appointment in the department of mines and manufactures, as at the head of that office was an able and intelligent administrator, Friedrich Anton von Heynitz, who helped him to master the principles of economics and civil government. In June 1785, he was sent for a time as Prussian ambassador to the courts of Mainz, Zweibrücken and Darmstadt, but he soon felt a distaste for diplomacy, and in 1786 and 1787, he was able to indulge his taste for travel by a tour in England, where he pursued his researches into commercial and mining affairs.\n\nIn November 1787, he became \"Kammerdirektor\" (director of the board of war and domains) for the king's possessions west of the river Weser, and in 1796, he was appointed supreme president of all the Westphalian chambers dealing with the commerce and mines of those Prussian lands. One of the chief benefits he conferred on these districts was the canalization of the river Ruhr, which became an important outlet for the coal of that region. He also improved the navigation of the Weser and kept the main roads committed to his care well. \n\nStein's early training, together with the sternly practical bent of his own nature, made him completely impervious to the enthusiasm that the French Revolution had aroused in many minds in Germany. He disliked its methods as an interruption to the orderly development of peoples. Nevertheless, he carefully noted the new sources of national strength its reforms called forth in France.\n\nMeanwhile, Prussia, after being at war with France in 1792 to 1795, came to terms with it at Basel in April 1795 and remained at peace until 1806 though Austria and South Germany continued the struggle with France for most of that interval. Prussia, however, lost, rather than gained strength, for Frederick William III, who succeeded the weak and sensual Frederick William II in November 1797, was lacking in foresight, judgment and strength of character. He too often allowed public affairs to be warped by the advice of secret and irresponsible counsellors and persisted in the policy of subservience to France inaugurated by the Peace of Basle.\n\nIt was under those untoward circumstances that Stein in 1804 took office at Berlin, as minister of state for trade (indirect imposts, taxes, manufactures, and commerce). He introduced useful reforms in his department, particularly by abolishing various restrictions on the internal trade of the nation, but he was hampered in his endeavors by the spirit of Prussian conservatism. He soon felt constrained to protest against the effects of the Francophile policy of the chief minister, Christian Graf von Haugwitz, and the evil influences that clogged the administration. Little, however, came of Stein's protests, but they were urged with his usual incisiveness and energy. Prussian policy continued to progress on the path that led to the disaster at Jena (14 October 1806).\nThe king then offered Stein the portfolio for foreign affairs, which the minister declined to accept on the ground of his incompetence to manage that department unless there was a complete change in the system of government.\n\nThe real motive for his refusal was that he desired to see Karl August von Hardenberg take that office and effect, with his own help, the necessary administrative changes. The king refused to accept Hardenberg and, greatly irritated by Stein's unusually outspoken letters, dismissed him altogether, adding that he was \"a refractory, insolent, obstinate and disobedient official\". Stein now spent in retirement the months in which Napoleon completed the ruin of Prussia.\n\nStein got to see Hardenberg called to office in April 1807 and important reforms effected in the cabinet system. During the negotiations at Tilsit, Napoleon refused to act with Hardenberg, who thereupon retired. Strangely, Napoleon, who had as yet no idea of Stein's deep and earnest patriotism, suggested Stein as a possible successor. No other strong man was at hand who could save the ship of state, and on 8 October 1807, Frederick William, utterly depressed by the terrible terms of the Treaty of Tilsit, called Stein to office and entrusted him with very wide powers.\n\nStein was now for a time virtually dictator of the reduced and nearly-bankrupt Prussian state. The circumstances of the time and his own convictions, gained from study and experience, led him to press on drastic reforms in a way that could not otherwise have been followed.\n\nFirst came the Edict of Emancipation, issued at Memel on 9 October 1807, which abolished the institution of serfdom throughout Prussia from 8 October 1810.\n\nAll distinctions affecting the tenure of land (noble land, peasants' land etc.) were also swept away, and the principle of free trade in land was established forthwith. The same famous edict also abrogated all class distinctions respecting occupations and callings of any and every kind, thus striking another blow at the caste system that had been so rigorous in Prussia. \nStein's next step was to strengthen the cabinet by wise changes.\n\nStein issued a measure for municipal reform (19 November 1808), which granted local self-government on enlightened yet practical lines to all Prussian towns and even to all villages possessing more than 800 inhabitants.\n\nWhile Stein's efforts were directed more towards civil affairs, he also furthered the progress of the military reforms, which are connected more especially with the name of Gerhard Johann David von Scharnhorst. They refashioned the Prussian army on modern lines, with a reserve system. Military service was made obligatory for all classes.\n\nShortly afterwards, the reformer had to flee from Prussia. In August 1808, the French agents, who swarmed throughout the land, had seized one of his letters, in which he spoke of his hope that Germany would soon be ready for a national rising like that of Spain. On 10 September, Napoleon gave orders that Stein's property in the new kingdom of Westphalia should be confiscated, and he likewise put pressure on Frederick William to dismiss him. \nThe king evaded compliance, but the French emperor, on entering Madrid in triumph, declared (16 December) Stein to be an enemy of France and the Confederation of the Rhine and ordered the confiscation of all his property in the Confederation. Stein saw that his life was in danger and fled from Berlin (5 January 1809). Thanks to the help of his former colleague, Count Friedrich Wilhelm von Reden, who gave him an asylum in his castle in the Riesengebirge, he succeeded in crossing the frontier into Bohemia.\n\nFor three years, Stein lived in the Austrian Empire, generally at Brno, but in May 1812, in danger of being surrendered by Austria to Napoleon, he received an invitation to visit Saint Petersburg from Emperor Alexander I of Russia, who saw that Austria was certain to be on the side of France in the forthcoming Franco-Russian War. At the crisis of that struggle, Stein may have been one of the influences that kept the tsar determined never to treat with Napoleon. When the miserable remains of the Grand Army reeled back into Prussia at the close of the year, Stein urged the Russian emperor to go on and free Europe from the French domination.\nEvents now brought Stein rapidly to the front. On 30 December 1812, the Prussian general Ludwig Yorck von Wartenburg signed the Convention of Tauroggen with the Russian general Hans Karl von Diebitsch for neutralization of the Prussian corps at and near Tilsit and for the free passage of the Russians through that part of the king's dominions. The Russian emperor requested Stein to act as provisional administrator of the provinces of East and West Prussia. In that capacity, he convened an assembly of representatives of the local estates, which on 5 February 1813, ordered the establishment of a militia (\"Landwehr\"), a militia reserve and a final levy (\"Landsturm\").\n\nThe energy that Stein infused into all around him contributed not a little to this important decision, which pushed on the king's government to more decided action than then seemed possible. Stein now went to Breslau, to where the King of Prussia had proceeded, but the annoyance that Frederick William felt at his irregular action lessened his influence.\n\nThe 1813 Treaty of Kalisz between Russia and Prussia cannot be claimed as due to Stein's actions, which were reprehended in court circles as those of a fanatic. At that time, the great patriot fell ill of a fever and complained of total neglect by the king and court.\n\nHe recovered, however, in time to take part in the drafting of a Russo-Prussian convention (19 March 1813) respecting the administration of the districts that should be delivered from French occupation. During the varying phases of the campaign of 1813 Stein continued to urge the need of war \"à outrance\" against Napoleon.\n\nThe Allies, after the entry of England and Austria into the coalition, conferred on Stein the important duties of superintending the administration of the liberated territories. After the Battle of Leipzig (16–19 October 1813), Stein entered that city the day after its occupation by the Allies and thus expressed his feelings on the fall of Napoleon's domination: There it lies, then, the monstrous fabric cemented by the blood and tears of so many millions and reared by an insane and accursed tyranny. From one end of Germany to the other we may venture to say aloud that Napoleon is a villain and the enemy of the human race.\n\nStein wanted to see Germany reconstituted as a nation but was frustrated by Austrian diplomat Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, who gained the alliance of the rulers of south and central Germany for his empire, on the understanding that they were to retain their old powers. Austria and the secondary German states resisted all unifying proposals, and Stein blamed the Prussian chancellor Hardenberg for vacillation.\n\nStein shared in the desire of Prussian statesmen to absorb Saxony; in that too, he was doomed to disappointment. On 24 May 1815, he sent to his patron, the emperor Alexander, a detailed criticism of the federal arrangements proposed for Germany. He retired after the Congress of Vienna and disliked the postponement of the representative system of government that Frederick William had promised to Prussia in May 1815.\n\nHis chief interest was in the study of history, and from 1818 to 1820, he worked hard to establish the society for the encouragement of historical research and the publication of the \"Monumenta Germaniae historica\", of which his future biographer, Georg Heinrich Pertz, became the director.\n\nStein died at Schloss Cappenberg in Westphalia on 29 June 1831.\nHis burial ground is in the city of Bad Ems near Koblenz.\n\nResearch has shown that Stein's credit for originating many of the far-reaching reforms of 1807/8 must be shared with Theodor von Schön and many others. A popular legend named him as the founder of the \"Tugendbund\", an institution that he always distrusted.\n\nStein's enlightenment, insight into the needs of the time, and energy gave momentum to the reform movement.\n\nOn 8 June 1793 he married the Countess Wilhelmine Magdalene von Wallmoden (22 June 1772 – 15 September 1819), daughter of Johann Ludwig von Wallmoden-Gimborn, an illegitimate son of King George II of Great Britain. They had three daughters, including \nHenriette Luise (2 August 1796 – 11 October 1855).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797846", "title": "Atid", "text": "Atid\n\nAtid (, ) is a commune in Harghita County, Romania. It lies in the Székely Land, an ethno-cultural region in eastern Transylvania.\n\nThe commune is composed of five villages:\nFrom ancient times the area was populated by Dacians. After the Roman conquest of Dacia, the Romans imposed their control in the area by constructing a fort known as Praetoria Augusta in Inlăceni village. The fort was discovered in 1858.\n\nThe Reformed church was built in 1802, on the site of a 17th-century church destroyed in the great fire of 8 September 1792. The Roman Catholic parish church was built in 1876 in honor of St. Michael. Its tower was completed in 1889. The village used to be famous for its weekly fairs.\n\nThe commune has an absolute Székely Hungarian majority. According to the 2002 census it has a population of 2,837 of which 98.37% or 2,791 are Hungarian.\n\nInlăceni (, ) had 228 inhabitants in 1992, all of them Székely Hungarians. As in the village's vicinity, most inhabitants belong to the Unitarian Church of Transylvania.\n"}
{"id": "1797851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797851", "title": "Beer head", "text": "Beer head\n\nBeer head (also head or collar), is the frothy foam on top of beer which is produced by bubbles of gas, predominantly carbon dioxide, rising to the surface. The elements that produce the head are wort protein, yeast and hop residue. The carbon dioxide that forms the bubbles in the head is produced during fermentation. The carbonation can occur before or after bottling the beer. If the beer continues fermenting in the bottle, then it naturally carbonates and the head is formed upon opening and/or pouring the beer. If the beer is pasteurized or filtered then the beer must be force carbonated using pressurized gas.\n\nThe density and longevity of the head will be determined by the type of malt and adjunct from which the beer was fermented. Different mash schedules and cereal sources influence head retention. In general, wheat tends to produce larger and longer-lasting heads than barley.\n\nClosely related to the beer head is \"lacing\" or \"lace\", a white foamy residue left on the inside of the glass as the head recedes or as the beer is drunk. Just as the composition of the beer (proteins, hops, yeast residue, filtration) affects a beer's head, the amount of lacing is also closely controlled by the specific composition of the beer, and beer connoisseurs can tell much by the lacing, though strictly speaking beer \"quality\" is not readily apparent by the head or the lacing.\n\nConsumers tend to place a lot of importance on beer heads: too much of a head is undesirable because it detracts from the mass of the drink (similar to carbonated soda drinks); on the other hand, a poured beer is viewed as incomplete unless it has the specific form of head expected for the type of beer. Some connoisseurs view the head on a beer as important because it helps provide the aroma of the beer. Another opinion is that it is important for the aesthetic look of the beer. The commercial significance of the head has led to academic studies.\n\nAt least one study suggests that the head assists in transport of beer after pouring by damping oscillation (sloshing) and converting vertical movement into horizontal movement.\n\nThe carbon dioxide may be produced naturally through the activity of brewers yeast, or artificially by dissolving carbon dioxide under pressure into the liquid. The beer head is created by the carbon dioxide produced as a byproduct of the metabolism of brewer's yeast acting upon starches and sugars found in the wort.\n\nWhile the actual foam activity of beer depends on the presence of carbon dioxide, it is the surface-active materials like amphipathic polypeptides from malt that determine size, shape and length of the foam.\n\nBeer foam consists of polypeptides of five different classifications, divided by their relative hydrophobicity. As the hydrophobicity of the polypeptide groups increases, so does the stability of the foam.\n\nCarbonation occurs when carbon dioxide is dissolved in water or an aqueous solution. This process is generally represented by the following reaction, where water and gaseous carbon dioxide react to form a dilute solution of carbonic acid.\n\nBeer glassware is often designed to accentuate or accommodate the head. Many other properties of the glass can also influence a beer head, such as a roughened surface at the base of glass known as a widget, providing for nucleation of carbon dioxide deep in the beverage rather than at the surface, resulting in a slower release of gas to the atmosphere.\n\nGlass surfaces can retain oil from the skin, aerosolized oil from nearby cooking, and traces of fat from food. When these oils come in contact with beer there is a significant reduction in the amount of head (foam) that is found on the beer, and the bubbles will tend to stick to the side of the glass rather than rising to the surface as normal.\n\nFor proper foam formation, it is also important to dry the glass thoroughly after washing. Any water in the glass can prevent excitement of the gas by covering designs set in the bottom of the glass, thus making the beer flat. Conversely, some styles such as Belgian witbier benefit from being poured into a wet glass to control the often abundant head.\n\nThe creamy head on beers such as Guinness is created by a widget in cans or bottles using nitrogen, or by the process of drawing keg beer from a keg using nitrogen or mixed gas (carbon dioxide and nitrogen). The use of nitrogen, which was pioneered by Guinness, creates a firm head with small bubbles while reducing the excessively acidic taste often produced by using carbon dioxide alone.\n\nOne mechanism of destabilization of a beer foam is due to gravitational drainage. The water or liquid between the bubbles will drain and cause the liquid and gas phases to separate. This allows for the bubbles to become close enough to merge. This can be slowed down by increasing the viscosity of the liquid.\n\nAnother mechanism of destabilization is ostwald ripening. Gas will diffuse from smaller bubbles to larger bubbles due to the high pressure associated with smaller bubbles. This can be explained by Laplace pressure. This can be slowed by a low solubility of the gas. An example of this is adding Nitrogen to the beer. A large effect can be seen with only a 20ppm addition of nitrogen gas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797853", "title": "Fairchild TV", "text": "Fairchild TV\n\nFairchild TV or FTV is a Canadian Cantonese language exempt specialty channel. It is owned by Fairchild Group, with Hong Kong broadcaster TVB holding a 20% minority stake. Fairchild TV has studios in the Greater Toronto Area (Richmond Hill, Ontario) and Greater Vancouver (inside Aberdeen Centre in Richmond, British Columbia).\n\nThe channel's origins can be traced to the Cantonese broadcasting service, Chinavision Canada was rebranded as Fairchild TV in 1993 when Thomas Fung purchased Chinavision.\n\nIn the Greater Toronto Area, Fairchild TV signs on at 06:00 EST and signs off at 04:05 EST. In Greater Vancouver, Fairchild TV signs on at 06:00 PST and signs off at 04:05 PST. In Alberta (Calgary and Edmonton), Fairchild TV signs on at 07:00 MST and signs off at 05:05 MST.\n\nMore than 475,000 Chinese Canadians across Canada watch Fairchild Television each day, roughly 30% of the whole Chinese population in Canada.\n\nFTV operates two standard definition television channels: Fairchild TV in Cantonese and Talentvision in Mandarin. Both stations use programming from Vancouver, Toronto, and Calgary. As of 23 May 2013, Fairchild TV launched two High Definition (HD) channels: Fairchild TV 2 HD in Cantonese and Talentvision 2 HD in Mandarin.\nFairchild TV broadcasts local (Canadian) and overseas (Asian) programming in the Cantonese language. It also serves as an overseas station of Hong Kong television station TVB. Due to that, Fairchild TV broadcasts TVB programmes, although at a time delay of up to one year due to obtaining overseas broadcasting rights. Fairchild TV also organises annual events, such as the Miss Chinese Vancouver Pageant, Miss Chinese Toronto Pageant, New Talent Singing Awards Vancouver Audition, New Talent Singing Awards Toronto Audition and Calgary New Talent Singing Awards. These programs are broadcast live nationally. Many of the contestants from these contests have gone on to hosting television shows on Fairchild TV and some earn fame in Asia. Most notable are Bernice Liu (), Linda Chung (), and Leanne Li (), they were former Miss Chinese Vancouver Pageant and Miss Chinese International Pageant winners, and Jacky Chu, Elva Hsiao and Jade Kwan of New Talent Singing Awards Vancouver Audition.\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of former Fairchild Television presenters that are currently affiliated with other media outlets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797859", "title": "Antonio Panzeri", "text": "Antonio Panzeri\n\nAntonio Panzeri (born 6 June 1955) is an Italian politician who served as Member of the European Parliament for the North-West with the Article 1 – Democratic and Progressive Movement (DS), part of the Socialist Group, from 2004 until 2019\n\nPanzeri was born in Rivolta d'Adda, province of Cremona. Between 1995 and 2003, he was General Secretary of the Metropolitan Chamber of Labour of Milan. Panzeri is currently a member of the national leadership of the DS.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2004, Panzeri was responsible for European policies; he devised and carried out a humanitarian mission to Belém, Brazil, and was a promoter and organiser of events to help the civilian victims of the Yugoslav wars. He attended the General Assembly of the United Nations as an observer for Israeli-Palestinian issues.\n\nFrom 1996 until 2003, Panzeri worked with the city authorities of Milan, Barcelona, and Frankfurt, in the context of an international project to compare experiences regarding economic development, immigration and welfare, and to devise a future European municipality model.\n\nPanzeri became a Member of the European Parliament in the 2004 European elections. In parliament, he was a member of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats group.\n\nFrom 2009 until 2019, Panzeri served on the Committee on Foreign Affairs (AFET). In 2014, he also joined its Subcommittee on Human Rights (DROI). In this capacity, he was also a member of the Democracy Support and Election Coordination Group (DEG), which oversees the Parliament’s election observation missions.\n\nIn addition to his committee assignments, Panzeri served as chairman of the parliament’s delegation for relations with the Maghreb countries and the Arab Maghreb Union. He was previously a member of the delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (2009-2014) and for relations with the United States (2004-2009). He was a member of the European Parliament Intergroup on Integrity (Transparency, Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime) and of the European Parliament Intergroup on LGBT Rights. He was also part of the Elie Wiesel Network of Parliamentarians for the Prevention of Genocide and Mass Atrocities and against Genocide Denial.\n\nIn 2015, Panzeri nominated Saudi blogger Raif Badawi for the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797864", "title": "Episcopal Diocese of Southeast Florida", "text": "Episcopal Diocese of Southeast Florida\n\nThe Episcopal Diocese of Southeast Florida is a diocese of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America (ECUSA) which extends from Key West, Florida on the south, to Jensen Beach on the north and inland to Clewiston on the west. Major cities in the diocese are Miami, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach. The diocese takes in all of Miami-Dade County, Broward County, Palm Beach County, and Martin County, along with the Florida Keys portion of Monroe County and the eastern part of Hendry County. The diocese is a part of Province IV of the Episcopal Church.\nThe current Diocesan Bishop of Southeast Florida is the Right Reverend Peter Eaton. The cathedral church of the diocese is Trinity Episcopal Cathedral, Miami. The diocese currently comprises 83 churches.\nThe philanthropic outreach arm of the Episcopal Diocese of Southeast Florida is Episcopal Charities of Southeast Florida. \n\nThe Diocese of Southeast Florida was created in 1969 when the Diocese of South Florida was split to form the dioceses of Central Florida, Southwest Florida and Southeast Florida.\n\nThe Bishops of the Diocese of Southeast Florida are:\n\nNOTE: For earlier bishops, see the Episcopal Diocese of South Florida\n\nIn accordance with the usage in the ECUSA, the diocese is divided into seven deaneries each headed by a dean and named as follows: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797869", "title": "David Bell (baseball)", "text": "David Bell (baseball)\n\nDavid Michael Bell (born September 14, 1972) is an American former professional baseball third baseman, who is currently the manager for the Cincinnati Reds of Major League Baseball (MLB). Over the course of his 12-year MLB playing career, Bell appeared at all four infield positions while playing for the Cleveland Indians, St. Louis Cardinals, Seattle Mariners, San Francisco Giants, Philadelphia Phillies, and Milwaukee Brewers. He made his MLB debut for the Indians in 1995.\n\nAfter his retirement as an active player, Bell served as manager of the Triple-A Louisville Bats and (former) Double-A Carolina Mudcats, both in the Reds organization, prior to his promotion to Reds skipper, late in 2018.\n\nThe grandson of Gus Bell, son of Buddy Bell, and brother of Mike Bell, David Bell is a member of one of five families to have three generations play in the Major Leagues. In addition, David and Buddy are the fifth father-son pair to serve as major league managers, joining Connie and Earle Mack, George and Dick Sisler, Bob and Joel Skinner, and Bob and Aaron Boone.\n\nBell attended Moeller High School in Cincinnati, Ohio. Playing for the school's varsity baseball team for three years, where he ranks in the Top Ten in five career categories including doubles and plate appearances. He ranks among the top in Single Season Doubles and Most Doubles in one game. He also played Mickey Mantle and Connie Mack Baseball National Championship teams in 1988 and 1989 respectively as well as leading Moeller to a state championship in 1989. Bell was also a member of the Moeller boy's basketball team. Bell committed to play baseball at the University of Kentucky as a junior.\n\nAfter the Cleveland Indians selected Bell with the 7th round (190th overall), Bell decided to forgo his commitment to Kentucky.\n\nBell made his Major League debut on May 3, as a pinch hitter for Jim Thome and stayed in the game in a defensive replacement. He was optioned to the Buffalo Bisons on May 8, 1995. He hit .272 with eight home runs and 34 RBIs in 70 games.\n\nOn July 27, 1995, Bell was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals along with Pepe McNeal and Rick Heiserman for Ken Hill.\n\nOn April 14, , Bell was claimed off waivers by the Indians. On April 15, he hit the first inside-the-park home run in Jacobs Field history, and the first for the Indians since .\n\nOn August 31, 1998, Bell was traded to the Seattle Mariners for Joey Cora. Bell was re-signed on December 19, 2001.\n\nOn January 25, 2002, Bell was traded to the San Francisco Giants for Desi Relaford so he could have a chance to play every day. Bell scored the 2002 NLCS winning run for the San Francisco Giants from second on Kenny Lofton's single. Bell was the runner bearing down on home plate in Game 5 of the 2002 World Series when J. T. Snow lifted 3 year old batboy Darren Baker out of harm's way. Near the end of the season, he won the Willie Mac Award for his spirit and leadership – as voted on by his teammates and coaching staff.\n\nOn December 2, 2002, Bell signed a four-year $17 million deal with the Philadelphia Phillies. He made Major League history on June 28, , by joining his grandfather, Gus Bell, as the first grandfather-grandson combination to hit for the cycle.\n\nBell was traded from the Philadelphia Phillies to the Milwaukee Brewers on July 28, , in a deal that swapped him for minor league pitcher Wilfrido Laureano. The Brewers chose not to re-sign Bell after the 2006 season, and he became a free agent.\n\nOn October 31, , the Cincinnati Reds named Bell the manager for their Double-A affiliate, the Carolina Mudcats. Bell spent three seasons as the Mudcats manager. In November 2011 he was named manager of the Reds' Triple-A affiliate Louisville Bats.\n\nOn October 23, , the Chicago Cubs named Bell the third base coach for the Major League club.\n\nOn December 17, 2013, the St. Louis Cardinals announced hiring Bell as their new assistant hitting coach.\n\nFrom 2015 through 2017, Bell served as the Cardinals' bench coach. He left the team on October 20, 2017, to become the vice president of player development for the San Francisco Giants.\n\nOn October 21, 2018, the Cincinnati Reds announced Bell had been hired as the 63rd manager in franchise history. The contract spans three years with a club option for a fourth.\n\nIn an April 7, 2019 game against the Pittsburgh Pirates, Bell was ejected after his role in a bench clearing incident involving Chris Archer, Derek Dietrich, Yasiel Puig, Amir Garrett, Keone Kela, and Felipe Vázquez. This was Bell’s first career managerial ejection. Bell received a one-game suspension following the incident on April 9. On July 30, 2019, another bench-clearing mash-up occurred between the Reds and Pirates, with Bell involved in it. On August 1, 2019, Bell received a 6-game suspension without eligibility to appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797871", "title": "John McKay (attorney)", "text": "John McKay (attorney)\n\nJohn Larkin McKay (born June 19, 1956) is a former United States Attorney for the Western District of Washington.\n\nMcKay, a member of a prominent Republican family in the state, attended Seattle Preparatory School and the University of Washington, where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science in 1978. After working as an aide to Congressman Joel Pritchard (R-WA) in 1978–79, McKay earned his J.D. degree at Creighton University School of Law in Omaha, Nebraska in 1982.\n\nHe was admitted to the Washington State Bar and joined the Seattle law firm of Lane Powell Spears Lubersky in 1982, eventually becoming a litigation partner with that firm. He then joined Cairncross & Hempelmann in Seattle, leading its litigation group and serving as a member of its management committee.\n\nHe was admitted to practice before the United States District Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the United States Supreme Court.\n\nMcKay was one of eight U.S. attorneys fired by the Bush administration in 2006 which were, after the fact, publicly described as being for performance-related issues related to \"policy, priorities and management.\"\n\nMcKay was appointed United States Attorney by President George W. Bush in October 2001. He had received a positive evaluation seven months before he was dismissed. Among his noteworthy achievements the successful prosecution of terrorist Ahmed Ressam. Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey gave McKay the additional responsibility of overseeing a pilot program for a computer system (called Law Enforcement Information Exchange) for his success he earned the United States Navy's highest civilian honor.\n\nThe \"Seattle Times\" noted in February 2007, \"\"One of the most persistent rumors in Seattle legal circles is that the Justice Department forced McKay, a Republican, to resign to appease Washington State Republicans angry over the 2004 governor's race. Some believe McKay's dismissal was retribution for his failure to convene a federal grand jury to investigate allegations of voter fraud in the race.\"\"\n\nOn March 17, 2007, the \"Seattle Times\" reported,\n\"Former Republican congressman Rick White, one of three candidates the Republicans have submitted to replace John McKay as U.S. attorney for Western Washington, cannot practice law in the state. White's license was suspended by the state Supreme Court in August 2003 for failure to pay his bar dues. He was reinstated to the bar in 2005 after paying a small fee, but currently holds an 'inactive' status\", which is common for attorneys that are not actively practicing law.\n\nIn congressional testimony, Kyle Sampson, chief of staff to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, testified that McKay may have been fired at least in part because of his advocacy for a more-aggressive investigation into the cold case murder of Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas C. Wales of Seattle. His pursuit of the case and subsequent firing were the subjects of an article by Jeffrey Toobin in the August 6, 2007 issue of \"The New Yorker.\" Toobin noted that Gonzales assured Wales's family that the investigation was still a top priority of the Justice Department.\n\nOn May 21, 2007, Getty Images announced that McKay would join the corporation as senior vice president and general counsel, based in their headquarters in Seattle.\n\nOn September 17, 2007, Jonathan Klein, CEO of Getty Images, announced that McKay would be stepping down as general counsel to return to the law faculty at Seattle University where he will teach full-time. McKay is currently a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine in Seattle.\n\nDuring his career as a U.S. Attorney, McKay was the prosecutor of Canadian marijuana activist Marc Emery for marijuana seed distribution from Canada. Since that time, McKay has called for reform of marijuana laws such that its sale be legally regulated and taxed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797875", "title": "Anne Elisabet Jensen", "text": "Anne Elisabet Jensen\n\nAnne Elisabet Jensen (born 17 August 1951 in Kalundborg) is a Danish politician who served as a Member of the European Parliament from 1999 until 2014. She is a member of the Venstre, part of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.\n\nIn parliament, Jensen served on the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets. She was also a substitute for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Transport and Tourism.\n\n\n\n\"See also:\" 2004 European Parliament election in Denmark\n\n"}
{"id": "1797883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797883", "title": "List of Royal Air Force conversion units", "text": "List of Royal Air Force conversion units\n\nConversion units and operational conversion units (OCU) were training units of the Royal Air Force.\n\nWith the introduction of new heavy bombers, the four-engined Short Stirling, Avro Lancaster and Handley Page Halifax, the Royal Air Force introduced heavy conversion units (HCU). The heavy conversion units began forming in late 1941, to qualify crews trained on medium bombers to operate the heavy bombers before final posting to the operational squadrons. Some of the heavy conversion units were involved in bombing operations over Germany.\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, the role of the HCUs was taken over by the operational conversion units. Although the units had nominal bases, it was usual for different flights and individual aircraft to be detached nearer the operational bases. \n\nRoyal Air Force Operational Conversion Units (OCU) are training units that prepare aircrew for operations on a particular type or types of aircraft or roles. Some OCUs have a shadow, or reserve, squadron designation which is used if the unit has a war role.\n\nLightning - RAF Marham\nTyphoon - RAF Coningsby\nHawk - RAF Valley\nSupport Helicopter (Puma & Chinook) - RAF Benson\nHercules - RAF Brize Norton\nISTAR - RAF Waddington\nTutor - RAF Wittering\n\nSome aircraft types which are operated by a single squadron, which includes most transport aircraft, and most ISTAR aircraft, are not big enough to need a dedicated OCU Squadron for their training requirements - they may only have a couple of students at any time. Therefore, smaller squadrons also incorporate training facilities to allow them to process aircrew onto their aircraft type. Some roles, such as ISTAR, require more rear crew for the aircraft, like weapon systems officer (WSO)s and weapon systems operator (WSOp) - their training can be more generalised, and this is carried out by 54 Squadron at RAF Waddington. This reduces the training requirement on the individual ISTAR squadrons, by providing aircrew who require only aircraft conversion training when they reach their squadron. Pilots are trained directly onto their aircraft type by the frontline squadrons using training 'Flights'. An example of this is the OCU flight of 24 Squadron, which trains new Hercules aircrew onto the aircraft.\n\nOperational Conversion Units are standardised by the RAF's Central Flying School to maintain training standards. Training is delivered by Qualified Flying Instructors (QFIs) and Qualified Weapons Instructors (QWIs), and frontline squadrons will also have qualified individuals to deliver continual and refresher training after the OCU. OCUs generally also provide training for those aircrew selected to become QFIs on an aircraft type - an example would be 208(R) Squadron, which currently trains aircrew for 100 Squadron, QFIs for 208(R), and provides refresher training for aircrew joining the Royal Air Force Aerobatic Team, the Red Arrows.\nRoyal Air Force\n\n\nArmy Air Corps\n\n\nFleet Air Arm\n\n\nOthers\n"}
{"id": "1797891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797891", "title": "Sahra Wagenknecht", "text": "Sahra Wagenknecht\n\nSahra Wagenknecht (; born 16 July 1969) is a German left-wing politician, economist, author and publicist. Along with Dietmar Bartsch, she was the parliamentary chairperson of Die Linke from 2010 to 2019. Since 2009, she has been a member of the Bundestag.\n\nWagenknecht was born on 16 July 1969 in the East German city of Jena. Her father is Iranian and her mother, who worked for a state-run art distributor, is German. She was cared for primarily by her grandparents until 1976, when she and her mother moved to East Berlin. While in Berlin, she became a member of the Free German Youth (FDJ). She completed her Abitur exams in 1988 and joined the (then ruling) Socialist Unity Party (SED) in early 1989.\n\nFrom 1990, she studied Philosophy and New German Literature as an undergraduate in Jena and Berlin but dropped out. She then enrolled as a philosophy student at the University of Groningen where she earned an MA in 1996 for a thesis on the young Karl Marx's interpretation of Hegel, published as a book in 1997. From 2005 until 2012 she studied economics at the TU Chemnitz, where she earned a PhD with a dissertation on \"The Limits of Choice: Saving Decisions and Basic Needs in Developed Countries\", subsequently published by the Campus Verlag.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall and the transformation of the SED into the Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS), Wagenknecht was elected to the new party's National Committee in 1991. She also joined the PDS's Communist Platform, an orthodox Marxist faction.\n\nIn the 1998 German federal election, Wagenknecht ran as the PDS candidate in a district of Dortmund, garnering 3.25% of the vote. Following the 1999 European elections, she was elected as a PDS representative to the European Parliament. Among her duties in the parliament is serving on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Delegation, as well as the Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly.\n\nFollowing the merger of the PDS and the WASG that formed the Left Party (Die Linke), Wagenknecht considered campaigning for the position of party vice-chair. However, party leaders such as Lothar Bisky and Gregor Gysi objected to the idea primarily because of her perceived sympathies for the former German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany). Following the controversy, she announced that she would not run for the post. Wagenknecht successfully contested a seat in the 2009 federal election in North Rhine-Westphalia. She became the Left Party's spokesperson for economic politics in the Bundestag. On 15 May 2010, she was at last elected vice-president of the Left Party with 75.3% of the vote.\n\nEarly in 2012, the German press reported that Wagenknecht was one of 27 Left Party Bundestag members kept by the security services.\n\nShe has been one of the main driving forces in the formation of Aufstehen, a left-populist movement established in 2018, which exists outside of traditional political party structures and has been compared to the French movement La France Insoumise. In March 2019, Wagenknecht announced her withdrawal from her leadership role within Aufstehen, citing personal workload pressures and insisting that after a successful start-up phase, for which political experience was necessary, the time had come for the movement's own grass roots to resume control. She complained that the involvement of political parties at its heart had \"walled in\" (\"\"sich eingemauert\"\") the movement. She would nonetheless continue to make public appearances on its behalf.\n\nWagenknecht has argued that the Left Party must pursue radical and anti-capitalist goals, thereby remaining distinct from the more moderate Social Democratic Party (SPD) and Green Party. She has criticized the Left Party's participation in coalition governments, especially the Berlin state government, which has made cuts to social spending and privatized some services.\n\nShe has expressed strong support for the rise of left-wing leaders in Latin America, such as Hugo Chávez, and for SYRIZA's 2015 electoral victory in Greece. She serves as a spokesperson for the Venezuela Avanza solidarity network, and as an alternate on the European Parliament's delegation for relations with Mercosur.\n\nOn 28 May 2016, an activist from the anti-fascist group \"Torten für Menschenfeinde\" (\"Cakes for Enemies of Humanity\") pushed a chocolate cake in Wagenknecht's face at a Left Party meeting in Magdeburg in response to Wagenknecht's calls for limits on the number of refugees. Wagenknecht has criticised Angela Merkel's refugee policies, arguing that her government has not provided the levels of financial and infrastructural support required to avoid increasing pressure on local authorities and the labour market, thereby exacerbating tensions in society. She has also claimed that Merkel's policies were partly to blame for the 2016 Berlin truck attack.\n\nWagenknecht married businessman Ralph-Thomas Niemeyer in May 1997. However, on 12 November 2011, politician Oskar Lafontaine stated publicly that he and Wagenknecht had become \"close friends\" (German: \"eng befreundet\"). At the time, Wagenknecht and Lafontaine had already separated from their respective spouses. Wagenknecht married Lafontaine, 26 years her senior, on 22 December 2014. She is an atheist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797893", "title": "Chonan languages", "text": "Chonan languages\n\nThe Chonan languages were a family of indigenous American languages spoken in Tierra del Fuego and Patagonia. Two Chon languages are well attested: Selk'nam (or Ona), spoken by the people of the same name who occupied territory in the northeast of Tierra del Fuego; and Tehuelche spoken by the people of the same name who occupied territory north of Tierra del Fuego. The name 'Chon', or \"Tshon\", is a blend of 'Tehuelche' and 'Ona'.\n\nThe Selk'nam people were widely studied by anthropologists such as Martin Gusinde and Anne Chapman throughout the 20th century. However, their language became extinct in the 1970s.\n\nThe northern Tehuelche were conquered and later assimilated by the Mapuche during the Araucanization of Patagonia. Some 1.7 million Mapuche continue to live in Chile and Argentina. Further south they traded peacefully with y Wladfa, the colony of Welsh settlers. Some Tehuelche learnt Welsh and left their children with the settlers for their education. A solid photographic record was made of this people. However, they were later nearly exterminated in the late 19th-century government-sponsored genocides of Patagonia. Of some 5000 speakers in 1900, there were about 20 speakers left.\nTehuelche language is now extinct as of 2019\n\nThe Haush spoke a language similar to Ona. Some scholars also add to the family the Teushen language —once spoken by the Teushen, located between the Tehuelche and Puelche —though it is poorly attested.\n\nViegas Barros (2005) attempts to demonstrate that Puelche to the north is related to the Chon languages, and would constitute one branch of an extended Chonan family. This proposal has been picked up by Lyle Campbell. Based on the scanty evidence that is available, the Het peoples (or at least the Didiuhet) might be speakers of languages within the proposed Puelche branch.\n\nIf this is correct, the Chon family would be as follows:\n\nLoukotka (1968) lists the following basic vocabulary items for the \"Patagon\" (Chonan) languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797909", "title": "Altrincham and Sale West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Altrincham and Sale West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAltrincham and Sale West () is a constituency in Greater Manchester. It has been represented since its 1997 creation by Sir Graham Brady, a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe 1995 Boundary Commission review led to its creation for the 1997 election largely from the old seat of Altrincham and Sale, and has been held since then by the Conservative Graham Brady, appointed by his colleagues the chairman of the backbench 1922 Committee (2010 to 2019).\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Trafford wards of Altrincham, Bowdon, Broadheath, Hale, Mersey St Mary's, St Martin's, Timperley, and Village.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Trafford wards of Altrincham, Ashton on Mersey, Bowdon, Broadheath, Hale Barns, Hale Central, St Mary's, Timperley, and Village.\n\nThe constituency is one of three covering the Metropolitan Borough of Trafford. It covers the south of the borough, covering the town of Altrincham and the west of Sale. It is bordered by the constituencies of Stretford and Urmston, Tatton, Warrington North, Warrington South, and Wythenshawe and Sale East.\n\nThe economy of the area is diverse and closely linked to the success of private business in the North West. From 2001-2010 it was the only Conservative seat in Greater Manchester and predecessor seats have always been Conservative, though in 1997 local grammar school-educated Graham Brady was elected on a small majority of 1,500, which peaked at over 13,000 in 2015, only to be reduced in 2017 to 6,000, with another slight swing to Labour in 2019 despite their heavy national defeat. Trafford was one of 3 areas in Greater Manchester to vote Remain in the EU referendum. However, Brady campaigned to Leave.\n\nA highly affluent area, workless claimants who were registered jobseekers, in November 2012, were a lower proportion of Altrincham and Sale West's population than the national average of 3.8%, and the slightly higher regional average of 4.2%, at 2.3% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThere are some Labour councillors in Broadheath, and the Liberal Democrats have support in Timperley and Village, but the constituency includes the most expensive residential streets outside of South-East England, typified by areas like Bowdon and Hale Barns, which are safely Conservative. There are also several Black British premiership footballers and millionaire British Asian businessmen and women who live in the constituency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797918", "title": "Hypoplastic left heart syndrome", "text": "Hypoplastic left heart syndrome\n\nHypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a rare congenital heart defect in which the left side of the heart is severely underdeveloped. It may affect the left ventricle, aorta, aortic valve, or mitral valve.\n\nClosing of the ductus arteriosus in a heart that is severely underdeveloped on the left results in cyanosis and respiratory distress which can progress to cardiogenic shock and death. The first symptoms are cyanosis that does not respond to oxygen administration or poor feeding. Peripheral pulses may be weak and extremities cool to the touch.\n\nHLHS often co-occurs with low birth weight and premature birth.\n\nIn neonates with a small atrial septal defect, termed \"restrictive\", there is inadequate mixing of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood. These neonates quickly decompensate and develop acidosis and cyanosis.\n\nOn EKG, right axis deviation and right ventricular hypertrophy are common, but not indicative of HLHS. Chest x-ray may show a large heart (cardiomegaly) or increased pulmonary vasculature. Neonates with HLHS do not typically have a heart murmur, but in some cases, a pulmonary flow murmur or tricuspid regurgitation murmur may be audible.\n\nCo-occurring tricuspid regurgitation or right ventricular dysfunction can cause hepatomegaly to develop.\n\nThere is no known cause in the majority of HLHS cases. Some cases may have a genetic component, as HLHS has been shown to be heritable and associated with specific gene mutations.\nNot all, but some, cases of aortic stenosis in a fetus can put stress on the left ventricle \"in utero,\" that can eventually lead to decreased perfusion and stop the growth of the left ventricle. \n\nIn a retrospective analysis of over 1,300 newborns (born between 1996 and 2006) from 24 children’s hospitals in the United States, researchers at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital in Ohio found that babies with HLHS were more likely to be born in summer months, suggesting that seasonality and environmental factors may play a significant role in causation.\n\nGenetic loci associated with HLHS include GJA1 (connexin 43), HAND1, NKX2.5, 10q22, and 6q23. There is a slight risk of recurrence in future pregnancies, estimated to be 2-4%, which increases to 25% in families with two affected children. This is thought to be mediated by genetic mutations with incomplete penetrance.\n\nHLHS is also associated with several genetic syndromes, including trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome), trisomy 18 (Edwards syndrome), partial trisomy 9, Turner's syndrome (XO), Jacobsen syndrome (11q deletion syndrome), Holt-Oram syndrome, and Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome.\n\nPresence of a cystic hygroma increases the risk of HLHS in a fetus.\n\nAt birth, the ductus arteriosus is still open, and there is higher than normal resistance to blood flow in the lungs. This allows for adequate oxygenation via mixing between the atria and a normal appearance at birth. When the ductus begins to close and pulmonary vascular resistance decreases, blood flow through the ductus is restricted and flow to the lungs is increased. \n\nIn typical anatomy, the left side of the heart receives oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the rest of the body. In people with HLHS, the aorta and left ventricle are underdeveloped (beginning \"in utero\"), and the aortic and mitral valves are either too small to allow sufficient blood flow or are atretic (closed) altogether. As blood returns from the lungs to the left atrium, it cannot be pumped to the rest of the body by the left ventricle. The neonate is reliant on blood flowing through an atrial septal defect to mix oxygenated and deoxygenated blood, and on a patent ductus arteriosus to allow blood to reach the aorta and the systemic circulation via the right ventricle. This is what defines HLHS as a \"single ventricle\" defect.\n\nDue to the underdevelopment of the left side of the heart \"in utero\", the increased afterload causes hypertension of the left atrium, pulmonary edema, and therefore lung damage to the fetus before birth. \n\nHypoplastic left heart syndrome can be diagnosed prenatally or after birth via echocardiography. Typical findings include a small left ventricle and aorta, abnormalities of the mitral and aortic valves, retrograde flow in the transverse arch of the aorta, and left-to-right flow between the atria. It is often recognized during the second trimester of pregnancy, between 18 and 24 weeks' gestation.\n\nWithout life-prolonging interventions, HLHS is fatal, but with intervention, an infant may survive. A cardiothoracic surgeon may perform a series of operations or a full heart transplant. While surgical intervention has emerged as the standard of care in the United States, other national health systems, notably in France, approach diagnosis of HLHS in a more conservative manner, with an emphasis on termination of pregnancy or compassionate care after delivery.\n\nBefore surgery, the ductus must be kept open to allow blood-flow using medication containing prostaglandin. Air with less oxygen than normal is used for infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. These low oxygen levels increases the pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and thus improve blood flow to the rest of the body due to the greater pressure difference between the lungs and body. Achieving oxygen levels below atmosphere requires the use of inhaled nitrogen. Nitric oxide is a potent pulmonary vasodilator, and thus reduces PVR and improves venous return. Any factor that increases PVR will impede right sided flow.\n\nSurgical operations to assist with hypoplastic left heart are complex and need to be individualized for each patient. A cardiologist must assess all medical and surgical options on a case-by-case basis.\n\nCurrently, infants undergo either the staged reconstructive surgery (Norwood or Sano procedure within a few days of birth, Glenn or \"Hemi-Fontan procedure\" at 3 to 6 months of age, and the Fontan procedure at 1 1/2 to 5 years of age) or cardiac transplantation. Current expectations are that 70% of those with HLHS may reach adulthood. Many studies show that the higher the volume (number of surgeries performed) at a hospital, the lower the mortality (death) rate. Factors that increase an infant's risk include lower birth weight, additional congenital anomalies, a genetic syndrome or those with a highly restrictive atrial septum.) For patients without these additional risk factors, 5 year survival now approaches 80%. Studies show that about 75% of those children who survive surgery show developmental delays in one or more areas, such as motor, cognitive, or language impairments, with about a third of single-ventricle children without a genetic syndrome having significant impairments. Current research focuses on charting the connections between neurodevelopment injuries, surgical and intensive care procedures, and genetic susceptibility with the goal of modifying interventions that impair neurodevelopmental and psychosocial outcomes. An alternative to the traditional Norwood is the Hybrid procedure.\n\nSome physicians offer \"compassionate care\", instead of the surgeries, which results in the child's death, usually within 2 weeks of birth. Compassionate care is overseen by a physician, and may be carried out either in the hospital or at home. However, due to the vast improvement of surgical intervention, with many hospitals achieving over 90% survival, there is debate on whether or not \"compassionate care\" should still be offered to families. A study in 2003 concluded that a selection of physicians who are experts in the care of children with HLHS were evenly split when asked what they would do if their own children were born with HLHS, with 1/3 stating that they would choose surgery, 1/3 stating that they would choose palliative (compassionate) treatment without surgery, and 1/3 stating that they are uncertain which choice they would make.\n\nThe three-stage procedure is a palliative procedure (not a cure), as the child's circulation is made to work with only two of the heart's four chambers.\n\nThe first step is the Norwood procedure. In this procedure, the right ventricle is used to pump blood into the systemic circulation. Since the right ventricle is no longer directly pumping blood to the lungs, a shunt is required in order to pass deoxygenated blood through the lungs. Either the subclavian artery can be connected to the pulmonary circulation (Blalock-Taussig shunt), or a shunt is made directly from the right ventricle to the pulmonary circulation (Sano shunt). The narrow aorta is enlarged using a patch to improve blood flow to the body.\n\nDuring this time the baby may be medically fragile and have feeding problems because the heart is working very hard. There is a considerable degree of venous mixing in the right ventricle, leading to lower oxygenation saturation. In addition, both the Blalock-Taussig and the Sano shunts expose the lungs to systemic arterial pressures, leading to long-term pulmonary hypertension and eventually heart failure.\n\nThe Hybrid procedure may be used in place of the Norwood. The Hybrid procedure does not necessitate the use of heart-lung bypass or performing a sternotomy. Instead of a six-hour surgery, the Hybrid typically takes one to two hours. In this procedure, a stent is placed in the ductus arteriosus to maintain its patency, and bands are placed over both the left and right pulmonary artery branches to limit pressure and over-circulation to the lungs. Outcomes with the Hybrid approach are comparable to those with the Norwood.\n\nThe second stage—the bidirectional Glenn or \"Hemi-Fontan\" (see also Kawashima procedure)—relieves some of the problems introduced by Stage I palliation. In this operation, the superior vena cava is ligated from the heart and connected to the pulmonary circulation. At this time, the Blalock-Taussig or Sano shunt is taken down. The lungs are no longer exposed to systemic arterial pressures, but much lower venous pressures. Although venous blood from the upper half of the body is no longer mixing with oxygenated blood in the right ventricle, there is still venous mixing from the lower half of the body, leading to some degree of oxygen desaturation.\n\nThe final procedure, the Fontan procedure, completes the repair of the hypoplastic left heart. Although there are several variations, the functional effect is to redirect venous blood from the lower body (through the inferior vena cava) away from the right atrium to the pulmonary artery. This should eliminate any mixing of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood in the right ventricle. The right ventricle performs the traditional job of the left, supplying the body with oxygenated blood, while the passive systemic venous pressure performs the traditional job of the right, passing deoxygenated blood to the lungs.\n\nInterventions performed during fetal development are under investigation. In fetuses with hypoplastic left ventricles and an intact interatrial septum, percutaneous atrial septostomy has been attempted.\n\n95% of untreated infants with HLHS die in the first weeks of life.\n\nEarly survival has improved since the introduction of the Norwood procedure. Since there are no long-term studies of HLHS adults, statistics are usually derived from post-Fontan patients; it is estimated that 70% of HLHS patients may reach adulthood.\n\nPrognosis is dependent upon the health of the child, as there is an increased demand on respiratory and heart rate in infants during common childhood illnesses. This fragile population has little cardiac reserve to accommodate these demands and provide hemodynamic stability during illnesses. \n\nChildren with HLHS and other comparable single-ventricle conditions, as a group, have poorer neurodevelopmental outcomes than their healthy peers. Deficits in language, executive functioning, and higher rates of anxiety and depression disorders have been demonstrated. Some of these outcomes may be a consequence of genetic factors associated with HLHS, and others may be modifiable through changes to procedures and to the healthcare environment. There is an emerging clinical consensus around the importance of continuous neurodevelopmental surveillance from the earliest years into adulthood.\n\nAs is true for patients with other types of heart defects involving malformed valves, HLHS patients run a high risk of endocarditis, and must be monitored by a cardiologist for the rest of their lives to check on their heart function.\n\nHeart transplantation may be indicated, typically after Fontan completion. One multi-center study (of patients undergoing the Fontan from 1993-2001) reported a 76% 1-year survival rate in patients who survived to transplant.\n\nHLHS occurs in an estimated 1 out of 4,300 live births in the United States, or an estimated total of 960 live births per year in that country. Overall, it is estimated to make up 2-3% of all cases of congenital heart disease, and is the most common single-ventricle defect. It is thought to be more common in male infants, 1.5 times as common as in female infants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797921", "title": "Natalia Vodianova", "text": "Natalia Vodianova\n\nNatalia Mikhailovna Vodianova (; ; born 28 February 1982), nicknamed Supernova, is a Russian model, philanthropist, entrepreneur, and public speaker.\n\nShe is well known for her rags-to-riches life story and for her eight-season, seven-figure contract with Calvin Klein. In 2012, she came in third on the \"Forbes\" top-earning models list, estimated to have earned $8.6 million in one year. Vodianova is currently ranked by models.com as one of the New Supers in the fashion industry.\n\nVodianova is the founder of the Naked Heart Foundation, a philanthropic organisation committed to helping children with special needs and their families. In 2015, Vodianova launched \"Elbi\": a disruptive digital platform that aims to bring philanthropy in the daily life of people through micro-donations.\n\nIn 2010, Vodianova was awarded by \"Harper’s Bazaar\" as Inspiration of the Year, in 2014 Glamour recognised her as Woman of the Year and The Voice for Children award. In 2016, Mattel created the first Russian Barbie under her name. She received Vogue India's Women of The Year awards 2017.\n\nVodianova is a mother of 5. She is also a member of the Special Olympics International Board of Directors, the world's largest sports organisation for children and adults with intellectual disabilities, providing year-round training and competitions to 5.7 million athletes and Unified Sports partners in 172 countries.\n\nBorn in Gorky, Soviet Union (now Nizhny Novgorod, Russia), Vodianova grew up in a poor district of the city (Avtozavod) with her mother and two half-sisters. As a teenager, Vodianova helped her mother sell fruit on the street and later set up her own fruit stand with a friend to help her family out of poverty. Vodianova's father walked out on the family when she was a toddler, and she did not have any further contact with him until after she had become famous.\n\nAt the age of 15, Vodianova enrolled in a modelling agency. By the age of 17, she had moved to Paris, and signed with Viva Models. Vodianova has achieved success as a runway, editorial, and advertising campaign model. She has walked in more than 200 runway shows for American and European based designers' ready-to-wear and haute couture collections, and has completed advertising campaigns for Guerlain, Givenchy, Prada, Calvin Klein, Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Gucci, Nina Ricci, Versace, Yves Saint Laurent, L'Oréal, H&M, David Yurman, Marc Jacobs, Stella McCartney, Diane von Fürstenberg, Hugo Boss, Miss Sixty, Stuart Weitzman, Etam and others.\n\nShe has worked with all the prolific fashion photographers such as Mario Testino, Annie Leibovitz, Steven Meisel, Patrick Demarchelier, Paolo Roversi, Bruce Weber, Peter Lindbergh, Craig McDean, Inez and Vinoodh, Mario Sorrenti, Mert Alas and Marcus Piggott, Alasdair McLellan, David Sims, Juergen Teller, Helmut Newton, Bruno Aveillan, Hedi Slimane, Ellen von Unwerth, Terry Richardson, Mariano Vivanco, Sølve Sundsbø, Steven Klein, and Karl Lagerfeld.\n\nVodianova has also appeared on the covers of major international magazines including \"Vanity Fair\"; American, Taiwan, British, French, Italian, Chinese, Russian, Australian, Spanish, German, Indian, Turkish, Japanese, Greek, Polish, South Korean, and Portuguese \"Vogue\"; \"W\"; \"Numéro\"; \"i-D\"; \"Marie Claire\"; \"GQ\"; \"Elle\"; \"Allure\"; \"Glamour\"; \"Pop\"; \"Love\"; \"Cosmopolitan\"; \"Harper's Bazaar\"; \"L'Officiel\"; \"Grazia\"; \"Esquire\"; \"Tatler\"; \"Hello!\", \"Porter\", and \"Interview\".\n\nPhotographed by Steven Meisel, Vodianova made her first appearance on the cover of American \"Vogue\" in the September 2004 edition alongside Gisele Bündchen and Daria Werbowy as one of the \"Models of the Moment\". She then appeared as the solo cover subject of the July 2007 edition of the magazine. During this time period, other covers of American \"Vogue\" have all featured non-model celebrities with only three other exceptions—Linda Evangelista, Liya Kebede, and Bündchen. In May 2009, Vodianova was again featured on the cover of American \"Vogue\" as one of the \"Model Faces of the Moment\". As of 2014, Vodianova has appeared on the cover of British \"Vogue\" ten times; the first was the September 2003 issue. As of December 2015, she has appeared on a total of 70 international \"Vogue\" covers.\n\nIn Spring 2009, Vodianova entered a three-year agreement to be a brand ambassador for the French lingerie company Etam and will design a lingerie collection each season during the term of the agreement. The collections will be marketed under the brand \"Natalia pour Etam\". Vodianova has a contract with Guerlain, a French perfume house and cosmetics line, which was acquired in 1994 by the LVMH group, a multinational investment corporation specializing in luxury brands. She is also a regular campaign and poster model for Stella McCartney. She featured as a 'Face of the Moment' in May 2009's US \"Vogue\". \nIn 2014, Vodianova appeared on the cover of the September issue of \"Vanity Fair\" shot by photographer Mario Testino. She was one of fifty models on the September 2014 cover of Italian \"Vogue\", the magazine's fiftieth anniversary issue. She has also appeared on a solo cover for French \"Vogue\" in the September issue, her sixth cover for the magazine. In the November issue, Vodianova graced of the cover of American \"Vogue\" shot by Annie Leibovitz; this was her fourth American \"Vogue\" cover and second solo American \"Vogue\" cover since her appearance in July 2007.\n\nIn 2015, Vodianova was photographed by Steven Meisel for the 2015 Pirelli Calendar; this was her fourth appearance in Pirelli since 2003. She returned as the face of Calvin Klein's Euphoria fragrance shot by Inez and Vinoodh, ten years since her first exclusive contract with Calvin Klein. Vice President of Calvin Klein Fragrances, Coty Inc, Friedemann Schmid, commenting on her return to the brand, said \"Natalia Vodianova truly embodies the sensual glamour and sophistication of the Euphoria woman\". Vodianova returned for the Stella McCartney campaign for the spring/summer 2015 and fall/winter 2015 collections. She ranked No. 5 on the 2015 \"Forbes\" list of highest earning models, earning an estimated $7 million.\n\nIn 2016, Vodianova was selected and photographed by Annie Leibovitz as part of the 43rd Pirelli Calendar, which celebrated some of the world's most inspiring women, such as Tavi Gevinson, Serena Williams, Amy Schumer, Yoko Ono, Fran Lebowitz, Patti Smith, Kathleen Kennedy, Yao Chen, Mellody Hobson, Ava DuVernay, Agnes Gund, and Shirin Neshat. This was her fifth appearance in Pirelli. She also fronted Riccardo Tisci's Givenchy 2016 Spring/Summer campaign along with Tisci's longtime muse Mariacarla Boscono. Other veteran models in the campaign included Lara Stone, Joan Smalls, Miranda Kerr, Gemma Ward, Iselin Steiro, Candice Swanepoel. This was Vodianova's fourth appearance in Tisci's Givenchy campaigns. Shot by Steven Meisel, she became the campaign model for Prada's spring/summer 2016 collection along with their comeback muse Sasha Pivovarova and Dutch newcomer Yasmin Wijnaldum. Vodianova appeared in her ninth ad campaign for Stella McCartney in their spring/summer 2016 collection together with Boscono. She also returned as the campaign model for Italian denim wear brand Miss Sixty. In October 2016, she appeared in her second campaign ad for David Yurman, which was shot by Bruce Weber for the fall/winter 2016 campaign.\n\nIn 2017, Vodianova was again in the Campaign Ad for David Yurman along with model Taylor Marie Hill for the spring/summer collection. Vodianova was also tapped by H&M for their Conscious Exclusive collection, their conscious line uses recycled and organic materials to create more sustainable fashion looks and synthetics. Vodianova appeared in her 5th cover for W Magazine in their June/July 2017 edition, which was dedicated to Vodianova and photographed by Steven Meisel.\n\nVodianova was ranked 14th in British television channel Five's 2005 television programme \"World's Greatest Supermodel\". \"Forbes\" magazine estimates she earned US$4.5 million between August 2006 and July 2007, US$4.8 million between May 2007 and April 2008 and US$5.5 million between June 2008 and June 2009, making her the seventh highest earning model worldwide during all three time periods. In 2010, she was named in \"Tatler\"'s top 10 best-dressed list.\n\nShe was cast as Medusa in the 2010 film Clash of the Titans. In addition, she played major roles in the films CQ (2001), Probka (2009), and a 2012 film adaptation of Belle du Seigneur. She also served as the narrator in a major broadcast of Swan Lake from the Mariinsky Theatre (2013).\n\nIn May 2009, Vodianova co-hosted the semi-finals of the Eurovision Song Contest in Moscow. On 12 December 2009, she was designated an ambassador of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. In 2010, she appeared at the 2010 Winter Olympics closing ceremony in Vancouver. \n\nVodianova is a founder of the Naked Heart Foundation, a philanthropic organisation that strives to provide a safe and inspiring environment in which to play for every child living in urban Russia and to help support families raising kids with disabilities.\n\nShe was inspired to found the charity after the Beslan tragedy. Vodianova's idea was to distract children who survived with play from their psychological trauma. The organisation built its first play park in 2006 in Nizhny Novgorod. It has since built nearly many more including one in Beslan.\n\nThe main fundraising event of the Naked Heart Foundation is the Love Ball, first organized in Moscow in 2008. The next two took place in London (2010) and in Paris (2011). In 2013, the Love Ball was held in Monte-Carlo. The 2016 Love Ball, that also celebrated 10 years of Naked Hearth Foundation, was hosted by the Fondation Louis Vuitton and raised €3,886,000 to fund the organisation’s programmes.\n\nVodianova also lends her support to a number of philanthropic causes, such as the \"(Bugaboo)RED\" campaign, an initiative to help eliminate AIDS in Africa. That same year, Vodianova became an ambassador for \"Hear the World\", a global campaign that seeks to raise awareness of the topic of hearing and hearing loss and to promote good hearing all over the world.\n\nShe is a spokesperson for the Tiger Trade Campaign, an alliance of 38 organisations \"to bring back wild tigers by stopping trade in tiger parts and products from all sources.\" In an interview supporting the campaign, Vodianova said: \"I'm proud that Russia, my country, is home to the most magnicifent of animals, the wild Siberian tiger. Today it is up to us to protect the tiger and its home, fewer than 350 Siberian tigers remain in the wild and no more than 3,400 tigers survive anywhere in the world. Unless we act now we will see the extinction of the wild tiger within our lifetime.\"\n\nSince 2015, an annual \"Fabulous Fund Fair\" is co-hosted by Vodianova and Karlie Kloss. Luxury brands run their own fair stalls to raise money for Naked Heart Foundation’s work with special needs children.\n\nIn 2015, together with Timon Afinsky, Vodianova co-founded the digital app Elbi, which allows people to donate money with a \"Love Button,\" create content, send messages, and vote for charitable purposes. The app was promoted by the Clinton Global Initiative Commitment in 2016 and supported by Joanna Shields, Bebo co-founder Michael Birch, Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales, Huffington Post co-founder Arianna Huffington, Mind Candy founder Acton Smith, designer Diane von Furstenberg, co-founder of Lastminute.com and Made.com Brent Hoberman, as well as the founder and CEO of Illumination Entertainment, Chris Meledandri.\n\nVodianova is a member of the international board of directors for the Special Olympics and supported the 2014 European Games and the 2015 World Games.\n\nVodianova organizes an annual charity called the ‘Running Hearts’ charity race in Russia, together with Polina Kitsenko. The event is promoted by the Naked Heart Foundation and Podium Market. In 2016, the marathon raised RUB 37 million. All the funds raised went towards the Naked Heart Foundation’s project to develop early intervention services – a network of free support services for families raising children under 6 with conditions such as autism, Down’s syndrome, cerebral palsy and learning disabilities.\n\nThe Mattel company chose Vodianova for a first Russian Barbie doll. Vodianova agreed to the project stressing the \"importance of play for the balanced development of any child\" and added that with the new doll the foundation’s program Play with Purpose would definitely \"acquire a new meaning.\" Part of the profit on sales would go to the Naked Heart Foundation to create a system of free services for families raising children with special needs and building inclusive play parks for children.\n\nVodianova was appointed the ambassador of her native city, Nizhny Novgorod, for the World Football Championship in Russia in 2018.\n\nFashion 4 Development’s Annual First Ladies Luncheon is held during the United Nations General Assembly week in New York to celebrate cooperation between diplomacy and fashion for the greater good of women and children worldwide. In 2016, Vodianova was selected as one of the “Agents of Change” and received the Fashion 4 Development Award.\n\nIn May 2009, Vodianova co-hosted the semi-finals of the Eurovision Song Contest in Moscow. On 12 December 2009, she was designated an ambassador of the Winter Olympics in Sochi. In 2010, she appeared at the 2010 Winter Olympics closing ceremony in Vancouver.\n\nVodianova has spoken at the Clinton Global Initiative, Global Citizen, First Ladies’ Luncheon, Web Summit, Founders Forum, Millennial Summit, One Young World, Tech Crunch, Founders Forum, LeWeb.\n\nIn November 2010, \"Harper's Bazaar\" awarded Vodianova with the \"Inspiration of the Year\" Award, given in recognition of her philanthropic efforts.\n\nIn April 2013, she was honoured with the \"Inspiration\" Award at the fourth annual DVF Awards. The award is given to women \"who have demonstrated leadership, strength and courage in the face of adversity, and who use their influence to effect positive change.\" The same year, she was also the recipient of Harper's Bazaar's \"Philanthropist of the Year\" Award.\n\nOn 10 November 2014, Vodianova was one of the honored 2014 \"Glamour Woman of the Year\" for her contribution and philanthropy as \"The Voice for Children\". The ceremony was held at Carnegie Hall, with Arianna Huffington presenting the award to Vodianova.\n\nShe received Vogue India's Women of The Year awards 2017.\n\nVodianova met Justin Portman ( 1969), half-brother of the 10th Viscount Portman and son of Edward Portman, 9th Viscount Portman, a British property heir, at a Paris dinner in 2001. They married in November 2001 when she was 8 months pregnant. In September 2002, over nine months after registering the marriage in the UK, they had a wedding ceremony in St. Petersburg, where Vodianova wore a dress designed by Tom Ford. They have three children: son Lucas Alexander (born 2001), daughter Neva (born 2006), and son Viktor (born 2007). Neva is named after the Russian river of the same name. Vodianova and Portman announced their separation in June 2011.\n\nFollowing her separation from Portman, Vodianova began a relationship with Antoine Arnault, son of LVMH founder Bernard Arnault and the CEO of luxury brand Berluti. The couple has two sons: Maxim (born 2014) and Roman (born 2016). Vodianova announced their engagement on 31 December 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797922", "title": "TSC (TV channel)", "text": "TSC (TV channel)\n\nTSC, formerly The Shopping Channel, is a Canadian discretionary service channel that is owned by Rogers Media. The channel showcases various products which viewers can purchase either by telephone or internet.\n\nThe only time that TSC does not broadcast live or tape-delayed product demonstrations is on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. Sale broadcasts was replaced by Christmas scenes with holiday music in the background until 2008, but have been replaced since with the TSC on-air personalities and celebrity guests sharing their Christmas memories. TSC usually ends live broadcasting for the Christmas holiday at about 4:00pm EST Christmas Eve, with taped sales segments airing from 4:00pm – 10:00pm EST. They go back to regular broadcasting at 10:00pm EST Christmas Day, with taped sales segments, and return to live broadcasting at 7:00am EST Boxing Day.\n\nAs with most home shopping channels, the products are mainly aimed at a female audience. Products include those from such categories as fashion, beauty, home and garden, and electronics.\n\nFounded by Canadian entrepreneur John Goldberg, the channel went on the air on January 15, 1987 as the Canadian Home Shopping Network (CHSN), under the umbrella of the Canadian Home Shopping Club (CHSC), and was affiliated with the U.S. Home Shopping Network (HSN). The channel was exempted from licensing by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), but for several years this was on the condition the channel not use live motion video to demonstrate its products. Animated graphics could be used, but otherwise CHSN was limited to a slide-show format with voice-overs. This restriction was lifted in 1995.\n\nThe first on-air host was Sandi Hall. Hosts from the first year included \"Bargain\" Bill Allison (husband to Betty-Jean Allison, also a former host), Mike Banks, Craig Hamilton (Stash Cairo), Alexandra Elliot (Martha Zidel) and Rosemary Frasier, Hugh Wilson, and Steve Oatway. In January 1988, Rogers Communications acquired the organization from John Goldberg. Rogers then installed Simon Dean as the new president.\n\nThe Canadian Home Shopping Network was renamed to The Shopping Channel (TSC) in 2000.\n\nAfter adopting its current name, the channel commonly used the acronym \"TSC\", which had a stylized askew-square logo. Its use was cut back significantly after complaints from the hardware store chain Tractor Supply Company, which used a vaguely similar logo.\n\nIn July 2011, TSC launched a high definition feed simulcasting the standard definition feed.\n\nIn July 2015, it was reported that Rogers was planning to sell The Shopping Channel, and had received bids from foreign broadcasters, such as Liberty Interactive (owner of QVC). Interest had also reportedly been shown by HSN and Evine Live. The network could fetch at least $300 million, although due to CRTC policies, a foreign company would not be able to serve as majority-owner.\n\nIn May 2017, the channel introduced a new logo and tagline, \"Today's Shopping Choice\". Although in the majority of cases, the channel would be referred to as TSC solely, in some media, on the channel's website and social media pages, The Shopping Channel would remain in some references. Since that time, the channel is solely referred to as TSC in all media.\n\nTSC has several products, some which gained mainstream notoriety. In addition to the television channel, TSC also has several businesses and products associated with and integrated with the television channel.\n\n\nThe Shopping Channel sold a Nintendo Entertainment System hardware clone packaged in one controller known as Plug&Play. It implemented 8 games originally released for the NES and made them available in a menu that listed 15 games, with the 7 additional titles being alternate content derived from the first 8 games. This system was criticized for its lack of original games, incorrectly listing copyright as \"©2000 New Game Star\", poorly-rendered sprite swaps and the removal of a cartridge slot. \n"}
{"id": "1797931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797931", "title": "Alyn and Deeside (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Alyn and Deeside (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAlyn and Deeside () is a parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (at Westminster). The constituency was created in 1983, and it elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first-past-the-post method of election.\n\nThe Alyn and Deeside Welsh Assembly constituency was created with the same boundaries in 1999.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Alyn and Deeside, and the Borough of Wrexham Maelor wards 13 and 14.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Alyn and Deeside.\n\n2010–present: The Flintshire County electoral divisions of Aston, Broughton North East, Broughton South, Buckley Bistre East, Buckley Bistre West, Buckley Mountain, Buckley Pentrobin, Caergwrle, Connah’s Quay Central, Connah’s Quay Golftyn, Connah’s Quay South, Connah’s Quay Wepre, Ewloe, Hawarden, Higher Kinnerton, Hope, Llanfynydd, Mancot, Penyffordd, Queensferry, Saltney Mold Junction, Saltney Stonebridge, Sealand, Shotton East, Shotton Higher, Shotton West, and Treuddyn.\n\nThis Cheshire/Wales boundary seat is part of the industrial hinterland north of Wrexham and west of Chester. It was formerly known as East Flintshire until the 1983 boundary review, in which it was renamed after the Alyn and Deeside district created in 1974. The main population areas in the current seat include Shotton, Connah's Quay, Buckley, Hawarden and Caergwrle.\n\nOf the 121 rejected ballots:\n\nOf the 84 rejected ballots:\n\nOf the 82 rejected ballots:\n\nIn February 2015, the Conservative Party inadvertently leaked a list of non-target seats considered safe Labour, or where winning was considered highly unlikely, which included Alyn and Deeside.\nIndependent Phil Woods announced he would stand, but did not do so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797939", "title": "Ratliff Boon", "text": "Ratliff Boon\n\nRatliff Boon (January 18, 1781 – November 20, 1844) was the second Governor of Indiana from September 12 to December 5, 1822, taking office following the resignation of Governor Jonathan Jennings' after his election to Congress. A prominent politician in the state, Boon was instrumental the formation of the state Democratic Party, and he supported President Andrew Jackson's policies during his six terms representing Indiana in the United States House of Representatives.\n\nRatliff Boon was born January 18, 1781 in Franklin County, North Carolina, the son of Jesse and Kessiah Boon. At a young age he moved with his parents to Warren County, Kentucky where he attended a public grade school and later apprenticed as a gunsmith in Danville, Kentucky. In 1801 he was married to Delilah Anderson, together the couple had seven children. In 1809 he moved to what is now Boon Township of Warrick County, Indiana. Boonville, the county seat, was later named in his honor. At the outbreak of the War of 1812, Boon joined the Indiana Territorial militia and eventually rose to the rank of colonel.\n\nWarrick County was organized in 1813 and Boon was appointed by Governor Thomas Posey to the position of County Treasurer. In 1816 he was elected to the first state legislature where he served two one-year terms. During his terms, his primary accomplishment was successfully promoting legislation to divide Warrick County into three separate counties. He was elected to the state senate in December 1818 but resigned after winning the election to become the second Lieutenant Governor in December 1819.\n\nChristopher Harrison had resigned his position as lieutenant governor after a scandal, leaving no incumbent. Two other men briefly competed against Boon for the position, but he defeated them in the general election, 7,397 votes to his closest competitors 3,882. In 1820 the legislature passed laws to lower the wolf population. Wolves had been creating havoc on the frontier. They offered a premium reward for wolf pelts, Boon capitalized on the new law and earned more than seven-hundred dollars by killing wolves. His success led to the rapid repeal of the law which quickly became a drain on the state's limited resources.\n\nIn 1822 he was re-elected as lieutenant governor on a ticket with William Hendricks. When Governor Jonathan Jennings resigned to take a seat in Congress, Boon succeeded him and became the second governor of the state on September 12, 1822 and served until Hendricks's inauguration on December 5, 1822. Boon's only act of consequence during his short time as governor was to conduct a census of the area purchased by the Treaty of St. Mary's and make recommendations for the creation of counties in the region. His proposal was adopted by the General Assembly, which organized county governments and created three seats in the assembly to provide representation to the subjects of the census. Boon returned to the lieutenant governor's office and remained in that position until January 30, 1824, when he resigned after winning the election to the United States House of Representatives.\n\nBoon was elected as a Jacksonian and served in Congress from March 4, 1825 to March 3, 1827. He was unsuccessful in his re-election attempt in 1826, defeated by Thomas H. Blake who ran on an internal improvement platform which Boon's party was opposed to. During the term he sat out of office, he was instrumental in establishing the Democratic Party in Indiana. Up until that time, there were no formal political parties in the state, and all politicians loosely affiliated with the Democratic-Republican Party. He ran again for the office in 1828, and won. He served in Congress again from March 4, 1829 to March 3, 1839. While in congress he was chairman of the Committee on Public Lands from 1835 until 1839. He made an unsuccessful run for re-election in 1839, and was defeated by Oliver H. Smith.\n\nThe same year of his defeat, Boon moved to Louisiana, Missouri. In Missouri he quickly rose in prominence and became a fierce opponent of Thomas H. Benton and the pro-slavery faction of the state government. In 1844 he ran for Congress again, hoping to defeat the pro-slavery candidate, but he became ill and withdrew from the race. Boon remained sick and died shortly after hearing of his party's victory in the election. He died there on November 20, 1844. He is interred in Riverview Cemetery of Louisiana, his son, Baily Hart Boon, later erected a monument over his grave.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1797941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797941", "title": "Frank Ragan King", "text": "Frank Ragan King\n\nCommander Frank Ragan King (October 15, 1884 – July 12, 1919) was an officer in the United States Navy who died while conducting minesweeping operations shortly after World War I.\n\nBorn in Montevallo, Alabama, King was appointed midshipman at the Naval Academy 6 May 1903 and graduated February 11, 1907. After serving as a passed midshipman, he was commissioned Ensign February 12, 1909.\n\nKing served in \"Arkansas\", , \"Milwaukee\", \"Pennsylvania\", and \"Illinois\" before attaining the rank of Commander September 21, 1918.\n\nComdr. King assumed command of the trawler July 7, 1919, during minesweeping operations in the North Sea. On July 12, 1919, his ship struck a mine and went down in only seven minutes.\n\nDuring the crisis, King exerted himself to see that all of his crew might be saved. King's feeling for his men was evidenced by the fact that his final act before going down with his ship was to strap his own life preserver to a stunned sailor and help him over the side. Comdr. King received the Distinguished Service Medal for his valor.\n\nCommander Frank Ragan King assumed command of the trawler \"Richard Buckley\" July 7, 1919 during minesweeping operations in the North Sea. On July 12, 1919, his ship struck a mine and went down in only seven minutes. During the crisis, King exerted himself to see that all of his crew might be saved. King's feeling for his men was evidenced by the fact that his final act before going down with his ship was to strap his own life preserver to a stunned sailor and help him over the side. Commander King received the Distinguished Service Medal for his valor. \n\nThe destroyer USS \"King\" (DD-242) was named for him.\nNotes\n\nReferences \n"}
{"id": "1797945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797945", "title": "Amber Valley (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Amber Valley (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAmber Valley is a constituency in Derbyshire, represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Nigel Mills, a Conservative.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1983, and was held by Phillip Oppenheim of the Conservative Party from its creation until Judy Mallaber of the Labour Party won the seat in 1997. She was narrowly defeated in 2010 by Nigel Mills, a Conservative, who increased his majority in 2015 and 2017.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Amber Valley wards of Aldercar, Alfreton East, Alfreton West, Codnor, Denby and Horsley Woodhouse, Heage and Ambergate, Heanor and Loscoe, Heanor East, Heanor West, Holbrook and Horsley, Kilburn, Riddings, Ripley, Ripley and Marehay, Shipley Park, Somercotes, Swanwick, and Wingfield, and the Borough of Erewash wards of Breadsall and Morley, Little Eaton, and Stanley.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Amber Valley wards of Aldercar, Alfreton East, Alfreton West, Codnor, Crich, Denby and Horsley Woodhouse, Heage and Ambergate, Heanor and Loscoe, Heanor East, Heanor West, Holbrook and Horsley, Kilburn, Riddings, Ripley, Ripley and Marehay, Shipley Park, Somercotes, Swanwick, and Wingfield, and the Borough of Erewash wards of Breadsall and Morley, Little Eaton, and Stanley.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Amber Valley wards of Alfreton, Codnor and Waingroves, Heage and Ambergate, Heanor and Loscoe, Heanor East, Heanor West, Ironville and Riddings, Kilburn, Denby and Holbrook, Langley Mill and Aldercar, Ripley, Ripley and Marehay, Shipley Park, Horsley and Horsley Woodhouse, Somercotes, Swanwick, and Wingfield.\n\nThe Amber Valley constituency is located in the east of Derbyshire, and covers the market and manufacturing towns of Alfreton, Heanor and Ripley; in a majority of council elections from 1960 to 2012, these were favourably disposed to the Labour Party. The constituency also contains many rural and suburban wards, which during the same period generally had a majority in support of the Conservatives. The constituency stretches from the edge of the Peak District to the northern edge of Derby, which forms another set of neighbourhoods more favourably disposed to the Conservatives.\n\nSince 2000 the conservatives have controlled Amber Valley Borough Council with the exception of 2014-2015 and again in 2019 when Labour has been in power. Prior to this, the council was held by Labour or under no overall control for all but three years from its formation in 1973.\n\nThe constituency's generally small majorities in recent elections (an exception being the 2017 result) and bellwether status since 1983 (being won by the party that nationally holds the most parliamentary seats) means Amber Valley is, by most common measures, a marginal seat.\n\nGoing into the 2015 general election, this was the 24th most marginal constituency in Great Britain, Labour requiring a swing from the Conservatives of 0.6% to take the seat (based on the result of the 2010 general election).\n\n"}
{"id": "1797946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797946", "title": "1928 Okeechobee hurricane", "text": "1928 Okeechobee hurricane\n\nThe Okeechobee hurricane of 1928, also known as the San Felipe Segundo hurricane, was one of the deadliest hurricanes in the recorded history of the North Atlantic basin, and the second deadliest hurricane in the United States, only behind the 1900 Galveston hurricane. The hurricane killed an estimated 2,500 people in the U.S, most of the fatalities occurred in the state of Florida, particularly in Lake Okeechobee. It was the fourth tropical cyclone, third hurricane, and only major hurricane of the year's hurricane season. It developed off the west coast of Africa on September 6 as a tropical depression, but it strengthened into a tropical storm later that day, shortly before passing south of the Cape Verde islands. Further intensification was slow and halted late on September 7. About 48 hours later, the storm strengthened and became a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir–Simpson hurricane wind scale. Still moving westward, the system reached Category 4 intensity before striking Guadeloupe on September 12, where it brought great destruction and resulted in 1,200 deaths. The islands of Martinique, Montserrat, and Nevis also reported damage and fatalities, but not nearly as severe as in Guadeloupe.\n\nAround midday on September 13, the storm strengthened into a Category 5 hurricane and peaked with sustained winds of . About six hours later, the system made landfall in Puerto Rico; it remains the only tropical cyclone on record to strike the island at Category 5 intensity, as of 2019. Very strong winds resulted in severe damage in Puerto Rico; 24,728 homes were destroyed and 192,444 were damaged throughout the island, leaving over 500,000 people homeless. Heavy rainfall also led to extreme damage to vegetation and agriculture. On Puerto Rico alone, there were 312 deaths and about US$50 million ($ million today) in damage. While crossing the island and emerging into the Atlantic, the storm weakened slightly, falling to Category 4 intensity. It began crossing through the Bahamas on September 16, where it resulted in 18 fatalities.\n\nThe storm made landfall near West Palm Beach, Florida, early on September 17, with winds of . In the city, more than 1,711 homes were destroyed; the effects were most severe around Lake Okeechobee. The storm surge caused water to pour out of the southern edge of the lake, flooding hundreds of square miles to depths as great as . Numerous houses and buildings were swept away in the cities of Belle Glade, Canal Point, Chosen, Pahokee, and South Bay, Florida. At least 2,500 people drowned, while damage was estimated at $25 million. The system weakened significantly while crossing Florida, falling to Category 1 intensity late on September 17. It curved north-northeast and briefly emerged into the Atlantic on September 18, but soon made another landfall near Edisto Island, South Carolina, with winds of . Early on the following day, the system weakened to a tropical storm and became an extratropical cyclone over North Carolina hours later. Overall, the hurricane caused $100 million in damage and killed at least 4,112 people.\n\nOn September 6, ships reported a tropical depression developing just off the west coast of Africa near Dakar, Senegal. On the next day, a ship reported winds of , or tropical storm status; on this basis, the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project estimated that the system attained tropical storm status late on September 6. However, lack of observations for several days prevented the system from being classified in real time as it moved generally westward across the Atlantic Ocean. On September 10, the \"S.S. Commack\" first observed the storm about to the east of Guadeloupe, which at the time was the most easterly report of a tropical cyclone ever received through ship's radio. Later that day, two other ships confirmed the intensity of the storm, and the Hurricane Research Division estimated it strengthened into a hurricane at 18:00 UTC on September 10.\n\nAs the storm neared the Lesser Antilles, it continued to intensify. Between 17:30 and 18:30 UTC on September 12, the hurricane's eye moved over Guadeloupe with a barometric pressure of , suggesting maximum sustained winds of , or Category 4 intensity on the Saffir–Simpson scale. Continuing to the west-northwest, the hurricane passed about south of Saint Croix before approaching Puerto Rico. On September 13, the eye crossed Puerto Rico in eight hours from the southeast to the northwest, moving ashore near Guayama and exiting between Aguadilla and Isabela. A ship near the southern coast reported a pressure of , and the cup anemometer at San Juan reported sustained winds of before failing. As the wind station was north of the storm's center, winds near the landfall point were unofficially estimated as high as . On this basis, the hurricane is believed to have made landfall in Puerto Rico as a Category 5 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale, although there was uncertainty in the peak intensity, due to the large size and slow movement of the storm.\n\nAfter emerging from Puerto Rico, the hurricane had weakened to winds of about , based on a pressure reading of at Isabela. The storm brushed the northern coast of Hispaniola while moving west-northwestward, gradually restrengthening. On September 15, it passed within of Grand Turk, by which time the winds increased to . The storm continued through the Bahamas as a strong Category 4 hurricane, passing near Nassau at 10:00 UTC on September 16. Initially, Richard Gray of the U.S. Weather Bureau was optimistic that the storm would spare South Florida. However, at 00:00 UTC on September 17, the large hurricane made landfall in southeastern Florida near West Palm Beach, with estimated winds of . This was based on a pressure reading of in the city, which at the time was the lowest pressure reading in the mainland United States; this broke the previous record of set during the 1926 Miami hurricane. Peak gusts were estimated near at Canal Point.\n\nThe hurricane quickly weakened as it progressed inland and moved over Lake Okeechobee, although its large size enabled it to maintain hurricane status for several more days. Late on September 17, the hurricane recurved to the northeast and passed near Jacksonville early the next day with winds of . At 08:00 UTC on September 18, the storm again reached open waters. Later that day, the hurricane restrengthened slightly over open waters, making a second United States landfall near Edisto Island, South Carolina, at 19:00 UTC with winds of . Accelerating northeastward, the system quickly weakened into a tropical storm over North Carolina. On September 19, the storm evolved into an extratropical cyclone, although it restrengthened slightly to hurricane status. The cyclone turned to the north-northwest, moving quickly through the eastern United States. On September 21, the former hurricane dissipated over Ontario, having merged with another disturbance.\n\nThe hurricane moved directly over the Leeward Islands in the Caribbean Sea, strengthening as it did so. On the island of Dominica, winds were clocked at ; there were no reports of damage, though one fatality occurred. In Martinique, further south of the storm's path, there were three fatalities. Guadeloupe received a direct hit from the storm, apparently with little warning; the death toll there was 1,200, and damage reports relayed through Paris indicated \"great destruction\" on the island. About three-fourths of the island's residents were left homeless. In the community of Saint-François, the only structure to remain standing was the police station, which was built with reinforced concrete. To the east of the town, the merchant ship \"Albatros\" sank; it had been carrying 80 casks of rum. The crew and the five men attempting to save the ship drowned. Approximately 85%–95% of banana crops were destroyed, 70%–80% of tree crops suffered severe damage, and 40% of the sugar cane crop was ruined. The people struggled to survive both in the short and longer term after the storm.\n\nMontserrat, just north of the storm's center, was warned in advance of the storm but still suffered £150,000 (1928 UKP) in damages and 42 deaths; Plymouth and Salem were devastated, and crop losses caused near-starvation conditions before relief could arrive. All commercial and government buildings on the island were destroyed, as were more than 600 homes. Saint Kitts and Nevis also suffered heavily. On the island of St. Kitts, a number of homes built on wooden foundations were demolished. Nine deaths were reported, six of which occurred in a schoolhouse collapse. Thirteen people were killed on the island of Nevis.\n\nThe storm destroyed hundreds of home on Antigua, including a doctor's home and a \"poor house\". Government offices, hospitals, and school were also damaged. On Saint Croix, nearly all of the island's 11,000 residents suffered some degree of loss. A total of 143 buildings were destroyed, including a sugar mill. The storm resulted in nine deaths on the island. Throughout the Virgin Islands, as many as 700,000 people were rendered homeless.\n\nWhile the storm was passing near Dominica, the San Juan, Puerto Rico Weather Bureau warned about the threat of the hurricane which would strike the island within a day or two. The advisory was sent via telegraph to 75 police districts and was broadcast from the naval radio station every two hours; this was the first hurricane warning broadcast by radio. Warnings were also posted for 12 ports along the southern coast, causing ships to avoid the island or remain at port. Effective preparation is credited for the relatively low death toll of 312, and not a single ship was lost at sea in the vicinity of Puerto Rico. By comparison, the weaker 1899 San Ciriaco hurricane killed approximately 3,000 people.\n\nAccording to the San Juan National Weather Service office, the storm was \"up to this time the greatest and more intense and destructive hurricane of record in Puerto Rico.\" Along the storm path, the eye passed over Guayama, Cayey, and Aibonito, resulting in a period of calm lasting 20 minutes. The island of Puerto Rico received the worst of the storm's winds when the hurricane moved directly across the island at Category 5 strength. The hurricane was extremely large as it crossed Puerto Rico. Hurricane-force winds were measured in Guayama for 18 hours; since the storm is estimated to have been moving at , the diameter of the storm's hurricane winds was estimated very roughly to be .\n\nThe rainfall recorded on September 13–14, 1928, remains the record for the maximum rainfall associated with a hurricane in Puerto Rico within a period of forty-eight hours. In those regions where precipitation is more common place, as in Adjuntas in the Cordillera Central and in the Sierra de Luquillo, the rain was over , with recorded in Adjuntas. The anemometer located in Puerta de Tierra lost one of its cups at 11:44 am on September 13, just when it had registered a maximum speed of —a speed that was sustained for five consecutive minutes. Previously the same instrument had measured for one minute. Because these measurements were taken from San Felipe's eye, at the time, it seemed possible that some estimates of per hour near the center of the storm were not overdrawn.\n\nThere was general destruction through the island, with the towns where the eye passed being swept away. Property damage on the island from winds and rain was catastrophic. The northeast portion of the island received winds in excess of Category 3 strength, with hurricane-force winds lasting as long as 18 hours. Official reports stated \"several hundred thousand\" people were left homeless, and property damages were estimated at $50 million.\n\nOn the island there was no building that was not affected. Some sugar mills (\"Centrales\") that had cost millions of dollars to build were reduced to rubble. Reports say that 24,728 homes were destroyed and 192,444 were partially destroyed. Most of the sugarcane fields were flooded, ruining the year's crops. Half of the coffee plants and half of the shade trees that covered these were destroyed; almost all of the coffee harvest was lost. The coffee industry would take years to recover since coffee needs shade trees to grow. The tobacco farms also had great losses. After this hurricane, Puerto Rico never regained its position as a major coffee exporter.\n\nCommunications were disrupted by fallen trees, landslides, and damaged bridges. Some 770 school buildings were destroyed or damaged. According to some estimates of the day, excluding personal losses, the damages reached $85.312 million and more than 500,000 people were left homeless. Until Hurricane Maria 89 years later, San Felipe II was officially classified as Puerto Rico's biggest, worst, and most devastating hurricane to ever have hit the island.\n\nAfter affecting Puerto Rico, the hurricane passed just north of the Dominican Republic, causing very little damage. This was due to the small core and weaker winds to the south of the center. Advance warning reduced the number of ships traversing the region.\n\nWhile the hurricane was passing nearby, Grand Turk reported winds of . According to a ship report in the region, \"The force of the wind ... could only be judged by the noise made by the storm, which reminded me of the New York subway going full speed passing switches.\" Winds approached at Nassau before the anemometer failed. In addition to the winds, the storm dropped heavy rainfall in the region, totaling in Nassau. As in Puerto Rico, authorities in the Bahamas had ample warning of the hurricane's approach, and preparations minimized the loss of life in the islands. Two boats were wrecked as they washed ashore in Grand Turk, although the crews were saved. A sloop traversing from Ambergris Caye to Grand Turk was lost, killing all 18 people on board. The storm caused heavy damage throughout the Bahamas, mostly to property and crops.\n\nIn Nassau, some buildings which had been recently repaired after the 1926 Nassau hurricane were destroyed during this storm. A 10-year-old girl drowned after falling into an open trench filled with water. At the Fort Montague Hotel, the windows, doors, and furniture were badly damaged. Similar damage was reported at the Royal Victoria Hotel, while the British Colonial Hotel was largely spared. However, the gardens of the three hotels were \"damaged almost beyond recognition\".\n\nOn Bimini, sustained winds of were observed, causing major damage to buildings. Ninety-five houses and some other buildings, including a few churches and government buildings, were damaged or destroyed on Eleuthera. Minor damage was reported on Rum Cay. Most of the food crops were destroyed. On San Salvador Island, four buildings were demolished, including two churches, while several other structures suffered minor damage. Food crops were nearly wiped out.\n\nWhile the hurricane was moving through the Bahamas, the Weather Bureau issued storm warnings from Miami to Titusville, later upgrading to a hurricane warning from Miami to Daytona Beach. The agency advised residents to take precautions for the hurricane, citing the potential for strong winds and waves. Hurricane warnings were also posted for the west coast from Punta Rassa to Apalachicola, and after the storm recurved, hurricane warnings were extended along the east coast to Jacksonville. Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and only 26 deaths were recorded in the coastal Palm Beach area.\n\nStrong winds struck southern Florida as the hurricane moved ashore, with three unofficial reports of . In Miami to the south of the center, winds reached , and farther south, Key West reported winds of . The eye at landfall was wide, and after moving inland crossed Lake Okeechobee, where a calm was reported for 30 minutes. Winds at Canal Point, adjacent to the lake, were estimated as high as ; the anemometer blew away after reporting sustained winds of . The pressure at Canal Point dropped to 942 mbar (27.82 inHg). The lowest pressure north of Lake Okeechobee was 966 mbar (28.54 inHg) in Bartow, and along the west coast, winds reached in Tampa.\n\nThe hurricane left thousands of people homeless in Florida; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($). It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of the year 2003, it would cause $18.7 billion in damages. The cyclone remains one of three Atlantic hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of Florida with a central pressure below 940 mbar (27.76 inHg), the others being the 1926 Miami hurricane and Hurricane Andrew of 1992.\n\nIn addition to the human fatalities, 1,278 livestock and 47,389 poultry were killed, respectively. Agriculture was significantly affected, with the storm destroying what may have been the largest \"citrus crop in the history of the industry\". Approximately 6% of oranges and 18% of grapefruit were ruined, respectively. Harvesting the remaining crops was delayed until mid-October due to inundated groves. Communications also suffered severely. Throughout the state, 32,000 households were left without telephone service and 400 poles were broken and about 2,500 others leaning. Governor of Florida John W. Martin estimated that 15,000 families were left homeless in Palm Beach County alone. Additionally, about 11,500 families would need to be \"re-established\".\n\nIn Miami, damage was minimal, limited to broken windows and awnings. In Hollywood and Fort Lauderdale, windows and roofs were damaged, although to a fairly minor extent. Numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed in the latter city. Northward, from Pompano Beach to Jupiter, buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and 10 ft (3 m) storm surge. Nearly all small frame houses were destroyed in Deerfield Beach, while several citizens estimated that at least 50% of homes were demolished. The town's post office, depot, and an entire business block were also destroyed. An eight-year-old boy drowned in a ditch near where his family sought refuge. In Boca Raton, two garages and several houses were destroyed. At the Cloister Inn, windows were shattered and the roof was damaged; across the street, 32 freight cars belonging to a train along the Florida East Coast Railway were tossed by the wind into a nearby ditch. A short distance to the north, a warehouse was flattened. A building occupied by a restaurant and a store was flattened. In Delray Beach, four churches suffered severe damage and the Alta Repp and Seacrest hotels both lost a portion of their roof. The police reported three deaths within the city. In Delray Beach and Lantana, all houses and the railroad station were badly damaged. In Boynton Beach, about 75% of businesses suffered complete destruction. Fifteen people were injured by a roof collapse while taking refuge in the auditorium of a high school.\nIn Lake Worth, approximately 50% of homes were damaged or destroyed, while 75% of buildings in the business district suffered damage. Damage along the coast was most severe in Palm Beach. Total coastal damages were estimated as \"several million\" dollars. In West Palm Beach, the storm destroyed 1,711 homes and damaged 6,369 others, and demolished 268 businesses and impacted 490 other businesses; the city suffered the worst damage, totaling just under $13.8 million. Likewise, there was also severe wind damage in Palm Beach. A few buildings constructed by Henry Flagler, such as The Breakers, the Royal Poinciana Hotel, and Whitehall, were damaged. Mar-a-Lago suffered few effects other than uprooted trees and the destruction of a large Roman-style window, according to Marjorie Merriweather Post. Rodman Wanamaker's house, known as \"\"La Guerida\"\" and later the \"Winter White House\" when used by President John F. Kennedy, suffered heavy damage during the storm. The Alba, Billows, New Palm Beach, and Royal Daneli hotels all suffered water damage, while the Alba Hotel was also deroofed. Nearby, the Rainbow Pier had only structural damage to its railings, though the pier office was blown away. Approximately 600 structures, including 10 hotels, were damaged in Palm Beach. Damage totaled over $2 million.\n\nThe strongest winds in the eyewall affected northern Palm Beach County, particularly the vicinity of Jupiter as the eye made landfall farther south. At the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, the mortar was reportedly \"squeezed ... like toothpaste\" from between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower off the base. The lighthouse keeper, Captain Seabrook, and his son, Franklin, worked to keep the light on during the storm after the electricity went out. After the generator failed to work, they hand-cranked the light's mantle. The building formerly used as a Weather Bureau Office was destroyed. Nearby, six people died after a house was demolished. Six other fatalities occurred west of Jupiter after a school where people sought shelter collapsed.\n\nInland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of Lake Okeechobee. Residents had been warned to evacuate the low ground earlier in the day, but after the hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to their homes. In the weeks prior to the storm, heavy rainfall had caused the lake to rise between August 10 and September 10 and filled nearby canals and ditches. Precipitation from the hurricane itself caused Lake Okeechobee to rise further. When the worst of the storm crossed the lake, the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake. The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was more than 20 ft (6 m) deep. Houses were floated off their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacles encountered. Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the Everglades, where many of the bodies were never found. Agricultural losses in the area surrounding Lake Okeechobee were also significant, with virtually all crops destroyed and over 150 tractors suffering damage.\nAs the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing similar but smaller flooding. Route 98, then known as Conner's Highway, was closed until January, when the bridge across the Onosohatchee River at Taylor Creek was replaced after the original bridge was carried about upstream during the storm. In Okeechobee County, homes along the lake were destroyed by the storm surge, while dwellings within the city of Okeechobee were severely damaged or demolished by winds of at least . However, brick and concrete dwellings suffered little damage. A number of three-story business buildings collapsed during the storm. Almost all roads were left impassable, while communications were nearly wiped out. Overall, 27 deaths occurred in Okeechobee County. Along the southwestern shore of Lake Okeechobee, the towns of Clewiston and Moore Haven were both flooded, but most houses suffered more damage due to strong winds.\n\nOn Kreamer Island, many residents received information about the storm when it was too late to evacuate. In some houses, 20–30 people sought shelter inside and later stood on tables and chairs to remain above the water. Most of the houses were swept away into rows of pine trees and others more than half a mile (0.8 km) away. Despite this, only one person drowned on the island. Residents of Torry Island did not have enough time to prepare for the storm. They tried to evacuate, but with the causeway already inundated, twenty-three people sought refuge in a packinghouse. Floodwaters entered the building, forcing the occupants into the rafters. The building was eventually pushed into a nearby canal. Ten people drowned, but thirteen others survived by clinging to a barge or tree tops, while one woman tied herself to a telegraph pole. Others who survived were swept far away from the original sites of the building and the barge. A teenage boy was carried from the packinghouse to the Everglades Experiment Station in Belle Glade – a distance of about . On Ritta Island, a number of persons who had successfully climbed to the roof of their houses to escape floodwaters were struck by trees or received fatal bites from water moccasins.\n\nIn South Bay, nearly all houses were destroyed and several buildings were unroofed. At least 160 fatalities occurred in the city. The future first mayor of South Bay, Aubrey (a.k.a. \"Orb\" or \"A.O.\") Walker, along with his brother, Haughty D. Walker (a.k.a. \"Haught\"), survived the great hurricane of 1928 by gathering family members and joining a number of other South Bay citizens on a barge in the canal; this action allowed them to survive the flood waters that swept over South Bay and ultimately engulfed Okeelanta. Throughout the 1920s, Okeelanta had suffered several floods and muck fires. After being flooded severely during the 1928 hurricane, it was abandoned. Bean City was also destroyed during the hurricane, but it was eventually rebuilt by Arthur Wells. Sebring Farms was reduced to piles of rubber, with only four tall royal palm trees left standing. The hotel at Miami Locks was the only building to survive the storm. Ninety-nine people died in that town. In Chosen, only two people escaped a house that had sheltered nineteen people. Twenty other residents took refuge in a building which lost its roof during the storm, forcing the occupants to move into the restroom. A house that was full of people floated about half a mile (0.8 km) from its original location. The refugees were unaware that the house was moving until it collided with a railroad embankment.\n\nFloodwaters persisted for several weeks, greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation. Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves. Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both the dead and missing very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate. The Red Cross estimated the number of fatalities as 1,836, which was taken as the official count by the National Weather Service for many years. Older sources usually list 3,411 as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the Caribbean. However, in 2003, the U.S. death count was revised to \"at least\" 2,500, making the Okeechobee hurricane one of the deadliest natural disasters in United States history. A mass grave at the Port Mayaca Cemetery east of Port Mayaca contains the bodies of 1,600 victims of the hurricane.\n\nIn Fort Myers, property damage was slight, limited mostly to scores of small boats and fishing shacks along the waterfront. Nearly all cigar factories in Tampa were closed after wind and rain drove too much moisture into the buildings. Offshore, the fishing smack \"Wallace A. McDonnell\" was beached near Piney Point, though all of the crew survived. The Cuban schooner \"Isabel Alvado\" sank offshore Boca Grande. The crew, who were immigrants, were rescued by the Coast Guard and later deported. In Martin County, a bridge connecting Stuart and Palm City was severely damaged and closed to traffic as a result. A temporary ferry service across the St. Lucie River was established and operated until repairs to the bridge were complete in the summer of 1929. In Fort Pierce, most of the effects were confined to the waterfront areas. A warehouse, fish houses, docks, and a bridge across the Indian River were destroyed, while several other buildings were unroofed. Damage in the city totaled about $150,000.\n\nIn the interior areas of Central and North Florida, effects were mainly confined to agricultural losses, particularly citrus, though wind damage occurred to structures. Between Sebring and Lake Wales, 200 telephone poles were toppled. In Bartow, business building windows were shattered and signs were knocked down, while several roofs and chimneys also suffered damage. Winds gusting up to lashed Lakeland. Many trees were uprooted and several buildings were impacted, including the hospital and a number of businesses. At Florida Southern College (FSC), the north side of the gymnasium collapsed while other buildings on campus were damaged to a lesser degree. The trees in the citrus grove surrounding FSC lost much of their fruit. Overall, Lakeland suffered about $50,000 in damage. In Orlando, damage to properties was described as slight. Strong winds up to affected the Jacksonville area, resulting in minor damage at Jacksonville Beach.\n\nOutside Florida, damage from the hurricane elsewhere in the United States was minor. In Georgia, low-lying streets were flooded or washed out in the Savannah area. Additionally, winds downed trees and power lines. Heavy rainfall occurred from eastern Florida through coastal Georgia, the Carolinas, and southeast Virginia. The highest rainfall total was at Darlington, South Carolina. The storm caused flooding in North Carolina and brought near-hurricane-force winds and a 7 foot (2.1 m) storm surge to the Norfolk area. After the hurricane became extratropical, its wind field became very large. Atlantic City, New Jersey, recorded winds of despite being far from the center.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the storm, relief arrived from nearby areas such as Miami. Early on September 18, a train leaving Miami carried 20 doctors and 20 nurses to West Palm Beach. The Miami Red Cross Citizens Relief Committee, which was established to provide aid for victims of the storm, transported \"hundreds of loaves of bread, gallons of milk, pounds of coffee and sugar, blankets, cots, and medical supplies.\" The first relief train was ridden by U.S. Senator Joseph T. Robinson, the Democratic vice presidential nominee during the election that year. At least 100 people were brought to Miami for medical treatment. In Lake Worth, 25 people were treated for various injuries at the Gulf Stream Hotel and the local fire station. Dr. W. A. Claxton, chief of the Miami Department of Public Welfare, requested antitoxin, typhoid serum, and at least 200 tetanus serums. There was also a request for 1,000 more cots in West Palm Beach and Kelsey City.\n\nIn Florida, although the hurricane's destruction affected everything in its path, the death toll was by far the highest and the aftermath the worst in the economically poor areas in the low-lying ground near Lake Okeechobee, such as the towns of Belle Glade, Chosen, Pahokee, South Bay, and Bean City. Around 75% of the fatalities were among migrant farm workers, most of whom were black.\n\nThe black workers did most of the post-hurricane cleanup work. Reflecting racial and class discrimination, authorities reserved the few caskets available for burials for the bodies of whites. White victims received a formal burial service, although in a mass grave, at Woodlawn Cemetery in downtown West Palm Beach. This was the only mass gravesite to receive a timely memorial.\n\nIn contrast, the bodies of black victims were burned in funeral pyres or thrown into mass burial sites such as the ones in West Palm Beach and Port Mayaca.\nRobert Hazard, a resident of West Palm Beach, established the Storm of '28 Memorial Park Coalition Inc. to fight for recognition of the black victims of the storm. In 2000, the West Palm Beach burial site was reacquired by the city of West Palm Beach and plans for construction of a memorial began. The site was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 2002 and a state historical marker was added in 2003 during events to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the hurricane. \nAfrican-American writer Zora Neale Hurston explored the effects of the hurricane on black migrant workers in her seminal 1937 novel, \"Their Eyes Were Watching God\". This is her best-known work and it was included on \"TIME\" magazine's 2005 list of the '100 best English-language novels published since 1923'.\n\nIn the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal Florida, observers noted that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings. Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone, were largely immune to winds. The use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings. With the 1928 hurricane coming so soon after the 1926 Miami hurricane, where a similar pattern had been noticed, one lasting result of the 1928 storm was improved state and local building codes.\n\nTo prevent a recurrence of disasters like this one and the Great Miami Hurricane of 1926, the Florida State Legislature created the Okeechobee Flood Control District, which was authorized to cooperate with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in flood control undertakings. After a personal inspection of the area by President Herbert Hoover, the Corps of Engineers drafted a plan to provide for the construction of floodway channels, control gates, and major levees along the shores of Lake Okeechobee. A long-term system was designed for the purpose of flood control, water conservation, prevention of saltwater intrusion, and preservation of fish and wildlife populations. One of the solutions was the construction of the Herbert Hoover Dike.\n\nIn the early 21st century, there are concerns related to the dike's stability because studies have indicated long-term problems with \"piping\" and erosion. Leaks have been reported after several heavy rain events. Proposed solutions to the dike's problems have included the construction of a seepage berm on the landward side of the dike, with the first stage costing approximately $67 million (US$).\n\nThe storm was named the \"San Felipe II\" hurricane in Puerto Rico because the eye of the cyclone made landfall there on September 13, the Roman Catholic feast day of Saint Philip, father of Saint Eugenia of Rome. (King Philip II of Spain happened to die on this day.) It was named \"Segundo\", Spanish for \"the Second\", because of the weaker but destructive \"San Felipe hurricane\" that had struck Puerto Rico on that same day in 1876.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, since European colonization, storms and hurricanes were named after the name of the saint's day that the storm hit the island. For example, they named the Great Hurricane of 1780 as \"San Calixto\", after Saint Callixtus, whose feast day is October 14; the 1867 San Narciso hurricane, the 1899 San Ciriaco hurricane, and the 1932 San Ciprian hurricane were also named after the saints' feast days on which they occurred (respectively, Saint Narcissus of Jerusalem on October 29, Saint Cyriacus on August 8, and Saint Cyprian on September 26).\n\nIn 1953, the United States Weather Bureau (now the National Weather Service) started naming hurricanes by human female names until 1978. That year both gender names began to be used after control over naming was relinquished to the World Meteorological Organization. It was not until 1960 that Puerto Rico stopped naming hurricanes after saints. Two cyclones have been given both women's and saint's names: Hurricane Betsy (Santa Clara, August 12, 1956) and Hurricane Donna (San Lorenzo, September 5, 1960).\n\n"}
{"id": "1797948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797948", "title": "Record collecting", "text": "Record collecting\n\nRecord collecting is the hobby of collecting sound recordings, usually of music and/or the \"spoken word\" (i.e. recordings of drama, poetry, historical speeches, significant news broadcasts, speech dialect samplings, etc.), but, in some cases (although mostly on a smaller scale), even of other recorded sounds (e.g. bird calls and/or other sounds of nature; railroad and other mechanized vehicle sounds; urban, rural, forest, and other \"soundscapes\"; various \"sound effects\"; etc.). Although the typical focus is on vinyl records, all formats of recorded music can be collected.\n\nThe scope of a record collection may include a focus on any of the following categories:\n\nOne collectible record format is known as a \"test pressing.\" Five to 10 initial copies are often pressed for the purpose of checking the mix or levels on a record, or to ensure that the die is cutting properly. Though usually meant for the artist, producer, pressing plant, or record label to keep as reference, they are sometimes placed in special packaging (such as a photocopy of the real record sleeve) and given out to friends or devoted fans.\nFirst pressings of original commercial releases usually have higher values among collectors than later pressings. Also collectible are 45s with picture sleeves, and original editions of LPs (and other formats) which often have inserts and other features not on subsequent editions, or tracks or cover art later withdrawn or altered. Subsequent pressings often have the same label and catalog number but can be differentiated from the first pressings by the cover, colour of the label, matrix numbers on the disc itself, etc.\n\nPromotional or \"promo\" copies are free records, cassettes or CDs sent to radio stations (and others) to announce a new release coming soon from the record company. They are identified by the label, which typically takes the form of plain text listing the name of the recording and its associated credits, as well as markings specifying it as \"Promotional\", \"Audition,\" \"Demonstration\" and/or \"Not for Sale.\" Record and cassette promo copies typically come in the form of white label discs and clear cassettes, respectively, while CD copies typically come in the form of CD-Rs with black-on-transparent labels. Because many commercial cassette releases use identical clear plastic and white print, promo copies are oftentimes distinguished solely by text on the J-card specifying them as such. Promo copies of best-selling records can have a slightly lower or higher value than \"stock\" first pressings. Occasionally promo copies were pressed for records that were never released; additionally, some promo copies for records that were released may include other songs or features not found on the official commercial release (e.g. Talking Heads' 1988 album \"Naked\", the first promo CDs of which featured CD+G graphics encoded on the discs). Copies such as these two types are considered extremely rare and highly valued by collectors and fans of popular artists.\n\nReissues of popular records can be released by the same label many years later with the same catalog number and cover art, but are often undertaken by a different label, some of which (such as Rhino Recordss) specialize in reissues and have access to certain labels' catalogs and \"vaults\" of unreleased master recordings.\n\n\"Bootlegs\" are illegitimate releases. They vary in value and in sound and pressing quality, and come in several categories. Bootleg LPs, tapes and CDs often feature recordings from live performances or tracks not commercially released (including those never intended for release that were stolen or illegitimately acquired). Some bootleg 45s are re-releases of rare or valuable singles – exact copies of rare records, with the original label graphics and numbers - known in the industry as \"counterfeits.\"\n\nRecord collecting has been around probably nearly as long as recorded sound. In its earliest years, phonographs and the recordings that were played on them (first wax phonograph cylinders, and later flat shellac discs) were mostly owned by the rich, out of the reach of the middle or lower classes. By the 1920s, improvements in the manufacturing processes, both in players and recordings, allowed prices for the machines to drop. While entertainment options in a middle to upper-class home in the 1890s would likely consist of a piano, smaller instruments, and a library of sheet music, by the 1910s and later these options expanded to include a radio and a library of recorded sound.\n\nAfter the phonograph cylinder became obsolete, the record was the uncontested sound medium for decades. The number of available recordings mushroomed and the number of companies pressing records increased These were 78–rpm, originally one-sided, then later double-sided, ten-inch shellac discs, with about two to four minutes of recording time on each side.\n\nGrowth in the recorded sound industries was stunted by the Great Depression and World War II, when the recording industries in some countries were affected by a restricted supply of raw materials. By the time World War II ended, the economy of these countries began to grow again. Classical music (which was a large portion of 78–rpm releases) was slowly edged into a minority status by the influx of popular and new music, which was less costly and thus more profitable to record.\n\nMusic journalist Amanda Petrusich has reported that retrospective 78 collecting began in the 1940s, focusing on rare early Dixieland jazz recordings. In several articles and in her book \"Do Not Sell At Any Price\", she writes about 78rpm record collectors such as James McKune, an influential collector of jazz from the late 1930s and of country blues.\n\nThe introduction of both the 33 rpm, 12-inch LP record and the 45–rpm, 7-inch record, coming into the market in 1948/1949, provided advances in both storage and quality. These records featured vinyl (polyvinyl chloride or polystyrene), replacing the previous shellac materials. Further groups of small labels came into existence with the dawning of the rock and roll era in the early-to-middle 1950s, and the growth of a market among post-war teenagers with disposable income to spend on 45–rpm singles. Rock and roll was much less costly and more profitable to produce than the big band jazz and professional singer/song-craftsman music that it replaced in popularity.\n\nRonald D. Cohen relates that the hillbilly-focused Disc Collector magazine was formed in 1951. Various important online library catalogues list copies of Burke's Register of Record Collectors, which existed from 1957 at the latest.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, rare 78–rpms were traded, usually American rock and roll, such as Little Richard and Elvis Presley. Labels such as London-American (now London Records), RCA Victor and Capitol were priced at a premium. One of the earliest UK record collectors was Mike Adams, who was first known for trading in 1958 on Merseyside. He later became a DJ on the BBC and broadcast on collecting records for many years. He wrote several books on collecting including \"Apple Beatle Collectables\". In the UK, labels considered collectible, such as Atlantic Records, Stateside, Motown, and Parlophone (EMI), turned into mainstream major record labels later on in the 1960s. In the US, New York's Times Square store is widely acknowledged for feeding the doowop revival of the early sixties, attention focusing on them from 1959.\n\nWith the folk music boom in the late 1950s to early 1960s, there was suddenly a demand for archival material. Record collectors fanned out in some countries, searching small towns, dusty barns and mountain cabins for older discs. Initially, the most-desired items were pre-World War II shellac discs containing \"race records\" (that is, blues, country blues and hillbilly music), the precursors to then-current rock and roll and country styles. Later generations of record collectors found their passion in digging up obscure 45s in the genre of doo-wop, or LPs from the late 1960s \"garage rock\" and \"psychedelic\" genres.\n\nThe pop music scene changed with the rise in popularity of The Beatles between 1962 and 1964. In their wake, thousands of musical bands inspired by their fresh, lively take on rock music with a sharp British sensibility, picked up guitars, and many released records. Many of these acolytes released 45–rpm records in small batches to sell at local concerts and to their friends and families. Due to their relatively small pressings, these obscure local records became highly prized and valuable.\n\nOne of the \"collector's items\" with the most notoriety in record collecting is not a record at all, but merely an album cover. The Beatles themselves accidentally contributed what is probably one of the most well-known and valuable \"collector's pieces\" of the rock and roll era: \"The Butcher Cover\". This is an informal title for an album cover for the album \"Yesterday and Today\". Until 1967, the Beatles' LP releases in the UK were substantially different from their LP releases in the USA. These American albums were shorter, had different songs, album titles and artwork.\n\nAnother Holy Grail for some collectors is Bob Dylan's \"The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan\", the 1963 pressing that has four songs that were deleted from subsequent pressings, known to fetch up to $35,000 in stereo and $16,500 in mono in excellent condition.\n\nIn the 1970s, the record collecting hobby was aided by the establishment of record collecting publications such as \"Goldmine\", \"DISCoveries\", and \"Stormy Weather\", and in the UK, \"Record Collector\". Price guide books were published, codifying exactly how much certain \"rare items\" were supposed to be worth. The \"grading\" of records based upon condition became more standardized across the hobby with the publication of these price guides.\n\nWith the introduction of the compact disc in the middle 1980s, there began a stratification in the hobby; commonly found vinyl specimens that had been pressed in the hundreds of thousands or even millions of copies became relatively worthless, while the rarest of specimens became ever more valuable. These rare items included 45–rpm discs in the genres of blues, rhythm and blues, doo wop, garage rock, progressive rock, and psychedelic rock. Other rare and highly valued items include pieces from highly collectible artists such as The Beatles, Elvis Presley, U2, Michael Jackson, Madonna, The Cure, The Rolling Stones, or James Brown. Some are pressings from nations where they were pressed in very small quantities (such as the Sex Pistols' South African release of \"God Save The Queen\"). Thanks to the Golden Era Hip Hop artists such at A Tribe Called Quest, DJ Premier, Monie Love and others, sampling older records that are household classics for Generation X from genres such as Funk, Jazz curated a dynamic where these records are repackaged & rebirthed for Generation Y.\n\nEven in the 21st century, as music fans have often opted for digital downloads over physical releases (and indeed started to collect these in the same way as vinyl), certain contemporary bands have a following of record collectors. This is prominent for instance in the punk and alternative genres. For example, the special edition of NOFX's 1999 release, \"The Decline\", on transparent vinyl has already reached prices of $1500. Due to the DIY ethic and constrained budget of many punk bands and labels, releases by lesser-known bands tend to be in limited edition. Specific pressing runs of records are sometimes printed on different colored vinyl, have new or different songs, contain spelling or mixing errors, or may be in lower quantity than other pressings. All such factors increase a specific record's collectibility. For instance, in 1988, New York City hardcore band Judge attempted to record their debut \"Bringin' It Down\" at Chung King Studios. The bad experience and low quality result left the band so disappointed that they scrapped the session and re-recorded the LP elsewhere. The older sessions, however, were pressed onto 110 copies of white vinyl entitled \"Chung King Can Suck It!\" and sent to fans who had pre-ordered \"Bringin It Down\" to reward them for their patience, as re-recording caused a major delay in the release. Copies of the record have been sold for up to $6,800 on sites like eBay.\n\nOther music genres also have fervent adherents. For instance, fans of folk rock, psychedelia and other genres have become ever more interested in original short-run vinyl private pressings. Even when these have been reissued, the originals can continue to attract high prices. The first wave of classical collectors concentrated on early stereo orchestral recordings on labels such as the British Decca and EMI, and the American Mercury Records Living Presence series and RCA Victor Living Stereo series. Some of these records still sell at auction for hundreds of dollars. However, the focus of the top classical collectors has now shifted to earlier material, and rare European monos from the 1950s by top artists have become highly sought after. The Far Eastern collectors who dominate this market tend to prefer chamber music, and solo violin and cello. Others still focus on antique 78s.\n\nAs of 2011 many pressing plants have been reactivated and new releases in vinyl are appearing on an increasing basis, causing what many have called a revival of the format. The volume of product (9.2 million units sold in 2014, 6 percent of total music sales) confirms a continuing niche interest in the format, while formats such as CDs fail to compete with digital downloads. Sales of Cassette Music Tapes have also increased in recent years (2014-2019) with a Cassette Tape interest revival almost comparable to Vinyl Records.\n\nA more intense method of record collecting, known as crate digging, involves thorough searching of record bins to find a recording of interest. This practice is associated with and holds a particular prestige for hip hop producers, who searched for rare records with sounds to sample for a newly created recording. In her account of the North American hip-hop crate diggers of the 1980s, media and culture theorist Elodie A. Roy writes, \"As they trailed second-hand shops and car boot sales – depositories of unwanted capitalist surplus – diggers were bound to encounter realms of mainstream, mass-produced LP records now fallen out of grace and fashion. They primarily used them as raw material, seeking to create beats out of them.\" Speaking of crate digging's broader role in hip hop culture, academic and ethnomusicologist Joseph G. Schloss says:\n\nWhile the practice of collecting in general was historically a bourgeoisie phenomenon tied to antiques and the fine arts, the North American hip-hop crate-diggers of the 1980s helped give rise to what material culture scholar Paul Martin calls the \"popular collector\" – generally interested in \"obtainable, affordable and appealing\" items and a consequence of mass production. With the rise of digital media in the following decades, this transitioned to the \"digital\" and \"electronic\" collector. Concurrently, the demise of physical music stores allowed for websites to emerge as domains for crate digging, including the music review database AllMusic, the streaming service Spotify, and Discogs, which began as a music database before developing into an online marketplace for physical music releases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797956", "title": "Regency Records", "text": "Regency Records\n\nRegency Records is a record label founded by Georgia record producer and TV/Radio syndicator Johnny Carter and North Georgia disc jockey Lamar Gravitt in 1965. Regency Records was originally a part of the C-R-Co (Cherokeeland Recording Company), based in Calhoun, Georgia near the 19th century national capital of the Cherokee Indians. The label operated as a part of Jay Enterprises when Carter moved to Tennessee in 1966, and became a part of Cherokee Album Corporation when Carter returned to Georgia in 1968. Regency released a series of singles, and one album in 1972 by a Tennessee garage band Neutral Spirits. The self-titled album by the group is a highly prized collector's item worldwide, because most copies of the disc were destroyed in a fire. The original analog master tape was preserved by the producer, and has been released on CD, as well as by Florida re-release label GearFab.\n\nRegency later became the home of the Dutch rock band Diesel in the early 1980s, releasing a pair of this band's albums, the first of which included the internationally successful hit, \"Sausalito Summernight.\" During this period, Regency was distributed by Warner Communications.\n\nRegency is now a division of National Recording Corporation, and records a mixture of genres in one of the largest state-of-the-art audio/video soundstages in the State of Georgia. \n\n"}
{"id": "1797958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797958", "title": "Amber (band)", "text": "Amber (band)\n\nAmber was a British acoustic world music band.\n\nInspired by The Incredible String Band, the band consisted of two of Donovan's old friends Julian MacAllister and Mac MacLeod, and they were joined by Ray Cooper on hand drums. Donovan had been given a sitar by George Harrison and had lent the instrument to MacLeod, who played it on many of their songs. Keith Relf produced a set of recordings which came out many years later on the Shagrat label titled \"Pearls of Amber\".\n\nMany of those Relf produced tracks are on the MacLeod anthology CD \"The Incredible Musical Odyssey of the Original Hurdy Gurdy Man\" on the RPM Cherry Red label.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797960", "title": "Fred Reinfeld", "text": "Fred Reinfeld\n\nFred Reinfeld (January 27, 1910 – May 29, 1964) was an American writer on chess and many other subjects. He was also a strong chess master, often among the top ten American players from the early 1930s to the early 1940s, as well as a college chess instructor.\n\nFred Reinfeld was born in New York City, and lived his entire life within its metropolitan area. His father Barnett Reinfeld was of Polish-Jewish heritage, while his mother Rose (Pogrezelsky) was of Romanian-Jewish heritage.\n\nReinfeld learned chess in his early teen years, and played for his high school team. He joined the Marshall Chess Club in Manhattan in 1926. He became involved in correspondence chess while in high school.\n\nReinfeld attended New York University and the College of the City of New York, studying accounting. He won the U.S. Intercollegiate championship in 1929 while at NYU.\n\nHe married his fiancée Beatrice in 1932. They had two children: Donald in 1942 and Judith in 1947.\n\nFred Reinfeld was a prolific author, having written or co-written well over 100 books.\n\nReinfeld began writing about chess in late 1932. His first book, co-authored with Isaac Kashdan, was an account of the Bled 1931 master tournament.\n\nHe became a charter writer for the new magazine \"Chess Review\" in 1933, and was a senior editor there by 1947.\n\nMore than half of his books were about chess, including books on the opening (\"Winning Chess Openings\"), the middlegame (\"1001 Winning Chess Sacrifices and Combinations\"), and game collections (\"Great Brilliancy Prize Games of the Chess Masters\"), as well as biographies of Alexander Alekhine, José Raúl Capablanca, Paul Keres, Emanuel Lasker (co-written with Reuben Fine), Paul Morphy (Andrew Soltis completed and published this book years after Reinfeld's death), and Aron Nimzowitsch.\n\nMost of Reinfeld's chess books, such as \"The Complete Chess Player\", were geared toward novice players. Many players received their first introduction to the game through his books. Reinfeld also wrote books for more advanced players, but they sold fewer copies. He certainly had the chess knowledge, research skills and writing ability to write high-quality books, but decided to specialize in basic books for chess beginners, since they sold much better, and he was able to make a living from this.\n\nIn 1996, Reinfeld became the 26th person inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame, and the first inducted primarily for his writing.\n\nAlthough Reinfeld is remembered today mainly for his writing, he was also one of the strongest chess players in the United States from the early 1930s to the early 1940s, after which he withdrew from competition. He was ranked sixth in the country, with a rating of 2593, on the first rating list issued by the United States Chess Federation in 1950, after Reuben Fine, Samuel Reshevsky, Alexander Kevitz, Arthur Dake, and Albert Simonson. Chessmetrics ranks him as the 64th best player in the world in March and April 1943. However, the next year's USCF rating list did not include Reinfeld, as he had withdrawn from competitive play.\n\nAlthough he was never formally awarded an international title in chess, his playing strength during his peak years, measured by his rating, places him at or near the International Master class. International titles were awarded by FIDE, the World Chess Federation, beginning in 1950, while international chess ratings were started in 1970. The United States was one of the first nations to implement a national rating system, using work done by Professor Arpad Elo, and his statistical methods were later adapted to international chess as well. The chessmetrics group, which retrospectively rates chess events and players, endeavoring to estimate the playing strengths of players on an historical basis, places Reinfeld with a peak rating of 2532 in May 1942, good for #70 in the world. His highest world rank on this basis was #64, from March to April 1942. However, it is possible that not all of his important competitive events have been included for calculation.\n\nReinfeld twice won the New York State Championship, in 1931 and 1933. In 1933, he finished all eleven rounds undefeated, ahead of Fine, Anthony Santasiere, and Arnold Denker.\n\nIn 1932, he placed third at the Western Open in Minneapolis, behind only Fine and Reshevsky. He was invited to the very strong Pasadena International tournament and placed 7-10th; the winner was world champion Alexander Alekhine.\n\nIn the 1933 U.S. Olympic Team Qualification tournament, held in New York, he scored 4/10, tied 8-9th, and did not make the team; Fine, Dake and Simonson qualified. Reinfeld won the Marshall Chess Club title in 1934-35.\n\nReinfeld qualified twice for the finals of the U.S. Chess Championship. In 1938, he scored 6½/16, just below the middle, with Reshevsky winning. In 1940, Reinfeld scored 7½/16 for a similar placing, with Reshevsky once again the champion. In that era, only national championships of the Soviet Union featured stronger fields than the American national championship. At Ventnor City 1939, he was second with 8/11; the champion was Milton Hanauer. At Ventnor City 1941, he was again second with 6/9, behind only Jacob Levin. He tied for the title in the 1942 Manhattan Chess Club Championship with Sidney Norman Bernstein.\n\nReinfeld never competed internationally outside the United States. He withdrew from most tournament play after 1942, when his first child was born.\n\nDuring his career, he won tournament games against grandmasters Reshevsky (twice), Fine, Frank Marshall, and Denker, and drew against world champion Alexander Alekhine.\n\nReinfeld wrote his first book about a subject other than chess in 1948—an abridged version of Charles Dickens' famous work \"Oliver Twist\".\n\nReinfeld also wrote books on a number of other subjects, including checkers (\"How to Win at Checkers\"), numismatics (\"Coin Collector's Handbook\"), philately (\"Commemorative Stamps of the U.S.A.\"), geology (\"Treasures of the Earth\"), history (\"Trappers of the West\"), medicine (\"Miracle Drugs and the New Age of Medicine\"), physics (\"Rays Visible and Invisible\"), political science (\"The Biggest Job in the World: The American Presidency\"), and jurisprudence (\"The Great Dissenters: Guardians of Their Country's Laws and Liberties\"). The latter book won the Thomas Alva Edison Foundation Award. In addition to his own name, Reinfeld wrote under the pseudonyms Robert V. Masters and Edward Young. Reinfeld's 19 numismatic works were the subject of an article by Leonard D. Augsberger in the November–December 2000 issue of \"Rare Coin Review\".\n\nFrom the early 1930s, Reinfeld was a part-time chess instructor in the adult education departments at both New York University and Columbia University, where his courses were popular. He served as a consultant to the \"World Book Encyclopedia\" and the Random House College Dictionary. By the late 1940s, he was on the staff of NYU in the School of General Education.\n\nAfter his death, his widow Beatrice Levine donated his library in 1965 to New York University; it contained more than 1,000 books, of which he had written about 260.\n\nOn May 29, 1964, Reinfeld died at the age of 54 in East Meadow, New York, reportedly from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm.\n\n\n\n\n\nOther books by Fred Reinfeld (aka Robert Masters):\n\n"}
{"id": "1797968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797968", "title": "Donkey (Shrek)", "text": "Donkey (Shrek)\n\nDonkey is a fictional fast-talking donkey created by William Steig and adapted by DreamWorks Animation for the \"Shrek\" franchise. The character is voiced by Eddie Murphy.\n\nDonkey first makes his debut at a sale of mythical characters from beloved fairy-tales being sold to the evil Lord Farquaad's knights. An old woman attempts to sell Donkey, but magic pixie dust accidentally is unleashed upon him from a caged fairy, thus giving him the temporary ability to fly. However, the spell unleashed upon Donkey then breaks and he falls to the ground, being chased by Farquaad's knights into the woods, where he meets Shrek. Shrek is at first reluctant to meet the talkative and annoying Donkey, who begins following him around.\n\nDonkey requests to stay with Shrek since he has no one else. Shrek refuses, but finally gives in due to Donkey's constant begging, however, he only allows him to stay outside of his house and only for one night. When Shrek discovers all the fairy tale creatures are residing in his swamp, Donkey denies bringing them to the swamp, and the creatures reveal that Lord Farquaad evicted them there. Seeing how Donkey knows where Farquaad is and is the only one who is willing to help Shrek, he accompanies Shrek to Duloc, Farquaad's kingdom.\n\nWhen they arrive, however, Farquaad has his men try to kill Shrek in an arena to find the perfect champion to find and bring him back Princess Fiona, whom he wants to make his bride. Donkey and Shrek easily defeat Farquaad's men, and Farquaad decides to have Shrek be his champion instead. However, Shrek shows no interest, and only demands his swamp back. When Farquaad offers Shrek a deal to return him his swamp if he agrees to go on the quest, Shrek agrees, and Donkey follows Shrek on his quest to find Fiona. While coming to the castle, Donkey unintentionally catches the unwanted attention of the fire-breathing dragon.\n\nShrek escapes, but Donkey is caught and cornered. Before the dragon attempts to doom him, he tries to avoid his fate by complimenting the dragon, whom he discovers is a female, and the dragon is greatly flattered by Donkey's compliments. She takes him to her lair to be intimate with him. However, Shrek rescues Donkey before things become too personal, and the two narrowly escape with the Princess.\n\nOne night, during camp, Donkey asks Shrek why he hates everyone so much, and Shrek angrily reveals that everyone judges him a scary monster before getting to actually know him. Donkey acknowledges that he already knew that there was more to Shrek's character when they met. Donkey begins to notice a romance between Fiona and Shrek, despite their denials. The next night, Donkey goes inside a windmill to talk to the Princess, only to discover that she becomes an ogre herself after sunset. Shrek overhears them talking, and misinterprets the conversation as Fiona insulting him. The next day, Shrek berates her for what she said and Lord Farquaad comes to take her.\n\nDonkey tries to clear things up with Shrek, but Shrek berates Donkey as well, and even insults him. Hurt and angered, Donkey claims his half of the swamp for his hard work helping him. The two get into a heated fallout, whereupon Donkey finally explains that Fiona did not say that Shrek was ugly. Hearing this, the two make up and become friends. Donkey then has the dragon, whom he reconnected with earlier, take him and Shrek to Fiona's wedding to clear things up with each other. After Shrek saves Fiona from marrying Lord Farquaad and Dragon swallows Farquaad, Donkey sings \"I'm a Believer\" at Shrek and Fiona's wedding reception and takes his love, Dragon, as his wife. On \"Shrek in the Swamp Karaoke Dance Party!\", he sings \"Baby Got Back\" by Sir Mixalot.\n\nDonkey first appears in the film, having been remaining at Shrek's house while Shrek and Fiona were away on their honeymoon. When they return, Shrek tells Donkey to leave, but Donkey is hesitant. Fiona suggests that he should return for Dragon's sake, but then reveals that he is having troubles in his relationship with Dragon as she was acting strangely, but he could not determine the cause, so he decides to move back in with them. However, Shrek makes him leave.\n\nAs Shrek and Fiona begin to have a moment, Donkey abruptly returns and interrupts, claiming that a chariot of royal men have arrived. A messenger appears and tells the newlywed couple that Fiona's parents have invited them to a royal ball to celebrate their marriage, as well as her father to give his royal blessing. Shrek is completely hesitant to accept, as he knows that her parents will never accept them as Ogres, though he eventually gives up and goes, accompanied by Donkey to the Far Far Away kingdom but keeps on asking every second \"Are we there yet?\" Shrek and Fiona keep answering no.\n\nHe then meets Puss in Boots and becomes jealous as he is spending a lot of time with Shrek. By the end of the film they are great friends. At one point in the film, he reveals that he was the donkey traded by Jack for the magic beans, which greatly offended him. He and Shrek ended up drinking the \"Happily Ever After\" potion from the Fairy Godmother's workshop and while Shrek transformed into a human, Donkey became a magnificently bred and handsome white stallion (albeit with the same buck teeth and voice, and on the bottle it says that it is not for those with nervous disorders. After which Shrek and everyone else stares at Donkey as it is strongly hinted that he has one, but Donkey remains clueless as to the reason of why everyone is staring at him.)\n\nDonkey rides Shrek and Puss back to the castle. When Shrek goes inside, Fiona (who had also changed back to human form) comes running out to find Shrek. Donkey then explains why they changed, and that Shrek went inside looking for her. However, Shrek comes back outside heartbroken after Fiona went back in, as Charming and Fairy Godmother beat them both to it: Charming tricking Fiona into thinking he is Shrek, and Fairy Godmother convincing Shrek that Fiona is better off with Charming. Shrek, Donkey and Puss lament in a bar called \"The Poison Apple,\" only to discover Fiona's father Harold secretly talking to Fairy Godmother, revealing the scam. Unfortunately, they are both caught when Donkey's talking habits causes him to accidentally blurt out, completely exposing them. They are eventually caught and captured by Godmother's men, and are arrested. However, the other fairy tale creatures witness this, and break them out, and Gingerbread Man has The Muffin Man create a giant, Godzilla-sized Gingerbread man called \"Mongo,\" which Donkey helps lead to the castle. They succeed with getting in, but Mongo is defeated by the castle's guards.\n\nAfter the trio finished their mission with victory, both return to their normal forms, though Donkey seemed to be quite disappointed at returning to his original form although Shrek told Donkey he still sees Donkey as a noble steed, he later sings \"Livin' La Vida Loca\" along with Puss during the party. After the credits, Donkey and Dragon are reunited and he meets their newborn children, flying flame breathing miniature Donkeys, although he ends up exclaiming: \"I gotta get a job!\". He later sings \"Disco Inferno\" on Far Far Away Idol.\n\nDonkey is enjoying fatherhood in \"Shrek the Third\", and he is still first and foremost Shrek's sidekick and closest friend. When Far Far Away is in need of a new king, Donkey ventures off with Shrek in search of Fiona's cousin Arthur Pendragon, known simply as Artie at the Worcestershire boarding school where he resides. In their magical transport back to Far Far Away (aided by a slightly off-kilter Merlin), Donkey and Puss accidentally switch bodies (most likely from holding hands, Shrek recognizes the switch from his voice), and Puss finds Donkey's quadrupedal form hideous.\n\nDonkey, meanwhile, can't figure out how Puss can walk with such fancy accoutrements. They must put that aside and work together, however, if they are to save Far Far Away from a vindictive Prince Charming. After Charming is defeated, the same sorcerer comes to change them back, it works, but switches their tails (in the next scene, their tails have been corrected as well).\nHe later is seen playing with Shrek's newborn ogre triplets.\n\nDonkey is last seen in the credits performing \"Thank You (Falettinme Be Mice Elf Agin)\", along with Puss, to the ogre triplets.\n\nIn the fourth film, Donkey brings his Donkey children over often, much to Shrek's annoyance at the ensuing daily chaos. He takes part in innocently ruining Shrek's babies' birthday party.\n\nIn Rumplestiltskin's alternate universe, Donkey first meets Shrek when he pulled a wagon the ogre was imprisoned in, forced to sing (reminiscent of a car stereo) by the witches, who whip him to change songs. After being taken to Rumplestiltskin, Shrek escapes and takes Donkey with him, much to the latter's chagrin. At first, Donkey fears Shrek and runs away, but returns after seeing Shrek crying over his babies' toy. Having never seen an ogre cry before, Donkey decides to trust Shrek and befriends him.\n\nDonkey also proves to be highly intelligent, and helps Shrek find a loophole in Rumplestiltskin's contract, comparing Shrek's situation to \"The Twilight Zone\". The duo meet Fiona, Puss, and the rebellion of ogres in the woods, and Donkey befriends Puss in Boots and the ogres as well. Donkey later saves Shrek and Fiona from the Pied Piper (at Puss' urging), and then leads the assault on Rumplestiltskin's castle. He also attempts to seduce the Dragon, having learned from Shrek that she is his wife in the other reality, to stop her from eating Shrek and Fiona but he fails to do so, luckily, none of them are harmed. After Rumplestiltskin is defeated, Donkey sadly watches as Shrek begins to turn into pixie dust when his time is up.\n\nIn the ending, with reality restored, Donkey celebrates Shrek's children's birthday. Later on, he is seen with Dragon, who playfully gobbles him up, and then he, along with the other characters, is last seen making a mud angel.\n\nThis is the first film where Donkey did not perform any pop culture song, although he is briefly heard singing Hit Me with Your Best Shot in one scene.\n\nDonkey was also seen in the 2007 Christmas special \"Shrek The Halls\", where he is trying to help Shrek get his Christmas Spirit. Donkey was voiced by original voice actor Eddie Murphy.\n\nHe also appeared in the 2010 Halloween special \"Scared Shrekless\", where Shrek challenges his friends to spend the night in Lord Farquaad's castle while telling scary stories. He is voiced by Dean Edwards, marking the first time that main cast member Eddie Murphy did not reprise his role. Another appearance Donkey made was in a short, which was released along with \"Shrek Forever After\".\n\nDonkey also appears in \"Shrek the Musical\". The role was originated on Broadway by Tony Award nominee Daniel Breaker. Alan Mingo, Jr. plays the role on the United States national tour, and Richard Blackwood plays the role in the West End production.\n\nDonkey also made an appearance in an episode of \"Father of the Pride\", again voiced by Eddie Murphy. Two Donkeys appeared: One Donkey's stunt double and the other being the actual Donkey. In this episode, Donkey is portrayed as arrogant and self-centered actor, who plays his \"Shrek\" counterpart in the film series. He mistakenly claims that \"Shrek the Third\" is coming out in 2006.\n\nDonkey is the focus of the \"Donkey Live!\" attraction at the Universal Studios Singapore theme park. The show is a digital puppetry presentation in which Donkey, along with a live actor, interacts with the audience in the format of a stand-up comedy performance.\n\nDonkey also appears in many YouTube DreamWorks originals videos, voiced by Jason Lewis.\n\nThe lead character of Rucio from the animated film \"Donkey Xote\" intentionally bears a resemblance to the character of Donkey.\n\n\"Empire\" listed Donkey as No. 21 on their \"50 Best Animated Movie Characters\".\n"}
{"id": "1797969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797969", "title": "Pink Floyd pigs", "text": "Pink Floyd pigs\n\nInflatable flying pigs were one of the staple props of Pink Floyd's live shows. The first balloon was a sow, with a male pig balloon later introduced in their 1987 tour. Pigs appeared numerous times in concerts by the band, promoting concerts and record releases, and on the cover of their 1977 album \"Animals\".\n\nThe image rights for the pigs passed to Roger Waters when he split from the rest of the group, though the pigs continued to be used by both post-Roger Waters Pink Floyd and Roger Waters in their gigs.\n\nThe original Pink Floyd pig was designed by Roger Waters and built in December 1976 by the artist Jeffrey Shaw with help of design team Hipgnosis, in preparation for shooting the cover of the \"Animals\" album. Plans were made to fly the , helium-filled balloon over Battersea Power Station on the first day's photo-shoot, with a marksman prepared to shoot the pig down if it broke free. However, the pig was not launched.\n\nOn the second day, the marksman was not present because no one had told him to return. The pig broke free due to a strong gust of wind on the third day, gaining a lot of press coverage. It disappeared from sight within five minutes, and was spotted by airline pilots at thirty thousand feet in the air. Flights at Heathrow Airport were cancelled as the huge inflatable pig flew through the path of aircraft, eastwards from Britain and out over the English Channel, finally landing on a rural farm in Kent that night.\n\nThe pig was recovered and repaired for the resumption of photography for the album cover, but the sky was cloudless and blue, thus \"boring\". However, the pictures of the sky from the first day were suitable; eventually, the album cover was created using a composite of photos from the first and third days.\n\nThe pig that was originally floated above Battersea Power Station was called \"Algie\".\n\nAfter the album \"Animals\" was released in 1977, Pink Floyd began their \"In the Flesh\" tour. During concerts, the pig appeared around the PA stacks in a cloud of black smoke during performances of \"Pigs (Three Different Ones)\".\n\nThe pig also appeared during each of Pink Floyd's \"The Wall\" concerts, black instead of pink, with a crossed hammers logo on its side. Waters would occasionally refer to it directly before \"Run Like Hell\" (the pig appeared during the end of the previous song, \"In the Flesh\"). A short speech in reference to either the pig or the song was given in every show, with each speech being different; this oddity has been used by bootleggers to identify which date a recording of the Wall tour was made. At the Berlin concert, it was only the head and it had fangs and red eyes.\n\nFor the 1987–1989 tour, the band added testicles to the pig, which David Gilmour has said was an attempt to get around Roger Waters having the image rights for the pig.\n\nThe pig briefly appeared on 10 June 1988 at Beaujoire stadium in Nantes, France; it flew above the crowd for a very short time, after which it was seen to deflate.\n\nThe pig is shown to be flown over the audience during the performance of One of These Days in the Delicate Sound of Thunder concert video, where it appears black with illuminated eyes.\n\nPink Floyd added a 'deflated' pig to Roger Waters' auction of animation art from the film \"The Wall\" at Christie's London, on 21 September 1990, but the lot was withdrawn before the auction started.\n\nDuring the 1994 tour, two warthog-like pigs with protruding tongues were shown at the top of the stage side's speaker towers, sometimes just deflated, sometimes dropped on the ground after \"One of These Days\". This was also during Pulse, but for the VHS, Laserdisc and DVD releases, footage of the pigs falling was edited out.\n\nThe pig made another appearance before the release of \"\", when Capitol Records flew a replica of the original pig from \"Animals\" over the Capitol Records Tower in Hollywood, California.\n\nOne damaged inflatable pig, believed to be from the 1988 Pink Floyd tour, was repaired by Nga Keith and flown again over a concert by the band The String Cheese Incident in Austin, Texas on 20 September 2003. Reportedly purchased by The String Cheese Incident manager Mike Luba from a former Pink Floyd stagehand, the 40-foot pig flew again over the Austin City Limits Music Festival audience during a cover of Pink Floyd's \"Another Brick in the Wall (Part II)\".\n\nDuring their Live 8 reunion with Waters, footage of Algie, over Battersea Power Station, was shown on a giant video screen behind the band.\n\nA replica of Algie was tethered above Battersea Power Station on 26 September 2011 to promote the Why Pink Floyd...? campaign, involving the reissue of the band's first 14 studio albums.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797995", "title": "USS Milwaukee (C-21)", "text": "USS Milwaukee (C-21)\n\nThe second USS \"Milwaukee\" (C-21) was a protected cruiser in the United States Navy. Entering service in 1906, \"Milwaukee\" was deployed to the Pacific Ocean. On 13 January 1917, while aiding a grounded submarine, the cruiser grounded herself. The ship was decommissioned and sold for scrap in 1919.\n\n\"Milwaukee\" was laid down on 30 July 1902 by Union Iron Works, San Francisco, California and launched on 10 September 1904, sponsored by Miss Janet Mitchell, daughter of U.S. Senator John L. Mitchell of Wisconsin. The cruiser was commissioned on 10 December 1906, Commander Charles Augustus Gove in command.\n\nAfter a shakedown cruise off the coast of California and Mexico, from 14 March through 28 May 1907, \"Milwaukee\" departed San Francisco, California on 26 June 1907 and cruised off the coast of San Salvador and Costa Rica and engaging in target practice with the squadron in Magdalena Bay. On 26 March 1908, the cruiser sailed from San Francisco for Bremerton, Washington, where she was placed in reserve on 25 April. Except for a cruise in the summer of 1908 which took her to Hawaii and to Honduras, the ship remained in reserve status at Puget Sound Navy Yard until decommissioned on 3 May 1910.\n\n\"Milwaukee\" was recommissioned in ordinary service on 17 June 1913 and was assigned to the Pacific Reserve Fleet. In the next two years the ship made several brief cruises, one to Honolulu with a detachment of Washington State Naval Militia from 1–22 July 1914, and several along the coast of California. On 18 March 1916, \"Milwaukee\" was detached from the Reserve Fleet and assigned to duty as a tender to destroyers and submarines of the Pacific Fleet. Based at San Diego, the cruiser participated in exercises and maneuvers off the coast, patrolled Mexican waters, transported refugees, and performed survey duty.\n\n\"Milwaukee\" was then overhauled at Mare Island including the installation of heavy machine tools so the cruiser could act as a tender for the Coast Torpedo Force of destroyers and submarines.\n\nUnder the temporary command of Lieutenant William F. Newton acting as Coast Torpedo Force Commander, \"Milwaukee\" sailed on 5 January 1917 for Eureka, California, to assist in salvaging the U.S. Navy submarine which had run aground off Humboldt Bay on 14 December 1916. On 13 January, while attempting to float the submarine and disregarding the recommendations of local mariners, the cruiser stranded in the first line of breakers at Samoa, California, off Eureka. Four hundred twenty-one enlisted and 17 officers were rescued safely by the Humboldt Bay Life-Saving Station and local volunteers but attempts to salvage the ship were unsuccessful. \"H-3\" was ultimately salvaged and returned to service.\n\n\"Milwaukee\" was decommissioned on 6 March 1917 and a storm in November 1918 broke the ship in two. Her name was struck from the Naval Vessel Register 23 June 1919 and her hulk was sold on 5 August 1919.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798003", "title": "Arundel and South Downs (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Arundel and South Downs (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nArundel and South Downs () is a constituency created in 1997, represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Andrew Griffith of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe constituency contains the town of Arundel and villages and hamlets within the South Downs national park boundaries or encircled by the park, the largest of which are Hassocks, Hurstpierpoint, Petworth, Pulborough, Steyning () and Storrington.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary boundaries in West Sussex which Parliament approved in 2007, the Boundary Commission for England formed new constituencies. First contested in 2010 the seat was constituted as follows:\nIn their recommendations, the Boundary Commission for England mooted the name \"Chanctonbury\" after uninhabited Chanctonbury Ring, an ancient hill fort at its centre. This name was rejected during the local inquiry process at which the current name was chosen.\n\nThe 2017 result saw the sixth Conservative win. \n\nSecond-place runners-up have been, listed in order, four times a Liberal Democrat, once the UKIP candidate and once the Labour candidate. In line with regional trends, the highest percentage of the vote among these was the Liberal Democrat in 2010, with 27.9% of the vote.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 50.3% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to remain in the European Union instead of to leave. This was defied in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP, in line with his governing party's promise to adhere to the overall result of that referendum. \n\nThe 2015-2017 status was as the 8th safest of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nThe incumbent Howard Flight MP had national media coverage in the run-up to the 2005 general election due to his deselection requested by the party leader for membership of Conservative Way Forward, lobbying for spending cuts to be more severe than set out in the small cuts in the 2005 manifesto. Flight hinted his preferred cuts would be as implemented by a Conservative government in his view. He had represented the constituency since its creation at the 1997 general election. Anne Marie Morris, Laura Sandys and Nick Herbert put themselves forward for nomination as replacement candidates. The chosen candidate, Nick Herbert, won the seat at the election. Morris and Sandys became MPs elsewhere in 2010.\n\nThe seat and its predecessors have in the 20th century been a Conservative Party stronghold save that the minor contributory Horsham seat to the area's electorate saw victory by 8.6% of the vote over the Labour Party in 1966, followed statistically by a next-most-marginal victory again with the Labour Party as runner-up, in 1950, of 14.4%.\n\nBetween 1974 and 1983, much of the South Downs area was part of the Shoreham constituency, with the town of Arundel remaining in the Arundel constituency.\n\nPrior to 1974, the seat was largely part of the Arundel and Shoreham constituency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798004", "title": "Los Auténticos Decadentes", "text": "Los Auténticos Decadentes\n\nLos Auténticos Decadentes (Spanish for \"The Authentic Decadents\") is an Argentine band that mixes ska with Latin American rhythms. The band was formed around the year 1986 by Cucho and Nito, who invited Gastón to join them.\n\nTheir first hit was \"Veni Raquel\", which set the tone for the irreverence and ironic humor of their later lyrics. Many of their songs are classic anthems of the Argentine nightlife, such as \"Corazón\", \"Loco (Tu Forma de Ser)\", \"Entregá el Marrón\", \"La Guitarra\" and \"El Murguero\".\n\nFor some of their hit songs and videos, the \"Decandentes\" have engaged many Argentine icons such as former soccer referee Guillermo Nimo and the later candombe singer Alberto Castillo. As they draw from traditions such as canzonetta, \"murga\" bands and \"cantina\" songs, they are popular with many generations.\n\n\nThey have 10 studio albums and a few compilations, singles and live albums:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798011", "title": "Ashfield (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ashfield (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAshfield is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament most recently by Lee Anderson of the Conservative Party. The constituency is the English county of Nottinghamshire, East Midlands; located to the north west of the city of Nottingham in the Erewash Valley along the border with neighbouring county Derbyshire. The seat contains the market towns of Kirkby-in-Ashfield, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Huthwaite and Eastwood. The seat is a working class constituency in the heartlands of the Labour Party. Ashfield was part of the Red Wall which collapsed in Boris Johnson's landslide victory at the 2019 general election. In the 2016 referendum on membership of the European Union, Ashfield voted 70% in favour of Brexit.\n\nUntil the Conservatives winning the 2019 general election, almost always a Labour Party seat since its creation for the 1955 general election, the Ashfield constituency has been served by a former Secretary of State, Geoff Hoon, and since its creation until now, for only two years has been served by one member of another party, Tim Smith of the Conservative Party, from 1977 to 1979. Ashfield's 2019 results indicate quite large Conservative majorities. In 2010, the seat had a marginal majority of only 192 over the Liberal Democrats, but this was increased to 8,820 in 2015 after a collapse in the Liberal vote, with the Conservatives finishing second. In 2017, there was another narrow margin of victory for Labour after an 8.9 swing to the Conservatives, who squeezed most of the fairly substantial UKIP vote from two years earlier, and also a large vote for the Ashfield Independents candidate of nearly 10%, but Labour on that occasion did just enough to hang on by just over 400 votes. In 2019, the Independent candidate Jason Zadrozny, who had come close to winning the seat for the Liberal Democrats nine years earlier, came second with a substantial vote, and the Conservatives took the seat despite achieving fewer votes and a smaller percentage of the total vote than in 2017.\n\n1955–1974: The Urban Districts of Eastwood, Kirkby-in-Ashfield, and Sutton-in-Ashfield, and in the Rural District of Basford the parishes of Annesley, Bestwood Park, Brinsley, Felley, Linby, Newstead, Papplewick, and Selston.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban Districts of Hucknall, Kirkby-in-Ashfield, and Sutton-in-Ashfield, and in the Rural District of Basford the parishes of Annesley, Felley, and Selston.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Ashfield wards of Jacksdale, Kirkby-in-Ashfield Central, Kirkby-in-Ashfield East, Kirkby-in-Ashfield West, Selston, Sutton-in-Ashfield Central, Sutton-in-Ashfield East, Sutton-in-Ashfield North, Sutton-in-Ashfield West, Underwood, and Woodhouse, and the Borough of Broxtowe wards of Brinsley, Eastwood East, Eastwood North, and Eastwood South.\n\n2010–present: The District of Ashfield wards of Jacksdale, Kirkby-in-Ashfield Central, Kirkby-in-Ashfield East, Kirkby-in-Ashfield West, Selston, Sutton-in-Ashfield Central, Sutton-in-Ashfield East, Sutton-in-Ashfield North, Sutton-in-Ashfield West, Underwood, and Woodhouse, and the Borough of Broxtowe wards of Brinsley, Eastwood North and Greasley Beauvale, and Eastwood South.\n\nThe former Cabinet minister Geoff Hoon represented the seat for the Labour Party from 1992, when he succeeded the three-term Labour member Frank Haynes, to 2010 when he retired. Ashfield is now represented by Conservative MP Lee Anderson. Formerly, Gloria De Piero came close to losing the seat after a 17.2% swing to the Liberal Democrats in 2010 but increased her majority again in 2015, only for it to be reduced to 441 in 2017.\n\nThe Liberal Democrats had again selected Jason Zadrozny, but he was suspended by the Liberal Democrat party after being arrested and questioned for historic child sex abuse allegations. He was later removed from the election a few weeks prior to the election and was replaced by Philip Smith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798012", "title": "Klaus Meine", "text": "Klaus Meine\n\nKlaus Meine (born May 25, 1948) is a German singer, songwriter and instrumentalist best known as the frontman of the heavy metal band Scorpions. He and guitarist Rudolf Schenker are the only two members of the group to appear on every Scorpions album, though he did not join the band until 1969, four years after they were founded. Meine was placed at No. 22 on Hit Parader's Top Heavy Metal Vocalists of All Time list in 2006.\n\nMeine is noted for his unique tenor voice and polished delivery which ranges from high notes to soft ballads.\n\nMeine wrote most of the lyrics to Scorpions' songs. He and former Scorpions' drummer Herman Rarebell also shared lyrical authorship on some songs, including the major hit \"Rock You Like a Hurricane\". Meine composed some songs alone like \"Wind of Change\", \"You and I\", \"But the Best for You\", \"Does Anyone Know\", \"A Moment in a Million Years\", \"Moment of Glory\", \"I Wanted to Cry\", \"Back to You\", \"My City, My Town\", \"Follow Your Heart\", \"Rock'n' Roll Band\", \"The World We Used To Know\" and \"Who We Are\".\n\nIn 1981, after a world tour and during the recording of the \"Blackout\" album, Meine lost his voice to the extent that he couldn't even speak properly. Meine was advised by his doctor to consider another profession because of his voice problems. However, Scorpions stuck together, and, after therapy and two vocal cord surgeries, Meine's voice recovered.\n\nIn 1990, Meine performed in the \"Live in Berlin\" rendition of Roger Waters' \"The Wall.\" Meine was a highlight singer during the performance. In the year 2000, he was awarded the city of Hannover plaque. and the Cross of Merit First Class (Verdienstkreuz 1. Klasse) of the Lower Saxony Order of Merit.\nIn 2008, Dommenget released a Klaus Meine signature guitar that was given to him on his 60th birthday. On the Humanity World Tour and the Get Your Sting And Blackout World Tour, Meine has used this guitar when performing.\n\nBesides the Scorpions, he has also collaborated on \"Bridge to Heaven\" with Uli Jon Roth; \"Send Me An Angel,\" \"Bigger than life\", \"Keep the World Child\" and \"Jerusalem of Gold\" with the Israeli singer Liel Kolet; in \"Bis wohin reicht mein Leben\" from Rilke Projekt; \"Wind of Change\" with the tenor José Carreras and the song \"Dying for an Angel\" from the album \"The Wicked Symphony\" from Avantasia, as well as in the promotional video clip.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798013", "title": "Cooma Correctional Centre", "text": "Cooma Correctional Centre\n\nCooma Correctional Centre, an Australian minimum to medium prison for males, is located in Cooma, New South Wales. The centre is operated by Corrective Services NSW an agency of the Department of Attorney General and Justice of the Government of New South Wales. The centre detains sentenced and unsentenced felons under New South Wales and/or Commonwealth legislation.\n\nAdjacent to the Correctional Centre is the Corrective Services NSW Museum, showcasing the history of NSW Corrections since 1788.\n\nConstruction of the Cooma Correctional Centre commenced in 1870 from local granite which was quarried from the hill where the Centre now stands. The Centre commenced operations on 1 November 1873 with 31 cells. In 1876 it was reduced to a Police Gaol and then a temporary Lunatic Asylum in 1877. The Centre closed temporarily in the early 1900s.\n\nThe Gaol reopened on 8 March 1957 and was again closed 10 July 1998. Cooma Correctional Centre reopened for the second time in November 2001 following a 20 per cent increase in the prison population between 1995 and 2001.\n\nThe Centre is a minimum and medium security institution for inmates held in protective custody, such as former police officers, prison officers and other high-profile inmates, who would be at risk in the general prison system.\n\nLocated one hour's drive south of Canberra, from Sydney and from Melbourne, the Centre accommodates 160 inmates. There is approximately 53 staff, consisting of 31 custodial officers, 9 overseers and 13 support staff.\n\nWhen not in use, the Cooma Correctional Centre has also been a storage space for the Australian Army and for the Snowy Mountains Scheme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798014", "title": "Vadodara train crash", "text": "Vadodara train crash\n\nThe Vadodara train crash occurred on 21 April 2005 at the village of Samlaya near Vadodara in Gujarat when the \"Sabarmati Express\" passenger train crashed at high speed into a stationary goods train carrying cement.\n\nThe passenger train was carrying over 430 passengers to holy city of Varanasi, when at 3.30am it collided with the cement train which was on the same track. Local citizens rushed to help pull survivors from the wreckage, which did not catch fire. They were joined later in the day by soldiers armed with cutting equipment as well as police and medical personnel.\n\nInitial reports claimed that 24 people had been killed in the crash, but these were subsequently scaled down to 17 or 18, with at least 80 people seriously injured and requiring hospitalisation. The railway authority authorised a payment of 100,000 rupees to the families of the dead, and other provisions for those less injured.\n\nThe cause of the crash was apparently the train's failure to stop at a signal warning the driver that there was an obstacle on the track ahead. The driver, Sita Ram, was killed in the crash, so his testimony will never be known, but the schools of thought on the cause of the crash are that either the driver did not see or did not pay attention to the signal, or that the signalman in Samlaya failed to produce the signal, or finally that the wiring from the box to the signal was faulty, thus mislaying the message.\n\nThe manager of the rail line concerned, M. Z. Ansari provoked controversy, by declaring just a few hours after the crash that \"\"Prima facie the accident appears to have been caused by human error on the part of the staff at B Cabin in Samlaya\"\", which caused much anger amongst the local people aiding the rescue operations, particularly since Mr Ansari was not at the site, and could not have known the full details of what had caused the crash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798018", "title": "The Ad Libs", "text": "The Ad Libs\n\nThe Ad Libs were an American vocal group from Bayonne, New Jersey, United States, primarily active during the early 1960s. Featuring their characteristic female lead vocals with male \"doo-wop\" backing, their 1965 single \"The Boy from New York City\", written by George Davis and John T. Taylor, was their only major Billboard Hot 100 hit.\n\nKnown originally as The Creators, the group formed in 1964 in Bayonne with Hugh Harris, Danny Austin, Dave Watt, Norman Donegan and Mary Ann Thomas. \"The Boy from New York City\" was released in December 1964 and, by March 1965, had peaked at number 8 on the US Hot 100. The group next recorded \"He Ain't No Angel\" which reached number 100 in 1965. The next two singles failed to chart, and The Ad Libs' contract was not renewed by Red Bird Records company. In 1969, they had a last R&B chart hit with the song \"Giving Up\", which peaked at number 34 on the US \"Billboard\" R&B chart. They continued to record into the early 1980s, but never repeated the success of \"The Boy from New York City\". \n\n\"The Boy from New York City\" charted again in the UK for Darts in 1978 and in the US for The Manhattan Transfer in 1981. The song has been used in a commercial for \"Everybody Hates Chris\" on the Paramount Comedy channel in the UK.\n\nDave Watt died on December 5, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798022", "title": "Aylesbury (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Aylesbury (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAylesbury is a constituency created in 1553 — created as a single-member seat in 1885 — represented in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom since 2019 by Rob Butler of the Conservative Party.\n\nAylesbury expanded significantly after World War II, in a diverse way with a similar proportion of this recent development being social housing estates as private estates.\n\nWorkless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 lower than the regional average of 2.4% and national average of 3.8%, at 2.2% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nWhereas the average house price is higher than the national average, in the Aylesbury Vale authority (which largely overlaps) this in the first quarter of 2013 was £262,769, the lowest of the four authorities in Buckinghamshire and this compares to the highest county average of £549,046 in South Bucks District.\n\nThe seat was a much narrower, generally urban borough with two-member status at Westminster from its grant of a limited franchise in 1553 until the passing of the Great Reform Act 1832.\n\nThe Conservative Party has held the seat since 1924, and held it at the 2015 general election with a 50.7% share of the vote. The result made the seat the 133rd safest of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority. The closest result since 1929 was in 1966 when the Labour Party candidate fell 7.4% short of a majority.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 51.8% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\nDavid Lidington, the current incumbent, was the Secretary of State for Justice in Theresa May's cabinet since succeeding Elizabeth Truss in the 2017 cabinet reshuffle, before becoming the effective First Secretary of State in the place of Damian Green in 2018's new year's reshuffle. During the premiership of David Cameron he served as Minister for Europe, campaigning unsuccessfully (in the constituency as well as the whole country) to remain in the EU. From 2007 to 2010 he had been his party's Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.\n\nSir Stanley Reed edited \"The Times of India\" from 1907 until 1924 and received correspondence from the major figures of India such as Mahatma Gandhi. In all he lived in India for fifty years. He was respected in the United Kingdom as an expert on Indian current affairs. He devised the sobriquet for Jaipur, 'the Pink City of India'.\n\n1885–1918: The Sessional Divisions of Aylesbury, Chesham, and Linslade, and parts of the second Sessional Division of Desborough and the Sessional Division of Winslow.\n\n1918–1945: The Borough of Aylesbury, the Urban Districts of Beaconsfield and Chesham, the Rural District of Amersham, the part of the Rural District of Aylesbury not included in the Buckingham Division, in the Rural District of Long Crendon the parish of Towersey, and in the Rural District of Wycombe the parishes of Bledlow, Bradenham, Ellesborough, Great and Little Hampden, Great and Little Kimble, Horsenden, Hughenden, Ilmer, Monks Risborough, Princes Risborough, Radnage, Saunderton, and Wendover.\n\nLinslade was transferred to the Buckingham Division and Amersham and Beaconsfield were transferred from the Wycombe Division.\n\n1945–1950: The House of Commons (Redistribution of Seats) Act 1944 set up Boundaries Commissions to carry out periodic reviews of the distribution of parliamentary constituencies. It also authorised an initial review to subdivide abnormally large constituencies in time for the 1945 election. This was implemented by the Redistribution of Seats Order 1945 under which Buckinghamshire was allocated an additional seat. As a consequence, the parts of the (revised) Rural District of Wycombe in the Aylesbury Division, including Hughenden and Princes Risborough (but not Wendover which had been moved from the Rural District of Wycombe to that of Aylesbury by the reorganisation of local authorities in Buckinghamshire), were transferred to Wycombe.\n\nThere were no further changes and the revised composition of the constituency, after taking account of changes to local authorities, was: The Borough of Aylesbury, the Urban Districts of Beaconsfield and Chesham, the Rural District of Amersham, parts of the Rural Districts of Aylesbury and Wing, and the part of the Rural District of Bullingdon in Buckinghamshire.\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Aylesbury, the Urban District of Chesham, the Rural District of Aylesbury, and in the Rural District of Amersham the parishes of Ashley Green, Chartridge, Cholesbury-cum-St Leonards, Great Missenden, Latimer, Lee, and Little Missenden.\n\nBeaconsfield and southern parts of the Rural District of Amersham (including Amersham itself) were transferred to the new County Constituency of South Buckinghamshire. The boundary with Buckingham was redrawn to align with the northern boundary of the Rural District of Aylesbury.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Aylesbury, the Rural District of Aylesbury, and in the Rural District of Wycombe the parishes of Bledlow-cum-Saunderton, Bradenham, Ellesborough, Great and Little Hampden, Great and Little Kimble, Ibstone, Lacey Green, Longwick-cum-Ilmer, Princes Risborough, Radnage, and Stokenchurch.\n\nParts of the Rural District of Wycombe, including Princes Risborough (but excluding Hughenden), transferred back from Wycombe.  Chesham and the northern part of the Rural District of Amersham included in the new County Constituency of Chesham and Amersham.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Aylesbury Vale wards of Aston Clinton, Aylesbury Central, Bedgrove, Elmhurst, Gatehouse, Grange, Mandeville, Meadowcroft, Oakfield, Southcourt, Wendover, and Weston Turville, the District of Chiltern wards of Ballinger and South Heath, Great Missenden, and Prestwood and Heath End, and the District of Wycombe wards of Bledlow-cum-Saunderton, Icknield, Lacey Green and Hampden, Naphill-cum-Bradenham, Princes Risborough, and Stokenchurch.\n\nGreat Missenden transferred from Chesham and Amersham.  Rural areas to the north and west of the town of Aylesbury transferred to Buckingham.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Aylesbury Vale wards of Aylesbury Central, Bedgrove, Elmhurst, Gatehouse, Grange, Mandeville, Meadowcroft, Oakfield, Southcourt, Wendover, and Weston Turville, the District of Chiltern wards of Ballinger and South Heath, Great Missenden, and Prestwood and Heath End, and the District of Wycombe wards of Bledlow-cum-Saunderton, Icknield, Lacey Green and Hampden, Naphill-cum-Bradenham, Princes Risborough, and Stokenchurch.\n\nMinor changes, including the transfer of District of Aylesbury Vale ward of Aston Clinton to Buckingham.\n\n2010–present: The District of Aylesbury Vale wards of Aston Clinton, Aylesbury Central, Bedgrove, Coldharbour, Elmhurst and Watermead, Gatehouse, Mandeville and Elm Farm, Oakfield, Quarrendon, Southcourt, Walton Court and Hawkslade, and Wendover, and the District of Wycombe wards of Bledlow and Bradenham, Greater Hughenden, Lacey Green, Speen and the Hampdens, Stokenchurch, and Radnage.\n\nHughenden transferred from Wycombe.  Princes Risborough transferred to Buckingham, offset against return of Aston Clinton.  Great Missenden returned to Chesham and Amersham.\n\nThe constituency is based on the large town of Aylesbury and its suburbs as well as a small swathe of villages broken up by woods and cultivated land in the centre of the Chilterns which cover most of Buckinghamshire and parts of three other counties.\n\n\n\nUnder the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, the parliamentary borough of Aylesbury was abolished. The name was transferred to a new, larger, county division of Buckinghamshire, which elected one Member of Parliament (MP).\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; *Conservative:\nStanley Reed\n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n\n \n\n\n \n\n \n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798031", "title": "Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAyr, Carrick, and Cumnock is a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was created for the 2005 general election from parts of the old Ayr and Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley constituencies. It has been represented since 2019 by Allan Dorans of the Scottish National Party.\n\n2005 onwards\n\nAs defined by the Fifth Review of UK Parliament constituencies, the constituency covers the South Ayrshire electoral wards of Ayr Whitletts; Ayr Lochside; Ayr Newton; Ayr Craigie; Ayr Central; Ayr Fort; Ayr Forehill; Ayr Masonhill; Ayr Belmont; Ayr Old Belmont; Ayr Rozelle; Ayr Doonfoot and Seafield; Coylton and Minishant; North Carrick and Maybole West; North Carrick and Maybole East; South Carrick; Girvan Ailsa and Girvan Glendoune plus the East Ayrshire electoral wards of Patna and Dalrymple; Dalmellington; Drongan, Stair and Rankinston; Ochiltree, Skares, Netherthird and Craigens; New Cumnock; Cumnock East and Cumnock West.\n\nThe constituency covers approximately three-fifths of the South Ayrshire council area and one-fifth of the East Ayrshire council area, with the remaining portion of the South Ayrshire council area being covered by the Central Ayrshire constituency. The remainder of East Ayrshire is covered as part of Kilmarnock and Loudoun.\n\nThe 2011 UK Census revealed that the Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock constituency had an above-average unemployment rate at 5.6% compared to the Scottish average of 4.8%, with a significant proportion of residents living in local authority housing at 20.2% compared to the Scottish average of 13.2%. The constituency also had a high proportion of retired people and Church of Scotland Protestants at the Census relative to elsewhere in Scotland, with 19% of those living in the constituency retired (14.9% across Scotland) and 43.3% of constituents recognising their religion as Church of Scotland (32.4% across Scotland). 90% of residents identified their ethnicity as White British, with 99% recognising their ethnicity as White. On indicators such as health, educational attainment, income and social class however the area is a mainly afflunat area as a whole\nAyr is a large coastal resort town located to the north-west of the constituency, consisting of a mixture of council estates and very affluent areas. The town has traditionally been the strongest part of the constituency for the Conservative Party with them winning most elections in the town area, With the SNP, performing well towards the more industrialised area north of the town and the Conservatives performing stronger in the suburbs in the south of the town like Alloway.\n\nTo the south-west of the constituency is the rural region of Carrick, running down the Ayrshire coast between Ayr and Galloway which includes many towns and villages such as Maybole, Turnberry and Girvan. This area has traditionally been more hospitable to the SNP in recent years, in comparison to Ayr, with the Conservatives performing better in rural areas. To the north of Carrick, the village of Coylton has returned a strong vote for Conservative candidates in previous elections.\n\nFurther east, the constituency stretches into the south of the East Ayrshire Council area to cover a set of former mining communities around Cumnock and Doon Valley - Its an area which has traditionally returned a much stronger vote for the SNP and weaker Conservative vote in comparison to elsewhere in the Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock constituency.\n\nIn 2005, approximately two-thirds of the former Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley constituency was attached to half of the former marginal seat of Ayr to form the Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock constituency. Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley had been represented in the UK Parliament by the Labour Party since the 1935 general election, whilst Ayr was represented by the Conservative Party from the 1906 general election until Labour gained the seat during their 1997 landslide electoral victory, from which point onwards the constituency was represented by Labour, with the Conservatives coming in a close second place.\n\nThe newly formed Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock constituency was won by Labour's Sandra Osborne at the 2005 general election with a majority of 9,997 votes (22.2%) ahead of the Conservatives. This was reduced slightly to 9,911 votes (21.6%) in 2010, before the constituency fell to the SNP at the 2015 SNP landslide, with SNP candidate Corri Wilson overturning incumbent Labour MP Sandra Osborne's 13,356 vote lead over the SNP (29.1%), securing the constituency with a majority of 11,265 votes (21.6%). Bill Grant of the Conservatives gained the seat at the 2017 snap general election with a majority of 2,774 votes (6.0%) over Corri Wilson of the SNP. In the 2019 General Election, Allan Dorans of the SNP gained the seat from the Conservatives to take the seat again for a second time\n\nThe constituency overlaps the Scottish Parliamentary constituencies of Ayr and Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley. Ayr has been represented by Conservative MSP John Scott since a by-election in 2000. Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley has been represented by the SNP since the 2011 Scottish Parliamentary election. The current MSP for Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley is Jeane Freeman.\n\nThe Conservatives have been the largest party on South Ayrshire Council since 2003, taking control of the Council in 2006. The Ayr West ward has traditionally been the strongest part of the Council for the Conservative party, with Ayr East also returning a considerable Conservative vote. More recently, the party have also gained votes in the more rural area of Carrick to the south of Ayr, with the SNP forming the largest party in the Ayr North ward.\n\nThe SNP have formed the largest party on East Ayrshire Council since 2012, however, Labour remain the largest party in Cumnock and Doon Valley, the part of East Ayrshire covered by the Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock parliamentary constituency.\n"}
{"id": "1798035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798035", "title": "Davey and Goliath", "text": "Davey and Goliath\n\nDavey and Goliath is an American clay-animated children's television series, whose central characters were created by Art Clokey, Ruth Clokey, and Dick Sutcliffe, and which was produced first by the United Lutheran Church in America and later by the Lutheran Church in America. The show was aimed at a youth audience, and generally dealt with issues such as respect for authority, sharing and prejudice. Eventually these themes included serious issues such as racism, death, religious intolerance and vandalism. Each 15-minute episode features the adventures of Davey Hansen and his \"talking\" dog Goliath (although only Davey and the viewer can hear him speak) as they learn the love of God through everyday occurrences. Many of the episodes also feature Davey's parents John and Elaine, his sister Sally, as well as Davey's friends: Jimmy, Teddy, and Nathaniel in earlier episodes, and Jonathan, Jimmy, Nicky, and Cisco in later ones.\n\nIn general, the characters find themselves in situations that have to be overcome by placing their faith in God. While the show is explicitly faith-based, there is no content specifically about the Lutheran Church, which made broadcasters more comfortable with the idea of an overtly religious mainstream children's show. The only reference to Lutherans in the show was the theme song, an instrumental version of \"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God\", and the Luther rose displayed in the opening theme and end credits.\n\nFollowing Clokey's success with the \"Gumby\" series, \"Davey and Goliath\" premiered in syndication on February 25, 1961 as a Saturday feature, and lasted until 1965. By May 1961, it was reported that \"Millions of children in cities and towns across the United States and Canada are talking about two new television stars, 'Davey and Goliath'.\"\n\nDavey's friends Nathaniel (in the 1960s episodes) and Jonathan (in the 1970s episodes) were black, and were some of the first black characters to appear as friends of a television show's lead character.\n\nAfter its initial run, several 30-minute holiday special episodes were created in the late 1960s. The series then resumed with some new characters in 1971 and continued until 1973. In 1975, a final 30-minute summer episode was created. In 2004, Joe Clokey produced a new special, \"Davey and Goliath's Snowboard Christmas\".\n\nIn 1958, Franklin Clark Fry, president of the United Lutheran Church in America (ULCA), put aside $1 million to fund production of a future television program for children. Soon after, the ULCA contracted with Clokey Productions, Inc., headed by \"Gumby\" creators Art and Ruth Clokey, to create a new children’s show: \"Davey and Goliath\". Scripts were written by children’s book author Nancy Moore in consultation with the church; Moore would go on to pen several episodes of the \"CBS Radio Mystery Theater\" in the 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nThe ULCA and Art Clokey teamed up to make the first \"Davey and Goliath\" episode in 1960, called \"Lost in a Cave\", which would be the first shown in syndication in 1961. In this premiere episode, the figures were entirely clay (with some latex/rubber clothing showing visible seams) and the scenery was also mostly clay. The early voices included Hal Smith (who did a number of voices including Davey's father), Dick Beals (who was Davey's voice) and Ginny Tyler (who did the voice of Sally's and Davey's mother). These three did many other voices as well.\n\nAfter making \"Lost in a Cave\" in 1960, Clokey made \"The Wild Goat\", \"Stranded on an Island\" and \"The Winner\" in early 1961. In these episodes, the clay figures were now clothed with actual cloth, and more model buildings and trees were added, making the episodes look somewhat more realistic. In 1961, the series of these four episodes began airing free on local television stations nationwide, ranging from ABC, NBC and CBS Network affiliates to independent stations. Occasionally, two or more stations in the same market aired the show, at different times. Many stations ran these episodes leading into network Saturday-morning lineups. Other stations ran them in religious Sunday-morning lineups between various evangelists' programs. By 1964, the show was airing in over 90% of U.S. television markets.\n\nBy 1962, the clay figures had established looks and consistent sizes, and the scenery had become slightly more realistic. At the close of episodes, \"The End\" was now displayed in regular print, rather than the Davey & Goliath logo-type print. The background music used on this show originated from sources such as The Capitol Hi-Q Production Music Library, which could be heard on shows like \"The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet\", \"The Donna Reed Show\", \"Dennis The Menace\" and other 1950s sitcoms. A few of these background tracks could also be heard on the late 1950s and early 1960s Hanna-Barbera cartoons.\n\nBy 1963, Nancy Wible was now providing voices for female characters such as Davey's mother. Norma MacMillan (who also provided various cartoon-character voices such as that of Sweet Polly Purebred on \"Underdog\") could also be heard as the voice of numerous child and female characters. Davey's personality had become slightly tougher and, within a couple of episodes, rebellious. Overall, Davey's character remained good-natured. Davey himself was older, but the scope of the show itself involved no big changes. By 1963, production on \"Davey and Goliath\" wound down. In some episodes, in addition to a placard showing \"The End\", a screen showed that the show was produced in association with the United Lutheran Church in America.\n\nIn 1965, a 30-minute Christmas special called \"Christmas Lost and Found\" was aired. The episode was more overtly religious in nature and distanced itself from traditional Christmas figures such as Santa Claus and Rudolph, with religious Christmas songs included. This would also be the last episode featuring Dick Beals as the voice of Davey.\n\nIn 1967, three 30-minute holiday specials were aired: \"The New Year's Promise\" in January, \"Happy Easter\" in March, and \"Halloween Who-Dun-It\" in October. By now the background music changed to an unknown music library. Davey was closer to junior high-school age and was voiced by Norma MacMillan. \"Happy Easter\" confronted the death of a loved one, as Davey's beloved grandmother dies suddenly (off-camera) within hours of a fun-filled visit.\n\nAfter these four specials, the LCA and Clokey Productions began funding another series of episodes in 1969, to begin airing in 1971. At this point, only Norma MacMillan and Hal Smith did voices. In these episodes, Davey was junior high-school aged, and occasionally became rebellious, a very different characterization than the original. Norma MacMillan continued to do the voice of Davey.\n\nDuring this period, racism, gangs, conservation, crime and other serious, timely issues became topics for the series. Episodes included \"Blind Man's Bluff\", \"Finders Keepers\", \"Who's George?\", \"Who Me?\", \"Help!\" and \"The Stopped Clock\". The openings were also changed, featuring updated music. Background music was changed back to The Capitol Hi-Q music of the 1960s series. Midway through this series, Davey's African-American friend Jonathan Reed was introduced. Jonathan came from a nearby city, and both characters went to school together.\n\nIn 1971, another 30-minute special, \"School... Who Needs It?\", was aired. Also that year, the final regular series of episodes was produced. Jonathan appeared in most of the episodes. 1972's episodes included \"Whatshisname?\", \"The Zillion Dollar Combo\", and \"Chicken\". In 1973, production on the series wound down once again, but in 1975 a 30-minute summer camp special called \"To The Rescue\" was aired. This special marked the official end of the production of the series.\n\nAfter an almost 30-year hiatus, \"Davey and Goliath\" were next seen as part of a Mountain Dew soda commercial in 2001, with the royalties from the commercial used to fund the production of the 2004 Christmas special entitled \"Davey & Goliath's Snowboard Christmas\". The holiday special addressed both religious and ethnic diversity as Davey demonstrates his snowboarding expertise to two friends: Sam, a Jewish boy, and Yasmeen, a Muslim girl. During the course of the show, they get caught in an avalanche and end up in a cave. Goliath goes for help while Davey and his new friends find out that they really aren't all that different. The three children wind up learning of each other's holiday celebrations: Jewish Hanukkah, Christian Christmas and Muslim Eid. \n\nBecause most of the original voice cast were no longer alive (Hal Smith died in 1994 and Norma MacMillan in 2001), new voice actors played the roles. This episode took advantage of advances in animation technology using updated graphics and scenery. It was 45 minutes long and aired during a one-hour time slot with commercials. Until that point, commercials had never aired during any episode.\n\nThe program had become a fixture on Saturday and/or Sunday mornings on TV stations (both religious and secular) all around the country during the 1960s and 1970s. In the 1980s, commercial stations began gradually dropping the series. Religious stations picked it up in many markets and ran it in their blocks of Christian children's programs. By 1990, only a handful of commercial stations still aired the series.\n\nThe show continued to air on CatholicTV Network until late in 2009, on Tri-State Christian Television also until 2010 and still airs on a few local Christian television stations.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, when Hallmark Channel aired a Christmas special and the 1967 \"Happy Easter\" episode, they aired the program with several commercial breaks. Hallmark (in its past incarnation as Odyssey Network) had previously aired the entire series commercial-free until 2001. Since then, Hallmark only aired a few of the holiday specials, as well as the Snowboard Christmas special made in 2004. In 2008, iTunes began offering episodes as free downloads. By December of that year, more than 20 episodes had been made available. Today, they cost 99 cents each.\n\nUntil the beginning of October 2018, the series was shown on Trinity Broadcasting Network (TBN) Saturday afternoons, and during the week it was seen on the TBN-owned Smile of a Child network, which is carried on digital subchannels of TBN affiliates.\n\nIn 1986, the Program Source began distributing the first 13 episodes of the series minus \"The Polka Dot Tie\". Also, all five holiday specials and other episodes were made available by Gospel Films Video. These were distributed for sale on VHS tapes. Mail-order services also made a few episodes available.\n\nIn 2006, other episodes were distributed on VHS tapes. In 2012, various episodes were released on DVDs showcasing a particular theme. In 2004 and 2005, most episodes were released on various DVD compilations. At the end of July 2006, it was announced that a new compilation would be released titled \"Davey & Goliath: The Lost Episodes\", which was intended to include the episodes \"Cousin Barney\", \"Polka Dot Tie\", \"Pilgrim Boy\", \"10 Little Indians\", \"Down On The Farm\", \"The Gang\", \"Louder Please\", \"Help\", \"The Watchdogs\" and \"Whatshisname?\" The producers changed the names of two of these episodes in the release (e.g. \"The Gang\" to \"The Jickets\"), making them more politically correct. This compilation was originally scheduled for release on September 19, 2006 by Starlite Video and then postponed several times. In April 2009, Celebrity Video Distribution (CVD) released the collection. \"Polka Dot Tie\", \"The Gang\", \"Help\", \"Louder Please\" and \"Watchdogs\" were unedited. \"Down On The Farm\" was edited by about five seconds to excise a scene showing an unclothed Davey jumping into a lake. \"Pilgrim Boy\" and \"Cousin Barney\" had scenes making negative references to American Indians edited out, adding up to over a minute each. \"10 Little Indians\" had its title changed to \"Ten Pin Alley\", with all references to the word \"Indian\", as well as brief scenes with an Indian boy picking up bowling pins, were deleted, leaving the episode without a minute of footage. \"Whatshisname?\" was edited by one minute to remove a scene in which Davey threatens to pour molasses on another boy and then cover him with feathers.\n\nBridgestone Multimedia Group released the entire series on DVD in Region 1 in 12-volume collections between 2011 and 2012. Released in honor of the series' 50th anniversary, the disc sets were distributed with \"50th Anniversary Edition\" labeling. The series is in a somewhat chronological order. For unknown reasons, the episode \"The Family of God\" was not included in any set.\n\n\n\"Davey and Goliath\" has been parodied several times in \"The Simpsons\".\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798037", "title": "Banbury (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Banbury (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBanbury, also informally known as Banbury and North Oxfordshire or simply North Oxfordshire, is a constituency in Oxfordshire created in 1553 and represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Victoria Prentis of the Conservative Party.\n\nIn terms of electorate Banbury was the 16th largest constituency in the United Kingdom at the time of the 2015 general election.\n\nThe constituency has relatively high economic dependence on agriculture, as well as modern industry (particularly motor sport), research and development, public services and, to a lesser extent, defence. It contains two large market towns, Banbury and Bicester, where the majority of the electorate live. It is a partly rural seat, with the north west of the constituency on the edge of the Cotswolds. The area has experienced significant urban growth and is popular with commuters who favour its fast transport links to Birmingham, Oxford and London by rail, or the M40. More than one in 10 of the population is employed in higher managerial, administrative and professional work, according to ONS 2011 Census figures for England and Wales. In 2015 the seat was home to 4.3% of EU residents and unemployment was 2.9%. There are some Labour voting wards in Banbury itself, but the remainder of the constituency including Bicester and the smaller rural towns and villages are safely Conservative. However the 2017 election saw a particularly strong swing for Labour like many towns in southern England.\n\nThe constituency was created as a parliamentary borough, consisting of the town of Banbury, on 26 January 1554 through the efforts of Henry Stafford and Thomas Denton. It was one of the few in England in the unreformed House of Commons to elect only one Member of Parliament (MP). It as such used the first past the post system. It was the seat represented by Lord North, the Prime Minister during the American War of Independence.\n\nUnder the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, the Parliamentary Borough was abolished and was reconstituted as the Northern or Banbury Division of Oxfordshire when the three-member Parliamentary County of Oxfordshire was divided into the three single-member seats: Banbury, Woodstock and Henley. It comprised the north-western part of Oxfordshire, including Chipping Norton as well as the abolished borough. Banbury has remained as such since then with varying boundaries (see below).\n\nBanbury has post-World War I unbroken Conservative representation and significant local support for the party. Its MPs since 1922 have all served long terms in office and each since 1922 has been knighted. The seat saw a very close election in 1923. The largest vote since 1922 has at each election been for a Conservative. In 2010 Tony Baldry (\"Conservative\") almost doubled his majority. The 2015 result made the seat the 125th safest of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 50.35% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\nFour of the six parties' candidates achieved more than the deposit-retaining threshold of 5% of the vote in 2015. In 2001, the Labour Party candidate Lesley Silbey won the largest opposing-party share of the vote since 1974 — 35% of the vote. Prior to 1974, the highest percentage of votes for the second-placed candidate was in 1945 — 48% of the vote.\n\n1885–1918: The Borough of Banbury, and the Sessional Divisions of Banbury and Bloxham, Chadlington, and Wootton North.\n\n1918–1950: The Boroughs of Banbury, Chipping Norton, and Woodstock, the Urban District of Witney, and the Rural Districts of Banbury, Chipping Norton, Witney, and Woodstock.\n\nThe constituency was expanded to include the western half of the abolished Woodstock Division, including Witney and Woodstock.\n\n1950–1974: The Boroughs of Banbury, Chipping Norton, and Woodstock, the Urban District of Witney, the Rural Districts of Banbury, Chipping Norton, and Witney, and in the Rural District of Ploughley the parishes of Begbroke, Gosford and Water Eaton, Hampton Gay and Poyle, Kidlington, Shipton on Cherwell, Thrupp, and Yarnton.\n\nChange to contents due to reorganisation of rural districts. Marginal loss to the Oxford constituency as a result of the expansion of County Borough of Oxford.\n\n1974–1983: The Boroughs of Banbury, Chipping Norton, and Woodstock, the Urban District of Bicester, the Rural Districts of Banbury and Chipping Norton, and in the Rural District of Ploughley the parishes of Ardley, Bucknell, Caversfield, Chesterton, Cottisford, Finmere, Fringford, Fritwell, Godington, Hardwick with Tusmore, Hethe, Kirtlington, Launton, Lower Heyford, Middleton Stoney, Mixbury, Newton Purcell with Shelswell, Somerton, Souldern, Stoke Lyne, Stratton Audley, and Upper Heyford.\n\nThe Urban and Rural Districts of Witney and the parts of the Rural District of Ploughley, including Kidlington, formed the basis of the new County Constituency of Mid-Oxon.  Bicester and northern parts of the Rural District of Ploughley transferred from Henley.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Cherwell wards of Adderbury, Ambrosden, Ardley, Bicester East, Bicester South, Bicester West, Bloxham, Bodicote, Calthorpe, Chesterton, Cropredy, Deddington, Easington, Fringford, Grimsbury, Hardwick, Heyford, Hook Norton, Hornton, Kirtlington, Launton, Neithrop, Otmoor, Ruscote, Sibford, Steeple Aston, and Wroxton, and the District of West Oxfordshire wards of Bartons and Tackley, and Wootton.\n\nGained a small part of the abolished County Constituency of Mid-Oxon, to the south of Bicester. The bulk of the area comprising the former Urban and Rural Districts of Chipping Norton transferred to the new County Constituency of Witney.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Cherwell wards of Adderbury, Ambrosden, Ardley, Bicester East, Bicester South, Bicester West, Bloxham, Bodicote, Calthorpe, Chesterton, Cropredy, Deddington, Easington, Fringford, Grimsbury, Hardwick, Heyford, Hook Norton, Hornton, Kirtlington, Launton, Neithrop, Otmoor, Ruscote, Sibford, Steeple Aston, and Wroxton.\n\nMinor loss to Witney, comprising the two wards in the District of West Oxfordshire.\n\n2010–present: The District of Cherwell wards of Adderbury, Ambrosden and Chesterton, Banbury Calthorpe, Banbury Easington, Banbury Grimsbury and Castle, Banbury Hardwick, Banbury Neithrop, Banbury Ruscote, Bicester East, Bicester North, Bicester South, Bicester Town, Bicester West, Bloxham and Bodicote, Caversfield, Cropredy, Deddington, Fringford, Hook Norton, Launton, Sibford, The Astons and Heyfords, and Wroxton.\n\nTwo wards in the District of Cherwell to the south of Bicester (Kirtlington and Otmoor) transferred to Henley.\n\nThe constituency currently covers the north-east of Oxfordshire, around Banbury and Bicester and largely corresponds to the Cherwell local government district, with the principal exception of the large village of Kidlington on the outskirts of Oxford which lies in the Oxford West and Abingdon constituency, and some smaller villages to the north-east of Oxford that lie in the Henley constituency.\n\n\"Constituency created 1554. (Even before the Reform Act of 1832, Banbury only returned one member to Parliament)\"\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\nBanbury is bordered to the north-east by Northamptonshire South, to the east by Buckingham, to the south by Witney and Henley constituencies, to the east by Stratford-upon-Avon and to the north-east by Kenilworth and Southam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798050", "title": "Federal Civil Defense Administration", "text": "Federal Civil Defense Administration\n\nThe Federal Civil Defense Administration (FCDA) was organized by President Harry S. Truman on December 1, 1950 through Executive Order 10186, and became an official government agency via the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950 on 12 January 1951. In 1958 the FCDA was superseded by the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization when President Dwight D. Eisenhower merged the FCDA with the Office of Defense Mobilization.\n\nIn its early years, the agency focused on evacuation as a strategy.\n\nThe FCDA was first headed by Millard Caldwell under Truman, then Val Peterson under Eisenhower.\n\nThe predecessor to the FCDA, the Office of Civilian Defense was abolished in June 1945 with the end of World War II. In the period between the end of the World War and 1949, when the Soviet Union detonated their first atomic weapon, little was given to the topic of civil defense. After the Soviets demonstration of their first atomic weapon there was a feeling of the need to \"do something\" throughout both the American public and government. This led to, among many actions, the creation of the Federal Civil Defense Administration by President Harry S. Truman in 1950.\n\nA purported website address for this government organization (rendered as \"The F.C.D.A.\") was briefly referenced in the 1998 American science fiction film \"Deep Impact\" at time marks 0:54:26, and 1:18:50, using a fictional website listed in the movie audio monologue and subtitles as \"http://fcda.gov/\". This seemingly fictional website (as used in the movie) has \"not\" been known to ever exist, and the Internet Archive and WHOIS databases carry no record of it being for any organization, government or .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798060", "title": "Pinky (candy)", "text": "Pinky (candy)\n\nPinky candy is a brand of mint-flavored candy sold by Frente International. Flavors currently available in the new rectangular packaging are Peach, Grape, Tropical & Pine, and Grape Fruit,Coke, and Soda; Pinky also comes in a smaller, rounded container. Pinky is famous largely for its monkey mascot, aptly named Pinky Monkey (ピンキー　モンキー).\n\n"}
{"id": "1798061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798061", "title": "Runnymede and Weybridge (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Runnymede and Weybridge (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRunnymede and Weybridge is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Ben Spencer, a Conservative.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 and was represented from then until 2019 by Philip Hammond, who was Foreign Secretary from 2014 to 2016 and Chancellor of the Exchequer from 2016 to 2019.\n\nThe constituency is in north Surrey and comprises the whole of the area of the Borough of Runnymede plus the town of Weybridge in the Borough of Elmbridge.\n\nThe constituency has the following electoral wards:\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the former constituencies of Chertsey and Walton and North West Surrey.\n\nFrom its creation until 2019, it was represented by Philip Hammond, of the Conservative Party, who served as a Cabinet Minister throughout the Cameron–Clegg coalition before holding in succession two of the Great Offices of State: Foreign Secretary from 2014 to 2016, and Chancellor of the Exchequer from 2016 to 2019.\n\nRunnymede and Weybridge is a Conservative safe seat based on both length of tenure and size of majorities – the narrowest margin of victory was in the 1997 general election, of 19.2% of the vote.\n\nThe constituency consists of Census Output Areas of two local government districts with similar characteristics: a working population whose income is well above the national average and lower than average reliance upon social housing. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the constituency stood as 1.3% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 2.4%. The borough contributing to the bulk of the seat has a low 14.7% of its population without a car, 18.3% of the population without qualifications and a high 29.9% with level 4 qualifications or above.\n\nIn terms of tenure 69.2% of homes are owned outright or on a mortgage as at the 2011 census across Runnymede.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798067", "title": "Rushcliffe (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Rushcliffe (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRushcliffe is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament from 2019 by Ruth Edwards, a Conservative. From 1970 until 2019, it was represented by Kenneth Clarke who was the Father of the House of Commons from 2017 until 2019. He also served under the governments of Margaret Thatcher, John Major and David Cameron respectively. Clarke was one of only 5 ministers to serve throughout the whole 18 years of the governments of Margaret Thatcher and John Major. His political career is the fifth-longest in the modern era and he is a notable figure in British politics. \n\nThe constituency was formed by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 (for first use during the election that year).\n\nSince 1950 it has been a safe seat for the Conservative Party whose members have held it without marginal majorities except for a four-year period when it was held by Labour from 1966 coinciding with the First Wilson Ministry. Unlike other constituencies nearby, such as Broxtowe and Gedling, which were previously held by the Conservatives, they retained Rushcliffe in the 1997 New Labour landslide. \n\n1885–1918: Part of the Sessional Division of Nottingham.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban Districts of Beeston, Carlton, and West Bridgford, the Rural Districts of Leake and Stapleford, the Rural District which consisted of the parishes of Kingston-on-Soar and Ratcliffe-on-Soar, and in the Rural District of Basford the parishes of Awsworth, Barton-in-Fabis, Bilborough, Bradmore, Bunny, Burton Joyce, Clifton-with-Glapton, Colwick, Cossall, Gamston, Gedling, Gotham, Nuthall, Ruddington, South Wilford, Stoke Bardolph, Strelley, Thrumpton, Trowell, and Wollaton.\n\n1950–1955: The Urban Districts of Beeston and Stapleford, and West Bridgford, and in the Rural District of Basford the parishes of Barton-in-Fabis, Bilborough, Bradmore, Bunny, Clifton with Glapton, Colwick, Costock, East Leake, Gedling, Gotham, Kingston-on-Soar, Normanton-on-Soar, Ratcliffe-on-Soar, Rempstone, Ruddington, Stanford-on-Soar, Sutton Bonington, Thorpe-in-the-Glebe, Thrumpton, West Leake, Willoughby-on-the-Wolds, and Wysall.\n\n1955–1974: The Urban District of Beeston and Stapleford, and in the Rural District of Basford the parishes of Barton-in-Fabis, Bilborough, Bradmore, Bunny, Colwick, Costock, East Leake, Gedling, Gotham, Kingston-on-Soar, Normanton-on-Soar, Ratcliffe-on-Soar, Rempstone, Ruddington, Stanford-on-Soar, Sutton Bonington, Thorpe-in-the-Glebe, Thrumpton, West Leake, Willoughby-on-the-Wolds, and Wysall.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban District of West Bridgford, the Rural District of Bingham, and in the Rural District of Basford the parishes of Barton-in-Fabis, Bradmore, Bunny, Costock, East Leake, Gotham, Kingston on Soar, Normanton on Soar, Ratcliffe on Soar, Rempstone, Ruddington, Stanford on Soar, Sutton Bonington, Thorpe in the Glebe, Thrumpton, West Leake, Willoughby-on-the-Wolds, and Wysall.\n\n1983–2010: The Borough of Rushcliffe.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Rushcliffe wards of Abbey, Compton Acres, Cotgrave, Edwalton Village, Gamston, Gotham, Keyworth North, Keyworth South, Lady Bay, Leake, Lutterell, Manvers, Melton, Musters, Nevile, Ruddington, Soar Valley, Stanford, Tollerton, Trent, Trent Bridge, Wiverton, and Wolds.\n\nThe main town in the constituency is West Bridgford, which is part of the Greater Nottingham urban area, and includes the Trent Bridge cricket ground and Nottingham Forest F.C., and has some strong Labour wards like Trent Bridge itself and Lady Bay. The remainder of the constituency is predominantly rural and Conservative, including the villages of Cotgrave, East Leake, Sutton Bonington, Keyworth, Radcliffe on Trent and Ruddington.\n\nThe constituency consists of Census Output Areas of one local government district with a working population whose income is close to the national average and has lower than average reliance upon social housing. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the constituency stood as 1.9% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 3.5%. The borough contributing to the bulk of the seat has a low 15.1% of its population without a car, 16.4% of the population without qualifications and a very high 39.0% with level 4 qualifications or above. In terms of tenure a high 76.7% of homes are owned outright or on a mortgage as at the 2011 census across the district.\n\nClarke was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1993 to 1997, ran to be party leader during opposition under the Blair Ministry, then became Shadow Secretary of State for Business from 2009 to 2010 and then took \"de facto\" joint role of Secretary of State for Justice and Lord Chancellor from 2010 as the Lord Chancellor lost in the previous administration the requirement to be a leading judge and sit in the judiciary's highest court as well as a conventionally apolitical role in the House of Lords, in which the holder no longer sits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798073", "title": "Santa Rosa, Rio Grande do Sul", "text": "Santa Rosa, Rio Grande do Sul\n\nSanta Rosa is a municipality in the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul, located at latitude 27º52'15\" and longitude 54º28'53\" at a height of 277 meters above sea level. It has an area of 488.42 km². Its estimated population is 68595 (2010). It is known as the \"National Cradle of Soybeans\".\nSanta Rosa was created as a colony of European immigrants in 1915, mainly Italians, Germans and Russians. The German dialect traditionally spoken in the region is Riograndenser Hunsrückisch.\n\nThe city is the birthplace of the popular Brazilian celebrity Maria da Graça Meneghel known as Xuxa and Brazilian World Cup Winning Goalkeeper Cláudio Taffarel.\nThe city is served by Luís Alberto Lehr Airport.\n\n\nThe Santa Rosense Union of Secondary Students (USES) exists since 1959, is the entity formed by high school and representing students from all elementary schools, secondary, technical, vocational and college preparatory school in Santa Rosa. Is USES who meets the student unions of public and private schools, in addition to state and local entities in the fight for a quality education, representing and defending the national rights of youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798074", "title": "Wally Whyton", "text": "Wally Whyton\n\nWallace Victor \"Wally\" Whyton (23 September 1929 – 22 January 1997) was a British musician, songwriter and radio and TV personality.\n\nBorn in London, England, Whyton grew up listening to jazz, blues and folk music, and learned to play first the piano, then trombone, and finally guitar. In 1956, while working in advertising, he formed the Vipers Skiffle Group, which became the resident band at the 2i's Coffee Bar in Soho. After a number of hit records produced by George Martin, including Whyton's song \"Don't You Rock Me Daddy-O\", the group split up in 1960, and Whyton moved into television work.\n\nPhotogenic and with a soft-spoken voice, Whyton normally wore a cardigan as he presented the children's programmes, \"Small Time\", \"Lucky Dip\", \"Tuesday Rendezvous\" (on which The Beatles made their second television appearance, performing \"Love Me Do\"), \"Five O'Clock Club\", \"Ollie and Fred's Five O'Clock Club\" and \"Five O'Clock Funfair\" for Associated-Rediffusion and Rediffusion London. Whyton normally performed a song while playing his guitar on the children's shows. He was also a presenter on the BBC's Play School (1966) and Play Away (1973).\n\nSubsequently, he was the host of Granada TV's \"Time for a Laugh\". From the 1960s to the 1990s he was a presenter on BBC Radio 2, mainly fronting folk and country music programmes. One of these was \"Hello Folk\" and another \"Country Club\". In the 1970s \"Hello Folk\" was rebroadcast on BFBS. In 1976, he toured Germany, visiting the Forces Folk clubs presenting The McCalmans and Mike Harding.\n\nDespite his busy schedule as a broadcaster, Whyton continued to find time to record. As well as recording an album of Woody Guthrie songs, \"Children's Songs of Woody Guthrie\", he wrote and recorded the conservation anthem, \"Leave Them a Flower\".\n\nThe cover of Whyton's \"It's Me, Mum!\" appeared on Steve Carter's \"Worst Album Covers Ever Created\".\n\nWhyton presented a regular show for the BBC World Service until a few weeks before his death in January 1997.\n\n\"It's Me, Mum!\" (sic) (Fontana, STL5476) was released in 1968 and featured Whyton playing 12-string guitar and singing contemporary and traditional folk songs from the United States, an old music-hall song, and a couple of his own songs: \"Selma, Alabama (April 1965)\", and \"When Winter Comes\". Also appearing were John Mark (guitar), Phil Bates (bass) and Terry Cox (drums).\n\n"}
{"id": "1798084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798084", "title": "Ryedale (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ryedale (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRyedale was a constituency in North Yorkshire represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. It was created in 1983 and abolished in 2010.\n\nThis was traditionally a safe Conservative seat, although it was briefly taken by Elizabeth Shields for the Liberal Party, following a by-election in 1986 held following the death of MP John Spence.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Ryedale wards of Amotherby, Ampleforth, Birdsall, Clifton Without, Dales, Ebberston, Haxby North East, Haxby West, Helmsley, Hovingham, Huntington North, Huntington South, Kirby Misperton, Kirkbymoorside, Malton, New Earswick, Norton, Pickering, Rawcliffe, Rillington, Sherburn, Sheriff Hutton, Skelton, Stockton and Bossall, Strensall, Thornton Dale, and Wigginton, the District of Hambleton wards of Crayke, Easingwold, Helperby, Huby-Sutton, Shipton, Stillington, and Tollerton, and the Borough of Scarborough wards of Filey and Hertford.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Ryedale wards of Amotherby, Ampleforth, Birdsall, Dales, Ebberston, Helmsley, Hovingham, Huntington North, Huntington South, Kirby Misperton, Kirkbymoorside, Malton, Norton, Osbaldwick and Heworth, Pickering, Rillington, Sherburn, Sheriff Hutton, Stockton and Bosall, Strensall, and Thornton Dale, and the Borough of Scarborough wards of Filey and Hertford.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1983 and at the time of its abolition in 2010, covered Ryedale (including Malton, Norton-on-Derwent, Helmsley and Pickering), Filey and the north eastern suburbs of York (including Huntington, Strensall, Osbaldwick and Heworth Without).\n\nFollowing the Boundary Commission for England's review of parliamentary representation in North Yorkshire, Ryedale constituency was abolished, with its electoral wards being used to form a new Thirsk and Malton seat. These changes were implemented in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798087", "title": "Thomas M. King", "text": "Thomas M. King\n\nThomas Mulvihill King, S.J. (born May 9, 1929 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, died June 23, 2009 in Washington, D.C.) was a professor of theology at Georgetown University. King entered the Society of Jesus in 1951 after completing undergraduate studies in English at the University of Pittsburgh. As a Jesuit, he undertook further studies at Fordham University and Woodstock College and was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1964. After completing a doctorate in theology at the University of Strasbourg in 1968, King began teaching at Georgetown. A member of the American Teilhard Association, he has written or edited several books on Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, including \"Teilhard's Mysticism of Knowing\" (1981), \"Teilhard and the Unity of Knowledge\" (1983) \"Teilhard de Chardin\" (1988), \"The Letters of Teilhard de Chardin and Lucile Swan\" (1993) and \"Teilhard's Mass\" (2005). His other works include \"Sartre and the Sacred\" (1974), \"Enchantments: Religion and the Power of the Word\" (1989), \"Merton: Mystic at the Center of America\" (1992) and \"Jung's Four and Some Philosophers\" (1999). He also wrote the introduction for a new 2004 translation by Sion Cowell of Teilhard's \"The Divine Milieu.\"\n\nFather King was also well-known among Georgetown students and alumni for offering Mass at 11:15 p.m. each night from Sunday to Friday in Dahlgren Chapel on Georgetown's main campus, a tradition he started in 1969. In 1999, \"The Hoya\", Georgetown's student newspaper, declared King \"Georgetown's Man of the Century\", noting that \"no one has had a more significant presence on campus and effect on students than Father King.\". In addition, Father King was presented as third in a series of cover stories regarding Jesuit identity in the \"Georgetown Voice\" on September 27, 2001.\n\nIn line with Catholic moral teaching, he took a strong stance against abortion and euthanasia and was the co-founder of the University Faculty of Life, a group that seeks to create dialogue on life issues in the academic community. King was also a member of Pax Christi and opposed war and capital punishment, though he stressed the peaceful prevention of conflict over strict pacifism.\n\nFr. King turned 80 on May 9, 2009. Many different groups of friends, colleagues, and former students came together to celebrate his 80th birthday and 40 years of 11:15pm Mass over the months of May and June. On June 23, 2009, King died of heart attack in his bedroom at the Jesuit Residence at Georgetown University in Washington, DC.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798089", "title": "Saffron Walden (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Saffron Walden (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSaffron Walden is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2017 by Kemi Badenoch, a Conservative. She is currently the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury and a minister in the GEO. \n\nSaffron Walden was one of eight single-member divisions of Essex (later classified as county constituencies) created by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, replacing the three two member divisions of East, South and West Essex.\n\nThe boundaries were redrawn under the Representation of the People Act 1918, then remaining virtually unchanged until changes brought in for the 2010 general election by the Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies.\n\nThis has been a Conservative safe seat based on election results since 1922, in which period the majorities have occasionally been marginal, but with the seat now boasting a majority of over 24,000, with Labour finishing second in the seat in the 2017 general election, the first time this has happened since 1970.\n\n1885–1918: The Borough of Saffron Walden, the Sessional Divisions of Freshwell, Hinckford North, and Walden, part of the Sessional Division of Hinckford South (Halstead Bench), the part of the Borough of Sudbury in the county of Essex, and the parish of Thaxted.\n\nFormed from northern parts of the abolished West Division of Essex including the Municipal Borough of Saffron Walden, and northern parts of the abolished East Division.\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Saffron Walden, the Urban District of Halstead, and the Rural Districts of Belchamp, Bumpstead, Dunmow, Halstead, Saffron Walden, and Stansted.\n\nGained northern parts of Epping, including Great Dunmow and Hatfield Broad Oak, and northern parts of Maldon, including Halstead.  Other minor changes.\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Saffron Walden, the Urban District of Halstead, the Rural Districts of Dunmow, Halstead, and Saffron Walden, and in the Rural District of Braintree the parishes of Bardfield Saling and Great Bardfield.\n\nLocal authorities re-organised – only nominal changes to boundaries of constituency.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Saffron Walden, the Urban District of Halstead, and the Rural Districts of Dunmow, Halstead, and Saffron Walden.\n\nThe two small parishes within the Rural District of Braintree included in the new County Constituency of Braintree.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Uttlesford, and the District of Braintree wards of Bumpstead, Castle Hedingham, Colne Engaine and Greenstead Green, Earls Colne, Gosfield, Halstead St Andrews, Halstead Trinity, Sible Hedingham, Stour Valley Central, Stour Valley North, Stour Valley South, Upper Colne, and Yeldham.\n\nLocal authorities re-organised – no changes to boundaries of constituency.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Uttlesford, and the District of Braintree wards of Bumpstead, Castle Hedingham, Colne Engaine and Greenstead Green, Halstead St Andrews, Halstead Trinity, Sible Hedingham, Stour Valley Central, Stour Valley North, Stour Valley South, Upper Colne, and Yeldham.\n\nTwo small wards (Earls Colne and Gosfield) transferred to Braintree.\n\n2010–present: The District of Uttlesford, and the Borough of Chelmsford wards of Boreham and The Leighs, Broomfield and The Walthams, Chelmsford Rural West, and Writtle.\n\nThe 2010 redistribution resulted in a major change, with eastern areas in the District of Braintree, including Halstead, being transferred to the County Constituency of Braintree. Extended southwards to incorporate northern and western rural areas of the Borough of Chelmsford, including Writtle, which were transferred from the abolished County Constituency of West Chelmsford.\n\nThe constituency is by far the largest and most rural in Essex, and covers the entire north-west corner of the county: an area of almost . It borders Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire, and also extends deep into the middle of Essex near Chelmsford.\n\nTwo medium-sized market towns, Saffron Walden and Dunmow are in the constituency. Both of these have historic links, and are busy and regionally visitor-drawing towns in the South East.\n\nThe largest single source of employment in the constituency is Stansted Airport, while there are also a host of small businesses, many of them high-tech, along and at the ends of the London-Cambridge corridor.\n\nThe constituency consists of Census Output Areas of two local government districts with similar characteristics. Uttlesford district forms the bulk, and has a working population whose income is close to the national average and much lower than average reliance upon social housing. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the constituency stood at 1.6% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 2.4%. The borough contributing to the bulk of the seat has a very low 10.1% of its population without a car, 17.7% of the population without qualifications and a high 31.9% had level 4 qualifications or above. In terms of tenure 71.6% of homes are owned outright or on a mortgage as at the 2011 census across the Uttlesford district.\n\nSince the snap election in 2017, this safe Conservative seat has been represented by Kemi Badenoch. It was held for many years by former Chancellor of the Exchequer Rab Butler and by former Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons Sir Alan Haselhurst.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798095", "title": "Salford (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Salford (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSalford was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. The borough constituency dated from 1997 and was abolished in 2010, replaced by Salford and Eccles.\n\nA parliamentary borough of the same name existed from 1832 to 1885. The historic constituency returned two members of parliament from 1868.\n\nIn 1832 the constituency was formed from the townships of Broughton, Pendleton and Salford, with part of the township of Pendlebury. The exact boundaries were defined in the Parliamentary Boundaries Act 1832:\nFrom the Northernmost Point at which the Boundary of the Township of Salford meets the Boundary of the Township of Broughton, Northward, along the Boundary of the Township of Broughton, to the Point at which the same meets the Boundary of the Township of Pendleton; thence, Westward, along the Boundary of the Township of Pendleton to the Point at which the same meets the Boundary of the detached Portion of the Township of Pendlebury; thence, Southward, along the Boundary of the detached Portion of the Township of Pendlebury to the Point at which the same meets the Boundary of the Township of Salford; thence, Westward, along the Boundary of the Township of Salford to the Point first described.\n\nIn 1883 the detached portion of Pendlebury was absorbed by Pendleton.\n\nThe constituency was re-created for the 1997 election. It boundaries were defined by the Parliamentary Constituencies (England) Order 1995, and consisted of eight wards of the City of Salford: Blackfriars, Broughton, Claremont, Kersal, Langworthy, Ordsall, Pendleton, and Weaste & Seedley.\n\nA very safe Labour seat which had some of the UK's most deprived areas, typified by council estates like Ordsall, Pendleton and Langworthy, which are now due for apparent redevelopment. Higher Broughton has a considerable Jewish population and has some very decent residential housing, but even here Labour are usually in the lead at local level; the Conservatives, like all the other neighbouring Manchester seats, are now in third place in General Elections.\n\nFollowing its review of parliamentary representation in Greater Manchester the Boundary Commission for England recommended that Salford be split into three new constituencies and this was enacted in 2010:\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798101", "title": "Disneyland Resort line", "text": "Disneyland Resort line\n\nThe Disneyland Resort line is a heavy rail MTR line connecting Sunny Bay to the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, coloured pink on the network diagram. It is the seventh line of the former MTR network before the merger of MTR and KCR, and the world's first metro line designed to service a Disney theme park. There are only two stations on this line, Sunny Bay and Disneyland Resort, and the line operates as a shuttle service between these two stations. Sunny Bay station is an interchange station with the Tung Chung line between Tsing Yi and Tung Chung stations.\n\nThe rail link was constructed by Gammon Construction and completed in April 2005.\n\nIn preparation for the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland on 12 September, the line started operating on 1 August 2005. The rolling stock is distinctive on account of its Mickey Mouse windows, interior couch seating, and Disneyland figurines displayed in the carriages.\n\nOn 4 September 2005, the Disneyland Resort line served nearly 40,000 passengers. Peak patronage occurs around 08:00-10:00 and 21:00–23:00 hours, at the parks' respective opening and closing times.\n\nThe Disneyland Resort line is 3.5 kilometres long, and has a travel time of around 6 minutes. Its track gauge is . The MTR designed a new driverless train and produced it by refitting existing M-Trains for the line which is designed with a Disney theme in mind. Bronze statues of well-known Disney characters, such as Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck, are included inside of the trains, and the windows are shaped not like squares but like Mickey Mouse's head.\n\nAll of the trains used on the Disneyland Resort line were originally ordered from 1994-1998 as subtype H-Stock train (Phase 3 EMU, A/C 270-291, B/C 486-496). MTR contracted Alstom for these trains, but they were made in England (as compared to the Phase 1 and 2 trains ordered from 1979–1989 and made by Metro-Cammell (also in England) which was acquired by GEC Alsthom (now Alstom) in 1989). Units A/C274 A/C281 A/C284 A/C289 A/C291 and B/C490 are now used on the Disneyland Resort line.\n\nThese trains are normally operated automatically without drivers; this is a first for the MTR network, followed by the South Island line. However, unlike the South Island Line, the operator's cab area has been retained, visible through the glass window at the train ends.\n\nThis is a list of the stations on the Disneyland Resort line.\n\nDisneyland Resort station is designed in a Victorian style. On the other hand, Sunny Bay station is designed in a futuristic style. It was intended for passengers travelling along this line to experience a feeling of time travel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798103", "title": "Salisbury (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Salisbury (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSalisbury is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by John Glen, a Conservative. He is currently the Economic Secretary to the Treasury.\n\nFrom 1295, (the Model Parliament) a form of this constituency on a narrower area, the Parliamentary borough of Salisbury, returned two MPs to the House of Commons of England Elections were held using the bloc vote system. This afforded the ability for wealthy male townsfolk who owned property rated at more than £2 a year liability in Land Tax to vote in the county and borough (if they met the requirements of both systems). The franchise (right to vote) in the town was generally restricted to male tradespersons and professionals within the central town wards, however in medieval elections would have been the aldermen.\n\nThe borough constituency co-existed with a neighbouring minuscule-electorate seat described towards its Great Reform Act abolition as a rotten borough: Old Sarum that covered the mostly abandoned Roman citadel to the northeast.\n\nUnder the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, the borough's representation was reduced to one member. The parliamentary borough of Salisbury was abolished for the 1918 general election however the name transferred immediately to a new county division.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Boroughs of Salisbury and Wilton, and the Rural Districts of Amesbury, Salisbury, Tisbury, and Wilton.\n\n1950–1983: The Municipal Boroughs of Salisbury and Wilton, and the Rural Districts of Amesbury, and Salisbury and Wilton.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Salisbury wards of Alderbury, Amesbury, Bemerton, Bishopdown, Bulford, Chalke Valley, Donhead, Downton, Durrington, Ebble, Fisherton and Bemerton Village, Fonthill, Fovant, Harnham, Idmiston, Laverstock, Milford, Nadder, Redlynch, St Edmund, St Mark, St Martin, St Paul, Stratford, Till Valley, Tisbury, Upper Bourne, Whiteparish, Wilton, Winterbourne, Winterslow, Woodford Valley, and Wylye.\n\n2010–present: The District of Salisbury wards of Alderbury and Whiteparish, Amesbury East, Amesbury West, Bemerton, Bishopdown, Chalke Valley, Downton and Redlynch, Ebble, Fisherton and Bemerton Village, Harnham East, Harnham West, Laverstock, Lower Wylye and Woodford Valley, St Edmund and Milford, St Mark and Stratford, St Martin and Milford, St Paul, Till Valley and Wylye, Upper Bourne, Idmiston and Winterbourne, Wilton, and Winterslow.\n\nThe constituency is based around the city of Salisbury in Wiltshire. A large portion of the former Salisbury district, excluding a part to the west, is included within the constituency.\n\nDownton (listed above) was a former borough constituency until abolished as a rotten borough, like Old Sarum, in 1832.\n\nAccording to a local tradition, the Member of Parliament for Salisbury sings the song \"The Vly be on the Turmut\" from the balcony of the White Hart Hotel in St John's Street after winning each Parliamentary election.\n\nThe constituency consists of Census Output Areas of one local government district with a working population whose income is close to the national average and lower than average reliance upon social housing. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the constituency stood as 1.6% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 2.5%.\n\nThe rural county as a whole has a low 14.8% of its population without a car, 18.6% of the population without qualifications and a high 29.5% with level 4 qualifications or above. In terms of tenure across the whole county 67.5% of homes are owned outright or on a mortgage as at the 2011 census.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798104", "title": "Scarborough and Whitby (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Scarborough and Whitby (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nScarborough and Whitby is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Robert Goodwill, a Conservative.\n\nThe constituency name has had two separate periods of existence. \nA Scarborough and Whitby division of the North Riding of Yorkshire was created by the Representation of the People Act 1918 after the Boundary Commission of 1917 and first elected a Member of Parliament in the 1918 general election. This division took the entirety of the abolished Parliamentary borough of Scarborough together with the majority of the previous Whitby division and a very small part of Cleveland division. It had a population, in the middle of 1914, of 72,979. The Boundary Commission had initially recommended that the division simply be called 'Scarborough' but an amendment moved by the Government during enactment of their recommendations enacted it from the outset as Scarborough and Whitby. Throughout its 56-year first creation which allowed a full franchise for all resident men it was represented by a Conservative, including during the Attlee Ministry and First Wilson Ministry.\n\nThe Initial Report of the Boundary Commission in 1947 made minor changes to the constituency, in line with local government changes which had abolished Guisborough Rural District in 1932 and absorbed it into Whitby Rural District. The new constituency again included the whole of Whitby Rural District, and so gained Hinderwell which was previously within Cleveland constituency. It had an electorate of 67,884 on 15 October 1946. No change was made in the First Periodical Report of the Boundary Commission in 1954.\n\nThe Second Periodical Report, published in 1969 recommended that the constituency be divided and its recommendations came into effect at the February 1974 general election abolishing the seat. The Scarborough constituency was thereby re-established, and Whitby joined with Guisborough, Loftus, Saltburn and Brotton to form Cleveland and Whitby.\n\nBy the beginning of the Third Periodical Report of the Boundary Commission, Cleveland had been created as a new county, which would normally prevent the Commission from recommending a constituency crossing the border. Several representations were made to the Commission to try to preserve Cleveland and Whitby constituency, but the Commission found itself unable to accept them and recommended putting Scarborough and Whitby together in a new Scarborough despite including the other coastal town, its old name, including Whitby, was finally reinstated in the next review. This constituency did not include Pickering, which was placed in a new Ryedale constituency.\n\nIn the Fourth Periodical Report of the Boundary Commission for England, published in 1995 and coming into effect at the 1997 general election, the Scarborough constituency was renamed as Scarborough and Whitby with no change in boundaries.\n\nWhen the constituency was recreated in 1997, the Labour candidate, Lawrie Quinn, defeated John Sykes, the sitting Conservative MP – one of many locally and national press-predicted unlikely gains for Labour in their landslide victory of that year. The current incumbent, Robert Goodwill, defeated Quinn in 2005 to regain the seat for Conservatives.\n\nSir Herbert Paul Latham was the first sitting Member of Parliament serving in the army to have been court martialled since 1815.\n\nSir Alexander Spearman served as the Parliamentary Private Secretary to the President of the Board of Trade from 1951 to 1952.\n\nRobert Goodwill served in as a junior minister in both the Cameron–Clegg coalition and the second Cameron ministry.\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Scarborough, the Urban Districts of Pickering, Scalby, and Whitby, the Rural Districts of Scarborough and Whitby, and parts of the Rural District of Pickering and Guisborough.\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Scarborough, the Urban Districts of Pickering, Scalby, and Whitby, and the Rural Districts of Scarborough and Whitby.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Scarborough wards of Ayton, Castle, Cayton, Central, Danby, Derwent, Eastfield, Eskdaleside, Falsgrave, Fylingdales, Lindhead, Mayfield, Mulgrave, Newby, Northstead, Scalby, Seamer, Streonshalh, Weaponness, and Woodlands.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Scarborough wards of Castle, Cayton, Central, Danby, Derwent Valley, Eastfield, Esk Valley, Falsgrave Park, Fylingdales, Lindhead, Mayfield, Mulgrave, Newby, North Bay, Northstead, Ramshill, Scalby Hackness and Staintondale, Seamer, Stepney, Streonshalh, Weaponness, Whitby West Cliff, and Woodlands.\n\nThe constituency covers the towns of Scarborough and Whitby. Both of these are seaside towns in North Yorkshire on the north-east coast of England. However, the constituency is largely rural and semi-rural, such issues tend to influence voting preferences, with Scarborough itself mostly Labour and the rural areas Conservative. At the last two general elections, it was the most marginal seat in North Yorkshire.\n\nThe constituency consists of Census Output Areas of a Borough with a working population whose income is close to the national average and lower than average reliance upon social housing. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the constituency stood as 4.8% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 4.7%. The borough has a medium-high 28.8% of its population without a car, a high 26.0% of the population without qualifications and a medium 22.7% with level 4 qualifications or above.\n\nIn terms of tenure a high 75.8% of homes are owned outright or on a mortgage as at the 2011 census across the borough.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n\nCraig, F. W. S. (1983). British parliamentary election results 1918-1949 (3 ed.). Chichester: Parliamentary Research Services. .\n"}
{"id": "1798106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798106", "title": "Order of the Netherlands Lion", "text": "Order of the Netherlands Lion\n\nThe Order of the Netherlands Lion, also referred to as the Order of the Lion of the Netherlands (, ) is a Dutch order of chivalry founded by King William I of the Netherlands on 29 September 1815.\n\nThe Order of the Netherlands Lion was until recently awarded upon eminent individuals from all walks of life, including generals, ministers of the crown, mayors of large towns, professors and leading scientists, industrialists, high-ranking civil servants, presiding judges and renowned artists. Since 1980 the Order has been primarily used to recognise merit in the arts, science, sport and literature; others have been awarded the Order of Orange-Nassau instead.\n\nThe Order ranks after the Military William Order, which is only awarded for military merit. The second and third class of the Order are not awarded to foreigners; they are eligible for the Order of Orange-Nassau or the Order of the Crown instead.\n\nThe King of the Netherlands is the Grand Master of the Order. The Order is issued in three classes. There was also a Medal for \"Brothers\" which had not been conferred since 1960. The Brothers became extinct and the grade was abolished in 1994.\n\nThe following classes and grades exist for the Order:\n\n\nThe \"badge\" of the Order is a gilt, white-enamelled Maltese Cross, with the monogram \"W\" (for King William I) between the arms of the cross. The obverse central disc is in blue enamel, bearing the motto \"Virtus Nobilitat\" (Virtue Ennobles). The reverse central disc is plain golden, with the lion from the Netherlands coat-of-arms. The badge hangs from a royal crown. As with all honours awarded by the Netherlands, the insignia comprises a decoration, a miniature and optionally a breast star. The decoration and breast stars are only worn at formal occasions or while in state office. While wearing a smoking, it is allowed to wear the miniature. Decorations are not worn on any other type of clothing.\n\nThe decoration hangs from a ribbon. This is tied as a sash, which is worn from the right shoulder to the left hip.\n\nThe star, consisting of the decoration without crown, is attached to an eight-pointed slightly rounded golden star consisting of forty-eight rays. The rays of the star are alternately scaled and all tied at the ends. The star is worn directly above the waist on the left-hand side of the clothing. The star and the medal described above are always worn together.\n\nThe miniature is a ribbon tied as a rosette, behind which a bar of gold braid is attached. This is all attached to a bow. The miniature is worn in the place of the decorations described above.\n\nThe decoration hangs from a ribbon. This ribbon is smaller in diameter than the ribbon of a Grand Cross.\n\nThe star consists of a slightly larger decoration, which is worn directly above the middle on the left-hand side of the clothing. The star and the decoration described above are always worn together.\n\nThe miniature only differs from that of the Grand Cross by the bar of silver braid instead of gold braid.\n\nThe decoration hangs from the ribbon that is worn at chest height on the left-hand side of the clothing. The ribbon for women is tied in the shape of a bow.\n\nThe miniature is tied in the shape of a bow.\n\nAssociated with the Order of the Netherlands Lion was the grade known as the Brother, originally intended as an award to those of a lower social class, who performed useful acts, self-sacrifice or other acts of kindness towards fellow human beings. The award came with an annual payment of 200 guilders, of which half would be paid to the widow(er) at the death of the award holder. The first female Brother, midwife Johanna Goozen, was admitted in 1921.\n\nDuring the reign of Queen Juliana, Brothers became an award for lifeboat crews, until the last award was made in 1960. The grade of Brother was abolished in 1994; by then there was no living Brother nor surviving widow(er).\n\nThe badge of honour for Brothers was a silver medal, with the lion from the Netherlands coat of arms on the obverse, and the motto \"Virtus Nobilitat\" (English: Virtue Ennobles) on the reverse.\n\nThe ribbon for Brothers was blue with a single orange central stripe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798109", "title": "Scunthorpe (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Scunthorpe (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nScunthorpe is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Holly Mumby-Croft, a member of the Conservative Party, when she gained the seat from the Labour Party. \n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Scunthorpe, and the Borough of Glanford wards of Bottesford Central, Bottesford East, Bottesford West, Kirton, Messingham, and South Ancholme.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of North Lincolnshire wards of Ashby, Bottesford, Brumby, Crosby and Park, Frodingham, Kingsway with Lincoln Gardens, Ridge, and Town.\n\nThe constituency includes the whole of Scunthorpe, Bottesford, Yaddlethorpe, Messingham, Manton, Kirton-in-Lindsey, Redbourne, Hibaldstow, Cadney and the hamlets and communities within these parishes.\n\nAlthough there was talk in a local newspaper in the 1930s that the town of Scunthorpe should have a parliamentary constituency named after it, it was only after the boundary reviews implemented in 1997 that a constituency of this name was created. Previous incarnations of a constituency containing the steel town and small towns and villages around it had been called (going backwards in time) Glanford and Scunthorpe, Brigg and Scunthorpe, and Brigg.\n\nResults to date indicate that the constituency has changed since creation from a safe seat for the Labour Party created at the incoming election for Prime Minister Tony Blair to somewhat of a marginal majority area for the party.\nThe constituency consists of Census Output Areas of a local government district with: a working population whose income is below the national average and slightly higher than average reliance upon social housing. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the constituency stood as 5.7% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 4.7%. The borough contributing to the seat had a middling 20.7% of its population without a car, 26.2% of the population without qualifications and 19.5% with level 4 qualifications or above. In terms of tenure 69.5% of homes are owned outright or on a mortgage as at the 2011 census across the district.\n\nNic Dakin was elected in the 2010 general election with a lower share of the vote than achieved under the Blair Ministry by his predecessor, with 39.5% of the votes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798113", "title": "Ruth Ellis (activist)", "text": "Ruth Ellis (activist)\n\nRuth Charlotte Ellis (July 23, 1899 – October 5, 2000) was an African-American woman who became widely known as the oldest surviving open lesbian, and LGBT rights activist at the age of 101, her life being celebrated in Yvonne Welbon's documentary film \"Living With Pride: Ruth C. Ellis @ 100\".\n\nEllis was born in Springfield, Illinois, on July 23, 1899. She was the youngest of four children in the family and the only daughter. Her parents were born in the last years of slavery in Tennessee. Ellis' mother, Carrie Farro Ellis, died when she was a teen, while her father, Charles Ellis Sr, was the first African American mail carrier in Illinois (originally born a slave). \n\nEllis came out as a lesbian around 1915 (with help from a psychology textbook), but claims to never have had to come out as her family was rather accepting. She graduated from Springfield High School in 1919, at a time when fewer than seven percent of African Americans graduated from secondary school. In the 1920s, she met the only woman she ever lived with, Ceciline \"Babe\" Franklin. They moved together to Detroit, Michigan, in 1937.\n\nEllis spent her days working for a printing company in Springfield but moved elsewhere for higher pay. Encouraged by this promise, of better wages, Ellis moved to Detroit in 1937. There she watched over a young boy in Highland Park for only $7.00 a week, today that is worth about $125.62. However, she soon put the knowledge she had of the printing press, which she had picked up in Springfield, to work and secure a position with Waterfield and Heath, where she worked until opening her own press out of the West Side home she shared with Babe.\n\nHer hobbies included dancing, bowling, painting, playing piano, and photography. Ellis and Franklin's house was also known in the African American community as the \"gay spot\". It was a central location for gay and lesbian parties, and also served as a refuge for African American gays and lesbians. She would continue to support those who needed books, food, or assistance with college tuition. Throughout her life, Ellis was an advocate of the rights of gays and lesbians, and of African Americans. Soon after her 70th birthday, due to her fame within the community, Ellis would become a staple at the \"Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival\". On her 100th birthday, she led and was sung happy birthday by the San Francisco’s Dyke March of 1999. Although Ellis and Franklin eventually separated, they were together for more than 30 years.\n\nFranklin died in 1973 from a heart attack on her way to work. Ellis was hospitalized for two weeks with heart problems but wanted to spend her last days at home. Ellis died in her sleep in the early morning hours of October 5, 2000. Her ashes were spread in the following Womyn's festival and into the Atlantic Ocean off of Ghana. \n\nThe Ruth Ellis Center honors the life and work of Ruth Ellis and is one of only four agencies in the United States dedicated to homeless LGBT youth and young adults. Among their services are a drop-in center, street outreach program, licensed foster care home and an integrated Health and Wellness Center that provides medical and mental health care.\n\nHer age did not slow her accomplishments, as her 100th birthday drew near, Ellis was being recognized in many major LGBT publications across the country, right as her documentary-like movie was coming out, \"Living With Pride: Ruth Ellis @ 100.\" The film won several top honors at different major film festivals. In 2009, she was inducted into the Michigan Hall of Fame. In 2013, she was inducted into the Legacy Walk, an outdoor public display which celebrates LGBT history and people.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798114", "title": "William P. G. Harding", "text": "William P. G. Harding\n\nWilliam Proctor Gould Harding (May 5, 1864 – April 7, 1930) was an American banker. He was the 2nd Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and also served as the managing director of the War Finance Corporation.\n\nHarding was born on May 5, 1864 to Horace Harding and Eliza Proctor Gould Harding in Boligee, Alabama. He received his early education in Tuscaloosa, Alabama and before entering the University of Alabama he received his preparatory support from many established and respected educators such as Dr. Warfield C. Richardson and Prof. Joseph M. Dill. He entered the University of Alabama in 1878 and received a Bachelor of Arts in 1880 and continued his studies for an extra year to obtain a Master of Arts at the time becoming the youngest student to acquire his degree. He graduated from the University of Alabama in 1881 and further continued his studies again in business college at Poughkeepsie, New York. In 1916 the University of Alabama distinguished Harding with a degree of Legum Doctor. \n\nHe returned to Tuscaloosa and began working at J. H. Fitts and Company for three years as a bookkeeper and clerk. He then moved to Birmingham, Alabama to work again as a bookkeeper for Berney National Bank where he was promoted to cashier three years later. In 1896 he was elected as vice-president of the First National Bank of Birmingham and then elected president in June 28, 1902. Under his administration he was recognized as the most notable banker in the south and was recognized nationally. In 1913 he was elected as president of the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce.\n\nHarding relinquished his title when asked by President Woodrow Wilson to become a member of the Federal Reserve Board on August 10, 1914 before the onset of World War I. In August 10, 1916 he was appointed by Woodrow to become Governor of the Federal Reserve Board and was appointed director of the War Finance Corporation until 1922. \n\nIn 1922 he was requested by the President of Cuba Alfredo Zayas y Alfonso to reorganize the country's financial and accounting systems. He returned to America in 1923 and was appointed as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston where he served until his death in April 7, 1930 from heart failure after a long illness at his home in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nHe was a member of the Freemasonry fraternal organization and an Episcopalian.\n\nHistory of Alabama and Dictionary of Alabama Biography, volume III. History of Alabama and Dictionary of Alabama Biography\n\n"}
{"id": "1798118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798118", "title": "Like Toy Soldiers", "text": "Like Toy Soldiers\n\n\"Like Toy Soldiers\" is a song by American rapper Eminem, from his fifth album \"Encore\" (2004). The song received positive reviews from music critics, and peaked at number 34 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Outside the United States, \"Like Toy Soldiers\" topped the charts in the United Kingdom and peaked within the top 10 of the charts in 12 countries, including Australia and New Zealand. The song samples \"Toy Soldiers\" by Martika and the opening music to the film \"The Hot Rock\" by Quincy Jones.\n\n\"Like Toy Soldiers\" tells the story of Eminem's attempts to calm a violent community of rappers. Eminem speaks openly about problems with \"The Source\" magazine and its editor Benzino, as well as the situation between 50 Cent and Ja Rule and his label Murder Inc., which Eminem felt went far beyond the Jay Z vs. Nas feud. The song finishes as Eminem offers a truce to his enemies. In addition, this song also reveals that Eminem had tried to stop Ja Rule & 50 Cent's feud, but lost it when he heard Ja Rule making fun of his daughter on a track called \"Loose Change\" – (\"The Ja Shit, I tried to squash it, It was too late to stop it, There's a certain line you just don't cross and he crossed it, I heard him say Hailie's name on a song and I just lost it\"). In the song \"Loose Change\", Ja Rule says Eminem claims his ex-wife is \"a known slut\" and his mother \"a crackhead\", and then asks him \"so what's Hailie gonna be when she grows up?\". \"Like Toy Soldiers\" was later included on Eminem's compilation album \"\" in 2005. Throughout his career, Eminem, at most, only alludes to Suge Knight, completing a line in this song, \"my intentions were good, I went through my whole career without ever mentioning -.\" Styles P used the instrumental version in his song \"Soldiers Song\", in 2006.\n\nAs a result of this song, Eminem refused to get himself involved in some of 50 Cent's later feuds, including Jadakiss, Fat Joe (both of whom he collaborated with in 2005), and The Game.\n\nAllMusic highlighted the song. A positive overview came from J-23: \"\"Like Toy Soldiers\" is among his best work here, from his production (complete with Martika sample), to his gripping recount, assessment and conclusion of the Benzino and Murder Inc beefs.\" Pitchfork was also positive, calling it:\na public hand-wringing over the feuds that Em and 50 Cent have been drawn into, the consequences of these battles, and-- most importantly-- the toll they've taken, both physically and emotionally. The martial beat is a bit heavy-handed, but it's counterbalanced by the pleasantly surprising chorus' sample of Martika's \"Toy Soldiers\", perhaps a nod to either Kanye's helium-vocaled samples or the 00s trend toward trance-pop covers of 80s hits.\n\n\"NME\" wrote a favorable review:\n'Like Toy Soldiers’ is a case in point. The best track of this album, and probably any album this year, it should be appalling. It interpolates (by which we mean ‘steals’) the chorus to a long-forgotten ’80s power ballad by Martika, which would be a surefire route to disaster in anyone else’s hands. Instead, with its martial drumbeat, unashamedly vast-scale soft rock dynamics and that similarly monolithic chorus, it is perhaps hip-hop’s first genuine lighters-in-the-air stadium anthem. And yet it’s probably the most personal track on the album...as Em tries to draw a line under the various beefs he and his cohorts have been embroiled in. “Even though the battle was won/I feel like we lost it/I spent [so much energy] on it/Honestly I’m exhausted”, he admits. If the sheer volume and widescreen sweep of ‘Like Toy Soldiers’ is a cover for this exhaustion, then it sure works.\n\n\"Rolling Stone Magazine\" described: \"it's really mature, as when the Martika-sampling \"Like Toy Soldiers\" renounces battle rhyming and its deadly consequences.\" \"USA Today\" noted: \"A military drumbeat drives Like Toy Soldiers, in which Eminem offers an explanation for his beef with the Murder Inc. rap clique, The Source magazine and its rapper/owner Benzino, and his part in a dispute between 50 Cent and Ja Rule. He seems to wish none of it had ever happened, and he's ready to move on.\" RapReviews was less positive: \"Continuing to wring out sympathy from his tear-soaked towel of a life, Eminem doubles-up with \"Like Toy Soldiers,\" another self-produced, self-sorry introspection on the Slim Shady saga.\" \"The Guardian\" was happy of sampling: \"Like Toy Soldiers, about Ja Rule and Benzino, is similarly brilliant. Set to the album's one genuinely fantastic backing track, involving a military drumbeat and a sample from Martika's forgotten 1980s hit Toy Soldiers, its lyrics switch from truce-calling to belligerent indignation and back again, often in the space of one line.\" \"The New York Times\" described:\n\"[Like] Toy Soldiers,\" scheduled to be the next single, recycles the 1980s pop hit by Martika so that Eminem can rehash his beefs with Ja Rule and the Source. But the vitriol is mainly gone, and he sounds sad and clear-eyed, ending the rhyme by proposing a truce: \"It's not a plea that I'm coppin'/I'm just willing to be the bigger man/If y'all can [quiet] poppin'/Off at the jaws [with the knockin'],/'Cause frankly I'm sick of talkin'/I'm not gonna let someone else's coffin/Rest on my conscience.\"\n\n\"Stylus Magazine\", however, is a bit negative: \"perhaps you don’t mind that Em ruins maybe the best musical moment on the record, the Martika interpolation of “Like Toy Soldiers”, just so he can recapitulate ad nauseum \"[sic]\" the details of his pitiful n-word controversy (and somehow indirectly blame Afrocentrism for his youthful idiocy).\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" was very critical of the song: \"Instead of addressing other matters that extend beyond his immediate universe, he wastes time attacking his sworn enemies at \"The Source\" [in both 'Like Toy Soldiers' and 'Yellow Brick Road'].\" \"The Boston Phoenix\" called it a \"self-knowing anti-anthem\". \"SPIN\", however, seemed to put the song in a different light: \"On 'Like Toy Soldiers,' over a stirring, 'Jesus Walks'-style loop of Martika's doleful '80s hit, Eminem brings light, not heat, to a couple years' worth of beefs, from 50 Cent's feud with the Murder Inc. crew to Em's conflict with rapper Benzino and \"The Source\"s edit staff, stating his case while resisting the urge to pour gas on any fires.\"\n\nReleased on December 3, 2004, the song's video starts with two young boys, one who is white and one who is black, reading a book called \"Toy Soldiers,\" which contains the lyrics of this song. It begins at the hospital where Eminem and other rappers are watching, in despair, the doctors trying to save D12 member Bugz (played by fellow D12 member Proof), who was killed in 1999. Eminem is then seen in a series of scenes rapping the song in a deserted alleyway, before the video goes through a series of scenes showing the various feuds mentioned in the song. They include seeing the news, rappers battling in studios, and street encounters. Near the end, Eminem stands shocked seeing the shooting of Bugz. It switches back to the hospital, where Bugz dies, and finishes at his funeral, which has a choir in which the black child and the white child from when Martika starts to sing.\n\nCameo appearances in the video include 50 Cent, Luis Resto, Dr. Dre, Obie Trice, and D12. Dead rappers including Tupac Shakur, The Notorious B.I.G., Big L, and Bugz are also shown in animation form at the end of the music video to show the fatal consequences of rap wars.\n\nIn a case of life imitating art, Proof himself was shot and killed on April 11, 2006, after an altercation broke out at a nightclub in Detroit, Michigan. \"In the year after [Proof] died,\" Eminem said in an interview. \"I would stare at the ceiling and think about that video (Like Toy Soldiers). Did karma cause that to happen in real life? Did I? You always want to point the finger at somebody else when something like that happens, you know?\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798120", "title": "William Harding", "text": "William Harding\n\nWilliam Harding may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798133", "title": "Selby (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Selby (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSelby was a parliamentary constituency in North Yorkshire, represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency existed from 1983 to 2010.\n\nThis was a safe Conservative seat from 1983 to 1997 then became a Labour marginal for the remainder of its existence.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Selby, and the District of Ryedale ward of Osbaldwick and Heworth.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Selby.\n\nThe constituency covered the district of Selby and the south-eastern suburbs of the city of York (namely the parishes of Fulford, Heslington and Osbaldwick and Heworth Without). It included the University of York and the Drax and Eggborough power stations.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in York and North Yorkshire in the 2000s, the Boundary Commission for England created a new seat of Selby and Ainsty. The new seat consists of much of the former Selby constituency, minus the south-western suburbs of York which are included in the (also newly created) seat of York Outer, plus rural areas south and east of Harrogate formerly included in Vale of York constituency..\n\n"}
{"id": "1798134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798134", "title": "Eschatology: Death and Eternal Life", "text": "Eschatology: Death and Eternal Life\n\nEschatology: Death and Eternal Life () is a 1988 book written by Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI). The book is the study of the \"eschaton\", the times of the end, or \"last things\", such as the parousia, heaven, and hell. Among the issues addressed in it is the concept of purgatory, which he argues may be existential—not temporal—in duration.\n"}
{"id": "1798135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798135", "title": "Brad Meltzer", "text": "Brad Meltzer\n\nBrad Meltzer (born April 1, 1970) is an American political thriller novelist, non-fiction writer, TV show creator, and comic book author.\n\nBrad Meltzer was born on April 1, 1970. He grew up in Brooklyn, New York, and then moved to South Florida, where he graduated from North Miami Beach Senior High School in 1988. He earned a degree from the University of Michigan, the first in his immediate family to attend a four-year college. In 1993, Meltzer lived in Beacon Hill, Boston, Massachusetts with roommate, fellow comic book writer/artist Judd Winick, working in sales at \"Games\" magazine by day while working on his first novel by night. Afterwards Meltzer graduated from Columbia Law School, and was selected to the Columbia Law Review.\n\nMeltzer's books have appeared on the bestseller list for Fiction, Non-Fiction (\"History Decoded\"), Advice (\"Heroes for My Son\" and \"Heroes for My Daughter\"), Children’s Books (\"I Am Amelia Earhart\" and \"I Am Abraham Lincoln\") and comic books (\"Justice League of America\"), for which he won the Eisner Award.\n\nMeltzer is also responsible for helping find the missing 9/11 flag that the firefighters raised at Ground Zero at the World Trade Center site, making national news on the 15th anniversary of 9/11. Using his TV show, \"Brad Meltzer's Lost History\", he told the story of the missing flag and asked Americans for their help in returning it. Four days later, a former Marine walked into a fire station in Everett, Washington, said that he saw Meltzer's TV show, and that he now wanted to return the flag. Meltzer unveiled the flag at the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, where it is now on display.\n\nKnown for his thorough research, Meltzer counts former Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush as fans, and both have helped him with his research.\n\nIn September 2006, Meltzer participated in a work group with the CIA, the FBI, various psychologists, and Department of Homeland Security intelligence staff to brainstorm new ways that terrorists might attack the U.S.\n\nAs an inspirational speaker, Meltzer's TEDx Talk, \"How to Write Your Own Obituary\", has been viewed over 50,000 times, and prompted TED to ask him to do another TED Talk: \"Write Your Story, Change History\", which has been viewed over 80,000 times.\n\nMeltzer helped preserve the house where Superman was created in Cleveland, Ohio, helping to create the Siegel & Shuster Society, then telling the story of the house and running an auction that raised over $100,000.\n\nMeltzer has worked with numerous organizations throughout Florida to promote literacy within the State. Meltzer has worked in the past with Florida Family Literacy Initiative, and is due to participate in the Literacy Coalition of Palm Beach County's 23rd Annual Love of Literacy Luncheon in March 2014.\n\nMeltzer was one of four authors selected to entertain at Barbara Bush's 90th birthday party in 2015.\n\nMeltzer aided in helping save the life of his 11th grade history teacher. When his teacher told Meltzer she was sick and needed a new kidney, Meltzer asked his 100,000 Facebook fans to find her a new kidney and in the process, helped save her life.\n\nDuring \"Star Wars\" Night at the 2015 Marlins/Mets baseball game, Meltzer threw out the first pitch of the game, then proceeded to fight mascot Billy the Marlin in a lightsaber battle.\n\nHis first novel, \"Fraternity\", garnered 24 rejection letters, but he then sold his second novel, \"The Tenth Justice\", while in law school. In 1994, he co-wrote the original swearing-in oath that is taken by AmeriCorps members, and has been delivered by Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. In 1996, Meltzer created one of the earliest author websites for his first published novel, \"The Tenth Justice\". Over the years, every one of Meltzer's thrillers has made \"The New York Times\" bestseller list and \"The Hollywood Reporter\" has listed him as one of \"Hollywood's Most Powerful Authors\".\n\nWhile Meltzer was conducting research for his novel \"The Inner Circle,\" former U.S. President George H. W. Bush gave him a copy of the secret letter that he had left in the Oval Office desk for Bill Clinton.\n\nHis popular “Culper Ring” novels, of which \"The President’s Shadow\" is the third, imagine that a secret spy ring, founded in real life by George Washington, continues to exist today. His 2013 novel, \"The Fifth Assassin\", follows a killer bent on re-creating the crimes of presidential assassinations from John Wilkes Booth to Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nMeltzer's 2018 novel \"The Escape Artist\" debuted at No. 1 on \"The New York Times\" Hardcover Fiction Bestseller list.\n\nIn May 2010, Meltzer released his first nonfiction book, \"Heroes For My Son\", a book he had worked on for almost a decade, beginning on the night his first son was born.\n\nThe book is part of a two-book deal with Meltzer's publisher, and stated in a May 2010 interview that he was working on \"Heroes for My Daughter\". The book is a collection of stories from the lives of 52 people such as Jim Henson, Rosa Parks and Mr. Rogers, and was written with the intention of being presented one day to his then-eight-year-old son. It debuted at #2 on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. \"Heroes for My Daughter\" also made \"The New York Times\" bestseller list.\n\nIn January 2014, Meltzer and artist Chris Eliopoulos launched a line of biographies for kids, starting with \"I Am Amelia Earhart\" and \"I Am Abraham Lincoln\", which debuted on \"The New York Times\" bestseller list. The books are part of a series, \"Ordinary People Change the World\", whose books tell the stories of America's icons in an entertaining way to engage young readers. He followed the initial books with \"I Am Albert Einstein\", \"I Am Rosa Parks\", \"I Am Lucille Ball\", \"I Am Jackie Robinson\", \"I Am Helen Keller\", \"I Am Martin Luther King, Jr.\", \"I Am Jane Goodall\", \"I Am George Washington\" and \"I Am Jim Henson\". Then in October 2017, \"I Am Gandhi\" and \"I Am Sacagawea\" were released. In October 2018 PBS announced a cartoon adaptation of this series called Xavier Riddle and the Secret Museum, which debuted in autumn 2019.\n\nIn January 2019, Meltzer released \"The First Conspiracy: The Secret Plot to Kill George Washington\", cowritten with Josh Mensch.\n\nIn May 2020, Meltzer and his co-author Josh Mensch released \"The Lincoln Conspiracy: The Secret Plot to Kill America's 16th President--and Why It Failed\" covering the foiled plot to kill Lincoln in 1861.\n\nMeltzer followed director Kevin Smith's run on DC Comics' \"Green Arrow\" and created a six-issue story arc for DC Comics' \"Green Arrow\" #16-21 (October 2002 - April 2003).\n\nIn 2004 he wrote the miniseries \"Identity Crisis\", which became one of the most controversial storylines of the decade, one of the top selling books of that decade, and also one of the most popular. It regularly makes the list of DC Comics' \"best comics\", \"best moments\", and even \"best fights\", praised by \"The New York Times\" and director Joss Whedon. While the miniseries holds an average score of 7.3 out of 10 at the review aggregator website Comic Book Roundup, (the lowest issue score going to issue #7, with 5.3, and the highest going to issue #1, with 8.7), it was criticized for its use of sexual violence as a plot device, for retconning events in DC continuity that critics and readers felt harmed the characterization of long-standing DC heroes, and for influencing similar subsequent comics.\n\nMeltzer was one of many writers and artists who contributed to \"Superman/Batman\" #26 (June 2006), a tribute book dedicated to Sam Loeb, the son of writer Jeph Loeb, who died of cancer in 2005 at the age of 17. Meltzer scripted pages 11–12 and 19 of the comic book.\n\nMeltzer took over the writing duties for a 13-issue stint on the new monthly \"Justice League of America\" series, which started with issue #0 on July 19, 2006, and issue #1 following a month later. Meltzer and artist Gene Ha received the 2008 Eisner Award for Best Single Issue (or One-Shot) for their work on issue #11 of the series. The award was presented by Samuel L. Jackson and Gabriel Macht.\n\nIn 2008, it was announced that Meltzer would write an arc of Joss Whedon's \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season Eight\" comic book for Dark Horse Comics. Whedon would later appear as himself, alongside Brian K. Vaughan and Damon Lindelof in the trailer for Meltzer's 2008 release of \"The Book of Lies\". Whedon, Vaughan and Lindelof portray themselves as conspiracy theorists who believe in a so-called \"Book of Lies\" which, in Meltzer's novel, connects the original murder story (Cain and Abel) to the murder of Jerry Siegel's father, shortly before the conception of the iconic Superman character. In 2010, Meltzer wrote #32 - 35 of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season Eight\".\n\nIn January 2014 Meltzer and artist Bryan Hitch collaborated on a retelling of Batman's first appearance for \"Detective Comics\" (vol. 2) #27. Meltzer and artist John Cassaday crafted the \"Faster Than a Speeding Bullet\" chapter in \"Action Comics\"#1000 (June 2018).\n\nMeltzer was the co-creator of the television series \"Jack & Bobby\", which ran for one season (2004–2005) on the WB television network.\n\nMeltzer hosted the History series \"Brad Meltzer's Decoded\", which aired from December 2, 2010 to January 20, 2012.\n\nOn October 31, 2014, \"Brad Meltzer's Lost History\" premiered on History's H2 network, with Meltzer hosting. Each episode of \"Lost History\" presents both solved and unsolved cases and success stories where Americans have helped find missing historic objects such as the Ground Zero flag from 9/11 and the original Wright Brothers flying machine patent. Viewers are encouraged to submit tips to an online site, in an effort to provide key information leading to the return of these treasures. In September 2016, Meltzer hosted \"America's 9/11 Flag: Rose from the Ashes\", which recounts how \"Lost History\" located and authenticated the missing 9/11 flag.\n\nMeltzer lives in Florida with his wife, an attorney. He has two sons and a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798140", "title": "Philosophical sin", "text": "Philosophical sin\n\nThe existence of philosophical sin was a debate waged in the Catholic Church in the late seventeenth century. A philosophical sin is a morally bad act which violates the natural order of reason, not the divine law. The idea of philosophical sin, as opposed to theological sin, was advocated by those who wished to construct a moral system independent of God.\n\nThose who believed in God and divine law yet contended for a distinction between philosophical and theological sin maintained that there are morally bad acts that, while violating the order of reason, are not offensive to God. They believed that the sinner can be ignorant of the existence of God and that, without the knowledge or consideration of God, it is impossible to offend him.\n\nThis doctrine of philosophical sin was censured as scandalous, temerarious, and erroneous by Pope Alexander VIII in 1690 in his condemnation of the following proposition: \n\nThe Catholic Church maintains the contrary view that sin can be offensive to God even if the sinner either does not know or does not consider God.\n"}
{"id": "1798141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798141", "title": "The Century: America's Time", "text": "The Century: America's Time\n\nThe Century: America's Time is a 15-part television series of documentaries produced by ABC News about the 20th century and the rise of the United States as a superpower. The documentary originally aired on The History Channel in 1999.\nAnother earlier series, simply called \"The Century\" also produced by ABC News, appeared on the ABC network in 1999, and also later appeared on The History Channel. It consists of six two-hour shows with each chronicling two different events based around a common theme. The narrator of both series was Peter Jennings, anchor of \"ABC World News Tonight\".\n\nAlong with distinguished journalist Todd Brewster, Jennings co-authored a book titled \"The Century\" which became a national bestseller. This series is part of the History Channel's \"Cable in The Classroom\" curriculum and the study guides for each episode can be found on their website, under the letter \"C\".\n\nABC ran a mini-marathon of the series on September 15, 2001 in reaction to the September 11 attacks. The marathon signaled the transition from 24/7 news coverage, which had gone uninterrupted since the first reports of an incident at the World Trade Center, back to \"normal\" programming.\n\nEpisode Guide for \"The Century\" (earlier series)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798143", "title": "Georgia Highlands College", "text": "Georgia Highlands College\n\nGeorgia Highlands College (Georgia Highlands or GHC) is a public college in northwest Georgia. It has locations in Rome, Cartersville, Marietta, Dallas, and Douglasville, and serves the northwest parts of Georgia, as well as parts of east Alabama and southeast Tennessee. A member of the University System of Georgia, the college was originally a community college but has since expanded to also offer bachelor degrees in nursing and dental hygiene. Roughly 5,700 students were enrolled during the Spring 2018 semester representing 49 different countries.\n\nEstablished in 1968 and opened in 1970 as Floyd Junior College, the school was originally named for Floyd County, of which Rome is the county seat, which was in turn named after John Floyd. It was later shortened to just Floyd College in 1987. In April 2005, the Georgia Board of Regents voted to change the school's name, and on August 1, 2005, the institution officially became Georgia Highlands College to reflect the regional nature of the population it serves. The college has expanded its service area by opening new instructional sites in 1994, 2005, 2009, and 2010.\n\nGeorgia Highlands College currently offers Associate degrees, Bachelor of Science degrees, and Bachelor of Business Administration degrees. The college provides eight Associate pathways and two Bachelor programs entirely online.\n\nGeorgia Highlands College is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges. GHC's Associate of Science in Nursing degree and its Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree are accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN). The Dental Hygiene program is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation and the Associate of Science in Nursing is approved by the Georgia Board of Nursing.\n\nGHC's full-time faculty is 57% female and 87% white. 73.2% of the GHC faculty are full-time and ranked Assistant, Associate, or full Professor, while 26.8% have the rank of Instructor. As of Fall 2016, 51% of the full-time faculty had tenure, 22% were on track for tenure, and 26.8% were not on the tenure track. All full-time faculty had a master's degree as required by SACS, and 30% additionally had a terminal degree such as a doctorate The full-time faculty to student ratio at GHC is 21:1.\n\nStudents can earn an associate degree at Georgia Highlands College for less than $8,000 and a bachelor's degree for $16,000. An initiative begun in 2015 to expand Open Educational Resources (OER) and provide free or low cost textbooks has led to saving GHC students more than $6 million on course resources.\n\nGeorgia Highlands College offers courses and services at the original campus and at five additional instructional sites.\n\nGHC was founded as Floyd Junior College in 1970 in Rome, Georgia. The campus includes Bishop Observatory, a library, the Lakeview Auditorium building, the McCorkle and Walraven academic buildings, a tennis court, and fields for soccer, softball, and baseball. This site includes Paris Lake and has access to a 20-acre tract behind the campus that has been set aside as a protected natural wetland ecosystem, which includes a 1,200-foot boardwalk and two observation platforms. \nIn 2015, the Floyd campus began housing a new Georgia Public Safety Training Center (GPSTC), offering training for law enforcement officers.\n\nGHC began offering classes in a small space in downtown Cartersville, Georgia in the 1980s. The current Cartersville location was opened in 2005. The site includes a 55,000-square-foot student center designed with a mountain lodge feel that matches the original classroom building and has a two-story stone fireplace in the open-air student lounge as its centerpiece. Along with the campus bookstore, the center houses a small café, a game room, a weight and cardio room, two volleyball/basketball courts, and a suspended indoor running track.\n\nIn 2017, the University System of Georgia approved $17.7 million in funds to construct a new STEAM building at the Cartersville site. The building, which features new classrooms and lab rooms, is expected to open to students in Spring 2019.\n\nThe James D. Maddox Heritage Hall Instructional Site, in downtown Rome, Georgia, has been in operation by GHC since 1994 and houses the college's Division of Health Sciences nursing and dental hygiene programs. Heritage Hall also houses digital media services and GHTV, GHC's local cable television station. The Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) program is also housed at the site.\n\nThe Marietta site opened in 2005. This location became GHC's third site, opening for classes on the campus of Southern Polytechnic State University (SPSU), now Kennesaw State University (KSU). GHC students at the Marietta site have access to KSU dorms, student clubs, intramurals, and collegiate sporting events.\nGHC administrative and faculty offices are housed in Norton Hall on the KSU Marietta campus. GHC courses are regularly offered in the Atrium building, Engineering Lab Building, and Mathematics building. GHC students at the Marietta site have access privileges at the KSU Lawrence Johnson library.\n\nThe Douglasville location began using space donated by Chapel Hill High school while the renovation of the Stewart Parkway building was underway. The building, in partnership with The University of West Georgia, opened to students in 2010. It includes classrooms, an auditorium, science labs, a student lounge, and offices. A branch library was added to the site in 2015. In 2018, UWG and GHC announced a new partnership program in Mass Communications with a focus on Public Relations, with future program partnerships in development.\n\nThe Paulding location in Dallas was opened in 2009. Administrative offices, classrooms, and the library are located in the Bagby building and the Winn building in the Dallas Town Square. Kennesaw State University and GHC have several active partnership programs available at the Paulding site, including degrees in Psychology, Elementary & Early Childhood Education, and Integrative Studies.\n\nIn 2018, the University System of Georgia approved $4.1 million in funds to renovate the buildings at the Paulding site. The renovations will provide space for further course offerings, allowing more complete degrees at the Paulding site.\n\nThe student body at Georgia Highlands College is relatively diverse. Over 60% of students are female, and 24% are non-traditional age students (24–65 years old). The median student age is 23. 69% of students are white/Caucasian, 17% are black/African American, and 8% are Hispanic/Latino. \nGHC has an active veteran cohort of students, and was ranked a “Top School for Veterans” by Military Advanced Education in 2012, and from 2014-2018.\n\nThe largest club at the college, Brother 2 Brother (B2B), encourages excellence among minority male students. B2B began as part of the Georgia Highlands African-American & Minority Male Excellence program (GHAME) in 2008. GHC B2B won outstanding chapter of the year several times at the 300+ member national Student African American Brotherhood Conference. GHC's chapter of the national academic organization Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) was recognized as Regional Top Distinguished Chapter Overall in 2016, 2017, and 2018. \nThe Six Mile Post, GHC's student newspaper, consistently wins awards for student articles, artwork, editing, photography, and advertising at the Southern Regional Press Institute and the Georgia College Press Association. For four decades, the college has published Old Red Kimono, an annual book of student artwork, poetry, and short stories. Since 2010, students at GHC can compete in a public speaking competition funded in part by the Rome Area Council for the Arts.\n\nStudent clubs and GHC Student Support Services began offering food panty services in partnership with the Atlanta Food Bank in 2017 to students that are food insecure. Since 2005, the college has hosted Foundation Summer Camp, a free service for boys that includes STEAM and athletic activities.\n\nSince 1997, GHC has offered geology field credit for summer trips to Wyoming. GHC partners with KSU to offer semester abroad trips with credit courses in Montepulciano, Italy. GHC regularly offers biology credit trips to Costa Rica and culture/business credit trips to European countries.\n\nGeorgia Highlands College, nicknamed the Chargers, is a Division I member of the Georgia Collegiate Athletic Association (GCAA) and Region XVII of the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA). Men's sports include basketball and baseball. Women's sports include basketball and softball. The athletics program began play in the 2012-13 season with men's and women's basketball, and added baseball and softball the following year (2014). The men's basketball team has won Regional Championships in 2015, 2016, and 2017. The women's basketball team won a regional title in 2016 and the women's baseball team won a regional title in 2017.\n\nThe Charger mascot is named “Bolt”.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798146", "title": "Aberdeen North", "text": "Aberdeen North\n\nAberdeen North may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1798155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798155", "title": "Airdrie and Shotts (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Airdrie and Shotts (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAirdrie and Shotts is a constituency of the UK House of Commons, located in central Scotland within the North Lanarkshire council area. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) at least once every five years using the first-past-the-post system of voting.\n\nThe constituency has existed since 1997; however, it underwent significant boundary changes in 2005. Before 2015, it could have been described as a safe seat for the Labour Party, who held it with a majority of over 12,000 votes until Neil Gray of the Scottish National Party was elected at that year's general election. Former MPs for the constituency include: Pamela Nash, former Baby of the House, John Reid, former Labour Home Secretary and Defence Secretary, and Helen Liddell, former Labour Scottish Secretary.\n\nIt is a generally working-class, urban seat, and contains the towns of Airdrie, Calderbank, Chapelhall, Glenmavis and Shotts.\n\n1997–2005: The Monklands District electoral divisions of Airdrie North and Airdrie South, and the Motherwell District electoral division of Fortissat.\n\n2005–present: The North Lanarkshire Council wards of Academy, Airdrie Central, Airdrie North, Airdrie South, Benhar, Calderbank, Chapelhall, Clarkston, Craigneuk and Petersburn, Dykehead, Holytown, New Monkland West, Newarthill, Newmains, North Cairnhill and Coatdyke, Plains and Caldercruix, Salsburgh, South East Cairnhill and Gartlea, Stane, and Whinhall.\n\nThe majority of the newly created constituency maintains the boundaries of its predecessor. From North Lanarkshire come Holytown and Newarthill. This seat is positioned on either side of the M8 motorway to Glasgow.\n\nSmall semi-urban towns such as Stane, Dykehead and Shotts were added to Airdrie in the 1997 redistribution to form this seat, the predecessor of which was Monklands East. An area in the eastern part of Coatbridge is also part of the constituency.\n\nThe 2005 changes saw the seat lose some territory to Motherwell and Wishaw whilst gaining part of Hamilton North and Bellshill. It proved to be a Labour Party stronghold from its creation until the Scottish National Party gained it at the 2015 general election, with Neil Gray winning the seat from Pamela Nash by 8,779 votes. Gray's majority dipped to just 195 in the 2017 election. However, in the 2019 election he won by 5,201 votes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798160", "title": "Aldershot (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Aldershot (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAldershot is a constituency in Hampshire, created in 1918.\n\nAldershot has elected a Conservative as its MP since its creation in 1918.\n\nFrom 1974, to 2010 (inclusive) Liberal Democrats (or predecessor, Liberals) polled second. In 2015 and 2017 the Labour candidate was runner-up.\n\nThe 2015 result saw the seat rank 123rd safest of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority. In June 2016, 57.9% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\nIn the 2017 general election, Leo Docherty won the seat after Howarth stood down (retired). The seat saw a further increase in the Labour vote, like much of the South East amid its national rise to 40% of the vote, the highest since 2001 when the party was in government.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban Districts of Aldershot, Farnborough, and Fleet, and the Rural District of Hartley Wintney.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Aldershot, the Urban Districts of Farnborough and Fleet, and the Rural District of Hartley Wintney. The constituency boundaries remained unchanged.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of Aldershot, the Urban Districts of Farnborough and Fleet, and in the Rural District of Hartley Wintney the civil parishes of Crondall, Crookham Village, Hawley, and Yateley.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Rushmoor, and the District of Hart wards of Eversley, Frogmore and Darby Green, Hartley Wintney, Hawley, Whitewater, Yateley East, Yateley North, and Yateley West.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Rushmoor, and the District of Hart wards of Frogmore and Darby Green, Hawley, Yateley East, Yateley North, and Yateley West.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Rushmoor, and the District of Hart wards of Blackwater and Hawley, and Frogmore and Darby Green.\n\nThe constituency includes the towns Aldershot and Farnborough in the north-east of Hampshire which have research, development and production sites of information technology and light industrial major commercial businesses such as in aviation at Farnborough Airport, storage and distribution, and military supply businesses. Aldershot is a major training and residential base of the British Army. Adding to steady employment and high income sectors, two 35 minutes to one-hour journey time passenger lines to Central London, serve the south and north of the mixed functionalist urban and leafy, relatively grand suburbia seat.\n\nAldershot itself has some Labour councillors, along with one strong ward in Farnborough (Cherrywood), but the majority of wards, particularly in the smaller rural towns and villages are safely Conservative, the latter holding the seat with solid or large majorities from its creation 100 years ago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798165", "title": "Jegunovce", "text": "Jegunovce\n\nJegunovce () is one of the larger villages in the Polog Valley, North Macedonia. It is located about 10 mi (15 km) northeast of the Macedonian city of Tetovo. It is the center of the Jegunovce municipality.\n\nJegunovce began to grow from a village into a small town after World War II, when the new Yugoslav government under Josip Broz Tito built a massive metallurgical plant (working mostly with chromium) in the area. The plant was named \"Jugohrom\", and was one of the largest employers in Yugoslavia. The plant was renamed \"Silmak\" in 2002, and closed in 2006. After reopening and closing later on again in early 2009 due to the world financial crisis and rapid decline in demand, Silmak started its operations again in July, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798166", "title": "Ashford (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ashford (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nAshford is a constituency created in 1885 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Damian Green, a Conservative, who served as First Secretary of State between 11 June and 20 December 2017.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Tenterden, the Sessional Divisions of Ashford and Cranbrook, the corporate towns of Lydd and New Romney, and part of the Liberty of Romney Marsh.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Boroughs of Lydd, New Romney, and Tenterden, the Urban District of Ashford, and the Rural Districts of Cranbrook, East Ashford, Romney Marsh, Tenterden, and West Ashford.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Tenterden, the Urban District of Ashford, and the Rural Districts of Cranbrook, East Ashford, Tenterden, and West Ashford.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of Tenterden, the Urban District of Ashford, and the Rural Districts of East Ashford, Tenterden, and West Ashford. \"Cranbrook Rural District was transferred to the new Royal Tunbridge Wells constituency.\"\n\n1983–2010: The Borough of Ashford. \"The constituency boundaries remained unchanged from 1974.\"\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Ashford wards of Aylesford Green, Beaver, Biddenden, Bockhanger, Boughton Aluph and Eastwell, Bybrook, Charing, Downs North, Downs West, Godinton, Great Chart with Singleton North, Highfield, Isle of Oxney, Kennington, Little Burton Farm, Norman, North Willesborough, Park Farm North, Park Farm South, Rolvenden and Tenterden West, St Michael's, Singleton South, South Willesborough, Stanhope, Stour, Tenterden North, Tenterden South, Victoria, Washford, Weald Central, Weald East, Weald North, Weald South, and Wye.\n\nAshford constituency has the large town of Ashford which has Ashford International railway station and the smaller town of Tenterden, one of the area's 46 villages, towns or town suburbs which are organised communities into civil parishes. Ashford town centre, its north and its west are the only unparished areas.\n\nCreated under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, Ashford has been won by a Conservative at every election except that of 1929 when it was won by a Liberal, after that party's turn towards the left marked by the People's Budget in 1911, who won with a majority of less than 1% of the vote.\n\nThe most marginal victory since 1929 occurred in 1997 when its voters returned a Conservative who won by a 9.7% majority. The 2015 result made the seat the 106th safest of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 60% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\nThe constituency has its express-enabled station to London, Paris and Brussels leading to a considerable use including by local international employers supporting local shops, leisure facilities and attractions. Its use increased in the seven years to 2012, to 3.3 million entries and exits that year, a rise of more than 1 million. At the end of 2012 the unemployment rate in the area stood at 2.0% of the population claiming jobseekers allowance, compared to the regional average of 2.4% and national average of 3.8%.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798168", "title": "Gustave Gilbert", "text": "Gustave Gilbert\n\nGustave Mark Gilbert (September 30, 1911 – February 6, 1977) was an American psychologist best known for his writings containing observations of high-ranking Nazi leaders during the Nuremberg trials. His 1950 book \"The Psychology of Dictatorship\" was an attempt to profile the Nazi German dictator Adolf Hitler using as reference the testimonials of Hitler's closest generals and commanders. Gilbert's published work is still a subject of study in many universities and colleges, especially in the field of psychology.\n\nGilbert was born in the state of New York in 1911, the son of Jewish-Austrian immigrants. He won a scholarship from the School for Ethical Culture at the College Town Center in New York. In 1939, Gilbert obtained his Doctor of Philosophy degree in psychology from Columbia University. Gilbert also held a diploma from the American Board of Examiners in professional psychology.\n\nDuring World War II, Gilbert was commissioned with the rank of First Lieutenant. Because of his knowledge of German, he was sent overseas as a translator.\n\nIn 1945, after the end of the war, Gilbert was sent to Nuremberg, Germany, as a translator for the International Military Tribunal for the trials of the World War II German prisoners. Gilbert was appointed the prison psychologist of the German prisoners. During the process of the trials Gilbert became, after Douglas Kelley, the confidant of Hermann Göring, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Wilhelm Keitel, Hans Frank, Oswald Pohl, Otto Ohlendorf, Rudolf Höss, and Ernst Kaltenbrunner, among others. Gilbert and Kelley administered the Rorschach inkblot test to the 22 defendants in the Nazi leadership group prior to the first set of trials. Gilbert also participated in the Nuremberg trials as the American Military Chief Psychologist and provided testimony attesting to the sanity of Rudolf Hess.\n\nIn 1946, after the trials, Gilbert returned to the US. Gilbert stayed busy teaching, researching, and writing. In 1947 he published part of his diary, consisting of observations taken during interviews, interrogations, \"eavesdropping\" and conversations with German prisoners, under the title \"Nuremberg Diary\". (This diary was reprinted in full in 1961 just before the trial of Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem.) The following is a famous exchange Gilbert had with Göring from this book:\n\nIn 1948, as Head Psychologist at the Veterans Hospital at Lyons, NJ, Gilbert treated veterans of World Wars I and II who had suffered nervous breakdowns.\n\nIn 1950, Gilbert published \"The Psychology of Dictatorship: Based on an Examination of the Leaders of Nazi Germany\". In this book, Gilbert made an attempt to portray a profile of the psychological behavior of Adolf Hitler, based on deductive work from eyewitness reports from Hitler's commanders in prison in Nuremberg.\n\nIn September 1954, while he was an Associate Professor of Psychology at Michigan State College, Gilbert attended the 62nd Annual Convention of the American Psychological Association in New York. Gilbert was part of a four-person panel discussing \"Psychological Approaches to the Problem of Anti-Intellectualism.\"\n\nIn 1961, when he was the chairman of the psychology department of Long Island University in Brooklyn, Gilbert was summoned to testify in the trial of Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem. Gilbert testified on May 29, 1961, describing how both Ernst Kaltenbrunner and Rudolf Höss tried in their conversations with him to put the responsibility for the extermination of the Jews on each other's doorstep. Nevertheless, Eichmann appeared in the accounts of both men. Then he presented a document, handwritten by Höss, that surveys the process of extermination at Auschwitz and different sums of people gassed there – under Höss as commandant and according to an oral report by Eichmann. The court decided not to accept Gilbert's psychological analyses of the prisoners at Nuremberg as part of his testimony.\n\nIn 1967, Gilbert convinced Leon Pomeroy, then a recent graduate from University of Texas at Austin, to build a clinical doctoral program in the field of psychology at Long Island University. At the time, Gilbert was serving as chairman of the psychology department of Long Island University in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nGilbert died on 6 February 1977.\n\nGustave Gilbert has been portrayed by the following actors in film, television and theater productions;\nAlso, the character \"Abe Fields\" in Michael Koehlmeier's 2008 book \"Abendland\" (\"Occident\") who is based on Gustave Gilbert (see the interview with the author in the Austrian paper \"Der Falter\" of 15. 8. 2007). In the book, Abe Fields sits in on the trials as psychologist and speaks to the defendants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798170", "title": "David Wallace (Indiana politician)", "text": "David Wallace (Indiana politician)\n\nDavid Wallace (April 24, 1799 – September 4, 1859) was the sixth governor of the US state of Indiana. The Panic of 1837 occurred just before his election and the previous administration, which he had been part of, had taken on a large public debt. During his term the state entered a severe financial crisis that crippled the state's internal improvement projects. He advocated several measures to delay the inevitable insolvency of the state. Because of his connection to the internal improvement platform, his party refused to nominate him to run for a second term. The situation continued to deteriorate rapidly and led to state bankruptcy in his successor's term. After his term as governor, he became a congressman, then chairman of the Indiana Whig party before becoming a state judge, a position he held until his death.\n\nDavid Wallace was born in Lewistown, Pennsylvania on April 24, 1799, the oldest of the seven children of Andrew and Eleanor Wallace. His father was a surveyor and tavern owner who became close friends with William Henry Harrison while the two served together in the War of 1812. The family benefited from Harrison's patronage. Wallace's brother, William H. Wallace, was appointed as the fourth governor of the Washington Territory and first governor of the Idaho Territory.\n\nHis family moved to Ohio and settled near Cincinnati when he was a young boy. Wallace later attended Miami College before his family again moved to Brookville, Indiana in 1817. With the help of Harrison, Wallace secured entrance into the United States Military Academy. He graduated from West Point in 1821 and served as a lieutenant of artillery and taught mathematics at the school, but resigned his commission after about a year in the service. He later served as a captain and colonel in the 7th Regiment, Indiana Militia.\n\nWhen Wallace left the army he returned to his family in Brookville. There he began to study law in the office of Judge Miles C. Eggleston, and was admitted to the bar in 1823. He entered into a practice with Congressman John Test and married to his daughter, Esther French Test on November 10, 1824. They had four children together, one of whom was Lew Wallace, author of the novel \"\" and Governor of New Mexico Territory. He is also the father of Edward Wallace, who fought in the Mexican-American war and the American Civil War. In 1836, after the death of his first wife, David married Zerelda Gray Sanders, a leader in the temperance movement, and together they had six children.\n\nIn 1828, Wallace was elected to the Indiana House of Representatives, where he served until 1831, when he was elected the sixth Lieutenant Governor on the Whig ticket with Noah Noble. As Lieutenant Governor he led the debate in the state senate to create the Bank of Indiana and gained a reputation as a skilled orator. Wallace was an outspoken advocate of the state's internal improvement projects, and painted a rosy picture of the state's situation during his campaign for governor. His family moved to Covington during his term.\n\nDuring his second term as Lieutenant Governor, the state passed the Mammoth Internal Improvement Act. Although it was at first extremely popular, it had soon become apparent to state leaders that it was leading the state to financial ruin. The problem was not fully evident when Wallace ran for governor in 1837, but was a small part of his election campaign. He was elected largely because of his prior support to the improvement act, which the public still supported, and his support from the popular governor Noah Noble.\n\nWallace's term as governor was marred by the Panic of 1837 and years of economic uncertainty which followed. Indiana had been enjoying a period of internal improvements of roads and canals, but nearly all such projects ended during this financial crisis. He was able to help arrange the state's finances to delay the inevitable bankruptcy of the state. The deficit only worsened, and by the end of his term, the state's income only covered 20% of its expenditures—interest on the massive state debt being over two-thirds of the budget. The last year of his term, work on all the projects was halted. Wallace delivered an address to the General Assembly to inform them that the works were almost entirely worthless in their present condition and the state's credit had been exhausted. He informed the legislature that the state would be insolvent in the following year.\n\nThe last of the Indian removals in Indiana occurred during Wallace's term, and only the few unwilling to leave voluntarily remained in the state. The Treaty of Chicago—signed in 1833 with the Potawatomi—led to their removal. Wallace ordered General and U.S. Senator John Tipton to remove the band of 859 Potawatomi from the vicinity of Plymouth, Indiana and send them to the Kansas Territory. Forty-two Potawatomi, mostly children, died from disease and the stress of the two-month march in what became known as the \"Trail of Death\".\n\nDuring his term, Wallace set the date Indiana would observe Thanksgiving. On November 4, 1839, he issued an executive order making November 28 Thanksgiving Day. Wallace claimed to have done so at the request of representatives from different state churches.\n\nBy the end of his term, the impending financial disaster was becoming apparent to the state's residents. Seeking to break away from failing projects, the Whigs moved against projects and nominated Samuel Bigger to run for governor, denying Wallace and his pro-internal improvement position a spot on the Whig ticket. Wallace then returned to his law practice.\n\nAfter his term as governor, Wallace was elected in 1841 to the U.S. House of Representatives from the Indianapolis district, defeating Nathan B. Palmer. While in Congress he supported federal spending on the development of the telegraph, for which he was ridiculed by his opponents, but was later vindicated by the success of the technology. Wallace failed in his attempt for reelection in 1843, being defeated by William J. Brown who won by 1,085 votes.\n\nWallace returned to Indiana where he became chairman of the state's Whig party in 1846. He served as a member of Indiana's constitutional convention in 1850–1851. His name is only mentioned nine times in the convention records and unlike the other former governors who attended, he did not play a major role in the convention. Wallace then became a judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Marion County from 1856 until his death.\n\nWallace died suddenly, without having been ill, on September 4, 1859 in Indianapolis, Indiana and is buried in Crown Hill Cemetery.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1798186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798186", "title": "Rhythms NetConnections", "text": "Rhythms NetConnections\n\nRhythms NetConnections Inc. (Former NASDAQ: RTHM) was in the business of providing broadband local-access communication services to large enterprises, telecommunications carriers and their internet service provider (ISP) affiliates and other ISPs. The company's services included a range of high-speed, always-on connections that were designed to offer customers both cost and performance advantages when accessing the Internet or private networks. The Company used multiple digital subscriber line (DSL) technologies to provide data transfer rates ranging from 128 kbit/s to 8.0 Mbit/s delivering data to the end user, and from 128 kbit/s to 1.5 Mbit/s receiving data from the end user. The company was delisted from NASDAQ in May 2001. On August 2, 2001, the Company and all of its wholly owned United States subsidiaries voluntarily filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Also in August 2001, the Company sent 31-day service termination letters to all of its customers.\n\nA protracted class action securities lawsuit against the officers and directors of Rhythms NetConnections was settled on April 3, 2009. Judge John K. Lane of the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado gave his final approval to a $17.5 million settlement. Judge Lane also awarded the plaintiffs' attorneys, Milberg LLP, Stull Stull & Brody and The Shuman Law Firm, 30% of the settlement fund and an additional $2.6 million in expenses from the fund. \n\nA class of shareholders, who purchased shares in Rhythms NetConnections between Jan. 6, 2000, and April 2, 2001, brought the case. The lawsuit alleged that the officers and directors “knowingly or recklessly” made false statements about the company's subscriber line count, growth and financial condition in an effort to inflate its stock price. \n\nAt one time, Enron owned 5.4 million shares of Rhythms NetConnections stock.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798192", "title": "Oskar Becker", "text": "Oskar Becker\n\nOscar Becker (5 September 1889 – 13 November 1964) was a German philosopher, logician, mathematician, and historian of mathematics.\n\nBecker was born in Leipzig, where he studied mathematics. His dissertation under Otto Hölder and Karl Rohn (1914) was \"On the Decomposition of Polygons in non-intersecting triangles on the Basis of the Axioms of Connection and Order.\"\n\nHe served in World War I and returned to study philosophy with Edmund Husserl, writing his \"Habilitationsschrift\" on \"Investigations of the Phenomenological Foundations of Geometry and their Physical Applications\", (1923). Becker was Husserl's assistant, informally, and then official editor of the \"Yearbook for Phenomenological Research\".\n\nHe published \"Mathematical Existence\" his \"magnum opus\", in the \"Yearbook\" in 1927. A famous work that also appeared in the \"Yearbook\" that year was Martin Heidegger's \"Being and Time\". Becker frequently attended Heidegger's seminars during those years.\n\nBecker utilized not only Husserlian phenomenology but, much more controversially, Heideggerian hermeneutics, discussing arithmetical counting as \"being toward death\". His work was criticized both by neo-Kantians and by more mainstream, rationalist logicians, to whom Becker feistily replied. This work has not had great influence on later debates in the foundations of mathematics, despite its many interesting analyses of the topic of its title.\n\nBecker debated with David Hilbert and Paul Bernays over the role of the potential infinite in Hilbert's formalist metamathematics. Becker argued that Hilbert could not stick with finitism, but had to assume the potential infinite. Clearly enough, Hilbert and Bernays do implicitly accept the potential infinite, but they claim that each induction in their proofs is finite. Becker was correct that complete induction was needed for assertions of consistency in the form of universally quantified sentences, as opposed to claiming that a predicate holds for each individual natural number.\n\nBecker made a start toward the formalization of L. E. J. Brouwer's intuitionistic logic. He developed a semantics of intuitionistic logic based on Husserl's phenomenology, and this semantics was used by Arend Heyting in his own formalization. Becker struggled, somewhat unsuccessfully, with the formulation of the rejection of excluded middle appropriate for intuitionistic logic. Becker failed in the end to correctly distinguish classical and intuitionistic negation, but he made a start. In an appendix to his book on mathematical existence, Becker set the problem of finding a formal calculus for intuitionistic logic. In a series of works in the early 1950s he surveyed modal, intuitionistic, probabilistic, and other philosophical logics. \n\nBecker made contributions to modal logic (the logic of necessity and possibility) and \"Becker’s postulate\", the claim that modal status is necessary (for instance that the possibility of \"P\" implies the necessity of the possibility of \"P\", and also the iteration of necessity) is named for him. Becker's Postulate later played a role in the formalization given, by Charles Hartshorne, the American process theologian, of the Ontological Proof of God's existence, stimulated by conversations with the logical positivist and opponent of the alleged proof, Rudolf Carnap.\n\nBecker also made important contributions to the history and interpretation of ancient Greek mathematics. Becker, as did several others, emphasized the \"crisis\" in Greek mathematics occasioned by the discovery of incommensurability of the side of the pentagon (or in the later, simpler proofs, the triangle) by Hippasus of Metapontum, and the threat of (literally) \"irrational\" numbers. To German theorists of the \"crisis\", the Pythagorean diagonal of the square was similar in its impact to Cantor's diagonalization method of generating higher order infinities, and Gödel's diagonalization method in Gödel's proof of incompleteness of formalized arithmetic. Becker, like several earlier historians, suggests that the avoidance of arithmetic statement of geometrical magnitude in Euclid is avoided for ratios and proportions, as a consequence of recoil from the shock of incommensurability. Becker also showed that all the theorems of Euclidean proportion theory could be proved using an earlier alternative to the Eudoxus technique which Becker found stated in \"Aristotle's Topics\", and which Becker attributes to Theaetetus. Becker also showed how a constructive logic that denied unrestricted excluded middle could be used to reconstruct most of Euclid's proofs.\n\nMore recent revisionist commentators such as Wilbur Knorr and David Fowler have accused historians of early Greek mathematics writing in the early twentieth century, such as Becker, of reading the crisis of their own times illegitimately into the early Greek period. (This “crisis” may include both the crisis of twentieth century set theory and foundations of mathematics, and the general crisis of World War I, the overthrow of the Kaiser, communist uprisings, and the Weimar Republic.)\n\nAt the end of his life Becker re-emphasized the distinction between intuition of the formal and Platonic realm as opposed to the concrete existential realm, moved to the terminology, at least, of divination. In his \"Dasein und Dawesen\" Becker advocated what he called a \"mantic\" divination. Hermeneutics of the Heideggerian sort is applicable to individual lived existence, but \"mantic\" decipherment is necessary not only in mathematics, but in aesthetics, and the investigation of the unconscious. These realms deal with the eternal and structural, such as the symmetries of nature, and are properly investigated by a mantic phenomenology, not an hermeneutic one. (Becker's emphasis on the timelessness and formal nature of the unconscious has some parallels with the account of Jacques Lacan.)\n\nBecker carried on an extensive correspondence with some of the greatest mathematicians and philosophers of the day. These included Ackermann, Adolf Fraenkel (later Abraham), Arend Heyting, David Hilbert, John von Neumann, Hermann Weyl, and Ernst Zermelo among mathematicians, as well as Hans Reichenbach and Felix Kaufmann among philosophers. The letters that Becker received from these major figures of twentieth century mathematics and leading logical positivist philosophers, as well as Becker’s own copies of his letters to them, were destroyed during World War II.\n\nBecker's correspondence with Weyl has been reconstructed (see bibliography), as Weyl's copies of Becker’s letters to him are preserved, and Becker often extensively quotes or paraphrases Weyl’s own letters. Perhaps the same can be done with some other parts of this valuable but lost correspondence. Weyl entered into correspondence with Becker with high hopes and expectations, given their mutual admiration for Husserl’s phenomenology and Husserl’s great admiration for the work of Becker. However, Weyl, whose sympathies were with constructivism and intuitionism, lost patience when he argued with Becker about a purported intuition of the infinite defended by Becker. Weyl concluded, sourly, that Becker would discredit phenomenological approaches to mathematics if he persisted in this position.\n\nIt is possible that regard for Becker's earlier work suffered from his later Nazi allegiances, leading to lack of reference or published commentary by émigré logicians and mathematicians who had fled Hitlerism. His lecture on \"The Vacuity of Art and the Daring of the Artist,\" presents a \"Nordic Metaphysics\" in fairly standard Nazi style.\n\nAccording to Oskar Becker, the \"\"rhythm of Nietzsche's Dionysian-Dithyrambs was identical to the Will to power and physically in the sense of youth identical to the marching rhythm of the SA\"\".\n\nOskar Becker was classified from an SS-point of view in the following way in the \"\"SD-Dossiers über Philosophie-Professoren\"\" (i.e. SD-files concerning philosophy professors) that were set up by the SS Security Service (SD): \"not a party member but loyal to National Socialism, tries to consolidate the National Socialistic ideology\".\n\nTwo able philosophers who were students of Becker, Juergen Habermas and Hans Sluga, later grappled with the issue of the influence of Nazism on German academia. The application of Heidegger's ideas to theoretical science (let alone mathematics) has only recently become widespread, particularly in the English-speaking world. Furthermore, Becker's polemical replies probably alienated his critics still further. \n\nHe died, aged 75, in Bonn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798198", "title": "Charles Sumner Hamlin", "text": "Charles Sumner Hamlin\n\nCharles Sumner Hamlin (August 30, 1861 – April 24, 1938) was an American lawyer. He was the first Chairman of the Federal Reserve, serving from 1914 to 1916.\n\nCharles Sumner Hamlin was born in Boston, Massachusetts on August 30, 1861, a son of Anna and Edward Hamlin. His mother was born in England to Irish parents, while his father, a coal dealer, was from Massachusetts.He graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor of arts degree in 1883 and received his master of arts from Harvard in 1886. Sumner studied law while completing his master's degree, attained admission to the bar in 1886, and practiced in Boston.\n\nFrom 1893 to 1897 and again from 1913 to 1914 he was the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. He twice ran unsuccessfully for Governor of Massachusetts, in 1902 and 1910. On August 10, 1914, he was appointed the first Chairman of the Federal Reserve and served in that capacity until August 10, 1916. He lectured at Harvard on government in 1902 and 1903; In 1912 was vice president of the Woodrow Wilson College Men's League and president of the Woodrow Wilson League of Massachusetts; and he published, besides pamphlets on statistical and financial subjects, an \"Index Digest of Interstate Commerce Laws\" (1907) and the \"Index Digest of the Federal Reserve Bulletin\" (1921).\n\nHamlin died in Washington, D.C. on April 24, 1938. He was buried at Forest Hills Cemetery in Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1898 Sumner married Huybertje Lansing Pruyn (April 8, 1878 – March 6, 1964), the daughter of John V. L. Pruyn and granddaughter of Amasa J. Parker.\n\nHamlin's papers are archived at the Library of Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798205", "title": "Titov Vrv", "text": "Titov Vrv\n\nTitov Vrv (, ) is the highest peak in the Šar Mountain at 2,748 m. It is located about northwest of the Macedonian city of Tetovo, near the border with Kosovo. The summit was named after former Yugoslav communist leader Josip Broz Tito. Its original name was \"Голем Турчин/Golem Turčin\" (\"Big Turk\"). In 1934, the peak was renamed Mount Aleksandar after the name of the Yugoslav King Aleksandar, who was assassinated in the same year by a Bulgarian terrorist. During the World War II in Yugoslav Macedonia, the Bulgarian occupier authorities restored its traditional name. After the foundation of Communist Yugoslavia, the peak was renamed in 1953 in accordance with the established cult of personality after Tito. The name has remained unchanged since Macedonian independence in 1991, because the cult status surrounding the benevolent dictator, is still alive there.\n\nEach year on the last weekend of May, mountain club \"Ljuboten\" organises a climb to this peak.\n"}
{"id": "1798211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798211", "title": "VTR (disambiguation)", "text": "VTR (disambiguation)\n\nVTR may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798219", "title": "Hong Kong action cinema", "text": "Hong Kong action cinema\n\nHong Kong action cinema is the principal source of the Hong Kong film industry's global fame. It combines elements from the action film genre, as codified by Hollywood, with Chinese storytelling, aesthetic traditions, action choreography and filmmaking techniques, to create a culturally distinctive form that nevertheless has a wide transcultural appeal. In recent decades, American and European action films have been heavily influenced by Hong Kong genre conventions.\n\nThe first Hong Kong action films favoured the \"wuxia\" style, emphasizing mysticism and swordplay, but this trend was politically suppressed in the 1930s and replaced by kung fu films that depicted more down-to-earth unarmed martial arts, often featuring folk hero Wong Fei Hung. Post-war cultural upheavals led to a second wave of wuxia films with highly acrobatic violence, followed by the emergence of the grittier kung fu films for which the Shaw Brothers studio became best known.\n\nHong Kong action cinema peaked from the 1970s to the 1990s. The 1970s saw a resurgence in kung fu films during the rise and sudden death of Bruce Lee. He was succeeded in the 1980s by Jackie Chan—who popularized the use of comedy, dangerous stunts, and modern urban settings in action films—and Jet Li, whose authentic \"wushu\" skills appealed to both eastern and western audiences. The innovative work of directors and producers like Tsui Hark and John Woo introduced further variety, with genres such as heroic bloodshed and gun fu films, and themes such as triads and the supernatural. However, an exodus by many leading figures to Hollywood in the 1990s coincided with a downturn in the industry.\n\nThe signature contribution to action cinema from the Chinese-speaking world is the martial arts film, the most famous of which were developed in Hong Kong. The genre emerged first in Chinese popular literature. The early 20th century saw an explosion of what were called \"wuxia\" novels (often translated as \"martial chivalry\"), generally published in serialized form in newspapers. These were tales of heroic, sword-wielding warriors, often featuring mystical or fantasy elements. This genre was quickly seized on by early Chinese films, particularly in the movie capital of the time, Shanghai. Starting in the 1920s, \"wuxia\" titles, often adapted from novels (for example, 1928's \"The Burning of the Red Lotus Monastery\" and its eighteen sequels) were hugely popular and the genre dominated Chinese film for several years.\n\nThe boom came to an end in the 1930s, caused by official opposition from cultural and political elites, especially the Kuomintang government, who saw it as promoting superstition and violent anarchy. \"Wuxia\" filmmaking was picked up in Hong Kong, at the time a British colony with a highly liberal economy and culture and a developing film industry. The first martial arts film in Cantonese, the dominant Chinese spoken language of Hong Kong, was \"The Adorned Pavilion\" (1938).\n\nBy the late 1940s, upheavals in mainland China—the Second Sino-Japanese War, the Chinese Civil War, and the victory of the Communist Party of China—had shifted the centre of Chinese language filmmaking to Hong Kong. The industry continued the wuxia tradition in Cantonese B movies and serials, although the more prestigious Mandarin-language cinema generally ignored the genre. Animation and special effects drawn directly on the film by hand were used to simulate the flying abilities and other preternatural powers of characters; later titles in the cycle included \"The Six-Fingered Lord of the Lute\" (1965) and \"Sacred Fire, Heroic Wind\" (1966).\n\nA counter-tradition to the wuxia films emerged in the kung fu movies that were also produced at this time. These movies emphasized more \"authentic\", down-to-earth and unarmed combat over the swordplay and mysticism of \"wuxia\". The most famous exemplar was real-life martial artist Kwan Tak Hing; he became an avuncular hero figure to at least a couple of generations of Hong Kongers by playing historical folk hero Wong Fei Hung in a series of roughly one hundred movies, from \"The True Story of Wong Fei Hung\" (1949) through to \"Wong Fei Hung Bravely Crushing the Fire Formation\" (1970). A number of enduring elements were introduced or solidified by these films: the still-popular character of \"Master Wong\"; the influence of Chinese opera with its stylized martial arts and acrobatics; and the concept of martial arts heroes as exponents of Confucian ethics.\n\nIn the second half of the 1960s, the era's biggest studio, Shaw Brothers, inaugurated a new generation of wuxia films, starting with Xu Zenghong's \"Temple of the Red Lotus\" (1965), a remake of the 1928 classic. These Mandarin productions were more lavish and in colour; their style was less fantastical and more intense, with stronger and more acrobatic violence. They were influenced by imported samurai movies from Japan and by the wave of \"New School\" wuxia novels by authors like Jin Yong and Liang Yusheng that started in the 1950s.\n\nThe New School \"wuxia\" wave marked the move of male-oriented action films to the centre of Hong Kong cinema, which had long been dominated by female stars and genres aimed at female audiences, such as romances and musicals. Even so, during the 1960s female action stars like Cheng Pei-pei and Connie Chan Po-chu were prominent alongside male stars, such as former swimming champion Jimmy Wang Yu, and they continued an old tradition of female warriors in \"wuxia\" storyte directors of the period were Chang Cheh with \"One-Armed Swordsman\" (1967) and \"Golden Swallow\" (1968) and King Hu with \"Come Drink with Me\" (1966). Hu soon left Shaw Brothers to pursue his own vision of \"wuxia\" with independent productions in Taiwan, such as the enormously successful \"Dragon Inn\" (1967, aka \"Dragon Gate Inn\"). Chang stayed on and remained the Shaws' prolific star director into the early 1980s.\n\nThe early 1970s saw \"wuxia\" giving way to a new, grittier and more graphic (and Mandarin-speaking) iteration of the kung fu movie, which came to dominate through the decade and into the early 1980s. Seriously trained martial artists such as Ti Lung and Gordon Liu became some of the top stars as increasing proportions of running times were devoted to combat set-pieces. \"Chinese Boxer\" (1970), starring and directed by Jimmy Wang Yu, is widely credited with launching the kung fu boom. But remaining at the vanguard, at least initially, were Shaw Brothers and director Chang Cheh. Chang's \"Vengeance\" (1970) was another of the first trendsetters and his dozens of contributions included \"The Boxer from Shantung\" (1972), \"Five Deadly Venoms\" (1978) and \"Crippled Avengers\" (1979). Kung fu cinema was particularly influenced by Chang's concern with his vision of masculine values and male friendship; the female warrior figures who had been prominent in late 1960s wuxia work were sidelined, with prominent exceptions such as the popular Angela Mao.\n\nChang's only competitor as the genre's most influential filmmaker was his long-time action choreographer, Lau Kar Leung (aka Liu Chia Liang in Mandarin). Lau began directing his own movies for the Shaw brothers in 1975 with \"The Spiritual Boxer\", a progenitor of the kung fu comedy. In subsequent titles like \"Executioners from Shaolin\" (1977), \"The 36th Chamber of Shaolin\" (1978), and \"Legendary Weapons of China\" (1982), Lau emphasized the traditions and philosophy of the martial arts and strove to give onscreen fighting greater authenticity and ever greater speed and intricacy.\n\nThe kung fu boom was partly fueled by enormous international popularity, and not just in East Asia. In the West, kung fu imports, dubbed and often recut and retitled, shown as \"B\" films in urban theaters and on television, made Hong Kong film widely noticed, although not widely respected, for the first time. African-Americans particularly embraced the genre (as exemplified by the popular hip-hop group, the Wu-Tang Clan) perhaps as an almost unprecedented source of adventure stories with non-white heroes, who furthermore often displayed a strong streak of racial and/or nationalistic pride.\n\nThe popularity of these movies in North America would continue into the 1980s when ninja movies were introduced. In popular culture, the films of this era were colloquially known as \"Kung Fu Theater\" or \"Black Belt Theater\", names that many independent stations used for their weekly airing slot.\n\n\"The Brothers\" (1979), a Shaw Brothers production, was a significant departure from the kung fu films the studio was known for. \"The Brothers\" was an action crime-drama, about two brothers on opposing sides of the law. It was a remake of the Indian crime drama \"Deewaar\" (1975), written by Salim-Javed. In turn, \"The Brothers\" laid the foundations for the heroic bloodshed genre of 1980s Hong Kong cinema, inspiring John Woo's breakthrough film \"A Better Tomorrow\" (1986).\n\nNo single figure was more responsible for this international profile than Bruce Lee, an American-born, Hong Kong-raised martial artist and actor. Lee completed just four movies before his death at the age of 32: \"The Big Boss\" (1971), \"Fist of Fury\" and \"Way of the Dragon\" (both 1972), and \"Enter the Dragon\" (1973). Eastern film historian Patrick Macias ascribes his success to \"(bringing) the warrior spirit of old into the present day... developing his own fighting style... and possessing superhuman charisma\". His first three movies broke local box office records and were successful in much of the world. The English-language \"Enter the Dragon\", the first-ever US-Hong Kong co-production, grossed about US$200 million worldwide, making it the most internationally successful film from that region up to then. Furthermore, his decision at the outset to work for young, upstart studio Golden Harvest, rather than accept the Shaws' notoriously tightfisted standard contract, was a factor in Golden Harvest's meteoric rise and Shaw's eventual decline.\n\nFollowing Lee's untimely death, a cottage industry of faux Lee movies emerged, featuring either performers who adopted similar screen names (Bruce Li, Bruce Lai, etc.), or outtake footage of Lee, or some combination of both. The fad did little to engender mainstream respect in the West for the relatively new phenomenon of martial arts cinema. But despite such posthumous treatment, Lee continues to cast a long shadow over Hong Kong film.\n\nThe only Chinese performer who has ever rivalled Bruce Lee's global fame is Jackie Chan. Like many kung fu performers of the day, Chan came out of training in Peking opera and started in film as a stuntman, notably in some of Lee's vehicles. He was groomed for a while by \"The Big Boss\" and \"Fist of Fury\" director Lo Wei as another Lee clone, in several movies including \"New Fist of Fury\" (1976), with little success. But in 1978, Chan teamed up with action choreographer Yuen Woo Ping on Yuen's directorial debut, \"Snake in the Eagle's Shadow\". The resulting blend of physical comedy and kung fu action provided Chan with his first hit and the rudiments of what would become his signature style. Chan's follow-up movie with Yuen, \"Drunken Master\" (also 1978), and his directorial debut, \"The Fearless Hyena\" (1979), were also giant hits and cemented his popularity.\nAlthough these films were not the first kung fu comedies, they launched a vogue that helped reinvigorate the waning kung fu genre. Especially notable in this regard were two of Chan's childhood Peking Opera School classmates, Sammo Hung and Yuen Biao, who also made careers of this specialty, sometimes co-starring with Chan. Hung, noted for the seeming paradox of his overweight physique and physical agility, also made a name for himself as a director and action choreographer from early on, with titles like \"Enter the Fat Dragon\" (1978).\n\nChan's clowning may have helped extend the life of the kung fu wave for several years. Nevertheless, he became a star towards the end of the boom, and would soon help move the colony towards a new type of action. In the 1980s, he and many colleagues would forge a slicker, more spectacular Hong Kong pop cinema that would successfully compete with the post-\"Star Wars\" summer blockbusters from America.\n\nIn 1982, Jackie Chan began experimenting with elaborate stunt action sequences in \"Dragon Lord\", which featured a pyramid fight scene that holds the record for the most takes required for a single scene, with 2900 takes, and the final fight scene where he performs various stunts, including one where he does a back flip off a loft and falls to the lower ground. By 1983, Chan branched out into action films which, though they still used martial arts, were less limited in scope, setting and plot. His first film in this vein, \"Project A\", saw the official formation of the Jackie Chan Stunt Team and added elaborate, dangerous stunts to the fights and typical slapstick humor (at one point, Chan falls from the top of a clock tower through a series of fabric canopies). The new formula helped \"Project A\" gross over HK$19 million.\n\nChan continued to take the approach – and the budgets – to new heights in hits like \"Police Story\" (1985). Here was Chan dangling from a speeding bus, sliding down a pole covered with exploding light bulbs, and destroying large parts of a shopping centre and a hillside shantytown. The 1988 sequel called for explosions on a scale similar to many Hollywood movies and seriously injured leading lady Maggie Cheung – an occupational risk Chan had already grown used to. Thus Jackie Chan created the template for the contemporary urban action-comedy of the 1980s, combining cops, kung fu and all the body-breaking potential of the modern city with its glass, metal and speeding vehicles.\n\nChan's move towards larger-scale action films was paralleled by work coming out of Cinema City, the production company established in 1980 by comedians Raymond Wong, Karl Maka and Dean Shek. With movies like the spy spoof \"Aces Go Places\" (1982) and its sequels, Cinema City helped make modern special effects, James Bond-type gadgets and big vehicular stunts part of the industry vernacular. Director/producer Tsui Hark had a hand in shaping the Cinema City style while employed there from 1981–1983 but went on to make an even bigger impact after leaving. In such movies as \"Zu Warriors from the Magic Mountain\" (1983) and \"A Chinese Ghost Story\" (1987, directed by Ching Siu-tung), he kept pushing back the boundaries of Hong Kong special effects. He led the way in replacing the rough and ready camera style of 1970s kung fu with glossier and more sophisticated visuals and ever more furious editing.\n\nAs a producer, Tsui Hark facilitated the creation of John Woo's epoch-making heroic bloodshed movie \"A Better Tomorrow\" (1986). Woo's saga of cops and the triads (Chinese gangsters) combined fancifully choreographed (and extremely violent) gunplay with heightened emotional melodrama, sometimes resembling a modern-dress version of 1970s kung fu films by Woo's mentor Chang Cheh. The formula broke another all-time box office record. It also jump-started the faltering career of co-star Chow Yun-fat, who overnight became one of the colony's most popular idols and Woo's favorite leading man.\n\nFor the remainder of the 1980s and into the early 1990s, a deluge of films by Woo and others explored similar territory, often with a similar visual style and thematic bent. They were usually marked by an emphasis on the fraternal bonds of duty and affection among the criminal protagonists. The most notable other \"auteur\" of these themes was Ringo Lam, who offered a less romanticized take in such films as \"City on Fire\", \"Prison on Fire\" (both 1987), and \"Full Contact\" (1992), all starring Chow Yun-Fat. The genre and its creators were accused in some quarters of cravenly glorifying real-life triads, whose involvement in the film business was notorious.\n\nAs the triad films petered out in the early 1990s, period martial arts returned as the favored action genre. But this was a new martial arts cinema that took full advantage of technical strides as well the higher budgets that came with Hong Kong's dominance of the region's screens. These lavish productions were often adapted from the more fantastical wuxia novels, which featured flying warriors in mid-air combat. Performers were trussed up on ultrathin wires to allow them to conduct gravity-defying action sequences, a technique known by Western fans, sometimes disparagingly, as wire fu.\n\nAs so often, Tsui Hark led the way. He produced \"Swordsman\" (1990), which reestablished the wuxia novels of Jin Yong as favorite big-screen sources (television adaptations had long been ubiquitous). He directed \"Once Upon a Time in China\" (1991), which resurrected oft-filmed folk hero Wong Fei Hung. Both films were followed by sequels and a raft of imitations, often starring Mainland wushu champion Jet Li. He went on to receive a special award for a mainland China person at the 1995 Taipei Golden Horse Film Festival. The other signature star of the subgenre was Taiwanese-born actress Brigitte Lin. She made an unlikely specialty of androgynous woman-warrior types, such as the villainous, sex-changing eunuch in \"The Swordsman 2\" (1992), epitomizing martial arts fantasy's often-noted fascination with gender instability.\n\nAll of these developments not only made Hong Kong the dominant cinema in East Asia, but reawakened Western interest. Building on the reduced but enduring kung fu movie subculture, Jackie Chan and films like Tsui Hark's \"Peking Opera Blues\" (1986) were already building a cult following when Woo's \"The Killer\" (1989) had a limited but successful release in the U.S. and opened the floodgates. In the '90s, Westerners with an eye on \"alternative\" culture became common sights in Chinatown video shops and theaters, and gradually the films became more available in the mainstream video market and even occasionally in mainstream theaters. Western critics and film scholars also began to take Hong Kong action cinema seriously and made many key figures and films part of their canon of world cinema.\n\nFrom here, Hong Kong came to define a new vocabulary for worldwide action cinema, with the aid of a new generation of North American filmmakers. Quentin Tarantino's \"Reservoir Dogs\" (1992) drew inspiration from \"City on Fire\" and his two-part \"Kill Bill\" (2003–04) was in large part a martial arts homage, borrowing Yuen Woo-Ping as fight choreographer and actor. Robert Rodriguez's \"Desperado\" (1995) and its 2003 sequel \"Once Upon a Time in Mexico\" aped Woo's visual mannerisms. The Wachowski brothers' \"The Matrix\" trilogy (1999–2003) of science-fiction-action blockbusters borrowed from Woo and wire fu movies and also employed Yuen behind the scenes. Martin Scorsese's \"The Departed\" (2006) was a remake of the \"Infernal Affairs\" trilogy (2002–2003) by Andrew Lau and Alan Mak.\n\nThe heroic bloodshed genre had a considerable impact on world cinema, especially Hollywood. The action, style, tropes and mannerisms established in 1980s Hong Kong heroic bloodshed films were later widely adopted by Hollywood in the 1990s, reshaping the way Hollywood action films were made. Lam's \"City on Fire\" (1987) inspired Quentin Tarantino's \"Reservoir Dogs\" (1992); Tarantino was an admirer of the heroic bloodshed genre. \"The Killer\" also heavily influenced Luc Besson's \"\" (1994). Eventually, John Woo himself introduced his brand of heroic bloodshed to Hollywood in the 1990s. By the late 1990s, Woo's style of cinema had become firmly established in Hollywood.\n\nDue to the new-found international awareness of Hong Kong films during the 1980s and early 1990s and a downturn in the industry as the 1990s progressed, many of the leading lights of Hong Kong cinema left for Hollywood, which offered budgets and pay which could not be equalled by Hong Kong production companies.\n\nJohn Woo left for Hollywood after his 1992 film \"Hard Boiled\". His 1997 film \"Face/Off\" was the breakthrough that established his unique style in Hollywood. This effort was immensely popular with both critics and public alike (it grossed over US$240 million worldwide). \"\" (2000) grossed over US$560 million worldwide. Since these two films, Woo has struggled to revisit his successes of the 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nAfter over fifteen years of success in Hong Kong cinema and a couple of attempts to crack the U.S. market, Jackie Chan's 1995 film \"Rumble in the Bronx\" finally brought him recognition in the U.S. Since then, he has made several highly successful films for U.S. studios including \"Rush Hour\" (1998), \"Shanghai Noon\" (2000), and their respective sequels. Between his films for U.S. studios, he still makes films for Hong Kong studios, sometimes in English (\"Mr. Nice Guy\" and \"Who Am I?\"), often set in western countries like Australia or the Netherlands, and sometimes in Cantonese (2004's \"New Police Story\" and 2006's \"Rob-B-Hood\"). Because of his enormous U.S. popularity, these films are usually released in the U.S., a rarity for Hong Kong films, and generally attract respectable audience numbers.\n\nJet Li has reduced his Hong Kong output since 1998's \"Hitman\" concentrating on Hollywood instead. After a minor role in \"Lethal Weapon 4\" (1998), he has gone on to star in several Hollywood films which have performed respectably and made a name for him with American audiences. So far, he has returned to Chinese cinema for only two films: \"Hero\" (2002) and \"Fearless\" (2006). He claimed \"Fearless\" would be his last traditional kung fu film. Chow Yun-fat has also moved to Hollywood. After his 1995 film \"Peace Hotel\", he has made a handful of films in Hollywood which have not seen as much success as Jet Li's: these include \"The Replacement Killers\" (1998), \"The Corruptor\" (1999), \"Anna and the King\" (1999) and \"Bulletproof Monk\" (2003). He returned to China for 2000's \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\" and 2006's \"Curse of the Golden Flower\".\n\nThe Hong Kong film industry has been in a severe slump since the mid-1990s. The number of local films produced, and their box office takings, are dramatically reduced; American imports now dominate in a way they had not for decades, or perhaps ever. This crisis and increased contact with Western cinema have probably been the biggest recent influences on Hong Kong action cinema.\n\nLuring local and regional youth audiences away from Hollywood is a constant concern. Action movies are now generally headlined by babyfaced Cantonese pop music idols, such as Ekin Cheng and Nicholas Tse, enhanced with wires and digital effects – a trend also driven by the waning of a previous generation of martial arts-trained stars. The late 1990s witnessed a fad for Cantopop stars in high-tech, more American-styled action pictures such as \"Downtown Torpedoes\" (1997), \"Gen-X Cops\" and \"Purple Storm\" (both 1999).\n\nAndrew Lau's wuxia comic-book adaptation \"The Storm Riders\" (1998) earned a record-breaking gross and ushered in an era of computer-generated imagery, previously little used in Hong Kong film. Tsui Hark's lavish CGI-enhanced efforts \"Time and Tide\" (2000) and \"The Legend of Zu\" (2001), however, were surprisingly unsuccessful. Comedy megastar and director Stephen Chow used digital effects to push his typical affectionate parody of martial arts conventions to cartoonish levels in \"Shaolin Soccer\" (2001) and \"Kung Fu Hustle\" (2004), each of which also set a new box office record.\n\nStriking a different note were a series of crime films more restrained and actor-driven than the earlier, John Woo-inspired examples. The Milkyway Image production company was at the vanguard with examples like Patrick Yau's \"Expect the Unexpected\" (1998), Johnnie To's \"The Mission\" (1999) and \"Running Out of Time\" (1999). Andrew Lau and Alan Mak's blockbuster \"Infernal Affairs\" trilogy (2002–2003) has set off a mini-trend of brooding police thrillers.\n\nCollaboration with other industries, particularly that of Mainland China, is another increasingly common survival and recovery strategy. Hong Kong stars and other personnel have been involved in international wuxia successes like \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\" (2000), \"Hero\" (2002) and \"House of Flying Daggers\" (2004).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798225", "title": "Compact theory", "text": "Compact theory\n\nCompact theory refers to two theories related to the development of federal constitutions. In the United States, it differs from the contract theory in that it favored the rights of states over those of the Federal Government.\n\nRegarding the Constitution of the United States, the compact theory holds that the country was formed through a compact agreed upon by all the states, and that the federal government is thus a creation of the states. Consequently, states should be the final arbiters over whether the federal government had overstepped the limits of its authority as set forth in the compact.\n\nLeading proponents of this view of the U.S. Constitution primarily originated from Virginia and other southern states. Notable proponents of the theory include Thomas Jefferson. Under this theory and in reaction to the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, Jefferson claimed the federal government overstepped its authority, and advocated nullification of the laws by the states. The first resolution of the Kentucky Resolutions began by stating:\nResolved, that the several States composing the United States of America, are not united on the principles of unlimited submission to their General Government; but that by compact under the style and title of a Constitution for the United States and of amendments thereto, they constituted a General Government for special purposes, delegated to that Government certain definite powers, reserving each State to itself, the residuary mass of right to their own self Government; and that whensoever the General Government assumes undelegated powers, its acts are unauthoritative, void, and of no force; that to this compact each state acceded as a state, and is an integral party; that the Government created by this compact was not made the exclusive or final judge of the extent of the powers delegated to itself; since that would have made its discretion, and not the Constitution, the measure of its powers; but that, as in all other cases of compact among powers having no common judge, each party has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of infractions as of the mode and measure of redress.\n\nMeanwhile, James Madison had asserted in Federalist No. 39, that \"the people\" were not as individuals composing one entire nation, but as composing the distinct and independent States to which they respectively belong;\" and that the Constitution was \"to be the assent and ratification of the several States, derived from the supreme authority in each State, the authority of the people themselves\"; and that \"the act of the people, as forming so many independent States, not as forming one aggregate nation, is obvious from this single consideration\". Likewise, as noted in Article VII of the Constitution, ratification took place not by a single popular convention, but conventions of the ratifying states only, and would carry the Constitution into effect between those ratifying states only.\n\nOthers have taken the position that the federal government is not a compact among the states, but instead was formed directly by the people, in their exercise of their sovereign power. The people determined that the federal government should be superior to the states. Under this view, the states, which are not parties to the Constitution, do not have the right to determine for themselves the proper scope of federal authority, but instead are bound by the determinations of the federal government. The state of Vermont took this position in response to the Kentucky Resolutions. Daniel Webster advocated this view in his debate with Robert Hayne in the Senate in 1830:\n\n[I]t cannot be shown, that the Constitution is a compact between State governments. The Constitution itself, in its very front, refutes that idea; it, declares that it is ordained and established \"by the people of the United States\". So far from saying that it is established by the governments \"of the several States\", it does not even say that it is established by the people of the several States; but it pronounces that it is established by the people of the United States, in the aggregate. ... When the gentleman says the Constitution is a compact between the States, he uses language exactly applicable to the old Confederation. He speaks as if he were in Congress before 1789. He describes fully that old state of things then existing. The Confederation was, in strictness, a compact; the States, as States, were parties to it. We had no other general government. But that was found insufficient, and inadequate to the public exigencies. The people were not satisfied with it, and undertook to establish a better. They undertook to form a general government, which should stand on a new basis; not a confederacy, not a league, not a compact between States, but a \"Constitution\"; a popular government, founded in popular election, directly responsible to the people themselves, and divided into branches with prescribed limits of power, and prescribed duties. They ordained such a government, they gave it the name of a \"Constitution\", therein they established a distribution of powers between this, their general government, and their several State governments.\n\nThe leading nineteenth century commentary on the Constitution, Justice Joseph Story's \"Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States\" (1833), likewise rejected the compact theory, concluding that the Constitution was established directly by the people, not by the states, and that it constitutes supreme law, not a mere compact.\n\nIn the years before the Civil War, the compact theory was used by Southern states to argue that they had a right to nullify federal law and to secede from the union. For example, during the Nullification Crisis of 1828-1832, John C. Calhoun argued in his South Carolina Exposition and Protest that the states, as the parties to a compact, had the right to judge for themselves whether the terms of the compact were being honored. Calhoun described this \"right of judging\" as \"an essential attribute of sovereignty,\" which the states retained when the Constitution was formed. Calhoun said the states had the right to nullify, or veto, any laws that were inconsistent with the compact.\n\nWhen the Southern states seceded in 1860-61, they relied on the compact theory to justify secession. The southern states argued that the Northern states had violated the compact by undermining and attacking the institution of slavery and the slaveholders' property rights in their slaves. The Southern states stated that they therefore were justified in withdrawing from the compact among the states.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has rejected the idea that the Constitution is a compact among the states. Rather, the Court has stated that the Constitution was established directly by the people of the United States, not by the states.\n\nIn one of the Supreme Court's first significant decisions, \"Chisholm v. Georgia\" (1793), Chief Justice John Jay stated that the Constitution was established directly by the people. Jay noted the language of the Preamble of the Constitution, which says that the Constitution was ordained and established by \"We the people,\" and stated: \"Here we see the people acting as sovereigns of the whole country, and, in the language of sovereignty, establishing a Constitution by which it was their will that the State governments should be bound.\"\n\nIn \"Martin v. Hunter's Lessee\" (1816), the Supreme Court explicitly rejected the idea that the Constitution is a compact among the states, stating: \"The Constitution of the United States was ordained and established not by the States in their sovereign capacities, but emphatically, as the preamble of the Constitution declares, by 'the people of the United States.'\" The Court contrasted the earlier Articles of Confederation with the Constitution, characterizing the Articles of Confederation as a compact among states, while stating that the Constitution was established not by the states, but by the people.\n\nLikewise, in \"McCulloch v. Maryland\" (1819), the Supreme Court stated that the federal Constitution proceeded directly from the people, and was not created by the states. The Court stated that the Constitution was binding on the states and could not be negated by the states. The Court again contrasted the Articles of Confederation, which was established by the states, to the Constitution, which was established by the people.\n\nAfter the Civil War, in \"Texas v. White\" (1869), a case discussing the legal status of the southern states that had attempted to secede, the Supreme Court stated that the union was not merely a compact among states; rather, the union was \"something more than a compact.\"\n\nIn the Canadian context, compact theory posits that Confederation was an agreement between the two founding peoples, French and English, and that therefore Quebec should have special veto powers relating to its position in the federal structure. However, compact theory was rejected by the Supreme Court of Canada in the 1981 Patriation Reference. Compact theory is often advanced by Quebec nationalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798235", "title": "Airdrie and Shotts", "text": "Airdrie and Shotts\n\nAirdrie and Shotts may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798237", "title": "Album Shaper", "text": "Album Shaper\n\nAlbum Shaper is cross-platform open source (GNU GPL) photo organizer, editor, and web gallery generator. Based on the Qt produced by Trolltech, Album Shaper runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, FreeBSD, and other X11 based systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798247", "title": "Community band", "text": "Community band\n\nA community band is a concert band or brass band ensemble composed of volunteer (non-paid) amateur musicians in a particular geographic area. It may be sponsored by the local (municipal) government or self-supporting. These groups rehearse regularly and perform at least once a year. Some bands are also marching bands, participating in parades and other outdoor events. Although they are volunteer musical organizations, community bands may employ an Artistic Director (conductor) or various operational staff.\n\nCommunity bands can also be known as \"town,\" \"citizen,\" \"municipal\", or \"civic\" bands. They may use the terms \"wind orchestra,\" \"wind symphony\", or \"wind ensemble\" in place of \"band\". A group of this type often includes the name of the community or organization which sponsors it, the town or county where it is based, or a local geographical landmark or regional term in its name.\n\nIn the United States, community band concerts are most frequently given during holidays and patriotic events, such as the Fourth of July, Memorial Day, Father's Day, and the lighting of community Christmas trees. During the summer, most community concerts are given outdoors. The size of a community band varies from about ten musicians to over one hundred. During the United States Bicentennial, having a community band was one of the criteria for being designated a \"Bicentennial City\". There are about 2,500 community bands across the United States.\n\nThe modern American community band is rooted in European tradition. Immigrants, like the German Moravians who settled in Pennsylvania and North Carolina, brought the band tradition with them to the United States. The Moravians organized bands in towns where they settled, and they offered both secular and religious music selections. The Moravian bands are still playing in Moravian communities, such as in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.\n\nCommunity bands in the United States often emerged from militia or military bands. The earliest amateur bands in the United States did occasionally include woodwind instruments but band and band music emphasized primarily the brass instruments. The popularity of early community bands can be attributed to the participation of thousands of ordinary citizens in these ensembles and the patriotic appeal of the music and performance.\n\nThere is one estimate that there were 10,000 bands in the United States in 1889. Of those, close to 100 are still active. Wartime patriotism, such as the War of 1812, the Civil War, World War I and II, and even the recent war with Iraq have added to the popularity and number of community bands.\n\nIn 1921, famous band composer Karl King was influential in establishing the Iowa Band Law, which allowed cities to levy a local tax “for the maintenance and employment of a band for musical purposes.” This law was eventually adopted by 28 other states.\n\nCommunity bands experienced a great dying out after the end of World War I, victims of the automobile, new mass media, and a large cultural shift. This actually led to a rise in school music programs; the death of community bands left instrument manufacturers without a market for their product, so they marketed heavily to schools.\n\nThe increased number of musicians that learned to play an instrument in high school or college bands but did not pursue music as a career has also provided a rich pool of amateur talent seeking an outlet for their musical abilities. An increased availability of music written for concert band has also benefitted the community band from after World War II to the present.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798249", "title": "Jackie Tyler", "text": "Jackie Tyler\n\nJackie Tyler is a fictional character played by Camille Coduri in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". The character, a resident of contemporary London, is introduced in the first episode of the 2005 revival as the mother of Rose Tyler, a travelling companion of the alien time traveller the Doctor. Jackie is a recurring character during the 2005 and 2006 series of the show, and later makes one-off appearances in 2008 and 2010. The character has also appeared in expanded universe material such as the \"Doctor Who\" New Series Adventures novels and the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip.\n\nWithin the series narrative, Jackie is a widow who lives alone with her daughter Rose until Rose leaves her mundane life behind to travel through time and space with the Doctor. Jackie's feeling of loss and of being left behind is explored in subsequent episodes. As the character is brought into danger by her proximity to the Doctor, she resents his influence over Rose. However, once he undergoes a regeneration, effectively becoming a new man, Jackie has a more cordial relationship with him. The character was written out at the end of the 2006 series, along with Rose, in a storyline which sees them trapped in a parallel universe where Jackie forms a new relationship with an alternate version of her deceased husband Pete Tyler.\n\nIn reviving the television series after a sixteen-year hiatus (1989–2005), executive producer Russell T Davies was keen to provide a believable background for the Doctor's companion and a context for her travels to the past and future. The character of Jackie was created, along with Rose's on/off boyfriend Mickey, to keep the series grounded in reality. In writing Jackie, Davies incorporated both comic and tragic elements. Following the departure of the Tyler family, Davies was keen to bring Jackie back alongside Rose for future appearances. Reviewers generally reacted positively to the development of the character, though some identified unlikeable traits.\n\nJackie is introduced in \"Rose\" (2005) as the late-thirties single mother of the episode's eponymous character, Rose Tyler (Billie Piper). After the Ninth Doctor (Christopher Eccleston) arrives at Jackie's flat in search of Rose, Jackie attempts to seduce him. She is later attacked by shop window dummies but is saved when Rose and the Doctor destroy the alien consciousness able to control plastic. When Rose returns to London, twelve months have passed; in the intervening year Jackie had organised a missing person campaign to search for her daughter and accused Rose's boyfriend Mickey Smith (Noel Clarke) of murder. She also suspects the Doctor of being an internet predator. She learns the truth about Rose's new life after battling the Slitheen and being present with Mickey as he organises a missile strike to destroy the aliens. The episode \"Father's Day\" depicts two younger versions of Jackie also played by Coduri. It is shown that whilst Rose was a child (Julia Joyce) Jackie told her idyllic stories of her deceased father, Pete (Shaun Dingwall). Rose attends her parents' marriage, in which Pete is unable to recite Jackie's full name, Jacqueline Andrea Suzette Prentice, and after then travelling ahead to 1987, learns that her father was a failed entrepreneur and that her parents' marriage had been stormy; Jackie suspects Pete is an adulterer and also threatens him with divorce. In the 2005 series finale, \"The Parting of the Ways\", Jackie is glad to have Rose home after the Doctor returns her to the 21st century from the far future in order to protect her. She is persuaded to help return Rose to save the Doctor after Rose mentions her encounter with her father, reminding Jackie that he would try anything rather than give up.\n\nIn the 2005 Christmas day episode \"The Christmas Invasion\" Jackie is bewildered by the Doctor's new incarnation (David Tennant) and concerned about the side-effects of his regeneration. When he recovers, Jackie is happy for Rose to resume travelling with him. In \"Rise of the Cybermen\" and \"The Age of Steel\" (2006) Coduri plays a parallel universe Jackie, who is rich and famous because of the parallel Pete Tyler's success. This version of Jackie is intent on maintaining a facade; she hides the fact her marriage is deteriorating, denies turning forty and chastises Rose for speaking to her whilst posing as staff. Rose and the parallel universe Pete try to save her when the Cybermen invade, but she is killed during the attack. In \"Love & Monsters\", Jackie expresses how hard and lonely it has been to be left behind by her daughter. After learning a romantic interest, Elton Pope (Marc Warren), only befriended her to track Rose and the Doctor, Jackie, she throws him out of her house, stating a priority to defend the Doctor and Rose. In \"Army of Ghosts\" Jackie is unwillingly taken in the TARDIS, the Doctor's time machine, to the Torchwood Institute where he brings her on an investigation. In \"Doomsday\", due to invading Cybermen from the parallel universe, the walls between universes break down and Jackie meets the parallel universe version of Pete. The defeat of warring Cybermen and Dalek armies results in Jackie being sent to the parallel universe, where Rose is also later trapped. In the epilogue it is mentioned that Jackie is in a relationship with Pete and expecting a baby.\n\nIn the series four finale episode \"Journey's End\" (2008), Jackie returns to her original earth with Mickey in order to find Rose, who has travelled back to stop the Daleks destroying reality. Comfortable carrying a large gun, Jackie blows up a Dalek to save former companion Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen). After a half-human genetic clone of the Doctor wipes out the Daleks, Jackie returns to the parallel universe with Rose, who is tasked with healing the new Doctor. It is revealed that Jackie and Pete now have a young son named Tony. Jackie cameos in David Tennant's final story, \"The End of Time\" when the dying Tenth Doctor visits the Powell estate on New Year's Day 2005 to bid a final farewell to Rose.\n\nJackie appears in several of the Ninth and Tenth Doctor New Series Adventures novels. In \"Winner Takes All\" by Jacqueline Rayner, published in May 2005, Jackie falls for a scheme to take humans \"on holiday\" to fight in an alien war. A thug who lives in Rose's estate mugs Jackie and takes the \"winning ticket\" that qualifies her for the trip. Jackie ends up in hospital, but her assailant fares worse: he takes her place as a remote-controlled soldier on an alien planet, and is killed. Jackie makes cameo appearances in \"Only Human\" by Gareth Roberts and \"The Stealers of Dreams\" by Steve Lyons published in September 2005. In \"Only Human\", a time-lost Neanderthal flirts with Jackie at a London nightclub before Captain Jack Harkness steers him away from her, feeling that Jackie would not appreciate further Doctor-related strangeness in her life. In \"The Stealers of Dreams\", Rose uses the \"superphone\" to call Jackie from a human colony world in the future. Jackie complains that Rose did not let her know she was going to be in Cardiff during her recent visit to that city. Jackie appears in the introductory section of \"The Stone Rose\", released in April 2006, in which she and Mickey alert the Doctor and Rose to a strange statue of Rose in the British Museum. Released the same month, \"The Feast of the Drowned\" by Stephen Cole, is set wholly on contemporary earth and explores the context of Jackie's relationship with Rose further. When Rose is captured by the malevolent \"waterhive\", Jackie is targeted by ghostly apparitions seeking to lure her to the same fate.\n\nJackie also appears in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip \"The Green-Eyed Monster\" in which she and the Tenth Doctor feign a romantic relationship in order to free Rose from possession by a creature that feeds on jealousy.\n\nFollowing the folding of AudioGO and Big Finish's acquisition of the new series license, Billie Piper and David Tennant reprised their roles as Rose Tyler and the Tenth Doctor in \"\". Coduri reprised her role as Jackie in the story titled \"Infamy of the Zaross\", released in November 2017. Cordui narrated two short trips titled \"The Siege of Big Ben\" and \"Flight into Hull\". Coduri featured in the \"Ninth Doctor Chronicles\" alongside Piper and Adam Mitchell (Bruno Langley) and is due to return in \"Rose Tyler - The Dimension Canon\".\n\nIn creating Rose as a new companion for the 2005 revival of \"Doctor Who\" executive producer and lead writer Russell T Davies felt that it would be necessary to examine the questions of \"do her family miss her?\" and \"has she gone missing?\" which he believed to be unavoidable questions. Davies created Jackie and Mickey and provided a story structure that would see Rose return frequently to them in order to make her \"real\" and to \"give her a life\". In Davies' original pitch for the series, Jackie was initially named Judy Tyler. The roles of Jackie and Mickey were cast alongside other guest characters for the 2005 series' first production block including Joseph Green and Indra Ganesh from \"Aliens of London\" and \"World War Three\". Camille Coduri was suggested to casting director Andy Pryor and the other members of the production team by executive producer Mal Young. Both producer Phil Collinson and executive producer Julie Gardner felt that Coduri and Billie Piper (Rose) physically resembled each other and this aided the portrayal of their mother/daughter relationship. Discussing Coduri's casting, Collinson stated that she \"understood what Jackie was, from the very first scene she read\". Coduri was already \"very familiar\" with Davies' work as writer and executive producer and so \"was very excited and quite terrified\" about being part of the series because of her level of respect for him.\n\nCoduri felt Jackie to share similarities with herself, insofar as she is \"very protective of [her] children\" and a \"bit gobby\". The \"Doctor Who Annual 2006\", published in August 2005, gives further background information on Jackie in an article written by Russell T Davies. Davies states that Jackie supports herself financially by working occasionally from home as a hairdresser. In the \"Journal of Commonwealth Literature\" Lindy A. Orthia observes that the \"giro-collecting\" Jackie is part of the group of companions introduced in Davies' era of \"Doctor Who\" that are \"drawn from a cosmopolitan vision\" in that they are all \"black, queer and/or working class.\" Orthia contends that whilst working-class companions had featured previously in the show \"none were unskilled workers nor chronically under- or unemployed like Rose, Donna and Jackie.\"\n\nPiper felt that in series one the relationship between Rose and Jackie is \"like any mother-daughter relationship\" in that as much as Rose loves her mother \"there's also this resentment there\" because Jackie tries to stop her \"moving forward\". Despite sometimes writing Jackie as a comic character, Davies chose to examine the sadder aspects of her character such as her loneliness and unwillingness to let Rose go. In his book \"The Writer's Tale\", Davies expresses his contention that comedy and sadness are often inseparable and states that though “Jackie Tyler makes us laugh\" he knew he would \"uncover something sad at the heart of her\". He argues that even as far back as \"Rose\" Jackie is \"holding Rose back\" citing her suggestion her daughter work in a butcher's shop. Discussing Jackie's attempted seduction of the Doctor, Coduri stated that her character \"has the hots for him\" and in general \"loves the company of men and is always looking for Mr Right\". Promoting her role in the 2005 Christmas special, Coduri describes Jackie as being “not very good in a crisis” and \"a bit of a screamer\" in contrast to Rose who is adept at saving the world. Andy Pryor believes that Coduri's acting ability influenced the writing decisions regarding the character in the second series. He felt Jackie' actions in the second series were \"incredibly moving\" as a result of Coduri's acting range. Gardner concurred, stating in 2006 that \"she's grown in performance, episode by episode\". In the commentary for \"Army of Ghosts\" Davies expresses delight at having Jackie aboard the TARDIS. He stated that he had been \"dying\" to have Jackie take Rose's place for an episode. To explain Torchwood not realising that Jackie was not Rose, Davies amended the script for \"Love & Monsters\" to mention that Torchwood's files on Rose had been corrupted by the \"Bad Wolf\" virus. Ahead of 2006 series finale \"Doomsday\" Coduri expected the character of Jackie to be killed off in a \"comic but sad moment.\" She was therefore pleasantly surprised to discover that the character would be sent to live in a parallel universe instead.\n\nDavies had planned for the character to return in the fourth series finale since the episodes were first conceived and had asked Coduri to keep four weeks free for filming. In January 2008, whilst still writing the scripts, Davies became afraid that there was not space for the character. Her appearance was set to be reduced to a single scene at 'Bad Wolf Bay' at the end of \"Journey's End\". He also was concerned that because the character has a young son it would not have made dramatic sense for her \"to enter a bloody battlezone.\" Eventually, he decided to pair the character with Mickey and Sarah Jane and reasoned that seeking her daughter provided enough motivation for her to get involved in the conflict. Returning to the series in 2008 for \"Journey's End\", Coduri initially felt it was “weird” to be playing Jackie again. She describes Jackie as being “braver” in this episode but frightened of \"losing Rose full stop.\" When asked in 2011 whether she would return to the series, Coduri stated that she would return if asked but felt it was not likely because she had already \"been back to say goodbye at least twice\" and believes that the story has been wrapped up.\n\nJames Chapman, author of the book \"Inside the Tardis: The Worlds of Doctor Who\", identifies the presence of Jackie and Mickey as part of Davies attempt to \"create a social context\" for Rose. In a 2006 essay entitled\n\"Jackie Tyler Leaves the TV On\", television writer and author Paul Cornell notes that whilst some fans would rather see less time devoted to Rose's family, Jackie is emblematic of a section of the revival of \"Doctor Who\"s target demographic. Kay McFadden of \"The Seattle Times\" felt the character to be \"antic\" and overbearing\" in the premiere episode, whilst \"SFX\" described the character's appearance in \"The End of the World\" as a \"wonderful moment\" that reminded the audience of the context of the adventure. Charles McGrath of \"The New York Times\", in a review of \"Rose\" and \"The End of the World\", described Jackie as \"vain\" and \"slutty\". In their unauthorised guide to the revival of \"Doctor Who\" Graeme Burk and Robert Smith? identify \"Aliens of London\" and \"World War Three\" as a turning point in the character from comic relief to a character the audience \"are invested in and care about\". For the authors, the moment where Jackie and Mickey stand behind \"Rose's mad dream\" in \"The Parting of the Ways\" is the \"stand up and cheer moment to end them all\".\n\n\"SFX\" reviewer Nick Setchfield praised Davies' \"populist voice\" in relation to Jackie's characterisation in \"Love and Monsters\" stating \"there’s something just right about Jackie seducing Elton to the Asda charms of Il Divo.\" He commented that the script provided something \"genuinely moving about Jackie’s desperation\" which was \"well played by Coduri\". Similarly, IGN's Ahsan Haque felt that Jackie 's \"attention seeking attraction towards Elton was handled extremely well.\" Burk and Smith? identify Jackie's \"because it's hard\" speech as \"Coduri's best acting in the series, bar none\" opining that the actress \"infuses her scenes with comic brilliance, wistful reflection and raw anger, all in the space of several minutes\". They felt that Davies keeps \"[her] humorous elements intact and shows us the bittersweet pain that underpins it.\" In his review of \"Army of Ghosts\" Arnold T Blumberg, writing for \"Now Playing\" magazine, observes that the character \"gets to be a companion for a little while\" and \"does a damn fine job of it too.\" Burk and Smith? list the simultaneous reunion and first meeting between Jackie and Pete in \"Doomsday\" as one of the episode's poignant moments, stating that the scene \"sings joyously\" through the performances of Coduri and Dingwall. Commenting on Jackie's involvement in \"Journey's End\" Travis Fickett observed that having the Doctor tell her to stay away from the TARDIS console was \"a fun moment\", although he felt that having so many characters present in the episode was \"a bit awkward.\" Dave Golder of \"SFX\" stated that there being \"not enough Jacqui \" was one of the episode's low points.\n\nReviewers also compared the character of Donna Noble's mother, Sylvia (Jacqueline King), who featured semi-regularly during the fourth series, against Jackie. Airlock Alpha's Alan Stanley Blair remarked upon the premiere of \"Partners in Crime\" that Sylvia \"doesn't have the same appeal\" as Jackie. Charlie Jane Anders of io9 comments that until the episode \"Turn Left\" Sylvia seemed like \"a weak copy of Jackie Tyler\" who lacked Jackie's \"saucy warmth.\" Of her role in the series, Jon Wise of \"People\" magazine opined that Coduri \"adds a certain sexiness\" to the role of Rose's mum. In an interview with Coduri, \"Gay Times\" magazine stated that she is \"beloved\" by members of the gay community because of her role as Jackie, something the actress felt was a \"privilege\". The exposure given to Coduri whilst playing the role led to her being recognised frequently on the street. The actress commented that she also received \"heaps of fan mail, mostly from men\" which verged more on the \"respectful, romantic side than the drop-your-drawers side\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1798259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798259", "title": "Triphenylphosphine", "text": "Triphenylphosphine\n\nTriphenylphosphine (IUPAC name: triphenylphosphane) is a common organophosphorus compound with the formula P(CH) - often abbreviated to PPh or PhP. It is widely used in the synthesis of organic and organometallic compounds. PPh exists as relatively air stable, colorless crystals at room temperature. It dissolves in non-polar organic solvents such as benzene and diethyl ether.\n\nTriphenylphosphine can be prepared in the laboratory by treatment of phosphorus trichloride with phenylmagnesium bromide or phenyllithium. The industrial synthesis involves the reaction between phosphorus trichloride, chlorobenzene, and sodium.:\n\nTriphenylphosphine crystallizes in triclinic and monoclinic modification In both cases, the molecule adopts a pyramidal structure with propeller-like arrangement of the three phenyl groups.\n\nTriphenylphosphine undergoes slow oxidation by air to give triphenylphosphine oxide, PhPO:\nThis impurity can be removed by recrystallisation of PPh from either hot ethanol or hot isopropanol. This method capitalizes on the fact that OPPh is more polar and hence more soluble in polar solvents than PPh.\n\nTriphenylphosphine abstracts sulfur from polysulfide compounds, episulfides, and elemental sulfur. Simple organosulfur compounds such as thiols and thioethers are unreactive, however. The phosphorus-containing product is triphenylphosphine sulfide, PhPS. This reaction can be employed to assay the \"labile\" S content of a sample, say vulcanized rubber. Triphenylphosphine selenide, PhPSe, may be easily prepared via treatment of PPh with red (alpha-monoclinic) Se. Salts of selenocyanate, SeCN, are used as the Se source. PPh can also form an adduct with Te, although this adduct primarily exists as (PhP)Te rather than PPhTe.\n\nAryl azides react with PPh to give phosphanimines, analogues of OPPh, via the Staudinger reaction. Illustrative is the preparation of triphenylphosphine phenylimide:\nThe phosphanimine can be hydrolyzed to the amine. Typically the intermediate phosphanimine is not isolated.\n\nCl adds to PPh to give triphenylphosphine dichloride ([PPhCl]Cl), which exists as the moisture-sensitive phosphonium halide, This reagent is used to convert alcohols to alkyl chlorides in organic synthesis.\n\nPPh is a weak base, but does form stable salts with strong acids such as HBr. The product contains the phosphonium cation [HPPh].\n\nPPh is pyramidal with a chiral propeller-like arrangement of the three phenyl rings. The rigidity of PPh contributes to the ease with which its derivatives crystallize.\n\nPPh is widely used in organic synthesis. The properties that guide its usage are its nucleophilicity and its reducing character. The nucleophilicity of PPh is indicated by its reactivity toward electrophilic alkenes, such as Michael-acceptors, and alkyl halides. It is also used in the synthesis of biaryl compounds, such as the Suzuki reaction.\n\nPPh combines with alkyl halides to give phosphonium salts. The facility of the quaternization reaction follows the usual pattern whereby alkyl iodides and benzylic and allylic halides are particularly efficient reactants:\nThese salts, which are readily isolated as crystalline solids, react with strong bases to form ylides:\nSuch ylides are key reagents in the Wittig reactions, used to convert aldehydes and ketones into alkenes. Nickel salts are required to react PPh with PhBr to give [PPh]Br. The tetraphenylphosphonium cation is widely used to prepare crystallizable lipophilic salts.\n\nIn this reaction, a mixture of PPh and diisopropyl azodicarboxylate (\"DIAD\", or its diethyl analogue, DEAD) converts an alcohol and a carboxylic acid to an ester. The DIAD is reduced as it serves as the hydrogen acceptor, and the PPh is oxidized to OPPh.\n\nIn this reaction, PPh and CX (X = Cl, Br) are used to convert alcohols to alkyl halides, forming OPPh as a byproduct.\nThis reaction commences with nucleophilic attack of PPh on CBr, an extension of the quaternization reaction listed above.\n\nThe easy oxygenation of PPh is exploited in its use to deoxygenate organic peroxides, which generally occurs with retention of configuration:\n\nIt is also used for the decomposition of organic ozonides to ketones and aldehydes, although dimethyl sulfide is more popular for the reaction as the side product, dimethyl sulfoxide is more readily separated from the reaction mixture than triphenylphosphine oxide. Aromatic \"N\"-oxides are reduced to the corresponding amine in high yield at room temperature with irradiation:\n\nSulfonation of PPh gives tris(3-sulfophenyl)phosphine, P(CH-3-SO) (TPPTS), usually isolated as the trisodium salt. In contrast to PPh, TPPTS is water-soluble, as are its metal derivatives. Rhodium complexes of TPPTS are used in certain industrial hydroformylation reactions.\nLithium in THF as well as Na or K react with PPh to give PhPM (M = Li, Na, K). These salts are versatile precursors to tertiary phosphines. For example, 1,2-dibromoethane and PhPM react to give PhPCHCHPPh. Weak acids such ammonium chloride, convert PhPM (M = Li, Na, K) into diphenylphosphine:\n\nTriphenylphosphine binds well to most transition metals, especially those in the middle and late transition metals of groups 7–10. In terms of steric bulk, PPh has a Tolman cone angle of 145°, which is intermediate between those of P(CH) (170°) and P(CH) (115°). In an early application in homogeneous catalysis, NiBr(PPh) was used by Walter Reppe for the synthesis of acrylate esters from alkynes, carbon monoxide, and alcohols. Wilkinson further popularized the use of PPh, in part through the then revolutionary hydroformylation catalyst RhH(PPh)(CO).\n\nIn contrast to triphenylphosphine triphenylamine shows little tendency to bind to metals. The difference between the coordinating power of PPh and NPh reflects the greater steric crowding around the nitrogen atom, which is smaller and favors a more tetrahedral geometry. More similar to PPh in terms of its coordinating properties is triphenylarsine, AsPh.\n\nAn important technique for the characterization of metal-PPh compounds is P NMR spectroscopy. Substantial shifts occur upon complexation andP-P spin-spin coupling can provide insight into the structure of complexes containing multiple phosphine ligands.\n\nIllustrative PPh complexes:\n\nPolymeric analogues of PPh are known whereby polystyrene is modified with PPh groups at the para position. Such polymers can be employed in many of the applications used for PPh with the advantage that the polymer, being insoluble, can be separated from products by simple filtration of reaction slurries. Such polymers are prepared via treatment of 4-lithiophenyl-substituted polystyrene with chlorodiphenylphosphine (PPhCl).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798261", "title": "Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of the Philippines)", "text": "Eagle Scout (Boy Scouts of the Philippines)\n\nEagle Scout is the highest rank awarded to a Senior Scout in the Boy Scouts of the Philippines (BSP). To be awarded the rank, a Scout must lead in planning and doing two community service projects and earn a total of 23 merit badges consisting of 17 required merit badges and 2 specialist ratings (a specialist rating involves 3 related merit badges and a community service project). After achieving the rank of Eagle, a Scout may earn an Anahaw award for earning 2 additional specialist ratings.\n\nThe term \"Eagle Scout\", \"Eagle\", or \"Agila\" is used to refer to a person who was given the award. The award's name was derived from the Eagle Scout awarded by the Boy Scouts of America (BSA). From 1923 to 1936 (when the Philippines was a protectorate of the United States), the BSA administered the Boy Scouts program in the Philippines through the Philippine Council, BSA. According to the BSP's Diamond Jubilee Yearbook from 1936 to September 1996 there are 121,369 Scouts awarded the highest rank by the Boy Scouts of the Philippines.\n\nThe BSP's highest rank went through a number of name and requirement changes through the years after the Philippines gained its independence from the United States of America.\n\nAll awardees are eligible for membership into the Eagle Scouts Organization of the Philippines, the fellowship and service association of all Eagle Scouts from the BSP and from the BSA having Filipino lineage and/or nationality.\n\nThe Anahaw Award is a metal Anahaw leaf that is pinned on the ribbon of the Eagle Scout Medal. The award is similar to the Boy Scouts of America's use of Eagle Palms for their Eagle Scout Award. The name derives from Anahaw, a Filipino common name of palm trees in the genus \"Livistona\".\n\nAfter a Scout has earned the Eagle Scout Rank and before reaching the age of 17 years, he can go on to pursue the Anahaw Award. In addition to the 23 Merit Badges for the Eagle Scout Rank, the Anahaw Award may be granted as follows:\n\nThe Bronze Anahaw Award shall be given only after at least three-(3) months of active Scouting as an Eagle Scout. Subsequent Anahaw Awards may be made at intervals not less the four-(4) months of tenure following the conferment of an Anahaw Award of lower grade.\n\nThe Eagle Scout Association of the Philippines (ESAP) is the national fellowship and service association of men who have received the rank of Eagle Scout from the Boy Scouts of the Philippines (BSP). The association also accepts into membership Eagle Scouts from the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) who are of Filipino lineage or nationality.\n\nThe association was founded in January 1998 during the BSP's 11th National Jamboree at Clark Field in the province of Pampanga. It replaced an earlier association named Citizen Awardees, Rizals, and Eagle Scouts Association (CARES).\n\nIt started its ESAP milestone in the 1st ESAP General Assembly held last May 23–25, 2008 at Columban College Hotel, Olongapo City with the theme: \"\"Eagle Quest and Beyond\"\". It was hosted by ESAP Olongapo Chapter headed by CSE Mario Esquillo, Chapter President. The Eagle Scout Gathering marks the start of the association where it held the ESAP Ritual officiated by ES Arnell Alambra, Vice President for International Affairs as Ritual Master and ES Chito L. Morante, National President and other ESAP Officers as Guardian of the Circle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798293", "title": "New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade", "text": "New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade\n\nThe New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade was a brigade of the New Zealand Army during the First World War. Raised in 1914 as part of the New Zealand Expeditionary Force, it was one of the first New Zealand units to sail for service overseas.\n\nThe brigade was formed from three regiments – the Auckland Mounted Rifles, the Canterbury Mounted Rifles, the Wellington Mounted Rifles – and smaller support units. Altogether the brigade had an establishment of 1,940 men and 2,032 horses and by the end of the war over 17,700 men had served in the brigade. However the entire brigade's dismounted rifle strength was the equivalent of only a battalion of infantry.\n\nBy the end of 1914, the brigade had arrived in Egypt and was assigned to the New Zealand and Australian Division. Its first active service was, in a dismounted role, during the Gallipoli Campaign, where they fought against the forces of the Ottoman Turkish Empire. Seven months later, after the evacuation from Gallipoli, the brigade returned to Egypt, and in 1916, became part of the ANZAC Mounted Division. The brigade was then used in defence of the Suez Canal. Then following an abortive Turkish attack in the Sinai Desert, it took part in clearing the invaders from Egypt. Then in the next two years, it forced the Turkish forces out of Palestine, collectively known as the Sinai and Palestine Campaign. Following its successful conclusion in 1918, the brigade played a small part in the Egyptian Revolution of 1919, before being disbanded in June 1919.\n\nOn 4 August 1914, the British Empire declared war on the German Empire. Two days later, to assist the war effort, New Zealand offered to send a New Zealand Expeditionary Force (NZEF) to fight alongside the British Army. That offer was accepted by the Imperial Cabinet and amongst the troops asked for was a mounted infantry brigade. Which became known as the New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade. Being mounted infantry the brigade was expected to ride to the site of the battle, then dismounted and fight on foot, just like normal infantry.\n\nThe brigade's first commanding officer was Colonel Andrew Russell. His command comprised a headquarters, three regiments, each with three squadrons, and support troops, formed from the New Zealand Territorial Force, The Territorial Force included a compulsory training system and the four New Zealand Military Districts were required to supply a mounted regiment for the NZEF. To meet that obligation the Territorial Force regiments, each provided a squadron, which kept their own regimental badges and traditions. All together the brigade has an establishment of 1,940 men and 2,032 horses. However the entire brigade only had a dismounted rifle strength the equivalent of an infantry battalion. Such was the nature of the fighting they were involved in, that by the end of the war over 17,700 men would serve in the brigade.\n\nInitially, in 1914, the brigade comprised a Brigade Headquarters, three mounted regiments, the Auckland Mounted Rifles, the Canterbury Mounted Rifles, the Wellington Mounted Rifles, and support units, from the New Zealand Engineers, a Field Ambulance and an Ammunition Subsection.\nNew Zealand did not supply an artillery battery for the brigade, as it was always intended artillery would be provided by the British Army. Another regiment, the Otago Mounted Rifles, raised as a divisional cavalry regiment, was assigned to the brigade during the Gallipoli Campaign. Then in the early stages of the Sinai Campaign the Australian 5th Light Horse Regiment, for a time, replaced the Wellington Mounted Rifles. In July 1916, the three regiments lost their machine-gun sections, which were amalgamated, to form the Brigade Machine-Gun Squadron.\n\nIn New Zealand, the brigade's reinforcements trained at Featherston Camp north east of Wellington where about 8,000 men were housed in nearly 300 buildings, including three billiard rooms, a post office, a cinema, sixteen dining halls, six cook-houses and stables for 500 horses. The training programme included eight weeks of dismounted drill, two weeks of shooting, eight weeks of mounted drill and lectures on sanitation, military law and discipline, animal management and stable duties. All mounted reinforcements had to pass confirmatory riding tests before being cleared to go overseas. Once trained the men were sent to Sydney or Melbourne in Australia, where they embarked on Australian troopships bound for Suez.\n\nA little over two months after the declaration of war, in October 1914, the brigade sailed from New Zealand. Arriving in the Suez Canal on 3 December 1914, they disembarked at Alexandria two days later. Then entrained for Cairo, and established a camp in the western suburb of Zeitoun. The brigade was now assigned to the New Zealand and Australian Division, with the New Zealand Infantry Brigade, and two Australian brigades' the 1st Light Horse Brigade and the 4th Brigade. On 18 December Egypt until then a Turkish province, came under the protection of the British Empire, and the Khedive was replaced by Prince Hussein Kamel Pasha, as the Sultan of Egypt. Three days after his coronation the brigade, in a display of strength, marched through Cairo.\n\nThe brigade used their time training, which consisted of day and night marches through the desert, combined with rifle and machine-gun practice. Culminating in\na four-day exercise, in February, when they marched around each day. In April the division's two infantry brigades were given orders to leave for a then unknown destination. Which was followed by the news of the Gallipoli landings. Then a week later the brigade was ordered to prepare to follow the rest of the division. However they would leave their horses behind serving in a dismounted role.\n\nThe brigade's transport ships arrived off Gallipoli on 12 May. The troops were kept on board until dark, then landed at Anzac Cove, camping that night on the beach. The next day they took over the northern, No.4 Section, of the beach head. Relieving the Royal Naval Brigade, on Walkers Ridge, brigade headquarters was set up on the highest point of the ridge, which became known as Russell's Top. The Wellington Mounted Rifles were on the right, looking down into Monash Valley, the Auckland Mounted Rifles in the centre and the Canterbury Mounted rifles on their left, on the slopes down to the sea, with responsibility for the No.1 and No.2 Posts. The No.2 Post was the beach-heads furthest north position, only from Chatham's Post the southernmost point. The outlying position of the two posts meant that movement between them and the main lines, could only be done safely at night.\n\nIn May intelligence reports indicated that Turkish reinforcements were grouping around the ANZAC positions, preparing an attack. Just after midnight 19 May, from No.2 Post to Chathams Post, the Turks opened fire with their small arms and artillery, and threw hand grenades at the ANZAC trenches. This continued until 03:30 when the Turkish infantry went over the top. In the brigade's sector their main effort fell on the Auckland Mounted Rifles. They held their fire until the Turks were around twenty yards (18 m) away. Then every weapon opened up, the machine-guns causing severe casualties amongst the attackers, who were forced to go to ground and take cover. At daybreak they Turks started to retire to their own lines leaving thousands of dead behind, 500 of them in front of the Auckland's positions. The Canterbury Mounted Rifles defending in No.2 Post, then observed a Turkish force opposite Walker's Ridge, forming for another attack. One of their machine-guns catching them with enfilade fire, broke up the gathering and forced them to withdraw. The rest of the day was quiet, apart from both sides artillery, then on 20 May another Turkish attack began, but faltered in the face of the brigade's machine-gun fire and withdrew back to their own lines. That afternoon white flags appeared above the Turkish trenches, and all the firing stopped. It appeared they wanted a truce to collect their wounded, but instead started collecting arms and ammunition and bringing forward reinforcements. The brigade issued a warning that they would commence firing in ten minutes, and they returned to their trenches. However an armistice was later agreed for the 24 May, between 07:30 and 16:30, so they could bury the dead. The Turkish troops, were also observed improving and constructing new trenches at the Nek, Baby 700, and further north on Battleship Hill and along the Sari Bair hills.\n\nOn 27 May the brigade realised the Turks were building a new position, at the base of the foothills, around east of the No.2 Post and when completed it would be a danger to the New Zealand post. So it would have to be captured and the task was given to the 1st Squadron, Canterbury Mounted Rifles. The squadron assembled at No.2 Post and after dark, at 22:00, 28 May assaulted the position, and by 23:30 had forced the Turkish defenders to withdraw.\n\nOnce secured the 6th Squadron Wellington Mounted Rifles, carrying spades and picks to improve the defences, moved in to occupy the position. Now known as No.3 Post, the squadron was ordered to \"hold the post till relieved\". Digging through the night, at daybreak they had to stop and take cover, when the post came under fire from the surrounding hills. Unable to do anything but take cover all day, that night at 21:30 the 6th Squadron was relieved by the 9th Squadron Wellington Mounted Rifles. The squadron attempted to improve their defences, but thirty minutes later around 1,000 Turks had surrounded, and attacked the post and by 23:30 had cut the telephone wires to the rest of the brigade. The dead ground to their front meant the defenders had to expose themselves on the trench parapet to open fire, which for a time kept the attackers at bay. But the strength of the Turkish attack, enabled them to advance to the edge of the New Zealander's trenches. At midnight the 2nd Squadron Wellington Mounted Rifles, were sent forward to reinforce the position. But were unable to break through the Turkish lines and had to establish their own defensive position on the slopes between No.2 and No.3 Posts. At 03:00 the 9th Squadron, opened fire on, and thwarted a Turkish assault building in the south of the post. Then thirty minutes later the Turks again attacked No.3 Post, with hand grenades and their small arms. However the 2nd Squadron could now assist with covering fire, from their position. At dawn one of the 2nd Squadron's troops, counter-attacked and cleared the Turks out of the trenches to the left of No.2 Post. At 06:30, using signal flags 9th Squadron re-established communications with brigade headquarters. Throughout the day both squadrons held their positions, but ammunition and supplies were running low. So the 6th Squadron Wellington Mounted Rifles was sent forward to join the 2nd Squadron, but in the face of the Turkish firepower, they could not advance any further. The Turkish, now estimated to number around 3,000 men, continued attacking all day to capture No.3 Post. At 19:10 the 9th Squadron reported they had lost the northern side of the post, which had been captured by the Turks. During the same time the 6th Squadron had managed to advance to within of the post. However, as it got dark the Turkish attacks petered out and at 22:30 the 10th Squadron and half of the 8th Squadron Canterbury Mounted Rifles managed to break through to No.3 Post and relieved the defenders. The Canterbury Mounted Rifles now occupied the post and fought off several Turkish attacks. But events had convinced the high command that it was impossible to defend No.3 Post and it was abandoned the same night. The brigade's casualties, were forty-two dead and 109 wounded. On 28 May the Otago Mounted Rifles, which had been attached to the brigade, took over from the Canterbury Mounted Rifles in the front line.\nThe objective of the British August offensive was to seize Chunuk Bair, a high point in the Sari Bair mountain range. The New Zealand and Australian Division would provide the attacking force. The initial part of the attack was to clear the Turks from the foothills, which was given to the New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade, reinforced by a Māori Pioneer Battalion.\n\nThe attack began over the night of 5/6 August the Auckland Mounted Rifles successfully captured the Old No.3 Post. To their left the Canterbury and Otago Mounted rifles without firing a shot, only using their bayonets, cleared the Chailak Dere valley, then advanced to Aghyl Dere in the north. Capturing Taylor's Hollow, Walden's Point, and finally Beauchop Hill. To the right the Wellington Mounted Rifles and the Māoris captured Destroyer Ridge, and then scaled the north-east face of Table Top and at 22:55 attacked the Turks from the rear capturing the position.\n\nThe next day the Auckland and Canterbury Mounted Rifles, the New Zealand Infantry Brigade and two British battalions, were combined as No.1 Column commanded by Brigadier-General Francis Earl Johnston. The Column were to hold the ground already occupied and extend their lines to the south and east. When they reported to Johnstone at \"Chailak Dere\", where they ordered to hold the position \"to the last man\". All during the following day, the attacking Turks sky-lining themselves moving over the hill, becoming easy targets for the defenders, and were engaged with enfilade fire.\n\nHolding out until they were relived on 9 August, the brigade, which was understrength to start with, had virtually ceased to exist as a fighting unit. The Auckland Mounted Rifles only had sixty-six men from a strength of 310 all ranks that had started the battle. The Canterbury Mounted Rifles lost 105 men around forty per cent of their strength. The Wellington Mounted Rifles, had sixty-seven men left from 173 all ranks.\n\nTwo weeks later the Canterbury and Otago Mounted Rifles were selected to take part in the next battle to capture Hill 60. At 15:30 21 August the battle began, the Canterbury Mounted Rifles charging straight at the hill suffered sixty per cent casualties, among them their commanding officer. They did however succeed in capturing the Turkish trench, within fifteen minutes of going over the top. But on either side of them the rest of the attack had failed, leaving the two regiments isolated from the rest of the force. By themselves the two regiments did not have the manpower to continue the assault, so they were ordered to dig in and hold the position. Which they did until 23 August when they were relieved by the Auckland and Wellington Mounted Rifles.\n\nOn 27 August a second attempt to capture Hill 60 began. At 17:00 the Auckland and Canterbury Mounted Rifles captured the Turkish front line. The Wellington and Otago Mounted Rifles following up, passed beyond them and captured the Turkish reserve line. On the other flanks the supporting assaults had failed, leaving the Wellington and Otago Mounted Rifles isolated on a narrow front. So the brigade consolidated the ground already captured and moved forward their machine-guns, to support the defence, the forward line of which only consisted of forty men. However, all four regiments suffered heavy casualties and had to fight off several counter-attacks. Until 29 August when they were relieved and moved to the rear.\n\nIn September the brigade, now only twenty officers and 229 other ranks, was relieved by the Australians and left the peninsula for the rest camp on the island of Lemnos, arriving at Moudros on 14 September. While recuperating the survivors were joined by, thirty officers and 1,060 other ranks, replacements for their casualties.\n\nOn 10 November the brigade returned to Gallipoli, Moving back into the front line, they were not involved in any more assaults. Then on 12 December orders for the evacuation were issued. The first men to leave were anyone with the slightest illness. Then one regiment or battalion from each brigade, the Auckland Mounted Rifles, were chosen, from the brigade. Which meant that the remainder had to extend their lines covering for them. The last men were due to leave over the night of 19/20 December. Each regiment was divided into three groups, the first group leaving at the 17:30 19 December, followed by the second smaller group at 21:35. The last group of men having to cover for the whole brigade, kept up a steady rate of fire and moved their machine-guns around the position to support the deception that all defences were fully manned. The last group was also divided into three, the first of which left at 01:45 20 December. Followed by the next group who waited ten minutes then followed them and the last small group of men left at 02:05. Once on the evacuation beach, they boarded their transport ships they sailed back to Lemnos. Then on 22 December returned to Egypt, arriving at Alexandria on 26 December, and eventually arrived back at their old camp at Zeitoun. During the campaign 4,000 men served with the brigade and almost fifty per cent of them, 727 dead and 1,239 wounded, became casualties.\n\nIn January 1916, the brigade left Zeitoun and headed east camping that night beside the Great Bitter Lake on the Suez Canal. While here they conducted desert training and each squadron, in turn, was sent across the canal on reconnaissance patrols into the Sinai Desert. In February they carried out a dual role of manning trenches along the canal, dismounted, and doing long range mounted patrols into the Sinai. Then in March, the brigade was assigned to the newly formed ANZAC Mounted Division, alongside the Australian 1st, 2nd and 3rd Light Horse Brigades.\n\nWithout any notice at 20:30 23 April, the brigade was ordered to Kantara away on the Suez Canal. The reason was not then known, but it later transpired a Turkish force in the Sinai Desert had attacked British yeomanry positions at Katia and Oghratina. They reached Kantara at 07:00 and an hour later moved into the desert camping at Hill 70 for the night and sent out reconnaissance patrols into the desert and manned observation posts. Patrol activity was kept up, most of the time at troop strength, but some involved the complete brigade. On 15 July 1916, the three mounted regiments lost their machine-gun sections, which were transferred to the newly formed brigade Machine-Gun Squadron. However, a shortage of equipment meant that they only had six of the newer Vickers machine guns and six older Maxim guns. Four days later, reconnaissance aircraft spotted a large Turkish force moving west across the desert.\n\nThe New Zealand Mounted Rifles were the probable main participants in the Surafand Massacre of Palestinian Arab civilians on 10 December 1918 in revenge for the murder of a New Zealand soldier and other previous incidents; some Australian and possibly British troops were also present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798307", "title": "GenOn Energy Holdings", "text": "GenOn Energy Holdings\n\nGenOn Energy Holdings, formerly Mirant Corporation, was a subsidiary of GenOn Energy, and is now a part of NRG Energy.\n\nThe company was spun off from its former parent, Southern Company, on April 2, 2001. The company was merged into GenOn Energy on 3 December 2010. The company then became part of NRG Energy in December 2012.\n\nMirant operated 13 plants in the states of California, Georgia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, and Virginia and has the capacity to generate approximately 10,300 MW of electricity.\n\nMirant began its corporate existence in 1981 as Southern Electric International (SEI), a small consulting division of Southern Company that provided engineering and technical services to industrial companies, domestic and international utilities. With the Energy Policy Act of 1992 deregulation arrived in the US electric power sector, and SEI ventured into global markets with the acquisition of a 50% stake in Freeport Power, a Bahamian utility. In the years to come, other acquisitions followed, notably the acquisition of a British distribution utility - South Western Electricity Board later renamed SWEB (now known as Western Power Distribution); a controlling interest in Hong Kong based Consolidated Electric Power of Asia (CEPA), a stake in a German utility BEWAG, controlling interest in Empresa Electrica del Norte Grande, S. A. (EDELNOR) in Chile, and a hydroelectric generating facility in Argentina known as Hydroelectrica Alicura; giving it worldwide business interests in the Caribbean, Asian, South American and European energy markets. On the domestic front the company forged a joint venture in 1999 with Houston-based Vastar Energy to create Southern Company Energy Marketing, an electricity and gas trading company. That same year the company also acquired power generation facilities in New England (Canal station, Martha's Vineyard Diesels, Kendall Station), New York (Lovett and Bowline stations), California (Pittsburg, Potrero and Contra Costa stations). That same year SEI was renamed Southern Energy, in keeping with the broader theme of the products and markets that it pursued. Soon afterwards, its biggest domestic acquisition till date came in December 2000 with the purchase of the Morgantown, Chalk Point, Dickerson and Potomac River power generating assets from Potomac Electric Power Company (PEPCO). After an initial public offering of Southern Energy common stock in the fall of 2000, parent Southern Company completely spun off its interests in Southern Energy in April 2001 and a new publicly listed entity named Mirant Corporation began trading on the New York Stock exchange with the ticker symbol MIR. Between 2000 and 2003, the company continued its expansion in the U.S. markets with the acquisition or greenfield development of various gas-fired power plants in markets like Nevada, Texas, Wisconsin, Indiana, Arkansas, Louisiana, Georgia and Florida.\n\nFollowing the disruption to the independent power industry precipitated by the bankruptcy of Enron, on July 14, 2003, after months of attempting to restructure its debt, the company sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\nThe Mirant bankruptcy proceedings were unusual in that the court agreed to the appointment of a committee of equity holders. The usual reasoning is that if there is any positive equity in a company, the company should not be in Chapter 11—and if there isn't, there is no reason for a committee of people without such an interest. But the judge did find it sufficiently likely in Mirant that there would be equity interest after re-organization to create such a committee.\nIn January 2006, Mirant emerged from bankruptcy and the company was relisted to the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MIR. The equity holders from the pre-bankruptcy Mirant did retain a portion of the equity of the re-organized entity.\n\nPrior to the bankruptcy filing, Mirant had attempted to expand the Potrero plant, but neighborhood and community activists fought the proposal for five years and on March 2, 2006, the California Public Utilities Commission announced its rejection of Mirant's expansion plans. The plant was scheduled to be shut down sometime in 2007 in preparation for constructing a more modern replacement, but subsequently plans were scaled back and now call for the existing plant to simply be upgraded.\n\nIn 2007, Mirant sold some gas-fired generating plants and its overseas power plants in the Philippines and in the Caribbean.\n\nOn Sunday, April 11, 2010 Mirant announced it was merging with RRI Energy, a company formerly known as Reliant Energy. The merger, which was completed on December 3, 2010, resulted in a company known as GenOn Energy.\n\n\nResearchers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst identified Mirant as the 63rd-largest corporate producer of Air pollution in the United States, based on 2002 data, with roughly 19 million pounds of toxic chemicals released annually into the air. Major pollutants indicated by the study include sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, and chromium compounds.\n\nOn November 10, 2004, a group of Chesapeake Climate Action Network activists, students, farmers, and religious officials held a protest against the coal-fired Dickerson Power Plant in Montgomery County, Maryland. During the protest, six people were arrested for trespassing on private property. The protestors called on the plant's owner, the Mirant Corporation, to stop opposing state and federal legislation against power plant pollution.\n\nMirant, which owns and operates two power plants in the Hudson Valley Region of New York State, failed to pay its property taxes in a dispute with tax authorities, claiming over-assessments by the Towns of Stony Point and Haverstraw New York, as well as the North Rockland School District. Under the terms of bankruptcy, Mirant held payment in excess of $180 million due this last several years while a settlement could be reached. This case, which has caused local residents to themselves file bankruptcy, cost the average taxpayer over $2000 in increased property taxes. \n\nThe higher than average assessments paid to the local municipalities were part of a strategy used by the Consolidated Edison and Orange and Rockland Utilities, whose plants Mirant assumed after deregulation, to site their plants in the Hudson River Valley Area.\n\nFollowing proceedings in state court, a settlement was reached between Mirant and the towns in December 2006, with taxes based on lower assessed values of the two power plants.\n\nLocal 369 of the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA) recently succeeded in enforcing an arbitration award in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The court determined that Mirant did not have just cause to discharge two workers for viewing pornographic materials on a computer. Federal Judge Douglas P. Woodlock denied Mirant’s motion to vacate the award, and the union’s motion for judgment was granted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798310", "title": "Terry Kennedy (skateboarder)", "text": "Terry Kennedy (skateboarder)\n\nTerry Kennedy (born May 27, 1985), commonly as \"TK\", is an American professional skateboarder. He rides his skateboard with a regular footed stance. He is the Co-Founder of Fly Society, a clothing and music brand. His sponsors are Muta Skateboards, Active Ride Shop, Venture, Shake Junt, Glock, Rick Owens, Gold Wheels and FootPrint Insoles.\n\nKennedy appeared on Bam Margera's MTV television shows, \"Viva La Bam\", \"Bam's Unholy Union\" and Rob Dyrdek's MTV show \"Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory\". He had also made cameo appearance in Snoop Dogg's chart topping song Drop It Like It's Hot, as well as in the video for Mistah Fab's song Ghost Ride It. Kennedy has also been featured on ABC Family's show, \"Switched!\". He appears in the skateboarding video game \"Skate\" and its sequels \"Skate 2\", \"3\" and \"Skate It\". Kennedy also appeared on the documentary Beef IV to discuss a beef he had with Lupe Fiasco.\n\nIce Cream VOL.1, Baker 2G, Summer Tour 2001, Baker 3, Baker Has a Deathwish, Shake Junt's Chicken Bone Nowison, Street Dreams and Bake and Destroy.\n\nIn June 2005, Terry was shot twice while leaving a party in Long Beach. Once in the forearm and once in the jaw. He made a full recovery.\n"}
{"id": "1798318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798318", "title": "Washington Park station (TriMet)", "text": "Washington Park station (TriMet)\n\nWashington Park is a light rail station in Portland, Oregon, United States, that is operated by TriMet as part of its MAX Light Rail system. Situated between Sunset Transit Center and , the station is the 17th and 3rd eastbound stop on the Blue Line and the Red Line, respectively. Its two tracks and island platform are a part of the Robertson Tunnel beneath Portland's West Hills. The station's head house and surface-level plaza are located in the middle of a parking lot surrounded by the Hoyt Arboretum, Oregon Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Oregon Zoo, Portland Children's Museum, and World Forestry Center. Washington Park is the only completely underground station in the MAX system; at below ground, it is the deepest transit station in North America and one of the deepest in the world.\n\nThe station opened in September 1998 as part of the Westside MAX extension to downtown Hillsboro. Connections include TriMet bus route 63–Washington Park/Arlington Heights and a free seasonal shuttle. Various hiking trails, some a part of Portland's 40-Mile Loop, connect the station to other parts of Washington Park, including the International Rose Test Garden and the Portland Japanese Garden.\n\nThe station was designed by the Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Partnership architecture firm and built by Hoffman Construction Company, with engineering by Parsons Brinckerhoff. It opened in 1998 along with the rest of the westside MAX Line. \"Building Design & Construction\" named the station as its top public works project in 1999 in its Building Team Project of the Year competition.\n\nIn 2018, TriMet completed a $2.1 million renovation of the station's platform level. The agency partnered with ZGF for the renovation, which included mounting energy-efficient LED lighting and installing patterned tiles along the platform-side and elevator lobby walls. Artists from Mayer/Reed painted large-scale murals over the walls across the tracks from the platform.\n\nThe surface portion includes a public plaza named in honor of Les AuCoin, a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives who supported the project. The entrance to the zoo is located just across a parking-lot road from the station plaza, having been moved north from its previous location the weekend after the station opened. Two high-speed elevators are located at either end of the underground station; visitors to the Oregon Zoo are directed to the east elevators while people going to the World Forestry Center are pointed to the west.\n\nThe Robertson Tunnel consists of two single-track tubes, one for each direction of travel. The station platform is between the rails, accessed from the left side of trains. A geological timeline—created from a drilling core sample—runs along the platform walls. The eastbound platform is marked by yellow roof girders, symbolizing the sunrise; the westbound platform has orange roof girders, symbolizing the sunset. The platforms were nicknamed Sunrise and Sunset, respectively, by TriMet.\n\nTrains entering the tunnel more than a mile away can be heard from the platforms. They move at up to and push a stream of constant-temperature air into the station. This, coupled with the surrounding rock, keeps the platform at a natural average temperature of year round.\n\nA memorial to the only worker killed during the construction of the Robertson Tunnel is located on the wall next to the tunnel portal at the east end of the \"Sunset\" (westbound) platform.\n\nThe elevators stop at only two levels, surface and platform level, with no intermediate stops. As a part of the station's geological theme, the signs inside the elevators refer to these two levels not by conventional floor numbers but by \"the present\" and \"16 million years ago\"—for the surface level and platform level, respectively. During ascent and descent, a moving indicator display inside each elevator shows the current position expressed as elevation above sea level in feet. The elevators allow selecting two floors, \"S\" and \"T\", for \"surface\" and \"tunnel\" (or possibly \"street\" and \"track\"). The 26-story (28 for the west elevators) equivalent ride takes about 25 seconds. Due to the hillside surface slope, the west elevators are taller than the east elevators.\n\nThis underground MAX station is served by the following bus lines:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798324", "title": "WPY", "text": "WPY\n\nWPY may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1798326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798326", "title": "Frank Warren (American football)", "text": "Frank Warren (American football)\n\nFrank William Warren (September 14, 1959 – December 12, 2002) was a professional American football player for the New Orleans Saints of the National Football League. The defensive lineman was a third-round draft pick in the 1981 NFL Draft by the Saints out of Auburn University. He went on to play 189 games during his 14-year career with New Orleans, recording 52½ sacks. His impressive career earned him an induction into the New Orleans Saints Hall of Fame. He was a member of Omega Psi Phi fraternity.\n\nWarren died at the age of 43 after suffering a heart attack at his home in Birmingham, Alabama. By tragic coincidence, he had only five days earlier been interviewed for the HBO television program \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\" to discuss the dangers of rising obesity among NFL linemen, many of whom now top . Warren stated that his weight scared him and left him wondering every night if he'd wake up to see the next morning.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798336", "title": "The Tale of Cross-eyed Lefty from Tula and the Steel Flea", "text": "The Tale of Cross-eyed Lefty from Tula and the Steel Flea\n\n\"The Tale of Cross-eyed Lefty from Tula and the Steel Flea\" (, Skaz o Tulskom kosom Levshe i o stalnoy Blokhe), \"The Tale of the Crosseyed Lefthander from Tula and the Steel Flea\" or simply \"Levsha\" (, \"left-handed\"), sometimes called \"The Lefthander\", \"Lefty\", \"The Steel Flea\" or \"The Left-handed Craftsman\" is a well-known 1881 skaz (story) by Nikolai Leskov. Styled as a folk tale, it tells a story of a left-handed arms craftsman from Tula (traditionally a center of the Russian armaments industry) who outperformed his English colleagues by providing a clockwork steel flea they'd made with horseshoes and inscriptions on them.\n\nTsar Alexander I of Russia, while visiting England with his servant the Cossack Platov, is shown a variety of modern inventions. Platov keeps insisting that things in Russia are much better (embarrassing a guide at one point when he finds something that appears well made that turns out to be a Russian gun), until they are shown a small mechanical flea. After his ascension the next tsar, Nicolas I, orders Platov (after he tries to hide the flea) to find someone to outperform the English who had created the clockwork steel flea (as small as a crumb, and the key to wind it up can only be seen through a microscope). Platov travels to Tula to find someone to better the English invention. Three gunsmiths agree to do the work and barricade themselves in a workshop. Villagers try to get them to come out in various ways (for example by yelling \"fire\"), but no one can get them to come out. When Platov arrives to check on their progress, he has some Cossacks try to open the workshop. They succeed in getting the roof to come off, but the crowd is disgusted when the trapped smell of body odor and metal work comes out of the workshop. The gunsmiths hand Platov the same flea he gave them and he curses them, believing that they have done absolutely nothing. He ends up dragging Lefty with him in order to have someone to answer for the failure.\n\nThe flea is given to the czar, to whom Lefty explains that he needs to look closer and closer at the flea to see what they have achieved. He winds it up and finds that it doesn't move. He discovers that, without any microscopes (\"We are poor people\"), Lefty and his accomplices managed to put appropriately sized horseshoes (with the craftsmen's engraved signatures) on the flea (Lefty made the nails, which cannot be seen since they are so small), which amazes the Tsar and the English (even though the flea now cannot dance as it used to). Lefty then gets an invitation and travels to England to study the English way of life and technical accomplishments. The English hosts try to talk him into staying in England, but he feels homesick and returns to Russia at the earliest opportunity. On the way back, he engages in a drinking duel with an English sailor, arriving in Saint Petersburg. The sailor is treated well, but the authorities finding no identification on Lefty and believing him to be a common drunkard, send him off to die in a hospital for unknowns.\n\nThe sailor, after sobering up, decides to find his new friend, and with the aid of Platov they locate him. While dying (his head is smashed from being thrown onto the pavement), he tells them to tell the Emperor to stop having his soldiers clean their muskets with crushed brick (after he sees a dirty gun in England and realizes it fires so well because they keep it oily). The message never arrives, however, because the man who had to inform the Emperor never does. Leskov comments that the Crimean War might have turned out differently if the message had been delivered. The story ends with Leskov commenting on the replacement of good, hard-earned labor and creativity with machines.\n\nThis story is deeply embedded into Russian consciousness as an archetype of relationships between Russia and the West. The language of the story is unique; many of its folk-flavored neologisms and colloquialisms (many of them being replacements of borrowed non-Slavic words, very funny and natural, though mostly invented by Leskov) have become common sayings and proverbs. Both Slavophiles and Westernizers used the story in support of their views; indeed the story of Levsha may signify amazing Russian ingenuity and craftsmanship, it also exposes the Russian society which neglects most talented Russian people. \n\nIn 1952, a ballet adaption was developed by Boris Alexandrovich Alexandrov and P. F. Abolimov. In order to maximize the ballet's patriotic message, the story was changed so that the flea keeps its leap and Lefty survives to return home to a love interest. The libretto was thought clumsy by the Central Committee of the All-Union Communist Party, however, and the ballet was only ever staged twice, in 1954 and 1976.\n\nIn 1964, Soviet director Ivan Ivanov-Vano made an animated 42-minute-long film called \"Lefty\" (Левша) that was based on the story.\n\nA live-action film \"The Left-Hander\" was made in 1986. This version is played several times a day at the Museum of Jurassic Technology.\n\nThe book describes a microscope which can magnify up to five million times, similar to actual microscopes that are now being used in nanotechnology. For this reason it is featured in a \"Nature Physics\" article from 2007.\n\nIn the Russian language, the hero's nickname, Levsha (Lefty), has become a reference to an exceptionally skilled common-folk craftsman, and the expression \"to shoe a flea\" has become an idiomatic phrase signifying a craftsman's feat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798339", "title": "Warren Towers", "text": "Warren Towers\n\nWarren Towers is one of the three Boston University dormitories traditionally intended for underclassmen, the others being The Towers and West Campus. The building is located at central campus, next to the College of Communication (COM) and across from the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS). Housing approximately 1800 students, it is the second-largest non-military dormitory in the country, behind Jester Center at The University of Texas at Austin. The closest MBTA stop is Boston University East on the Green Line \"B\" Branch, located directly in front of B and C Towers, in a center reservation on Commonwealth Avenue.\n\nOriginally, the building’s name was simply \"700\", in reference to its 700 Commonwealth Avenue address. Its three towers were simply called, from east to west (left to right in the above photo), A Tower, B Tower, and C Tower. The building was first occupied in 1966; residents lived in A and B Towers while construction of C Tower was completed (this fact gave birth to the student \"legend\" that C Tower was constructed of spare parts from A and B towers). The third tower was completed and occupied in 1967.\n\nIn 1976 the building was rechristened \"Warren Towers\" as a tribute to three generations of the Warren family at Boston University: William Fairfield Warren (the University's first president), William Marshall Warren (a Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences; son of William Fairfield Warren), and Shields Warren (a famous physician; son of William Marshall Warren and grandson of William Fairfield Warren). Additionally, each tower was renamed in honor of one of the men; A Tower is now \"Fairfield Tower\", B Tower is \"Marshall Tower\", and C Tower is \"Shields Tower\". Bronze plaques in the main lobby commemorate the three men. Although these are the formal names of the towers, it is rare to hear anyone refer to them in this way; the A/B/C convention is far more popular.\n\nThe facility opened before the introduction of coeducational housing at BU, and as such A and B Towers housed women, and C Tower men. This reflected the high female-to-male ratio, a statistic that BU is still known for today. Although the building is now coeducational, some floors remain exclusively female. When in use by the university's summer programs (Academy of Media Production, High School Honors, Summer Challenge, Upward Bound, Upward Bound Math Science, Visual Arts’ Summer Institute, Summer Theatre Institute, Program in Mathematics for Young Scientists), one tower is exclusively male, while a second is exclusively female.\n\nWarren Towers, 18 stories in height, is the largest dormitory on the Boston University campus. Its three towers sit atop a four-story base structure. The first three floors (and a basement) are a university parking facility; the fourth floor contains the dorm's lobby, dining hall, and other amenities including study lounges and laundry rooms.\n\nEach of the tower's 14 residential floors house approximately 40 residents, including the Resident Assistant (RA). Most floors are divided into 18 doubles, four singles (including one for the RA), and a quad, though there are exceptions to this. For example, some floors in C Tower are home to faculty-in-residence, for whom small apartments have been created from the existing floor plan. Almost all floors have two shared bathrooms (one for each sex), though some single sex floors have a single bathroom.\n\nIn addition, all floors have a common room, except floors 5A and 5B, where a small laundry room is provided, and floor 17 of tower B, which is a boiler room for the facility. Like other campus housing facilities throughout campus, some floors are designated for certain schools. For example, the 11th and 14th floors of C Tower house only communication students.\n\nOriginally the building presented one long blank wall along the 700 block of Commonwealth Avenue, with the exception of the plate-glass entryway leading to the escalator banks. One of the initiatives undertaken early in the tenure of President John Silber was to carve retail space out of the building at street level, to generate income. Today retail establishments accessible at street-level include Bank of America and Citizens Bank ATMs, Subway, Starbucks, a City Convenience store, a FedEx Kinko's outlet, and Jamba Juice. A Taco Bell closed in April 2008.\n\nIn the 1980s, retail tenants included Rumple's (a full-service restaurant; this space later became a Taco Bell); Nikki's sandwich shop (immediately west of the escalator entrance for the dormitory); and a Store 24 convenience store, which later converted to a university-owned \"Campus Convenience\" store.\n\nDespite the ample parking space afforded by the multileveled garage in the lower section of the building, student parking is not permitted. The exception to this is for a short time around move-in and move-out periods when parking is free and the elevator banks are permitted to drop to the third floor of the garage, bypassing security and easing the moving experience.\n\nAt all other times parking is for faculty and staff by permit from the Office of Parking Services, or on a cash basis (the University leverages its close proximity to Fenway Park during baseball season to generate income in this way). Overnight parking is forbidden.\n\nNeil Stephenson's satirical first novel, \"The Big U\", was loosely based on his experiences in Warren Towers, and is set in a fictional dormitory similar to Warren — with eight towers instead of three, but connected at a commons above ground level.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798342", "title": "PSEG", "text": "PSEG\n\nPSEG may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1798343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798343", "title": "Xenon arc lamp", "text": "Xenon arc lamp\n\nA xenon arc lamp is a highly specialized type of gas discharge lamp, an electric light that produces light by passing electricity through ionized xenon gas at high pressure. It produces a bright white light that closely mimics natural sunlight, with applications in movie projectors in theaters, in searchlights, and for specialized uses in industry and research to simulate sunlight, often for product testing.\n\nXenon headlamps in automobiles are actually metal-halide lamps, where a xenon arc is only used during start-up to correct the color temperature.\n\nXenon arc lamps can be roughly divided into three categories: continuous-output xenon short-arc lamps, continuous-output xenon long-arc lamps, and xenon flash lamps (which are usually considered separately).\n\nEach consists of a fused quartz or other heat resistant glass arc tube, with a tungsten metal electrode at each end. The glass tube is first evacuated and then re-filled with xenon gas. For xenon flashtubes, a third \"trigger\" electrode usually surrounds the exterior of the arc tube. The lifetime of a xenon arc lamp varies according to its design and power consumption, with a major manufacturer quoting average lifetimes ranging from 500 hours (7kW) to 1,500 (1kW).\n\nInterest in the xenon discharge was first aroused by P. Schulz in 1944, following his discovery of its near-continuous spectrum and high colour rendering white light. Owing to wartime limitations on the availability of this noble gas, significant progress was not made until John Aldington of the British Siemens lamp company published his research in 1949. This triggered intensive efforts at the German Osram company to further develop the technology as a replacement for carbon arcs in cinema projection. The first successful public projection using xenon light was performed on 30 October 1950, when excerpts from a colour film (Das Schwarzwaldmädel) were shown during the 216th session of the German Cinematographic Society in Berlin. The technology was commercially introduced by German Osram in 1952. First produced in the 2 kW size (XBO2001), these lamps saw wide use in movie projection, where they replaced the older, more labor-intensive (to operate) carbon arc lamps.\n\nThe white continuous light generated by the xenon arc is spectrally similar to daylight, but the lamp has a rather low efficacy in terms of lumens of visible light output per watt of input power. Today, almost all movie projectors in theaters employ these lamps, with power ratings ranging from 900 watts up to 12 kW. Omnimax (Imax Dome) projection systems use single xenon lamps with ratings as high as 15 kW. As of 2016, laser illumination for digital theater projectors is starting to establish a market presence and has been predicted to supersede the xenon arc lamp for this application.\n\nAll modern xenon short-arc lamps use a fused quartz envelope with thoriated tungsten electrodes. Fused quartz is the only economically feasible material currently available that can withstand the high pressure (25 atmospheres for an IMAX bulb) and high temperature present in an operating lamp, while still being optically clear. The thorium dopant in the electrodes greatly enhances their electron emission characteristics. Because tungsten and quartz have different coefficients of thermal expansion, the tungsten electrodes are welded to strips of pure molybdenum metal or Invar alloy, which are then melted into the quartz to form the envelope seal.\n\nBecause of the very high power levels involved, large lamps are water-cooled. In those used in IMAX projectors, the electrode bodies are made from solid Invar and tipped with thoriated tungsten. An O-ring seals the tube, so that the naked electrodes do not contact the water. In low power applications the electrodes are too cold for efficient electron emission and are not cooled. In high power applications an additional water cooling circuit for each electrode is necessary. To reduce cost, the water circuits are often not separated and the water needs to be deionized to make it electrically non-conductive, which lets the quartz or some laser media dissolve into the water.\nTo achieve maximum efficiency, the xenon gas inside short-arc lamps is maintained at an extremely high pressure — up to 30 atmospheres (440 psi / 3040 kPa) — which poses safety concerns. If a lamp is dropped or ruptures while in service, pieces of the lamp envelope can be thrown at high speed. To mitigate this, large xenon short-arc lamps are normally shipped in protective shields, which will contain the envelope fragments should breakage occur. Normally, the shield is removed once the lamp is installed in the lamp housing. When the lamp reaches the end of its useful life, the protective shield is put back on the lamp, and the spent lamp is then removed from the equipment and discarded. As lamps age, the risk of failure increases, so bulbs being replaced are at the greatest risk of explosion. Lamp manufacturers recommend the use of eye protection when handling xenon short-arc lamps. Some lamps, especially those used in IMAX projectors, require the use of full-body protective clothing.\n\nXenon short-arc lamps come in two distinct varieties: pure xenon, which contains only xenon gas; and xenon-mercury, which contains xenon gas and a small amount of mercury metal.\n\nIn a pure xenon lamp, the majority of the light is generated within a tiny, pinpoint-sized cloud of plasma situated where the electron stream leaves the face of the cathode. The light generation volume is cone-shaped, and the luminous intensity falls off exponentially moving from cathode to anode. Electrons passing through the plasma cloud strike the anode, causing it to heat. As a result, the anode in a xenon short-arc lamp either has to be much larger than the cathode or be water-cooled, to dissipate the heat. The output of a pure xenon short-arc lamp offers fairly continuous spectral power distribution with a color temperature of about 6200K and color rendering index close to 100. However, even in a high pressure lamp there are some very strong emission lines in the near infrared, roughly in the region from 850–900 nm. This spectral region can contain about 10% of the total emitted light. Light intensity ranges from 20,000 to 500,000 cd/cm. An example is the \"XBO lamp\", which is an OSRAM trade name for a pure xenon short-arc lamp.\n\nFor some applications such as endoscopy and dental technology light guide systems are included.\n\nIn xenon-mercury short-arc lamps, the majority of the light is generated in a pinpoint-sized cloud of plasma situated at the tip of each electrode. The light generation volume is shaped like two intersecting cones, and the luminous intensity falls off exponentially moving towards the centre of the lamp. Xenon-mercury short-arc lamps have a bluish-white spectrum and extremely high UV output. These lamps are used primarily for UV curing applications, sterilizing objects, and generating ozone.\n\nThe very small size of the arc makes it possible to focus the light from the lamp with moderate precision. For this reason, xenon arc lamps of smaller sizes, down to 10 watts, are used in optics and in precision illumination for microscopes and other instruments, although in modern times they are being displaced by single mode laser diodes and white light supercontinuum lasers which can produce a truly diffraction-limited spot. Larger lamps are employed in searchlights where narrow beams of light are generated, or in film production lighting where daylight simulation is required.\n\nAll xenon short-arc lamps generate substantial ultraviolet radiation. Xenon has strong spectral lines in the UV bands, and these readily pass through the fused quartz lamp envelope. Unlike the borosilicate glass used in standard lamps, fused quartz readily passes UV radiation unless it is specially doped. The UV radiation released by a short-arc lamp can cause a secondary problem of ozone generation. The UV radiation strikes oxygen molecules in the air surrounding the lamp, causing them to ionize. Some of the ionized molecules then recombine as O, ozone. Equipment that uses short-arc lamps as the light source must contain UV radiation and prevent ozone build-up.\n\nMany lamps have a shortwave UV blocking coating on the envelope and are sold as \"ozone free\" lamps. These \"ozone free\" lamps are used commonly in indoor applications, where proper ventilation is not easily accessible. The company WACOM has also a long history of xenon lamp production. Some lamps have envelopes made out of ultra-pure synthetic fused silica (such as \"Suprasil\"), which roughly doubles the cost, but which allows them to emit useful light into the vacuum UV region. These lamps are normally operated in a pure nitrogen atmosphere.\n\nXenon short-arc lamps also are manufactured with a ceramic body and an integral reflector. They are available in many output power ratings with either UV-transmitting or blocking windows. The reflector options are parabolic (for collimated light) or elliptical (for focused light). They are used in a wide variety of applications, such as video projectors, fiber optic illuminators, endoscope and headlamp lighting, dental lighting, and search lights.\n\nXenon short-arc lamps have a negative temperature coefficient like other gas discharge lamps. They are operated at low-voltage, high-current, DC and started with a high voltage pulse of 20 to 50kV. As an example, a 450 W lamp operates normally at 18 V and 25 A once started. They are also inherently unstable, prone to phenomena such as plasma oscillation and thermal runaway. Because of these characteristics, xenon short-arc lamps require a proper power supply that operates without flickering in the flame, which could ultimately damage the electrodes..\n\nIn 1991 \"xenon headlamps\" were introduced for vehicles (BMW E32). These are actually metal-halide lamps; the xenon gas is used only to provide some light immediately upon lamp startup, as required for safety in an automotive headlamp application. Full intensity is reached 20 to 30 seconds later once the salts of sodium and scandium are vapourised by the heat of the xenon arc. The lamp envelope is small and the arc spans only a few millimetres. An outer hard glass tube blocks the escape of ultraviolet radiation that would tend to damage plastic headlamp components. The first xenon headlamps contained mercury; newer types do not.\n\nThese are structurally similar to short-arc lamps except that the distance between the electrodes in glass tube is greatly elongated. When mounted within an elliptical reflector, these lamps are frequently used to simulate sunlight in brief flashes, often for photography. Typical uses include solar cell testing (with the use of optical filters), solar simulation for age testing of materials, rapid thermal processing, material inspection and sintering. \n\nThough not commonly known outside of Russia and the former Soviet satellite countries, long arc xenon lamps were used for general illumination of large areas such as rail stations, sports arenas, mining operations, and nuclear power plant high bay spaces. These lamps, Лампа ксеноновая ДКСТ, literally \"lamp xenon DKST\" were characterized by high wattages ranging from 2kW to 100 kW. The lamps operated in a peculiar discharge regime where the plasma was thermalized, that is, the electrons were not significantly hotter than the gas itself. Under these conditions a positive current-voltage curve was demonstrated. This allowed the larger common sizes such as 5 and 10kW to operate directly from mains AC at 110 and 220 volts respectively without a ballast – only a series igniter was necessary to start the arc. \n\nThe lamps produced around 30 lumens/watt, which is about double the efficiency of the tungsten incandescent lamp, but less than more modern sources such as metal halide. They had the advantage of no mercury content, convective air cooling, no high pressure rupture risk, and nearly perfect color rendition. Due to low efficiency and competition from more common lamp types, few installations remain today, but where they do, they can be recognized by a characteristic rectangular/elliptical reflector, and crisp blue-white light from a relatively long tubular source.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798345", "title": "Vardiya", "text": "Vardiya\n\nVardiya (, also Vardia) is a neighborhood in Haifa, Israel. \n\nEstablished in the 1980s, Vardiya is located in the upper Carmel, between the Hadar Hacarmel and Romema. The pine forests ringing the neighborhood were once a popular site for family recreation and hiking. Several archeological sites and the ruins of stone houses several hundreds years old were discovered on the hills. The residential towers in this largely upscale neighborhood offer a panoramic view of Haifa Bay.\n\nDuring Operation Desert Storm, a Patriot missile site was deployed in Vardiya.\n"}
{"id": "1798346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798346", "title": "William Barak", "text": "William Barak\n\nWilliam Barak (or Beruk) (c. 1824 – 15 August 1903), was a traditional ngurungaeta (elder) of the Wurundjeri-willam clan, first inhabitants of present-day Melbourne, Australia. He became an influential spokesman for Aboriginal social justice and an important informant on Wurundjeri cultural lore.\n\nBarak was born in the early 1820s at Brushy Creek near present-day Croydon, in the country of the Wurundjeri people. His mother, Tooterrie, came from the Nourailum bulluk at Murchison, Victoria. His father, Bebejern, was an important member of the Wurundjeri clan. Barak was said to have been present as a boy when John Batman met with the tribal elders to \"purchase\" the Melbourne area in 1835. Before he died he described witnessing the signing of the treaty in a ceremony he called a tanderem.\n\nNinggalobin, Poleorong and Billibellary were the leading song makers and principal Wurundjeri leaders in the Melbourne region. European colonisation had caused disruptions to initiation ceremonies. In response these three men gathered at South Yarra in the late 1830s and inducted the young Barak into Aboriginal lore. This entailed formally presenting him with the symbols of manhood: strips of possum skin tied around his biceps; the gombert (reed necklace) around his neck; given his ilbi-jerri, a sharp and narrow bone or nose-peg; and his branjep, the apron worn by men to cover their genitals. At the end of the ceremony Barak presented his uncle, Billibellary, a possumskin cloak.\n\nBarak attended the government’s Yarra Mission School from 1837 to 1839.\n\nWhen he joined the Native Mounted Police in 1844, he was given the name of William Barak. He was Police Trooper No.19.\n\nIn early 1863, Barak moved to Coranderrk Station, near Healesville, Victoria with about thirty others.\n\nUpon the death of Simon Wonga in 1875, Barak became the Ngurungaeta of the clan. He worked tirelessly for his people and was a successful negotiator on their behalf. He was a highly respected man and leader, with standing amongst the Indigenous people and the European settlers.\n\nBarak died at Coranderrk in 1903 and is buried at the Coranderrk cemetery. He was about 85 years old.\n\nBarak is remembered for his artworks, which show both traditional Indigenous life and encounters with Europeans. Most of Barak's drawings were completed at Coranderrk during the 1880s and 1890s. They are now highly prized and exhibited in leading public galleries in Australia. His work is on permanent display in the National Gallery of Victoria Ian Potter Centre at Federation Square, Melbourne. Ceremony (1895) is housed at the Ballarat Fine Art Gallery.\n\nIn 2003 the National Gallery of Victoria held an exhibiton \"Remembering Barak\" to commemorate his life and work.An education resource was developed to accompany the exhibtion.\n\nIn 2004 Nillumbik Shire Council registered the place name Barak Bushlands, previously known as the Falkiner Street Reserve, along the Diamond Creek in Eltham.\n\nIn 2005 a 525-metre footbridge called the \"William Barak bridge\" was constructed stretching from Birrarung Marr to the MCG, improving the link between some of Melbourne's biggest sports and entertainment venues and the heart of the CBD. In 2006 a permanent sound installation called \"Proximities\" was installed on the bridge. It was designed by David Chesworth and Sonia Leber. Its central section features a welcome song sung in Woiwurrung by Wurundjeri Elder, and Barak's descendant, Joy Murphy Wandin.\n\nIn 2011 Barak was inducted on to the Victorian Aboriginal Heritage Roll.\n\nIn 2015 a 279-foot-tall (85-metre-tall) image of Barak was used to form the facade of an apartment building called Swanston Square in Melbourne, Australia. The portrait is formed by the white balconies against a black wall.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798355", "title": "Michigan State–Penn State football rivalry", "text": "Michigan State–Penn State football rivalry\n\nThe Michigan State–Penn State football rivalry is an American college football rivalry between the Michigan State Spartans and Penn State Nittany Lions. The Land Grant Trophy is presented to the winner of the game. Penn State leads 15–9 since joining the Big Ten. Michigan State leads the series 17–16–1.\nWhen Penn State joined the Big Ten Conference in 1993, the Nittany Lions and Spartans were designated as permanent rivals, and met each other for the trophy in the last week of conference play. The trophy, designed by former Michigan State coach George Perles, features pictures of Penn State's Old Main and Michigan State's Beaumont Tower, as well as figurines of \"The Spartan\" and \"Nittany Lion Shrine\" statues. The trophy is infamous for its unwieldiness and hodgepodge appearance.\n\nOn September 24, 2005 during Michigan week, a couple of Penn State students brazenly defaced the newly installed bronze Sparty statue. “It happened during broad daylight, with people all around” according to MSU police Sgt. Randy Holton. The statue was splattered with blue paint and the base tagged with the letters PSU. The perpetrators were able to evade capture despite the incident occurring in the middle of the day, during the traditional period of time when the statue is guarded by MSU student employees and Spartan Marching Band members, in what is called Sparty Watch.\n\nIn 2011, Nebraska joined the Big Ten, and the conference split into two divisions. Michigan State was in the Legends division and Penn State was in the Leaders division, so they no longer played each other annually. Instead, Indiana and Nebraska were designated as Michigan State and Penn State's permanent rivals, respectively. Under this setup, Penn State and Michigan State would compete on average two out of every five years, but the two teams did not play against each other during the three years that this system was in effect (2011–13).\n\nIn 2014, when Maryland and Rutgers joined the Big Ten, the conference was realigned into two geographically-based divisions, East and West. Michigan State and Penn State are both in the East division, and thus resumed a yearly series. \nMichigan State University followed by Penn State University are the nation's oldest land-grant universities, hence the name for the trophy. In 1955 on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the land grant system, Michigan State and Penn State were commemorated on a U.S. postage stamp honoring the \"First of the Land-Grant Colleges\". These two universities were the first ever universities to be placed on a U.S. postage stamp.\n\nThey are the 4th and 5th most recently joined members of the Big Ten, after Nebraska, who joined in 2011, Maryland and Rutgers, who both joined in 2014. Fellow Big Ten members Illinois, Minnesota, Ohio State, Purdue and Wisconsin all these being land-grant schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798384", "title": "Romema (Haifa)", "text": "Romema (Haifa)\n\nRomema () is a neighborhood in the city of Haifa, Israel. Romema (also known as \"The Romemot\" and Ramat Ben-Gurion) is located east of Ahuza, on the northern slope of Mount Carmel. Today the neighborhood has two sections - New Romema and Old Romema - with a joint population of 8,340.\n\n\"Rushmiya\" comes from a personal name.\n\nThe remains from Persian, Hellenistic, late Roman, Hasmonean, Byzantine, Ayyubid and Crusader era have been found here.\n\nDuring the Crusaders era, the settlement was surrounded by a wall, and a fortress was built in the centre. It was held by the Frankish settlers from 1099 to 1187.\n\nIt was again held by the Frankish settlers from 1192. In 1283 \"Rushmiya\" was mentioned as part of the domain of the Crusaders, according to the hudna between the Crusaders in Acre and the Mamluk sultan Qalawun. Frankish rule ended soon after, in 1291.\n\nDenys Pringle suggest that this was the Crusader place known as \"Francheville.\"\n\nIn 1870, Victor Guérin noted it as a small, ruined village.\nIn 1881, the PEF's \"Survey of Western Palestine\" (SWP) described \"Rushmia\": \"The ruin of a rectangular building, with a tower in its north-east corner. The walls are standing some 15 feet high in places. The building measures 35 feet north and south, and 45 east and west outside. The tower is about 15 feet square, and intended to flank the northern entrance. The east wall has been destroyed. The walls are 7 feet thick, built of courses of ashlar, the stones averaging 2 feet 3 inches by 1 foot, 2 inches by 1 foot 2 inches. The material used is very soft, and the stones much worn ; the mortar joints are very thick, and large pieces of pottery are used. No drafted stones were seen.\nThe tower is entered by a door 5 feet high, 2 feet broad, on the west. The roof is of rough stones, with a pointed arch. It is barrel-vaulted, and covered with hard cement. On the south is a loophole-window, and a side-door, the latter with a flat lintel. On the west wall is a window with retaining arch, and a small window above. All these arches are pointed. There is a large window in the south wall of the main building. It appears to have had a semicircular arch.\nThe site is a very commanding one. A path leads down to Haifa. There are ruins all round for a distance of some hundred yards. About 150 yards west are four vaults, apparently the basement of some building.\nThis is evidently the ruin of a fortress, on the hill-side, and the character of the masonry would lead to the supposition that it was one of those constructed by Dhaher el 'Amr.\"\n\nOn March 31, 2002, an 18-year-old Arab suicide bomber, Shadi Tobassi, from Jenin blew himself up at the Matza restaurant located on the highway east of Romema, killing 14 people. Hamas and Islamic Jihad took responsibility for the attack.\n\nHeichal HaSport, the Haifa Municipal Sports Complex, is located in Romema. The arena holds some 3,400 spectators and is among the largest in Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798386", "title": "Where You Been", "text": "Where You Been\n\nWhere You Been is the fifth official studio album by Dinosaur Jr., released on February 9, 1993. \n\nThe song \"Start Choppin'\" was their biggest hit, reaching number 3 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart in the U.S., and the Top 20 of the UK Singles Chart. This was drummer Murph's last recording with J Mascis until 2007's \"Beyond\".\n\nThis was the only Dinosaur Jr. album between 1988's \"Bug\" and 2007's \"Beyond\" to be recorded entirely with a full band. During Dinosaur Jr.'s major label years, Mascis performed most of the instruments himself on record.\n\nThe act peaked with 263,000 units sold in US.\n\n\"Where You Been\" was the first album recorded by Dinosaur Jr.'s new line-up, after the largely J Mascis-recorded \"Green Mind\". This line-up consisted of Mascis, long-time drummer Murph, and new bassist Mike Johnson. Mascis explained on an interview with \"120 Minutes\", \"It's the first time we've felt like a band for maybe six years, or something. [Johnson] adds a lot, just having someone that I can get along with musically and personally. It just makes the record better having all the people there contributing something, rather than the last one.\"\n\n\"Where You Been\" was Dinosaur Jr.'s greatest commercial success up to that point, reaching number 50 in the US and number 10 in the UK. Mascis reacted at the time, \"We're just making records and, I mean, every one sold more than the last one. Whatever happens, we'll deal with it then.\"\n\nIn a later interview, drummer Murph recalled the album positively, saying \"Out of the records I played on, I think of \"Where You Been\" very fondly.\"\n\nThe album was released to very positive reviews. AllMusic's Ned Raggett called the album \"occasionally moody and dark but otherwise [...] more rough fun. [...] [I]t's a puréed blast of punk, classic rock, and more. It may be business as usual, but it's good business just the same, whether it's the gentle \"Not the Same,\" on which Mascis does his best Neil Young impersonation, or the stuttering feedback snorts and rips on \"Hide,\" on which he borrows a bit back from disciple Kevin Shields.\" The tracks \"Out There\", \"Start Choppin\", \"Get Me\" and \"Goin Home\" were chosen as highlights. Michael Azerrad, writing for \"Rolling Stone\", was similarly positive, writing that \"their second major-label album [...] recall the shambling lope of Crazy Horse-era Young, as well as hints of minor Seventies icons from Blue Oyster Cult to Humble Pie. The majestic “Get Me” is “Layla” for the distressed-denim set (even the guitar squiggle at the end is pinched from Clapton’s “Let It Rain”).\" He singled out the \"riff-happy\" songs \"Start Choppin\" and \"I Ain't Sayin\" as \"excellent\" (calling the latter \"a two-minute gem\") and praised Mascis' production choices (\"he embellishes the band’s usual all-guitar palette with timpani, chimes and strings\") as \"a daring move in the sadly conformist world of alternative rock\". \"Like many of its peers,\" he concludes, \"Dinosaur Jr is a musical cargo cult, turning the detritus of another culture into something that can be used — and maybe even worshiped. For one of the crowning glories of slacker culture, look no further.\" Greg Kot wrote that what made the album \"compelling is Mascis' growth as a songwriter and, apparently, as a person. On previous albums, the singer's relationship with the world outside seemed about as emotionally developed as a 13-year-old's. But on \"Where You Been\" his wan, dissipated voice conveys a deeper commitment and yearning. [...] All the while, Mascis' army of guitars is placed in service of his breaking heart, and the sound is majestic and moving.\"\n\nRobert Christgau was less positive, finding that \"somehow his axe and his voice sing the same tune, momentarily transmuting his self-pity into simple sadness\". He singled out the first two tracks as highlights and gave the album a two-star honorable mention in his '90s Consumer Guide book.\n\n\"Prefix\" magazine's Matthew Flander described it as \"a classic record from the band, capturing just about every great ’90s song they had aside from “The Wagon” and “Feel the Pain”.\" He also called the album a possible \"one-up\" from Mascis to Sebadoh's \"Bubble & Scrape\", writing: \"if that was his goal, you can see [...] how he might have tried to beat Barlow at his own game. And maybe there was no clear winner between the two, but we sure lucked out. Stevie Chick of \"BBC\" called it a \"[l]aconic, guitar-heavy masterpiece from Dinosaur Jr.’s second-wind.\" \"There was something unabashedly classic about \"Where You Been\"’s rock,\" she writes, \"deriving not least from Mascis’s copious guitar heroics, layering multiple tracks of scree and howl so the entire album feels like one epic, sky-scraping solo. [...] With his fondness for extended guitar-play, his country-soaked rock crunch, his cracked and sweet vocals, \"Where You Been\" identified Mascis as hewn from the same stone as Neil Young before him.\" \"The A.V. Club\"'s Noel Murray wrote that \"Dinosaur Jr. wasn’t the most unlikely band to make the jump to a major label in the ’90s (the post-Nirvana era was a weird time), but few could’ve guessed that Mascis’ group would actually sell a respectable amount of records, without substantially altering its style. [...] Barlow-less Dinosaur Jr. came off a little less indie and a little more bombastic; yet the songs were still offbeat, personal, and far from radio-friendly.\" He wrote that the song \"I Ain't Sayin\", with \"its canyon-filling bookending riff to its appealing shuffle and its heartwarming “rolling home to you” chorus [...] is a crowd-pleaser that could’ve been Dinosaur Jr.’s biggest hit if it’d been pushed a little harder—or at all.\" Cam Lindsay of \"Exclaim!\" called it a \"slower, slightly superior (in comparison to its predecessor) grunge-era classic.\" She called both the releases \"cornerstones\" to the aforementioned movement, writing however that \"unless you're jonesin' for reliving that period again, it's fair to say in today's world they're not much else.\" \"In addition to succeeding in its bid to pluck up some post-‘Lithium' plaid-clad grunge fans,\" writes Josh Gray of \"Clash\" \"'Where You Been?'s textbook construction of over-driven ear-worms would go on to strike chords with many later alt-90s guitar heroes. 'Goin' Home's gentle world-weariness sounds for all the world like it could be an Eels rip-off if it weren’t for the fact that E was still just a bespectacled teenager who was into birds at this point. Similarly the verbal spaghetti spilling over 'Hide' pre-dates Jeff Magnum's [sic] similar drawl on ‘In the Aeroplane Over The Sea’ by a fair few years. This album is basically a master-class for any songwriter struggling to write a single without compromising their sound.\" Mascis himself would go on to rank it as his 3rd best effort, saying: \"We were trying really hard and it was well realized for what we wanted to do.\"\n\nThe Felled Trees Collective, consisting of members from Thrice, Samiam and No Motiv (also featuring appearances from Texas Is the Reason, Knapsack, Beat Union and numerous other bands), covered the album in its entirety on its 20th anniversary. The album was released on the 15th of October 2013 through the Siren Records webstore.\n\nThe album received the following accolades:\n\nAll songs written by J Mascis.\n\n\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\nSingles - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "1798396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798396", "title": "Whakapapa River", "text": "Whakapapa River\n\nThe Whakapapa River in New Zealand trickles off the Whakapapa skifield of Mount Ruapehu, down the western slopes of the mountain, passing near Owhango before finally merging with the Whanganui River just east of Kakahi at .\n\nPeter McIntyre had a home near Kakahi overlooking the confluence of the Whanganui and Whakapapa rivers, and painted several oil landscapes of the Whakapapa River. After his death, the Whakapapa River undermined the white pumice cliffs where his house was built and claimed the house as its own.\n\nOccasionally people kayak a stretch of the river from near Owhango () to near Kakahi ().\n\n"}
{"id": "1798400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798400", "title": "Thalamic reticular nucleus", "text": "Thalamic reticular nucleus\n\nThe thalamic reticular nucleus is part of the ventral thalamus that forms a capsule around the thalamus laterally. However, recent evidence from mice and fish question this statement and define it as dorsal thalamic structure. It is separated from the thalamus by the external medullary lamina. Reticular cells are GABAergic, and have discoid dendritic arbors in the plane of the nucleus.\n\nThalamic Reticular Nucleus is variously abbreviated TRN, RTN, NRT, and RT.\n\nThe thalamic reticular nucleus receives input from the cerebral cortex and dorsal thalamic nuclei. Most input comes from collaterals of fibers passing through the thalamic reticular nucleus. Primary thalamic reticular nucleus efferent fibers project to dorsal thalamic nuclei, but never to the cerebral cortex. This is the only thalamic nucleus that does not project to the cerebral cortex, instead it modulates the information from other nuclei in the thalamus. Its function is modulatory on signals going through thalamus (and the reticular nucleus).\n\nThe thalamic reticular nucleus receives massive projections from the external segment of the Globus Pallidus, thought to play a part in disinhibition of thalamic cells, which is essential for initiation of movement (Parent and Hazrati, 1995)\n\nIt has been suggested that the reticular nucleus receives afferent input from the reticular formation and in turn projects to the other thalamic nuclei, regulating the flow of information through these to the cortex. There is debate over the presence of distinct sectors within the nucleus that each correspond to a different sensory or cognitive modality.\n\nFor original connectivity anatomy see Jones 1975.\n\nFor discussion of mapping and cross modality pathways see Crabtree 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798407", "title": "The Left-Hander (opera)", "text": "The Left-Hander (opera)\n\nThe Left-Hander or Levsha (ru:Левша; \"The Left-Hander\") is an opera in 2 acts by composer Rodion Shchedrin. The work uses a Russian language libretto by the composer after Nikolai Leskov's \"The Tale of Cross-eyed Lefty from Tula and the Steel Flea\" (Russian: Сказ о тульском косом Левше). The work had its world premiere in a concert performance on 26 June 2013, followed by the world stage premiere on 27 July 2013 at the Mariinsky II in St Petersburg. Conductor Valery Gergiev led both performances. \nIn 2015 a full recording of the opera was released by the Mariinsky Theater with Andrey Popov in the title role, Maria Maksakova as Princess Charlotte, Kristina Alieva as Flea, Edward Tsanga as Platov, Andrei Spekhov as the English sailor, and Vladimir Moroz as both Tsars Alexander I and Nicholas I.\n"}
{"id": "1798408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798408", "title": "Loverboy (Mariah Carey song)", "text": "Loverboy (Mariah Carey song)\n\n\"Loverboy\" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey. It was released on July 16, 2001 by Virgin Records America as the lead single from \"Glitter\" (2001). Written and produced by Carey, Larry Blackmon, Thomas Jenkins and Clark Kent, \"Loverboy\" is built around a sample from \"Candy\" by Cameo, who are also featured on the track. Lyrically, the song finds Carey fantasizing about her loverboy, a man that will fulfill her physical and sexual desires. The recording was accompanied by an official remix, titled \"Loverboy (Remix)\", featuring guest artists Ludacris, Da Brat, Shawnna and Twenty II.\n\nThe track was subject to controversy, following reports that Jennifer Lopez and Tommy Mottola (Carey's ex-husband) stole the idea of sampling the singer's original planned sample, Yellow Magic Orchestra's \"Firecracker\", over a month after Carey had signed for it. Since Carey's \"Glitter\" was to be released over a month after Lopez's album, she changed the song's melody to sample from \"Candy\" instead. Controversy ensued following its release; Carey was hospitalized for severe mental and physical exhaustion, following poorly received television appearances involving the song and album.\n\nAfter the song's release in the United States, \"Loverboy\" stalled on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The song reached a peak of number two on the Hot 100 but failed to top the chart due to weak radio airplay. The single jumped 60–2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 the week after it was released as a commercial single, with sales driven by a Virgin promotion offering the CD for a bargain-priced 49 cents. \"Loverboy\" became Carey's first lead single to not reach number one. Internationally, the song failed to garner strong charting, reaching the top-ten in Australia and Canada, and the top-twenty in Portugal, Italy and the United Kingdom.\n\n\"Loverboy\" received generally mixed reviews from music critics; many called the song unoriginal and dated while others felt that the featured artists (primarily on the remix version) overpowered Carey and made the song disorganized. A music video, directed by David LaChapelle, was shot for both versions of the song. The first version features Carey as a scantily-clad car girl, waving a flag as her loverboy finishes a race. The video for the remix version features similar footage, only including shots of the song's guests in race-cars during their verses. She performed \"Loverboy\" live on The Sweet Sweet Fantasy Tour in 2016, as well as her Caution World Tour in 2019.\n\nOriginally planned to be released at a later date, \"Loverboy\" was leaked to radio on June 1, 2001. As a result, Virgin Records pushed the release date in order to control the leak. Following the release of \"Loverboy\", Carey embarked on a short promotional campaign for the song. On July 19, 2001, Carey made a surprise appearance on the MTV program \"Total Request Live\" (TRL). As the show's host Carson Daly began taping following a commercial break, Carey came out onto the filming stage, pushing an ice cream cart while wearing a large men's shirt. Seemingly anxious and exhilarated, Carey began giving out individual bars of ice cream to fans and guests on the program, while waving to the crowd down below on Times Square, while diverging into a rambling monologue regarding therapy. Carey then walked to Daly's platform and began a striptease, in which she shed her shirt to reveal a tight yellow and green ensemble, leading him to exclaim \"Mariah Carey has lost her mind!\". While she later revealed that Daly was aware of her presence in the building prior to her appearance, she admitted that he was meant to act surprised in order to provide a more dramatic effect for the program. Carey's appearance on TRL garnered strong media attention, with many critics and newspapers citing her behavior as \"troubled\" and \"erratic\". In the days following her appearance on TRL, Carey had begun displaying \"erratic behavior\" during a public record signing for the single at Tower Records in New York. As the appearance was filmed, she began rambling on several points, leading her to discuss radio-host Howard Stern, and how his form of humor on his program bothered her greatly. At that point, Carey's publicist Cindi Berger grabbed the microphone from her hand, and ordered the cameras to stop filming. Only days later, Carey began posting irregular voice notes and messages on her official website:\n\nI'm trying to understand things in life right now and so I really don't feel that I should be doing music right now. What I'd like to do is just a take a little break or at least get one night of sleep without someone popping up about a video. All I really want is [to] just be me and that's what I should have done in the first place ... I don't say this much but guess what, I don't take care of myself.\n\nAfter the quick removal of the messages, Berger commented that Carey had been \"obviously exhausted and not thinking clearly\" when she posted the letters. Two days later on July 26, she was suddenly hospitalized, citing \"extreme exhaustion\" and a \"physical and emotional breakdown\". Following the heavy media coverage surrounding Carey's publicized breakdown and hospitalization, Virgin Records and 20th Century Fox delayed the release of both the film's soundtrack and the film itself for three weeks: from August 21 to September 11 and from August 31 to September 21, respectively. Following Carey's absence from the public eye, as well as her abandonment of promotional appearances for the film and soundtrack, her unprecedented $100 million five-album record deal with Virgin Records (EMI Records) was bought out for $50 million. The decision was brought out due to the low sales of the project, as well as the negative publicity surrounding her breakdown. Soon after, Carey flew to Capri, Italy for a period of five months, in which she began writing material for her new album, stemming from all the personal experiences she had endured throughout the past year. Additionally, she founded her own label modeled after her initials, MonarC Entertainment, and signed a new three-album record deal with Island Records, valued at over $23 million.\n\n\"Loverboy\"'s hook is built around a sample of \"Candy\", by Cameo. Aside from borrowing from the melody, \"Loverboy\" features Cameo as a lead vocalist on the track. According to Chuck Taylor from \"Billboard\", \"Loverboy\" is reminiscent of several of Carey's previous lead singles, as they too were predominantly built around samples of older songs. He described some of its background flourishes as \"swirling harmonies overtop\", and noted the inclusion of many shouts and ad-libs from Carey and Cameo. Due to the song's heavy usage of the \"Candy\" sample, and the heavy blend of instrumentation and vocals, he said that to his bewilderment, the song was \"devoid of a standard hook\". \"NME\"s Elios Therepio felt the idea of sampling \"Candy\" was genius \"on paper\", but once recorded, suffered from various miscalculations. He felt it didn't match the success Carey's previous single, \"Fantasy\" (which also recalled its melody from an older song), and criticized the inclusion of several over-the-top \"keyboard and synth arrangements\". Regarding Carey's voice, aside from describing it as \"obscured\", Therepio expressed his difficulty in understanding her lyrical phrases, claiming it was weakened from \"no-everyone-can-understand-what-you're-saying'-itis\". Gil Kaufman from MTV News noted the inclusion of \"bouncing funky bass [and] rock guitars\", while Roger Caitlin of the \"Hartford Courant\" described how Carey was often reduced to \"breathy background vocals\" on \"Loverboy\". Lyrically, the song finds Carey looking for her \"loverboy\", and a sugar-daddy that's going to \"love her right\". Therepio found it ironic how Carey was crooning for a sugar-daddy, when she had just left one (referring to her older ex-husband Tommy Mottola). Additionally, he felt Carey was molding her image from that of a balladeer, to a \"pin-up image\" of a pop star. The song's lyrics are racy, and feature the protagonist asking for her \"loverboy\" to fulfill her sexual desires: \"Loverboy come on and love me / Give me more\".\n\nThroughout 2000, Carey had already been writing and recording material for \"Glitter\". During this period, she developed the concept for the album's lead single, \"Loverboy\". Originally, Carey had sampled the melody and hook from the 1978 Yellow Magic Orchestra song \"Firecracker\", using an interpolation of it throughout the chorus and introduction. In early theatrical trailers for \"Glitter\", the original version of \"Loverboy\" was still featured. As Carey had ended her contract with Columbia Records, Jennifer Lopez was signed by Tommy Mottola, and had begun recording material for her album, \"J.Lo\" (2001). According to The Inc.'s Irv Gotti, Mottola, head of Columbia and Carey's ex-husband, knew of Carey's usage of the \"Firecracker\" sample, and attempted to have Lopez use the same sample before her. At the time, Carey had become increasingly paranoid over outside executives being informed about \"Glitter\", especially following news of Mottola's \"theft\" of the song. When the music publishers for \"Firecracker\" were questioned, they admitted Carey had licensed usage of the sample first, and Lopez's team had signed for it over one month later, under Mottola's arrangement. Following the scandal, Carey was not able to use the original sample, as Lopez's album was to be released far earlier than \"Glitter\". She subsequently changed the composition of \"Loverboy\", and incorporated a new sample, \"Candy\" by Cameo. The \"Firecracker\" sample was eventually used by Lopez on her song \"I'm Real\", from her album \"J.Lo\". The remix of Mariah's \"Loverboy\" featured rapper Da Brat singing a pointed message about \"bitches emulating [her] daily\", to the melody from \"Firecracker\".\n\n\"Loverboy\" was met with generally mixed reviews from music critics; many were not impressed with the incorporation of the sample, and felt the song didn't lead Carey into any newer ground or innovation. Additionally, several reviewers were not impressed with Carey's concealed vocals and the song's overly-complicated production. Sarah Rodman of the \"Boston Herald\" described the song's production as a \"traffic-jam\" and wrote \"'Loverboy' is another in an increasingly long line of glitzy, candy-coated, creatively stunted song.\" Writing for the \"Los Angeles Times\", Natalie Nichols felt \"Loverboy\" was \"predictable\" and presented nothing new for Carey's audience. \"USA Today\"s Edna Gunderson wrote the song off as \"skimpy\", while Glenn Gamboa from \"Newsday\" described its overall reception as \"lukewarm\". Harry Guerin from Raidió Teilifís Éireann outed the song as one of Carey's \"finest moments\" on \"Glitter\", and disagreed with criticism regarding the \"overly-populated\" musical background\". Allmusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine listed the song as the only \"recommended\" song from \"Glitter\", while Gil Kaufman of MTV News called it a \"fun, uptempo dance number\". Craig Seymour from \"Entertainment Weekly\" rated \"Loverboy\" a C-, and criticized its lyrical content and production. An anonymous writer from \"The Guardian\" felt the song had \"no decipherable tune\", due to the inclusion of electronic musical instruments and background shouts and ad-libs. \"Billboard\"s Chuck Taylor described the song as \"self-sabotage\", and felt Carey was gambling her longevity. He described the production as a \"mumbo jumbo of disparate elements\", and wrote \"the mighty may have fallen here\".\n\nPrior to Virgin's release of \"Loverboy\", Carey halted all promotional appearances corresponding to the song. Citing an emotional breakdown and a subsequent hospitalization, Carey remained out of the public eye for several weeks. After its release, \"Loverboy\" failed to garner strong charting on prominent international markets, and received poor radio airplay throughout the United States. \"Loverboy\" peaked atop the \"Billboard\"s Hot Singles Sales chart for four consecutive weeks, though due to weak airplay, managed to reach number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 with \"Bootylicious\" by Destiny's Child holding it back from the top position. \"Loverboy\" finished as the best-selling single of 2001 in the United States, with sales of 571,000 units, falling short of the previous year's best-seller, which accumulated sales upwards of one million copies. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified the song Gold. In Canada, \"Loverboy\" peaked at number three on the singles chart, and charted for a total of thirteen weeks.\n\nThroughout Australasia and Europe, the song peaked outside the top-twenty in most countries. \"Loverboy\" debuted at its peak position of number seven on the Australian Singles Chart, during the week of July 29, 2001. The following week, the song began its decline, and experienced a total chart trajectory of seven weeks. The song was certified Gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA), denoting shipments of over 35,000 units. On July 29, 2001, \"Loverboy\" debuted at number 65 on the Ö3 Austria Top 40 chart, spending a total of three weeks in the chart. The song achieved relatively weak charting in both the Flemish and Wallonian territories in Belgium, peaking at numbers 49 and 34, respectively. Making its debut at its peak position of number 54, \"Loverboy\" charted for a total of nine weeks in France, before falling out on November 3, 2001. On the Dutch Top 40 chart, the song made its debut at number 68. The following week the song peaked at number 34, before dropping outside the top 40 three weeks later, ending its five-week run. On July 26, 2001, \"Loverboy\" debuted at number 49 on the Swedish Singles Chart, and reached a peak of number 44. Similarly in Switzerland, the song peaked at number 66, and spent only four weeks fluctuating inside the chart. On the UK Singles Chart, the song debuted at its peak of number 12. The following week, the song dropped to number 29 on the chart, before dropping outside the top-forty two weeks later.\n\nAside from the regular version of the song, an official remix of \"Loverboy\" was included on \"Glitter\". The song's main remix, titled \"Loverboy\" (Remix), uses the same sample as the album version and retains all of Carey's original vocals. It has a different introduction, the singing and spoken parts of Cameo are greatly reduced (and are not credited), and additional raps are included by Da Brat, Ludacris, Shawnna, and Twenty II. Critics panned the song, agreeing that the inclusion on the former pair only made it more difficult to hear and understand Carey's singing. Many described their inclusion as \"upstaging\" the singer, while others felt they made the song increasingly tumultuous. \"NME\" writer Elios Therepio rated the remix five out of ten stars, and claimed the song to have been a much weaker lead single than Carey's \"Fantasy\" (1995). Jim Farber from \"Daily News\" criticized Brat's verse, writing how it \"cut right through\" the production. \"The Morning Call\"s Len Righi described the remix as \"cloddish\", while Jim Abbott from the \"Orlando Sentinel\" felt the song's guests \"upstaged\" Carey.\n\nTwo music videos, both directed by David LaChapelle, were shot for the song and its accompanying remix, and premiered on \"Total Request Live\" on June 8, 2001. The videos introduced a less demure image of Carey, one that received negative backlash from critics. She appears in the video with a lighter hair color than she had sported in the past, and wearing a series of revealing ensembles. Reviewers disregarded Carey's newer image, primarily her double-handkerchief bra, and likened her to younger pop singers such as Britney Spears, which they felt cheapened the singer. The video begins with Cameo driving all over a racetrack, while Carey, dressed in revealing clothing, is shown singing in various \"car girl\" positions at the track on a hot summer day. She flags down cars as the \"flag girl\" and dances as a \"tire girl\" in a kaleidoscope-inspired sequence, before jumping out of a pop out cake to the roars of the crowd below. Several other scenes of Carey in a pink jumpsuit while riding on top of a race-car are shown, during which Cameo continues the race. A video was also made for the remix and retains most of the shots of the original. In it, Ludacris and Shawnna can be seen rapping together as they ride in an old car, while Da Brat and Twenty II rap together in a more modern car without a hood.\n\nThe music video for \"Loverboy\" received generally negative reviews from critics, many of whom felt Carey was portrayed in an overtly sexual manner. A writer from \"The Guardian\" criticized the video, calling it \"wacky\" and describing Carey's choreography as \"running amok\". Slant Magazine's Sal Cinquemani felt the video was \"brilliantly over-the-top\", while an anonymous columnist from \"NME\" commented that it would cause male viewers to \"play with themselves\" after watching. In a countdown of \"The 5 Least Sexiest Music Videos\", Priya Elan from \"NME\" included the video at number three, writing how the singer \"spins with the mad-eyed grace of someone who hasn’t been to sleep for 72 hours\" (referring to Carey's mention of insomnia as a reason for her breakdown). Japiya Burns of \"The Michigan Daily\" was critical of Carey's portrayal in the video, primarily her double-handkerchief bra. He felt that in doing so, Carey was cheapening herself and her image to resemble younger pop singers such as Britney Spears.\n\nAt the time of its release, Carey did not perform \"Loverboy\" live. The first performance of the song came 15 years later, on Carey's Sweet Sweet Fantasy Tour in 2016. Three years later, it was also performed as part of the #JusticeForGlitter Medley of Carey's Caution World Tour.\n\nAustralian CD single\n\nAustralian promo CD single\n\nJapanese CD single\n\nEuropean CD maxi-single\nEuropean CD single\n\nUK 12\" vinyl single\n\nUK Promo maxi-single\n\nUS CD maxi-single\nCredits for \"Glitter\" adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798417", "title": "Litblog", "text": "Litblog\n\nA litblog (alternate: lit-blog or literary blog) is a blog that focuses primarily on the topic of literature. There is a community of litblogs in the blogosphere whose authors cover a variety of literary topics. An author of a litblog is called a 'Litblogger' and they write about fiction, nonfiction, poetry, the publishing industry, literary journals, literary criticism, and more. They may focus on special genres of literature, including science fiction and mystery. Some litbloggers prefer an objective or formal tone, while others are more conversational.\n\nMany litblogs feature reviews of books which may or may not be featured in the mainstream press. Some litblogs feature critiques of reviews in the mainstream press. Interviews with authors are another common feature. Litblogs can also be used as virtual reading groups for focused discussion on a specific piece or pieces of literature, with some litblogs following a particular piece of literature through an entire reading, and others reprinting diaries or letters from authors. Some litblogs are resources for information about the publishing industry, publicity, or writing craft.\n\nMany litblogs have one author, but collaborative blogs have many authors, one of whom may serve as the primary author overseeing contributors. There are also collaborative blogs focussing on significant international or national literary awards such as Read the Nobels and The Complete Booker where contributors share reviews of winning and shortlisted titles, information about award-winning authors or the history of the award. These are sometimes associated with so-called 'reading challenges' but they can become a useful repository of commentary about award winners and their books over time, especially in the case of less well-known authors. \nOther collaborative blogs include those focusing on the work of a single notable author such as La Comedie Humaine where members share their summaries and reviews as well as information about the French author, Honoré de Balzac.\n\nBookslut, Laila Lalami, The Literary Saloon, and Maud Newton are some of the oldest well-known active literary blogs. Moby Lives, one of the oldest literary blogs, was recently defunct, but has returned on the Melville House Publishing website. Litkicks, run by Levi Asher is the oldest-known literary blog of its kind and also remains active. \n\nSee also: HTML Giant, Reader of Depressing Books, No One Does That, and The Rumpus. Abandoned Books reviews books and authors not much discussed on the web any more but which were bestsellers in their day. The blog's owner, Doug Bassett, is interested in bestsellers of the past, \"partly because there seems to be a real dearth of information on these authors, partly because I'm interested in what books become popular, what these authors share (or don't share).\"\n\nBilingual literary bloggers include Book Around the Corner (France, written in English), Iris on Books (Holland, in English), Beauty is a Sleeping Cat (Switzerland, in English), Caravana de Recuerdos (bilingual Spanish/English).\nSome litblogs are profitable businesses while others are not run for profit. Some authors of litblogs are professional writers, academics, literature enthusiasts or industry professionals. Others are simply people who enjoy writing about books. In the democratic forum of the blogosphere, these groups can interact by reading and commenting on one another's posts. \n\nIncreasingly newspapers and magazines are also creating litblogs. Dwight Garner of the \"New York Times Book Review\" writes a litblog called Paper Cuts that is hosted by the newspaper. \"The Guardian\" allows authors to chime in on books and current publishing gossip at a feature called Comment is free. Litblogs can also serve as adjuncts to literary journals or organizations, such as those of , Inside Higher Ed, Spike Magazine, \"The Virginia Quarterly Review\", and the Poetry Foundation. The National Book Critics Circle has its own litblog called Critical Mass that posts commentary that is very critical of nonprofessional litbloggers.\n\nLitBloggers have also entered the Literary Prize scene by hosting what are called Shadow Literary Prizes, which have no monetary value but offer valuable international publicity to the long and short-listed books, and provide an archive of reviews of the titles, since all the longlisted titles are reviewed by at least one member of the Shadow Jury, and all the shortlisted titles are reviewed by all members. The Shadow Giller Prize, founded in 1995, was the first of these Shadow Literary Prizes. Its origins were the inaugural Shadow Giller Lunch of literary critics and people in the publishing industry in 1995, but the concept migrated to the web in 2009. Coordinated by Kevin From Canada, who convenes a 'jury' each year, the Shadow Giller Prize Jury by consensus awards its own Shadow Prize to the book the jury prefers . In 2011, The Shadow Man Asian Literary Prize began : modelled on the Shadow Giller and coordinated by ANZ LitLovers in Australia , it also has an international jury of bloggers who commit to the same principle: to criticize a prize, a Shadow Literary Prize Jury makes its choice before the Real Jury makes its announcement.\n\nProfessional critics have litblogs at House of Mirth, About Last Night, Inside Higher Ed, The Dizzies, and more. In addition, the litbloggers from The Elegant Variation, Laila Lalami, The Old Hag, Maud Newton, Return of the Reluctant, Bookslut, Ready Steady Book, The Reading Experience, and Sarah Weinman are a few of the bloggers writing book reviews and criticism for major newspapers and magazines. The National Book Critics Circle has its own litblog called Critical Mass that posts commentary that is very critical of nonprofessional litbloggers. Litblogger Scott Esposito also established The Quarterly Conversation, a quarterly online publication featuring lengthy literary essays.\n\nSome litbloggers, including Laila Lalami and Mark Sarvas of The Elegant Variation, are also literary fiction authors. Many published authors have also started blogs. Some of these bloggers are Neil Gaiman, Alison Bechdel, and Cory Doctorow of the popular blog Boing Boing. Writers of young adult fiction increasingly are blogging as well. Some of these bloggers are Neil Gaiman, Holly Black, Justine Larbalestier, and Scott Westerfeld.\n\nGroup litblogs continue to diversify. A group of academics runs a litblog called The Valve. The Litblog Co-op (disbanded) was a group of 20 litbloggers who voted to collectively recommend a book every three months. In the UK, six leading litblogs joined forces to create Britlitblogs.com. There have been blogs devoted to one book, like William T. Vollmann's \"Rising Up and Rising Down\", and blogs that have reprinted the entire contents of Samuel Pepys' Diary and Franz Kafka's diary. Today in Letters provided letters and diary entries from each day in literary history.\n\nMaking Light, John Scalzi, and Miss Snark (the latter now defunct) are written by professionals in the industry who have insights for writers. Flogging the Quill is a litblog about the craft of writing. Book Tour is a litblog creation of Virtual Book Tour founder Kevin Smokler, and Chris Anderson (author of \"The Long Tail\". Buzz, Balls & Hype is devoted to the creation of buzz for writers.\n\nEdward Champion from Reluctant Habits has an author interview podcast series called The Bat Segundo Show.\n\nRecently children's literary bloggers have organized together and brought about an entity best known as the Kidlitosphere. These bloggers include professional reviewers, booksellers, librarians, parents, homeschoolers, authors, illustrators, and anyone else concerned in the field. Some blog professionally for the online editions of print journals, like A Fuse#8 Production on School Library Journal and ShelfTalker on Publishers Weekly. Others do a regular series of interviews and reviews, including Seven Impossible Things Before Breakfast, Big A little a, and bookshelves of doom.\n\nThe Kidlitosphere has its own literary award it hands out once a year called The Cybils Award. They also meet once a year in October for a yearly conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798418", "title": "Peter McIntyre (artist)", "text": "Peter McIntyre (artist)\n\nPeter McIntyre (4 July 1910 – 11 September 1995) was a New Zealand painter and author. \n\nPeter McIntyre was born in Dunedin on 4 July 1910, the son of Peter McIntyre, an emigrant from Scotland, and his wife, Isabella Edith Cubitt. His father was a co-founder of the Caxton Printing Company and was well known for his lithographic work. He also worked as a cartoonist for the Otago Daily News. He was educated at Otago Boys' High School and, encouraged by his father, received instruction in art from Alfred O’Keeffe, a local artist, executing several works for family and friends. After completing his schooling, he then went onto the University of Otago, intending to study journalism. However, by 1931, McIntyre had decided to pursue art studies and abandoned his courses in New Zealand.\n\nMcIntyre went to London where he attended the Slade School of Fine Art, studying for a Bachelor of Fine Arts. He enjoyed life in London, mixing with fellow students and attending exhibitions. Despite limited income, he often travelled to mainland Europe and painted scenes in France, Germany, Italy and Spain. In 1934, his final year of studies at Slade, he won prizes in composition and figure drawing.\n\nFollowing his graduation, McIntyre remained in England, working as a free-lance commercial artist. His work was varied; he did artwork for theatre productions, murals for restaurants, and serials for woman's magazines. He also did his own contemporary work in modern styles such as French cubism and English avant-garde. In 1937, he married an Englishwoman, Lillian , herself a painter in addition to being a model.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Second World War, McIntyre attempted to enlist in the British Army but was declined. He soon found out that New Zealand expatriates were able to join a section of the 2nd New Zealand Expeditionary Force (2NZEF) that was being raised in London. He promptly enlisted, an act that he did not consider to be particularly patriotic but motivated more by self-defence against a fascist threat. The London section of the 2NZEF became the 34th Anti-tank Battery which received its training at Aldershot. In April 1940, the unit left England for Egypt, where it was initially based at Maadi Camp, on the outskirts of Cairo, and attached to the 2nd New Zealand Division. \n\nWhile in Egypt, McIntyre's artistic skills were soon recognised. He provided drawings for \"Parade\", a military magazine and was invited to prepare artwork to form the basis of a security poster. The artwork was later used for a postcard and McIntyre also worked on the divisional Christmas card. On his own time, he also executed landscapes and portraits of fellow soldiers of the 2NZEF. \n\nHis skills soon saw him transferred to the draughting office at the headquarters of the 2nd New Zealand Division, preparing maps and drawings of Italian defensive positions based on aerial photographs. His workspace was surrounded by some of his own artwork which soon attracted the attention of the division's commander, Major General Bernard Freyberg. For some time, the New Zealand Government had been considering appointing an official war artist to record the exploits of its men at war but was yet to make a commitment. In January 1941, Freyberg, tiring of the lengthy appointment process, selected McIntyre as the official New Zealand war artist, promoting him to lieutenant at the same time.\n\nIn his new role, it was proposed that McIntyre would execute portraits of decorated soldiers, battle scenes, and a series on the life of a New Zealand soldier, both in the frontlines and in the rear areas. McIntyre's first orders from Freyberg were to paint portraits of the brigadiers of the 2nd New Zealand Division, a task of which he soon tired. However, he soon found that Freyberg allowed him plenty of leeway in what was to be produced. \n\nWhen the 2nd New Zealand Division was sent to Greece, as one of a number of Allied units dispatched to support the country in early March 1941 in anticipation of an invasion by Germany, McIntyre was ordered to remain in Egypt. Following the disastrous Allied campaign in Greece, the division was evacuated to Crete. He petitioned Freyberg for permission to be sent there, was successful, and arrived in Crete on 14 May. His first task was to paint a portrait of the King of Greece, who had been evacuated to the island. McIntyre was present during the airborne invasion of 20 May 1941 and it was at this time that he began to establish his methods for capturing events as they unfolded before him. He would work relatively close to the frontlines, executing sketches from which he would later work up paintings. In doing so, he moved away from his avant-garde influenced style and developed a romantic realism in his work. \n\nFrom the fighting in Crete, McIntyre produced a number of notable works; landings of \"Fallschirmjäger\" (paratroopers), bombing of divisional field hospitals, and crashed German gliders. The latter images features German war dead; he did not depict New Zealand dead although he would show wounded. On returning to Egypt after the division had been evacuated from Crete at the end of May, several of McIntyre's works were published in \"Parade\" magazine. He was not able to bring with him all his paintings; some of the larger watercolours had to be abandoned in Crete.\n\nIn Egypt, McIntyre's initial focus was converting the many sketches he had made on Crete into proper paintings. Impressed by the output, Freyberg promoted him to captain. The first exhibition of his work was held in Cairo in July 1941 and some of his work was also used to illustrate an article in the Illustrated London News later in the year. The 2nd New Zealand Division was in the process of being rebuilt following the campaigns in Greece and Crete and McIntyre captured aspects of this process; he depicted many scenes of camp life and the daily activities. When authorities announced the award of the Victoria Cross to Lieutenant Charles Upham of the 20th Battalion, McIntyre was instructed to undertake a portrait of him. When the division moved to the frontlines to participate in Operation Crusader, McIntyre went with it, sketching battle scenes and depictions of New Zealanders on the move. He was among those that was able to get into Tobruk and once there made several sketches and paintings of the besieged port.\n\nAnother exhibition of his work was held in Cairo in April 1942, which was well received. McIntyre also spent time with the Long Range Desert Group, which had many New Zealanders serving with it. He would produce several works from this experience.\n\nIn 1943, selected pieces of McIntyre's art work was used by the New Zealand publishing company A.H. Reed Limited, to illustrate \"Passage to Tobruk\", a memoir by Francis Jackson that was published under Reed's Raupo imprint.\n\nAt the end of the war, he had been promoted to major.\n\nReturning to Dunedin in February 1946, McIntyre set up a studio on the city's Princes Street. He worked fulltime on commissioned portraits and landscapes. He had planned on establishing a school for the arts beginning with the development of a community of likeminded artists. However, this proved to be a challenge as he found the local art scene to be amateurish. \n\nIn early 1949, his marriage to Lillian McIntyre ended in divorce and he promptly remarried. He and his new wife, Patricia and moved to Wellington, where he based himself in Mount Victoria. He was a professional portrait and landscape painter, critical of modernism and modern art. He was successful in art competitions, placing third in the 1957 Kelliher Art Award with a landscape of the Rangitikei River and winning outright two years later with a scene of Dunedin's Octagon. He was third again in 1960, 1961 and 1963.\n\nIn 1962 McIntyre was approached by Ray Richards, of A.H. Reed Limited, with a suggestion of writing a book on his career. This proved to be \"The Painted Years\", the first of several books authored and illustrated by McIntyre. It was a success, and led to his commissioning by Reed to produce a volume with landscapes of New Zealand. This was \"Peter McIntyre's New Zealand\", published in 1964. The first print run of 5,000 sold out within days and the book would remained in print for 20 years. His next book was \"Peter McIntyre's Pacific\", published in 1966, was also a success and ended up being distributed into the United States. A Californian company, Lane Publishing Company, partnered with Reed and McIntyre to produce \"Peter McIntyre's West\", containing scenes from the western states. This was published in 1970, selling over 27,000 copies and boosting McIntyre's profile in the United States. \n\nIn the 1970 New Year Honours, McIntyre was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to the arts. His work remained of public interest, with high prices paid throughout the 1970s and 1980s for his paintings. He also continued to produce books; a particularly personal project for McIntyre was \"Kakahi\". Named for the small town in the King Country where he owned a holiday home, the book highlighted themes of conservation and rural landscapes. \"McIntyre's Country\" was published in 1979 and the last of his books was \"Peter McIntyre: War Artist\". This was published in 1981 and returned his war art to the public eye. \n\nAfter journalists made enquiries, it was found that the works executed by the official war artists during the Second World War, and which was the property of the New Zealand Government, had been widely dispersed throughout the country. Many were displayed at Returned Services Associations, regional museums, and government departments without thought given to their care. The poor condition of many works resulted in public criticism being directed towards the nominal custodian of the works, the Department of Internal Affairs. After initially claiming it lacked hanging space for them, it set about centralising the war artist's work to the National Archives. It transpired that of the 160 Mcintyre works in the collection, 40 needed some restoration work.\n\nHe died in Wellington on 11 September 1995, survived by his wife and two children. Earlier in the year, Wellington City Gallery held an exhibition of his war art; over 22,000 people had viewed his work by the time of his death. His work continues to be sought after; an auction held in November 2015 of paintings of farming scenes fetched prices well above of what was expected.\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798425", "title": "Iowa–Iowa State football rivalry", "text": "Iowa–Iowa State football rivalry\n\nThe Iowa–Iowa State football rivalry is an American college football rivalry game between the Iowa State Cyclones and Iowa Hawkeyes. The Cy-Hawk Trophy is awarded to the winner of the game. It is named after the teams' mascots, Cy the Cardinal and Herky the Hawk.\n\nConceived and created as a traveling trophy by the Greater Des Moines Athletic Club in 1976, the trophy was first presented to the winner by Iowa Governor Robert D. Ray in 1977. That game was the first meeting between the two since 1934.\n\nThe trophy design used through the 2010 season featured a football, a running back in the classic stiff-arm pose, and the likenesses of Iowa State's Cy the Cardinal and Iowa's Herky the Hawk. The trophy was replaced after the 2010 game, making Iowa and Iowa State the only schools in the country to sell out a rivalry trophy for corporate sponsorship. Since then the Cy-Hawk trophy makes an annual tour with WHO sportscaster Keith Murphy the week before the game. It remains the recognizable symbol of the contest and, according to Murphy, \"people love it.\" \n\nA new trophy, donated by the Iowa Corn Growers Association, was introduced to the public during the Iowa State Fair on August 19, 2011. A sculpture atop the new trophy depicted a farm family with small children huddled about a bushel basket of corn. Dean Taylor, president of the Association, called it \"a work of art that represents Iowans and their hard work.\" Within hours of its presentation, however, the new trophy was widely ridiculed in newspaper columns and internet postings by the public. Iowa Governor Terry Branstad publicly provided negative feedback, as did retired Iowa football coach Hayden Fry, who said, \"The farmer, family and corn is all wonderful, but I don't really get the relationship to a football game.\"\n\nOn August 23, 2011, Iowa Corn Growers Association CEO Craig Floss announced that the new Cy-Hawk Trophy would be changed as a result of the negative public reaction. Selection of the new trophy would involve public input. A temporary trophy was used for 2011.\n\nWith fan input, the newly, redesigned trophy was unveiled at the end of the 2012 game won by Iowa State featuring mascots of the two universities, a raised football, and corn making up the background.\n\nThe two schools played each other 24 times between 1894 and 1934, before the Cy-Hawk Trophy was established in 1977. The series halted after 1934 after then University of Iowa Athletic Director and head football coach Ossie Solem would not return calls to reschedule the rivalry; the series was restarted in 1977. Of the 67 games in the series played through 2019, 40 of them have been played in Iowa City while just 27 games have been contested in Ames. Through the 2019 season, Iowa has won the last five contests between these rivals. \n"}
{"id": "1798429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798429", "title": "Corella, Bohol", "text": "Corella, Bohol\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLocated northeast of Tagbilaran, it may have been named after a town in the province of Navarre in northern Spain.\n\nCorella is known primarily as the home of the endemic Philippine tarsier, one of the world's smallest primates. The Philippine tarsier sanctuary run by the Philippine Tarsier Foundation, as well as the Research and Development Center, is in Canapnapan, east of the centre of town.\n\nThe people of Corella are predominantly conservative Roman Catholics belonging to the parish of Our Lady of the Village whose feast is celebrated on 27 April.\n\nIts former name was Nugas before it obtained its present name, Corella. It was then a barrio of Baclayon. The adoption of the name Corella was made at the behest of Fr Jose Maria Cabañas del Carmen, then the parish priest of Baclayon and endorsed by Fr Felix Guillen de San Jose, the first Spanish priest. Corella was a name of a village in Navarra, Spain where this town's patroness, Nuestra Señora del Villar, showered miracles.\n\nThe creation of this town was due to the efforts of its inhabitants including Isidoro Ramo, who became its first gobernadorcillo.\n\nThe stone church and the convent were constructed during the tenure of Fr Felix Gullen and completed by later priests, one of them being Fr Dionisio Llorete who also spearheaded the erection of two stone school buildings and the municipal building during the term of the gobernadorcillo, Celedonio Sayon. But the construction of Corella's present concrete church began in 1924 under Fr Pedro Montelbon, the parish priest of Tagbilaran who took over the administration of the Corella parish after the incumbent, Fr Eugenio Desamparados left.\n\nA battle of principles, rights, obligations, and duties raged in the municipality in 1920 between Simeon Sambola, the parish priest and the municipal president Nicanor C. Tocmo who were at loggerheads on the matter of school administration. From the pulpit, Fr Simeon lambasted the municipal administration and condemned the teachings in Corella schools as having originated from the mouth of hell. Enrollment in the school greatly diminished. Only close family friends and relatives of president Tocmo sent their children to school. The local civil administration complained to the provincial and national authorities. After a fact-finding investigation by the Department of Public Instruction whose report was submitted to the Governor-General, Fr Simeon was removed.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation, the area at a distance halfway between Corella and Gaboc was \"no-man's land\". Several civilians were arrested there by the Japanese and executed on the spot. Honorio Butawan, a bolo volunteer, was caught by the enemy, and taken to Tagbilaran never to return. Other civilians of Corella suffered instant death from the Japanese as the latter tried to escape the US army of liberation.\n\nIn October 1944, Capt. Martin Maliwanag, a guerrilla leader under Major Ismael Ingeniero established his headquarters in Corella, making the convent his command post and the primary school building east of the town plaza his detention cell. Several Filipino JCs (Japanese Constabulary) surrendered voluntarily. The first to surrender on 29 October 1944 was Lt. Victorio Sumodabila. He was shot on the spot by Capt. Maliwanag. Four other JCs from Corella who were killed and buried in common grave of Corella were Dandong Lamayo, his brother Fermin Lamayo, Felicisimo Guscal, and his brother-in-law, Celistino Formentera. In all, there were nine Filipino JCs who met their violent deaths in Corella on orders of Capt. Maliwanag, who met his own death when he attacked the Japanese garrison in Gaboc. His body was buried in the same cemetery as his victims. It was Maliwanag's men who captured the puppet Japanese governor Agapito Hontanosas.\n\nDuring the guerrilla period, Corella had four mayors closely succeeding each other:\n\nCorella comprises 8 barangays, all classified as rural:\nFrom 1990, a marked decrease in population is noted. Groups of people migrated to other parts of the country, such as Mindanao, where they founded a new municipality, \"New Corella\".\n\nCorella does not have any major industry. A great majority of the people of the town are engaged in small-scale home businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798430", "title": "Barber Conable", "text": "Barber Conable\n\nBarber Benjamin Conable Jr. (November 2, 1922 – November 30, 2003) was a U.S. Congressman from New York and former President of the World Bank Group.\n\nConable was born in Warsaw, New York on November 2, 1922. Conable was an Eagle Scout and received the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award from the Boy Scouts of America. He graduated from Cornell University in 1942, where he was president of the Quill and Dagger society and a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He then enlisted in the Marines and was sent to the Pacific front in World War II, where he learned to speak Japanese and fought in the Battle of Iwo Jima. After the war, he received his law degree from Cornell University Law School in 1948, where he lived at the Cornell Branch of the Telluride Association, having been admitted to the House as a law student, after an unsuccessful attempt as an undergraduate. He later re-enlisted and fought in the Korean War.\n\nIn 1962, Conable was elected as a Republican to the New York State Senate. After only one term, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1964 from a Rochester-based district. He was reelected nine more times. He was known on both sides of the aisle for his honesty and integrity, at one point being voted by his colleagues the \"most respected\" member of Congress; he refused to accept personal contributions larger than $50. As longtime ranking minority member of the House Ways and Means Committee, one of his signal legislative achievements was a provision in the U.S. tax code that made so-called 401(k) and 403(b) defined-contribution retirement plans possible, and contributions to those plans by both employers and employees tax-deferred, under federal tax law.\n\nA long-time ally of Richard Nixon, Conable broke with him in disgust after the revelations of the Watergate scandal. When the White House released a tape of Nixon instructing his Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman to obstruct the FBI investigation, Conable said it was a \"smoking gun\", a phrase which quickly entered the political folklore.\n\nIn 1980, Conable appeared in Milton Friedman's PBS documentary \"Free to Choose\".\n\nConable retired from the House in 1984. In 1986, President Ronald Reagan appointed him president of the World Bank. His experience as a legislator proved crucial as he persuaded his former colleagues to almost double Congress's appropriations for the bank. He retired in 1991.\n\nIn 1952, Conable married Charlotte Williams, his wife until his death. He died from a staphylococcus infection in 2003, at his winter home in Sarasota, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798432", "title": "Hornby High School", "text": "Hornby High School\n\nHornby High School is a state coeducational secondary school located in the western Christchurch, New Zealand suburb of Hornby. It caters for approximately students from Years 7 to 13 (ages 10 to 18).\n\nThe school opened in February 1975 to serve the growing Hornby area. The permanent classroom blocks were supposed to be ready for the first intake of 240 Form 3 (now Year 9) students, but delays within the Treasury and Ministry of Works saw the completion date pushed back to early 1976. As a temporary solution, the Canterbury Education Board constructed twelve CEBUS relocatable classroom blocks at the eastern end of the school site. Most of the CEBUS classrooms are still present at the school, alongside the permanent S68 classroom blocks typical of 1970s-built New Zealand state secondary schools.\n\nOriginally a Year 9 to 13 secondary school, the school added Years 7 and 8 in January 2014 following the closure of nearby Branston Intermediate School\n\n"}
{"id": "1798443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798443", "title": "Media economics", "text": "Media economics\n\nMedia economics embodies economic theoretical and practical economic questions specific to media of all types. Of particular concern to media economics are the economic policies and practices of media companies and disciplines including journalism and the news industry, film production, entertainment programs, print, broadcast, mobile communications, Internet, advertising and public relations. Deregulation of media, media ownership and concentration, market share, intellectual property rights, competitive economic strategies, company economics, \"media tax\" and other issues are considered parts of the field. Media economics has social, cultural, and economic implications. Regular study of media economic issues began in the 1970s but flourished in the 1980s with the addition of classes on the subject at U.S. and European universities. \"The Journal of Media Economics\" began publishing in 1988, edited by Robert G. Picard, one of the founding fathers of the discipline. Since that time the field of inquiry has flourished and there are now hundreds of universities offering courses and programs in media economics. Other significant figures in the field have included Steven S. Wildman, Alan Albarran, Bruce M. Owen, Ben Compaine, Ghislain Deslandes, Stuart McFadyen, Gillian Doyle, Karl Erik Gustafsson, Lucy Küng, Gregory Ferrell Lowe, Nadine Toussaint Desmoulins, Achour Fenni, Amanda D. Lotz, and Stephen Lacy.\n\nWithin academia, the location of media economics research varies depending upon the tradition and history of the institution. In some universities it is located in schools of business or economics, whereas in others it is located in communication, media or journalism schools (or departments).\n\nThe term \"cultural economics\" is sometimes used as a synonym for media economics but they are not substitutable. Cultural economics includes a wide variety of activities that do not necessarily involve mediated dissemination such as museums, symphonies, operas, and festivals. At times these may cross over into media economic issues, such as when audio or video recordings are made of performances or museum holdings are put on CDs.\n\nThere is no definitive list of every radio and television station in the world. The National Association of Broadcasters cites the estimate from the U.S. C.I.A. World Fact Book, which reports that \"as of January 2000, there are over 21,500 television stations and over 44,000 radio stations.\" (CIA World Fact Book references – Radio, TV)\n\nIn the United States the FCC provides a list of \"Licensed Broadcast Station Totals (Index) 1990 to Present,\" which may be found here. According to the FCC report –\n\n\nIn the United States, a report from the Radio Advertising Bureau (RAB) states that in 2002, radio's revenue reached $19.4 billion, an increase of 5.7% from the $17.7 billion earned in 2001. For additional details see RAB's Radio Fact Book. Total broadcast revenues for 2001 were $54.4 billion, as reported by The Television Advertising Bureau (TVB).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798449", "title": "Raotince", "text": "Raotince\n\nRaotince () is a village located about 10 miles (14 km) northeast from the city of Tetovo in North Macedonia.\n\nThe village of Raotince is one of the oldest in the Polog Valley. It is believed to be settled some time around the early 18th century. Most of the people that settled the village came from other villages in the area surrounding the Polog Valley and from villages high in the Šar mountain. The settlers that came to the village saw Raotince as an important area, because of its quick access of the Vardar River, which runs through the village.\n\nThe village is one of the many villages in North Macedonia to have St. Ilija as the patron saint. The saint's day is celebrated on August 2, and it is the same day that the Ilinden-Preobrazhenie Uprising of 1903.\n"}
{"id": "1798471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798471", "title": "Primary labor market", "text": "Primary labor market\n\nThe primary labor market is a market that generally consists of high-wage paying jobs, social security, and longer-lasting careers, but others define it as jobs that \"require formal education\", but in addition to white collar jobs like teaching, accounting, and the law, it also includes the skilled trades like being a plumber or a photocopy repair technician. It is contrasted by the secondary labor market, which usually consists of low-wage paying jobs, limited mobility within jobs, and temporary careers. The primary and secondary labor markets are intended for division of the standard of jobs within labor (heavy work) services.\n\nThe workforce as a whole in a primary market is motivated to serve their employer because of health benefits, insurance policies, pension wages and job security. The job market here consists mainly of white- and blue-collar jobs. In the primary labor market, the employees are always trying to prove themselves to their employers by portraying their skills and educational credentials.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798478", "title": "Radville", "text": "Radville\n\nRadville is a small valley town in southern Saskatchewan, Canada. A small river, Long Creek, runs through the north end of the town, providing fishing and recreation to the locals. The creek meanders by the east side of the town and then to the south where a second dam is located for the water supply pumphouse.\n\nThe town is in the rural municipality #38 of Laurier (incorporated December 13, 1909). It was incorporated in 1911 after being settled in 1895, named after Conrad Paquin.\n\nRadville has a large proportion of French-speaking people.\n\nOne of the historic buildings in Radville is the local restaurant. The building started as the Bon Ton Barber Shop and the first doctor in Radville, Dr. Joseph P. O'Shea's office, which later became the Radville Cafe, followed with the Paris Cafe, the Boston Cafe, the Lasalle, the Glencoe, the Canadian Cafe, the Radville Family Restaurant, and in 2006, the Radville Family Restaurant II. [Reference: A Community in Blooms Project]. The Canadian Cafe was run by Bob and Judy Lee from 1965 until their retirement in 1996.\n\nOther restaurants that operated in Radville included the local drive-in Hannigan's (c. 1970-1980), and the restaurant converted from the old Radville townhall called the Dustbowl Diner (c. 1980-1981). Jake Wong's cafe operated from about 1920 until the early 1950s when his daughter Lily and son-in-law Tommy Chow took it over. Lily's sister Jean also ran a cafe across the street.\n\nThere was a large pool room, barber shop and bowling alley next door to Wong's cafe.\n\nRadville has had several theatres. The last one, the Oasis Theater, closed its doors in 1977, showing Star Wars as one of its last movies. After standing empty for a few years, the Oasis was bought by local entrepreneur George Hays and converted into the Alley Oops bowling alley. The newspaper South Saskatchewan Star was owned and operated by Oscar Stitt. A few years afterwards, George Hays purchased the local newspaper, the Radville Star, and moved the publication into the same building. The other theatre, owned by Ham Ferris, closed much earlier and was converted into a senior citizens hall in 1972.\n\nThe local pharmacy, the Radville Drug Store, was operated by Ron Zimmers from the late 1960s through to the 2000s. Initially, a pharmacy degree was not required; however as the operations grew, Zimmers worked his education to achieve his pharmacy degree. The first pharmacy was opened by Harry Koch in the early 1920s and was then sold to Vince Kimball in the mid 1950s.\n\nThe Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, originally the Bank of Commerce, was built in the early 1920s and still operates. The Empire Hotel was built in the early 1920s and is still in operation.\n\nThe Catholic school, commonly called the Separate School, is named St. Olivier School. The principal was Ed Borsa in the late 1970s and early 1980s. As the school was located very near the Radville Public School, the children from the two schools would often have soccer matches and other sports events as rivals. There was also the Christian College located on the east side of Long Creek.\n\nThe Radville Public School, a traditional 3-storey cube-shaped red brick building, burned to the ground on January 23, 1977.\n\nChurches in Radville were the United, Anglican, Pentecostal, Church of Christ, Catholic.\n\nThe high school was called the Radville Regional High School. Many students bore the letters of RRHS for the local Rebels team. The stability of certain teachers who had long terms in the school created a well balanced, solid background for graduates in furthering education. Floyd Cousins was a favorite principal during the 1940s and 1950s. The school principal was Charles Haggarty from 1967 until 1983. Other key teachers include Wayne Hurlbert, Miss Lecuyer, Estelle Johnston, Ethel Carlson (English), C.K. Lai (Algebra, Geometry), Richard (Dick) Schmidt (Coach).\n\nEva McNaught, who was wife to the fire chief and drayman Harold, ran Eva's Popcorn stand for many years. Due to the warm long languishing summer nights typical of southern prairie towns, many people stayed out in the evenings and enjoyed the Saskatchewan summer weather.\n\nRadville uses a pumphouse for water treatment and supplying water pressure to its residents. The pumphouse is located on Saskatchewan Highway No. 28 junction into Radville.\nRadville used to be a major hub of activity throughout the 1920s to 1970s with a livery, the CN train and 5 grain elevators. Radville was a Canadian National Railway divisional point. It had a roundhouse with turntable, water tank, sand house, coal dock, ice house, bunkhouse, Roadmaster office, stores, stockyard, loading platform, freight and express service. The Radville railway station still remains though now used as a museum. All of the farm implement manufacturers had dealers, i.e. Massey Harris (Adrian Roy), John Deere, Ford, Case (Haden's). Automobile dealerships included General Motors (MacRobert Motors), Ford, and Chrysler. Claude Delaye operated a blacksmith shop. There were 4 general stores, Jack Seede's, Hussein Shibley's, Joe Carles, and Ham Ferris, Melda Morrissette's dress shop, Tetrault's bakery, Watson's hardware store, Clarke's Electric, appliance store, Credit Union, jeweller, 2 barber shops, dry cleaner (Legault's), 2 lumber yards, McIlrath and Security Lumber, Vennard's locker plant, liquor store, and a law office (George Thompson). This diminished when Highway No. 28 was upgraded in about 1975. With horses virtually gone and replaced by automotives and substantially improved roads, the next largest urban center of Weyburn received more and more of Radville's local regional commerce.\n\nAbout a mile north of the town is a dam on the creek, commonly referred to as the Radville Dam or the Larsen Dam. This water reserve was used as the primary water reservoir for Radville until approximately 1984, at which time the town decided to use deep drilled water wells. The dam is stocked by the wildlife and fisheries department of the government. In the 1970s and the earlier 1980s, the dam was stocked with northern pike (or \"jackfish\") and fresh water perch. Later it was stocked with pickeral (or \"walleye\") and then with trout.\n\nTo the east of the town a small road leads to the local airport and to the old dump grounds. About in 1980, a new landfill was selected several miles away, southwest from the town. A walkway was built in 1994 and named Claffey Blvd, in honor of Vernon Claffey, who was the garbage man for Radville from the late 1930s to 1980s. Claffey provided many old toys that he personally gathered and fixed to the poorer families in Radville.\n\nRadville has an active winter community, featuring a hockey rink with the Radville Nationals hockey team. Like most Canadian prairie communities, the town also has a curling rink.\n\nProfessional hockey player Darcy Verot hails from Radville.\n\nIn the 1980s, Tim Calibaba, son of local businessman Bill Calibaba, formed TWC. He caught the early adoption by Canadians of Mutual Funds and other financial instruments. TWC grew by association and agencies throughout western Canada until it was bought out by Berkshire Investments (Burlington, ON) in 2003 and became Berckshire-TWC Financial Group Inc. In 2007, Manulife Financial purchased Berkshire-TWC. The office continued to operate in Radville as Manualife Financial for a couple of years before being closed.\n\nRadville is home to artist and sculptor Scott Chandler Mcleod. Another prominent artist from Radville is Yvette Moore.\n\nRodney MacDonald, a lawyer who practises and lives in the region, is an environmentalist who provided much support for the groups working against the Raferty Dam project in 1988.\n\nMany famous politicians are from the Radville district. The Websters, and recently Finance Minister Ralph Goodale. Another well-known politician is Roy Bailey (politician), and his brother, Ray Bailey, a founding member of the Western Canadian Concept (WCC) party.\n\n\nThe population of Radville in 2006 was 755, up from 735 in 2001, according to Statistics Canada. Radville is part of the prairie boom town set in Southern Saskatchewan. Many pioneers set up homesteads with the encouragement of the Canadian government in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. At peak population in the early 1960s, Radville had approx 5000 residents. Throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, Radville's population was around 1000 people, and diminishing as better means of transport and lifestyle changes meant fewer people were interested in the small farm community lifestyle.\n\nSaskatchewan Highway 28 and Highway 377 pass through Radville. Nearby, the village of Ceylon is 23 km, and the city of Weyburn is 51 km to the northeast. Other nearby communities include Lake Alma, Minton, Gladmar, Pangman, Ogema, Midale and the Port of Regway. These communities heavily support the Radville economy as it is the largest centre in the area.\n\nMajor urban centers include Regina, which is 148 km to the north, and Moose Jaw, 143 km northwest.\n\nFor those seeking more history, in 1983 The Yesteryears was published.\n"}
{"id": "1798484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798484", "title": "Never Too Far", "text": "Never Too Far\n\n\"Never Too Far\" is a song recorded by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey for her first soundtrack and eighth studio album, \"Glitter\" (2001). It was written and produced by herself and Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. The song was released as the album's second single on October 23, 2001, by Virgin Records America. The song is a mid-tempo ballad which lyrically deals with heartbreak. \"Never Too Far\" was used on the charity single \"Never Too Far/Hero Medley\", which combines the first verse of the song with a re-recorded version of the first verse and bridge of Carey's previous single \"Hero\" (1993).\n\nThe single did not make much impact on the U.S. charts; however, it did reach the top forty in the UK and Australia, as part of a double A-side with \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\". A radio edit of \"Never Too Far\" is release and found as the opening track of the song's release. Carey was unable to film a music video for the single as she was recovering from a breakdown. Instead, a video was created using a scene taken directly from the film \"Glitter\", where Billie Frank (played by Carey) sings the song at Madison Square Garden during a concert. Carey promoted \"Never Too Far/Hero\" medley through live performances at the 2001 Radio Music Awards, her \"A Home For The Holidays With Mariah Carey\" TV special, and 18 years later on her Caution World Tour.\n\nIn April 2001, Carey signed a US$100 million record deal with Virgin Records (EMI Records). Following commencement for \"Glitter\" — her first album under the new label — and the film of same name, Carey embarked on a short promotional campaign for the project. On July 19, 2001, Carey made a surprise appearance on the MTV program \"Total Request Live\" (\"TRL\"). She came out onto the filming stage, pushing an ice cream cart while wearing an oversized shirt. Seemingly anxious and exhilarated, Carey began giving out individual bars of ice cream to fans and guests on the program, while waving to the crowd down below on Times Square, while diverging into a rambling monologue regarding therapy. Carey then walked to Daly's platform and began a striptease, in which she shed her shirt to reveal a tight yellow and green ensemble, leading him to exclaim \"Mariah Carey has lost her mind!\".\n\nFollowing other appearances on which her publicist Cindy Berger said the singer was \"not thinking clearly\", on July 26, she was hospitalized, citing \"extreme exhaustion\" and a \"physical and emotional breakdown\". Following her induction at an un-disclosed hospital in Connecticut, Carey remained hospitalized and under doctor's care for two weeks, followed by an extended absence from the album's promotion. However, her record company had begun promoting \"Never Too Far\" as the second single from the soundtrack, but Carey was not able to promote it due to still recovering from her breakdown. The song was then released on October 23, 2001.\n\nIn the film, Carey's character Billie Frank argues with her boyfriend and producer Dice (Max Beesley) and they break-up. Her emotional pain leads her to solo songwriting. Dice also misses Billie, and also begins writing a song. Billie goes to Dice's apartment in an attempt to reconcile. He was not home, but the music he has written is and Billie realizes they wrote the same song: \"Never Too Far\". She kisses the sheet music, leaving a lipstick imprint, which Dice later discovers. Dice plans a reconciliation, but is killed by Billie's former producer Timothy Walker (Terrence Howard) after Dice did not pay the US$100,000 from their agreement to release Billie from Walker's contract. At Billie's first show at Madison Square Garden, her management and support crew see a report of the murder on television. They wonder if Billie was with him, they see that she is there and has seen the report. Billie onstage commands the band to stop playing \"Loverboy\", tells the crowd never to take someone for granted, and that if you love them, you should tell them, because you might never have the chance to tell them how you really feel. She then starts to sing \"Never Too Far\".\n\n\"Never Too Far\" is a mid-tempo ballad. The song was written and produced by Carey and Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis; it was released as the second single from her first soundtrack album, \"Glitter\" (2001). It incorporates music from several musical instruments, including the piano, guitar and organ. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Music Publishing, the song is set in common time with a moderate tempo of 60 beats per minute. It is composed in the key of C major with Carey's vocal range spanning from the low-note of D to the high-note of Ab. The song's chorus has a basic chord progression of G–G–G/F–Em–G/D–C-G/B–Am. Described as an \"adult-contemporary, slow-jam love song\", the song's lyrics read \"Too painful to talk about it, so I hold it in / So my heart can mend and be brave enough to love again\", speaking of emotions felt by the protagonist in the film. \"Never Too Far\" features \"a bed of synthesized strings, gentle drums and Spanish-style guitar\" as its primary instrumentation, and incorporates violin and keyboard notes prior to the first verse. According to Chuck Taylor from \"Billboard\", Carey sings the lyrics with \"appreciable subtlety, gliding effortlessly\" through the song. It ends with a 15-second note that would \"evoke a satisfied sigh\".\n\nFollowing the weak commercial success of \"Glitter\", Carey's other label, Columbia Records, planned to release a compilation album of her biggest hits, titled \"Greatest Hits\" (2001). As they had one more album to release from Carey under her old contract, they began assembling content for its release. Though still signed to Virgin, Carey composed a charity single in which all proceeds would go towards helping rebuild America, following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Consequently, she re-recorded her 1993 song \"Hero\", and made a medley of it with \"Never Too Far\". The song features a different instrumental introduction, and begins with the first verse and chorus of \"Never Too Far\", and blends into the bridge of \"Hero\". Several writers for the medley are credited, with Carey having written \"Never Too Far\" with Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, and the latter with Walter Afanasieff. Aside from Jam and Lewis, Randy Jackson assisted Carey in the song's production. In an interview with MTV, Carey described the single and its conception:\n\nI started doing different charity events where I did a combination of 'Never Too Far' and 'Hero'. We made it into a medley and put them in the same key and made it work. People responded really well to it. It's been interesting for me, since the events of September 11, the way people have been playing 'Hero' and really even talking to me about 'Never Too Far', 'cause that song is also about loss. I figured that it would be a nice thing to do, to put them both out for Christmas. There's also an unreleased track on the B-side, which is called 'There for Me' which kind of has the same sentiment. The proceeds from 'Never Too Far' and 'Hero' and 'There for Me' are going to go to the Heroes Fund, and it's going to benefit police officers' families, relief workers' families.\n\"Never Too Far\" received positive reviews from critics. \"Billboard\"'s Chuck Taylor gave a positive review for the song, calling it a \"shimmering ballad\" that showcases the singer excelling at what made her a famous: \"singing the hell out of a straight ahead love song free of gimmicks, gymnastics and self-conscious attempts at targeting any particular demographic\"; he also said that \"Never Too Far\" would relieve fans that think Carey had been \"relying more upon samples and guest vocalists lately than melody and artful performing\". Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine called the song another \"syrupy-sweet\" ballad on the album and that it \"harbors over-the-top performances worthy of \"Star Search\" (more than fitting considering the film's '80s-era rags-to-riches storyline)\". Harry Guerin from Raidió Teilifís Éireann wrote that \"Never Too Far\" showcased \"her four octave range but sound[s] roughly like everything else she's committed to tape during her career\". Kara Brown of \"Jezebel\" called it the album's strongest ballad. James Salmon from Dotmusic felt that \"there's not much you can really say. It's a slow number with all the vocal showboating you'd expect from her\". A writer from BET network included the track on their list of \"Mariah Carey Singles That Deserved to Be No. 1 (But Didn't Get There)\", calling it \"an absolute stand out among a slew of songs draped in 80s garb\".\n\n\"Never Too Far\" was never released in the United States. Due to the horrific events surrounding the United States at the time, radio stations began playing the song before its official add date to rotation. It failed to reach \"Billboard\" Hot 100, peaking at number five on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles. It also reached number 17 on the US Adult Contemporary component chart. Worldwide, \"Never Too Far\" was released as a double A-side with \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\", and failed to reach the top-forty in most countries. In the United Kingdom, the release however reached a position of number 32. In contrast, \"Never Too Far/Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" reached numbers 67 and 65 in the Netherlands and Switzerland, respectively. It managed to reach peaks of numbers 36 and 16, in respective countries Australia and Spain. The double A-side single enjoyed moderate success in both the Flemish and Wallonian territories in Belgium, peaking at numbers 4 and 1 respectively on the equivalent of the \"bubbling under\" charts, registering songs just below the main charts. As a solo single, \"Never Too Far\" performed weakly in Germany reaching number 97 on the German Singles Chart, while in Sweden it peaked at number 56.\n\nCarey was unable to film an accompanying music video for the single; at the time of its release, she was recovering from a physical and emotional breakdown that left her hospitalized in August 2001, and caused her to cancel all public appearances to promote \"Glitter\". She said, \"When I was asked about the video I said, 'I can't do it today'. And nobody could accept that answer. And that's when I started to get mad. I was, like, look, I am too fatigued. I'm overly-tired, I can't do it as a human being. And nobody was hearing those last two words — human being. They were used to the Mariah that always says, 'Come on, let's fight, let's go'. They just weren't used to me ever saying no. I never said no before\". Instead, a video was created using a scene taken directly from the film, where Billie Frank (played by Carey) sings the song at Madison Square Garden during her first sold-out concert. Frank's performance of the song in the film omits its entire second verse, and the song's development runs in parallel with the film's love story.\n\nThough having not promoted \"Never Too Far\" during the time of its release, Carey embarked on a short promotional campaign for \"Never Too Far/Hero\" medley, as well as charity benefits for the September 11 attacks victims. At the 2001 Radio Music Awards, Carey made her second public appearance following her breakdown, the first being a performance of \"Hero\" at the \"\" telethon on September 21, 2001. Entering the stage in a long black evening gown, Carey performed the medley live, followed by a standing ovation from the audience. On October 21, 2001, a benefit titled was held at Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium in Washington, D.C., accompanied by the charity single \"What More Can I Give\", in which Carey participated. Carey donned a black open-back dress with a plunging neckline, and performed \"Never Too Far/Hero\", followed by a live rendition of \"What More Can I Give\".\n\nOn November 16, 2001, Carey taped a special titled \"A Home For The Holidays With Mariah Carey\", which aired on December 21 of that same year. The special featured additional performances by Destiny's Child, Josh Groban, Enrique Iglesias and Mandy Moore. Carey opened the special, with a performance of \"Never Too Far/Hero\" while wearing a form-fitting red evening gown. Aside from the medley, Carey performed \"I'll Be There\" and \"Reflections (Care Enough)\", also a single from \"Glitter\". 18 years later, Carey included \"Never Too Far\" as part of the #JusticeForGlitter medley on her Caution World Tour.\n\nEuropean CD single\n\nAustralian/European CD maxi-single\n\nCredits for \"Glitter\" adapted from the album's liner notes.\n"}
{"id": "1798486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798486", "title": "Golden Goose", "text": "Golden Goose\n\n\"The Golden Goose\" () is a fairy tale collected by the Brothers Grimm (KHM 64). It is a tale of Aarne-Thompson type 571 ('All Stick Together'), with an episode of type 513B ('The Land and Water Ship').\n\nThe hero is the youngest of three brothers, given the nickname Simpleton. His eldest brother is sent into the forest to chop wood, fortified with a rich cake and a bottle of wine. He meets a little gray man who begs a morsel to eat and a swallow of wine but is rebuffed. The eldest brother injures his arm felling a tree and is taken home. The second brother meets a similar fate. Simpleton, sent out with a burned biscuit cooked in the ashes of the hearth and soured beer, is generous with the little old man and is rewarded with a golden goose. The goose has been discovered within the roots of the tree chosen by the little gray man and felled by Simpleton.\n\nSimpleton takes The Golden Goose to the inn. Simpleton takes the Golden Goose to market.\nWith the goose under his arm, Simpleton heads for an inn where as soon as his back is turned, the innkeeper's daughter attempts to pluck just one of the feathers of pure gold and is stuck fast. Her sister comes to help her and is stuck fast too. The youngest daughter is determined not to be left out of the riches, grabs the sisters aprons and she ends up stuck to the second. Simpleton makes his way to the castle and each person who attempts to interfere is joined to the unwilling parade ranging from the parson, his sexton, and two laborers.\n\nIn the castle lives the King with the Princess who has never smiled. The king offers the hand of the princess to anyone who succeeds in making her laugh. The despondent Princess, sitting by the window and glimpsing the parade staggering after Simpleton and his golden goose, laughs so hard she eventually cries. Some versions include an additional three trials. Simpleton succeeds in all with the help of his little gold friend and finally wins the princess's hand in marriage.\n\nThe Buddha (Bodhisatta) was born, grew up, and got married. During his life, he was a member of the Hindu caste group of hereditary priests and scholars. He also had three daughters named Nanda, Nandavati, and Sundarinanda. When he died, he was reincarnated as a golden goose with golden feathers, and after discovering his wife and daughters were being taken care of by others, he decided to give them some of his feathers; he hoped the feathers would help them live comfortably.\n\nOver time, he brought them more feathers to sell, and they were living in a continuous state of comfort and peace; until one day, when his wife became greedy and decided to formulate a plan to steal all of his feathers for money. His daughters did not like the idea of stealing his feathers, so they did not agree to the idea. Alas, the next time the golden goose came back, his wife plucked all of his feathers. When she did this, the feathers immediately changed from golden feathers to white crane feathers. The wife waited for the golden feathers to grow back, but they never did; they grew back white, and the goose flew away, never to return again.\n\nThe hero is the youngest of three brothers, given the nickname \"Dummling\" (Simpleton). His eldest brother is sent into the forest to chop wood (the Task), fortified with a rich cake and a bottle of wine. He meets a little gray man (the Disguised Helper) who begs a morsel to eat and a swallow of ale but is rebuffed. The eldest brother meets an accident and is taken home. The second brother meets a similar fate. Dummling, sent out with a biscuit cooked in the ashes of the hearth and soured beer, is generous with the little old man and is rewarded with a golden goose (the Fairy Gift).\n\nThe goose has been discovered within the roots of the tree chosen by the little gray man and felled by Dummling. Tellers of this tale could not have been aware of the imprisonment of Osiris. For archaic Greek spirits within oak trees, see Dryads.\n\nWith the goose under his arm, Dummling heads for an inn, where, as soon as his back is turned, the innkeeper's daughter attempts to pluck just one of the feathers of pure gold, and is stuck fast (Greed A-T Type 68A; Justice is Served). Her sister, coming to help her, is stuck fast too. And the youngest (Least of Three), determined not to be left out of the riches, is stuck to the second. Dummling makes his way to the castle, and each person who attempts to interfere is joined to the unwilling parade: the parson, his sexton, and two laborers.\n\nIn the castle lives the king with the Princess (the Princess Prize) who has never laughed. But the despondent Princess, sitting by the window and glimpsing the parade staggering after Dummling and his golden goose, laughs until she cries. Dummling, after three more impossible trials including finding a ship that sails on land and sea, sometimes inserted in the tale, in each of which he is assisted by the little gray man, wins the Princess and everyone lives happily ever after.\n\n\"The Golden Goose\" falls in Aarne-Thompson Type 571, \"All Stick Together\"; the appended episode is of A-T Type 513B, \"The Land-and-Water Ship\".\n\nFolklorist D. L. Ashliman has pointed out other versions of a Golden Fowl theme: The Goose That Laid the Golden Eggs (Aesop); The Golden Mallard (from the \"Jataka\" stories of the Buddha's former births); the Huma bird (Persia).\n\nA musical version of \"The Golden Goose\", written by Dieter Stegmann and Alexander S. Bermange was presented at the Amphitheater Park Schloss Philippsruhe, Hanau, Germany as part of the Brothers Grimm Festival in 2006. It was also featured as an episode of the PC game \"American McGee's Grimm\" where the goose is 10 times its size and its victims have their bodies completely stuck to the goose rather than falling in a conga line as in the story.\n\n\nBabbitt, E.C. (Ed.). (1922). \"More Jataka Tales\". New York, NY: D. Appleton-Century Company.\n"}
{"id": "1798487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798487", "title": "San Francisco Public Library", "text": "San Francisco Public Library\n\nThe San Francisco Public Library is the public library system of the city of San Francisco. The Main Library is located at Civic Center, at 100 Larkin Street. The library system has won several awards, such as \"Library Journal\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Library of the Year award in 2018. The library is well-funded due to the city's dedicated Library Preservation Fund that was established by a 1994 ballot measure, which was subsequently renewed until 2022 by a ballot measure in 2007.\n\nIn August 1877 a residents' meeting was called by state senator George H. Rogers and Andrew Smith Hallidie who advocated the creation of a free public library for San Francisco. A board of trustees for the Library was created in 1878 through the Free Library Act, signed by Governor of California William Irwin on March 18, which also created a property tax to fund the Library project. The San Francisco Public Library (then known as the San Francisco Free Library) opened on June 7, 1879 at Pacific Hall on Bush Street at Kearny Street and hired Albert Hart as the first librarian. In 1888 the Library moved to the Larkin Street wing of City Hall at Civic Center. The first three branches opened from 1888 to 1889, in the Mission, in North Beach, and in Potrero Hill. In 1889 the Library became a Federal depository by nomination of Senator George Hearst.\n\nIn 1905, architect Daniel Burnham presented his plans for a new Civic Center for San Francisco, including a new library building. These plans were put on hold after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, which destroyed about 140,000 volumes, nearly 80% of its holdings. The library moved to temporary quarters while a new building was designed and built. In 1917, the new main library building, designed by George W. Kelham, opened in the Civic Center. Ten major murals by California Tonalist Gottardo Piazzoni were installed in 1931–1932; four more were completed in 1945, but left uninstalled until the 1970s.\n\nIn 1986, a task force was set up to complete the design of the Civic Center, including the use of Marshall Square, next to the main library at the time, for a new main library. The building was completed in 1995 and opened a year later on April 18, 1996. The old main library, which was damaged in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, was rebuilt as the new Asian Art Museum. The Piazzoni murals moved to the de Young Museum in 1999.\n\nIn 2018 \"Library Journal\" awarded it the Library of the Year award.\n\nIn March 2019, the San Francisco Public Library Commission voted to remove standing library fines and completely wipe out future fines because the fines serve as an impediment to access for community patrons who would otherwise use and visit one of San Francisco's twenty-seven public libraries. The vote still needs to be approved by a Board of Supervisors and the mayor of San Francisco, Mayor London Breed is supportive of this action.\n\nIn addition to the Main Library, the San Francisco Public Library has 27 branch libraries.\n\n\n\nIn 1930, San Francisco voters approved a charter amendment to increase taxes to fund the construction of the Anza Branch Library. Using the site of the old Lafayette School, architect John W. Reid, Jr. designed and landscaped the new branch building. The new branch was dedicated on April 10, 1932, with 11,823 new books on the shelves. Total cost for the building and its furnishings was $57,117.29. Anza Branch Library was the 17th branch established in the San Francisco Public Library system. The branch closed temporarily for renovation in May 2009. The Anza Branch reopened on Saturday June 18, 2011.\n\nThe new Bayview Library opened February 23, 2013. The original Bayview/Anna E. Waden Branch Library was opened as a storefront facility in 1927. It was the 13th branch in the San Francisco Public Library system, replacing a \"library station\" that had been established in 1921. In 1969, a red brick building was built on the corner of the 3rd Street and Revere Avenue in the Bayview/Hunters Point district with a bequest from Anna E. Waden, a clerical employee of the City of San Francisco. Miss Waden's gift of $185,700 paid for the development of this cooperative community project. The building was completed in February 1969, and the formal dedication took place on July 12, 1969. The architect was John S. Bolles & Associates and the contractor was Nibbi Brothers. The façade included a sculpture by Jacques Overhoff.\n\nThe Bernal Heights Renovation was completed on January 30, 2010. A “library deposit station” was established in 1920 at 303 Cortland Avenue. As the neighborhood and library grew, it was moved, in 1936, to 324 Cortland. When that proved inadequate the neighbors lobbied for a new building. The one floor branch library at 500 Cortland, was the 21st in the system and built on the site of the original Bernal School at a cost of $94,600. It was designed by Frederick H. Meyer, one of the most prolific and versatile architects in San Francisco at the turn of the 20th century, funded by the Work Projects Administration and dedicated on October 21, 1940.\n\nChinatown Branch Library, built in 1921 by architect G. Albert Lansburgh is a Carnegie library originally named the North Beach Branch. It is the third branch in the system. Located in Chinatown on Powell Street between Washington and Jackson, the name was changed in 1958 to more accurately reflect the community served. In 1972, the Chinese language, and the Chinese American Interest collections were started in response to the needs and interests of the Chinatown community. In 1991, public and private funds were obtained for a major renovation and expansion of the Chinatown Branch Library. The branch was seismically retrofitted and expanded to twice its original size with a community meeting room and story-room available to use for programs and special events. The Grand Reopening of the Chinatown Branch Library was held on June 15, 1996.\n\nThe Eureka Valley Renovation was completed on October 24, 2009. The first branch building was the second branch in the system and opened on January 2, 1902. It was named the McCreery Branch in honor of Andrew McCreery who donated the land and paid for construction. It was damaged in the Daly City earthquake of 1957 and demolished. The site was used to construct a new building designed by Appleton and Wolford at a cost of $192,335 and opened on December 20, 1961. It was named the Eureka Valley Branch. In 1981 the Library Commission officially changed the name of the branch to Eureka Valley/Harvey Milk Memorial Branch Library to honor Harvey Milk, the first openly gay man to be elected to public office in California. Harvey Milk served as a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors until he was assassinated along with Mayor George Moscone on November 27, 1978. In 2006 the City honored José Sarria, the first openly gay man to run for Supervisor (in 1961) by renaming the section of 16th Street adjacent to the branch as José Sarria Court. José Sarria is best known for founding the Imperial Court System, one of the cornerstones of the GLBT community.\n\nThe Excelsior Branch Library was the 10th branch established in the San Francisco Public Library system. Initially a \"library station\", the first branch library was installed in rental quarters at 7 Bauer Street. In 1925 the branch was located on Ocean Avenue and later at 4465 Mission Street. The current building at 4400 Mission Street was opened to the public October 1, 1967. The branch was designed by architects Appleton and Wolfard and built for $248,000. The Excelsior Branch was the first to be renovated under the Branch Library Improvement Program and reopened on July 8, 2005.\n\nGlen Park Branch Library first opened in January 1927, at 700 Bosworth Street. The branch was located at that site for almost 38 years, until the building that housed it was demolished during construction of Interstate 280. Glen Park Branch was then housed in several different locations over the course of 42 years until a multiuse building was constructed in the neighborhood at 2825 Diamond Street. Part of the new building was designated just for the library. The branch opened on October 13, 2007 and became the sixth branch to be renovated through the Branch Library Improvement Program.\n\nIn June 1917, to serve residents of the growing Golden Gate Valley, Cow Hollow, and Marina neighborhoods, construction of the Golden Gate Valley Branch Library was begun at a site on the southwest corner of Green and Octavia Streets that had been purchased by the City for $7,500. The resulting brick and terra cotta Beaux-Arts structure was designed in the shape of a basilica by local architect Ernest Coxhead. Though Carnegie grant funds paid for the building, City funds were used for the furnishings. The total cost of the building and furnishings came to $43,000, and on May 5, 1918, the branch was opened to the public. Golden Gate Valley Branch was the ninth branch established in the San Francisco Public Library system.\n\nThe new Ingleside Branch opened on September 12, 2009.\nIngleside Branch, the 11th in the system, opened in 1925. The neighborhood was served by \"library station\" at several locations, including 422 Holloway Avenue, 1612 Ocean Avenue and 387 Ashton Avenue. On May 30, 2001 the library moved to a leased facility—the former Bank of America building, at 1649 Ocean (at Faxon). The eagerly anticipated new branch building at 1298 Ocean Avenue (at Plymouth) opened in 2009.\n\nThe Richmond Renovation was completed on May 16, 2009. Richmond/Senator Milton Marks Branch was the fourth branch established within the San Francisco Public Library system. The first location of the branch, in 1892, was at 809 Point Lobos Avenue (now Geary Boulevard) and Parker Avenue. In 1914 a new Richmond Branch opened at the current location, the first library building in San Francisco constructed with Andrew Carnegie grant funds. In December 2000, the San Francisco Landmarks Board nominated Richmond Branch Library for designation as a city landmark. Funded by both a City bond measure and $6 million in Proposition 14 State bond funds, a newly renovated, seismically safe, accessible and technologically updated building opened in 2009.\n\nThe San Francisco City Library offers a \"homeless and poverty outreach library team\" with the help of the Department of Public Health that helps find housing and other services for homeless patrons who set up camp among the stacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798492", "title": "Claveria, Cagayan", "text": "Claveria, Cagayan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. It was located directly south of Taiwan\nvia Bashi Channel to Luzon Strait and north of Luzon Island.\n\nClaveria is politically subdivided into 41 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Claveria, Cagayan, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "1798496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798496", "title": "Giuseppe Bossi", "text": "Giuseppe Bossi\n\nGiuseppe Bossi (11 August 1777 – 9 November 1815) was an Italian painter, arts administrator and writer on art. He ranks among the foremost figures of Neoclassical culture in Lombardy, along with Ugo Foscolo, Giuseppe Parini, Andrea Appiani or Manzoni.\n\nHe was born in the town of Busto Arsizio, near Milan. He was educated at the college of Monza; and his early fondness for drawing was fostered by the director of the college. He then studied at the Brera Academy of Fine Arts at Milan, and spent the years 1795–1801 in Rome, where he drew Roman remains and honed his skills in drawing anatomy at the morgue of a hospital and formed an intimate friendship with Canova, who made a portrait bust of Bossi . He met Jacques-Louis David in Lyon in 1802, though his own style employed a less rigorously classicizing technique.\n\nOn his return to Milan he fell in with the circle of progressive young artists that formed the \"Cameretta Portiana\" He became assistant secretary, and then secretary (1802–1807) of the Brera Academy, whose collection of paintings, the \"Pinacoteca\" he essentially founded. In 1804, in conjunction with Barnabo Oriani, he drew up revised organizational rules for the three academies of art of Bologna, Venice and Milan, which lent weight to the need for public collections of great examples of the arts, which were being supplied from the dissolved monasteries and secularized churches of Lombardy, under Napoleonic administration. He was rewarded with the Order of the Iron Crown. On the occasion of the visit of Napoleon to Milan in 1805, Bossi exhibited at the Pinacoteca a drawing of the \"Last Judgment\" of Michelangelo, and paintings representing Aurora and Night, Oedipus and Creon, and the Italian Parnassus.\n\nBy command of prince Eugène de Beauharnais, viceroy of Italy, Bossi undertook to make a copy of \"The Last Supper\" of Leonardo da Vinci, then almost obliterated, for the purpose of getting it rendered in mosaic. The drawing was made from the remains of the original with the aid of copies and the best prints. The mosaic, 9.18 m in length, was executed by the Roman mosaicist Giacomo Raffaelli, and was placed in the Minoritenkirche, Vienna. Bossi made another copy in oil, which was placed in the Pinacoteca Brera. The Brera Academy owed to him its fine collection of casts of great works of sculpture acquired at Paris, Rome and Florence. For himself, Bossi collected books, drawings, prints, paintings, coins, sculptures, and antiquities.\n\nBossi devoted a large part of his life to the study of the works of Leonardo, whose drawing manner he imitated accurately enough for his productions to have passed as Leonardos. and his last work was a series of drawings in monochrome representing incidents in the life of that great master. He left unfinished a large cartoon in black chalk of the Dead Christ in the bosom of Mary, with John and the Magdalene. In 1810 he published a special work in large quarto, entitled \"Del Cenacolo di Leonardo da Vinci\", which had the merit of greatly interesting Goethe, who shared Bossi's urgent dream of saving Leonardo's fresco.\n\nBossi's other publications were \"Delle Opinioni di Leonardo intorno alla simmetria de corpi umani\" (1811), and \"Del Tipo dell'arte della pittura\" (1816). His diary, 1807–1815, is a useful guide to the official artistic life of Napoleonic Milan.\n\nBossi died at his home in via S. Maria Valle, Milan. A monument by Canova was erected to his memory in the Biblioteca Ambrosiana, and a bust was placed in the Brera.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798497", "title": "Cinergy", "text": "Cinergy\n\nCinergy Corp. ( ) was an energy company based in Cincinnati, Ohio, United States, from 1994 to 2006. Its name is a play on the words \"synergy\", \"energy\", and \"Cincinnati\".\n\nCinergy was created on October 24, 1994, from the merger of the Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company (CG&E) and Kentucky subsidiary Union Light, Heat & Power (ULH&P) with Plainfield, Indiana–based PSI Energy (Public Service Indiana).\n\nUnder its various operating names, the company operated a Holiday Model Train Display that has attracted over 9 million visitors since the event's inception in 1946. The authentic display measures long and imitates an O gauge, in which a quarter-inch on the model is equivalent to one foot on a real train.\n\nIn 1996, Riverfront Stadium in Downtown Cincinnati was renamed Cinergy Field in a sponsorship deal with Cinergy. The stadium was demolished by implosion in December 2002 to make way for Great American Ballpark.\n\nIn 2005, Cinergy announced a friendly acquisition by the larger Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke Energy. The acquisition was completed on April 3, 2006. The combined company retains the Duke Energy name. Until the acquisition, Cinergy still operated under the names of the three local utilities (e.g., Cinergy/CG&E in Cincinnati); since the acquisition, the names of the three former Cinergy utilities and Duke Power, the former Duke Energy utility subsidiary, have been phased out, although signs bearing the former logos still remain at some substations. Duke, in partnership with railway company CSX, continued to host the annual train display in Cinergy's former headquarters until 2011, when the display was donated to the Cincinnati Museum Center at Union Terminal.\n\nIn May 2006, Cinergy was fingered as a key contributor to major pollution in the American Midwest, prompting the New York State government to sue the company and forcing the company to install modern pollution control equipment. The Ontario government, across the border in Canada, followed suit at the request of New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer.\n\nResearchers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst have identified Cinergy as the 49th-largest corporate producer of air pollution in the United States, with roughly 29 million pounds of toxic chemicals released annually into the air. Major pollutants indicated by the study include sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, chromium compounds, and manganese compounds. \n"}
{"id": "1798504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798504", "title": "The Plague That Makes Your Booty Move...It's the Infectious Grooves", "text": "The Plague That Makes Your Booty Move...It's the Infectious Grooves\n\nThe Plague That Makes Your Booty Move... It's the Infectious Grooves is the debut album by Infectious Grooves, released in 1991. The song \"Therapy\" featured vocals from Ozzy Osbourne. The album introduces the character Sarsippius. \n\nSome of the songs received airplay on MTV, including \"Therapy\" and \"Punk It Up\". Steve Huey from Allmusic praised the album, calling it \"an unabashed good-time party record\". The album charted at 198 on the Billboard 200 and 6 on the Billboard Heatseekers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798512", "title": "SuperPower 2", "text": "SuperPower 2\n\nSuperPower 2 is a real-time strategy wargame developed by Canadian based GolemLabs and published by DreamCatcher Interactive in 2004, following \"SuperPower\". It was released between October 11 and November 19, 2004 in North America and Europe, respectively. On April 18, 2014, Nordic Games officially released \"SuperPower 2\" on the Steam Store.\n\nPlayers may join a game as any of the 193 nations recognized by the United Nations at the time of its development. All standard games start in the year 2001, with the player taking control of their nation. They then must work toward their predefined goals, such as achieving world peace, balancing your nation's resources, or conquering the world, or, if they did not set any predefined goals, they have the opportunity to work toward developing their nation's infrastructure, increasing their military strength through new unit designs and development, and encouraging the economic and cultural growth of their nation.\n\nAny nation not controlled by a player is considered an AI nation. If there are predefined objectives, the player will attempt to reach this objective to win the game. The AI will have their own objectives, which they will try to reach as well. If and when the player and the AI have conflicting goals, it is up to the player, and occasionally the AI, to decide if diplomacy is the way to go, or if war is the answer to their problems.\n\nBecause \"SuperPower 2\" is a real-time game, there is no preset end date. This means that a single game can, in theory, run indefinitely.\n\n\"SuperPower 2\" was released in English, French, German, Spanish, Korean, Chinese and Russian.\n\n\nPolitical sphere consists of all political activity, domestic and international, of the selected nation. This sphere allows players to see (and modify if own nation is selected) internal laws, government type, and diplomatic agreements.\n\nThe Military sphere consists of all military and covert operations. This sphere allows players to buy, sell, build, train, deploy, disband a variety of military units. It also allows players to train intelligence cells and conduct covert warfare. In addition, strategic warfare is controlled from this sphere.\n\nStrategic warfare consists of nuclear missiles being launched from land based locations, or from submarines. Nuclear warfare is devastating for both the attacker and the victim. When a nuclear missile is launched and detonates in another nation, relations with nations around the world decline, depending on the importance of the nation attacked. The attacker's nation also becomes less stable, increasing chances of a revolution.\n\nThe economic sphere consists of all financial activity. From this sphere player can view (and control if the selected nation is the same as the player's) income and expenses as well as trade and taxes. Players can set national interest rates, income tax levels, tariffs, and spending levels in this sphere. Players can also nationalize or privatize portions of their economy. This is also where the \"Autarky\" bug does most damage because in the game trade is almost always the most income generating source and when the bug sets in, this well of wealth inevitably dries up when no other nations buy your goods. However, playing country with high levels of raw resources like South Africa with precious metals, seems to not fall victim to the bug as quickly as countries relying on services and agriculture. Also, by invading nearby countries followed by annexation and high levels of taxes can also stave off autarky. At this point however, convincing the rest of the world not to invade is a bigger problem.\n\nAlthough slightly improved over the original \"SuperPower\", the sequel received \"mixed\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\nMany critics referred to the game as highly ambitious but critically flawed. One of the most positive reviews, from GameZone, said that \"The number of options, the good graphics for the globe and almost limitless gameplay adds up a game that is worthy of United Nations attention.\"\n\nHowever, many high-profile gaming publications panned the game, with common criticisms including frequent crashes, a poorly designed user interface, features that were either not implemented or apparently ineffective, and frequent implausible, nonsensical, and unexplained events occurring during the game (such as Poland declaring war on Burkina Faso for unclear reasons). A reviewer for GameSpy described \"SuperPower 2\" as \"a bunch of pointless hand-waving in a half-hearted attempt to pawn off a ponderous spreadsheet as a game\", also stating that \"...because the game is so devoid of personality, it's not even engaging as a way of experimenting with nightmare scenarios. There's nothing satisfying about taking control of the U.S. and changing it to a military dictatorship without freedom of speech or women's suffrage, only to see your political standing inch to the right and maybe your approval rating dip for a while.\" IGN was also critical of the game, giving it a score of 4.5 out of 10 and stating, among other things, that \"The art of international war itself is conducted here according to principles that would make Sun Tzu burn his book and restart life as a caterer.\" The game also features plenty of mods to choose from which change and edit the game play to specific real time or fictional settings.\n\nAfter nearly 10 years from the original release date, the game was released on the PC game distribution platform Steam on April 18, 2014, after a successful Steam Greenlight campaign. The Steam version features updated code and patches for bugs that were long neglected in the older version. However, this version also came with its share of problems, such as fullscreen mode not being an option, and the updated code breaking user-made modifications from the older version. The former was fixed however. Steam achievements were also added, as well as a new authentication system and server browser, which replaced GameSpy, its former server browser service that discontinued the game earlier in the year.\n\nRemastered DRM-free version of the game was released on the PC game distribution platform GOG.com on August 13, 2015 with a 4 day -50% launch discount. Game is sold with additional manual, design document, concept arts and team photographs. Much like Steam version it lacked full screen mode. Remastering included support for widescreen resolutions, new multiplayer matchmaking with modified multiplayer user interface, and an updated source code to offer support for modern operating systems. Initial reviews were mixed.\n\nAfter playing for a long period (the exact amount varies from game to game), a bug called Autarky sets in. The Autarky bug will always happen if the game is going on for a long period. It makes it nearly impossible for a nation to trade because everyone has a surplus of many of the items they trade. This causes nations to begin to lose money, since they can no longer make money from trade. While in most cases the bug eventually occurs, the use of extensive measures within player controlled countries- such as explosive population growth manipulation, severe limiting of human development and minimal infrastructures and telecommunications development- can maintain a permanent, large, and increasing resource deficit, which results in permanent importing for the player country, and massive export growth for virtually all other countries. With extreme population manipulation through the building and canceling of large numbers of soldiers while paused, it is possible to sustain a pan-global computer nation export economy with one underdeveloped, vastly overpopulated nation.\n\nThere are several patches made by the modding community fixing bugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798513", "title": "IEC 61131-3", "text": "IEC 61131-3\n\nPart 3 of \"IEC 61131\" deals with basic software architecture and programming languages of the control program within PLC. It defines three graphical and two textual programming language standards:\n\n\n\nVariable attributes: RETAIN, CONSTANT, AT\n\n\n\n\n\nTom Mejer Antonsen, \"PLC Controls with Structured Text (ST), 2018, , \n\n"}
{"id": "1798518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798518", "title": "Falacer", "text": "Falacer\n\nFalacer, or more fully \"dīvus pater falacer\", was an ancient Italic god, according to Varro. Hartung is inclined to consider him an epithet of Jupiter, since \"falandum\", according to Festus, was the Etruscan name for \"heaven.\"\n\nAlthough his origin is obscure, he was at one time considered important enough to have his own flamen.\n\nHis name may appear in the name of the city of Falacrine ( or ). The name also has a correlation with Falerii and the Falisci, and so it has been suggested that Falacer may have been the eponymous ancestor of these ancient tribes.\n"}
{"id": "1798531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798531", "title": "Suman Kalyanpur", "text": "Suman Kalyanpur\n\nSuman Kalyanpur (born Suman Hemmady; 28 January 1937) is an Indian playback singer. One of the best-known and most respected playback singers in India. Many people believe that she could not reach the stature and position which her talent really warranted, in spite of having all the mandatory characteristics required to make a mark in the field of playback singing like great knowledge of classical music, a melodious voice and a wide range.\n\nHer voice was often mistaken to be that of Lata Mangeshkar. Suman Kalyanpur's career started in 1954 and was very popular singer in the 1960s and 1970s. She recorded songs for movies in several languages besides Hindi, Marathi, Assamese, Gujarati, Kannada, Bhojpuri, Rajasthani, Bengali, Oriya and Punjabi. She is considered among the popular singers of her prime time and golden era of Hindi film music, along with Mohammed Rafi, Lata Mangeshkar, Mukesh, Geeta Dutt, Asha Bhosle, Hemant Kumar, Talat Mahmood, Kishore Kumar, Manna Dey, Mahendra Kapoor and Shamshad Begum. She has sung a total of 857 Hindi songs.\n\nSuman Kalyanpur was born Suman Hemmady on 28 January 1937 in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Suman Kalyanpur's father Shankar Rao Hemadi hailed from an elite Saraswat Brahmin family belonging to Mangalore, Karnataka. Hemmady is a village in Kundapur Taluk of Udupi District, Karnataka. He served on a top post in the Central Bank of India and was posted to Dhaka (now Bangladesh) for a very long period. Apart from father and mother Seeta Hemmady, there were 5 daughters and one son in the family with Suman being the eldest among her siblings. In 1943, her family moved to Mumbai, where she received her musical training.\n\nSuman had always been interested in painting and music. After completing schooling from Mumbai’s famed St. Columba High School, she got admission in the prestigious Sir J. J. School of Arts for further studies in painting. Simultaneously, she started learning classical vocal from Pune's Prabhat Films' music director and a close family friend, Pandit Keshav Rao Bhole. According to Suman, initially singing was just hobby to her but gradually her interest in music increased and she started learning it professionally from Ustad Khan, Abdul Rehman Khan and Guruji Master Navrang.\n\nAccording to Suman, \n\nImmediately after the film ‘'Mangu’', Suman sang 5 songs under the baton of composer Naushad for the film \"Darwaza\" (1954), which was produced by Ismat Chugtai and directed by Shahid Lateef. Since ‘'Darwaza’' released first, it is generally believed to be Suman Kalyanpur's first Hindi film. In the same year (1954), Suman sang the film version of O.P.Nayyar’s hit ensemble song \"Mohabbat Kar Lo Ji Bhar Lo Aji Kisne Roka Hai\" with Mohammed Rafi and Geeta Dutt for the film \"Aar Paar\". According to Suman, she had a couple of solo lines to sing and her services were used, more, as a chorus singer in this song. This proved to be the only song she ever sang for O.P. Nayyar.\n\nSuman Kalyanpur's first film song was a duet with Talat Mahmood in \"Darwaza\" (1954). Talat Mahmood heard Kalyanpur singing in a musical concert and was highly impressed by her singing. A rank newcomer, her career hit the big league when Talat agreed to sing the duet with her, making the film industry sit up and take notice of her.\n\nShe sang for the movie, \"Mangu\" (1954), \"Koi Pukare Dheere Se Tujhe\". Kalyanpur provided playback singing for \"Miyan Bibi Razi\" (1960), \"Baat Ek Raat Ki\" (1962), \"Dil Ek Mandir\" (1963), \"Dil Hi To Hai\" (1963), \"Shagoon\" (1964), \"Jahan Ara\" (1964), \"Sanjh Aur Savera\" (1964), \"Noor Jehan\" (1967), \"Saathi\" (1968) and \"Pakeezah\" (1971). She sang for composers Shankar Jaikishan, Roshan, Madan Mohan, S. D. Burman, N Datta, Hemant Kumar, Chitragupta, Naushad, S. N. Tripathi, Ghulam Mohammed, Kalyanji Anandji and Laxmikant-Pyarelal singing the most songs for the first two in the list. She has sung over 740 movie and non-movie songs. She sang over 140 duets with Rafi in the 1960s.\n\nSuman's first song in Marathi was the super-hit \"Bhaatuklichaa Khel Maandila\" for Vasant Prabhu, for the film \"Pasant Aahe Mulgi\". After that she never looked back for over 20 years. Putra Vhawa Aisaa, Ekti, Manini and Annapoorna were but a few of her memorable films. But even outside films, her hits are legion and include over 50 timeless gems of Marathi films, bhavgeet and bhaktigeet.\n\nKalyanpur sang with Lata Mangeshkar the duet \"Kabhi Aaj, Kabhi Kal, Kabhi Parson\" under the direction of composer Hemant Kumar. She recorded some popular duets with male singers Mohammed Rafi, Manna Dey, Mukesh, Talat Mahmood, and Hemant Kumar. Some of her memorable duets with Rafi are \"Aajkal Tere Mere Pyaar Ke Charche\", \"Na Na Karte Pyaar\", \"Tumse O Hasina\", \"Rahen Na Rahen Hum\", \"Parbaton Ke Pedon Par Shaam Ka Basera He\", \"Yeh Parbaton Ke Daayare\", \"Ajahuna Aye Balama\", \"Tumane Pukara Aur Hum Chale Aye\", \"Bad Muddat Ke Yeh Ghadi Ayee\", \"Mujhhe Yeh Bhool Na\", \"Dil Ne Phir Yaad Kiya\", \"Tujhko Dilbari Ki Kasam\" and \"Chand Takata Hai Idhar\". With Manna Dey, she sang the popular duet \"Na Jane Kahan Ham The\" under the music direction of Dattaram. With Mukesh she has sung many popular duets like `Yeh Kisne Geet Chheda', \"Akhiyon ka noor hai tu\", \"Mera Pyar Bhi Tu Hai\", \"Dil Ne Phir Yaad Kiya\", \"Shama Se Koi Kehde\", etc.\n\nKalyanpur also recorded some memorable songs with a classical base, including \"Manamohan Man Mein Ho Tumhi\", \"Mere Sang Ga Gunguna\" and \"Gir Gayi Re More Mathe Ki Bindiya\".\n\nSuman Kalyanpur's voice was very similar to the singer, Lata Mangeshkar. Many of her songs are indistinguishable from Lata's style, because she sung with a quality comparable to Lata. Kalyanpur was very uncomfortable regarding the similarity between her voice and Lata's. She had once answered \"I was quite influenced by her. In my college days, I used to sing her songs. Meri aawaaz nazuk aur patli thi (My voice was fragile and thin). What could I do? Also when Radio Ceylon relayed the songs, the names were never announced. Even the records sometimes gave the wrong name. Maybe that caused more confusion.\" In the era of 1950s and 1960s, the period was referred as the golden era of Hindi film music where the time when female playback singing was dominated by the Mangeshkar sisters Lata and Asha Bhosale. When Lata was not available for recording, or if the producers could not afford her rate of Rs 100 per song, the song used to be sung by Kalyanpur. During the similar period, Lata had refused to sing with Rafi over royalty issues and those songs were recorded by Kalyanpur with Rafi. She sang over 140 duets with Rafi in this period.\n\nSuman Hemmady married a Mumbai-based businessman Ramanand Kalyanpur in the 1958 and thus, became Suman Kalyanpur from Suman Hemadi. He accompanied her for every recording session after her marriage. She has a daughter named Charul Agni who is settled in the United States after marriage. Her grand daughter Aaishanni Agny returned to India and opened an NGO in Mumbai in her grand mother's name.\n\n\n\nHer recordings include devotional songs, ghazals and thumris.\n\nIn Marathi, Kalyanpur recorded for composers Sudhir Phadke, Dashrath Pujari, Kamlakar Bhagwat and Ashok Patki.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798532", "title": "René Le Bossu", "text": "René Le Bossu\n\nRené Le Bossu or (16 March 163114 March 1680) was a French critic. His surname comes from the French word for \"humpback\".\n\nHe was born in Paris, studied at Nanterre, and in 1649 became one of the regular canons of the Abbey of St Genevieve. He wrote \"Parallèle des principes de la physique d'Aristote et de celle de René Descartes\" (1674) and \"Traité du poème épique\" (1675). The latter book on epic poetry was highly praised by Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux. Its leading doctrine was that the subject should be chosen before the characters, and that the action should be arranged without reference to the personages who are to figure in the scene.\n"}
{"id": "1798535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798535", "title": "Tales of the Vampires", "text": "Tales of the Vampires\n\nTales of the Vampires is a five issue American comic book limited series (later collected in a single trade paperback), published by Dark Horse Comics and set in the Buffyverse. It comprises an anthology of short stories written by Joss Whedon, Jane Espenson, Ben Edlund, and Drew Goddard. Each story tells the tale of one or more Buffyverse vampires, and the otherwise unrelated collection is strung together by a bridging story written by Whedon.\n\nThe anthology is presented as a series of stories told by an ancient vampire to a group of young Watchers. \"Tales of the Vampires\" is the tale of that storytelling session and functions as a bridge among the other items in the anthology. The stories in this series are generally considered to be an official part of the Buffyverse canon.\n\nDark Horse published a new one-shot special based on the \"Tales of the Vampires\" concept by Becky Cloonan, Vasilis Lolos, Gabriel Bá and Fabio Moon in June 2009. Specifically, this one-shot is a tie-in with the \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer Season Eight\" storyline following \"Harmonic Divergence\" in which vampires become very popular with the public at large.\n\nHalloween one-shot special (September 10, 2003)\n\nPublished (December 10, 2003) cover by John Totleben\n\nPublished (January 14, 2004) cover by Ben Templesmith\n\nPublished (February 11, 2004) cover by Eric Powell\n\nPublished (March 17, 2004) cover by Ben Edlund\n\nPublished (April 28, 2004) cover by Ben Edlund\n\n"}
{"id": "1798544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798544", "title": "Bostanai", "text": "Bostanai\n\nBostanai (Hebrew: בוסתנאי), also spelled Bustenai, was the first exilarch under Arabian rule; he flourished about the middle of the 7th century. The name is Aramaized from the Persian \"bustan\" or \"bostan\", meaning \"Garden\" (as proper name see Ferdinand Justi, \"Iranisches Namenbuch\", p. 74). Almost the only exilarch of whom anything more than the name is known, he is frequently made the subject of legends.\n\nBostanai was the son of the exilarch Hananiah. Hai Gaon seems to identify Bostanai with Haninai, and tells that he was given for wife a daughter of the Persian king Chosroes II (died 628), by the calif Omar (died 644). Abraham ibn Daud, however, says that it was the last Sassanid king, Yezdegerd (born 624; died 651-652), who gave his daughter to Bostanai. But in that case it could have been only Calif Ali (656-661), and not Omar, who thus honored the exilarch. It is known also that Ali gave a friendly reception to the contemporary Gaon Isaac; and it is highly probable, therefore, that he honored the exilarch in certain ways as the official representative of the Jews. The office of the exilarch, with its duties and privileges, as it existed for some centuries under the Arabian rule, may be considered to begin with Bostanai.\n\nThe relation of Bostanai to the Persian princess called \"Dara\" or \"Azdad-war\" had an unpleasant sequel. The exilarch lived with her without having married her, and according to the rabbinical law she should previously have received her \"letter of freedom,\" for, being a prisoner of war, she had become an Arabian slave, and as such had been presented to Bostanai.\n\nAfter Bostanai's death, his sons insisted that the princess and her son were still slaves and hence, their property. The judges were divided in opinion, but finally decided that the legitimate sons of the exilarch should grant letters of manumission to the princess and her son in order to testify to their emancipation. This decision was based on the ground that Bostanai had probably lived in legitimate marriage with this woman, and, although there were no proofs, had presumably first emancipated and then married her.\n\nNevertheless, the descendants of the princess were not recognized as legitimate 300 years afterward. The statement in the genizah specimen (see bibliography below) is doubtless dictated by enmity to the exilarch; Abraham ibn Daud's statement is contrariwise prejudiced in favor of the exilarch; but compare genizah fragment published by Schechter.\n\nThe name \"Bostanai\" gave rise to the following legend: The last Persian king (Hormuzd), inimical to the Jews, decided to extinguish the royal house of David, no one being left of that house but a young woman whose husband had been killed shortly after his marriage, and who was about to give birth to a child. Then the king dreamed that he was in a beautiful garden (\"bostan\"), where he uprooted the trees and broke the branches, and, as he was lifting up his ax against a little root, an old man snatched the ax away from him and gave him a blow that almost killed him, saying: \"Are you not satisfied with having destroyed the beautiful trees of my garden, that you now try to destroy also the last root? Truly, you deserve that your memory perish from the earth.\" The king thereupon promised to guard the last plant of the garden carefully. No one but an old Jewish sage was able to interpret the dream, and he said: \"The garden represents the Davidic line, all of whose descendants you have destroyed except a woman with her unborn boy. The old man whom you saw was David, to whom you promised that you would take care that his house should be renewed by this boy.\" The Jewish sage, who was the father of the young woman, brought her to the king, and she was assigned to rooms fitted up with princely splendor, where she gave birth to a boy, who received the name \"Bostanai,\" from the garden (\"bostan\") which the king had seen in his dream.\n\nThe veracity of this account was disputed by Rabbi Sherira Gaon who claimed his own lineage traces to a pre-Bostanaian branch of the Davidic line.\n\nThe figure of the wasp in the escutcheon of the exilarch was made the subject of another legend. The king had taken delight in the clever boy, and, spending one day with him, saw, as he stood before him, a wasp sting him on the temple. The blood trickled down the boy's face, yet he made no motion to chase the insect away. The king, upon expressing astonishment at this, was told by the youth that in the house of David, of which he had come, they were taught, since they themselves had lost their throne, neither to laugh nor to lift up the hand before a king, but to stand in motionless respect. The king, moved thereby, showered favors upon him, made him an exilarch, and gave him the power to appoint judges of the Jews and the heads of the three academies, Nehardea, Sura, and Pumbedita. In memory of this Bostanai introduced a wasp into the escutcheon of the exilarchate.\n\nThe genizah fragment says that the incident with the wasp occurred in the presence of the calif Omar, before whom Bostanai as a youth of sixteen had brought a dispute with a sheikh, who filled his office during the exilarch's minority, and then refused to give it up. Bostanai was exilarch when Persia fell into the hands of the Arabians, and when Ali came to Babylon Bostanai went to meet him with a splendid retinue, whereby the calif was so greatly pleased that he asked for Bostanai's blessing. The calif, on learning that Bostanai was not married, gave him Dara, the daughter of the Persian king, as wife; and the exilarch was permitted to make her a Jew and to marry her legitimately. She bore him many children, but their legitimacy was assailed after their father's death by the exilarch's other sons (\"Ma'aseh Bostanai,\" several times printed under different titles). This legend was made known only in the 16th century (compare Isaac Akrish), but the Seder 'Olam Zuṭṭa, composed in the beginning of the 9th century, drew upon the legends of the garden and the wasp (see Mar Zutra II).\n\nThe name \"Dara\" for the Persian princess in Christian sources occurs also as that of Chosroes' daughter. The legend glorifying Bostanai probably originated in Babylon, while the genizah fragment, branding all the descendants of Bostanai as illegitimate, being descendants of a slave and unworthy to fill high office, comes from Palestine. This latter view is of course erroneous, as may be gathered from Hai's remark, above mentioned, for the post-Bostanaite house of exilarchs was not descended from the princess. It is true, however, that the Bostanaites were hated by the scholars and the pious men, probably in part because Anan, founder of the Karaite etc., was a descendant of Bostanai. Benjamin of Tudela says that he was shown the grave of Bostanai near Pumbedita.\n\nThere is a street in the Katamon community in Jerusalem named after Bostanai.\n\n\nThis article is an evolution of the corresponding article in the public-domain \"Jewish Encyclopedia\", which gives the following bibliography:\n"}
{"id": "1798546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798546", "title": "From the Soil", "text": "From the Soil\n\nFrom the Soil (), first published in 1947, is a work by Fei Xiaotong, a pioneering Chinese sociologist and anthropologist. The book is a compilation of the author's lecture notes and a series of essays he wrote for Chinese journal \"Shiji Pinglun\". Banned in Mainland China shortly after the communist takeover and in Taiwan due to Fei's perceived support of the Communist regime, the book only remained available in the Chinese-speaking world in Hong Kong until the 1980s, when Fei was rehabilitated and instated as a professor at Peking University. It was only translated into English in 1992.\n\nFei wrote the book in an effort to develop a conceptual framework for depicting the moral and ethical characteristics of Chinese society, while simultaneously contrasting Chinese society's organizational structure with Western society. According to Fei, the title came from his trying to convey the idea that \"the Chinese people come from the soil\". Originally written with a Chinese audience in mind for the purpose of explicitly delineating the unique characteristics of their society, the book is also popular outside of China as a way to study and relate to Chinese society.\n\n\"From the Soil\" is a compilation of lecture notes from courses author Fei Xiaotong taught on Chinese rural society in the 1940s, and a series of essays he wrote for \"Shiji Pinglun\", a Chinese intellectual journal. Published in 1947, \"From the Soil\" quickly became one of Fei's most widely read books, and along with \"Reconstructing Rural China\" made Fei famous within China's intellectual circles. Even though Fei supported the Chinese Communist Party, following their consolidation of rule on the mainland his works were nonetheless branded as \"rightist\" and \"anti-Marxist\" and were subsequently banned; in neighboring Taiwan, Fei's works were similarly restricted because he had expressed support for the Communist party, although \"From the Soil\" remained available in Hong Kong. During these years, however, Fei's books (but not \"From the Soil\") were translated into English and spread to the West, where they became widely read.\n\nAfter Fei was rehabilitated and sociology re-instated as a discipline in China in 1979, he was hired as a professor at Peking University and began teaching \"From the Soil\" as one of three required texts to small groups of graduate students.\n\nThe primary theme of \"From the Soil\" is that Chinese people were \"inseparable from the soil\" which nurtured Chinese society but also limits its potential, a description that Andrea Janku calls \"the portrait of a rural and inward looking country\".\n\nFei also tackles the issue of selfishness in Chinese society, lamenting how the beautiful canals of Suzhou are routinely marred by garbage thrown in by residents with no sympathy for their fellow neighbors who use the canal's water to wash their clothes and vegetables. He uses the concentric ripples of a pebble hitting water as an analogy for Chinese societal structure to explain this selfishness, in what he calls a \"self-centered quality\" inherent in Chinese social relationships. In addition, he explains how kinship form the nexus of social relationships, governed under rules called \"guanxi\", with every relationship falling under one of many distinct categories. Those falling further from the center (self) of the metaphorical ripples are categorized differently than those falling closer to the center. Fei further explains the unspoken rules of \"guanxi\", explaining that rights and obligations to one another must be balanced and favors must be returned over set periods of time to prevent relationships from being severed.\n\nHe also observes how Chinese political structure is on a \"two-track\" system: one centered on the central government and the other on local government, with each trying to influence the other with varying levels of success. Within this context, Fei offers suggestions on political reform that rest on restoring strong local power.\n\nWhile \"From the Soil\" was banned in much of the Chinese-speaking world mere years after its publication, today it is one of Fei's most widely read books and, according to \"The New York Times\", is a \"cornerstone of modern sociology and anthropology. While Gary Hamilton and Wang Zhang called Fei's prose \"disarming\", they also observed that Fei possessed a deep understanding of Western sociological thought, mentioning and borrowing ideas from Western thinkers such as Emile Durkheim, George Herbert Mead, and William James. The University of California Press, its publisher in English, calls the book both \"succinct and accessible\" and \"likely to have a wide impact on Western social theorists\". According to Hamilton, \"it is through this book that many Westerners can now learn about China.\"\n"}
{"id": "1798548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798548", "title": "List of Chinese sociologists and anthropologists", "text": "List of Chinese sociologists and anthropologists\n\nThe academic disciplines of sociology and anthropology were under active development in China in the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798549", "title": "Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)", "text": "Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\n\n\"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey, featuring Mystikal, from her first soundtrack and eighth studio album \"Glitter\" (2001). It was written by herself, DJ Clue, Duro, and Mystikal, while production was handled by the former three. The song is built around a sample of the 1980 song \"Funkin' for Jamaica (N.Y.)\" produced by Tom Browne and Toni Smith, who are credited as co-writers. It was released as the album's third single on November 26, 2001 by Virgin Records America. The song features Mystikal evoking his past single \"Shake Ya Ass\" during his verses, while Carey tells him \"don't stop\".\n\n\"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" received mixed reviews from music critics, who liked the song, but thought Carey was overshadowed. Like the preceding singles from the album, \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" failed to make any significant impact on the charts. It appeared on \"Billboard\"s Bubbling Under Hot 100 chart, a component of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, thus peaking at number 123. It reached the top forty in the United Kingdom and Australia, as part of a double A-side with \"Never Too Far\". The music video for the song directed by Sanaa Hamri depicts Carey and Mystikal performing in a southern club, with the former being cloned by three.\n\nIn April 2001, Carey signed an estimated US$100 million record deal with Virgin Records. Following commencement for \"Glitter\" — her first album under the new label — and the film of same name, Carey embarked on a massive promotional campaign for the project. In July of the same year, Carey made a controversial appearance on the MTV program \"Total Request Live\" (TRL). She came out onto the filming stage, pushing an ice cream cart while wearing an oversized shirt. Seemingly anxious and exhilarated, Carey began giving out individual bars of ice cream to fans and guests on the program, while waving to the crowd down below on Times Square, while diverging into a rambling monologue regarding therapy. Carey then walked to Daly's platform and began a striptease, in which she shed her shirt to reveal a tight yellow and green ensemble, leading him to exclaim \"Mariah Carey has lost her mind!\".\n\nFollowing other appearances on which her publicist Cindy Berger said the singer was \"not thinking clearly\", she was hospitalized, citing \"extreme exhaustion\" and a \"physical and emotional breakdown\". Following her induction at an un-disclosed hospital in Connecticut, Carey remained hospitalized and under doctor's care for two weeks, followed by an extended absence from the album's promotion. \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" was released worldwide as the third single from \"Glitter\" by Virgin Records America on November 26, 2001, as a double A-side single with \"Never Too Far\". The song appears in a scene of the film \"Glitter\", when producer Julian \"Dice\" Black has met Billie Frank (played by Carey) and invites her to an impromptu freestyle jam session in his club.\n\n\"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" was composed by Carey, Mystikal, Duro and DJ Clue, and interpolates \"Funkin' for Jamaica (N.Y.)\" by Tom Browne. Due to the song's use of the sample, Browne and Toni Smith also received writing credits. Its usage \"tweaks minor pieces to form an update\". Featuring guest verses from rapper Mystikal, he declares \"Ain't nothin' you could do with the man / Except for shake your ass and clap your hands\", while Carey responds \"Don't stop bay-beee, its ex-ta-see / Turn me up a little\". According to Est. 1997 website, Carey and Mystikal created a \"brilliant marriage between an 80s funk jam and 2000s rap\". The rapper's vocals were compared to those of James Brown by Larry Nager from \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\". For his part, James Salmon from Dotmusic commented that Carey \"plays the heavy breathing, bikini-clad booty girl to Mystical's gentlemanly cries of 'shake ya ass' and 'get on the floor'\".\n\n\"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" received mixed reviews from music critics. Harry Guerin from Raidió Teilifís Éireann wrote that Carey \"works better on raunch not regrets and her duets\" like on the song, which perfectly captured the film's 1980's vibe, also complimenting its \"clinical\" production which \"you wonder whether the engineers work masks and gowns at the mixing desk\", proving that Carey should \"spend more time around DJs and decks and less with grand pianos\". A writer from BET network included the track on their list of \"Mariah Carey Singles That Deserved to Be No. 1 (But Didn't Get There)\", stating that \"not even Mystikal could help a track that was cursed by simply being part of the \"Glitter\" soundtrack\". Its \"catchiness\" was also praised, while also commenting that it should have receive more attention. Natalie Nichols from the \"Los Angeles Times\" gave a mixed statement, commenting how the song was \"almost campy\", but \"guilty fun\". \n\nWitney Seibold from Mandatory website was mixed, saying \"This may be my favorite or second favorite track on the record\", but criticized the fact that Carey was \"so often in the background\", and wondered if \"Glitter\" was her \"ploy to move from the forefront of her records to a more production-heavy vocation\". For his part, Slant Magazine editor Sal Cinquemani wrote that \"not all of \"Glitter\" is, ahem, gold. Carey is relegated to a virtual hood ornament of Don't Stop\". Larry Nager from \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" commented that Carey \"grooves with less success to Tom Browne's '80s fusion hit, 'Funkin' for Jamaica'\". \"People\" magazine was more negative, stating that the song borrowed \"a little too lazily\" from its sampled song. James Salmon from Dotmusic was also negative, saying it was \"highly jaded and predictably uninteresting. But we'll let her off just this once\".\n\n\"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" failed to make any significant impact on the charts. It failed to reach the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, however it peaked inside of the Bubbling Under Hot 100, which acts as an extension of the former chart, peaking at number 123 on the week dated October 27, 2001. It also reached number 42 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs component chart. Worldwide, \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" was released as a double A-side with \"Never Too Far\". In the United Kingdom, the release reached a position of number 32. It also managed to reach peaks of numbers 36 and 16 in Australia and Spain, respectively. \"Never Too Far/Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" reached numbers 67 and 65 in the Netherlands and Switzerland, respectively. In both the Flemish and Wallonian territories in Belgium, the single peaked at numbers four and one, respectively, on the equivalent of the \"bubbling under\" charts, registering songs just below the main charts.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\" was directed by Sanaa Hamri and filmed at the Maple Leaf Bar and a swamp outside New Orleans, Louisiana. The song's radio version was used in the video. The word \"ass\" was removed in the version. R!OT provided visual effects services for the video. Initially, the director planned to shot the elements of Carey against green screen, but R!OT visual effects supervisor Eric Mises-Rosenfeld found that there was too little room to set up a screen behind the singer on the stage. Rosenfeld consulted with R!OT VFX production's compositing team in Santa Monica and together they came up with a solution, according to VFX's production coordinator Diana Young, who said: \"They determined that a split screen technique could be used to produce the required plates while meeting the director's creative objectives\". Chief among those objectives was making the trick look real. \"The idea was to make it appear natural\", explained HSI producer Steve Woroniecki. \"We wanted something more than just three Mariahs on-stage, they needed to function like a real trio, interacting with one another - so that it wouldn't be easy to see how it was done\".\n\nMises-Rosenfeld played a key role in accomplishing that goal, advising Hamri on what could and could not be done and concocting clever ways to make the three singers appear to be part of the same environment. R!OT's compositing team, consisting of lead compositor Claus Hansen assisted by Stefano Trivelli and Verdi Sevenhuysen, cemented the effect joining the three images together seamlessly and layering them over a background scene that included fans sitting at tables behind the stage. At one point, an extra crosses the frame between the camera and the back-up trio. According to Woroniecki, \"That was one of the things that we thought would make the shot feel real. It took very careful work from the compositors to prepare all of the layers and adjust the lighting and shadows to make it work, but in the end it looks seamless. It's perfect\".\n\nThe music video premiered on MTV's \"Total Request Live\" (TRL) on October 18, 2001. It is set in a nightclub with Mystikal on stage performing for an enthusiastic crowd, featuring southern bayous and various lifestyles. Also on stage there is a trio of back-up singers, all played by Carey. The trio, grouped around a microphone, are not exact duplicates as each Carey wears a different wardrobe and hairstyle. They also behave differently, playing off one another's performance. At one point the two singers on the outside, stop to stare at the singer in the middle as she reaches a high note. Emmanuel Hapsis from KQED included the video on his list of \"All 64 Mariah Carey Music Videos, Ranked from Best to Worst\", highlighting the fact that Carey's ego \"got so big\" that it turned into three.\n\nEuropean CD single\n\nAustralian/European CD maxi-single\n\nUS CD promo-single\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes of the CD single.\n"}
{"id": "1798552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798552", "title": "Bostonite", "text": "Bostonite\n\nBostonite, in petrology, is a fine-grained, pale-colored, grey or pinkish intrusive rock, which consists essentially of alkali-feldspar (orthoclase, perthite, anorthoclase, and albite). Some samples may contain a small amount of interstitial quartz and others may have a small percentage of calcium present in a sodic plagioclase feldspar. Accessory minerals include chlorite, apatite, zircon and magnetite, with rare biotite, hornblende or pyroxene. They have compositions very similar to the trachytes and are usually grouped with them. These rocks are characterised by a 'bostonitic' texture of clusters of subparallel, divergent or radiating irregular feldspar laths in a fine grained matrix.\n\nTypically they occur as dikes or as thin sills, often in association with nepheline syenite; and they seem to bear a complementary relationship to certain types of lamprophyre dikes. Though nowhere very common they have a wide distribution with occurrences in Scotland, Wales, Massachusetts, Ontario, Portugal, Bohemia, and other places.\n\nThe term was widely used in the geologic literature of the late 19th and early to mid 20th centuries, but is currently being discouraged in petrologic usage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798554", "title": "Wu Dingliang", "text": "Wu Dingliang\n\nWu Dingliang (; January 1893 – 24 March 1969), also known as Woo Ting-Liang, was a pioneering Chinese anthropologist and educator. He is considered the founder of Chinese physical anthropology.\n\nWu was educated in Britain during the 1920s and came back to China after he obtained a doctor's degree in anthropology. He continued his work in Academia Sinica as the director and researcher of the Group of Anthropology in the Institute of History and Language. His research concentrated on somatometry, description of biological variation of ethnic minorities in China. He collected morphological measurements and described physical characteristics of living people in different parts of China. He also prepared the foundation of Institute of Physical Anthropology. He published more than 10 papers on physical anthropology, for example, in 1942, he published \"the Physical Characteristics of Miao in South China\" in \"Journal of Anthropology\" edited by Britain Royal Society. Moreover, Wu Dingliang set up and edited \"Renleixue Jikan\"(Communication on Anthropology).\n\nIn 1941, Wu published the paper \"Somatometry of Chinese in the Plain of North China\" (including 190 indexes of somatometry) in Vol.2 of \"Communication on Anthropology\". In Sept.of 1947, the Department of Anthropology and the Institute of Anthropology were set up at Zhejiang University, Wu Dingliang assumed the dean of the department and the chief of the institute. Wu Dingliang educated many students that became prominent scholars of physical anthropology. Among them are Zhang Yinyun and Han Kangxin. In the period from 1946 to 1948, he also worked as part-time professor in the department of anthropology at Jinan University in Shanghai. In 1948,Wu Dingliang was elected as academician of Academia Sinica.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Wu and Liu Xian invited Dong Tichen and Zhao Yiqing to Fudan University. They created the first teaching and research unit of physical anthropology in China.\n\nWu was prosecuted during the Cultural Revolution, and he committed suicide in 1969.\n\nWu Dingliang and Mo Rende, 1932, A Preliminary Classification of Asiatic Races Based on Cranial Measurements [monograph], Academia Sinica Monograph of the National Research Institute of Social Science, No.7\n\nCommunication on Anthropology https://web.archive.org/web/20100507105727/http://comonca.org.cn/\n\n"}
{"id": "1798555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798555", "title": "Anna Maria Mozart", "text": "Anna Maria Mozart\n\nAnna Maria Walburga Mozart (née Pertl; December 25, 1720 – July 3, 1778) was the mother of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756–1791) and Maria Anna Mozart (1751–1829).\n\nShe was born in St. Gilgen, Archbishopric of Salzburg, to Eva Rosina (1681–1755) and Wolfgang Nicolaus Pertl (1667–1724), deputy prefect of Hildenstein. Nicolaus had a university degree in jurisprudence from the Benedictine University in Salzburg and held many positions of responsibility, including district superintendent in St. Andrae. He was apparently a skilled musician. He suffered a severe illness in 1714 and had to change positions to one with a relatively small salary as deputy superintendent of . During the last portion of his life, he fell deeply into debt, and he died on 7 March 1724.\n\nNicolaus's possessions were liquidated to help pay the debt, and his remaining family (Anna Maria's mother and her older sister Maria Rosina, born 24 August 1719) lapsed into poverty. They moved to Salzburg, not far away, and lived on a charity pension of just eight (later nine) florins per month, perhaps supplemented by low-level employment. Anna Maria's older sister died in 1728, aged nine. Anna Maria herself was not well when she was young: legal documents from the time describe her as \"constantly ill\" (1733) and \"the constantly ill bedridden daughter\" (1739).\n\nShe married Leopold Mozart in Salzburg in 1747; Abert writes, \"the two were regarded at the time as the handsomest couple in Salzburg.\" The couple moved (perhaps with Anna Maria's mother) into an apartment on the third floor of Getreidegasse 9. Their landlord was Lorenz Hagenauer, who was a close friend of Leopold's, and a frequent correspondent on the family's later travels.\n\nThe Mozarts had seven children, of whom only two survived infancy:\n\nAnna Maria nearly died giving birth to Wolfgang. Her womb retained the placenta, and its subsequent enforced removal at that time posed an extreme risk of fatal infection.\n\nThe two surviving children achieved fame. The daughter Maria Anna was called \"Nannerl\" as a child. She was a talented musician who performed with her brother on tour, but whose later life was very limited in its experiences and possibilities. The son, Wolfgang Amadeus, born 27 January 1756, achieved distinction first as a child prodigy, later as one of the most celebrated of all composers.\n\nAssessing the evidence of the surviving letters, Abert writes of her role as spouse: \"she understood her husband's phlegmatic and painfully conscientious nature and did all she could to spare him the numerous troubles and worries that stemmed from it, a task that cannot have been easy, given his perpetual mistrust, and there is no doubt that she will have drawn a veil over many an unpleasant incident not merely out of prudence, but also from fear. She was utterly devoted to him and willingly submitted to the strict regime to which he inevitably and unquestioningly subjected her.\" Concerning Anna Maria as a mother, he says, \"It was a pure and healthy spirit that reigned in the Mozart household... and Anna Maria must take much of the credit for this. Above all, she was a true mother to her children, who invariably sought refuge with her when their father's strict hand weighed unduly heavily upon them. Wolfgang loved and admired her to distraction.\" The letters record that Anna Maria participated with zest in the family's tendency toward scatological humor, a tendency seen more strongly in Wolfgang; see \"Mozart and scatology\".\n\nAnna Maria went on the series of tours (1762–1768) through Europe, during which the two children were exhibited as prodigies. She unwillingly remained in Salzburg with Nannerl during the tours of Italy that Wolfgang and Leopold took during 1769–1773. In 1777, she accompanied the now-adult Wolfgang (again unwillingly) on a job-hunting tour that took him to Augsburg, Mannheim, and Paris.\n\nWhile in Paris she suddenly got sick and died on 3 July 1778 of an undiagnosed illness. She was buried in the cemetery of Saint-Eustache.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798557", "title": "Elbow River", "text": "Elbow River\n\nThe Elbow River is a river in southern Alberta, Canada. It flows from the Canadian Rockies to the city of Calgary, where it merges into the Bow River.\n\nThe Elbow River is popular among canoers, rafters, campers and hikers and runs through several features including Allen Bill Pond, Forgetmenot Pond, and Elbow Falls. Sections of the river are closed to fishing, or are \"catch-and-release\" waters.\n\nThe water flow of the Elbow River fluctuates significantly, and in June 2005 a flood occurred that was so severe (the heaviest in at least two centuries according to Alberta Government estimates) that the water flowed over the Glenmore Dam. Approximately 1,500 Calgarians living downstream were evacuated. Another, more extensive flood began on 20 June 2013, with tens of thousands of evacuations.\n\nIn June 2013, Alberta, Canada, experienced heavy rainfall that triggered catastrophic flooding throughout much of the southern half of the province along the Bow, Elbow, Highwood and Oldman rivers and tributaries. A dozen municipalities in Southern Alberta declared local states of emergency on June 20 as water levels rose and numerous communities were placed under evacuation orders.\n\nThe Elbow River originates from Elbow Lake in the Elbow-Sheep Wildland Provincial Park in the Canadian Rockies, then continues through the Rocky Mountain foothills and flows into the hamlet of Bragg Creek. The Elbow River passes under Highway 22 and then travels through the rural community of Springbank and the Tsuu T'ina Nation 145 Indian reserve directly west of Calgary. The river enters the City of Calgary at the Weaselhead Flats, an artificial inland delta, and into the Glenmore Reservoir, one of Calgary's two chief sources of drinking water. From there, it flows northward through residential communities towards the city centre, is crossed by Macleod Trail, passes the Calgary Stampede grounds and finally joins the Bow River west of the Calgary Zoo.\n\nFort Calgary (the North-West Mounted Police post established in 1873 around which settlement in the Calgary area began) was located at the confluence of the Bow and Elbow rivers.\n\nThe river has a total length of , and drains an area of over . From its origin in the Elbow Pass at approximately , it drops at a 1 percent slope to its mouth at the Bow River, at an elevation of .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798561", "title": "Botha", "text": "Botha\n\nBotha () is a common Afrikaans surname, derived from the Friso-Saxon \"Both\". It was brought to South Africa in 1678 by Frederich Botha. \"Botha\" roughly translates to \"son of the leader\" in Middle Dutch.\n\nThe progenitors of the extended clan were Maria Kickers, her first partner Ferdinandùs Appel, and her later husband Frederich Botha. Married in 1714, Kickers and Botha later farmed for a living between Stellenbosch and Somerset West. Today, their legal descendants number around 76,125 people, and including:\n\n\n\nPrior to her marriage to Frederich Botha, Maria Kickers had an out-of-wedlock child fathered by Ferdinandùs Appel, another Hollander from an Amsterdam family. This child, a son named Theunis, was later adopted by the Bothas. His descendants include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798567", "title": "Genocide Intervention Network", "text": "Genocide Intervention Network\n\nThe Genocide Intervention Network (or GI-NET) was a non-profit organization aiming to \"empower individuals and communities with the tools to prevent and stop genocide\". Founded in 2004, in 2005 the Genocide Intervention Fund changed its name to Genocide Intervention Network, and in 2011, it merged with the Save Darfur Coalition to form a new organization, United to End Genocide.\n\nIn October 2004, two Swarthmore College students, Mark Hanis and Andrew Sniderman, established the Genocide Intervention Network in hopes of empowering citizens to protect civilians from the atrocities occurring in Darfur. GI-Net's mission and policy goals were greatly influenced by the \"Responsibility to Protect\" doctrine, drafted by the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, in order to create a permanent anti-genocide grassroots movement.\n\nIn 2011, GI-Net and the Save Darfur Coalition merged to establish United to End Genocide.\n\nMark Hanis, Andrew Sniderman, Sam Bell, Cara Angelotta, Susannah Gund, Janessa Calvo-Friedman, Rita Kamani, Elisabeth Jaquette and others wanted the genocide in Sudan to be treated as a security issue, not as a humanitarian disaster, and did so by directly supporting the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS), an underfunded peacekeeping force.\n\nGI-Net's controversial idea of supporting military force for foreign intervention attracted the attention of Gayle Smith, who had two decades of experience in Africa and had been the senior director of African Affairs in Clinton's National Security Council. Smith provided the first positive interest in GI-Net's work. Smith helped GI-Net raise over $300,000 to support AMIS.\n\nAfter several disagreements on how to organize the fundraising money, GI-Net, in collaboration with the African Union, funded the Africa Humanitarian Action to support patrols that would protect displaced women, who put themselves at risk of rape when they left the internally displaced persons camps to collect firewood in order to prepare food. The program was canceled due to a lack of additional support and financial resources.\n\nIn 2006, GI-Net looked for new methods to increase economic pressure on the Sudanese government. However, after the U.S. government had already maxed out the economic sanctions it could apply alone, GI-Net increased its involvement in the divestment campaign that had begun on Harvard's college campus in 2004.\n\nThe goal behind the divestment campaign was simple: to engage students to pressure their universities to withdraw investments providing revenue to Sudanese government. This financial support allowed the Sudanese government to expand on their military assets.\n\nBy April 2005, the student activism prompted college officials to change its investment policies. Harvard University declared that it would withdraw support in China National Petroleum Corporation, a business partner of the Sudanese government. Companies in the oil industry were the perfect target for divestment since oil is an essential source of revenue for the government, but is an industry that provides little benefit or relief to Sudanese civilians.\n\nBy September 2006, the divestment movement grew substantially and adopted larger goals. The group eventually became known as the Sudan Divestment Task Force, which drafted legislation to influence state legislatures around the United States to divest.\n\nFeeling pressured by the U.S.-based advocacy campaign, the Khartoum spent close to a million dollars on an eight-page spread in the New York Times encouraging companies to invest in Sudan, a country with \"peaceful, prosperous and democratic future\".\n\nAs the official Olympic torch made its way around the world prior to the beginning of the 2008 Summer Olympics, the Olympic Dream for Darfur team, a campaign to bring mass attention to the conflict in Darfur, began its own symbolic relay. The Dream for Darfur team had one and only goal: to convince China that the continuation of the Olympic Games in Beijing was at risk unless it withdrew support for Sudan's regime. Genocide survivors joined the relay led by Mia Farrow and traveled to Rwanda, Armenia, Germany, Bosnia, Herzegovina, and Cambodia.\n\nThis led to the formation of a U.S.-based relay in September 2007. Jill Savitt and Mia Farrow organized and led the event, supported by GI-Net, the Save Darfur Coalition, and the Enough Project.\n\nThe mission of the Dream for Darfur team was to break down the foreign policy information into digestible form, so that citizens, without the background to understand the complexities of the international policy-making process, could become involved in the anti-genocide campaign.\n\nThe Dream for Darfur team encouraged the major sponsors of the Olympic Games, such as McDonald's, Anheuser-Busch, Microsoft, and Volkswagen to privately meet with Chinese officials to raise concern over affairs in Darfur. Eventually, the team encouraged Steven Spielberg to resign as creative consultant for the opening ceremonies.\n\nIn 2005, the organization changed its name from Genocide Intervention Fund to its current name, Genocide Intervention Network. GI-Net was publicly re-launched on April 6, 2005. GI-Net immediately broadened its efforts by introducing a membership and chapter program in order to educate and mobilize support for U.S. policies that could assist victims in Darfur. In 2011, the Save Darfur Coalition and GI-Net merged to create United to End Genocide. The organization's president is Tom Andrews.\n\nGI-Net launched a program to build an engaged and permanent anti-genocide community. Named in honor of Carl Wilkens—the only American to remain in Rwanda during the genocide in 1994—the \"Wilkens Fellowship\" was a selective year-long program that exposed individuals to vital tools and resources in hopes of building permanent peaceful communities throughout the world.\n\nThe program terminated in 2012 due to financial constraints.\n\nFor more information about past fellowship recipients, visit: United to End Genocide\n\nIn 2004, a group of Georgetown University students created a campus community organization that focuses on genocide prevention. The program gained national recognition, and now colleges and universities across the United States host STAND chapters.\n\nSTAND emerged as a grassroots-based campaign that networks students who are committed to ending crimes against humanity around the world. Since its debut, STAND developed as a key component in the anti-genocide movement alongside its previous parent organizations: the Genocide Intervention Network, which merged into United to End Genocide. In 2012, STAND became an independent organization, entirely student-run.\n\nTwo college students co-founded the Sudan Divestment Task Force (SDTF) in 2005. The Task Force launched successful divestment campaigns around the world targeting university endowments, asset managers and city, state, and national investment policies. As a result of the Task Force efforts, twenty-two states, dozens of universities, eleven cities and fifteen countries adopted Sudan divestment policies. SDTF worked closely with Genocide Intervention Network, and in 2006 became part of GI-NET under the leadership of Adam Sterling, an original co-founder. The Sudan Divestment Task Force led to the enactment of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act (SADA) on December 31, 2007.\n\nAs part of the campaign, the University of California, Brown, Amherst, Princeton, the University of Vermont, and the University of Washington are encouraging companies not to provide financial support to the Sudanese government. Instead, financial aid is given directly to the victims of the genocide.\n\nIn 2009, SDTF became the Conflict Risk Network (CRN). Drawing upon successes in corporate engagement and the lessons learned from the Sudan divestment movement, the CRN calls on corporate actors to take steps towards responsible actions including acts that support peace and stability in areas affected by genocide and mass atrocities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798574", "title": "Nancy Fleming", "text": "Nancy Fleming\n\nNancy Anne Fleming (born May 20, 1942) is an American beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Miss America 1961 on September 10, 1960.\n\nFleming graduated from Michigan State University in 1964 and earned a teaching certificate from the University of California, Berkeley in 1966. She is listed as one of Michigan State University's \"Accomplished Women Graduates.\" During her freshman year at MSU, she lived in West Landon Hall on the North Campus, a dormitory for women. Her time at the school was sometimes troubled. Later, she said, \"I felt like a freak at MSU. I had just been on television three days before and I entered with a lot of fanfare. There was a lot of weirdness and rudeness. I was pointed out and stared at. It was really creepy.\"\n\nA native of Montague, Michigan, Fleming competed in the Miss America pageant as Miss Michigan. She competed in the Miss Michigan pageant as Miss White Lake.\n\nBefore entering show business, Fleming worked as an elementary school teacher.\n\nShe later worked in the entertainment industry, as a program host and interviewer for ABC-TV, Cable Health Network (now Lifetime) and PBS. \n\nShe appeared in an episode of \"The Love Boat\" in 1984, along with Jean Bartel, Miss America 1943; Marian McKnight, Miss America 1957; and Vanessa L. Williams, Miss America 1984.\n\nFleming's first husband was William Frederic Johnson. In 1978, Fleming married Jim Lange, a radio and television personality; their marriage lasted until his death in 2014. Fleming has two children from her first marriage: Ingrid and Steig. Fleming also has three stepchildren from her marriage to Lange: Nick, Romney, and Gavin.\n"}
{"id": "1798575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798575", "title": "List of Ultimate Fantastic Four story arcs", "text": "List of Ultimate Fantastic Four story arcs\n\nSynopses of \"Ultimate Fantastic Four\" storylines and graphic novels are featured here. The first writers of the series were Brian Michael Bendis and Mark Millar for the first 6 issues. They were followed by Warren Ellis for 12 issues, Mike Carey for 2 issues before Mark Millar came back for a separate run of 13 issues, after which Carey came back for a longer run of 26 issues. The book ended with Joe Pokaski, writer of \"Heroes\", for the remaining 3 issues, concluding through his \"Requiem\" story.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798576", "title": "Newcrest Mining", "text": "Newcrest Mining\n\nNewcrest Mining Limited is an Australian-based corporation which engages in the exploration, development, mining and sale of gold and gold-copper concentrate. It is Australia's leading gold mining company and its operations have expanded beyond Australia, for example Indonesia, thus becoming a prominent international mining corporation. Newmont Mining Corporation initially started the company as a subsidiary in 1966. The subsidiary became Newmont Holdings Pty Ltd. in 1980 and in 1990 acquired 100% of Australmin Holdings Ltd. taking the current name.\n\nNewcrest's primary gold and copper production in Australia is at Ridgeway (Cadia Valley Operations), the second Australian operation being the Telfer Mine in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. Newcrest also operates two mines in Papua New Guinea, Lihir and Hidden Valley, and one each in Ivory Coast (Bonikro) and Indonesia (Gosowong). Past and present exploration was done in the Americas, Asia and Europe.\n\nIn April 2010, Newcrest announced it was in merger talks with Lihir Gold, a move that would create the world's fifth-largest gold producer, with a combined production of 2.8 million ounces of gold in 2009. In August 2010, the deal was approved by Lihir shareholders (99.86%), and by the end of the month by the national court of Papua New Guinea (PNG), clearing the way for the deal. Under the deal worth US$9.45 billion, Newcrest will give Lihir shareholders 0.12 Newcrest shares, plus A$0.225 per Lihir share. As of 2015, Newcrest was the world's sixth-largest producer of gold.\n\nNewmont Mining Corporation was founded in 1921 in New York by Colonel William Thompson as a holding company to invest in worldwide mineral, oil, and relations companies. The Newmont name is an abbreviation of where Thompson lived and worked; New York and Montana. Newmont is now the world's second largest gold producer. The Newmont Mining Corporation began an Australian subsidiary in 1966 and by 1971 they claimed to have discovered Telfer.\n\nIn 1980 the subsidiary became Newmont Holdings Pty Ltd and was based in Victoria, Australia. Seven years later it was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange as Newmont Australia Limited. When in 1990 the company acquired 100% of Australmin Holdings Ltd and 92% of BHP Gold Mines Ltd, it acquired its current company name.\n\nNewcrest's primary focus was within Australia until 1991, when it commenced exploration overseas. Newcrest was determined to become a significant and internationally recognised gold mining and exploration company. The company established exploration offices and new companies offshore in Jakarta, Indonesia and Chile, South America.\n\nIn 1992, exploration discovered its first offshore gold in the Halmahera Islands, Indonesia. And in 1996, Newcrest stated that the company wished to transform itself into a world-scale and internationally recognised producer. In 2002, years of exploration around Australia and overseas were paying dividends and the Newcrest group was capitalised at over $2 billion.\n\nAfter restarting gold mining activities in Cracow, Queensland, in a 70:30 joint venture with Sedimentary Holdings in 2004, Newcrest sold its shares in this operation when Catalpa Resources, which had meanwhile acquired Sedimentary Holdings, merged with Conquest Mining in 2011 to form Evolution Mining Limited.\n\nThe discovery of gold has been a major contributor to Australia's economy and infrastructure. Gold mining provided transportation, communication, road and rail and raw material for export around the colonies. This was especially prominent after 1851 in the Victorian goldfields. In the past, Australia has exported gold to the US and Europe, however over time the traditional consumers have changed.\n\nWhen alluvial gold deposits were exhausted in the 1800s, deeper mines were necessary. Working deep veins necessitated deep shafts, machinery and treatment plants, consequently these required investment. Individual miners were replaced by companies, employing dozens or even hundreds of men. Technology and mapping made gold exploration more accurate and efficient. Australia was seen to have very large mineral resources. This development, together with Australia's political stability, led to an influx of major overseas mining companies, such as Newmont, in the 1960s.\n\nThe emergence of Japan as a major buyer of minerals, combined with technological advances in ore separation, saw a shift in many mines from uneconomic production to sustainable production. By the mid-1980s, one of the few productive mining industries in Australian was gold mining because its price had been fixed since World War II.\n\nOther factors lifted the production in gold, such as the development of the efficient carbon-in-pulp method for recovering very fine-grained and low-grade gold. It became feasible to mine entire zones of gold bearing veins via open cut or underground mining instead of only main veins.\n\nIn the 1990s, there was a period of consolidation with extensive focus on further improving efficiency and safety of operations and movement towards globalisation; customers of minerals and metals became more diverse. During this period, the industry continued to be a major source of export income for the Australian economy, despite far-reaching changes in world mineral production and consumption patterns. India and China recently became the top importers of Australian gold because it continues to function extremely well as an inflation hedge. Furthermore, environmental and social concerns in relation to the mining industry have become global with the widespread uptake of new communication technologies.\n\nFrom a corporate perspective, the Australian mining industry grew beyond being a large national sector into a world player. The industry is now diversified and integrated internationally through its exploration, mining and processing activities, and the supply of information technology, engineering, construction and other services. Annual surveys by the Minerals Council of Australia show that from the mid- to late-1990s, respondents spent over 40% of their total exploration budgets overseas.\n\nThe industry is also making a wide range of major investments in overseas mines and forging international marketing and processing alliances in regard to many minerals and metals. However, investment has also flowed in the other direction, with significant overseas investment in Australia for exploration and the development or expansion of mining and processing facilities.\n\nNewcrest's mining operations are located around Australia, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, and Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe Telfer Mine is a large open cut and underground mine in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The mine has the potential to become the largest gold mine in Australia, with expected average production of 800,000 ounces (25,000 kg) of gold per year.\n\nRidgeway is a large underground gold and copper mine being developed by Newcrest. In its first full year of operation and metal production of 377,539 ounces (11,742.8 kg) of gold was in line with plan. Development of the Cadia Hill mine in New South Wales began in 1996 and production began in 1998. It produces 298,848 ounces (9,295.2 kg) of gold per year.\n\nGosowong, Indonesia, is an open pit mine opened in 1999. It is 75% owned by Newcrest, and the rest is owned by joint venture partner Pt Nusa Halmahera Minerals. The mine has produced 772,018 ounces (24,012.4 kg) of gold and 812,815 ounces (25,281.4 kg) of silver over the first five years of production.\n\nHidden Valley is an open-pit, gold-silver mine and processing plant in Morobe Province, Papua New Guinea. The mine is approximately 210 km north-north-west of Port Moresby, and 90 km south-southwest of Lae. It is operated by Morobe Mining Joint Ventures, a 50:50 joint venture between Harmony and Newcrest Mining.\n\nNewcrest's second Papua New Guinea mine is the gold mine located on Lihir Island in the New Ireland Province of Papua New Guinea. It was acquired by taking over Lihir Gold Ltd. in 2010 (see above).\n\nNewcrest owns 89.89% of the Bonikro gold mine in Ivory Coast. It is located 250 km from the nation's capital Abidjan. In December 2010, Newcrest announced that work at this mine had been suspended due to the controversial election in Côte d'Ivoire.\nNewcrest's headquarters are located in Melbourne, Australia since having been integrated with Sydney in 1995. Other offices are based at major mine sites to help communication between miners and the head office.\n\nA majority of Newcrest's copper-gold concentrate is sold under long-term contract to smelters in Japan. Feed for the Saganoseki Smelter and Refinery is transported to Japan's southernmost island, Kyushu, and the concentrate is turned into 99.99% pure gold bullion which is sold to Asia's metal market. However, Newcrest also operates in the sale of concentrate to merchants who deliver the material to various regional smelters under their own contracts.\n\nThe company has been accused of human rights violations and accelerating environmental damage particularly on Halmahera Island in Indonesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798579", "title": "British Columbia Youth Parliament", "text": "British Columbia Youth Parliament\n\nThe British Columbia Youth Parliament (BCYP) is a youth service organization that operates in the guise of a \"parliament\" in the Canadian province of British Columbia. The BCYP fulfills its motto of \"Youth Serving Youth\" by means of \"legislation\" enacting community service projects and other youth-oriented activities. The BCYP is the successor to the Older Boys' Parliament of British Columbia, which first met in 1924.\n\nEach year between December 27–31, youth aged 16 to 21 from across British Columbia gather in the Legislative Chambers of the B.C. Parliament Buildings in the capital city of Victoria for the BCYP annual session. Members sit as independents (i.e., they do not represent any political party) and vote according to their individual conscience on all issues. They learn about parliamentary process, debate topics of interest, and plan numerous activities for the upcoming year. Proposed activities, usually in the form of community service projects, are presented in the form of government bills; once passed they must be put into effect. This model differs from most other model (or \"mock\") youth parliaments in Canada; legislation passed by the membership is enacted by the organization through volunteer work in the community.\n\nDuring the sittings of the BCYP during its December session, members of the BCYP (usually backbenchers) are given the opportunity to present \"Private Members' Resolutions\" (PMRs) for debate. These are usually on topics related to current events or other issues important to members and usually contain a provision for communicating the decision of the BCYP on that topic to the actual governmental authorities or other parties responsible for those issues. On occasion, a PMR on a whimsical topic is introduced.\n\nUnlike a real parliamentary government, the BCYP \"government\" cannot fall if it loses a vote on what would otherwise be a vote of confidence, such as a money bill or a motion of non-confidence.\n\nDuring the week that the BCYP meets in the Legislature, the members elect a new Premier, Leader of the Opposition and Deputy Speaker for the next legislative year.\n\nOn the last day of the annual sitting of the BCYP, a Prorogation ceremony is held. As part of the ceremony, the Lieutenant Governor (a person appointed by the Premier, usually a prominent person in the community) signs all approved bills into \"law\". After the December sittings, the members become the organization's own \"civil service\" and implement the community service projects legislated at the session. Legislation passed at the session is subject to review by the organization's Senate.\n\nFor most of the BCYP's history, the legislative year was referred to a \"session\"; however, in the mid-1990s the BCYP began referring to the annual session as a \"parliament\", in keeping with Parliamentary tradition.\n\nThe BCYP models itself on the Westminster Parliamentary system. The BCYP is sponsored by the Youth Parliament of B.C. Alumni Association. In keeping with the parliamentary structure of the BCYP, the board of directors of the Alumni Association is referred to as the \"Senate\".\n\nThe BCYP itself is led by a cabinet appointed by the Premier-elect. The Premier-elect also appoints various other officers, such as a Lieutenant Governor, a Speaker, a Clerk of the Legislative Assembly, and a Sergeant-At-Arms, among others. The legislative year for a Premier and their cabinet runs from September 15 to September 14 of the following year. The Premier and Cabinet plan the government's legislative plan and prepare the bills for consideration at the December sitting of the BCYP.\n\nMembers of the BCYP are not elected to the Youth Parliament. Instead, potential members apply for the limited number of available positions. Applicants must be nominated by an organization that supports youth activities (i.e., community, school, or church club or group). The applicants are then selected by a committee made up of representatives of the Senate and the BCYP cabinet. The selection committee attempts to ensure that all parts of the province are represented. This includes selecting at least one applicant from each of the real ridings for the actual provincial legislature (subject to there being an applicant from that riding). At the December sitting, all members will be assigned to a riding. Members who come from a riding that is over-represented (usually from one of the larger urban centres) may be assigned a riding from which no applications were submitted. Otherwise, some ridings may have two or more members.\n\nThe purpose of the Older Boys' Parliament (OBP) in its early years was to recommend changes and additions to the \"Canadian Standards Efficiency Training\" (CSET) programme (see History, below) and to promote Christian boys life. Its legislation usually consisted of recommendations made to the Boys' Work Board of British Columbia (\"BWBBC\") (see History, below) rather than its own programmes, and occasional resolutions on social issues (such as temperance and school curricula).\n\nDuring the 1950s, the OBP began to develop a more service-oriented programme run by its own members rather than working with programmes run by other organizations (the exception to this being camps). Projects included annual hobby shows, athletic competitions, leadership training programmes, and work with handicapped youth.\n\nThe OBP's social service programme expanded in the 1960s, with more work with the handicapped, delinquent boys, book drives, and food drives. The OBP's project for Canada's Centennial was to help finance and build a church and meeting hall on a Nitinagt Indian Reserve on Vancouver Island.\n\nIn 1981, the BCYP funded and constructed a playground for children living at Skeena Terrace, a provincially sponsored subsidized housing project at Cassiar and Broadway in Vancouver.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Youth Parliament projects expanded to include educational workshops, youth oriented conferences, and the Regional Youth Parliament (RYP) program. Projects introduced in the 2000s include summer youth festivals and essay contests. In 2005, the BCYP established a youth conference known as \"The Stand\".\n\nIn 1959 the OBP created the Observers Program. The purpose of this program was to give potential members an idea of what OBP did before joining, to provide a \"sounding board\" to members for feedback, and as a means of reducing high turnover in OBP as becoming a member would become something to work for above observer status. Observers, aged 15 to 16, attended the entire session, and took part in all activities except sitting in the Legislative Chambers. The Observer program ended in 1973, at which time the Older Boys' Parliament became the Youth Parliament.\n\nWhile camping had been a steady part of the OBP program since its inception, the OBP had always participated in the operation of camps run by other organizations, but never its own. This changed in December 1967 when the 37th Session legislated Camp Phoenix. That first Camp Phoenix was held at Camp George Pringle in the summer of 1968, with 36 underprivileged and handicapped boys in attendance.\n\nCamp Phoenix expanded over the decades to serve both boys and girls. For a number of years, Camp Phoenix was held in August every year, often at a different location in British Columbia each year. Camp Phoenix was funded and organized by the BCYP members, with a few key positions at the camp itself (such as medical staff and camp director) held by alumni or other adults. From the first camp through 2010, approximately 1500 children attended Camp Phoenix. In 2011, BCYP decided not to hold Camp Phoenix. During 2014, BCYP operated an afternoon day-camp program as a potential replacement for Camp Phoenix, known as \"Project Phoenix.\" At the 86th Session in December 2014, BCYP re-established the Ministry of Project Phoenix to formally oversee the new program, called \"Project Phoenix\". Based upon the success of Project Phoenix, at the 87th Session in December 2015, the BCYP re-established the Ministry of Camp Phoenix and the membership passed legislation enabling Camp Phoenix. Camp Phoenix occurred in August 2016 at Deep Cove, British Columbia.\n\nIn 1937, in an attempt to expand the number of people that could be involved, the OBP experimented by attempting to hold three separate parliaments around the province, instead of the one in Victoria. As a result of the hiatus during World War II, and the effort to rebuild the OBP in the late 1940s, no real thought was given to regional parliaments until the 1960s. During the late 1960s, into 1970, the Older Boys' Parliament made efforts to establish a regional program, but a program of regional parliaments never came to fruition.\n\nThe current form of the RYPs originated in 1987, when a pilot RYP was held in Creston, British Columbia for the Kootenay region. Legislation formally establishing a RYP program was introduced at the 60th Session in 1989. As before, a primary goal of the RYP program was to increase the number of young people who could participate in the BCYP. Since then, RYPs have been established throughout the province. The oldest RYP currently in existence is the Vancouver Youth Parliament, which has run without interruption since 1988. While a number of the early RYPs are defunct, the current Regional Youth Parliaments include:\n\n\nLike most other Youth Parliaments in Canada, the BCYP has its origins in the \"boys work\" movement of the YMCA of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. \"Boys' work\" was meant to answer the need for activities for young men who worked by day but were idle by night. Various programs came and went, often incorporating a dominant YMCA philosophy of the \"four-fold\" development of the physical, mental, spiritual and social well-being of the person, based upon : \"And Jesus grew in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.\"\n\nTaylor Statten, a Boer War recruit who joined the YMCA as a means of continuing his physical fitness activities upon military discharge, was driven by his ambition to design a proper boys' work program with the Toronto YMCA, attending various national boys conferences. In 1912, Statten became the Boys' Work Secretary on the national YMCA executive. Borrowing from both Canadian and American YMCA programs, and aspects of the Boy Scouts, Statten established the \"Canadian Standards Efficiency Training\" program, a system of graded tests where boys passed from one level to the next. These standards were borrowed from the \"four-fold\" philosophy.\n\nUnder the CSET program came the Trail Rangers (boys 12 - 14) and TUXIS (ages 15 – 17). A similar program for girls known as the Canadian Girls in Training were formed a number of years later. The popularity of the CSET program was such that boys' work soon became a virtually separate movement within the YMCA\n\nIn 1916 Statten embarked on a \"Coast to Coast Tour\" to promote the CSET program, which included a stop in Vancouver. It was on this tour that Statten first envisioned a national boys conference, modelled on various regional conferences promoting boys' work. Statten believed in letting the boys determine their own priorities, and his idea soon developed into the concept of a boys' Parliament. However, the National Boys' Work Board considered this beyond their capability, at least during the Great War, which was being waged at the time. Fortunately, the Ontario BWB was interested, and Statten organized the first Ontario TUXIS & Older Boys' Parliament in 1917.\n\nDue to the program's success, Statten encouraged the involvement of the churches, in order to reach even more boys in Canada. Various Protestant churches became involved, and a National Boys' Work Board was established with an executive body made up of YMCA and church representatives. In 1921 an independent Boys' Work Board was established, as the YMCA preferred to take a lesser role in a movement that was diverting too much attention and resources from other Y programs.\n\nThe first Older Boys' Parliament of British Columbia was held in January 1924. The Premier was Walter S. Owen, who later became the Lieutenant Governor of B.C. (1973–1978). The new organization was donated its mace, which is still used today, by St. Andrews Presbyterian (now the United Church), where Owen's TUXIS group met.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, a number of serious issues faced the OBP. These included lower financial resources. The OBP's ability to use the Legislative Chambers of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in the capital city of Victoria was threatened by those offended by the OBP allowing Asian members to attend. Before World War II, the OBP decided to experiment with holding its session outside of Victoria. A proposed session under this plan in New Westminster in 1937 had to be cancelled. Another planned experiment was to hold the OBP biannually, with regional Parliaments in alternate years. It is certain this practice would have continued were it not for the occurrence of World War II.\n\nWhile the 15th Session in 1939 prorogued with full intention of holding a Session in 1940, the OBP did not meet during World War II. By war's end, the TUXIS movement had diminished and the National Boys' Work Board was in a weak state of affairs. It took the Boys' Work Secretary for the United Church, Rev. Robert McLaren, to revive the OBP. Through his efforts, the pre-war partners who sponsored Parliament (Protestant churches and YMCA) joined forces to establish a Parliamentary Convention in Vancouver to rebuild the organization. It is in this period where the United Church began to have its greatest influence on the OBP.\n\nDelegates from around B.C. attended this conference, which expanded to include representatives of other boys' groups such as Scouts and the Boys' Brigade. This expansion of OBP's base encouraged the boys to debate expanding its membership to include all religious denominations and boys' groups in the OBP and truly become a representative Parliament. This movement this was effectively quashed by McLaren and other church leaders.\n\nThe 1940s were an unstable period for the OBP, with a \"senate\" (as its sponsoring organization was called) existing in name only and a weak premier who had to be replaced soon after the 16th Session. Key alumni and strong premiers with good cabinets carried the OBP through the late 1940s when a proper \"Senate\" and well founded Parliament were established.\n\nIt was during this period that the OBP was held in Vancouver. Only one session between 1945 and 1955 sat in the provincial legislature. Despite invitations from the government, organizers found it easier to plan sessions for the fledgling parliament in Vancouver, usually at the University of British Columbia in Union College (now the Vancouver School of Theology) or the U.B.C. Law School Building.\n\nSince the 5th Session of the OBP, resolutions had been introduced to admit girls as members. By the 1960s the Canadian Girls in Training efforts to participate in the Older Boys' Parliament were taken up by the media, spearheaded by the \"Victoria Times\" newspaper columnist Elizabeth Forbes. By the late 1960s the issue was being taken more seriously by the OBP, but there was strong opposition from the \"Senate\", which vetoed a resolution passed by the OBP in 1971 to allow girls to join. Some of the \"Older Boys\" who opposed admitting women went as far as to organize a separate \"Older Girls' Parliament\" to meet during the Easter break.\n\nAt this same time, there was a movement to expand the constituent membership of the Boys' Parliament beyond the select churches providing members at the time. For example, by the late 1960s, there had been Lutheran, Jewish, and Catholic members of the OBP. These boys qualified for membership in the OBP by associating themselves with youth groups connected to the sponsoring organizations of the OBP.\n\nWith the election of the New Democratic Party under Dave Barrett in the 1972 provincial election, pressure came from the provincial government to open the membership of the Boys' Parliament to all or face losing the use of the legislative buildings. Thus the B.C. Youth Parliament came into being for the 44th Session in 1974. The new organization was non-denominational and membership was open to boys and girls. The first female Premier was Susan Hunter of the 49th Session in 1977.\n\nAs a part of the re-organization in 1974, the Youth Parliament of B.C. Alumni Association was formed and acts as the BCYP's \"Senate\". The Senate ensures a session is held annually, reviews the legislation passed by the Youth Parliament, and when necessary assists the Youth Parliament in its community service programs and other events.\n\nDevelopments in the 1980s saw Taylor Statten's dreams of 1916 come to fruition with the formation of the Youth Parliament of Canada in 1980. The Western Canada Youth Parliament (WCYP) was also formed during this time period. While the Youth Parliament of Canada has since collapsed, after seven sessions over ten years, the WCYP continues on a bi-annual basis.\n\nA key event in BCYP history was the \"Vernon Conference\" held in 1985. The BCYP organized and hosted this youth conference to celebrate the United Nations International Year of the Youth. Members of the TUXIS Parliament of Alberta and the Junior Statesmen of America were invited to participate. This conference was a new concept for the BCYP. It provided the BCYP with the experience and inspiration to attempt new projects beyond community service projects and camps. More and larger projects, such as RYPs, were possible.\n\nIn the 1990s, with increasing costs of running BCYP's annual Session and holding Camp Phoenix, both the Senate and Youth Parliament became increasingly concerned with fundraising and the long-term financial health of the organization. Starting with a $5,000 bequest from Walter S. Owen, the Senate instituted a fundraising campaign between 1991 and 1993. The campaign raised $75,000 in donations from alumni, service organizations, and corporations. The Vancouver Foundation matched that amount, to establish the Walter S. Owen Fund.\n\nAt that same time, the BCYP undertook new fundraising initiatives, such as holding a dinner-dance and \"Dream Auction\" in 1992. The auction subsequently evolved through various formats, to become a major annual fundraising event for Youth Parliament.\n\nWalter Stewart Owen, 22nd Lieutenant Governor of British Columbia\n\nLinda Reid, 37th Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia\n\nRussell Brown, Puisne Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada\n\nStephen Doughty, British Member of Parliament for Cardiff South and Penarth\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798592", "title": "Vehicular cycling", "text": "Vehicular cycling\n\nVehicular cycling (also known as bicycle driving) is the practice of riding bicycles on roads in a manner that is in accordance with the principles for driving in traffic, and in a way that places responsibility for safety on the individual.\n\nThe phrase \"vehicular cycling\" was coined by John Forester in the 1970s. In his book \"Effective Cycling\", Forester contends that \"Cyclists fare best when they act and are treated as drivers of vehicles\". \n\nThese techniques have been adopted by the League of American Bicyclists and other organizations teaching safe riding courses for cyclists. As a method for strong and confident riders to cope with fast motor traffic, many recommendations of vehicular cycling are widely applied. Vehicular cycling has at times been controversial, particularly on larger roads not designed for bikes.\n\nA vehicular cyclist is one that travels within the roadway in accordance with the basic vehicular rules of the road that are shared by all drivers and adhering to traffic controls. Vehicular cyclists, Forester advises, should feel and act like vehicle drivers, and should smoothly and safely flow with other vehicles.\n\nIn \"Effective Cycling\", Forester introduced what he calls \"the five basic principles of cycling in traffic\".\n\n\"Lane control\" is the practice of controlling a lane (also known as \"using the full lane\" or \"taking the lane\") to enhance safety. Controlling the lane is asserting control of the space one needs to be much more conspicuous (as compared to riding relatively inconspicuously near the road edge) to traffic ahead as well as behind, to be further from edge hazards, to preclude another vehicle from passing dangerously close within the same lane, and encouraging drivers of overtaking vehicles to change lanes when they pass.\n\nDue to the relatively narrow nature of bicycles, road lanes are sometimes wide enough to allow them to safely share lanes side by side with motor vehicles. In lanes where this is possible, vehicular cycling suggests riding about to the outside of overtaking traffic and about the same distance from roadside hazards such as the gutter seam. Cyclists can also filter forward past stopped motor traffic. Where they exist, wide outside lanes may also be shared in order to facilitate being overtaken by faster traffic.\n\nWhen riding in a lane sharing position, vehicular cycling specifies that cyclists must yield to overtaking traffic using the other part of the lane, or obtain right-of-way to move over through negotiation before moving laterally into that space.\n\nVehicular cyclists use \"speed positioning\" between intersections. The basic principle is \"slower traffic keeps to the outside; faster traffic to the inside\". When lanes are marked, vehicular cyclists generally operate in the outermost travel lane. When lanes are not marked, vehicular cyclists generally operate as far to the outside of the traveled way as is reasonably efficient and safe.\n\nAs vehicular cyclists approach a junction of ways, the principle of \"destination positioning\" comes into play, and they should position themselves laterally according to their destination (left, straight or right):\n\n\nVehicular cyclists do not avoid riding in bicycle lanes, rather they decide whether to ride in the space demarcated as a bike lane based on their own judgement about safety. They are also advised to stay outside of the door zone; when passing motor vehicles that are parked parallel to the road, no closer than the largest estimated width of an open door, plus some margin for error.\n\nThe cycling skills manual \"Cyclecraft\", the foundation of Bikeability, the UK's national standard for cycle training, defines the terms \"primary riding position\", where the cyclist will be more visible and predictable to motor vehicle traffic, as being in the center of the traffic lane, and \"secondary riding position\" as being to the side of moving traffic, but not closer than from the edge of the road. It states that it is sensible to use the primary riding position as the normal position, only using the secondary riding position when it is safe, reasonable, and necessary to allow faster traffic to pass.\n\nOn multi-lane roadways, some vehicular cyclists ride on the inside of the outermost lane (on the side furthest from the road edge in the lane nearest the road edge), for enhanced visibility to motor vehicle traffic. This position may be indicated by road markings.\n\nCyclists should always be looking back over their shoulders as an essential skill, in order to\n\n\nParticularly in slow traffic, a cyclist's look to the rear may serve as a signal, allowing the cyclist to keep both hands on the handlebar. However, a cyclist may also use a hand signal (arm extended to the side) to request that an overtaking driver make room. The cyclist then follows up with a second look to the rear to assure that the driver has made room.\n\nNegotiation is a technique for cyclists to safely traverse one or more lanes by merging in with the flow of other traffic. The basic method is to negotiate for the use of the adjacent lane, move into that lane, and then repeat the process for any additional lanes. The cyclist moves only when there is a natural gap in motor traffic to move into, or after someone slows down explicitly to allow them to move over.\n\nThe steps of the process for each lane change are:\n\nSome have claimed that transportation engineers in the US have become too focused on separating cyclists from pedestrians and motorists. According to an Institute of Transportation Engineers Journal piece by Martin Pion, the implementation of bike lanes can limit competent cyclists perceptions of where it is permitted to cycle. He also notes some sport cyclists prefer to ride in lane, compared with a parallel path, because it reduces the risk of collision with side turning motorists assuming there is not a strong separation of road users.\n\nThe movement surrounding vehicular cycling has also been criticized for its effect on bicycle advocacy in general. In \"Pedaling Revolution\", Jeff Mapes states that Forester \"fought bike lanes, European-style cycletracks, and just about any form of traffic calming\", and \"saw nothing wrong with sprawl and an auto-dependent lifestyle.\" Zack Furness is highly critical of vehicular cyclists in \"One Less Car: Bicycling and the Politics of Automobility\", arguing that their criticism of 'political' cyclists \"totally ignores all the relevant socioeconomic, physical, material, and cultural factors that influence—and in most cases dictate—everyday transportation choices.\" Critical Mass co-founder Chris Carlsson describes vehicular cycling as a naïve, polarizing \"ideology\" that \"essentially advocates bicyclists should strive to behave like cars on the streets of America.\" The makeup of vehicular cycling advocates as a group in the United States was criticized in the 1990s for being typically club cyclists that are well educated, upper-middle income or wealthy, suburban, and white, representing a social and economic elite that are able to dominate public discussions of cycle planning issues. Vehicular cyclists have also been disproportionately male. In the US, males make up 88% of total cyclist fatalities. \n\nThe rise of cell phone distracted driving has increased the chance that if a motorist is drifting into a shoulder or bike lane, it is because they aren’t paying attention. Accordingly, if a cyclist attempts to ride where a motorist is drifting in order to ‘reclaim their right of way’, it is likely that they won’t be seen. Citing the rise in US crash fatalities, David Dudley at CityLab wrote, ”the swift erosion of America’s driving abilities is yet another reason to admit that the cause of “vehicular cycling”—the safe-biking philosophy that says bikes should ride assertively rather than cower at the side of the road—is increasingly compromised by reality.”\n\nIn the blog Shifter, Tom Babin noted the sharing of road lanes through vehicular cycling was supposed to cause an \"increased level of mutual understanding between motorists and cyclists\". “What happened instead was some hearty bicycle lovers adopted the tenets of vehicular cycling in the way they got around cities… They asserted their rights to the road, and made those cross-traffic left-hand turns that make less confident cyclists gasp in horror. All of which pissed off those drivers who thought they owned the road.” \n\nAs such, Babin believes vehicular cycling has failed to bring about its intended result. Yet, the part of the theory that encourages bikes to be forceful lives on through the actions of its remaining followers.\n\nSegregated cycle facilities exist in some areas, allowing cycling without sharing roads with motorized traffic. Cities that are structured that way report a high degree of bicycle usage and low injury rates, such as in The Netherlands, though correlation does not imply causation. A 2001 study in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada concluded that cyclists found 1 minute of cycling in mixed traffic as onerous as 4.1 minutes on bike lanes or 2.8 minutes on bike paths. A study of cyclists in Washington D.C. found that cyclists were willing to spend on average 20.38 extra minutes per trip to travel on an off-street bicycle trail when the alternative was riding on a street with parked cars. Forester believes segregated cycle facilities to be more dangerous than on-road cycling due to increase risk from crossing conflicts and that, in the case of sidepaths, they can only be used safely by cycling \"very slowly\".\nUrban planning professor John Pucher writes that \"Forester makes a number of theoretical arguments why bikeways are unsafe.\" Forester objects to rejection of his test results.\n\nPucher's various transnational studies of bicycle transportation lead him to conclude that \"the overwhelming evidence is that cycling is much safer and more popular precisely in those countries where bikeways, bike lanes, special intersection modifications, and priority traffic signals are the key to their bicycling policies.\" The authors of a 2009 meta-study on cycle infrastructure safety research at the University of British Columbia similarly conclude that \"in comparison to cycling on bicycle-specific infrastructure (paths, lanes, routes), on-road cycling appears to be less safe.\"\n\nForester objects to Pucher's conclusions, primarily on the grounds that Pucher ascribes the increase in use of bikes and bike safety observed to the bikeways without showing that the bikeways are the actual cause of the increased use or safety.\n\nJennifer Dill and Theresa Carr's research on bicycle transportation in 35 U.S. cities also suggests that \"higher levels of bicycle infrastructure are positively and significantly correlated with higher rates of bicycle commuting\"; and a 2010 study comparing streets in Copenhagen that had had cycle tracks and bicycle lanes added to them found that cycling volume increased 20%. However, on the cycle track streets bicycle accidents increased 10% more than would be expected from the changed bicycle and automobile traffic volumes, making the cycle tracks less safe for cyclists than the unmodified roads. Streets with bicycle lanes added saw a 5% increase in bicycle traffic but a 49% increase in bicycle accidents. Despite this, the study notes that \"the gains in health from increased physical activity [from increased numbers cycling are] much, much greater than the losses in health resulting from a slight decline in road safety.\" Although prior studies did not differentiate between new bike riders and those that had changed routes due to the new facility, recent research has shown that the greater level of protection, the greater number of new bike riders (as opposed to riders who used the route before construction or shifted routes).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798602", "title": "Carlo Giuseppe Guglielmo Botta", "text": "Carlo Giuseppe Guglielmo Botta\n\nCarlo Giuseppe Guglielmo Botta (November 6, 1766 in San Giorgio Canavese, Piedmont – August 10, 1837 in Paris) was an Italian historian.\n\nHe was born at San Giorgio Canavese in Piedmont. He studied medicine at the University of Turin, and obtained his doctors degree when about twenty years old. Having rendered himself obnoxious to the government during the political commotions that followed the French Revolution, he was imprisoned for over a year; and on his release in 1795 he withdrew to France, only to return to his native country as a surgeon in the French army, whose progress he followed as far as Venice. Here he joined the expedition to Corfu, from which he did not return to Italy till 1798. At first he favored French policy in Italy, contributed to the annexation of Piedmont by France in 1799, and was an admirer of Napoleon; but he afterwards changed his views, realizing the necessity for the union of all Italians and for their freedom from foreign control.\n\nAfter the separation of Piedmont from France in 1814, he retired into private life, but, fearing persecution at home, became a French citizen. In 1817 he was appointed rector of the University of Rouen, but in 1822 was removed owing to clerical influence. Amid all the vicissitudes of his early manhood Botta had never allowed his pen to be long idle, and in the political quiet that followed 1816 he naturally devoted himself more exclusively to literature. Botta was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1821. In 1824 he published a history of Italy from 1789 to 1814 (4 vols.), on which his fame principally rests; he himself had been an eyewitness of many of the events described. His continuation of Guicciardini, which he was afterwards encouraged to undertake, is a careful and laborious work, but is not based on original authorities and is of small value.\n\nThough living in Paris, he was in both these works the ardent exponent of that recoil against everything French which took place throughout Europe. A careful exclusion of all Gallicisms, as a reaction against the French influences of the day, is one of the marked features of his style, which is not infrequently impassioned and eloquent, though at the same time cumbrous, involved and ornate.\n\nBotta died at Paris on 10 August 1837, in comparative poverty, but in the enjoyment of an extensive and well-earned reputation.\n\nHis son, Paul-Émile Botta (1802–1870), was a distinguished traveller and Assyrian archaeologist, whose excavations at Khorsabad (1843) were among the first efforts in the line of investigation afterwards pursued by Layard.\n\nThe works of Carlo Botta are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798611", "title": "Mashina", "text": "Mashina\n\nMashina () is an Israeli rock band which was active from 1983 to 1995, and then again from 2003 to the present. The band is considered by many to be Israel's most important and influential rock band. Their musical style took inspiration from ska and hard rock, among others.\n\nMashina was formed by singer Yuval Banai, a member of the noted Banai family. His father, the late Yossi, was an actor and singer, as are uncles Gavri and Ya'akov, along with many of Yuval's cousins. During his army service, Banai met guitar player Shlomi Bracha and the two started playing music together. A friend of theirs, a recent Russian immigrant, suggested they call their band \"\"Machina Vremeni\",\" which means \"time machine\" in Russian (this suggestion may have been inspired by the well-known Russian rock band Mashina Vremeni of the 1960s and 1970s).\n\nAfter the army service the two split up; Banai formed the band \"\"Shlom Ha-Tzibur\"\" (\"Public Safety\"), while Bracha teamed up with bassist Michael Benson to form the band \"\"HaChazit Ha'amamit\"\" (\"The Popular Front\"). In 1984 they decided to combine to form a new band, which they called Mashina, bringing in drummer Iggy Dayan; in 1985, they released their self-titled debut, which quickly became a hit on the Israeli charts. Later, Avner Hodorov joined the band on keyboard and saxophone. They gained widespread popularity in Israel during the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nIn May 1995, the band announced their retirement and put together four heavily-publicized farewell shows. What would have been their fourth and final performance, in Arad, Israel, ended when three of the spectators were crushed to death by the crowd before the band went onstage. The band played another farewell concert several months later at Park HaYarkon, which they dedicated to those three fans.\n\nAfter Mashina broke up, Banai released 3 solo albums: \"Yuval Banai\" (1997), \"Rashi Dub\" (1999) (produced by bass player Yossi Fine) and \"\"Nish'ar BaMakom\"\" (\"Staying in Place\") (2001). Bracha released a solo album, and Benson co-founded the electronic-rock group Atmosfire, which came out with one album.\n\nThe band re-formed in 2003 and began touring and releasing albums again. On October 8, 2006, the band performed at the opening ceremony of the 27th Acco Festival of Alternative Israeli Theatre.\n\nMashina has gone on several North American tours, playing in cities including Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Toronto, Washington and Los Angeles.\n\nBanai and Bracha served as co-mentors on season 2 of \"The Voice Israel\", in 2012-2013.\n\nThe musical growth of Mashina can be mapped to different influences across their albums. Their early sound was obviously imitative of ska bands like Madness; they didn't bother to hide the influence, titling what became one of their earliest hit songs \"\"Rakevet Laila Le-Kahir\"\" (\"Night Train to Cairo\"), an homage to Madness' \"Night Boat to Cairo\", or \"Geveret Sarah Hashchena\" (\"Miss Sarah, the Neighbour\") that copied the theme, music and opening lyrics of Bob Dylan's \"The Hurricane\". Their subsequent albums combined reggae, punk rock and Middle Eastern elements. \"\"Ha'Amuta Le-Heker Hatmuta\"\" (\"The Society for the Study of Mortality\") has sounds influenced by The Cure, \"\"Miflatzot Ha-Tehila\"\" (\"The Monsters of Fame\") has sounds influenced by The Pixies and grunge, \"\"Si Ha-Regesh\"\" (\"Peak of Excitement\") has the blues influence of Pink Floyd, and \"\"Lehitra'ot Ne'urim Shalom Ahava\"\" (\"Goodbye Youth, Hello Love\") presents the anthemic quality of U2 and Simple Minds.\n\nTheir lyrics tend to be cynical, sometimes humorously so. They have common themes of alienation, the struggle of everyday life and a desire for some sort of physical or spiritual escape.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798612", "title": "Botta", "text": "Botta\n\nBotta is a surname. People with this surname can be found in Brazil and in the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798617", "title": "Wally Backman", "text": "Wally Backman\n\nWalter Wayne Backman (born September 22, 1959) is an American former Major League Baseball second baseman. He is best known for his time with the New York Mets from - and was a member of their 1986 World Series-winning team. He was also the former manager for the Las Vegas 51s, the Mets' AAA minor league team, from 2013 to 2016. He served as the bench coach for the Pericos de Puebla of the Mexican Baseball League in 2017. He is currently the manager of the Long Island Ducks of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball.\n\nBackman was the Mets' first round pick in the 1977 Major League Baseball draft (sixteenth overall). He was assigned to the New York–Penn League's Little Falls Mets upon signing, and batted .325 with six home runs in his first professional season. After batting .293 for the triple A Tidewater Tides in , Backman received a September call up to the Mets. Making his major league debut starting at second base against the Los Angeles Dodgers at Dodger Stadium on September 2, Backman got a single in his first at-bat, driving in Claudell Washington for his first major league run batted in.\nAfter battling for three seasons to earn a starting job, Backman finally emerged as the Mets' starting second baseman in . He batted .280, and finished second on the club to Mookie Wilson (46) with 32 stolen bases.\n\nPrior to the start of the season, general manager Frank Cashen brought in Tim Teufel, a right-handed hitting infielder from the Minnesota Twins for Billy Beane, Joe Klink and Bill Latham. He and Backman formed a platoon at second base, and along with Wilson and Lenny Dykstra, provided a \"spark\" at the top of the Mets' line up, and set the table for the heavy hitters who batted behind them.\n\nFor his own part, Backman scored 67 runs, stole 13 bases and batted over .300 (.320) for the first time in his career for the team that won 108 games and took the National League East by 21.5 games. He batted .333 in the World Series against the Boston Red Sox and led off for the Mets in the now famous tenth inning of Game 6 with a fly out to Jim Rice.\n\nBackman and Teufel were still platooning at second base in when the Mets won their division for the second time during Backman's tenure with the team. Backman batted .303 for the division winners, and the Mets won 100 games that season, taking the NL East by fifteen games over the Pittsburgh Pirates. However, the heavily favored Mets lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1988 National League Championship Series. Backman played respectably in the division series (.273 avg., 2 runs, 2 RBIs). However, following the season, the Mets sent him and Mike Santiago to the Minnesota Twins for Jeff Bumgarner, Steve Gasser and Toby Nivens, none of whom emerged as a major leaguer.\n\nBackman under-performed with the Twins, batting only .231 with one home run and 33 runs scored while driving in only 26 in . After only one season in Minnesota, Backman signed as a free agent with the Mets' division rivals, the Pittsburgh Pirates. With slick fielder José Lind already at second base for the Pirates, Backman received most of his playing time backing up Jeff King at third.\n\nThe Pirates opened the against the Mets at Shea Stadium. In front of his former home crowd, Backman went two for five with a single and triple and scored two runs in the Pirates' 12-3 victory over the Mets. Against the San Diego Padres on April 27, Backman accomplished the rare feat of six hits in a nine inning game. For the season, Backman batted .292 and scored 62 runs for a Pirates team that went 95-67, and took the division by four games over the Mets.\n\nBackman spent and with the Philadelphia Phillies. He signed with the 1992 National League Champion Atlanta Braves, for , but failed to make the team out of Spring training. He joined the Seattle Mariners, but was released 38 games into the season with a .138 batting average with only two runs scored in 31 plate appearances.\n\nBackman had a career .980 fielding percentage at second base.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, Backman was inducted into the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame in 2002. In 1998, Backman managed the Bend Bandits of Bend, Oregon during their final season of operations in the Western Baseball League. They finished 2nd in the North Division at 43-46. Backman led the 2002 Birmingham Barons (Chicago White Sox double A Southern League affiliate) to a 79–61 record. In 2004, he led the Lancaster JetHawks, the Arizona Diamondbacks High A team, to an 86–54 record and was named \"Sporting News\" \"Minor League Manager of the Year\".\n\nOn November 1, 2004, Backman was promoted to manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks' major league squad. However, in its story about Backman's hire, \"The New York Times\" reported that Backman had serious legal and financial problems. He had been arrested in 1999 for DUI in Kennewick, Washington as documented on HBO \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\". A year later, he was arrested in connection with an altercation in his home in Prineville, Oregon. In addition, Backman declared bankruptcy to avoid paying over twenty creditors, including the IRS. The Diamondbacks initially stood by him, but fired him on November 5, just four days after his hiring. Managing partner Ken Kendrick admitted that the Diamondbacks had not fully vetted Backman before hiring him. He added that the Diamondbacks only learned about the extent of Backman's problems when the \"Times\" report prompted the team to conduct its own investigation, which revealed that Backman had misled team officials about his past.\n\nBackman began his managerial comeback with the South Georgia Peanuts of the independent South Coast League. His return to managing was documented by the TV series \"Playing for Peanuts\". The Peanuts won their league with a 59–28 record. The South Georgia Peanuts then went on to win the league championship that season under Backman's leadership.\n\nIn December 2007, Backman became manager of the Joliet JackHammers. With the team in sixth place in the Northern League with a 24–42 record, he was fired on July 30, 2009. In October 2009, Backman's name circulated as a likely candidate for the Mets' double A managerial job with the Binghamton Mets; however, the Mets decided instead to promote Teufel from the St. Lucie Mets, and Backman was given the St. Lucie job. Two weeks later, the Mets changed their minds, and Backman was handed the reins to the Brooklyn Cyclones instead. Backman went on to lead the Cyclones to a league-best 51-24 record, winning the McNamara Division of the New York–Penn League by 12 games. However, the Cyclones were ultimately swept by the Tri-City ValleyCats in the league championship series.\n\nBackman was a candidate to replace Jerry Manuel as the New York Mets' major league manager in 2011, having interviewed for the position with new General Manager Sandy Alderson. After a second round of interviews in which Backman was a finalist, however, the position went to Terry Collins. Backman was subsequently named manager of the Mets' double A affiliate, the Binghamton Mets.\n\nIn Backman's first season in Binghamton, the club had a 65-76 record. Backman remained highly regarded in the Mets organization, and was promoted to manager of their AAA affiliate, the Buffalo Bisons for the 2012 season.\n\nIn 2013, Backman managed the Mets' new AAA affiliate, the Las Vegas 51s, leading them to an 81-63 record and winning the Pacific Coast League's Pacific South Division title. Las Vegas lost to Salt Lake three-games-to-one in the Conference Championship Series. Backman returned to the 51s for the 2014 season, and the team once again advanced to the playoffs. On August 29, 2014, Backman was announced as the PCL Manager of the Year.\n\nBackman resigned from the Las Vegas 51s on September 12, 2016. However, in later interviews, Backman claims that he was forced out as manager, and received phone calls telling him that he'd be fired if he didn't resign. Backman told sportswriter Bob Klapisch that the Mets were angered at his perceived mishandling of two top Mets prospects, Michael Conforto and Brandon Nimmo. He also believed that general manager Sandy Alderson and owner Fred Wilpon believed him too independent-minded and outspoken for their liking. Spending the winter getting turned down by many clubs, Backman became convinced that Mets GM Sandy Alderson had \"blackballed\" him, and said a friend had tipped him off that Alderson was working against him. Alderson declined to respond to Backman's allegation, although a member of the organization insisted that despite their differences, Alderson would never go as far as to deliberately sabotage Backman.\n\nIn 2017, Backman signed on as manager of the Acereros de Monclova of the Mexican Baseball League. On May 19, 2017, 42 games into the season, Backman was fired. Shortly after, Backman was hired as the bench coach for the Pericos de Puebla.\n\nBackman was named manager of the New Britain Bees of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball for the 2018 season on November 17th, 2017. On November 28, 2018, Backman was announced as the new manager of the Atlantic League's Long Island Ducks for the 2019 season.\n\nBackman has been described as a players' manager and noted for his \"old school\" style, as well as for his frequent use of humor when delivering news of a promotion to the major leagues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798623", "title": "Dayna Manning", "text": "Dayna Manning\n\nDayna Manning (born April 27, 1978 in Stratford, Ontario) is a Canadian folk and pop singer-songwriter, as well as a producer and sound engineer. As a teenager she released her first album, \"Volume 1,\" on EMI and Nettwerk, with featured musicians including Sean Lennon and Melanie Doane. A single from the album reached #15 on the MuchMusic top hits chart in Canada, and she was nominated for the 1998 Juno Award for Best New Artist.\n\nShe performed at the first Lilith Fair, and her second album, \"Shades\", was released in 2002 to positive reviews. After releasing her third album \"Folkyo,\" Manning joined the folk trio Trent Severn in 2011, along with Emm Gryner and Laura Bates, who was later replaced by Lindsay Schindler. In 2013 they released their debut, \"Trent Severn,\" and the band was nominated for two 2013 Canadian Folk Music Awards\". \"Trent Severn has released two follow up albums, \"Trillum\" (2015) and \"Portage\" (2017), both produced and engineered by Manning. \"Trillium\" made the Longer List for the 2016 Polaris Music Prize\".\"\n\nDayna Manning was born in Stratford, Ontario, Canada on April 27, 1978, to David Manning, a music teacher, and Darlene Manning. One night while babysitting, Manning found a guitar in the house and used it to write her first song, \"Walk On The Moon.\" Years later the track was included on her debut album. According to Manning, \"I always did [songwriting] completely on my own. It is very personal to me.\" While she has learned to play a number of instruments, early on Manning primarily focused on vocals and guitar, with her guitar of choice a handmade McConville Acoustic.\n\nBefore releasing a record and while still a teenager, Manning opened for Burton Cummings's \"Up Close and Alone\" tour in Canada, and she has stated that Cummings was a significant influence on how she handled herself in the industry. Set to self-produce her first album at the age of 16, she was discovered by Honeymoon Suite keyboardist Ray Coburn at a showcase at Lee's Palace in Toronto; after two live performances for EMI executives, the label signed Manning to a record deal.\n\n\"Volume 1\", her debut album, was released on April 15, 1997 by EMI Music Canada and on August 26th 1997Nettwerk in the United States. Manning and Ray Coburn produced and performed; other featured musicians included Melanie Doane, Harry Hess, Sean Lennon, and Manning's parents, Darlene and David Manning, on clarinet and trumpet respectively. Stephen Drake, of Canadian rock band Odds, mixed the album.\n\nHer first single and video, \"Half the Man,\" was downcast, mournful and heavily folk-inflected; nonetheless it became a strong hit on Canadian radio and MuchMusic, and the follow-up track, \"My Addiction\" was also successful, peaking at #14 on MuchMusic. She was nominated for the 1998 Juno Award for Best New Artist.\n\nAfter her first release she toured Canada and North America for two years, performing on the first and second season of Lilith Fair and with Lisa Loeb, Spirit of the West, 54-40, Joe Cocker, and opening for Radiohead.\n\n\"Shades\", her second album with EMI, was released in late 2002. It was recorded in Los Angeles at Cello Studios with Red Hot Chili Peppers engineer Jim Scott, and with additional production by Dave Hodge. Some of the musicians who played on the album included Chad Smith of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, session musician Bob Glaub, Neal Casal, John Ginty, Don Heffington, and Greg Leisz.\n\nThe album was criticized in some reviews for a production-heavy sound that took away from Manning's own voice and potential. Other reviews were more favorable, praising the album's aural ambience and Manning's talent for introspective lyrics. The song \"Miracle\" was released as a single and video.\n\nManning's tracks have been included on a number of compilations. Her live track \"I Want,\" recorded at the original Lilith Fair in Vancouver in 1997, was included on two Lilith Fair compilations, one in 1998 and one in 2000. She contributed \"I Know How The Moon Must Feel\" to the 2000 soundtrack for the film \"Thomas and the Magic Railroad\". Her 2002 single \"Miracle\" was included on the WEA International compilation \"Women & Songs 6\", which also included tracks by artists such as Vanessa Carlton, Madonna, and Sheryl Crow. The compilation, released in December 2002, became the best-selling album in the \"Women & Songs\" franchise, and reached #7 on the Top Canadian Albums chart. A year later her version of \"Silent Night,\" performed by Damhnait Doyle, was released on \"Women & Songs Christmas\".\n\nAfter eight years Manning parted ways with EMI. Her third album, \"Folkyo\", was released on December 19, 2006, and saw Manning write, co-produce, engineer and perform. She released the album on her own label, LeParc Records, and even raised funds to finish production by working at a construction camp in Northern British Columbia for the Winter of 2006. Collaborators included Ian Brown from Matthew Good Band and Christian Thor-Valdson from Copyright. \"Folkyo\" received positive reviews, praising the album's musical intricacy and Manning's voice and writing, as well as its complex tones and clever lyrics.\n\nAccording to a \"Toronto Quarterly\" article in 2012, \"[Manning's] songwriting is sincere and superbly crafted, her finger-picking skills are unmatched and her voice is truly unmistakable with a timbre that reminds one of Roy Forbes, Joni Mitchell and Dolly Parton all at once.\"\n\nIn 2011 Canadian singer-songwriter Emm Gryner approached Manning about forming a folk band, and Manning's childhood friend and violinist Laura C. Bates joined soon thereafter. They named the trio Trent Severn, after Trent-Severn Waterway in Southern Ontario. All three women contribute to the songwriting and the vocals, while Manning plays banjo or guitar, and frequently reference Canadian culture and landscapes in their music. They sold out a number of their early shows, also playing on CBC Radio's \"Q\".\n\nThey released their self-titled debut album on Nov 6, 2012. Manning wrote four of the songs on the album: \"Road Less Traveled,\" \"Freedom,\" \"Mulroney Times,\" and \"Truscott.\" The album received heavy airplay on CBC Radio, and reviews were generally positive. \"Post City\" praised the balanced feel between tracks, stating \"For the most part, the album [has a] laid-back, twangy trend, punctuated by a couple of fast-paced and upbeat numbers here and there. The result is a warmly nostalgic record padded with darkly pensive instrumentation.\"\n\nThe band was nominated for two 2013 Canadian Folk Music Awards. Manning tours frequently with Trent Severn and plays both large and small events, many informal and outdoors. In 2013 Manning arranged an original folk version of \"O Canada\" with three part vocal harmony, which she performed with Trent Severn at the flag raising ceremony on Parliament Hill, Ottawa on July 1, 2013.\n\nOn March 15, 2013, they became the first band to receive a phone call to a concert from space, when they played a live song for Commander Chris Hadfield while he was on the international space station. On Canada Day of that year the band was part of Hadfield's first performance back on earth, of \"Space Oddity\" by David Bowie.\n\nManning lives in Stratford, Ontario, Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798626", "title": "Poor Old Lu", "text": "Poor Old Lu\n\nPoor Old Lu was a pioneering alternative Christian band based in the American Northwest. The band experimented with a variety of sounds and genres, particularly grunge, funk and psychedelic rock. The band consisted of Scott Hunter (vocals), Jesse Sprinkle (drums), Aaron Sprinkle (guitar), and Nick Barber (bass). Hunter was the lyricist who wrote on philosophical, metaphorical, and spiritually oriented topics. Common themes in the lyrics include introspective struggles with identity and spirituality, struggles with a superficial, secular, and modern society, and hope for life abundant. The \"Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music\" calls the band \"One of the most accomplished and creative Christian bands of the '90s\".\n\nThe name refers to \"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\", in which Lucy ('Lu'), returns from Narnia and tells her brother, Peter. Peter doesn't believe her story, however, and responds patronizingly, \"Poor old Lu, hiding and nobody noticed.\"\n\nWhile sophomores in high school, Barber, Aaron Sprinkle, and Hunter started a band called \"Bellbangvilla,\" composed an album named 'In Love with the Greenery,' and performed shows around the Seattle, WA area. A few months later, Jesse Sprinkle joined the group, and the band changed its name to Poor Old Lu, and recorded its first album under the new band name, entitled \"Three Song Demo\".\n\nIn the spring of 1992, they recorded their first full-length release, \"Star-Studded-Super-Step\" in three days in an empty classroom in their church. The Sprinkle's father gave the recording to Randy Stonehill, who in turn passed it on to Terry Taylor, who approached Frontline/Alarma Records. In the summer in 1993, the band recorded \"Mindsize\". This album, produced by Terry Taylor and Derri Daugherty, turned out to be their breakthrough.\n\nThe following summer, the band recruited engineer/producer John Goodmanson, and \"Sin\" was recorded and released in 1994.\n\nIn late spring of 1995, Poor Old Lu recorded the \"Straight Six\" EP (which featured Jeremy Enigk of Sunny Day Real Estate on one track). In early spring of 1996, Poor Old Lu recorded \"A Picture of the Eighth Wonder\". In late 1996 the band broke up, playing their farewell concert in Seattle, Washington in November 1996. This concert was recorded and in 1998 was released as \"In Their Final Performance\".\n\nIn 2002 the band reunited and recorded \"The Waiting Room\" for Tooth and Nail Records. In support of this release the band reunited for a number of shows in 2002, playing at select venues in Seattle as well as a few select Christian music festivals that included Cornerstone, TomFest and Purple Door.\n\nAfter the group's initial break-up, band members moved on to independent projects. In 1997 Nick Barber joined with Aaron Sprinkle in the group Rose Blossom Punch. Nick Barber played in the bands Meekin Pop and Blue Collar Love. By the time Rose Blossom Punch split up, Aaron Sprinkle had started a solo career. He has release 7 albums since 1999. In 2005 Aaron Sprinkle formed the band Fair with Joey Sanchez, Nick Barber and Erik Newbill.\n\nJesse Sprinkle moved to New York. He ran the recording studio the Illuminata in Dansville, New York until early 2006, when the studio closed. He opened a new studio, Bluebrick Recordings, in 2007. He has played drums in a number of bands, including Morella's Forest, Demon Hunter and Dead Poetic. He has also recorded a number of solo albums.\n\nIn a December 2006 update on the Poor Old Lu website Hunter announced he had started a new band, This Diminishing West. While the band promised a debut sometime in early 2007, the band broke up after releasing an EP online.\n\nPoor Old Lu reunited in 2011 for an acoustic house show.\n\nIn 2013 the group gathered to record one song, \"The Great Unwound\". It was written and released in support of \"Paradise Uganda\", a ministry of Jesse Sprinkle. No statements about future releases were made.\n\nIn 2014 the group recorded a Christmas song with Vekora: \"The Brightest Star\".\n\n\n\n\nA few of Poor old Lu's more notable songs include:\n"}
{"id": "1798631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798631", "title": "Tom Campbell Black", "text": "Tom Campbell Black\n\nTom Campbell Black (December 1899 – 19 September 1936) was an English aviator.\n\nHe was the son of Alice Jean McCullough and Hugh Milner Black. He became a world-famous aviator when he and C. W. A. Scott won the London to Melbourne Centenary Air Race in 1934.\n\nTom Campbell Black attended Brighton College and the records for the period summer 1915 to summer 1917 indicate that he entered Hampden House, May 1915, was appointed House Prefect, January 1917 and played Second XI Football, 1915 to 1916 and 1916 to 1917. Campbell Black attended Army Class II and entered the RN College at Greenwich and attained a commission in the R.N.A.S. (Naval Air Service). He served first as a pilot in the Naval Air Service and later in the RAF during the Great War, rising to the rank of Captain. Arriving in Africa as a soldier settler in 1922, he joined his brother, Frank Milner Black, who had been stationed as a soldier in Kenya and decommissioned in 1920. Black family history has it that Tom and his brother managed a coffee plantation in British East Africa, in the 1920s. Their farm was between the towns of Rongai and Eldama Ravine, in the Rift Valley, about northwest of Nairobi. Tom was a noted horseman who was an award-winning show jumper, winning a competition in 1925. He later bred and raised race horses, which remained a passion of his throughout his life.\n\nIt is stated in the Shuttleworth Collection Records, England, that an aircraft currently in their collection, a de Havilland DH.51, was built in 1925 and shortly after John Evans Carberry bought and shipped it to Mombasa. The DH.51 first flew in Africa on 4 April 1926. In June 1928, Tom Campbell Black, G. Skinner and A. Hughes bought the aircraft and on 10 September 1928, it became the first aircraft to be registered in Kenya. Named \"Miss Kenya\", it was first registered G-KAA, but with the change in the registration system, it was re-registered VP-KAA.\n\nAfter flying with Campbell Black in February 1929, Florence Kerr Wilson was encouraged by his enthusiasm to form Wilson Airways Ltd., in Kenya. At inception later in the same year, her airline possessed a single Gypsy Moth aircraft, primarily piloted by Campbell Black. The airline grew into a comprehensive air carrier across Kenya. Captain Hugo Dunkerley, the Editor of \"Aeroken\" and the Special Correspondent of the \"East African Standard\", accompanied Campbell Black in the first flight from Nairobi to Mombasa and back in a single day, on 21 November 1929. He also accompanied Tom in November 1930 on a roundtrip flight from Nairobi to Dar es Salaam, Mombasa, and back to Nairobi in just over nine hours. Tom Campbell Black was the Managing Director/Chief Pilot of Wilson Airways, but in March 1932, he resigned from Wilson Airways and left Kenya to take up an employment offer made by Lord Marmaduke Furness, a renowned horse breeder, to be his personal pilot and live back in England.\n\nWhile the company was profitable, Wilson Airways was disbanded in 1939 with the outbreak of the Second World War.\n\nIn the 20 October 1934 Time Magazine report of the London to Melbourne Air Race, a mention is made of an incident that happened concerning Black: \"Captain T. Campbell Black [was] famed for his spectacular rescue of Ernst Udet, German War Ace, in the desert wastes of the treacherous Nile country three years ago.\" A reference to this act is found in Ernst Udet's \"Ace of the Iron Cross\".\n\nAn account of the rescue follows: \n\nIn 1934, Campbell Black and C. W. A. Scott were entered in the London to Melbourne Air Race, officially known as the \"MacRobertson Air Race\". Recorded as \"Captain T. Campbell Black\" in the starters list for the race, Campbell Black and C. W. A. Scott won the \"Speed Section\" of the race in an extraordinary time of 71 hours, and won the First Place Prize of 10,000 pounds. They also won the \"Handicap Section\" but the race rules didn't allow them to win the two sections. Black and Scott were awarded \"The Britannia Trophy\" and a Gold Medal by the Royal Aero Club, England, presented \"\"For the British Aviator or Aviators accomplishing the most meritorious performance in aviation during the previous year.\"\"\n\nThe following report was made on an air race held at the Isle of Man: Manx Air Race 1932. Held Saturday, 18 June, total Island course: . At the end of the two laps it was Ashwell Cook with Tom Campbell Black as navigator, who came through to win in a Cirrus Moth aircraft averaging . The following references to Tom Black are recorded in the history of \"Firbeck Hall\", an elegant country home in England dating from circa 1585, that in the mid-1930s was converted into one of the country's most exclusive sporting country clubs.\n\nCampbell Black also had a long-term affair with Beryl Markham, an aviator who lived in Kenya who had been introduced to aviation by Campbell Black. He subsequently became her flight instructor, which Markham describes in her memoir \"West with the Night\". In September 1936, Beryl Markham achieved fame by being the first solo female aviator to fly the Atlantic Ocean from East to West (from England to America), against the prevailing winds.\n\nIn the same year, Tom Campbell Black had entered an air race from England to Johannesburg, South Africa, \"The Schlesinger Race\", flown from 29 September 1936 to 1 October 1936, the race offered a prize of £10,000 to the winner. Campbell Black was one of the three favourites to win the race, all flying Percival E2H Mew Gulls.\n\nOn 19 September 1936, while preparing for the race, he was killed at Liverpool, Speke Airport, in a ground collision. A RAF bomber that had landed ran into Black's Mew Gull as he taxied out for take off. Black was reputed to have been looking down at his map at the time. The propeller of the large biplane tore through the side of Black's cockpit, striking and mortally wounding him in the chest and shoulder. He died on the way to hospital. He left a widow, the English actress Florence Desmond, whom he had married in 1935.\n\nThe winners of the \"Schlesinger Race\" were C. W. A. Scott, (Black's co-pilot in the 1934 MacRoberts Race) and Giles Guthrie.\n\nThe following is a transcript of \"Incidents Report at Speke Airport\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1798644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798644", "title": "Markos Botsaris", "text": "Markos Botsaris\n\nMarkos Botsaris (, c. 1788 – 21 August 1823) was a Greek general and hero of the Greek War of Independence and captain of the Souliotes. Botsaris is among the most revered national heroes in Greece.\n\nBotsaris was born into one of the leading clans of the Souliotes, in the region of Souli, Epirus. He was the second son of captain Kitsos Botsaris, who was murdered in Arta in 1809 under the orders of Ali Pasha. The Botsaris clan came from the village of Dragani (today Ambelia), near Paramythia.\n\nIn 1803, after the capture of Souli by Ali Pasha, Botsaris and the remnants of the Souliotes crossed over to the Ionian Islands, where he served in the Albanian Regiment of the French army for 11 years and became one the regiment's officers. There, in Corfu, since 1809 he started learning Greek.\n\nIn 1814, he joined the Greek patriotic society known as the Filiki Eteria. In 1820, with other Souliots, he came back to Epirus and fought against Ali Pasha in the Ottoman army at the Siege of Ioannina, but soon the Souliotes changed side and fought the Ottoman army with the troops of Ali Pasha, in exchange of their former region, the Souli.\n\nIn 1821, Botsaris took part in the revolution against the Ottoman Empire. He and other Souliot captains, including Kitsos Tzavelas, Notis Botsaris, Lampros Veikos, and Giotis Danglis only enlisted fellow Souliot kin into their bands. At the outbreak of the Greek War of Independence, he distinguished himself by his courage, tenacity and skill as a partisan leader in the fighting in western Greece, and was conspicuous in the defence of Missolonghi during the first siege of the city (1822–1823).\n\nOn the night of 21 August 1823 he led the celebrated attack on Karpenisi by 350 Souliots, against around 3,000 Ottoman Albanian troops who formed the vanguard of the army with which Mustafa Pasha, the Pasha of Shkoder (modern northern Albania) and advanced to reinforce the besiegers. Botsaris' men ambushed the enemy camp and inflicted serious casualties, but Botsaris was shot in the head and killed.\n\nBotsaris was buried with full honors in Missolonghi. After the Ottomans captured the city, in 1826, his grave was desecrated by Ottoman Albanian groups.\n\nMany of his family members became key figures of the Greek political establishment. Markos' brother Kostas (Constantine) Botsaris, who also fought at Karpenisi and completed the victory, lived on to become a respected Greek general and parliamentarian in the Greek kingdom. He died in Athens on 13 November 1853. Markos's son, Dimitrios Botsaris, born in 1813, was three times minister of war during the reigns of Otto of Greece and George I of Greece. He died in Athens on 17 August 1870. His daughter, Katerina \"Rosa\" Botsari, was in the service of Queen Amalia of Greece.\n\nMarkos' son, Dimitrios Botsaris became three times Minister of War of Greece, under Kings Otto and George I.\n\nEvangelis Zappas, the renowned benefactor and founder of the modern Olympic Games, was the aide-de-camp and close friend of Markos Botsaris.\n\nMany Philhellenes visiting Greece had admired Botsaris' courage and numerous poets wrote poems about him. American poet Fitz-Greene Halleck wrote a poem entitled \"Marco Bozzaris\", Juste Olivier also wrote an award-winning poem for him, in 1825. The national poet of Greece, Dionysios Solomos, composed a poem titled \"On Markos Botsaris\", in which he likens the mourning over Botsaris' body to the lamentation of Hector, as described in the last book of the Iliad. His memory is still celebrated in popular ballads in Greece.\n\nBotsaris is also widely considered to be the author of a Greek–Albanian lexicon written in Corfu in 1809, at the insistence of François Pouqueville, Napoleon Bonaparte's general consul at the court of Ali Pasha in Ioannina. The dictionary is of importance for the knowledge of the extinct Souliot dialect. However, although the book is known as the Botsaris dictionary, scholar Xhevat Lloshi has argued in several works that Botsaris couldn't have possibly written that dictionary by himself, both because of his young age, and because of a note of Pouqueville that clearly says that the dictionary was drafted under the dictation of Marko's father, uncle, and future father-in-law.\n\nIn Greek music, the Zakynthian composer Pavlos Carrer composed in 1858 the opera “Marco Bozzari” to his honour. In 1858 excerpts from the opera were performed in Athens in the presence of King Otto. Also, there are several folk songs dedicated to Botsaris, like a Tsamiko from Central Greece, named \"Song of Markos Botsaris\" (), and from the Greek minority of southern Albania (Northern Epirus) (\"Καημένε Μάρκο Μπότσαρη\"). Popular dramas and school plays were written soon after his death.\n\nBotsaris was depicted on the reverse of the Greek 50 lepta coin of 1976–2001. He often adorns posters in Greek classrooms, government offices, and military barracks, as a member of the Greek pantheon of national heroes.\n\nThe original manuscript of the dictionary is at the National Library in Paris (Supplément Grec 251). Botsaris titled his dictionary “\"Lexicon of the simple Romaic and Arbanitic language\"” (Λεξικόν της Ρωμαϊκοις και Αρβανητηκής Απλής (\"sic\")). The Greek terms are in columns on the left of the pages, not in alphabetical order, and the Albanian words on the right, written in Greek letters. Apart from single words, the dictionary includes complexes of words or short phrases. The Greek entries are in total 1701 and the Albanian 1494. \nOn the first page there is a hand-written notice by Pouqueville: “\"Ce lexique est écrit de la main de Marc Botzari à Corfou 1809 devant moi\".” This manuscript, which includes also a kind of Greek–Albanian self-teaching method with dialogues written by Ioannes Vilaras and a French-Albanian glossary by Pouqueville, was donated by the latter to the Library in 1819. The dictionary was dictated to the young M. Botsaris by his father Kitsos (1754–1813), his uncle Notis (1759–1841) and his father-in-law Christakis Kalogerou from Preveza. Titos Yochalas, a Greek historian who studied and edited the manuscript, noticing that some Greek words are translated into Albanian in more than one way, believes that M. Botsaris was writing the Greek words and the elders were translating into Albanian. As many of the entries seem unlikely to be useful either for the Suliots or the Albanians of that time and circumstances, Yochalas believes that the dictionary was composed after Pouqueville's initiative, possibly as a source for a future French-Albanian dictionary. He also observes that the Albanian phrases are syntaxed as if were Greek, concluding that either the mother tongue of the authors was the Greek or the Greek language had a very strong influence on the Albanian, if the latter was possibly spoken in Souli (Yochalas, p. 53). The Albanian idiom of the dictionary belongs to the Tosk dialect of south Albanian and retains many archaic elements, found also in the dialect spoken by the Greco-Albanian communities of South Italy and Sicily. In the Albanian entries there are many loans from Greek (approx. 510), as well as from Turkish (approx. 190) and Italian (21).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798652", "title": "PGA Tour (video game series)", "text": "PGA Tour (video game series)\n\nPGA Tour is a series of golf video games developed and published by Electronic Arts and later their EA Sports sub-label since 1990, the series primarily features courses featured on the U.S. PGA Tour, and other notable courses (such as those that have hosted majors).\n\nIn 1998, EA began publishing their golf games with the endorsement of Tiger Woods. Following the \"Tiger Woods 99 PGA Tour Golf\" release, subsequent titles were named \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour\" and released yearly.\n\nAlthough EA Sports developed most games in the series internally, some SKUs have come from outside developers including the first edition, \"Tiger Woods 99 PGA Tour Golf\", which Adrenalin Entertainment developed in conjunction with EA for the PlayStation and \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2001\" for the PlayStation, which was developed by Stormfront Studios. IOMO also produced versions of the game for mobile phones for the 2002, 2004, and 2005 editions.\n\nIn October 2013, EA announced that it would end its relationship with Woods and replace him with another golfer for the next installment. On March 16, 2015, it was announced that Rory McIlroy, then top golfer in the world, would become the new title athlete of the franchise, which will now be known as \"Rory McIlroy PGA Tour\".\n\nThe series was responsible for several innovations in the genre, such as the now standard three-click swing method. In 1995 a critic stated in \"GamePro\" that \"The PGA series flies high above the rest for two reasons: You can completely control a shot, and you play on the best courses around.\" However, unlike other games in the EA Sports label, the series was often shadowed by other competitors such as the \"Jack Nicklaus\" series, \"Links\" series, \"Microsoft Golf\" or \"The Golf Pro\".\n\n\"PGA Tour\" has brought in almost $771 million since it began in 1999.\n\nStarting in 1998, Tiger Woods was the star and face of the series. The deal with Woods was worth $6.2 to 7 million a year at the height of his 15 years at EA Sports.\n\nThat's according to Kotaku sources, Electronic Arts reportedly planned to outsource Tiger Woods PGA Tour 15 and give the in-house team at EA Tiburon two years to make Tiger Woods PGA Tour 16 for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. However, when CEO John Riccitiello resigned March 2013, this plan was dropped to save costs, the sources said.\n\nOn October 2013, EA's partnership with Woods and a licensing agreement with Augusta National Golf Club reached an end. According to EA, the split is a mutual decision.\n\nThe agreement with HB Studios comes after a similar long-term licensing agreement between the PGA Tour and Electronic Arts came to an end. EA had dominated electronic golf games thanks to a partnership with 15-time major tournament winner Tiger Woods. From 1999-2013 \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour\" was the top video golf game on the market. After EA and Woods ended their agreement in 2013, EA developed a similar game in 2015 in a partnership with Rory McIlroy. \"Rory McIlroy PGA Tour\" did not fare nearly as well as the previous EA versions featuring Woods. The game was pulled from all digital storefronts in May 2018.\n\nEA has relinquished its deal with the PGA Tour in what appears to be a move away from golf games. \"PGA Tour\" licensing director Matt Iofredo said the new partnership with HB Studios is part of the sport's on-going efforts to introduce golf to a wider audience.\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The year in the title of the game, not the year of release.\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nDeveloped by Headgate Studios for the Microsoft Windows, EA Redwood Studios for the PlayStation 2 version and Rebellion Developments for the Game Boy Advance version and published by EA Sports for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 2 and Game Boy Advance in 2002.\n\nThe PC and PlayStation 2 versions received \"favorable\" reviews, while the Game Boy Advance version received \"mixed\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nInformation needed\n\nDeveloped and published by Electronic Arts for the Amiga, Sega Genesis, and Amiga CD32 in 1994, for the Game Boy in 1995, and for the SNES in 1996. The SNES version supports the TeeV Golf club peripheral.\n\"GamePro\" gave the Game Boy version a rave review, saying that it \"delivers almost everything that made its 16-bit relative the best.\" They applauded the selection of courses, effective controls, strong realism, and the graphics, going so far as to state that when played on the Super Game Boy the game looks \"almost as good as the Genesis version.\"\n\nDeveloped by EA Sports and published by Electronic Arts for Windows PC in 1997.\nThe game received a score of 5.8 (\"mediocre\") from GameSpot.\n\nDeveloped by Exient Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts under the EA Sports branding on April 23, 2009 for iOS. The game features commentary by Sam Torrance and Kelly Tilghman. The game offers five golfers: Tiger Woods, Vijay Singh, Retief Goosen, Annika Sörenstam, and Natalie Gulbis. For courses, it has Pebble Beach Golf Links, Old Course at St Andrews, TPC Sawgrass, The K Club, Doral Golf Resort & Spa, Fancourt Links, and TPC Boston.\n\n\"Tiger Woods PGA Tour Online\" was an online streaming version of the Tiger Woods franchise.\n\nPlayers took part in single player modes or in tournaments. Tournaments were split into weekly and daily competitions, sometimes based on events then happening in the PGA Tour. For example, during the US Open, the courses that have had the US Open had a discount on points.\n\nPlayers chose between monthly and yearly subscriptions with unlimited access, or chose to pay for individual rounds through microtransactions. Players who didn't subscribe were still allowed to compete, although they were usually allowed to play only one or two rounds each day.\n\nOn September 6, 2011, it became integrated with the \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12\" PC version. EA Sports retired \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour Online\" on July 6, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798656", "title": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2000", "text": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2000\n\nTiger Woods PGA Tour 2000 is a sports video game developed by EA Redwood Shores for the PlayStation version, Xantera for the Game Boy Color version and Rainbow Studios for the Microsoft Windows version and published by EA Sports for PlayStation in 1999 and Game Boy Color and Microsoft Windows in 2000.\n\nThe game received \"mixed or average\" reviews on all platforms according to video game review aggregator GameRankings.\n\n\"PGA Tour 2000\"s computer version received a \"Silver\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 100,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798657", "title": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2001", "text": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2001\n\nTiger Woods PGA Tour 2001 is a sports video game developed by Headgate Studios for the Microsoft Windows version, Stormfront Studios for the PlayStation version and EA Redwood Shores for the PlayStation 2 version and published by EA Sports for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation in 2000 and PlayStation 2 in 2001.\n\nIn the United States, the computer version of \"PGA Tour 2001\" sold 230,000 copies and earned $5.5 million by August 2006, after its release in November 2000. It was the country's 92nd best-selling computer game during this period. The game received \"mixed or average\" reviews on all platforms according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "1798658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798658", "title": "Walter Folger Brown", "text": "Walter Folger Brown\n\nWalter Folger Brown (May 31, 1869January 26, 1961) was Postmaster General of the United States from March 5, 1929 to March 4, 1933 under Herbert Hoover's administration.\n\nBrown was born in Massillon, Ohio, to Lavinia (née Folger) and James Marshal Brown. He was best known from his involvement in the Air Mail scandal. He married Katherin Hafer on September 10, 1903. Brown had no children.\n\nBrown served as President Hoover's Postmaster General from 1929 until 1933. He was also a delegate to the Republican National Convention in Ohio in 1940 and 1944, and served as the president of the Toledo, Ohio Humane Society from 1911 until 1961.\n\nBrown died at age 91 in Toledo, Ohio on January 26, 1961. He was buried next to his wife Katherin Hafer in Woodlawn Cemetery in Toledo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798661", "title": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003", "text": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003\n\nTiger Woods PGA Tour 2003 is a sports video game developed by EA Redwood Shores for the Xbox, PlayStation 2 and GameCube versions and Headgate Studios for the Microsoft Windows and Mac OS versions and published by EA Sports for Xbox, PlayStation 2, GameCube, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS.\n\nAmong the features in the game is the Tiger Challenge, in which the player is matched against real or fantasy golfers one at a time. There is also a scenario mode with 50 scenarios, challenging the players' skills in a variety of realistic settings. The game also includes a tournament mode that simulates a season on the PGA Tour.\n\n\"Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003\" received \"critical acclaim\", according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n\"PGA Tour 2003\" was nominated for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 2002 \"Sports Game of the Year\" award, which ultimately went to \"Madden NFL 2003\". The editors of \"Computer Games Magazine\" named \"PGA Tour 2003\" the seventh-best computer game of 2002, and wrote, \"Featuring the best swing interface ever created and the most successful career mode yet implemented, it's the biggest step forward in the genre since \"Links 386\".\"\n"}
{"id": "1798662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798662", "title": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004", "text": "Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004\n\nTiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 is a sports video game developed by EA Redwood Shores for the GameCube, PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions, Headgate Studios for the Microsoft Windows version and Backbone Emeryville for the Game Boy Advance and N-Gage versions and published by EA Sports for GameCube, Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Game Boy Advance and N-Gage.\n\nIt was the first to feature the Game Face feature, in which the player can create his or her own player.\n\n\"Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004\" received \"generally positive\" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n\"Edge\" gave the GameCube, PS2, Xbox and PC versions a score of eight out of ten and stated: \"This relaxed, arcade-like approach makes for something that's not so much about simulation, but more emulation; letting you thwack the ball with all the verve of an expert, without the worry of any homework. Fun, then, and lots of it.\"\n\nThe game's PlayStation 2 version received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 300,000 copies in the United Kingdom. By July 2006, the PlayStation 2 version had sold 1 million copies and earned $43 million in the United States alone. \"Next Generation\" ranked it as the 51st highest-selling game launched for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in that country. Combined sales of \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour\" games released in the 2000s reached 5 million units in the United States by July 2006.\n"}
{"id": "1798663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798663", "title": "Grant Tambling", "text": "Grant Tambling\n\nGrant Ernest John Tambling, AM (born 20 June 1943) is an Australian politician. He was a member of the House of Representatives from 1980 to 1983 and then a Senator for the Northern Territory from 1987 to 2001, representing the Country Liberal Party. He later served as Administrator of Norfolk Island from 2003 to 2007.\n\nTambling was born and raised in Darwin in the Northern Territory. He attended Darwin High School and Adelaide Boys' High School, returning to Darwin before moving to Sydney for work.\n\nAfter a stint in local government on the Darwin City Council, Tambling was elected to the first Northern Territory Legislative Assembly as the Country Liberal Party member for Fannie Bay. Tambling served as Executive Member for Community Development in this first parliament. Executive members were the equivalent of ministers in later years, though that title was not used until self-government was granted in 1978.\n\nIn 1975 he became deputy leader of the CLP and hence Deputy Majority Leader (deputy premier) under Majority Leader Goff Letts. Despite this, Tambling was defeated at the 1977 election by Labor Party candidate Pam O'Neil, and began a career in business. He served as the member for the Northern Territory electorate in the House of Representatives from 1980 to 1983, but was again defeated by an ALP rival, John Reeves.\n\nAfter four years out of parliament, Tambling was once again elected—this time to the Senate—at the 1987 federal election. He replaced Bernie Kilgariff whom he had earlier replaced as Deputy Majority leader. He is the only Territorian to have served in both houses of federal parliament. He spent fourteen years as a Senator, six of them as a parliamentary secretary, before being disendorsed by the CLP at the 2001 election for voting in favour of anti-Internet gaming legislation. Tambling subsequently retired from politics and worked for two years in private consultancy.\n\nTambling was appointed as the Administrator of Norfolk Island from 1 November 2003 to September 2007.\n\nHe is married with two children.\n"}
{"id": "1798674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798674", "title": "Pilgrim Jäger", "text": "Pilgrim Jäger\n\n\"Pilgrim Jäger\" is a historical fiction that takes place in Europe in the year 1521, at the time of the Protestant Reformation. The story follows two women, Adele the acrobat and Karin the fortuneteller. Afraid of being accused of witchcraft, they disguise their special powers, working as common performers (\"professionisti\") to earn enough money to buy indulgences from the Catholic Church that will hopefully free them from their sins. However, their powers soon get them involved in a great religious battle involving the Medici family, the Este family, Girolamo Savonarola's \"prophecies,\" and many others.\n\nSavonarola's prophecies or the Friar's Predictions are the main basis for the series. These prophecies made many predictions about the Catholic Church; even the demise of Rome. Before all these predictions, a battle was to take place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798680", "title": "Marion B. Folsom", "text": "Marion B. Folsom\n\nMarion Bayard Folsom (November 23, 1893 – September 27, 1976) was an American government official and businessman. He served as the U.S. Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare from 1955 to 1958 under President Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nFolsom was born in McRae, Georgia. He was the son of William Bryant Folsom and Margaret Jane (\"née\" McRae). Folsom graduated from the University of Georgia, and he received a master's degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.\n\nIn 1914, Folsom joined the Eastman Kodak Company. After serving with the Army in World War I, he returned to Kodak where he developed one of the nation's first private industry social security plans. Folsom married Mary Davenport, on November 16, 1918, with whom had three children, Jane McRae, Marion Bayard, Jr. and Frances Folsom.\n\nHe served as a captain in the U.S. Army during World War I and was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1934, Folsom was appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt as a member of an Advisory Council on Economic Security, which laid the foundation for the present Social Security program. He served from 1935 to 1953 as a Treasurer of the Eastman Kodak Company.\n\nAfter resigning from Eastman Kodak, he became the Under Secretary of the Treasury from 1953 to 1955. He served as the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare with President Dwight D. Eisenhower from August 1, 1955, following the resignation of Oveta Culp Hobby, until July 31, 1958. Folsom commuted between his job as the treasurer for Eastman Kodak in Rochester, New York, and various Washington posts.\n\nHe died in Rochester, New York, on September 27, 1976. Folsom was buried in Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "1798688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798688", "title": "South Cushitic languages", "text": "South Cushitic languages\n\nThe South Cushitic or Rift languages of Tanzania belong to the Afro-Asiatic family. The most numerous is Iraqw, with half a million speakers. These languages are believed to have been originally spoken by Southern Cushitic agro-pastoralists from Ethiopia, who in the third millennium BC began migrating southward into the Great Rift Valley.\n\nThe Rift languages are named after the Great Rift Valley of Tanzania, where they are found.\n\nHetzron (1980:70ff) suggested that the Rift languages (South Cushitic) are a part of Lowland East Cushitic. Kießling & Mous (2003) have proposed more specifically that they be linked to a Southern Lowland branch, together with Oromo, Somali, and Yaaku–Dullay. It is possible that the great lexical divergence of Rift from East Cushitic is due to Rift being partially relexified through contact with Khoisan languages, as perhaps evidenced by the unusually high frequency of the ejective affricates and , which outnumber pulmonary consonants like . Kießling & Mous suggest that these ejectives may be remnants of clicks from the source language.\n\nThe terms \"South Cushitic\" and \"Rift\" are not quite synonymous: The Ma'a and Dahalo languages were once included in South Cushitic, but were not considered Rift. Kießling restricts South Cushitic to West Rift as its only indisputable branch. He states that Dahalo has too many East Cushitic features to belong to South Cushitic, as does Ma'a. (The Waata and Degere may once have spoken languages similar to Dahalo.) Kw'adza and Aasax are in turn insufficiently described to classify as even Cushitic with any certainty.\n\nIraqw and Gorowa are close enough for basic mutual intelligibility. Alagwa has become similar to Burunge through intense contact, and so had previously been classified as a Southern West Rift language. Aasax and Kw'adza are poorly attested and, like Dahalo, may be the result of language shift from non-Cushitic languages.\n\nSeveral additional and now extinct South Cushitic languages are deduced from their influence on the Bantu languages that replaced them. A pair of these, Taita Cushitic, appear to have been more divergent than extant Rift languages, co-ordinate with Proto-Rift within a larger group Nurse (1988) calls \"Greater Rift\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798691", "title": "Dahalo language", "text": "Dahalo language\n\nDahalo is an endangered Cushitic language spoken by at most 400 Dahalo people on the coast of Kenya, near the mouth of the Tana River. Dahalo is unusual among the world's languages in using all four airstream mechanisms found in human language.\n\nWhile the language is known primarily as “\"Dahalo\"” to linguists, the term itself is an exonym supposedly used by Aweer-speakers that itself essentially means “\"stupid\"” or “\"worthless\"”. The speakers themselves refer to the language as “\"numma guhooni\"”.\n\nThe Dahalo, former elephant hunters, are dispersed among Swahili and other Bantu peoples, with no villages of their own, and are bilingual in those languages. Children no longer learn the language, which would make it moribund, and it may be extinct.\n\nDahalo has a highly diverse sound system using all four airstream mechanisms found in human language: clicks, ejectives, and implosives, as well as the universal pulmonic sounds.\n\nIn addition, Dahalo makes a number of uncommon distinctions. It contrasts laminal and apical stops, as in languages of Australia and California; epiglottal and glottal stops and fricatives, as in the Mideast, the Caucasus, and the American Pacific Northwest; and is perhaps the only language in the world to contrast alveolar lateral and palatal lateral fricatives and affricates.\n\nIt is suspected that the Dahalo may have once spoken a Sandawe- or Hadza-like language, and that they retained clicks in some words when they shifted to Cushitic, because many of the words with clicks are basic vocabulary. If so, the clicks represent a substratum.\n\nDahalo is also called \"Sanye\", a name shared with neighboring Waata, also spoken by former hunter-gatherers. The Waata may once have spoken a language more like Dahalo before shifting to Oromo. \n\nThe classification of Dahalo is obscure. Traditionally included in South Cushitic, Tosco (1991) argues instead that it is East Cushitic, and Kießling (2001) agrees that it has too many Eastern features to be South Cushitic.\n\nDahalo has, by all accounts, a large consonant inventory. 62 consonants are reported by Maddieson et al. (1993), whereas Tosco (1991) recognizes 50. The inventory according to the former is presented below:\n\nTosco's account differs in not including the labialized clicks, the palatal laterals, and the voiceless prenasalized consonants (on which see below), analyzing as , and adding , and (which Maddieson et al. believe to be an allophone of ).\n\nThis typologically extraordinary inventory appears to result from extended contact influence from substratal and superstratal languages, due to long-running bilinguality. Only 27 consonants (shown in bold) are found in the final position of verbal stems, which Tosco suggests represents the inherited Cushitic component of the consonant inventory.\n\nSeveral phonemes can be shown to be recent intrusions into the language through loanwords:\nAdditionally, several consonants are marginal in their occurrence. Five are only attested in a single root:\nLess than five examples each are known of .\n\nThe prenasalized voiceless stops have been analyzed as syllabic nasals plus stops by some researchers. However, one would expect this additional syllable to give Dahalo words additional tonic possibilities, as Dahalo pitch accent is syllable-dependent (see below), and Maddieson et al. report that this does not seem to be the case. Tosco (1991) analyzes these as consonant clusters, on the grounds that Dahalo allows long vowels in open syllables only, and that while words such as /tʃaːⁿda/ 'finger' can be found, only short vowels occur preceding the alleged voiceless prenasalized consonants. He additionally reports fricative and glottalized clusters: , , and .\n\nThe laminal coronals are denti-alveolar, whereas the apicals are alveolar tending toward post-alveolar.\n\nWhen geminate, the epiglottals are a voiceless stop and fricative. (Thus is not pharyngeal as sometimes reported, since pharyngeal stops are not believed to be possible.) In utterance-initial position they may be a partially voiced (negative voice onset time) stop and fricative. However, as singletons between vowels, is a flap or even an approximant with weak voicing, whereas is a fully voiced approximant. Other obstruents are similarly affected intervocalically, though not to the same degree.\n\nThere is a lot of variability in the voicing of clicks, so this distinction may be being lost. The nasal clicks are nasalized prior to the click release and are voiced throughout; the voiceless clicks usually have about 30ms of voice onset time, but sometimes less. There is no voiceless nasal airflow, but following vowels may have a slightly nasalized onset. Thus these clicks are similar to glottalized nasal clicks in other languages. Voiceless clicks are much more common than voiced clicks.\n\nDahalo has a symmetric 5-vowel system of pairs of short and long vowels, totaling 10 vowels:\n\nDahalo words are commonly 2–4 syllables long. Syllables are exclusively of the CV pattern, except that consonants may be geminate between vowels. As with many other Afroasiatic languages, gemination is grammatically productive. Voiced consonants partially devoice, and prenasalized stops denasalize when geminated as part of a grammatical function. However, lexical prenasalised geminate stops also occur.\n\nThe consonants and are systematically excluded from the word-initial position.\n\nDahalo has pitch accent, normally with zero to one high-pitched syllables (rarely more) per root word. If there is a high pitch, it is most frequently on the first syllable; in the case of disyllabic words, this is the only possibility: e.g. \"head\", \"pierce\".\n\nDahalo is one of very few languages outside southern Africa to have phonemic clicks (the others being Sandawe and Hadza in Tanzania and Damin, a ceremonial register of Lardil formerly spoken on Mornington Island in Australia). The clicks in Dahalo are not Cushitic in origin, and may be a remnant of a shift from a non-Cushitic language. Ten Raa shows some slight evidence that speakers of Dahalo once spoke a language similar to Sandawe, which does have clicks. This might explain why clicks are only present in about 40 lexical items, some of which are basic (e.g. \"breast,\" \"saliva,\" and \"forest\").\n\nEhret reported that different words had either dental and lateral clicks, while Elderkin reported that these were allophones. It's not clear if an old distinction has merged, or if the place of articulation is variable because there's no distinction to maintain.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798692", "title": "Linear grammar", "text": "Linear grammar\n\nIn computer science, a linear grammar is a context-free grammar that has at most one nonterminal in the right hand side of each of its productions.\n\nA linear language is a language generated by some linear grammar.\n\nA simple linear grammar is \"G\" with \"N\" = {S}, Σ = {a, b}, \"P\" with start symbol \"S\" and rules\nIt generates the language formula_1.\n\nTwo special types of linear grammars are the following:\nEach of these can describe exactly the regular languages.\nA regular grammar is a grammar that is left-linear or right-linear.\n\nAnother special type of linear grammar is the following:\n\nBy inserting new nonterminals, every linear grammar can be brought into this form without affecting the language generated.\nFor instance, the rules of \"G\" above can be replaced with\n\nHence, linear grammars of this special form can generate all linear languages.\n\nAll regular languages are linear; conversely, an example of a linear, non-regular language is {ab}, as explained above.\nAll linear languages are context-free; conversely, an example of a context-free, non-linear language is the Dyck language of well-balanced bracket pairs.\nHence, the regular languages are a proper subset of the linear languages, which in turn are a proper subset of the context-free languages.\n\nWhile the linear languages that are regular languages are deterministic, there exist linear languages that are nondeterministic. For example, the language of even-length palindromes on the alphabet of 0 and 1 has the linear grammar S → 0S0 | 1S1 | ε. An arbitrary string of this language cannot be parsed without reading all its letters first which means that a pushdown automaton has to try alternative state transitions to accommodate for the different possible lengths of a semi-parsed string. This language is nondeterministic. Since nondeterministic context-free languages cannot be accepted in linear time, linear languages cannot be accepted in linear time in the general case. Furthermore, it is undecidable whether a given context-free language is a linear context-free language.\n\nIf \"L\" is a linear language and \"M\" is a regular language, then the intersection formula_2 is again a linear language; in other words, the linear languages are closed under intersection with regular sets. Furthermore, the linear languages are closed under homomorphism and inverse homomorphism. These three closure properties show that the linear languages form a full trio. Full trios in general are language families that enjoy a couple of other desirable mathematical properties.\n"}
{"id": "1798694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798694", "title": "Yuri Bashmet", "text": "Yuri Bashmet\n\nYuri Abramovich Bashmet (; born 24 January 1953) is a Russian conductor, violinist, and violist.\n\nYuri Bashmet was born on 24 January 1953 in Rostov-on-Don in the family of Abram Borisovich Bashmet and Maya Zinovyeva Bashmet (née Krichever). His paternal grandmother, Tsilya Efimovna, studied singing at the conservatory for two years in her youth. His maternal grandmother, Darya Axentyevna, interpreted native Hutsul songs.\n\nIn 1971, he graduated from the Lviv secondary special music school. From 1971 till 1976, he studied at the Moscow Conservatory. His first viola teacher was Professor Vadim Borisovsky; after whose death in 1972 was succeeded by Professor Fyodor Druzhinin. Druzhinin was also the tutor of Yuri Bashmet for the probation period and for his postgraduate study at the Moscow Conservatory (1976–78).\n\nIn 1972, Bashmet purchased a 1758 viola made by Milanese luthier Paolo Testore, which he uses for his performances to date. \nIn the late 1970s through to the early 1980s, Bashmet developed his career as a solo performer. He began his active concert activities in 1976, with a tour of Germany with the Moscow Chamber Orchestra founded by R. Barshay. He has performed in leading concert halls the world over: in Europe, USA, Canada, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. He was the first violist to perform a solo recital in such halls as the Amsterdam Concertgebouw, the Barbican in London, the Berlin Philharmonic, La Scala of Milan, the Great Hall of the Moscow Conservatoire, and the Great Hall of the Leningrad Philharmonic.\n\nYuri Bashmet has performed under many noted conductors, including Rafael Kubelík, Mstislav Rostropovich, Seiji Ozawa, Valery Gergiev, Gennady Rozhdestvensky, Colin Davis, John Eliot Gardiner, Yehudi Menuhin, Charles Dutoit, Neville Marriner, Paul Sacher, Michael Tilson Thomas, Kurt Masur, Bernard Haitink, Kent Nagano, Simon Rattle, Yuri Temirkanov, and Nikolaus Harnoncourt.\n\nHe started his conducting activity in 1985, consistent with his reputation as a bold contemporary artist not afraid of taking risks.\n\nIn 1992, Bashmet reconstituted the orchestra featuring some of the most talented young musicians of Russia who are graduates and postgraduate students of the Moscow Conservatory. This orchestra performs in the Great Hall of the Moscow Conservatory and has toured extensively abroad. Its performances have been recorded for broadcast by major radio companies, including the BBC, Bayerischer Rundfunk, Radio France, and Radio Luxembourg.\nThe orchestra has recorded several CDs, among these a recording of the Alfred Schnittke Triple Concerto (EMI Records), soloists: Gidon Kremer, Yuri Bashmet and Mstislav Rostropovich. Another CD, of the Thirteenth String Quartet by Shostakovich and the quintet by Brahms (Sony Classics), was acclaimed \"Best Album of 1998\" by \"The Strad\" magazine, and was nominated for a Grammy Award.\n\nAs a soloist and a conductor, Bashmet has performed with leading symphony orchestras: Berlin Philharmonic, Berlin Symphony, New York Philharmonic, Вауrische Rundfunk, San Francisco Symphony, Chicago Symphony, Boston Symphony, Vienna Philharmonic, French Radio Philharmonic Orchestra, Paris Orchestra, etc. Repertoire with these orchestras has included the symphonic works of Brahms, Haydn, Schubert, Mozart, Tchaikovsky, and Beethoven. A particularly noted concert at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow featured Shostakovich's Symphony No. 13.\n\nBashmet has performed recitals, as well as his joint performances together with noted musicians including Mstislav Rostropovich, Gidon Kremer, Sviatoslav Richter, Isaac Stern, Anne-Sophie Mutter, Martha Argerich, Evgeny Kissin, Mischa Maisky, M. Portal, Shlomo Mintz, Oleg Kagan, Roberto Carnevale, Viktor Tretiakov, and Maria João Pires.\nOf particular note were Bashmet's performances in collaboration with Sviatoslav Richter, two performers of different generations but with common artistic views. They performed together at the \"December Evenings\" festival in the Pushkin museum in Moscow, as well as on world tours. Another of Bashmet's longstanding artistic friendships, personal and in performance, is with Mstislav Rostropovich.\n\nNumerous modern composers have composed works especially for Yuri Bashmet or dedicated to him, including 50 viola concertos and other works: A. Schnittke – \"Concerto\", \"Monologue\"; S. Gubaidullina – \"Concerto\", E. Denisov -\"Concerto\", D. Tavener – \"The Myth Bearer\"; M. Pletnev – \"Concerto\", A. Golovin – \"Sonata-breve\". A. Raskatov – \"Sonata\"; V. Sharafyan - \"Surgite Gloriae\" viola concerto with duduk, descant, baritone and orchestra, G. Kancheli – \"Liturgy \" and \"Styx\"; A. Tchaikovsky – two \"Concertos\"; Barkauskas – \"Concert\", A. Eshpay – \"Concert\"; P. Ruders – \"Concerto\". A. Schnittke – \"Concerto for three\" (dedicated to Mstislav Rostropovich, Yuri Bashmet, Gidon Kremer), and many others. Yuri Bashmet has transcribed the \"String Trio\" by A. Schnittke for string orchestra; this work was issued by \"Sikorsky\" (Vienna) under the name \"Trio – Sonata\".\nParticular works for which Bashmet is known include the Chaconne by J.S. Bach, Arpeggione Sonata by F. Schubert, Sinfonia Concertante for violin and viola by W. A. Mozart, Viola Sonata by D. Shostakovich, and the Concerto for viola and orchestra by A. Schnittke.\n\nYuri Bashmet has participated in many festivals all over the world: Tanglewood (USA), Tours, Bordeaux, Biarritz, Menton (France), Brussels, Kainuu, Mikkeli (Finland), Kroyt (Germany), Siena, Sorrento, Camerino, Streza (Italy), and \"March Music Lias\" (Ruse, Bulgaria). He is an artistic director and one of the organizers of the festivals in Rolandseck (Germany), and Elba Island (Italy). He is a regular participant of the Promenade Concerts in Royal Albert Hall (London, UK). The highest appraisal of Bashmet's talent was his appointment to the position of the art director of the \"December evenings\" music festival in Moscow, a position held for 17 years by Sviatoslav Richter .\n\nSince 2006 Yuri Bashmet together with famous Belarusian pianist Rostislav Krimer has held the annual Yuri Bashmet International Music Festival in Minsk (Belarus), which has become one of the most prominent events in the Commonwealth of Independent States.\n\nYuri Bashmet is a founder and a Jury Chairman of the International Contest of Violists in Moscow, the only event of its kind in Russia. He is the President of the Lionel Tertis International Viola Competition in Great Britain, the member of Jury for the violists' contests in Munich and \"Maurice Vie\" in Paris.\n\nCinema and TV broadcasting companies of different countries (Great Britain, France, Russia) have filmed several movies about his art. Several times his CDs won prestigious European awards, including the \"Diapason d'Or\" and \"Choc\".\n\nYuri Bashmet has participated in many large-scale charity actions of the international importance, in Carnegie Hall (with Elton John and Stevie Wonder), in London (in the memory of Princess Diana); in the concerts, whose proceeds were transferred to the funds aimed to help the victims of the natural disasters in Armenia, Japan, and to the funds helping handicapped children.\n\nThe International Charity Fund, established by Yuri Bashmet, has established the Dimitri Shostakovich International Award for outstanding achievements in the field of the international art. This award was granted to Gidon Kremer, Thomas Quasthoff, Victor Tretiakov, Valery Gergiev, Anne-Sophie Mutter, Olga Borodina, Irina Antonova, Natalia Gutman, and Evgeny Kissin.\n\nIn March 2014 he signed a letter in support of the position of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin on Russia's military intervention in Ukraine.\n\nAccording to a statement from the Lviv National Music Academy (LNMA) on 12 March 2014, Yuri Bashmet has been stripped of his title as honorary professor at the LNMA in response to his signing of an open letter in support of Russia's military intervention in Crimea, Ukraine, the country where he grew up.\n\nSince 1978, Yuri Bashmet has taught students of the Moscow Conservatoire. In 1988 he attained the position of docent, and in 1996 he was made a professor.\nSince 1980, Bashmet has conducted master classes in Japan, Europe, USA, and Hong Kong. He teaches summer courses at the Accademia Chigiana (Siena, Italy) and at the academy of Tours (France). His students have won many of the international contests and now are performing in orchestras worldwide.\nIn 1996, he created and headed the \"Experimental Chair of Viola\", where in addition to the works of solo viola repertoire, the curriculum includes extended studies of the viola parts in the chamber, operatic and symphonic music, as well as advanced study of the performance styles of the past and the present.\nYuri Bashmet leads national education projects, as a presenter and art director of the TV programs \"The Station of Dream\" and \"Music in the Museums of the World\".\n\nIn 1986, Yuri Bashmet founded the Moscow Soloists chamber orchestra. In 1991, when the orchestra was on tour in France, Bashmet, as Art Director, signed a temporary contract with the administration of the city of Montpellier. Afterwards the musicians of the orchestra decided to stay in France, a decision untenable for Bashmet himself, who was committed contractually to return to Russia. He consequently resigned his position with the orchestra, while inviting the musicians to return to Russia with him. Soon after that the orchestra disbanded, and its members have joined other ensembles abroad.\n\nBashmet re-established the Moscow Soloists, after returning to Moscow, with new musicians.\n\nWhen he was a student, Bashmet was granted the Second Award at the International Contest of Violists in Budapest (1975) and Grand Prix at the ARD International Music Competition in Munich (1976), attaining worldwide recognition.\n\nHis artistry has won recognition in various awards and regalia in Russia and abroad. He has been granted the high titles of the Honorary Artist of RSFSR (1983), Honorary Artist of the USSR (1991), State Award of the USSR (1986), State Awards of the Russian Federation (1994 and 1996), Аward-1993 \"Best Musical Instrument Performer of the Year\" (a title comparable to the \"Oscar\" in cinema). Yuri Bashmet is an Honorary Academician of the London Academy of Arts.\n\nIn 1995, he was awarded one of the most prestigious awards in the world, of the \"Sonnings Musikfond\" in Copenhagen. Previous recipients include Igor Stravinsky, Leonard Bernstein, Benjamin Britten, Yehudi Menuhin, Isaac Stern, Arthur Rubinstein, Dmitri Shostakovich, Mstislav Rostropovich, Sviatoslav Richter, and Gidon Kremer.\n\nIn 1999, by the Act of the Minister of Culture of the Republic of France, Yuri Bashmet was granted the rank of the Officer of Arts and Literature. In the same time the Prime Minister of Lithuania marked his invaluable impact to the Art by granting Bashmet the highest honor of the Republic of Lithuania. In 2000 the President of Italy granted him an honor \"For Contribution to Motherland\", and in 2002, the president of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin presented him the honor \"For Contribution to Motherland\", 3rd grade. In 2003, Yuri Bashmet was granted the rank of Commander of the French Légion d'honneur.\n\nIn 2000, the Russian Biographic Society granted Yuri Bashmet the honorary title \"The Man of the Year\", in 2001 – \"Zealot of the Enlightenment\". In 2003, Bashmet became the laureate of the \"Olympus\" National Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798695", "title": "Johann Wilhelm Meigen", "text": "Johann Wilhelm Meigen\n\nJohann Wilhelm Meigen (3 May 1764 – 11 July 1845) was a German entomologist famous for his pioneering work on Diptera.\n\nMeigen was born in Solingen, the fifth of eight children of Johann Clemens Meigen and Sibylla Margaretha Bick. His parents, though not poor, were not wealthy either. They ran a small shop in Solingen. His paternal grandparents, however, owned an estate and hamlet with twenty houses. Adding to the rental income, Meigen's grandfather was a farmer and a guild mastercutler in Solingen.\n\nTwo years after Meigen was born, his grandparents died and his parents moved to the family estate. This was already heavily indebted by the Seven Years' War, then bad crops and rash speculations forced the sale of the farm and the family moved back to Solingen.\n\nMeigen attended the town school but only for a short time. He had learned to read and write on his grandfather's estate and he read widely at home as well as taking an interest in natural history. A lodger in the household, a state surveyor named Stamm gave Meigen instruction in mathematics. Another family friend a Reformed Church organist and teacher called Berger, gave him lessons from his 10th year on in piano, orthography, and calligraphy. Later on, in 1776, he also taught him French.\n\nMeigen became Berger's assistant, going to Mülheim with him. There he saw for the first time a systematic collection of butterflies, and here he also learned how to collect and prepare insects.\n\nIn the Autumn of 1779 he returned to Solingen to help his parents, at first by giving private lessons in French, but in the following year he started a French school that lasted until early in 1784. During his few free hours in this period he studied history from Charles Rollin's 15 volume \"Roman History\" and that author's 4 volume \"Ancient History\" (both in French). The\nonly entomological work in his possession at this time was Moder's (or Kleemann's) \"Caterpillar Calendar\".\n\nLater in 1784 he was recommended to Pelzer, a tradesman in Aachen, for the position of resident tutor. On taking up the post, he was treated as a family member. Pelzer had a cousin in Aachen by the name of Mathias Baumhauer (1759–1818), a wool merchant's son, who was a very able entomologist. Baumhauer had a butterfly collection including about 1200 species as well as numbers of insects of all other orders.\n\nMeigen's first attempts to identify his collection which was mainly of Diptera were made with a two-volume work by Philipp Ludwig Statius Muller a German translation of Linnaeus's \"Natursystem\" published in the Netherlands by Houttyn. He soon made his first discovery. The Linnean genera were too inclusive and a better classification could be arrived at using wing venation. This conclusion had already occurred to both Moses Harris in England and Louis Jurine in Geneva but at the time Meigen was unaware of this. Sensing an important step forward he secured the works of Fabricius and from that time concentrated on Diptera.\n\nHe soon found that wing venation alone was not enough to classify the Dipera correctly and he began to make drawings of the antennae viewed under a 20-power wooden-framed microscope purchased at the fair in Aachen, This, a lens of about 6-power, and his own very sharp eyesight and visual memory led him to the next important conclusion, that the Diptera could only be classified using character combinations; what is now known as an eclectic system.\n\nIn 1786 the Solingen organist, a younger brother of his former teacher Berger died in Solingen. That position, with a French school connected with it, was offered to Meigen and he went back to Solingen.\n\nThere he became closely acquainted with a man called Weniger, who shared his interests in botany and entomology. His enthusiasm for entomology and botany became broader and he decided to extend his studies to world species. Weniger felt likewise and they contacted the banker and collector Johann Christian Gerning in Frankfurt. Gerning wrote to his son in the Netherlands, who bought insect specimens for him. A Swiss, Count von Meuron, who was in the Dutch service and whose brother was governor of Trincomalee on Ceylon heard of their wishes and obtained for them the offer of positions as surgeons on an East Indiaman, with an additional stipend. This plan was given up when Meigen's mother opposed it.\n\nIn 1792 Meigen took instruction in drawing. Then he was offered a teaching position in Burtscheid near Aachen. However, he could not leave Solingen because it was occupied by the French army during the Battle of Jemappes. Only when the French withdrew after the Battle of Neerwinden was he able to leave for Burtscheid and Aachen, where he then taught as well as collecting assiduously.\n\nIn 1796, Meigen took a job teaching French in Stolberg, 2 hours from Aachen. Here he remained without further change of residence until his death. In Stolberg outside of school hours he taught drawing, geography, history and piano. He also met a brass-worker named J. A. Peltzer, who was a mathematician and owned a 60-power Tiedemann achromatic telescope. Soon Meigen was teaching astronomy as well.\n\nIn 1801 Meigen met the French naturalist Count Lacépède who had come to Stolberg to visit the brass works. They talked about natural history and Meigen showed Count Lacépède his drawings of Diptera. The following day Meigen was asked to visit Count Lacépède who asked him to join Capt. Baudin's voyage around the world as a botanist. Meigen declined.\n\nIn 1802 Johann Karl Wilhelm Illiger who must have heard of Meigen from Count Lacépède and was at the baths in Aachen with Johann Centurius Hoffmannsegg invited him to join them. Meigen took his drawings along, and made arrangements with Illiger and Hoffmannsegg for future work. Illiger had captured a new and unknown Dipteron and showed a pen drawing of it to Meigen, asking him how it should be classified. Meigen described it as \"Loxocera Hoffmannseggi\". Illiger also agreed to proofread Meigen's first work on Diptera which was then published in 1804 by Reichard in Braunschweig.\n\nIn 1804 the only classification of Diptera was that of Fabricius. Despite Meigen's more advanced, and more natural classification, Meigen's \"Die Fliegen\" found little favor with most entomologists, who were adherents of Fabricius, but that did not deflect Meigen.\n\nIn the same year Fabricius visited Paris and saw Meigen's work. On returning home, he wrote Meigen and arranged to meet him in Aachen. A few days later Fabricius came to Stolberg. Here he was shown all of Meigen's new genera in order that he might use them in the projected new edition of \"Systema Antliatorum\". Fabricius criticized Meigen for his eclectic method, asserting that a classification should be based upon one part of the body, (mainly mouthparts) not on several different parts. Meigen pointed out that Fabricius himself did not consistently follow his own precepts but even so Fabricius refused to use the eclectic method.\n\nIn 1801 Meigen married Anna, the sister of the Reverend Mänsse, a preacher at Hückelhoven near Linnich. Anna was clearly devoted to Meigen which was as well since hard times were ahead. Until 1808 the number of students of French steadily declined, resulting of course in a considerable reduction in Meigen's income. In this crisis, a merchant in Stolberg, one Adolf Pelzer, obtained for him the secretaryship for the Stolberg commercial committee, including keeping minutes of meetings and carrying on correspondence in both German and French. Then, in another reversal, he was replaced by a voluntary secretariat.\n\nIn 1812 the French government provided Meigen with the job of finishing drawings of coal fossils. At this time his work day began usually at about 4 in the morning and lasted until late in the evening for 314 days of each year. All free time was spent with the study of entomology mostly Diptera, but also other orders. He also studied history and mathematics. At this time Meigen drew and colored many more species for \"Die Fliegen\".\n\nFrom 1812 to 1814 Meigen drew some maps for the municipality of Stolberg. He also corresponded again with Count von Hoffmannsegg, until the latter sold his collection to the Natural History Museum of Berlin.\n\nIn 1815, Meigen received a letter from State Attorney (Justizrat) Christian Rudolph Wilhelm Wiedemann asking if there was any prospect that his work begun in 1804 could be continued. He offered access to the Fabricius collection in the University of Kiel. Then in the summer of 1816 Wiedemann came to Stolberg and stayed 8 days to outline an ambitious project. He had material sent to Meigen from the Vienna Museum, from the Hoffmannsegg collection in Berlin, and from the Peter Simon Pallas collection. Meigen worked constantly and in 1818 the first volume of the new and enlarged edition of \"Die Fliegen\" came out, followed by the others until the 7th volume appeared in 1838. For this last volume Meigen had to make the lithographic plates himself to cut expenses. He also prepared 19 lithographic plates for Wiedemann's \"Aussereuropaische Zweiflugler\". The first volumes of \"Die Fliegen\" were published by Meigen himself, but the costs were high, in spite of a considerable list of subscriptions. The Schulz bookdealers in Hamm took over the job with a sizeable honorarium.\n\nIn 1818, Meigen's longtime friend, the tireless collector, Baumhauer died in Paris. His widow brought his collection to Aachen and got Meigen to determine it. He took on the determination of at least 50,000 specimens from Germany, France, the Pyrenees, the Alps and northern Italy and worked on it for a year and a half. The collection was then sold for 1100 Dutch guilders, part of it going to Leiden and part to Luttich.\n\nThese years were very certainly hard. Because of poor harvests in 1816 and 1817, food prices rose enormously. There were 7 children in his family at this time and his income was extremely low, there being now no demand for a French teacher, the French Empire having collapsed. Eventually, through the intervention of the inspector of water supply, he got a well paid contract for some map-drawing lasting a couple of years. Astronomy also brought him some map-work.\n\nHe was able, however to make a trip to the Siebengebirge chiefly for botany and Meigen made some drawings of plants for Prof. Johann Georg Christian Lehmann a Hamburg botanist.\n\nIn 1821, Meigen made the acquaintance of Professor Heinrich Moritz Gaede of Luttich, whose name he gave to \"Trypeta gaedii\" and the tachinid genus \"Gaedia\".\n\nIn 1822, Wiedemann made a second visit to Meigen, proposing that Meigen come to Kiel and revise the Fabrician collection,\nand offering to defray expenses. Meigen accepted, leaving for Hamburg on 23 June 1823. He was met in Hamburg\nby the entomologist Wilhelm Von Winthem, who invited him to stay at his home. Meigen, found himself in the house in which the great poet and dramatist Klopstock spent the last 30 years of his life and which Von Winthem's sister, Johanna Elisabeth von Winthem, Klopstock's widow, then owned. Here he studied the Winthem collection which contained so much that Meigen had to leave a more careful review of it for his return trip. He went on to Kiel to meet Wiedemann, He also met Heinrich Boie in Kiel. Next Meigen and Wiedemann went to Copenhagen to visit Westermann and work on the Museum collection, postponing the main job on the Fabrician collection. Meigen was permitted to take all of the material away for examination. On 19 July, the two of them went to Lund, where both Prof. Carl Fredrik Fallén and Johan Wilhelm Zetterstedt met them. Meigen examined Fallén's and Zetterstedt's collections at length.\n\nOn 23 July, Wiedemann and Meigen returned to Copenhagen, where Meigen stayed. On 30 July they were back in Kiel, where everything in the collections of Fabricius and Westermann was carefully examined and compared and the unknown species drawn and described. After completing the research in Kiel, both left for Hamburg. There Meigen examined the Winthem collection, but there were so many new species in it that Winthem decided to send it all to Stolberg, where it could be worked on more conveniently. Also in Hamburg, Meigen met the entomologist Sommer from Altona and the botanist Johann Georg Christian Lehmann.\n\nThe trip to Denmark and Sweden lasted altogether 12 weeks, the result of which was a series of colored drawings of more than 400 species of insects, together with their descriptions and a large number of notes and corrections. Studies of his collection of the Diptera in Fabricius' collection led to a very substantial revision.\n\nSoon after 1822, the French school closed down completely and Meigen took the unpaid position of organist for his parish but he wrote a choral book, for which the church board paid him well. Meigen continued in this capacity until 1831.\n\nIn 1825, Meigen made a translation of François Fénelon ‘s \"Telemachus\", and in the same year he was enabled to attend a meeting of naturalists in Berlin. Meigen's expenses were organised by Nees von Esenbeck, and many to whom he was known through his works on Diptera. He also saw there again Wiedemann. He took advantage of this occasion to examine the collection of the Natural History Museum of Berlin and those of Ruthé and Bouché.\n\nVon Winthem visited Meigen in 1826. Meigen also made a trip in that year to Crefeld and Düsseldorf. The following year, 1827, a \"Handbuch für Schmetterlingsliebhaber\" (Handbook for Butterfly Collectors) appeared under his name, and he also started a much larger work on Lepidoptera. This latter appeared in fascicles, each of 10 quarto plates lithographed by Meigen himself. It went as far as\nthe \"Euphalaenae\", where lack of funds brought it to a close. He colored the plates in a few copies. The figures, except a very few borrowed from other works, were drawn by Meigen from specimens, many from the collection of an old friend Seeger.\n\nAfter discontinuance of the work on Lepidoptera and the completion of that on Diptera with its 6th volume, Meigen had Diptera sent to him for identification from many sources. Outstanding among them were contributions from Joseph Waltl and Heinrich Georg Bronn. These induced him to work up a supplementary volume, which was notable for the division of the genera \"Tachina\", \"Musca\" and \"Anthomyia\" into a number of genera based upon more critical characters than those used by previous French and English workers.\n\nAt the same time Meigen worked industriously, on a \"Flora of Germany\", which was not completed until a few years before his death. The last volume of this work, also containing numerous drawings made largely from nature by Meigen himself,\nappeared in 1842. It was his last work.\n\nWhen the French dipterologist Jean Macquart visited him in 1839 to see his collection, Meigen also showed him two thick quarto volumes of drawings containing 300 plates of colored and mostly enlarged drawings of all the species that he had described. Macquart told Meigen that he would like to buy them, quoting a price of 1800 francs on behalf of the Jardin des Plantes in Paris. He paid an additional 1200 francs for Meigen's collection of Diptera, which also went to Paris.\n\nMeigen then disposed of his library and the remainder of his collections. His books and fruit and plant collections were bought by the \"Verein für natürliche Wissenschaften und Gewerbe\" (Society for natural sciences and industry) in Aachen. All of his insects other than Diptera were bought by Arnold Foerster, along with a few manuscripts including colored drawings of Hymenoptera.\n\nIn 1839, the Crown-Prince of Prussia awarded Meigen a pension of 200 thalers a year.\n\nOn 3 May 1845 Meigen was presented with a doctor's diploma from the University of Bonn.\n\nMeigen died in Stolberg near Aachen (=Aix-la-Chapelle), on 11 July 1845 at the age of 81.\n\nMeigen is universally recognized as the \"father\" of Dipterology. Aside from his beautifully executed drawings Meigen's great achievement was to employ combinations of morphological characters to work out his scientific classification. This was in contrast to his Swedish contemporary Carl Frederick Fallén who had used mouthpart characters alone. Thus he had come to the same conclusion as Pierre André Latreille, Moses Harris and Louis Jurine though independently and an eclectic methodology was firmly established.\n\nMeigen described a vast number of European Diptera (mostly valid) and his work laid the foundations of all later work on this important insect group.\n\nMeigen described over 3,000 taxa. Here is a list of a few well-known ones.\n\nDiptera\nThe two major works are:\n\nThese masterworks were preceded by \nNouvelle Classification is an octavo pamphlet of forty pages print dated both according to the French Revolutionary Calendar and according to the Christian Year as AN VIII (Year 8). Meigen's \"Avant-Propos\" (preface) is dated \"le premier Germinal an 7\" (21 March 1799) and Baumhauer's \"Introduction\" is dated \"le 10 Messidor an 7\" and so the work dates from early 1800. Nouvelle Classification is a \"prodrome\" (A prodromus is a preliminary publication intended as a basis for future work) to a planned larger work, following discussion. The Diptera are divided into 88 genera, each with a short diagnosis in French and the number of European species which Meigen recognised as belonging to each genus. No nominal species are cited. Of the 88 nominal genera, 25 had already been named by previous authors and 63 were new.\n\n\nIn 1908 Hendel reintroduced Meigen's 1800 names and republished \"Nouvelle Classification des Mouches A Deux Ailes\" which had priority. This was controversial and in 1963 the 1800 names (and the publication) were suppressed by the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.\n\n\nLepidoptera\n\nMost of the Meigen collection is in the Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. There are other specimens, including types in the Natural History Museum of Vienna. Because Meigen exchanged specimens, including types with other entomologists the collection in MNHN contains not only Meigen type material, but types of other authors as well (such\nas Carl Fredrik Fallén, Johan Christian Fabricius, Christian Rudolph Wilhelm Wiedemann, and Pietro Rossi) and Meigen types are found in the collections of these authors of species names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798698", "title": "Chilango", "text": "Chilango\n\nChilango is a Mexican slang demonym for residents of Mexico City. The Royal Spanish Academy and the Mexican Academy of Language give the definition of the word as referring to something \"belonging to Mexico City\", in particular referring to people native to the capital.\n\nThe term Chilango is widely used and refers to a variety of people, ranging from those who speak with a Chilango accent, to those who live, work or study in Mexico City. \n\nTwo other terms used for a resident of Mexico City are \"Defeño\" (derived from D.F., \"Distrito Federal\" and not an official Spanish word) and \"Capitalino\", which are also sometimes used both in a positive or a derogatory sense, although the latter is generally accepted as a neutral demonym. The terminology can also be used for a person born in the suburbs or surrounding areas of Mexico City who has moved to Mexico City. It has a negative connotation when used principally by someone in one of the States of Mexico. \n\n\"Chilango pride\" has also led to the term \"Chilangolandia\" in reference to Mexico City. The embracing of this term also led to the start of the publication of \"Chilango\" in November 2003. It is a monthly humorous magazine parodying elements of Mexico City and outsiders' perspectives of it while also including articles about actual events. It included within its pages the Time Out city guide, but this was retired in early 2007. \"Chilango\" was described in the December 2004 version as:\n\nThere are many theories on the origin of the word \"chilango\". One of them is that it derives from the Nahuatl word Ixachitlān, that actually refers to the whole of the American continent. The word \"shilango\" has also been documented to have been used in the Veracruz area to mean people from central Mexico, and coming from the Maya \"xilaan\" meaning curly or frizzy haired. Yet another theory is that it comes from the Nahuatl \"chilan-co\", meaning where the red ones are, and referring to the skin, reddened by the cold, and used to refer to Aztecs by the Nahua people in the Gulf of Mexico\nThere is a popular phrase used by people outside Mexico City that says: \"Haz patria, mata a un chilango\" that means \"Be patriotic, kill a chilango\". It's not intended to be used literally but with a mocking tone instead. The phrase, coined in the state of Sinaloa, reflects an attitude common in the northern states of disdain and rivalry against residents of Mexico City, that peaked in the 1980s. Then, as a response to this used phrase, Chilangos themselves began to add \"Haz patria, educa a un provinciano\", which means, \"Be patriotic, educate a rural person.\" People in Mexico City refer to people from outside the city as \"\"provinciano(a)\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1798700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798700", "title": "Edmé Bouchardon", "text": "Edmé Bouchardon\n\nEdmé Bouchardon (; 29 May 169827 July 1762) was a French sculptor best known for his neoclassical statues in the gardens of the Palace of Versailles, his medals, his equestrian statue of Louis XV of France for the Place de la Concorde (destroyed during the French Revolution; and for the Fountain of Four Seasons in Paris. He was also a draftsman and painter, and made celebrated series of engravings of working-class Parisians.\n\nBouchardon was born in Chaumont-en-Bassigny, the son of a sculptor and architect, Jean-Baptiste Bouchardon. He learned sculpture first in the studio of his father, and then with Guillaume Coustou. He won the Prix de Rome of the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture in 1722, and as a consequence lived and worked in Rome from 1722 to 1732. He resisted the more ornate tendencies of the Rocaille style, and moved toward neoclassicism. While in Rome, he specialized in busts of distinguished patrons, including Pope Benedict XIII. In 1726 he also began a copy of the Barberini Faun a Classical Helenic sculpture from the Barberini Palace in Rome. His copy arrived in France in 1732, and was greatly admired, and aided the transition of French sculpture toward neoclassicism. In 1775 the duc de Chartres bought it for his elaborate garden at Parc Monceau. It is now in the Louvre.\n\nOn his return to France, he was employed in the royal art workshops at the Palace of Versailles, Working alongside his two brothers, he made statues for the Gardens of Versailles, including the statue of Proteus in the Basin of Neptune. In his style, he resisted the flamboyant Rocaille style of his contemporaries, and tended toward more classical models. Bouchardon sculpted \"Cupid Fashioning a Bow out of the Club of Hercules\", now in the Louvre, for the Gardens of Versailles. It depicted a realistic, unidealized adolescent Cupid in a natural posture, which was completely in contrast with the classical ideals. He first presented the model in terra cotta at the 1739 Salon, then a full-scale model in 1746. He was commissioned to make a marble version, which he created between 1747 and 1750. The work established his reputation, and also his fortune; he was paid a remarkable 21,000 livres.\n\nHis last completed major sculptural work was the Fontaine des Quatre-Saisons on the Rue de Grenelle in Paris, commissioned in 1739, and completed six years later in 1745. This work featured a classical colonnade, decorated with statuary. It was similar in its arrangement of statues made by Michelangelo in the Medici Chapel in Florence. His sculpture was widely admired. It was featured, along with a fine engraving of the fountain, in the article on classical sculpture by J. F. Blondel in the French Encyclopedia of 1765. However, it also drew considerable criticism, the colossal sculptural work on a narrow street provided only a tiny trickle of water. The project was criticized by Voltaire in a letter to the Count de Caylus in 1739, as the fountain was still under construction:\n\nBouchardon was commissioned to make one last major work, an equestrian statue of Louis XV for the Place de la Concorde, to commemorate France's victory in the War of Austrian Succession. He died before the work was finished. It was completed by Jean-Baptiste Pigalle, but was destroyed during the French Revolution.\n\nBouchardon also designed jetons or metal tokens, which were distributed by the King. The subjects and themes were chosen by the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres and passed through an elaborate process of critiques before approval, which involved the King himself. Drawings and counterproofs for these jetons are now held at various museums and collections around the world including the Institut de France, the Musée de la Monnaie, and the Bibliothèque nationale.\n\nBouchardon's brother, Jacques-Philippe Bouchardon, was also a sculptor, who became first sculptor to the king of Sweden.\n\nBouchardon was particularly skilled at drawing, and produced two series of drawings of working people in the streets of Paris. His drawings, made with \"sanguine\" or reddish chalk, were originally used to make a series of smaller ceramic sculptures of Parisian characters, such as street vendors (see gallery). Later they were made into a series of etchings by the historian and engraver Anne Claude de Caylus, under the title \"Studies made of the Lower Class or the Cries of Paris.\" These became a very valuable source of information for later social historians. \n\n"}
{"id": "1798702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798702", "title": "Bohain-en-Vermandois", "text": "Bohain-en-Vermandois\n\nBohain-en-Vermandois () is a commune in the department of Aisne in Hauts-de-France in northern France.\n\nIt is the place where the painter Henri Matisse grew up.\n\nFormerly called Bohain, the town acquired its current name, Bohain-en-Vermandois in 1956.\n\nOwnership of the territory changed frequently during the medieval period, and Bohain continued to find its lordship disputed in the wars of the early modern period. Traces of fortifications (ditches, cannonballs, bases of walls) can not only be found near to the primary school, but also in other spots of the town.\n\nIn its past, Bohain being unequivocally incorporated within France, industry and trading developed and the town became a major center for the textile industry. In parish records from the 17th century one of the most frequent occupations registered was that of \"mulquinier\", although the term is generally used to refer to fine fabrics craftworkers, it seems likely that in these very same records the term was also applied to anyone who worked at the weaver's trade. It is recorded that Napoleon ordered a Bohainais weaver to work for the Empress Joséphine. The old textile factories have closed one after another, but weaving is still considered as a local tradition.\n\nIt has been reported that the Lord (seigneur) of Bohain gave up Joan of Arc to the English during the Hundred Years' War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798710", "title": "Trigo", "text": "Trigo\n\nTrigo may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1798720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798720", "title": "Polly Frost", "text": "Polly Frost\n\nPolly Frost is a New York City-based writer, journalist, and playwright specializing in humor and erotic horror. Frost's current work can be seen performed by various NYC-based actors at the Cornelia Street Cafe . During her early journalistic days, Frost interviewed a variety of people, including Julia Child, Pauline Kael, and Winona Ryder.\n\nFor the past two years, Frost has been touring the country performing her show \"Bad Role Models and What I Learned from Them\" and \"How to Survive Your Adult Relationship with Your Family.\" Frost has been a freelance writer for over 25 years. Her work has appeared in The New Yorker, The Atlantic, The New York Times, Scene4 Magazine, Identity Theory, Exquisite Corpse, Art Design Cafe and Narrative Magazine. In 2010, Frost's humor collection \"With One Eye Open,\" was published. In 2007, her collection of satirical erotic horror and science fiction stories \"Deep Inside\" was published.\n\nFrost published a collection of essays, stories, and humor pieces in 2010 with the title \"With One Eye Open\" (Rapture House).\nShe also co-wrote \"The Bannings\" (2012) with her husband Ray Sawhill. She is a contributing author for several other books, including \"Deep Inside: Extreme Erotic Fantasies\" and two collections of humor that were originally published in The New Yorker magazine.\n\nFrost is married to Ray Sawhill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798725", "title": "Pasumpahan", "text": "Pasumpahan\n\nPasumpahan is an island in the sub-district of Bungus, West Sumatra Province, Indonesia.\n\nLocated 200 m from Sikuai Island, tourism sites in Pasumpahan include white sand beaches and coral reefs.\n"}
{"id": "1798727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798727", "title": "List of Art Deco buildings in Melbourne", "text": "List of Art Deco buildings in Melbourne\n\nThis page is a list of all historically significant Art Deco and Moderne buildings in the Melbourne metropolitan area.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798741", "title": "Jean-Pierre Changeux", "text": "Jean-Pierre Changeux\n\nJean-Pierre Changeux (; born 6 April 1936) is a French neuroscientist known for his research in several fields of biology, from the structure and function of proteins (with a focus on the allosteric proteins), to the early development of the nervous system up to cognitive functions. Although being famous in biological sciences for the MWC model, the identification and purification of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and the theory of epigenesis by synapse selection are also notable scientific achievements. Changeux is known by the non-scientific public for his ideas regarding the connection between mind and physical brain. As put forth in his book, \"Conversations on Mind, Matter and Mathematics\", Changeux strongly supports the view that the nervous system functions in a projective rather than reactive style and that interaction with the environment, rather than being instructive, results in the selection amongst a diversity of preexisting internal representations.\n\nChangeux was born in Domont, France to Marcel Changeux and Jean Benoit. He entered the École Normale Supérieure in 1955, where he obtained a Bachelor's degree (\"Licence\") in 1957 and a Master's degree (\"Diplome d'Études Supérieure\") in 1958. He also received his agrégation in natural science the same year. He began his scientific career during his ENS years during summer internships in Banyuls-sur-Mer where he identified a new genus of parasitic\nCopepod. He pursued PhD studies at the Pasteur Institute under the direction of Jacques Monod and Francois Jacob, and gained his doctorate in 1964. Changeux then left France for postdoctoral studies first at the University of California Berkeley (1965–1966) then at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New-York (1967). He returned to France as attaché to the chair of Molecular Biology held by Jacques Monod. In 1972, he became director of the Unit of Molecular Neurobiology at the Pasteur Institute, where he received a professorship in 1975. In 1975, Changeux was elected professor at the Collège de France, chair of Cell Communications, position that he held until 2006. Changeux is author of more than 600 scientific articles and several books, technical or for general audience.\n\nAll his scientific career, Changeux has been faithful to a handful of scientific questions, at molecular, cellular and brain levels. If one needs to seek a unifying theme to all of them, it is the conviction that selection is the basis of life processes, rather than instruction. While started as separate lines of investigations, all the research threads were tied in the recent decades within the study of allosteric mechanisms as a basis of for the involvement of nicotinic receptors in cognitive functions.\n\n During his PhD studies in the laboratory of Jacques Monod and Francois Jacob, Changeux studied the allosteric regulations of enzymes, that is the modulation of their activity by compounds different from their substrates. This work led to the development of the model of concerted transitions for allosteric proteins. The main ideas behind this theory are: 1) proteins can exist under various conformations in thermal equilibrium in the absence of regulators. The allosteric regulators merely shift the equilibrium between the conformations, stabilizing the ones for which they display the highest affinity, and 2) all the subunits of a symmetrical multimeric protein exist in the same conformation, the transition taking place in a \"concerted\" fashion. The resulting model explains the observed \"cooperativity\" without a progressive change of biophysical parameters. This conceptual framework is still the principal model used to explain the function of cooperative proteins such as hemoglobin.\n\nIn his PhD thesis, Changeux suggested that the recognition and transmission of signals by membrane, and in particular by synapses, could use the same mechanisms as the allosteric regulation of enzymes. More than forty years of research would follow, mainly focussed on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (see below). In 1967, Changeux extended the MWC model to bi-dimensional lattice of receptors (an idea that would also be developed three decades afterward by Dennis Bray). He then applied this idea to the post-synaptic membrane of electric organs (analog to striated muscle). His team demonstrated the existence of several interconvertible states for the nicotinic receptor, resting, open and desensitized, displaying different affinities for the ligands, such as the endogenous agonist acetylcholine. The transitions between the states followed different kinetics, and those kinetics plus the differential affinities sufficed to explain the shape of the post-synaptic potential. A full mechanistic model of the nicotinic receptor from striated muscle (or electric organ) was to be provided much later, when Changeux collaborated with Stuart Edelstein, another specialist of allostery, who worked decades on hemoglobin. In addition to the allosteric modulation of the channel gating by the agonists, many other regulations of the ligand-gated ion channels activity have since been discovered. The modulators bind to a variety of allosteric sites, whether on the agonist binding sites, other binding sites at the subunit interfaces, on the cytoplasmic part of the protein or in the transmembrane domain.\n\nThe concept of an allosteric pharmacology for ion channels was developed over the years. In addition to the well known GABAA receptor positive allosteric modulators (such as benzodiazepines and barbiturate drugs), one can find antiparasitic drug such as ivermectin and glutamate receptor modulators used against Alzheimer's disease such as aniracetam.\n\nIn 1970, Changeux isolated the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor of the eel electric organ, the first ever isolated membrane pharmacological receptor, that he was able to identify thanks to the properties of a snake toxin, which was purified by Taiwanese researchers CY Lee and CC Chang. The isolation of the receptor was also later reported by Ricardo Miledi. The improvements of purification methods developed in the group allowed the proposition that the receptor was a pentameric protein, a finding quickly confirmed by the team of Arthur Karlin. The group of Changeux was among the firsts to elucidate the primary structure of the subunits of the receptor, in parallel with the group of Shosaku Numa and Stephen Heinemann.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, molecular biology technics were used to decipher the tertiary and quaternary structures of the receptor. The location of the ionic pore was identified, made up of the second transmembrane segment, as shown also later by the groups of Shosaku Numa and Ferdinand Hucho. The molecular basis of ionic selectivity were also identified in the transmembrane domain. The structure of the binding site for the acetylcholine and nicotine was located at the interface between adjacent subunits.\n\nThe quest of Changeux for the structure of the nicotinic receptor culminated with the publication of the structure, at atomic resolution, of a bacterial homolog in the open and resting conformations supporting the concept of a symmetrical concerted opening for channel gating, in agreement with molecular dynamics simulations.\n\nIn 1973, together with Philippe Courrège and Antoine Danchin, Changeux proposed a model describing how, during development of the nervous system, the activity of a network could cause the stabilization or regression of the synapses involved and illustrated it with the neuromuscular junction. This model is effectively the precursor of the \"neural Darwinism\" theory further promoted by Gerald Edelman. Changeux later extended and illustrated further this idea. During the 1970s, he tried to document this phenomenon, either by studying mutant animals or by experimental denervation.\n\nWhile until the 1990s, Changeux's group studied the structure of the nicotinic receptor present in electric organs of electric eel and torpedo, the investigations of the physiological role of those receptors were mostly focussed on two model systems: the nicotinic receptors of the neuromuscular junction, the synapse linking the motorneuron to the skeletal muscle, and the nicotinic receptors of the brain, notably in relation with nicotine addiction.\n\nFrom the mid-1980s, the group studied the compartimentalisation of the muscle cell upon development, as a model of synaptogenesis and in relation with the theoretical work on epigenesis. In particular, the group focussed on the accumulation of nicotinic receptors in the post-synaptic region upon development, concommitent to a switch of receptor identity. They were able to decrypt the different signalling pathways involved in the response to synaptic activity, showing that the accumulation resulted from an inhibition of gene transcription outside the synaptic region due to electrical activity triggering an uptake of calcium and activation of PKC, and a stimulation of gene transcription at the synapse by the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) activating PKA and the ARIA (heregulin) activating tyrosine kinase cascades.\n\nThe 1990s saw the progressive shift of interest of Changeux from the neuromuscular junction to the nicotinic receptors expressed in the brain. Among the notable achievements of the group is the discovery that neuronal nicotinic receptors are highly permeable to calcium - which explains the positive effect of nicotinic receptors on the release of many neurotransmitters in the brain.\n\nThe group also discovered that the nicotinic receptor is regulated by a variety of \"allosteric modulators\" such as: 1. calcium ions (This was also discovered independently by the group of John Dani), which binding sites were later identified and localized in the extracellular domain, at the interface between subunits (Le Novère et al. 2002); 2. ivermectin which behaves as a potent positive allosteric modulator binding to a site present in the transmembrane domain (where general anesthetics also bind); 3. phosphorylation of the cytoplasmic domain which regulate desensitization.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, Changeux concentrated most of his interest on the function of nicotinic receptors in the basal ganglia and in particular the mesencephalic dopaminergic system. Using mice deleted for nicotinic receptor genes, the group characterised the types of receptor subunits present in the dopaminergic cells and identified the receptors mainly responsible of the dependence to nicotine, formed by the subunits α4, α6 and β2.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s, Changeux developed an activity of computational modeling in order to investigate the neuronal bases of cognitive functions. This research was mainly performed in collaboration with Stanislas Dehaene, now leading the INSERM-CEA Cognitive Neuroimaging Unit. They notably modeled the acquisition of song recognition in birds and the development of numerical abilities. More recently, Dehaene and Changeux developed a neuronal model for access to consciousness based on a brain-wide recruitment of networks of neurons with long-range axons, referred to as the global neuronal workspace. The model might have clinical applications for instance for understanding the mechanism of coma, the action of general anesthetics or drug addiction\n\nThe publication of his book \"Neuronal Man: The Biology of The Mind\" in 1985 brought Changeux celebrity status among the wider public. Since then, he authored or co-authored several other books inspired by his teaching at the College de France: notably, \"Conversations on Mind Matter and Mathematics\" with the mathematician Alain Connes (1998), \"What Makes Us Think\" with the philosopher Paul Ricoeur (2002) and \"the Physiology of truth\" (2002) that are acknowledged as having initiated an instructive dialogue between the two often-hostile disciplines of neuroscience and philosophy. He has also been concerned by the relationships between aesthetic experience and the brain in \"Raison & Plaisir\" (1994), \"The true the good the beautiful: a neurobiological approach\" (2012) and recently \"Les neurones enchantés\". (2014) where he debates the issue of artistic creation with the music composers Pierre Boulez and Philippe Manoury. Changeux received the Lewis Thomas Prize for Writing about Science, Rockefeller University, New-York, 2005.\n\nChangeux has also been the curator of three major exhibitions on Art and Science: De Nicolo dell'Abate à Nicolas Poussin: aux sources du Classicisme 1550-1650 Musée Bossuet Meaux in 1988, L'Âme au Corps, Arts et Sciences, 1793-1993 (with Gérard Régnier) Galeries nationales du Grand Palais Paris in 1993-1994 and La lumière au siècle des Lumières et aujourd'hui. Art et science : de la biologie de la vision à une nouvelle conception du monde Galeries Poirel Nancy in 2005. Changeux has also chaired the inter-ministry commission for the conservation of the French artistic heritage since 1989, and has been member of the scientific council of the International Agency of museums since 2007.\n\nLast, throughout his career, Changeux has been concerned by the ethical consequences for the city and for the society in general of the recent progress in the Neuroscience. Changeux has headed the National Advisory Committee on Bioethics in France from 1992 to 1998. He organised a scientific conference on the topic, that led to a book he edited, \"fondements naturel de l'ethique\". He is presently the co-chairman of the Ethics and Society division of the European Human Brain Program (since 2013).\n\nHe is also on the Board of Scientific Governors of The Scripps Research Institute, an independent non for profit institute focusing on biomedical research.\n\n\nDeutsche Akademie der Naturforscher Leopoldina zu Halle (Pharmacology), 1974 ; Académie de Médecine de Turin, 1976 ; National Academy of Sciences, Washington (US) (foreign associate), 1983 ; Royal Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, (Sweden) (foreign member), 1985 ; Académie des Sciences, Paris, 1988 ; Académie Royale de Médecine de Belgique (Bruxelles) (foreign honorary member), 1988 ; Academia Europaea (founding member), 1988 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston, (US) (foreign member), 1994 ; Romanian Academy of Medical Sciences, Bucarest (foreign member), 1996 ; Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, Washington, (US) (foreign associate), 2000 ; Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere Ed Arti, Venezia (Italy), 2001 ; Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest (foreign member associate), 2004 ; European Academy of Sciences, Bruxelles (member), 2004 ; International Academy of Humanism; Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres & des Beaux-Arts de Belgique (foreign member), 2010; Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Rome, (Italy) (foreign member), 2010.\n\nDoctor honoris causa : Universities of Torino, Italy, 1989 ; Dundee, Scotland, 1992 ; Geneva, Switzerland, 1994 ; Stockholm, Sweden, 1994 ; Liège, Belgium, 1996 ; Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale of Lausanne, Switzerland, 1996 ; University of Southern California, Los Angeles, US, 1997 ; Bath, UK, 1997 ; Montréal University, Canada, 2000 ; The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, 2004 ; Ohio State University, Columbus, US, 2007; University of Buenos\nAires, Argentina, 2010.\n\nHonorary member of Neurosciences Research Program, MIT and Rockefeller University (US), since 1984; Honorary member of the Japanese Biochemical Society, Sendai, Japan, 1985 ; Honorary member of the American Neurology Association, 1988 ; Honorary member of University College London, 1990 ; Membre d'honneur à titre étranger de la Société Belge de Neurologie, Bruxelles, 1991 ; Member of European Molecular Biology\nOrganization.\n\nGrand Croix dans l'Ordre de la Légion d'Honneur, 2010; Grand-Croix dans l'Ordre National du Mérite 1995 ; Commandeur dans l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, 1994.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798744", "title": "Ark (2005 film)", "text": "Ark (2005 film)\n\nArk is a 2003 American-South Korean animated science fiction film directed by Subro Adonis, animated by Digital Rim. It is the flagship project for both the director and the studio.\n\nAttempting to address the failures of \"\", the film is an attempt to merge anime-style visuals with a faster, action-oriented plot more palatable to Western audiences.\n\nThe film's plot features many archetypes taken from \"Final Fantasy\"-style Japanese console RPGs; a young male resistance fighter, a young girl with special powers who unknowingly is her planet's Messiah, an evil \"right-hand man\", and a small, cute pet mascot. It is the spiritual successor to \"Elysium (2003)\" which takes place in the same universe as the film. \n\n\"Ark\" takes place on a dying alien world in which a global war between two technologically advanced human civilizations has reduced the planet to a wasteland. The only way to escape the world is by activating the Ark, an ancient giant robot capable of supporting a human city as well as traveling through space.\n\nJames Woods plays Jallak, the military general of the reigning civilization, the Storrians, who captured the Ark from the Ceveans. But they are unable to get the Ark to work in order to save their people. The Ceveans, having been enslaved and with only the wasteland to roam free are constantly attacked and brutalised by the Storrians. A leader of their resistance movement is a young resistance fighter named Rogan. Rogan is arrested during a resistance uprising, but manages to escape. He bumps into the general's adopted daughter Amarinth, whom the general had secretly rescued from a Cevean hibernation pod cluster where they had hidden their children for safety. They then meet again during a civilian protest rally and she offers to help hide him and tend to his wounds. Rogan goes with her back to her apartment and meets her pet JuJu, but then vanishes when he discovers she's the Storrian general's daughter.\n\nBaramanda, the Empress's manipulative right-hand man, arrives unexpectedly to take Amarinth into custody after discovering the truth of her lineage. Rogan helps her escape from Baramanda and takes her to the resistance base within the slave quarters of the Ark. There she meets with an elderly man who explains Amarinth's birthright with the help of JuJu, who turns out to have originally belonged to him. Unknown to Rogan, and to Amarinth herself, she turns out to be the daughter of the Cevean priestess who originally built the Ark, Amiel, who had disappeared 100 years earlier. \nAmiel helped construct not just the Ark the Storrians hold, but another known as The Ark of York. The plans for the Arks passed down from the Gods (another alien race). It took all her strength to create them, causing her to fall into a deep sleep and not awaken again. Before entering her eternal hibernation, she placed her very young daughter into the hidden hibernation pod. Then her body was secretly hidden by her people until discovered by the Storrians.\n\nThey find Amiel's molecular structure enables her body to generate a pulsing electronic field throughout her bloodstream. Not only does this make her body perfectly preserved despite how long she had been inactive, it is the reason the Arks will not work: she and Amarinth are descendants of the gods themselves and only they have the ability to pilot the Arks. A cell of her dead blood can supply power to an entire building, but it becomes apparent that no matter how much energy Amiel's body retains, since she is dead it's not enough to move the ark.\n\nBoth civilizations scramble to use Amiel's daughter, Amarinth, to activate their Ark and leave the other civilization behind to die. However, Amarinth, who has ties to both civilizations, wishes to try to find a way to use her power to save everyone. She is opposed by the lifeforce-stealing wraith Baramanda, who wishes to steal the power of the Ark for his own selfish purposes.\n\nAmarinth after going to the Ark of York, refuses to pilot it and leave the Storrians behind. Despite her lineage as a Cevean, she was raised as a Storrian. When she finds out her father, Jallak, had been arrested for high treason and was to be executed for hiding her, she demands that Rogan and the others help her rescue him if they want her help. They agree and return to save him.\n\nAfter freeing Jallak, Baramunda tries to drain Amarith's blood but is stopped by Amiel who awakens momentarily to stop him. All escape but Jallak remains behind to save his people, as the Ark starts to fall apart. Rogan takes Amarinth back to The Ark of York as Baramanda merges with the core of the other Ark and awakens it. Amarinth discovers that, just as her mother Amiel died in constructing the Arks, so she would perish to pilot one. Rogan and Amarinth kiss for the first and final time as she merges with the core of York just as The Ark comes stomping up to it. The Arks clash in a giant battle with the earth breaking down beneath their feet. Amarinth grabs the city plate off of SidArk as Jallak and his friend set the self-destruct mechanism. They perish in the explosion as the planet begins to crumble.\n\nRogan narrates at the end as it shows The Ark of York kneeling with the SidArk city plate on another planet flourishing with vegetation. He states that no one knew both civilizations would make it and neither does anyone think it would work out, living together, sharing the planet. He continues saying that it was hard to imagine that their old world, which was now no more, might have looked like this before the war. So the Storrians and Ceveans are going to try to coexist, to preserve this planet and Amarinth's sacrifice. It's difficult at times, and Rogan wishes that Amarinth was there to bridge the gap between the two civilizations. He states that they could have learned so much from her, but that they already had.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798748", "title": "Derviş Eroğlu", "text": "Derviş Eroğlu\n\nDerviş Eroğlu (born March 7, 1938) is a Turkish Cypriot politician, who served as the third President of Northern Cyprus. Previously, he was Prime Minister (1985–94, 1996–2004 and again 2009–10) and twice-leader of the National Unity Party. He became President on 23 April 2010, serving until 30 April 2015.\n\nEroğlu was born in Famagusta in 1938. He studied medicine at Istanbul University, graduating in 1963. He later specialised in urology.\n\nEroğlu entered the Assembly of the Republic of the then-\"Turkish Federated State of Northern Cyprus\" in 1976, serving as Minister of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports during 1976–77. He served as member of the de facto Northern Cyprus (TRNC) Constituent Assembly in November 1983. As the leader of the National Unity Party (UBP), he was appointed Prime Minister in four successive governments between 1985 and 1993 (he was opposition leader between 1994 and 1996), and from 1996 until his party lost the general election to the Republican Turkish Party under Mehmet Ali Talat in 2004. Eroğlu's UBP won the majority of seats in the legislative election of 18 April 2009, and Eroğlu became Prime Minister again.\n\nOn 21 November 2005, Eroğlu resigned as leader of the UBP, stating that \"it was time for younger blood to take control\", but was re-elected to the chair in November 2008. Eroğlu was elected to the office of President of Northern Cyprus on 18 April 2010. Because the UN does not recognize the TRNC, it regards Derviş Eroğlu as bona fide negotiator for the Turkish Cypriot community of the Republic of Cyprus.\n\nIn the 2015 general elections, he was defeated by Mustafa Akıncı.\n"}
{"id": "1798757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798757", "title": "Joseph de Pasquale", "text": "Joseph de Pasquale\n\nJoseph de Pasquale (October 14, 1919 – June 22, 2015) was an American violist.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Joseph de Pasquale was a student of Louis Bailly, Max Aronoff and William Primrose at the Curtis Institute of Music. He was the principal violist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra from 1947 to 1964, and then, at the request of Eugene Ormandy, principal violist of the Philadelphia Orchestra until 1995. At a certain point, three of his brothers (William, Robert, and Francis; who formed the de Pasquale String Quartet with him) played with him in the Philadelphia Orchestra, with three of the brothers boasting first desk seatings. \n\nJoseph de Pasquale performed and recorded with Angelin Chang, Jascha Heifetz, Ruggiero Ricci, Isaac Stern, Gregor Piatigorsky, Norman Carol, and Anshel Brusilow, among others. He also premiered several important compositions of the viola repertoire, including the Viola Concerto by Walter Piston and the Viola Sonata by George Rochberg, and recorded for the RCA, Sony, Boston, Albany Records, and Decca labels.\n\nUntil his death at age 95, Joseph de Pasquale was Professor of Viola at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. He raised a whole generation of prominent violists, among them Roberto Diaz, Stephen Wyrczynski, Viacheslav Dinerchtein, Richard Fleischman and Cathy Basrak. At the time of his retirement from the Philadelphia Orchestra, 2/3 of the violators section's players were his former students. \n"}
{"id": "1798760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798760", "title": "WPCB-TV", "text": "WPCB-TV\n\nWPCB-TV, virtual channel 40 (UHF digital channel 28), is a television station serving Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States that is licensed to Greensburg. It is the flagship station of the religious television network Cornerstone Television, which originates most of its programs from the station. WPCB-TV's studios and transmitter are co-located in Wall, Pennsylvania. \n\nOn cable, WPCB-TV is carried on Comcast Xfinity channel 5 (channel 2 in Bethel Park, channel 9 in Monroeville) in standard definition and channel 805 in high definition, and Verizon FiOS channels 5 (standard definition) and 505 (high-definition).\n\nWKBS-TV (channel 47) in Altoona operates as a full-time satellite of WPCB.\n\nIn the 1960s, Rev. Russ Bixler was visiting the Virginia Beach area and came across independent station WYAH-TV, which was running an all-Christian format. Bixler came to visit the Christian Broadcasting Network studios, meeting Pat Robertson and Jim Bakker. Concluding that Pittsburgh needed a similar station, Bixler applied for the channel 22 license in the 1970s, but lost to Commercial Radio Institute, a forerunner of Sinclair Broadcast Group in 1975, who would launch that station as secular independent WPTT-TV in 1978. Bixler then applied for a license on channel 40, and was granted a construction permit for that channel in 1976.\n\nAfter several hurdles, Bixler was able to get the needed equipment and was able to sell a few hours a day of programming time to Christian organizations. WPCB-TV finally began operations on April 15, 1979. The station was initially on the air for 15 hours a day, and within a year expanded to a 24-hour schedule. Programming consisted of several runs a day of the two-hour edition of the \"PTL Club\", the 90-minute edition of \"The 700 Club\", several other shows produced by CBN for the CBN Cable channel, a few children's educational and religious shows, televangelists like Jimmy Swaggart, Rex Humbard, Oral Roberts and Jerry Falwell, and some local church programs. The station also produced a local variety talk and music show, \"Getting Together\". WPCB-TV's programming remains entirely Christian-oriented to this day. From before their sign on, when a person phones the station, the receptionists answer \"Jesus Loves You TV 40\".\n\nOver the decades, owing to holding a license to operate a commercial television station, WPCB-TV has received countless offers from commercial broadcasters wanting to convert the station into a conventional independent station, but has flatly refused them each time. However, in 1998, Cornerstone attempted to buy the license for non-commercial station WQEX (channel 16), which would have required a sale of the channel 40 license. Paxson Communications made an offer to buy channel 40; if the deal went through, it would have been relaunched as a Pax TV owned-and-operated station under the call letters WKPX-TV. However, at that time the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) did not deem WPCB-TV's religious programming as educational, and Cornerstone's application was withdrawn in 2000; channel 40 was then taken off the market. In 2002, the FCC reversed its position (WQEX was converted into a commercial license later that year; in 2011, it was sold to Paxson's successor, Ion Media Networks, and now carries programming from Pax TV's successor Ion Television as WINP-TV).\n\nRuss Bixler died in 2000, and Ron Hembree, who hosted a program on WPCB-TV, took over as the station's president. Hembree died in June 2010.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWPCB-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 40, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 50. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798771", "title": "Edwin Arthur Jones", "text": "Edwin Arthur Jones\n\nEdwin Arthur Jones, (June 28, 1853 – January 9, 1911) was an American composer. He was called \"one modest man who knows the power of music\" by Edward Everett Hale. These include a masterful cantata and a large oratorio in three parts, modeled after Handel's \"Messiah\".\n\nEdwin Arthur Jones was born at 9 Pearl Street in Stoughton, Massachusetts on June 28, 1853. After studies at the New England Conservatory of Music in violin, organ and harmony, Jones entered Dartmouth College in 1872.\n\nThat same year, when he was only 19, Jones was a violinist among the thousands of instrumentalists and singers who played at the World's Peace Jubilee and International Musical Festival in Boston, organized by bandmaster Patrick Gilmore. One of the special invited guests was the Viennese composer, Johann Strauss Jr., who performed some of his popular waltzes.\n\nE.A. Jones graduated from Dartmouth College in 1876, where he was Class President, Director of the Dartmouth Glee Club, First violinist in the Dartmouth College Orchestra, one of the editors of the college newspaper, and he was named Captain of the Dartmouth Big Green baseball team in 1875.\n\nAfter graduation, he went to Baltimore to help his family run a store. His first major composition was a delightful set of waltzes for solo piano, \"The Farewell Waltzes\", which he had composed while at Dartmouth College. This composition was published in Baltimore in 1874. He also made an arrangement for chamber orchestra.\n\nSix years later, in 1880, his \"First String Quartet\" was performed at the Peabody Concervatory in Baltimore, where it was well received. He then returned to his home town in Massachusetts.\n\nAfter returning to Stoughton, Jones formed his own orchestra of 20 musicians. A photo of his orchestra was taken in 1885.\n\nIn 1881, he composed his masterpiece — a large cantata for soloists, chorus, organ and orchestra, \"Song of Our Saviour\". This cantata was never performed during his lifetime and received its world premiere over one hundred years later on May 3, 1992. The cantata was a reworking of an earlier composition, The Nativity Hymn, one of only four to receive honorable mention in 1879 in the Cincinnati College of Music competition, judged by the distinguished American conductor, Theodore Thomas.\n\nThe other major choral work by Jones was his oratorio, \"Easter Concert\", for soloists, chorus and orchestra. It was published in 1890 in a piano-vocal score by White-Smith Music Publishing Company in Boston. This version received its first modern day performance on April 26, 1981. Unfortunately, the orchestral parts have not been located for the oratorio.\n\nBesides his two large choral works, Jones also composed other vocal works, including:\n\nBlessing and Glory: Fugue - Tenors and Basses (1874); Praise Ye The Lord - Tenors and Basses (1874); Wake, Maiden Wake - Tenors and Basses (1881); King Christian - Bass solo and SATB Chorus (1886); Old Stoughton - SATB Chorus (1886);\nOde to Music - SATB Chorus (1888); Love Hailed a Little Maid - Soprano solo and piano (1888); Snowflakes - Soprano solo and piano (1888); Hail, Smiling Morn! - Bass solo and chamber ensemble (undated); Lord, Dismiss Is With Thy Blessing - SATB Chorus (undated).\n\nAmong his instrumental works are:\n\nTwo String Trios - in D Major and G Major (1878); String Quartet No. 1 in F Major (1880); Dedication March - for orchestra (1881); Suite Ancienne - for orchestra (1886); String Quartet No 2 in G minor (1887) - first performed at Mrs. J. L. (Isabella Stewart) Gardener's home in Boston by the Kneissel Quartet in 1889.\n\nJones was a member of the two choral societies in town: The Stoughton Musical Society, founded in 1786 and now the oldest choral society in America, and The Musical Society in Stoughton, founded in 1802, disbanded in 1982. He was largely responsible for the Stoughton Musical Society's invitation to perform at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893.\n\nE.A. Jones is also remembered for his participation as a member of the School Committee for fifteen years, Trustee of the Public Library, President of the Fortnightly Club, and Secretary of the Chicataubut Club. In addition, he designed the Stoughton Town Seal in 1892. Today, there is a school named for him on Walnut Street in Stoughton. He died at his family's home on Pearl Street on January 9, 1911, at the age of 57.\n\n\nRoger L. Hall, \"E..A. Jones: His Life and Music,\" (biographical booklet), Stoughton, MA: Old Stoughton Musical Society, 1984.\n\n_____________, \"Jones, Edwin Arthur\" in \"The New Grove Dictionary of American Music,\" Vol. Two (MacmillanPress, 1986), p 591.\n\n_____________, \"Music in Stoughton: A Brief Survey,\" (booklet), Stoughton, MA: PineTree Press, 1989.\n\n_____________, \"Ten Town Tunes, Music from Stoughton, 1770-1990,\" (music collection), PineTree Press, 1998\n\nStandish, Lemuel W. Editor. The Old Stoughton Musical Society: An Historical and Informative Record of the Oldest Choral Society in America. Stoughton, MA: The Old Stoughton Musical Society, 1929. \n"}
{"id": "1798775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798775", "title": "Because I Got High", "text": "Because I Got High\n\n\"Because I Got High\" is a song by American rapper Afroman from his eponymous album. The lyrics of the song describe how cannabis use is degrading the narrator's quality of life. The song, which was written in only a few minutes, rose from obscurity to popularity after it was circulated around the Internet and was featured on \"The Howard Stern Show\".\n\nThe song explains how the narrator has forgotten to clean his room, failed his college class (which he plans to take next semester), sold kush (after losing his job), missed court dates, had his paycheck garnished due to missed child support payments, gambled away his car payment, became a paraplegic as the result of a police chase, lost his family (including his wife and children), had ruined his \"entire life\", and is now homeless \"because [he] got high\" – he ultimately decides to end the song, and states that he is \"singing the whole thing wrong, because [he is] high\". After this, Afroman mentions his name and birthplace (East Palmdale), says the tumbleweed he smokes is \"bomb as hell\" and then says he does not believe in Hitler (a reference to John Lennon's \"God\"). The music video was directed by Kevin Smith and featured Jay and Silent Bob smoking with Afroman, a cameo by 'Beer Man', as well as a glimpse of the Quick Stop where \"Clerks\" was filmed.\n\nAfroman released his album \"Because I Got High\" in 2000; he distributed it mainly through concerts. The title track was soon posted on file-sharing service Napster and made it to \"The Howard Stern Show\". This song was the theme song of the film \"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back\" and was later featured in the films \"Disturbia\", \"A Thousand Words\", and \"The Perfect Score\".\n\nAfter the success of this single, Afroman was signed to Universal Records.\n\nOn the album \"Mobilize\" by punk band Anti-Flag, after several minutes of silence on the album's end track, a friend of the band called Spaz can be heard singing parts of the song with Anti-Flag.\n\nAfroman re-recorded the song with new lyrics for his 2009 album \"Frobama Head of State\". A second re-recording of the song, called the \"Positive Remix,\" was released by Afroman through YouTube on October 15, 2014 as part of a collaboration with Weedmaps and NORML. In contrast to the original version, the lyrics of this version deal with the positive effects of marijuana legalization.\n\nBob Rivers included a Christmas-themed version, \"Be Claus I Got High\", on the 2002 album \"White Trash Christmas\", the fifth in Rivers's line of Christmas parody albums.\n\nBBC Radio 1 DJ Chris Moyles recorded a parody under the pseudonym \"Afro-Blair\" featuring Jon Culshaw and another impressionist singing in the guise of the serving Prime Minister Tony Blair, then Leader of the Opposition William Hague and former Prime Ministers John Major and Margaret Thatcher.\n\nThe parody artist Rucka Rucka Ali made a version of the song called \"Because I'm White\".\n\nA parody was made about British politician Michael Gove after his scandal involving cocaine use.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798777", "title": "Janey Godley", "text": "Janey Godley\n\nJaney Godley (born 20 January 1961) is a Scottish stand-up comedian and writer from Calton, Glasgow.\n\nGodley began her stand up career in 1994. She won an award for the \"Best Show Concept\" at the New Zealand International Comedy Festival in 2002, and the \"Spirit of the Festival\" in 2006. In 2005 her autobiography \"Handstands in the Dark\" was published. In 2006, she was a finalist for the Edinburgh Evening Times' \"Scotswoman of the Year\" award. In 2002, 2006, 2008 and 2009, she was nominated as \"Best International Guest\" by the New Zealand Comedy Guild.\n\nHer TV appearances include \"River City\", \"Sam Delaney's News Thing\", \"The Alex Salmond Show\" and \"Have I Got News for You\". She appears in the film \"Wild Rose\".\n\nGodley often makes spoof voice-overs of videos.\n\nHer daughter Ashley Storrie is also a stand-up comedian, and the two have worked together, both in support of the National Autistic Society of Scotland, as well as performing together at the Edinburgh Fringe in 2016.\n\nIn February 2016 Godley joined a group of comedians on a tour of the UK in support of Labour party leader Jeremy Corbyn, although she is a supporter of the Scottish National Party.\n\nIn 2016 Godley was pictured standing outside Donald Trump's Turnberry Golf resort holding a sign stating \"Trump is a Cunt\", which went viral. She was prevented from approaching her subject by Police Scotland. Following a protest in Glasgow which she organised in November 2016 just prior to the election of Trump as President, she received rape threats through Twitter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798779", "title": "Godbeites", "text": "Godbeites\n\nThe Godbeites were members of the \"Godbeite Church\", officially called the \"Church of Zion\", organized in 1870 by William S. Godbe. This dissident offshoot of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) was aimed toward embracing all belief systems. Known for embracing spiritualism and mysticism, the church died out by the 1880s.\n\nIn 1868, Godbe and other Mormon merchants began criticizing the economic demands and policies of Brigham Young in \"Utah Magazine\", a periodical that would eventually become \"The Salt Lake Tribune\". Godbe and several other proponents were excommunicated from the church on October 25, 1869. Godbe wanted to reform the LDS Church and believed that political reform—namely, breaking Young's control over secular matters in the territory—could help spur religious reform.\n\nThe Godbeites were the original core of Utah Territory's Liberal Party, although as the party became more explicitly anti-Mormon and critical of polygamy, the Godbeite influence on the Liberal Party died out.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798789", "title": "Kuzma Minin", "text": "Kuzma Minin\n\nKuzma (Kozma) Minin (; full name Kuzma Minich Zakhariev-Sukhoruky, died 1616) was a Russian merchant from Nizhny Novgorod, Russia, who, together with Prince Dmitry Pozharsky, became a national hero for his role in defending the country against the Polish invasion in the early 17th century.\n\nA native of Balakhna, Minin was a prosperous butcher (meat trader) in the city of Nizhny Novgorod. When the popular patriotic movement to organize volunteer corps in his home city was formed, the merchants chose Minin, a trusted and respected member of the guild, to oversee the handling of the public funds donated by them to raise and equip the Second Volunteer Army (Второе народное ополчение).\n\nThe army led by prince Dmitry Pozharsky was credited with clearing the Moscow Kremlin of Polish forces on November 1, 1612. Minin distinguished himself as a skilled commander and was made a nobleman and member of the Boyar Duma under the newly elected Tsar Michael Romanov. He died in 1616 and was interred in the Archangel Cathedral of Nizhny Novgorod. A central square of that city is named after him and Prince Pozharsky.\n\nMinin had a single son, Nefed. After Minin's death his property rights passed to his widow, Tatyana Semyonovna, and his son. A royal decree was issued on July 5, 1616, confirming the family's possession of an estate in the Nizhny Novgorod district consisting of the town of Bogorodskoye with its associated villages. Additionally, Nefed Minin owned property in the Kremlin of Nizhny Novgorod, although after the completion of his service, he lived mostly in Moscow where he worked as a government clerk. In 1625 he attended the departure of the Persian ambassador and in 1626 he is recorded as standing by the sovereign's lantern at two royal weddings. No mention is made of him in official records after 1628. Nefed died in 1632 and the lands granted to his father reverted to the crown before being passed to Prince Jacob Kudenekovich Cherkassky.\n\nTatyana Minin continued to live in Nizhny Novgorod. It appears that at an advanced age she took monastic vows and entered a convent – most likely the Resurrection Convent, located inside the city's Kremlin.\n\nMinin is generally well regarded by later historians such as Ivan Zabelin and Mikhail Pogodin, having gained respect for his heroic actions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798793", "title": "National Cornbread Festival", "text": "National Cornbread Festival\n\nThe National Cornbread Festival is a celebration of cornbread and cornbread-related activities. The festival is held in South Pittsburg, Tennessee every year during the last full weekend in April. Among the attractions featured at the National Cornbread Festival are:\n\n\nIn the year 2000 the National Cornbread Festival was selected as one of the top 100 events in North America by the American Bus Association.\n\nMatthew Tichenor of Birmingham, AL\n\nChad Campbell of Florence, AL\n\nNicholas Harris of Huntsville, AL\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798796", "title": "Part-time job", "text": "Part-time job\n\nA part-time job is a form of employment that carries fewer hours per week than a full-time job. They work in shifts. The shifts are often rotational. Workers are considered to be part-time if they commonly work fewer than 30 hours per week. According to the International Labour Organization, the number of part-time workers has increased from one-quarter to a half in the past 20 years in most developed countries, excluding the United States. There are many reasons for working part-time, including the desire to do so, having one's hours cut back by an employer and being unable to find a full-time job. The International Labour Organisation Convention 175 requires that part-time workers be treated no less favourably than full-time workers.\n\nIn some cases the nature of the work itself may require that the employees be classified part as part-time workers. For example, some amusement parks are closed during winter months and keep only a skeleton crew on hand for maintenance and office work. As a result of this cutback in staffing during the off season, employees who operate rides, run gaming stands, or staff concession stands may be classified as part-time workers owing to the months long down time during which they may be technically employed, but not necessarily on active duty.\n\nIn the EU, there is a strong East–West divide, where: \"in Central and Eastern European countries part-time work remains a marginal phenomenon even among women, while the Western countries have embraced it much more widely.\" The highest percentage of part-time work is in the Netherlands (see below) and the lowest in Bulgaria. There is also a gap between women (32.1% EU average in 2015) and men (8.9%).\n\nThe Netherlands has by far the highest percentage of part-time workers in the EU and in the OECD. In 2012, 76.9% of women and 24.9% of men worked part-time. The high percentage of women working part-time has been explained by social norms and the historical context of the country, where women were among the last in Europe to enter the workforce, and when they did, most of them did so on a part-time basis; according to \"The Economist\", fewer Dutch men had to fight in the World Wars of the 20th century, and so Dutch women did not experience working for pay at rates women in other countries did. The wealth of the country, coupled with the fact that \"[Dutch] politics was dominated by Christian values until the 1980s\" meant that Dutch women were slower to enter into the workforce. Research in 2016 led by professor Stijn Baert (Ghent University) debunked the idea that part-time work by students is an asset for their CV in respect of later employment chances.\n\n\nPart-time employment in Australia involves a comprehensive framework. Part-time employees work fewer hours than their full-time counterparts within a specific industry. This can vary, but is generally less than 32 hours per week. Part-time employees within Australia are legally entitled to paid annual leave, sick leave, and having maternity leave etc. except it is covered on a 'pro-rata' (percentage) basis depending on the hours worked each week. Furthermore, as a part-time employee is guaranteed a \nular roster within a workplace, they are given an annular salary paid each week, fortnight, or month. Employers within Australia are obliged to provide minimum notice requirements for termination, redundancy and change of rostered hours in relation to part-time workers. As of January 2010, the number of part-time workers within Australia was approximately 3.3 million out of the 10.9 million individuals within the Australian workforce.\n\nIn Canada, part-time workers are those who usually work fewer than 30 hours per week at their main or only job. In 2007, just over 1 in every 10 employees aged 25 to 54 worked part-time. A person who has a part-time placement is often contracted to a company or business in which they have a set of terms they agree with. 'Part-time' can also be used in reference to a student (usually in higher education) who works only few hours a day. Usually students from different nations (India, China, Mexico etc.) prefer Canada for their higher studies due to the availability of more part-time jobs.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, working part-time is defined as working between 1 and 34 hours per week. In 2018, between 25 and 28 million Americans worked part-time. Typically, part-time employees in the United States are not entitled to employee benefits, such as health insurance. The Institute for Women's Policy Research reports that females are nine times likelier than males to work in a part-time capacity over a full-time capacity as a result of caregiving demands of their family members.\n\nIncreasing use of part-time workers in the United States is associated with employee scheduling software often resulting in expansion of the part-time workforce, reduction of the full-time workforce and scheduling which is unpredictable and inconvenient.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798797", "title": "Full-time job", "text": "Full-time job\n\nA full-time job is employment in which a person works a minimum number of hours defined as such by their employer. Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time, temporary, or flexible workers, such as annual leave, sickleave, and health insurance. Part-time jobs are mistakenly thought by some to not be careers. However, legislation exists to stop employers from discriminating against part-time workers so this should not be a factor when making decisions on career advancement. They generally pay more than part-time jobs per hour, and this is similarly discriminatory if the pay decision is based on part-time status as a primary factor. The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not define full-time employment or part-time employment. This is a matter generally to be determined by the employer (US Department of Labor). The definition by employer can vary and is generally published in a company's Employee Handbook. Companies commonly require from 32 to 40 hours per week to be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits.\n\nFull-time status varies between company and is often based on the shift the employee must work during each work week. The \"standard\" work week consists of five eight-hour days, commonly served between 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM or 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM totaling 40 hours. While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days, it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a total of a 36-hour work week. Twelve-hour shifts are often three days per week, unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime. Overtime is legally paid out anytime an employee works more than 40 hours per week. The legal minimum for overtime starts at Base Pay + One-Half. The increased payout is considered to compensate slightly for the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts. Shifts can also be very irregular, as in retail, but are still full-time if the required number of hours is reached. There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time, which is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker.\n\nFull-time workweeks:\n\nA person working more than full-time is working overtime, and may be entitled to extra per-hour wages (but not salary).\n\n“Full-time” can also be used in reference to a student (usually in higher education) who takes a full load of course work each academic term. The distinction between a full-time and part-time student varies markedly from country to country. As an example, in the United States a student is commonly defined as being in full-time education when they undertake 12 or more credit hours. This translates to 12 \"hours\" (often of 50 minutes instead of 60 minutes each) in class per week. \"Lab hours\" often count for less, only as one-half or one-third of a credit hour.\n\nInternational students must maintain full-time status for student visas. Adult students (typically up to age 22 or 23) may also fall under their parents' health insurance (and possibly car insurance and other services) if they are full-time, except for one term per year (usually summer). Students may also be eligible for elected office in student government or other student organizations only if they are full-time. The Department of Labor has a full-time student program which allows employers to pay no less than 85% of the minimum wage to the student/employee.\nhttps://www.jobfind.online/2019/12/maharashtra-police-bharti-2019.html\n\n"}
{"id": "1798798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798798", "title": "Baltic Defense", "text": "Baltic Defense\n\nThe Baltic Defense (also known as the Grau Defense, or the Sahovic Defense) is a chess opening characterized by the moves\n\nThis defense is an unusual variation of the Queen's Gambit Declined (QGD). Since Black usually struggles to develop his queen bishop in most responses to the QGD, this opening takes a radical approach by developing the queen bishop immediately.\n\nThe Baltic has not found widespread acceptance among chess masters, but some world-class players have employed it, including grandmasters Paul Keres and Alexei Shirov.\n\nThe \"ECO\" code for the Baltic Defense is D06.\nFollowing ...Bf5, White has a number of potential responses, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798799", "title": "Wesley Mission", "text": "Wesley Mission\n\nWesley Mission is a name used by three independent Uniting Church groups which are a part the Uniting Missions Network of UnitingCare Australia. These predominantly grew out of inner city \"Central Methodist Missions\" of the Methodist Church of Australasia. Most of the Methodist \"City Missions\" of that era later joined together to form Mission Australia.\n\nWesley Mission operates out of over 200 centres and employs over 2000 staff with a budget of $160 million.\n\nMethodists began doing welfare work in Sydney in 1812. This work became Sydney's \"Central Methodist Mission\" in 1884. In 1946 it opened a psychiatric care facility, now known as Wesley Hospital Ashfield. It later opened another mental health hospital in Korgarah.\n\nIn 1963, while led by Reverend Dr Sir Alan Walker, it established Lifeline, now Australia's largest national phone support service and operating in 19 countries.\n\nIn 1977, it became known as \"Wesley Central Mission\" when it became part of the Uniting Church at its founding. In 1978 Gordon Moyes became Superintendent, and it started producing the nationally broadcast TV show \"Turn Around Australia\" (now \"Wesley Impact! TV\") on Nine Network Australia. In 1979, Edward Eagar Lodge opened, extending on earlier homeless housing work started in 1866. In 1989, it established the \"Wesley Institute\", an educational organisation that is now known as Excelsia College (and left the organisation in 2013). In 1994, the organisation's name changed to \"Wesley Mission\". In 1995 it established \"Wesley LifeForce\", now Australia's largest provider of anti-suicide training.\n\nRev Dr. Keith Vincent Garner became Superintendent in 2006.\n\n\"Newcastle City Mission\" was founded in 1940 by a group of Newcastle business people with the aim of assisting those in distress and poverty throughout Newcastle and the Hunter Valley. In 1999, Newcastle City Mission merged with Wesley Mission Sydney to become Wesley Mission Newcastle.\n\nWesley Mission Newcastle services the Newcastle and Hunter region. Services delivered from the Newcastle offices include gambling and financial counselling, youth services, a seniors living centre, vocational training, home and community care, emergency relief, a retail furniture store, family services and chaplaincy.\n\nQueensland's Methodists began in Brisbane in 1847, Albert Street, Brisbane, doing a variety of welfare work. This work grew into the \"Brisbane Central Methodist Mission\", offering a broad range of services to Brisbane's poor. In 1936 Queensland's first aged care community, it opened the Garden Settlement (now Wheller Gardens), in Chermside. They changed their name to Wesley Mission Queensland in 2016.\n\nBy 2017, it was providing services for 100,000 people each year, including childcare for 1338 children and 13 aged care services and retirement living for more than 4000 older people, over 600 free meals pre provided each week from Emergency and Hardship service.\n\nWesley Mission Victoria (previously Wesley Mission Melbourne) provides a range of community services that help people improve their quality of life and increase their social and economic participation. It works across a range of service areas including aged care, children youth and family, crisis and homelessness, disability, and employment.\n\nWesley is the organisation behind some of Melbourne's best known and most valued community services, including the Lifeline Melbourne telephone counselling service and Wesley Do Care - a social support service helping older people stay socially active and participate in their community.\n\nWesley Mission Victoria was established as the \"Melbourne Central Methodist Mission\" in 1893, next to the Wesley Church in Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. At that time, the area was known as the 'back slums' of Melbourne and was notorious for opium dens, gambling houses and places of ill-repute.\n\nWesley's heritage is founded on the response of Wesleyan Methodists in Victoria to the severe economic depression and associated inner city poverty of the early 1890s.\n\nToday the organisation employs over 800 staff and receives the support of over 1,600 volunteers who help to deliver more than 50 services across metropolitan Melbourne.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798808", "title": "R. Luke DuBois", "text": "R. Luke DuBois\n\nRoger Luke DuBois (born 10 September 1975, Morristown, New Jersey, United States) is an American composer, performer, conceptual new media artist, programmer, record producer and pedagogue based in New York City.\n\nDuBois was born in New Jersey, moving at age 11 to London, England, where he attended the American School in London, before moving to New York City in 1993 to attend Columbia University. DuBois holds a master's (1999) and a doctorate (2003) in music composition from Columbia (studying primarily with Fred Lerdahl and Jonathan Kramer), and worked as a staff researcher at Columbia's Computer Music Center until 2008.\n\nDuBois has taught interactive music and video performance at a number of institutions, including Columbia, Princeton University, the School of Visual Arts, and the Music Technology and interactive telecommunications programs at New York University. In 2008 he began teaching as a full-time professor at the NYU Tandon School of Engineering, where he currently serves as co-director of the Integrated Digital Media program and director of the Brooklyn Experimental Media Center; his academic position consists of a triple appointment between the Engineering School, Music Technology, and ITP. As a graduate student at Columbia he was a contributor to Real-Time Cmix. Since 2000 he has worked for Cycling '74 on Max/MSP/Jitter.\n\nDuBois has collaborated with a wide range of artists and musicians, including Elliott Sharp, Paul D. Miller, Todd Reynolds, Toni Dove, Chris Mann, Michael Joaquin Grey, Matthew Ritchie, Eric Singer, Bora Yoon, and Leroy Jenkins. He was a founding member of the Freight Elevator Quartet, and has produced records for Bang on a Can composer Michael Gordon on the Nonesuch label. His music integrates real-time performer-computer interaction with algorithmic methodologies repurposed from other fields, most notably formal grammars such as L-systems. His research into issues of musical time revolves around a technique called time-lapse phonography, as used in his piece Billboard. His instrumental writing, like his artwork, is often based on techniques derived from stochastic music and data mining, using metaphors and information from cultural topics as source material in a postmodern style, as in the string quartet \"Hard Data\", a six-movement sonification that, while its musical structure is based on the casualty stream of the Iraq War, borrows heavily from the instrumental writing of Stravinsky, Messiaen, Xenakis, and Crumb.\n\nAs a conceptual artist, DuBois takes on various topics in American culture and places them under a computational microscope to raise issues relevant to information theory, perception of time, canonicity, and gaze. For example, his trio of pieces on gestalt media, \"Academy\", \"Billboard\", and \"Play\", look at three iconic cultural \"canons\" in American popular culture (the Academy Awards, the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and Playboy magazine's Playmate of the Month). His piece \"Hindsight is Always 20/20\", based on a statistical analysis of presidential State of the Union addresses, uses computational means as a lens into the politics of political rhetoric. \"Fashionably Late for the Relationship\", his feature-length collaboration with performance artist Lián Amaris, uses the radical time-compression of a 72-hour film of a performance to deconstruct romantic obsession. For his large-scale artwork \"A More Perfect Union\", DuBois joined 21 different online dating sites and constructed a census of the United States based on an analysis of the profiles of 19 million single Americans; shown as a series of colored and relabeled maps, the work investigates the lexicon of American self-identity in the 21st century.\n\nHis work is represented by bitforms gallery in New York City, and has been exhibited worldwide, including at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival and the 2008 Democratic National Convention. In January 2014 \"R. Luke DuBois—Now\" opened at the Ringling Museum of Art. This first solo museum exhibition, organized by curator Matthew McLendon, surveyed DuBois's output over the previous decade, and included performance, video, public installation, and generative works. The exhibition went on to the Orange County Museum of Art the following year and the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in 2016. In December 2016 Hyperallergic named \"R. Luke DuBois—Now\" one of the top 15 exhibitions in the United States.\n\nBefore becoming a well-known Laptop musician, DuBois did most of his improvisation and performance on Buchla and Serge modular synthesizers.\n\nIn 2013 DuBois was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters by Goucher College. He was named the inaugural artist for the Times Square Residency at the CrossRoads Program in 2015 and a speaker for TED 2016.\n\nDuBois is the younger brother of photographer Doug DuBois.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798812", "title": "LattisNet", "text": "LattisNet\n\nLattisNet was a family of computer networking hardware and software products built and sold by SynOptics Communications (also rebranded by Western Digital) during the 1980s. Examples were the 1000, 2500 and 3000 series of LattisHub network hubs.\nLattisNet was the first implementation of 10 Megabits per second local area networking over unshielded twisted pair wiring in a star topology.\n\nDuring the early 1980s most networks used coaxial cable as the primary form of premises cabling in Ethernet implementations. In 1985 SynOptics shipped its first hub for fiber optics and shielded twisted pair. \nSynOptics' co-founder, Engineer Ronald V. Schmidt, had experimented with a fiber-optic variant of Ethernet called Fibernet II while working at Xerox PARC, where Ethernet had been invented.\nIn January 1987 SynOptics announced intentions to manufacture equipment supporting 10 megabits/sec data transfer rates over unshielded twisted pair, telephone wire.\n\nIn August 1987 New York based LAN Systems, Inc. completed the equipment testing and praised SynOptics for successfully deploying a 10Mbit/s network that supported workstations up to 330 feet from the wiring closet, because of their careful control of EMI and RFI.\nNovell reported that the LattisNet equipment performed better than RG-58U coaxial cable.\n\nThis same year HP proposed a study group be formed to look into standardizing Ethernet on telephone wires. SynOptics' investor, Menlo Ventures explained its position on joining the IEEE for standardization.\nIn 1990 the IEEE issued an Ethernet over twisted pair standard known for transmitting 10 Mbit/s, or 10BASE-T (802.3i).\n\nOf the SynOptics hubs, the 2500 series was only compatible with LattisNet twisted-pair Ethernet; the 1000 and 3000 series featured modules for LattisNet and standard 10BASE-T. In the 1000 series, the 505 modules are LattisNet and the 508 modules are 10BASE-T.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798820", "title": "Downtown Julie Brown", "text": "Downtown Julie Brown\n\nJulie Dorne Brown (born 27 August 1963), better known as Downtown Julie Brown, is a Welsh-born actress, television personality, SiriusXM DJ and former MTV VJ. Brown is best known as the host of the television music show \"Club MTV\" which ran from 1987 until 1992.\n\nBrown's father was Jamaican and her mother British. Brown has two brothers and three sisters. Her father was in the Royal Air Force, and she grew up on air force bases all around the world, including Singapore and Cyprus, before returning to the United Kingdom, where they settled in Bridgend, Wales.\n\nAfter winning the UK Disco Dancing Championships, she went on to win the World Disco Dancing Championship in 1979. Soon after, Brown began a career on British television as presenter and guest on a number of children's programmes, including the long-running show \"Crackerjack\". Brown also appeared as a dancer on \"Top of the Pops\" in the early 1980s as a member of the dance troupe Zoo.\n\nBrown became a presenter on the pan-European music channel Music Box and, after moving to the United States, eventually became an MTV VJ and went on to host the \"Club MTV\" show in the late 1980s. That show had a format similar to \"American Bandstand\"'s but featured an exclusive lineup of dance music. From this came her catchphrase, \"Wubba Wubba Wubba\", after she accidentally read the T-shirt of a camera crewmember who was holding the cue cards while on live TV.\n\nMTV capitalized on the confusion between Downtown Julie Brown and comic actress Julie Brown by sending the pair together as correspondents for MTV News as well as by their \"facing\" each other on both their shows (\"Club MTV\" and \"Just Say Julie\").\n\nAfter leaving MTV, Brown went on to work for ESPN conducting on- and off-field interviews with football athletes. Brown then moved to Los Angeles to host the \"E Entertainment\" channel's gossip show. She also became the host of the syndicated radio program \"American Dance Traxx\" in March 1992 until its final broadcast in December 1993.\n\nBrown has appeared in a number of movies and TV shows, including \"Spy Hard\"; \"Spring Break '83\"; \"The Weird Al Show\"; \"B*A*P*S\"; \"Ride\"; \"Walker, Texas Ranger\"; \"Battle Dome\"; \"Hey Arnold!\"; \"I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here!\"; \"The Dog Whisperer\"; \"The Eric Andre Show\"; and \"RuPaul's Drag U\".\n\nMost recently, she appeared in television's \"Wife Swap\" on 21 July 2013. She also appeared on the cover and posed nude for the August 1998 edition of \"Playboy\". Brown is currently a host on the SiriusXM channel '90s on 9. In addition to hosting programmes, she also hosts \"The Back in The Day Replay Countdown,\" on which are played the 30 biggest songs of the week from a particular year in the 1990s.\n\nBrown married film producer and former CEO of Intermedia Martin Schuermann in 2001. They live in Marina del Rey, California, with their daughter.\n"}
{"id": "1798831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798831", "title": "Tim Noah", "text": "Tim Noah\n\nTim Noah (born December 19, 1951) is an American songwriter, singer, and children's entertainer from Seattle. In the mid-late 1990s, Noah received several Northwest Regional Emmy awards for his role in KOMO-TV's children's show, \"How 'Bout That\".\n\nNoah at one time belonged to the group Tickle Tune Typhoon, and wrote the lyrics for some of their songs, including their theme. He later left the group to become a solo artist. In 1985, he released a movie entitled \"In Search of the Wow Wow Wibble Woggle Wazzie Woodle Woo\" (\"WWWWWWW\"), which was released throughout the U.S. The soundtrack to the video was a previous album by the same name. In 1990, Noah wrote and performed in the independent film \"Daredreamer\".\n\nHe has produced several albums, one of which is a Christmas album of five original holiday songs, including \"Wackbangklinkn'klang Town\". Noah attributes his early musical interest to such rock-and-roll artists as Elvis and The Beatles. Noah went on to host the children's show \"How 'bout That\" with producer Ken Morrison, which won four Emmys in 1998 in its first season.\n\nHe now owns the Tim Noah Thumbnail Theater in Snohomish, Washington, which provides performances, music lessons, classes, and open mic nights for children and adults.\n\nTrack List:\n\nThis album is towards young children.\n\nTrack List:\n\nA cowboy/western collection for children with various underlying themes and messages in each song. \"Country Store\" is a story that begins with the repetitive gathering of friends a la Drakestail, and kids should enjoy the repeated lines, as well as the ensuing speed changes as they go up and eventually down a hill. Other songs on the album include environmental messages. \"Keep on Keepin' On\", while promoting the myth that Columbus was trying to prove that the world was round, calls attention to the many ways in which supposed truths were shown to be false. \"Betty Rose\" is a melody about social ostracism.\n\nTrack List:\n\nTrack List:\n\nHoliday themes album. Noah's Christmas performances uses these songs.\n\nTrack List:\n\nTrack List:\n\n\"One Fell Swoop\" was an album recorded in Nashville.\n\nTrack List:\n\nThe children's video version of the \"WWWWWWW\" album has Noah, dressed in adolescent-style clothing, stuck in his room and imagining his way through a hunt for the WWWWWWW. He wonders \"What is a Wow Wow Wibble Woggle Wazzie Woodle Woo?\" Various songs toy around with imagination (\"Zoom,\" \"If I Was,\" \"Little Miracles\"), while others speak of what Tim encounters at school (\"Big Booger\" speaks of the school bully) and his childhood reaction to rules.\n\nEventually, Tim concludes that he just can't find the WWWWWWW; however, he is encouraged to continue and his spirits pick up, but then he encounters \"Musty Moldy Melvin\" and his counterpart Greasy Grimey Gertie, in a song reminiscent of \"Monster Mash.\" The resolution uplifts the concept of friendship and ties the term \"Wow Wow Wibble Woggle Wazzie Woodle Woo\" to either friendship or imagination (he's talking about friendship to the voice that is his imagination), and at last winds up in a tribute to every child's potential.\n\nThis movie was produced on a low-budget. As expressed in the \"making-of\" section of the DVD version of \"WWWWWWW\", the flat, grey backgrounds were meant to emphasize the bold colors of Noah's costumes and the various sets he \"imagines\" as an escape from his dull, everyday life. This movie is the winner of four Emmy Awards, A Bronze Award, Houston International Film Festival.\n\nSongs:\n\n"}
{"id": "1798835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798835", "title": "Tonkawa", "text": "Tonkawa\n\nThe Tonkawa are a Native American tribe indigenous to present-day Texas. They once spoke the now-extinct Tonkawa language, a language isolate. Today, many descendants are enrolled in the federally recognized Tonkawa Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma.\n\nIn the sixteenth century, the Tonkawa tribe probably had around 1,879 members with their numbers diminishing to around 1,600 by the late seventeenth century due to fatalities from new infectious diseases and conflict with other tribes, most notably the Apache. By 1921, only 34 tribal members remained. Their numbers have since recovered to close to 700 in the early twenty-first century. Most live in Oklahoma.\n\nThe Tonkawa's autonym is (meaning \"real people\"). The name Tonkawa is derived from the Waco tribal word, \"\", meaning \"they all stay together\".\n\nThe Tonkawa tribe operates a number of businesses which have an annual economic impact of over $10,860,657 (as of 2011). Along with several smoke shops, the tribe runs 3 different casinos: Tonkawa Indian Casino and Tonkawa Gasino located in Tonkawa, Oklahoma, and the Native Lights Casino in Newkirk, Oklahoma.\n\nThe annual Tonkawa Powwow is held on the last weekend in June to commemorate the end of the tribe's own Trail of Tears when the tribe was forcefully removed and relocated from its traditional lands to present-day Oklahoma.\n\nScholars once thought the Tonkawa originated in Central Texas. Recent research, however, has shown that the tribe inhabited northwestern Oklahoma in 1601. By 1700, the stronger and more aggressive Apache had pushed the Tonkawa south to the Red River which forms the border between current-day Oklahoma and Texas.\n\nIn the 1740s, some Tonkawa were involved with the Yojuanes and others as settlers in the San Gabriel Missions of Texas along the San Gabriel River.\n\nIn 1758, the Tonkawa along with allied Bidais, Caddos, Wichitas, Comanches, and Yojuanes went to attack the Lipan Apache in the vicinity of Mission Santa Cruz de San Sabá, which they destroyed.\nThe tribe continued their southern migration into Texas and northern Mexico, where they allied with the Lipan Apache.\n\nIn 1824, the Tonkawa entered into a treaty with Stephen F. Austin to protect Anglo-American immigrants against the Comanche. At the time, Austin was an agent recruiting immigrants to settle in the Mexican state of Coahuila y Texas. In 1840 at the Battle of Plum Creek and again in 1858 at the Battle of Little Robe Creek, the Tonkawa fought alongside the Texas Rangers against the Comanche.\n\nThe Tonkawas often visited the capital city of Austin during the days of the Republic of Texas and during early statehood.\n\nIn 1859, the United States escorted the Tonkawa and a number of other Texas Indian tribes to a new home at the Wichita Agency in Indian Territory, and placed them under the protection of nearby Fort Cobb. When the American Civil War started, the troops at the fort received orders to march to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, leaving the Indians at the Wichita Agency unprotected.\n\nIn response to years of animosity (in part regarding rumors that the Tonkawas engaged in cannibalism ), a number of pro-Union tribes, including the Delawares, Wichitas, and Penateka Comanches, attacked the Tonkawas as they tried to escape. The fight, known as the Tonkawa Massacre killed nearly half of the remaining Tonkawas, leaving them with little more than 100 people. The tribe returned to Fort Griffin, Texas where they remained for the rest of the Civil War. In October, 1884, the United States removed them, once again, to the new Oakland Agency in northern Indian Territory, where they remain to this day. This journey involved going to Cisco, Texas, where they boarded a railroad train that took them to Stroud in Indian Territory, where they spent the winter at the Sac and Fox Agency. The Tonkawas travelled to the Ponca Agency, and arrived at nearby Fort Oakland on June 30, 1885.\n\nOn October 21, 1891, the tribe signed an agreement with the Cherokee Commission to accept individual allotments of land.\n\nThe Tonkawa Tribe of Oklahoma incorporated in 1938.\n\nThe Tonkawa were made up of various groups, many of which are no longer known by name. These groups are generally counted as Tonkawa:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798838", "title": "Cassin Young", "text": "Cassin Young\n\nCassin Young (March 6, 1894 – November 13, 1942) was a captain in the United States Navy who received the Medal of Honor for his heroism during the attack on Pearl Harbor.\n\nYoung was born in Washington, D.C., on March 6, 1894. He would move to Wisconsin, which his military records state as his official residence. At the age of 2 he moved to Milwaukee where his father operated a drug store. After graduation from the U.S. Naval Academy on June 3, 1916, he served on the battleship into 1919. He attended submarine school in 1919 and then spent several years in submarines. During that period, he served on submarines and . In 1921, he and his family returned from Panama and he assisted in outfitting the USS S-51. In January 1922, he served in Naval Communications on the staff of Commander Submarine Divisions, Battle Fleet, and at the Naval Academy.\n\nDuring 1931 to 1933, Lieutenant Commander Young served on the battleship . He was subsequently awarded command of the destroyer and was assigned to the Eleventh Naval District from 1935 to 1937. After promotion to the rank of Commander, he commanded Submarine Division Seven and was stationed at Naval Submarine Base New London, in Groton, Connecticut.\n\nWhen the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, he was commanding officer of the repair ship , which was badly damaged by Japanese bombs and the explosion of the battleship . Commander Young rapidly organized offensive action, personally taking charge of one of \"Vestal\"s anti-aircraft guns. When \"Arizona\"s forward magazine exploded, the blast blew Young overboard. Although stunned, he was determined to save his ship by getting her away from the blazing \"Arizona\". Swimming through burning oil back to \"Vestal\", which was already damaged and about to be further damaged, Young got her underway and beached her, thus ensuring her later salvage. His heroism was recognized with the Medal of Honor.\n\nPromoted to Captain in February 1942, he took command of the heavy cruiser on November 9, 1942. On November 13, 1942, during the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal, he guided his ship in action with a superior Japanese force and was killed by enemy shells while closely engaging the battleship \"Hiei\". Captain Young was posthumously awarded the Navy Cross for his actions during the campaign and \"San Francisco\" received the Presidential Unit Citation.\n\nYoung's decorations and awards include:\nMedal of Honor citation:\n\nFor distinguished conduct in action, outstanding heroism and utter disregard of his own safety, above and beyond the call of duty, as Commanding Officer of the U.S.S. Vestal, during the attack on the Fleet in Pearl Harbor, Territory of Hawaii, by enemy Japanese forces on December 7, 1941. Commander Young proceeded to the bridge and later took personal command of the 3-inch antiaircraft gun. When blown overboard by the blast of the forward magazine explosion of the U.S.S. Arizona, to which the U.S.S. Vestal was moored, he swam back to his ship. The entire forward part of the U.S.S. Arizona was a blazing inferno with oil afire on the water between the two ships; as a result of several bomb hits, the U.S.S. Vestal was afire in several places, was settling and taking on a list. Despite severe enemy bombing and strafing at the time, and his shocking experience of having been blown overboard, Commander Young, with extreme coolness and calmness, moved his ship to an anchorage distant from the U.S.S. Arizona, and subsequently beached the U.S.S. Vestal upon determining that such action was required to save his ship.\n\nCaptain Young's Medal of Honor is on display at the Naval Academy Museum in Annapolis MD.\n\nIn 1943, the destroyer was named in his honor. This famous destroyer has been restored and is now berthed at the Charlestown Navy Yard in Boston Harbor, across from the USS \"Constitution\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798843", "title": "Invariant polynomial", "text": "Invariant polynomial\n\nIn mathematics, an invariant polynomial is a polynomial formula_1 that is invariant under a group formula_2 acting on a vector space formula_3. Therefore, formula_1 is a formula_2-invariant polynomial if\n\nfor all formula_7 and formula_8.\n\nCases of particular importance are for Γ a finite group (in the theory of Molien series, in particular), a compact group, a Lie group or algebraic group. For a basis-independent definition of 'polynomial' nothing is lost by referring to the symmetric powers of the given linear representation of Γ.\n"}
{"id": "1798846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798846", "title": "Thompson language", "text": "Thompson language\n\nThe Thompson language, properly known as Nlaka'pamuctsin, also known as the Nlaka'pamux ('Nthlakampx') language, is an Interior Salishan language spoken in the Fraser Canyon, Thompson Canyon, Nicola Country of the Canadian province of British Columbia, and also (historically) in the North Cascades region of Whatcom and Chelan counties of the state of Washington in the United States. A dialect distinctive to the Nicola Valley is called Scw'exmx, which is the name of the subgroup of the Nlaka'pamux who live there.\n\nNlaka'pamuctsin is a consonant-heavy language. The consonants can be divided into two subgroups: obstruents, which restrict airflow, and sonorants or resonants, which do not. The sonorants are often syllabic consonants, which can form syllables on their own without vowels.\n\nStress is used with an acute accent; á.\n\nConventional wisdom about Salishan languages has long maintained an absence of lexical categories in that family. Many researchers believe there is a lack of contrast between parts of speech like nouns and verbs in Nlaka'pamuctsin, based on a lack of clear morphological differences. Instead, linguists discuss morphology and syntax in Salishan based on a framework of predicates and particles. However, recent work suggests a changing understanding of Salishan grammar. Now, most Salishanists believe that functional categories are not prescriptive of lexical categories, and that morphological evidence does not prove that the latter categories do not exist, only that the distinction is more subtle in some languages than in others.\n\nOne morphological feature of Nlaka'pamuctsin is lexical suffixes. These are words that add nuance to predicates and can be affixed to the ends of root words to add their general meaning to that word. Thompson and Thompson assert that as a result of English language influence, speakers are using these more complex predicates less and less in favor of simpler predicates with complements and adjuncts, resulting in “a general decline in the exploitation of the rich synthetic resources of the language.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798852", "title": "Bundesautobahn 8", "text": "Bundesautobahn 8\n\nThe A 8 is a significant East-West transit route. Its construction began in March 1934 during Nazi rule as a \"Reichsautobahn\", the section between Karlsruhe and Salzburg having been completed by the time road works were discontinued in World War II. Although most parts have been modernized and extended since, significant sections remain in their original configuration from the 1930s - 2+2 lanes, no emergency lanes, steep hills and tight curves. In combination with today's traffic this makes the A 8 one of the most crowded and dangerous autobahns in Germany. Especially in the wintertime the slopes of the Black Forest, the Swabian Alb near Aichelberg, as well as the Irschenberg become bottlenecks when heavy trucks crawl uphill.\n\nModern sections with 3+3 lanes and more are e.g. (2016): Karlsruhe - Pforzheim-North, Pforzheim-South - Stuttgart - Mühlhausen, AK Ulm/Elchingen - Augsburg - Munich-Eschenried, and AK Munich-South - AD Inntal. Other sections in Saarland, Rhineland-Palatinate and Munich have 2+2 in modern standard.\n\nPlans for the section between Pirmasens and Karlsruhe were abandoned in the 1980s. Instead of this section B10 Pirmasens - Landau was expanded. Landau - Karlsruhe was built as a part of A65 in the 90s.\nIn Munich there is also a gap: section from Augsburg ends in Munich-Obermenzing, section from Salzburg ends in Munich-Haidhausen. Transit traffic has to use A99 north around Munich or A99 west, \"Mittlerer Ring\" and A 995 (shorter but not complete autobahn)\n\nNear Merzig was a section with only one lane for each direction, but it is under construction and will be extended to 2+2.\n\nNear Heusweiler a wire netting was built as a faraday cage to protect vehicle electronics from radiation of Heusweiler radio transmitter. The transmitter has been deactivated but has yet to be removed - together with the wire netting.\n\nPirmasens-Winzeln is one of only four \"left slip roads\" in German autobahn network: coming from Zweibrücken, left lane is exit to Winzeln and right lane stays A 8; access from Winzeln leads to left lane. Towards Zweibrücken exit and access are as usual. A 8 and A 62 should meet here in an interchange. After A 8 section Pirmasens -Karlsruhe had been cancelled the \"interchange\" was later used for Winzeln slip road.\n\nIn Gruibingen (section Stuttgart - Ulm) motorway service Gruibingen was built according to feng shui philosophy.\n\nAt Drakensteiner Hang between Mühlhausen and Hohenstadt (section Stuttgart - Ulm) A 8 is divided into separate northbound and southbound routes on either side of the peak.\n\nNear Adelsried (section Ulm - Munich) is Autobahnkirche (\"motorway church\") Maria, Schutz der Reisenden (\"Mary, patron saint of travellers\"). It was built 1956 as first of meanwhile 42 in Germany.\n\nFor extension of section Ulm/Elchingen - Augsburg - Munich a new kind of financial funding was used, an operator model: consortiums of constructing companies funded their work for themselves and in return were remitted lorry road charges for 30 years. They are also responsible for maintenance during this period.\n\nFor transit traffic around Munich road marks signalize to use orbital motorway A99 north/east at Eschenried and Munich-South interchanges. But those who are familiar with place often use A 99 west - Mittlerer Ring - A 995 as a shorter and faster route. However this route leads through Munich and therefore authorities want to keep transit traffic out of town.\n\nAustria demands toll for its autobahns, so many drivers who do not want to pay for the short section border - Salzburg use slip roads Bad Reichenhall or Schwarzbach and country roads which sometimes causes traffic jams.\n"}
{"id": "1798853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798853", "title": "Divergence-from-randomness model", "text": "Divergence-from-randomness model\n\nIn the field of information retrieval, divergence from randomness, one of the very first models, is one type of probabilistic model. It is basically used to test the amount of information carried in the documents. It is based on Harter's 2-Poisson indexing-model. The 2-Poisson model has a hypothesis that the level of the documents is related to a set of documents which contains words occur relatively greater than the rest of the documents. It is not a 'model', but a framework for weighting terms using probabilistic methods, and it has a special relationship for term weighting based on notion of eliteness.\n\nTerm weights are being treated as the standard of whether a specific word is in that set or not. Term weights are computed by measuring the divergence between a term distribution produced by a random process and the actual term distribution.\n\nDivergence from randomness models set up by instantiating the three main components of the framework: first selecting a basic randomness model, then applying the first normalization and at last normalizing the term frequencies.\nThe basic models are from the following tables.\n\nThe divergence from randomness is based on this idea: \"The more the divergence of the within-document term-frequency from its frequency within the collection, the more the information carried by the word t in document d. In other words, the term-weight is inversely related to the probability of term-frequency within the document d obtained by a model M of randomness.\"(By terrier.org)\n\nformula_1 (Formula 1)\n\nIt is possible that we use different urn models to choose the appropriate model M of randomness. In Information Retrieval, we have documents instead of urns, and terms instead of colors. There are several ways to choose M, each of these has a basic divergence from randomness model to support it.\n\n D Divergence approximation of the binomial\n\n BB2 Bernoulli-Einstein model with Bernoulli after-effect and normalization 2.\n\nWhen a specific rare term cannot be found in a document, then in that document the term has approximately zero probability of being informative. On the other hand, if a rare term occurs frequently in a document, therefore it can have a very high, near 100% probability to be informative for the topic that mentioned by the document. Applying to Ponte and Croft's language model can also be a good idea. Notice that a risk component is considered in the DFR. Logically speaking, if the term-frequency in the document is relatively high, then inversely the risk for the term of not being informative is relatively small. Say we have a Formula 1 giving a high value, then a minimal risk has the negative effect of showing small information gain. So we choose to organize the weight of Formula 1 to only consider the portion of which is the amount of information gained with the term. \nThe more the term occurs in the elite set, the less term-frequency is due to randomness, and thus the smaller the associated risk is. We basically apply two models to compute the information gain with a term within a document: \n\nBefore using the within-document frequency tf of a term, the document-length dl is normalized to a standard length sl. Therefore, the term-frequencies tf are recalculated with the respect to the standard document-length, that is:\ntfn represents the normalized term frequency. Another version of the normalization formula is the following:\nNormalization 2 is usually considered to be more flexible, since there is no fixed value for c.\n\nUtility-Theoretic Indexing developed by Cooper and Maron is a theory of indexing based on utility theory. To reflect the value for documents that is expected by the users, index terms are assigned to documents. \nAlso, Utility-Theoretic Indexing is related an \"event space\" in the statistical word.\nThere are several basic spaces Ω in the Information Retrieval. A really simple basic space Ω can be the set V of terms t, which is called the vocabulary of the document collection. Due to Ω=V is the set of all mutually exclusive events, Ω can also be the certain event with probability:\nThus P, the probability distribution, assigns probabilities to all sets of terms for the vocabulary.\nNotice that the basic problem of Information Retrieval is to find an estimate for P(t). Estimates are computed on the basis of sampling and the experimental text collection furnishes the samples needed for the estimation. Now we run into the main concern which is how do we treat two arbitrary but heterogeneous pieces of texts appropriately. Paragons like a chapter in a Science Magazine and an article from a sports newspaper as the other. They can be considered as two different samples since those aiming at different population.\n\nThe relationship of the document with the experiments is made by the way in which the sample space is chosen. In IR, term experiment, or trial, is used here with a technical meaning rather than a common sense. For example, a document could be an experiment which means the document is a sequence of outcomes t∈V, or just a sample of a population. We will talk about the event of observing a number Xt =tf of occurrences of a given word t in a sequence of experiments. In order to introduce this event space, we should introduce the product of the probability spaces associated with the experiments of the sequence. We could introduce our sample space to associate a point with possible configurations of the outcomes. The one-to-one correspondence for sample space can be defined as:\nWhere ld is the number of trials of the experiment or in this example, the length of a document. We can assume that each outcome may or may not depend on the outcomes of the previous experiments. If the experiments are designed so that an outcome is influencing the next outcomes, then the probability distribution on V is different at each trial. But, more commonly, in order to establish the simpler case when the probability space is invariant in IR, the term independence assumption is often made. Therefore, all possible configurations ofΩ=Vld are considered equiprobable. Considering this assumption, we can consider each document a Bernoulli process. The probability spaces of the product are invariant and the probability of a given sequence is the product of the probabilities at each trial. Consequently, if p=P(t) is the prior probability that the outcome is t and the number of experiments is ld we obtain the probability of Xt=tf is equal to: \nWhich is the sum of the probability of all possible configurations having tf outcomes out of ld. P(Xt=tf|p) is a probability distribution because\n\nAlready considering the hypothesis of having a single sample, we need to consider that we have several samples, for example, a collection D of documents. The situation of having a collection of N documents is abstractly equivalent to the scheme of placing a certain number Tot of V colored types of balls in a collection of N cells.\nFor each term t∈V a possible configuration of ball placement satisfies the equations:\nAnd the condition \nWhere Ft is the number of balls of the same color t to be distributed in the N cells.\nWe have thus changed the basic space. The outcome of our experiment will be the documents d in which the ball will be placed. Also, we will have a lot of possible configurations consistent with the number of colored balls.\n\nThe divergence from Randomness Model is based on the Bernoulli model and its limiting forms, the hypergeometric distribution, Bose-Einstein statistics and its limiting forms, the compound of the binomial distribution with the beta distribution, and the fat-tailed distribution. Divergence from randomness model shows a unifying framework that has the potential constructing a lot of different effective models of IR.\n\n\nProximity can be handled within divergence from randomness to consider the number of occurrences of a pair of query terms within a window of pre-defined size. To specify, the DFR Dependence Score Modifier DSM implements both the pBiL and pBiL2 models, which calculate the randomness divided by the document's length, rather than the statistics of the pair in the corpus the pair in the corpus.\n\nLet t be a term and c be a collection. Let the term occur in tfc=nL(t,c)=200 locations, and in df(t,c)=nL(t,c)=100 documents. The expected average term frequency is avgtf(t,c)=200/100=2; this is the average over the documents in which the term occurs.\nLet N.D(c)=1000 be the total amounts of documents. The term's occurrence is 10% in the documents: P.D(t|c)=100/1000. The expected average term frequency is 200/1000=1/5, and this is the average over all documents. The term frequency is shown as Kt =0...,6.\n\nThe following table show the column nD is the number of Documents that contains kt occurrence of t, shown as nD(t,c,kt). Another column nL is the number of Locations at which the term occurs follows by this equation: nL=kt*nD. The columns to the right show the observed and Poisson probabilities.\nP obs,elite(Kt) is the observed probability over all documents. P poisson,all,lambda(Kt) is the Poisson probability, where lambda(t,c)=nL(t,c)/N D(c)=0.20 is the Poisson parameter. The table illustrates how the observed probability is different from the Poisson probability. P poisson(1) is greater than P obs(1), whereas for kt>1.the observed probabilities are greater than the Poisson probabilities. There is more mass in the tail of the observed distribution than the Poisson distribution assumes.\nMoreover, the columns to the right illustrate the usage of the elite documents instead of all documents. Here, the single event probability is based on the locations of elite documents only.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798862", "title": "Titus Vestricius Spurinna", "text": "Titus Vestricius Spurinna\n\nTitus Vestricius Spurinna (ca. 24–after 105 AD) was a Roman senator, consul, and a friend and role model of Pliny the Younger. He was consul at least twice, the first time possibly in 72, and the second in the year 98 as the colleague of the emperor Trajan. Spurinna is one of the correspondents in Pliny's \"Letters\", and had literary interests of his own, including writing lyric poetry. Pliny says dinner parties at his home were often enlivened by scenes from Roman comedy.\n\nPliny admired Vestricius Spurinna for his active but orderly life as a septuagenarian. He enjoyed conversation, reading and writing, exercise, and bathing. His diet was simple but good, and he enjoyed the full use of his faculties, remaining both physically and mentally vigorous.\n\n\"The origins of Vestricius Spurinna is nowhere documented,\" writes Ronald Syme, then a few lines later states he was \"presumably a Transpadane\". Syme also notes that Spurinna's \"gentilicum\" and \"cognomen\" both are Etruscan, then states the \"gentilicum\", Vestricius, appears only one other time in the entire Italian peninsula, an inscription at Florentia.\n\nSpurinna first appears in history during the Year of Four Emperors, when Appius Annius Gallus, one of Otho's generals, put him in command of a detachment of some 3,000 men, to garrison Placentia, while Gallus occupied Verona. Spurinna commanded an unruly force, far too eager to engage their counterparts on the Vitellian side. When he tried to keep this force inside the city, the troops threatened to mutiny; as a wily move, Spurinna agreed to their demands. The next day the soldiers marched forth; when nightfall came, they were surprised to find they must construct a camp. According to standard Roman practice, this would include digging a trench and erecting a wall around the encampment. When the soldiers started having second thoughts, their officers seized the opportunity to praise \"Spurinna's foresight in selecting Placentia as a strongpoint.\" The men acquiesced and marched back to Placentia where they enthusiastically set to work on improving the city's fortifications.\n\nSpurinna's role in the following the First Battle of Bedriacum is not recorded; Syme notes Tacitus allows him \"to fade out, perhaps mercifully: there is no sign of his whereabouts during the battle or the surrender.\" It is possible that Tacitus learned of Spurinna's handling of his unruly troops from Spurinna himself; Syme suggests as much, then in a footnote admits, \"Not, however, that Tacitus' account need derive anywhere directly from Spurinna, although the old fellow was still alive c. 105\"\n\nHe is said to have \"held no office under Domitian after it became dishonorable to do so,\" but under Nerva, Spurinna was governor of Germania Inferior in 97, at the age of 73. He was awarded a triumphal statue for his military service.\n\nThe wife of Vestricius Spurinna was Cottia, who was probably considerably younger. They had at least one son, who died around 97 or 98 AD before he had begun a political career, which typically began at the age of thirty. Pliny refers to the son as Cottius, from his mother's \"nomen\", an example of how in the Imperial era sons might preserve their mother's name as well as their father's.\n"}
{"id": "1798870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798870", "title": "Tonkawa language", "text": "Tonkawa language\n\nThe Tonkawa language was spoken in Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico by the Tonkawa people. A language isolate, with no known related languages, \"Tonkawa\" is now extinct. Members of the Tonkawa tribe now speak English.\n\nTonkawa has 10 vowels:\n\n\nTonkawa has 15 consonants:\n\n\nThere are two environments in which consonant clusters occur in Tonkawa:\n\nRepeated or identical consonants are treated as one unit. However, the condition that causes this repetition has not been fully analyzed.\n\"There are cases where the glottal stop is not used in the cluster or combination\"\n\nThere are certain consonants that can either begin or end in a cluster. However, if the cluster begins the syllable, there can be no intervening vowel.\n\nInitial stem syllables that begin with h-\n\nFinal stem syllables\n\nAn interesting feature of Tonkawan phonology is that the vowels in even-numbered syllables are reduced. That is, long vowels are shortened, while short vowels disappear. Analyses of this were given by Kisseberth (1970), Phelps (1973, 1975) and Noske (1993).\n\nThe Tonkawa language is a syllabic language that bases its word and sentence prosody on even stressed syllables.\n\nThere are five types of syllable arrangements: (CL consonant, CC: consonant cluster, V: vowel)\n\nThe morphemes in Tonkawa can be divided as follows:\n\nI. Themes\nIn Tonkawa the theme is composed of morphologic units. The basic unit is the stem. The stem is composed of two elements (the consonant and vowel) and modified by affixes. The theme, or stem, is functional, which means it changes as more affixation is added. This leads to the fusion of the stem and affix where it becomes difficult to isolate the word into its smaller units.\n\nII. Affixes\n\nIII. Enclitics\n\nIn English, pronouns, nouns, verbs, etc., are individual words; Tonkawa forms the parts of speech differently, and the most important grammatical function is affixation. This process shows the subjects, objects, and pronouns of words and/or verbs. Within affixations, the suffix has more importance than the prefix.\n\nThe differentiation between subject and object is shown in the suffix. While the word order tends to be subject-object-verb (SOV), compounding words is very common in Tonkawa. Reduplication is very common in Tonkawa and affects only the verb themes. Usually, only one syllable undergoes reduplication, and it notes a repeated action, vigorous action, or a plural subject.\n\nNouns function as free themes, or stems, in Tonkawa. There is a limit of only two or three affixes that can compound with a noun. However, there are cases of a bound theme occurring in noun compounds, which occurs with the suffix -an is added. In English, pronouns and nouns are usually grouped together, but because pronouns in Tonkawa are bound themes, they will be discussed with the verb section.\n\nNoun suffixes\n\nVerbs are bound morphemes that have a limit of only two themes, the second theme being the modifying theme and usually serving as an adverbial theme. However, if the suffix -/-wa is added the verb functions as a free theme.\n\nPronouns\n\nPronouns are not used except for emphasis on the subject and are affixated as prefixes. Person and number are usually indicated by the affixation of the verb. Most pronouns are bound themes, especially the demonstrative pronouns.\n\nDemonstrative pronouns\n\nDemonstrative adverbs can be formed by adding -ca 'place', -l 'direction', -c 'manner' to the demonstrative pronouns below.\nExample: 'that one aforementioned' + ca 'place = ' 'that place aforementioned'\n\nInterrogative pronouns can be formed by adding the prefix he- to the demonstrative pronouns as well by using the same format for the demonstrative adverbs.\nExample: he 'interrogative' + 'this' + l 'direction' = 'where'\n\nIndefinite pronouns can also be formed with affixation. (Interrogative + )\nExample: 'what' + = 'anything, something, anyone, someone'\n\nAlso within the verbal-prefix category are the causatives and , where is the older form.\n\nVerb suffixes\n\nVerb suffixes are important in Tonkawa because they usually indicate the tense, negativity, and manner (outside of what is conveyed in the aforementioned prefixes) of the action performed.\n\nEnclitics are bound morphemes that are suffixed to verbs, nouns, and demonstratives that end with -k. Enclitics often express modal concepts in Tonkawa, which occur in the declarative, interrogative, and quotative/narrative clauses or statements.\n\nThe orthography used on the Tonkawa Tribe's website is similar to Americanist phonetic notation.\n\nLong vowels are indicated with a following middle dot . The affricate is written . The glottal stop is written as either an apostrophe or as a superscript question mark . The palatal glide is written .\n\nThe phonemic orthography used in Hoijer's \"Tonkawa Texts\" is a later version of Americanist transcription. It uses a colon for long vowels and the traditional glottal stop symbol .\nExamples are \"mummun\" 'salt' and \"mummunchicew\" 'pepper'.\n\nThe following text is the first four sentences of \"Coyote and Jackrabbit\", from Hoijer's \"Tonkawa Texts\".\n\nGloss:\n\nIn this gloss, \"S\" is an abbreviation for \"it is said\", and \"afm\" for \"the aforementioned\".\nEnglish Tonkawa \n\nOne We:'ispax\n\nTwo Ketay\n\nThree Metis\n\nFour Sikit\n\nFive Kaskwa\n\nMan Ha:'ako:n\n\nWoman Kwa:nla\n\nDog 'Ekwan\n\nSun Taxas\n\nWater A:x\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798873", "title": "Retaruke River", "text": "Retaruke River\n\nThe Retaruke River is a river in the North Island of New Zealand. It joins with the Whanganui River just above Wade's Landing and downstream from Taumarunui. The river flows through the farming communities of Upper and then Lower Retaruke Valley. Downstream from this junction is the Mangapurua Landing with its Bridge to Nowhere, servicing the ill-fated Mangapurua Valley farming community.\n\nWhakahoro () is a small (now mostly empty) settlement located on the junction of the Retaruke and Whanganui rivers. It had several streets, notable \"Lover's Lane\", and \"Dempsey Ave\". Here still stands the old Whakahoro School (Image) building. This has been converted into a stop over hostel for down river canoeists. Here the current Lacy's Bridge crosses the Retaruke River. (Built in 1932, to replace an earlier bridge built in 1915–16.)\n\nHistorically, Whakahoro's Wade's Landing was a stopover point for the riverboats steaming up and down the Whanganui River. This landing was located just below at the confluence with the Retaruke River. It was here that wool from the Retaruke valley's sheep farms was originally freighted to Wanganui for eventual export.\n\nJust above the confluence still stands Lacy's hotel, which is now a farm house. It had its own separate landing, tennis courts, and on occasion (in the 1920s) locals would meet (come out of the bush) for a friendly game of Rugby union in their hobnail boots.\n\nOver the Whanganui River was the site of a Māori community, the land was subsequently leased to the Rusling family for sheep farming, but now has reverted to regrowth. (The \"Roadway\" and \"Camp Road\" from here to the Republic of Whangamomona are nolonger maintained by the New Zealand Government.)\n\nAt one point there was a river boat (Image) semi-permanently anchored at the junction. This river boat served alcohol beverages. As the King Country was a dry area, such beverages were actually banned; the boat was considered \"offshore\" from the King Country.\n\nWade's Landing has made itself into various modern hand-held GPS databases, probably due to its historical nautical significance. Today a jetboat can be chartered locally to take passengers up river to Taumarunui or down river to Pipiriki and Jerusalem.\n\nPortions of the Lower Retaruke Valley were settled about 1900 by government run farm ballot. Other portions were independently purchased from the Māori community. The land was then cleared, grassed, and sheep flocks herded in from Raurimu to stock the hills.\n\nThe valley previously had a tiny Mangaroa Primary School(). At a location further up there still remain the community hall and sports field, here there are annual children's Christmas parties, occasional Dances/Social and the annual Retaruke Easter Sports Day are run.\n\nAccess to the Valley is via three main roads: \"Oio Road\", \"Kawautahi Road\" or the \"Raurimu-Kaitieke Road\" from Raurimu. However, on foot the valley can be accessed via the old Mangapurua Road, or by jetboat or via the Whanganui River. (Other access routes such as the \"Kokako Road\" & \"Kuotoroa East Road\" (to Ruatiti), \"Te Mata Road\" from Whakahoro to Taumarunui have long since been abandoned. Some of these roads were examples of pack horse tracks that were expanded to roads during the Great Depression 1930s as job creation schemes.)\n\nHistorically the wealth of the valley has come from the production of wool. Early on there were also some small dairy farms producing cream/\"butterfat\" for the Kaitieke dairy factory that was located in Piriaka near Taumarunui.\n\nThe Retaruke valley is contained within the original Kaitieke County.\n\nThis county was created by the Kaitieke County Act 1910.\n\nThe Kaitieke Council Chambers were located at Raurimu near the old Raurimu District High School.\n\nThe Kaitieke County stock yards are located at the junction of the Upper and Lower Retaruke Roads . There stands the World War I memorial, a set of stock yards for auctioning of sheep stock, and a defunct manual telephone exchange. Previously in near proximity of the stock yards there was a postal depot, a general store and then an automatic telephone exchange.\n\nThen 1 kilometre up the Upper Retaruke Valley road is the location of the annual Kaitieke Collie club sheepdog trials. Next is the location of a \"Victory Hall\". Further up the valley there was a coal mine; it was near this mine that fossil whalebones were reputed to have been found.\n"}
{"id": "1798883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798883", "title": "Bundesautobahn 94", "text": "Bundesautobahn 94\n\nThe route between Forstinning and Heldenstein was the subject of a decades-long debate.\n\nIn the original plans for the A 94, the section between Simbach and Passau was not planned. Instead, the A 94 was supposed to cross the Inn to the Austrian border, at which point it would continue through the Innviertel to Ried im Innkreis and connect to the Austrian A 8 towards Vienna. This path would have decreased travel time from Munich to Vienna compared to the route via Salzburg. Provisions for such a routing were built in Simbach and in Ried. However, since Austria didn't want to burden the Innviertel with traffic, the plan was given up on the Austrian side. After this, on the German side, the plans were changed so that the A 94 connected with the A 3 at Pocking/Neuhaus am Inn. This makes an eventual northern extension to the Czech border possible.\n\nAt one point, a route from Mühldorf to Pfarrkirchen to Pocking was planned. Under this plan, today's A 94 section from Mühldorf to Simbach would have been given the designation A 942.\n\n (Austria)\n\n"}
{"id": "1798889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798889", "title": "Yamaha Genesis engine", "text": "Yamaha Genesis engine\n\n\"Genesis\" is Yamaha's marketing name for a range of innovative high performance multi-valve motorcycle engines. The flexible design of the engine allowed Yamaha to use it on a variety of configurations, from sport bikes to outboard engines.\n\nThe DOHC Genesis engine has five valves per cylinder and downdraft carburetors. Yamaha adopted the 5-valve concept, using three intake valves and two exhaust valves per cylinder, because it allowed both excellent volumetric efficiency and high rpm. As designers began to appreciate the benefits of multi-valve layout, 4-valves-per-cylinder (and even 3-valves) became common. In a multivalve engine, maximum rpm is limited by the size of the largest valves: in a 3-valver, the exhaust valve is larger, and in a 4-valver, the inlet valves are larger. The significance of the five-valve engine compared to other multivalve configurations engines is that (like a 3-valver) there were more intake valves than exhaust ones; yet all valves were small and of very similar sizes and weights.\n\nDowndraft carburetors were adopted for improved gas flow, but, for motorcycles, a disadvantage was that the intake airbox was above the engine, taking up space from the fuel tank, rather than being sited conventionally behind the engine.\n\nThe Genesis engine first appeared on the 1984 Yamaha FZ750 and was later used on a variety of motorcycles for different kinds of markets. The design was used for parallel-twins (such as the TDM and the TRX) as well as for four-cylinder models. Both fours and twins had the cylinder block slanted forwards 45 degrees. The Genesis engine was also used in the Yamaha YZF-R1, FZX700, FZ750, and the USA-only FZ700. \n\nOther applications ranged from the Supersport YZF-R6 and YZF-R1 models using electronic fuel injection with YCCT and YCCI to the less extreme but still powerful Yamaha FZ6 (4 valve per cylinder) and FZ1 Fazer line which had a simpler fuel injection designs but was essentially the same basic engine design. The most significant changes made were the 4-valve per cylinder configuration and the crossplane crankshaft found on the YZF-R1 2009, along with the change of cylinder sleeves to steel for high precision and high temperature durability. Throughout its long period of production, the Genesis range has successfully provided performance and reliability.\n\nBecause of its high performance capacity (usually from 100 BHP 350 BHP), the engine has also been employed in various other uses such as gyroplanes and high power marine engines, making it an affordable solution for a high performance applications. The engine is also used in a racecar championship in Norway called SevenRacing. It is a copy of Lotus Super Seven, and is produced by MK and Stuart Taylor.\n"}
{"id": "1798893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798893", "title": "Frøslev Prison Camp", "text": "Frøslev Prison Camp\n\nFrøslev Camp (, ) was an internment camp in German-occupied Denmark during World War II.\n\nIn order to avoid deportation of Danes to German concentration camps, Danish authorities suggested, in January 1944, that an internment camp be created in Denmark. The German occupation authorities consented, and the camp was erected near the village of Frøslev in the south-west of Denmark, close to the German border. From mid-August until the end of the German occupation in May 1945, 12,000 prisoners passed through the camp's gates. Most of them were suspected members of the Danish resistance movement, Communists and other political prisoners. Living conditions in the camp were generally tolerable, but 1,600 internees were deported to German concentration camps, where 220 of them died (approximate numbers).\n\nTowards the end of the war, the Swedish count Folke Bernadotte tried to get all Scandinavian concentration camp prisoners to Sweden. Simultaneously the Danish administration negotiated with the Germans about rescue of the Danish prisoners in Germany. As a result of these efforts many Scandinavian prisoners came with the White Buses from the German camps. In March and April 1945, 10,000 Danish and Norwegian captives were brought home from Germany. Some of the returning prisoners came to Frøslev Prison Camp. Among those were some of the 1,960 deported Danish policemen, which had been arrested and deported on 19 September 1944.\n\nWhen the German occupation ended, the prisoners were released, only to be immediately replaced with suspected Nazi collaborators, and the camp's name was changed to Fårhus Camp (\"Fårhuslejren\"). The internment camp was now run by the Danish resistance movement, and among those interned was Frits Clausen, former leader of the Danish Nazi party. Later on, the Danish state took over from the resistance movement, using the camp as the country's largest correctional facility for convicted collaborators.\nBy 1949 most collaborators had served their sentences, and the camp was converted to army barracks under the name of Padborg Camp (\"Padborglejren\"). The Frøslev Prison Camp Museum (\"Frøslevlejrens Museum\") was inaugurated in 1969. According to a 2001 agreement, the camp will be preserved as a national memorial park. Some parts of the original 1944–45 prison camp, which had been demolished, have now been reconstructed, including a watchtower and a portion of the barbed-wire fence. The area also house a residential continuation high school named Frøslevlejrens Efterskole.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798912", "title": "A Call for Unity", "text": "A Call for Unity\n\n\"A Call for Unity\" was an open letter published in Birmingham, Alabama, on April 12, 1963, by eight local white clergymen in response to civil rights demonstrations taking place in the area at the time. In the letter, they took issue with events \"directed and led in part by outsiders\", urging activists to engage in local negotiations and use the courts if rights were being denied rather than to protest.\n\nThe term \"outsider\" was a thinly veiled reference to Martin Luther King, Jr., and King replied with his famous \"Letter from Birmingham Jail\", arguing that civil action was in fact necessary.\n\nThe authors of \"A Call for Unity\" had written \"An Appeal for Law and Order and Common Sense\" in January of the same year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798923", "title": "T-structure", "text": "T-structure\n\nIn the branch of mathematics called homological algebra, a \"t\"-structure is a way to axiomatize the properties of an abelian subcategory of a derived category. A \"t\"-structure on formula_1 consists of two subcategories formula_2 of a triangulated category or stable infinity category which abstract the idea of complexes whose cohomology vanishes in positive, respectively negative, degrees. There can be many distinct \"t\"-structures on the same category, and the interplay between these structures has implications for algebra and geometry. The notion of a \"t\"-structure arose in the work of Beilinson, Bernstein, Deligne, and Gabber on perverse sheaves.\n\nFix a triangulated category formula_1 with translation functor formula_4. A \"t\"-structure on formula_1 is a pair formula_2 of full subcategories, each of which is stable under isomorphism, which satisfy the following three axioms.\nIt can be shown that the subcategories formula_7 and formula_8 are closed under extensions in formula_1. In particular, they are stable under finite direct sums.\n\nSuppose that formula_2 is a \"t\"-structure on formula_1. In this case, for any integer \"n\", we define formula_23 to be the full subcategory of formula_1 whose objects have the form formula_25, where formula_26 is an object of formula_7. Similarly, formula_28 is the full subcategory of objects formula_29, where formula_30 is an object of formula_8. More briefly, we define\nWith this notation, the axioms above may be rewritten as:\n\nThe heart or core of the \"t\"-structure is the full subcategory formula_42 consisting of objects in both formula_7 and formula_8, that is,\nThe heart of a \"t\"-structure is an abelian category (whereas a triangulated category is additive but almost never abelian), and it is stable under extensions.\n\nA triangulated category with a choice of \"t\"-structure is sometimes called a \"t\"-category.\n\nIt is clear that, to define a \"t\"-structure, it suffices to fix integers \"m\" and \"n\" and specify formula_46 and formula_28. Some authors define a \"t\"-structure to be the pair formula_48.\n\nThe two subcategories formula_7 and formula_34 determine each other. An object \"X\" is in formula_7 if and only if formula_52 for all objects \"Y\" in formula_34, and vice versa. That is, formula_48 are left and right orthogonal complements of each other. Consequently, it is enough to specify only one of formula_7 and formula_34. Moreover, because these subcategories are full by definition, it is enough to specify their objects.\n\nThe above notation is adapted to the study of cohomology. When the goal is to study homology, slightly different notation is used. A homological \"t\"-structure on formula_1 is a pair formula_58 such that, if we define\nthen formula_2 is a (cohomological) \"t\"-structure on formula_1. That is, the definition is the same except that upper indices are converted to lower indices and the roles of formula_62 and formula_63 are swapped. If we define\nthen the axioms for a homological \"t\"-structure may be written explicitly as\n\nThe most fundamental example of a \"t\"-structure is the natural \"t\"-structure on a derived category. Let formula_74 be an abelian category, and let formula_75 be its derived category. Then the natural \"t\"-structure is defined by the pair of subcategories\nIt follows immediately that\nIn this case, the third axiom for a \"t\"-structure, the existence of a certain distinguished triangle, can be made explicit as follows. Suppose that formula_78 is a cochain complex with values in formula_74. Define\nIt is clear that formula_81 and that there is a short exact sequence of complexes\nThis exact sequence furnishes the required distinguished triangle.\n\nThis example can be generalized to exact categories (in the sense of Quillen). There are also similar \"t\"-structures for the bounded, bounded above, and bounded below derived categories. If formula_83 is an abelian subcategory of formula_74, then the full subcategory formula_85 of formula_75 consisting of those complexes whose cohomology is in formula_83 has a similar \"t\"-structure whose heart is formula_83.\n\nThe category of \"perverse sheaves\" is, by definition, the core of the so-called \"perverse t-structure\" on the derived category of the category of sheaves on a complex analytic space \"X\" or (working with l-adic sheaves) an algebraic variety over a finite field. As was explained above, the heart of the standard t-structure simply contains ordinary sheaves, regarded as complexes concentrated in degree 0. For example, the category of perverse sheaves on a (possibly singular) algebraic curve \"X\" (or analogously a possibly singular surface) is designed so that it contains, in particular, objects of the form\nwhere formula_90 is the inclusion of a point, formula_91 is an ordinary sheaf, formula_92 is a smooth open subscheme and formula_93 is a locally constant sheaf on \"U\". Note the presence of the shift according to the dimension of \"Z\" and \"U\" respectively. This shift causes the category of perverse sheaves to be well-behaved on singular spaces. The simple objects in this category are the intersection cohomology sheaves of subvarieties with coefficients in an irreducible local system.\nThis t-structure was introduced by Beilinson, Bernstein and Deligne. It was shown by Beilinson that the derived category of the heart formula_94 is in fact equivalent to the original derived category of sheaves. This is an example of the general fact that a triangulated category may be endowed with several distinct t-structures.\n\nA non-standard example of a t-structure on the derived category of (graded) modules over a graded ring has the property that its heart consists of complexes\nwhere formula_96 is a module generated by its (graded) degree \"n\". This t-structure called geometric t-structure plays a prominent role in Koszul duality.\n\nThe category of spectra is endowed with a t-structure generated, in the sense above, by a single object, namely the sphere spectrum. The category formula_97 is the category of connective spectra, i.e., those whose negative homotopy groups vanish. (In areas related to homotopy theory, it is common to use homological conventions, as opposed to cohomological ones, so in this case it is common to replace \"formula_63\" by \"formula_62\". Using this convention, the category of connective spectra the notation is denoted formula_100.)\n\nA conjectural example in the theory of motives is the so-called \"motivic t-structure\". Its (conjectural) existence is closely related to certain standard conjectures on algebraic cycles and vanishing conjectures, such as the Beilinson-Soulé conjecture.\n\nIn the above example of the natural \"t\"-structure on an abelian category, the distinguished triangle guaranteed by the third axiom was constructed by truncation. As operations on the category of complexes, the truncations formula_101 and formula_102 are functorial, and the resulting short exact sequence of complexes is natural in formula_78. Using this, it can be shown that there are truncation functors on the derived category and that they induce a natural distinguished triangle.\n\nIn fact, this is an example of a general phenomenon. While the axioms for a \"t\"-structure do not assume the existence of truncation functors, such functors can always be constructed and are essentially unique. Suppose that formula_1 is a triangulated category and that formula_2 is a \"t\"-structure. The precise statement is that the inclusion functors\nadmit adjoints. These are functors\nsuch that\nMoreover, for any object formula_109 of formula_1, there exists a unique\nsuch that \"d\" and the counit and unit of the adjunctions together define a distinguished triangle\nUp to unique isomorphism, this is the unique distinguished triangle of the form formula_39 with formula_26 and formula_30 objects of formula_7 and formula_34, respectively. It follows from the existence of this triangle that an object formula_109 lies in formula_23 (resp. formula_28) if and only if formula_121 (resp. formula_122).\n\nThe existence of formula_123 implies the existence of the other truncation functors by shifting and taking opposite categories. If formula_109 is an object of formula_1, the third axiom for a \"t\"-structure asserts the existence of an formula_26 in formula_7 and a morphism formula_128 fitting into a certain distinguished triangle. For each formula_109, fix one such triangle and define formula_130. The axioms for a \"t\"-structure imply that, for any object formula_131 of formula_7, we have\nwith the isomorphism being induced by the morphism formula_128. This exhibits formula_26 as a solution to a certain universal mapping problem. Standard results on adjoint functors now imply that formula_26 is unique up to unique isomorphism and that there is a unique way to define formula_123 on morphisms that makes it a right adjoint. This proves the existence of formula_123 and hence the existence of all the truncation functors.\n\nRepeated truncation for a \"t\"-structure behaves similarly to repeated truncation for complexes. If formula_139, then there are natural transformations\nwhich yield natural equivalences\n\nThe \"n\"th \"cohomology functor\" formula_142 is defined as\nAs the name suggests, this is a cohomological functor in the usual sense for a triangulated category. That is, for any distinguished triangle formula_144, we obtain a long exact sequence\nIn applications to algebraic topology, the cohomology functors may be denoted formula_146 instead of formula_142. The cohomology functors take values in the heart formula_42. By one of the repeated truncation identities above, up to natural equivalence it is equivalent to define\n\nFor the natural \"t\"-structure on a derived category formula_75, the cohomology functor formula_142 is, up to quasi-isomorphism, the usual \"n\"th cohomology group of a complex. However, considered as functors on complexes, this is \"not\" true. Consider, for example, formula_152 as defined in terms of the natural \"t\"-structure. By definition, this is\nThis complex is non-zero in degrees formula_154 and formula_155, so it is clearly not the same as the zeroth cohomology group of the complex formula_78. However, the non-trivial differential is an injection, so the only non-trivial cohomology is in degree formula_155, where it is formula_158, the zeroth cohomology group of the complex formula_78. It follows that the two possible definitions of formula_160 are quasi-isomorphic.\n\nA \"t\"-structure is non-degenerate if the intersection of all formula_23, as well as the intersection of all formula_28, consists only of zero objects. For a non-degenerate \"t\"-structure, the collection of functors formula_163 is conservative. Moreover, in this case, formula_23 (resp. formula_28) may be identified with the full subcategory of those objects formula_109 for which formula_167 for formula_168 (resp. formula_169).\n\nFor formula_170, let formula_171 be a triangulated category with a fixed \"t\"-structure formula_172 Suppose that formula_173 is an exact functor (in the usual sense for triangulated categories, that is, up to a natural equivalence it commutes with translation and preserves distinguished triangles). Then formula_174 is:\n\nIt is elementary to see that if formula_174 is fully faithful and \"t\"-exact, then an object formula_109 of formula_179 is in formula_180 (resp. formula_181) if and only if formula_182 is in formula_183 (resp. formula_184). It is also elementary to see that if formula_185 is another left (resp. right) \"t\"-exact functor, then the composite formula_186 is also left (resp. right) \"t\"-exact.\n\nThe motivation for the study of one-sided \"t\"-exactness properties is that they lead to one-sided exactness properties on hearts. Let formula_187 be the inclusion. Then there is a composite functor\nIt can be shown that if formula_174 is left (resp. right) exact, then formula_190 is also left (resp. right) exact, and that if formula_191 is also left (resp. right) exact, then formula_192.\n\nIf formula_174 is left (resp. right) \"t\"-exact, and if formula_109 is in formula_7 (resp. formula_8), then there is a natural isomorphism formula_197 (resp. formula_198).\n\nIf formula_199 are exact functors with formula_200 left adjoint to formula_201, then formula_200 is right \"t\"-exact if and only if formula_201 is left \"t\"-exact, and in this case, formula_204 are a pair of adjoint functors formula_205.\n\nLet formula_2 be a \"t\"-structure on formula_1. If \"n\" is an integer, then the translation by \"n\" \"t\"-structure is formula_208. The dual \"t\"-structure is the \"t\"-structure on the opposite category formula_209 defined by formula_210.\n\nLet formula_211 be a triangulated subcategory of a triangulated category formula_1. If formula_2 is a \"t\"-structure on formula_1, then\nis a \"t\"-structure on formula_211 if and only if formula_211 is stable under the truncation functor formula_123. When this condition holds, the \"t\"-structure formula_219 is called the induced \"t\"-structure. The truncation and cohomology functors for the induced \"t\"-structure are the restriction to formula_211 of those on formula_1. Consequently, the inclusion of formula_211 in formula_1 is \"t\"-exact, and formula_224.\n\nTo construct the category of perverse sheaves, it is important to be able to define a \"t\"-structure on a category of sheaves over a space by working locally in that space. The precise conditions necessary for this to be possible can be abstracted somewhat to the following setup. Suppose that there are three triangulated categories and two morphisms\nsatisfying the following properties.\nIn this case, given \"t\"-structures formula_234 and formula_235 on formula_236 and formula_237, respectively, there is a \"t\"-structure on formula_1 defined by\nThis \"t\"-structure is said to be the gluing of the \"t\"-structures on \"U\" and \"F\". The intended use cases are when formula_1, formula_236, and formula_237 are bounded below derived categories of sheaves on a space \"X\", an open subset \"U\", and the closed complement \"F\" of \"U\". The functors formula_230 and formula_228 are the usual pullback and pushforward functors. This works, in particular, when the sheaves in question are left modules over a sheaf of rings formula_245 on \"X\" and when the sheaves are ℓ-adic sheaves.\n\nMany t-structures arise by means of the following fact: in a triangulated category with arbitrary direct sums, and a set formula_246 of compact objects in formula_1, the subcategories\ncan be shown to be a t-structure. The resulting \"t\"-structure is said to be generated by formula_246.\n\nGiven an abelian subcategory formula_83 of a triangulated category formula_1, it is possible to construct a subcategory of formula_1 and a \"t\"-structure on that subcategory whose heart is formula_83.\n\nThe elementary theory of \"t\"-structures carries over to the case of ∞-categories with few changes. Let formula_1 be a stable ∞-category. A \"t\"-structure on formula_1 is defined to be a \"t\"-structure on its homotopy category formula_256 (which is a triangulated category). A \"t\"-structure on an ∞-category can be notated either homologically or cohomologically, just as in the case of a triangulated category.\n\nSuppose that formula_1 is an ∞-category with homotopy category formula_256 and that formula_259 is a \"t\"-structure on formula_256. Then, for each integer \"n\", we define formula_261 and formula_262 to be the full subcategories of formula_1 spanned by the objects in formula_264 and formula_265, respectively. Define\nto be the inclusion functors. Just as in the case of a triangulated category, these admit a right and a left adjoint, respectively, the truncation functors\nThese functors satisfy the same repeated truncation identities as in the triangulated category case.\n\nThe heart of a \"t\"-structure on formula_1 is defined to be the ∞-subcategory formula_269. The category formula_42 is equivalent to the nerve of its homotopy category formula_271. The cohomology functor formula_146 is defined to be formula_273, or equivalently formula_274.\n\nThe existence of formula_275 means that formula_276 is, by definition, a localization functor. In fact, there is a bijection between \"t\"-structures on formula_1 and certain kinds of localization functors called \"t\"-localizations. These are localization functors \"L\" whose essential image is closed under extension, meaning that if formula_278 is a fiber sequence with \"X\" and \"Z\" in the essential image of \"L\", then \"Y\" is also in the essential image of \"L\". Given such a localization functor \"L\", the corresponding \"t\"-structure is defined by\n\"t\"-localization functors can also be characterized in terms of the morphisms \"f\" for which \"Lf\" is an equivalence. A set of morphisms \"S\" in an ∞-category formula_1 is quasisaturated if it contains all equivalences, if any 2-simplex in formula_1 with two of its non-degenerate edges in \"S\" has its third non-degenerate edge in \"S\", and if it is stable under pushouts. If formula_282 is a localization functor, then the set \"S\" of all morphisms \"f\" for which \"Lf\" is an equivalence is quasisaturated. Then \"L\" is a \"t\"-localization functor if and only if \"S\" is the smallest quasisaturated set of morphisms containing all morphisms formula_283.\n\nThe derived category of an abelian category has several subcategories corresponding to different boundedness conditions. A \"t\"-structure on a stable ∞-category can be used to construct similar subcategories. Specifically,\nThese are stable subcategories of formula_1. One says that formula_1 is left bounded (with respect to the given \"t\"-structure) if formula_287, right bounded if formula_288, and bounded if formula_289.\n\nIt is also possible to form a left or right completion with respect to a \"t\"-structure. This is analogous to formally adjoining directed limits or directed colimits. The left completion formula_290 of formula_1 is the homotopy limit of the diagram\nThe right completion is defined dually. The left and right completions are themselves stable ∞-categories which inherit a canonical \"t\"-structure. There is a canonical map from formula_1 to either of its completions, and this map is \"t\"-exact. We say that formula_1 is left complete or right complete if the canonical map to its left or right completion, respectively, is an equivalence.\n\nIf the requirement formula_295, formula_296 is replaced by the opposite inclusion\nand the other two axioms kept the same, the resulting notion is called a \"co-t-structure\" or \"weight structure\".\n"}
{"id": "1798934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798934", "title": "Tava", "text": "Tava\n\nA tava(h), tawa(h), tapa, saj, or saj tava is a flat or concave disc-shaped frying pan or griddle, usually made of cast iron, aluminum, or carbon steel. It may be enameled or given a non-stick surface. It is used in the cuisines of Central, West, and South Asia, and of the Caucasus, the Caribbean, and the Balkans. The large concave styles of tava, sometimes called a \"saj\" or \"sac tava\", may be turned upside down for cooking a variety of flatbreads on the convex side. The concave side is used like a wok or frying pan.\n\nIn nearly all Indo-Aryan languages such as Punjabi, Hindi and Urdu \"tawaa\" means cooking pan. It is cognate with the Persian word \"tāve\" (), which is used in Iran, and with the Georgian \"tapa\" (ტაფა); while the name \"saj\" (() in Arabic, \"lit.\" sheet-metal) and written \"saç\" or \"sac\" in Turkish is used in Southwest Asia, with overlap in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The word \"tava\" is also used in Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, Romanian and Turkish and refers to any kind of frying pan. In Serbia and Bulgaria, flat ceramic \"сач\" or \"сачѐ\" (sach/sache) are used for table-top cooking of thin slices of vegetables and meat; \"тава\" (tava), on the other hand, are metal baking dishes with sides. In Pashto it is more popularly known as Tabakhey (تبخے/طبخی).\n\nA \"tava\" or \"saj\" is used to bake a variety of leavened and unleavened flatbreads and pancakes across the broad region: pita, naan, saj bread, roti, chapati, paratha, dosa, and pesarattu. In Pakistan, especially in rural areas, large convex \"saj\" are used to cook several breads at a same time or to make rumali roti.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798955", "title": "Tanaka Hisashige", "text": "Tanaka Hisashige\n\nTanaka was born in Kurume, Chikugo province (present-day Fukuoka prefecture) as the eldest son of a tortoise shell craftsman. Apprenticed at an early age, he was a gifted artisan. At the age of eight, he invented an inkstone case with a secret lock, which required a cord to be twisted in a certain manner to open it. At the age of 14, he had invented a loom capable of weaving intricate designs into fabric.\nFrom age 20 he began to make \"karakuri\" dolls, autonomous dolls powered by springs, pneumatics and hydraulics, capable of relatively complex movements, which were much in demand by the aristocrats of Kyoto, \"daimyō\" in feudal domains, and by the Shōgun’s court in Edo. At age 21, he was performing around the country at festivals with clockwork dolls he constructed himself. He declined to take over the family business, surrendering his position to his younger brother and devoted his full attention to \"karakuri\" dolls. However, by his mid-thirties, these mechanical dolls had started to fall out of fashion. In 1834, he relocated to Osaka, where he experimented in pneumatics, hydraulics and forms of lighting based on rapeseed oil, including a pocket candlestick and an oil lamp with an air-pressurized fuel pump which proved to be very popular.\n\nHe then moved on to Kyoto, where he studied \"rangaku\", or western learning, and astronomy. He invented a pneumatic fire pump, and in 1851, he built a myriad year clock which is now designated as an Important Cultural Property by the Japanese government. \n\nWith the development of the \"Sonnō jōi\" movement, the atmosphere in Kyoto became increasingly dangerous towards foreign influences and technology, and Tanaka was invited by Sano Tsunetami to Saga Domain in Kyūshū, where he was welcomed by Nabeshima Naomasa. \n\nWhile in Saga, Tanaka designed and built Japan’s first domestically made steam locomotive and steam warship. Although he had no previous experience in the field, he had access to a Dutch reference book and had watched the demonstration of a steam engine by the Russian diplomat Yevfimy Putyatin during his visit to Nagasaki in 1853. He later was a student at the Nagasaki Naval Training Center. On its closure and the withdrawal of its Dutch advisors, Tanaka moved back to Saga and worked at the \"Seirenkata\", where he built models of steam warships (both with screws and with side-paddles), a steam locomotive and experimented with making a telegraph and a glass factory.\n\nHe was involved in the construction of a reverberatory furnace in Saga for the production of Armstrong guns. In 1864, he returned to his native Kurume Domain, where he assisted in the development of modern weaponry.\n\nIn 1873, six years after the Meiji Restoration, Tanaka, then age 74 and still energetic, was invited by the Ministry of Industry to come to Tokyo to make telegraphs at the ministry's small factory. He relocated to the Ginza district in 1875. He rented the second floor of a temple in what is now Roppongi as a workshop that evolved into his first company — Tanaka Seisakusho (Tanaka Engineering Works), the first manufacturer of telegraph equipment in Japan.\nAfter his death in 1881, his son founded . The company changed its name after Tanaka’s death to in 1904. After a merger in 1939 with Tokyo Denki it became Tokyo Shibaura Denki, more commonly known today as Toshiba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798971", "title": "Add-drop multiplexer", "text": "Add-drop multiplexer\n\nAn add-drop multiplexer (ADM) is an important element of an optical fiber network. A multiplexer combines, or multiplexes, several lower-bandwidth streams of data into a single beam of light. An \"add-drop\" multiplexer also has the capability to \"add\" one or more lower-bandwidth signals to an existing high-bandwidth data stream, and at the same time can extract or \"drop\" other low-bandwidth signals, removing them from the stream and redirecting them to some other network path. This is used as a local \"on-ramp\" and \"off-ramp\" to the high-speed network.\n\nADMs can be used both in long-haul core networks and in shorter-distance \"metro\" networks, although the former are much more expensive due to the difficulty of scaling the technology to the high data rates and dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) used for long-haul communications. The main optical filtering technology used in add-drop multiplexers is the Fabry–Pérot etalon.\n\nNewer \"multi-service SONET/SDH\" (also known as a multi-service provisioning platform or MSPP) equipment has all the capabilities of legacy ADMs, but can also include cross-connect functionality to manage multiple fiber rings in a single chassis. These devices can replace multiple legacy ADMs and also allow connections directly from Ethernet LANs to a service provider's optical backbone. At the end of 2003, sales of multiservice ADMs exceeded those of legacy ADMs for the first time, as the change to next-generation SONET/SDH networks accelerated.\n\nAn emerging variety of ADMs that is becoming popular as the carriers continue to invest in metro optical networks are reconfigurable optical add-drop multiplexers (ROADMs).\n\n"}
{"id": "1798975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798975", "title": "Split pin", "text": "Split pin\n\nA split pin, also known in the United States as a cotter pin or cotter key, is a metal fastener with two tines that are bent during installation, similar to a staple or rivet. Typically made of thick wire with a half-circular cross section, split pins come in multiple sizes and types.\n\nThe British definition of \"cotter pin\" is equivalent to U.S. term \"cotter\". To avoid confusion, the term split cotter is sometimes used for a split pin. A further use of the term \"cotter pin\" is the \"crank cotter pin\" used to lock bicycle pedal cranks to the bottom bracket axle. These are not \"split\" at all and are wedge shaped.\n\nA new split pin (see figure A) has its flat inner surfaces touching for most of its length so that it appears to be a split cylinder (figure D). Once inserted, the two ends of the pin are bent apart, locking it in place (figure B). When they are removed they are supposed to be discarded and replaced, because of fatigue from bending.\n\nSplit pins are typically made of soft metal, making them easy to install and remove, but also making it inadvisable to use them to resist strong shear forces. Common materials include mild steel, brass, bronze, stainless steel, and aluminium.\n\nThe most common type of split pin is the extended prong with a square cut, but extended prongs are available with all of the other types of ends. The extended prong type is popular because the difference in length of the two tines makes it easier to separate them. To ease insertion into a hole the longer tine may be slightly curved to overlap the tip of the shorter tine or it is beveled.\n\n\"Hammer lock\" split pins are properly installed by striking the head with a hammer to secure the pin. This forces the shorter tine forward, spreading the pin.\n\nTypes include Standard, Humped and Clinch.\n\nThe diameter of split pins are standardized.\nAmerican split pins start at  in and end at  in. Metric conversions in the table below are approximate.\nSplit pins are frequently used to secure other fasteners, e.g. clevis pins, as well as being used in combination with hardboard discs as a traditional joining technique for teddy bears. A common application of this is when used to secure a castellated nut. \nSplit pins may be used in some applications as low-tech shear pins.\n\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "1798979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798979", "title": "Shahrisabz", "text": "Shahrisabz\n\nShakhrisabz ( ; ; (city of green / verdant city); ), is a city in Qashqadaryo Region in southern Uzbekistan located approximately 80 km south of Samarkand with a population of 100,300 (2014). It is located at an altitude of 622 m. Historically known as Kesh or Kish, Shahrisabz was once a major city of Central Asia and was an important urban center of Sogdiana, a province of the Achaemenid Empire of Persia. It is primarily known today as the birthplace of 14th-century Turco-Mongol conqueror Timur.\n\nFormerly known as Kesh or Kish (\"heart-pleasing\") and tentatively identified with the ancient Nautaca, Shahrisabz is one of Central Asia’s most ancient cities. It was founded more than 2,700 years ago and formed a part of the Achaemenid Empire or Persia from the 6th to 4th centuries BC. Throughout this period Kesh remained an important urban center of Sogdiana, a major province within the Empire. Documents from the late Achaemenid period speak of the renovation of the city's walls. Its name was officially changed to Shahrisabz in the modern era.\n\nAlexander the Great's general Ptolemy captured the satrap of Bactria and pretender to the Persian throne, Bessus, at Nautaca thus ending the once great Achaemenid Empire. Alexander the Great chose to spend his winters and met his wife Roxanna in the area in 328-327 BC. Between 567 and 658 CE rulers of Kesh paid taxes to khagans of Turkic and Western Turkic khaganates. In 710 the city was conquered by the Arabs and following the Mongol conquest of Khwarezmia in the 13th century, the region came under the control of the Barlas tribe, all of whose lineages seem to have been associated with this region. Kesh was the birthplace of Timur in 1336, to the family of a minor local Barlas chief, and during the early years of the Timurid Dynasty, the city enjoyed his considerable patronage. Timur regarded Kesh as his “home town” and planned it eventually to be the location of his tomb. However, during his reign, the center of activity shifted to Samarkand instead. According to legend, the Khan of Bukhara, Abdullah Khan II had the city destroyed in a fit of rage over the death of his favorite horse from exhaustion on a steep approach to the city, but was later overcome with remorse for the damage he had done.\n\nThe city struggled for autonomy under Bukharan rule and the Russians helped the Bukharan emir conquering the city in 1870.\n\nSeveral remaining impressive monuments from the Timurid Dynasty have enabled the old part of the city to be inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. However, destruction of vast areas of the medieval townscape in 2015 to create a park and tourist facilities have led to concern from UNESCO. It is possible that the listing could be lost.\n\n\nTimur's Summer Palace, the “White Palace” was planned as the most grandiose of all Timur's constructions. It was started in 1380 by artisans deported by Timur from the recently conquered Khwarezm. Unfortunately, only parts of its gigantic 65 m gate-towers survive, with blue, white and gold mosaics. Above the entry of the Ak-Saray are big letters saying: \"If you challenge our power – look at our buildings!\"\n\n\nA Friday mosque built in 1437 by Ulugh Beg in honor of his father Shah Rukh, its name meaning “Blue Dome”. Located immediately behind the Kok Gumbaz Mosque is the so-called “House of Meditation”, a mausoleum built by Ulugh Beg in 1438 but apparently never used for burials.\n\n\nEast of the Kok Gumbaz is another mausoleum complex called Dorus-Saodat (Seat of Power and Might), which contains the Tomb of Jehangir, Timur's eldest and favorite son. The adjacent mosque is said to house the tomb of a revered 8th century imam Amir Kulal.\n\nBehind the Hazrat-i Imam Emsemble is a bunker with a door leading to an underground chamber, discovered by archaeologists in 1943. The room is nearly filled with a single stone casket, on which inscriptions indicate that it was intended for Timur. However, the conqueror was buried in Samarkand, not at Shahrisabz, and mysteriously, his tomb in Shahrisabz contained two unidentified corpses.\n\nAlso of interest are medieval baths and an 18th-century bazaar.\n\n\nIn 1980s the Uzbek Soviet band Yalla wrote a song about Shahrisabz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1798997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798997", "title": "Metamfepramone", "text": "Metamfepramone\n\nMetamfepramone (INN, also known as dimethylcathinone, dimethylpropion, and dimepropion (BAN)) is a stimulant drug of the phenethylamine, and cathinone chemical classes. Dimethylcathinone was evaluated as an appetite suppressant and for the treatment of hypotension, but was never widely marketed.\n\nIt was used as a recreational drug in Israel under the name rakefet, but was made illegal in 2006.\n\nMetamfepramone is metabolized to produce \"N\"-methylpseudoephedrine and methcathinone.. It has also been found to be about 1.6 times less potency than methcathinone, making it roughly equipotent to cathinone itself. \n"}
{"id": "1799003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799003", "title": "Hapū", "text": "Hapū\n\nIn Māoridom and New Zealand, a hapū (\"subtribe\", or \"clan\") functions as \"the basic political unit within Māori society\".\n\nAs named divisions of Māori (tribes), hapū have membership determined by genealogical descent; a hapū comprises a number of (extended family) groups.\n\nIn the 1870 census the Whakatōhea iwi of the Bay of Plenty had five named hapū ranging in size from 51 to 165 people. Some of their hapū were apparently overlooked as an iwi register from 1874 showed two more hapū but these had small numbers: 22 and 44. The hapū of this iwi ranged in size from 22 to 188. In 1874, hapū still had a small male to female imbalance overall with six of the seven iwi having far more males than females. In the four-year period between the census and the register all the hapū had grown significantly at a time when popular opinion was Maori population was in decline. Ngāti Rua gained 8, Ngāti Patu gained 28, Ngāti Tama gained 63, Ngāti Ira lost 4, Ngāti Ngahere gained 17. These population gains were at a time when the iwi had land confiscated by the government for their support of various anti-government movements. Some hapū in other iwi were larger. A Māori person can belong to or have links to many different hapū.\n\nBefore the arrival of Europeans in New Zealand the normal day-to-day operating group in Māori society seems to have been the smaller whānau. By the 1820s Māori had learnt the economic benefit of working in larger groups - especially when it came to trading with ships. The larger hapū could work more effectively to produce surplus flax, potatoes, smoked heads and pigs in exchange for blankets, tobacco, axes and trade muskets. In warfare the hapū operated as the standard grouping for warriors during the period of the Musket Wars (1807-1842). Hapū would unite politically under their own chief, to form much larger armies of up to several thousand warriors, although it was common for hapū to retain independence within the larger group.\n\nEach hapū had its own chief and normally operated independently of the tribe (iwi) group.\n\nTe Maire Tau noted in his study of Ngāi Tahu migrations that hapū size and names were volatile, with hapū splitting into sister groups when they grew in size or when migrating. New hapū often adopted names from events associated with the migration. Likewise the same group of people would change their name according to different circumstances. Name changes primarily asserted rights to resources given to a named hapū, or emphasised a link to an ancestor with mana in a particular area. Tau states that hapū names and locations have become more stable in more recent times.\n\nMissionaries such Henry Williams (1792-1867) noted that even in times of war against another iwi, hapū usually operated independently. In the period of the Musket Wars (1807-1842) many of the battles involved fighting between competing hapū rather than different iwi. It was not uncommon for two hapū from the same iwi to clash.\n\nHapū frequently were the political unit that sold land to the Europeans. In the 20 years after the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi in 1840, according to Native Affairs Minister Chris Richmond, different hapū or comparatively small groups of individuals sold half of all the blocks sold under the Treaty of Waitangi. Richmond said that hapū or small groups sold all the land sold north of Auckland, some in Hawke's Bay, in the Wairarapa valley, in the Waikato at Raglan, and sales by Te Āti Awa in Wellington and Taranaki.\n\nThe word \"hapū\" literally means \"pregnant\"; the usage in a socio-political context expresses a metaphor for the genealogical connection that unites the members of the hapū. (Similarly, the Māori word for land, \"whenua\", can also mean \"placenta\", metaphorically indicating the connection between the people and the land, and the word iwi, for a Māori tribal group, can also mean \"bones\", indicating a link to ancient ancestors.)\n\n"}
{"id": "1799004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799004", "title": "Runaway Horses", "text": "Runaway Horses\n\nSet between June 1932 and December 1933, it tells the story of young Isao Iinuma, a rightist reactionary trained in the samurai code by his father. Isao becomes the instigator of a plot to topple the zaibatsu that he feels have corrupted the Yamato-damashii and betrayed the will of the Emperor. He is assured of the army's assistance by the young Lieutenant Hori. They plan to assassinate many key government figures simultaneously on December 3, 1932.\n\nShigekuni Honda, a character who figured prominently in \"Spring Snow\", the first novel of the cycle, appears again here as a judge and later lawyer. He comes to believe that Isao is the reincarnation of Kiyoaki Matsugae, the aristocratic schoolfriend whose story was told in \"Spring Snow\". Realising that Isao too seems to be hurtling towards a \"picturesque\" death, he makes strenuous efforts to save him without revealing this personal connection.\n\nIt is just after the May 15 Incident of 1932. Shigekuni Honda, the law student from \"Spring Snow\", is now a junior associate judge at the Osaka Court of Appeals. He is asked by Judge Sugawa to give an address at a kendo tournament on June 16 at the Ōmiwa Shrine in Sakurai, Nara Prefecture.\n\nAt the tournament, the chief priest points out to him a promising athlete called Isao Iinuma. Honda realises that this is the son of Shigeyuki Iinuma, Kiyoaki's old tutor, now a right-wing \"personality\". After lunch, Honda climbs the sugi-clad Mount Miwa, and afterwards descends to Sanko Falls to bathe. Some of the kendoists are already there. Honda is startled to see that Isao has the same three moles on his side that Kiyoaki had, and remembers Kiyoaki's dying words: \"I'll see you again. I know it. Beneath the falls.\"\n\nThe next day, at the Saigusa Festival at Izagawa Shrine in Nara, Honda is introduced to Mr. Iinuma. He now runs an \"Academy of Patriotism\" and is slowly going to seed, morbidly talkative, his face \"marked by the years and by the common tribulations.\" Honda invites him and his son to dinner that evening. Iinuma accepts, and responds by introducing Honda to the poet, retired Lt.-Gen. Kito, and his 30-year-old divorced daughter Makiko.\n\nIinuma and his son leave for Tokyo after the dinner. Just before they go, Isao lends Honda a copy of his favourite book, \"The League of the Divine Wind\" by Tsunanori Yamao, and urges him to read it.\n\n\"At the time of the... Imperial Restoration, the indications had been altogether favourable that the august wish of His Late Majesty Komei to expel the barbarians would be fulfilled. But clouds soon cut off the light of Heaven... swords were forbidden to the common people... it was decreed that samurai could cut off their topknot and that they might go without swords.\"\n\nIn 1873, four samurai worship at Shingai Shrine in Kumamoto Prefecture, and then await the results of a divination performed by the priest Otaguro, the heir of the late, revered Oen Hayashi, whose 200 followers will come to be known as \"the League of the Divine Wind\". The proposals they have put to the gods are: \"To bring an end to misgovernment by admonishing authority even to the forfeiture of life\" and \"to cut down the unworthy ministers by striking in darkness with the sword\". Both return the response \"Not propitious.\" In 1874, the proposal Otaguro puts is to take advantage of the vulnerability induced by the Saga Rebellion. Again, the Ukei rite returns \"Not propitious.\"\n\nOn 18 March 1876, the wearing of swords is prohibited. Harukata Kaya resigns as priest of Kinzan Shrine and presents a petition to the prefectural governor. In May, the rite of Ukei is performed by Otaguro, this time returning \"Propitious.\" The others wish Kaya to join them in rebellion, but he is reluctant. A further rite convinces Kaya that it is his duty.\n\nOn arriving at Kumamoto Castle on the night of 24 October 1876, the 200 warriors split into three units. The first attacks the residences of the major officials; Governor Yasuoka is killed. The second attacks the artillery battalion, with great success; the third attacks the infantry encampment, breaking down barrack doors and throwing in grenades. The tide turns when ammunition is found for the garrisoned troops, and when the second unit rushes to the aid of the third, it is entrapped, and both Kaya and Otaguro die.\n\nThe next morning, on the 9th day of the 9th month (lunar calendar), 46 survivors gather on Mount Kinpo, less than four miles (6 km) west of Kumamoto Castle. The six boats intended for escape are stuck in tidal mud and it is debated what they should do. The seven youngest rebels are sent away with Tsuruda, and the rest descend to Chikozu beach. A scouting party returns with the report that a crackdown is underway and no further military action can be taken. Accordingly, the survivors split up. One by one they surrender or commit seppuku, and a detailed accounting is given of each man's end. The pamphlet concludes with a quotation from \"The Romance of the Divine Fire\", a book written by a surviving rebel.\n\nHonda sends the book back with a letter that Isao reads when he arrives at school. In it, Honda expresses a new respect for the League, and for the forces of the irrational in general (influenced by his new belief in reincarnation, although that is a secret) and discusses the dead Kiyoaki and his passion for Satoko. However, he warns Isao that the tale of the League is \"unsuitable\" for him, and dangerous, and lectures him at length on the need for \"the comprehensive picture offered by history.\"\n\nIsao concludes that Honda's \"age and profession have turned him into a coward\", but that the judge is still in some sense \"a man of 'purity'.\"\n\nAfter school, Isao and two schoolfriends (Izutsu and Sagara) go to the boarding-house of a right-wing army officer, Lieutenant Hori. (It is Kitazaki's—the same inn that appeared in \"Spring Snow\".) Isao boldly announces his intention of organising a \"Showa League\" and voices extreme sentiments for which Hori expresses sympathy, although the lieutenant become tense when Isao asks direct questions about Hori's connections to men involved in the May 15 Incident. The three boys stay until 9pm, listening to him discuss current affairs. Isao lends him \"The League of the Divine Wind\".\n\nOn Sunday morning in July, Isao conducts a kendo practice for young boys in the drill hall of the neighbourhood police station. While a detective called Tsuboi talks to him, four Communists are brought to the prison, and Isao feels a stab of envy. Iinuma runs an \"Academy of Patriotism\" in a wing of his large house in Hongō. We learn about what happened to Iinuma and Miné between 1914 and 1932, and meet the 40-year-old student named Sawa. After Master Kaido's Sunday lecture, Isao shows his two schoolfriends a map of Tokyo, suggesting an air-raid on the areas he has coloured in purple. Later on they have dinner with Makiko at her house, and the four discuss who in Japan most deserves assassination. Isao names Kurahara. Makiko has kept the lilies Isao brought from Izagawa Shrine a month ago, and hands them one each.\n\nIsao visits Hori at the garrison. Hori expresses irritation with Isao's hot-headed talk. During kendo practice, he is impressed with Isao's abilities, and proposes taking him to an audience with Prince Harunori Toin, the military royal for whom Satoko had been intended.\n\nBaron Shinkawa gives a banquet at his villa in Karuizawa. Five couples sit and chat in his garden before dinner: the Matsugaes, the Shinkawas, the Kuraharas, the Matsudairas, and the Minister of State and his wife. They discuss current affairs in great detail, with prominence given to the personality and monetaristic opinions of Kurahara. We discover the fate of members of the Matsugae household. The Marquis Matsugae himself is humiliated by his insignificance, even by the fact he has no bodyguard.\n\nIsao has an audience with Prince Toin, against Iinuma's wishes. Hori and the Prince chat for a while; when the Prince criticises the nobility, Isao uses the opportunity to give him \"The League\" and to express his ideas about \"bushido\".\n\nBy this time, Isao has gathered 20 more boys into his circle, and Izutsu and Sagara have studied explosives. Two weeks before the end of summer vacation, he sends all the boys a telegram ordering them to return to Tokyo for a meeting at the school shrine at 6pm. All turn up and are stunned when Isao tells them it was only a drill; three leave. Isao then has the remaining boys swear vows of fealty. To Isao's surprise, Makiko turns up, and takes them all to dinner at a restaurant in Shibuya.\n\nChapter 19 gives a description of the opening of a Noh play attended by Honda in Osaka, called \"Matsukaze\". While watching the two ghostly women ladle seawater into their brine-cart, Honda suddenly decides that his grief for Kiyoaki has deceived him and that there could be no real connection between Kiyoaki and Isao.\n\nWhile hanging out his washing in October (on a certain Mr Koyama's 77th birthday), Sawa asks Isao if he can go with him and his \"study group\" to Master Kaido's training camp in the week starting on the 20 October. Isao makes no reply. Sawa, while serving him tea in his own room, starts to describe how three years ago Iinuma helped extort 50,000 yen from a newspaper and used his 10,000 yen share to bolster the Academy. Isao is disappointed, but not shocked until Sawa warns him, without explanation, that he cannot hurt Kurahara without betraying his father. Wondering if Kurahara is a secret patron of the Academy, Isao later returns to Sawa's room and demands an explanation. Sawa responds by begging to be allowed to kill Kurahara himself. But after hearing him out, Isao smilingly denies there is any plot.\n\nHonda hears an account of the \"coup d'état\" that took place in Siam on 24 June, during which the country became a constitutional monarchy controlled by Col. Phahon Phonphayuhasena. On Friday 21 October, Honda attends a judicial conference in Tokyo, and on Sunday goes with Iinuma to see Isao at the riverside training camp at Yanagawa. Isao is in trouble: he has taken offence at the bland Shintoism espoused by Master Kaido and gone out to kill an animal after having been ritually purified. When he accompanies the whole group as they look for Isao, Honda is startled to realise that one of the dreams in Kiyoaki's journal is now being acted out in detail.\n\nIsao holds a secret meeting on Monday evening and shows the other boys his elaborate plan for a \"Shōwa Restoration\" placing all government functions under the Emperor's control, through (1) destroying Tokyo's six electric transformer substations, (2) assassinating Shinkawa, Nagasaki and Kurahara, and (3) burning the Bank of Japan, events that would lead to the desired declaration of martial law, after which they would all commit \"seppuku\". The plan mentions Hori and Prince Toin. They discuss details of the plot; Isao names December 3 at random as the date, and they receive an unexpected windfall of 1000 yen from Sawa, who claims he acquired the money by selling land.\n\nHonda visits Kiyoaki's grave before returning to Osaka. On November 7, Lieutenant Hori summons Isao and tells him he is being sent to Manchuria on November 15. When Hori suggests moving the date of the plot to this week, Isao realises that he has no intention of taking part. Hori suddenly urges Isao to give up the plot, and Isao pretends to be persuaded. At the group's secret headquarters (a rented house in Yotsuya Sumon) Isao tries to salvage the plan. Seyama, Tsujimura and Ui argue with Isao in private, and he dismisses them from the group. Within days, only 10 are left with Isao, and on November 12 they are joined by Sawa, who sets out a plan for the 12 of them to assassinate one capitalist each. Sawa is assigned Kurahara, and Isao is assigned Baron Shinkawa.\n\nIsao visits the Kitos one last time on November 29 to deliver a present of oysters, but Makiko follows him, guessing that he has resolved to die, and they kiss on a hill opposite Hakusan Park. Makiko promises to go to Ōmiwa Shrine at Sakurai and bring them each back a talisman the day before they go ahead. Isao does not admit they already each have one of her lily petals.\n\nThe morning of December 1, the boy conspirators are at their hideout, discussing the daggers they have bought, when they are arrested by detectives. In the afternoon Sawa is arrested at the Academy.\n\nOn reading about Isao in the newspaper, Honda resolves to save him, and resigns his judgeship to act as defence lawyer for Isao. In Tokyo, Iinuma thanks him, and then claims that it was he himself who informed the police, and that he did it to save his son from death. Prince Toin summons Honda to his house on December 30. The prince expresses sympathy for the twelve, but is horrified when Honda informs him that he was mentioned by name in the propaganda leaflets they prepared, and loses interest in helping them. Honda saves the situation by persuading him to lean on the Imperial Household Minister to have that part of the evidence suppressed.\n\nIsao is moved to Ichigaya Prison in late January, and a long prophetic dream is described. He learns that Honda will be defending him, and realises that he has awakened popular sympathy. During an interrogation he hears Communists being tortured, and asks why he is not tortured; the interrogator replies that as a rightist he has his heart in the right place. In June he receives a Saigusa Festival lily from Makiko, which she has gone all the way to Nara to pick. The trial opens on June 25. The evidence of the leaflets has been suppressed, and it becomes clear that Lt. Hori is unlikely to be indicted.\n\nAt the second session on July 19, Isao boldly admits to planning the assassinations. Honda tries to fudge the issue by bringing up the purchase of the daggers and leading the witness Izutsu to admit that, as imitators of the League of Divine Wind, these weapons would be more appropriate for committing \"seppuku\" than for murder. The innkeeper Kitazaki is called as witness, and he says he heard Hori telling a lone visitor to \"Give it up!\" although he did not know to whom Hori was speaking. Pressed to identify the person, Kitazaki points to Isao, but his strange words seem to suggest he is confusing Isao with Kiyoaki, although they had no physical resemblance. Most assume he is senile. Only Honda realizes the significance of his confusion of Kiyoaki and Isao.\nMakiko is called as witness, and while reading a mendacious diary entry for November 29, she manages to cleverly insinuate that Isao was not only planning to abandon the conspiracy, but that he was merely a schoolboy in over his head, boasting and play-acting all along. The manipulative older woman hopes that her young lover will surrender his ideals and save himself by lying, since he cannot contradict her in court without exposing her to a charge of perjury. Thinking fast, Isao sidesteps dishonor by claiming that he did indeed talk of giving up the conspiracy, but only to spare her from any consequences of his actions. The judge, who becomes sympathetic, allows him to enlarge on his motives, and he delivers a long address on the suffering of the common people and the need to destroy the deadly spirit poisoning Japan. The prosecutor expresses doubts about Makiko's testimony, but it is clear he senses defeat.\n\nThe verdict is handed down on December 26. They are found guilty, but punishment is remitted on account of their youth and pure motives, and they are released. That evening, a celebratory dinner is held at the Academy of Patriotism. Tsumura, the youngest student, is irritated by the jolly atmosphere and shows Isao a newspaper account of desecratory blunders made by Kurahara on December 16 at the Inner Ise Shrine. Iinuma, drunk, tells Isao that he was the informant. Isao is not surprised until Iinuma goes on to say that the Academy is run entirely with money paid by Baron Shinkawa as protection, and that Shinkawa made him promise, just before the May 15 Incident, never to allow Kurahara to be touched. Later, Honda hears the sleeping Isao mutter \"Far to the south. Very hot...in the rose sunshine of a southern land,\" predicting his next reincarnation. In the morning he meets Tsuboi, who asks him to teach kendo to children, and he has a vision of himself doing so till old age. Sawa takes Isao into his room and lets him know that it was Makiko (whom Isao has not seen since the trial) who told Iinuma of their plan by telephone. This is the final straw for Isao.\n\nOn 29 December, Isao slips away from Sawa during a lantern procession, buys a dagger, and travels to Inamura, a seaside village near Atami, Shizuoka. He breaks into Kurahara's weekend house, stabs him to death because of his blasphemy at Ise Shrine, then runs through his tangerine orchards down to a cave on the shore where he commits seppuku.\n\nThe book explores the history and atmosphere of the early Showa Period and also of the Meiji Period through Isao's increasing obsession with the League of the Divine Wind, a group that attempted an insurrection in Kumamoto in October 1876, eight years after the Meiji Restoration, in reaction to the prohibition of the wearing of swords.\n\nIt also discusses the Wang Yangming school of thought (according to which, \"to know and not to act is not truly to know\"), espoused in Japan by Chusai Oshio, a rebel who died in 1837 while leading an insurrection in Osaka.\n\nWhile Mishima's vision is considerably darker, more ambiguous and more complex than that of J.D. Salinger, the theme of adult corruption versus adolescent purity is strongly present throughout the novel. Isao resembles Holden Caulfield in his disdain for adult duplicity, hypocrisy, and the dreary ugliness of adult sexuality, but differs from him sharply in terms of his greater courage, his charisma and natural leadership, his passionate eloquence and athletic skill, his reverence for the past, and above all his willingness to sacrifice himself for the greater good.\n\nIsao's final acts are to a certain extent nihilistic because he performs them after he has become aware of their falsehood and futility. In other words, it is a much more profound kind of suicide than the one he had been planning.\n\nThe book explores the boundary between atheism and religious belief by presenting Honda with seeming evidence of reincarnation and exploring his emotional responses. The religions of Buddhism and Shinto are contrasted.\n\n\n\n\"Runaway Horses\" is the most explicitly political of the novels in \"The Sea of Fertility\" and contains detailed descriptions of the court and penitentiary systems of the time, and of official attitudes towards political extremists.\n\nUntil after World War II, Japanese people generally reckoned age by \"number of different regnal years lived in\" rather than by birthdays. So in ch. 36, Isao is asked his age at the trial in July 1933 and responds \"20\", although his 20th birthday cannot occur until after February 1934. The translation usually tries to disguise this problem.\n\n\"Runaway Horses\" is one of three Mishima novels adapted by Paul Schrader for his 1985 film \"\". It features in chapter three, \"Action\". The other two novels are \"The Temple of the Golden Pavilion\" and \"Kyoko's House\".\n\nIn a letter about \"The League of the Divine Wind\", Isao's favorite book (a book which Mishima reproduces in full), Honda writes to him: \"At your age, however, every excitement is dangerous. Every excitement that can send one pitching headlong is dangerous. And some are especially dangerous. For example, judging from that light that flashes from your eyes to disconcert those around you, I would think that your very nature makes a tale of this sort 'unsuitable' for you.\"\n\nIn prison, Isao considers the reasons for the failure of his plot and subsequent imprisonment. He determines that the very act or bonding with his comrades in a \"blood brotherhood\" had brought about, or in the words of the novel \"crystallized\", an evil that is only possible in the presence of purity, musing: \"The purest evil that human efforts could attain, in other words, was probably achieved by those men who made their wills the same and who made their eyes see the world in the same way, men who went against the pattern of life's diversity, men whose spirits shattered the natural wall of the individual body, making nothing of this barrier, set up to guard against mutual corrosion, men whose spirit accomplished what flesh could never accomplish.\"\n"}
{"id": "1799006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799006", "title": "Dark Night (song)", "text": "Dark Night (song)\n\nDark Night is a song by The Blasters. It was first featured on the 1985 album \"Hard Line\". The earliest offerings of the song in popular culture can be found in the 1985 episode \"Whatever Works\" in of the TV crime drama Miami Vice. It experienced a resurgence in popularity after being prominently featured in the 1996 Robert Rodriguez film \"From Dusk Till Dawn\" as the opening and closing song. It also featured as the main theme in the 2005 motion picture, \"Dark Night\".\n"}
{"id": "1799016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799016", "title": "Awen", "text": "Awen\n\nAwen is a Welsh, Cornish and Breton word for \"(poetic) inspiration\".\nIn the Welsh tradition, awen is the inspiration of the poet bards; or, in its personification, Awen is the inspirational muse of creative artists in general: the inspired individual (often a poet or a soothsayer) is described as an awenydd. Emma Restall Orr, founder and former head of The Druid Network, defines awen as 'flowing spirit' and says that 'Spirit energy in flow is the essence of life'.\n\nIn current usage, \"awen\" is sometimes ascribed to musicians and poets. It is also occasionally used as a male and female given name.\n\nIt appears in the third stanza of Hen Wlad fy Nhadau, the national anthem of Wales.\n\n\"Awen\" derives from the Indo-European root \"*-uel\", meaning 'to blow', and has the same root as the Welsh word \"awel\" meaning 'breeze'.\n\nThe first recorded attestation of the word occurs in Nennius' \"Historia Brittonum\", a Latin text of c. 796, based in part on earlier writings by the Welsh monk, Gildas. It occurs in the phrase 'Tunc talhaern tat aguen in poemate claret' (Talhaern the father of the muse was then renowned in poetry) where the Old Welsh word \"aguen\" (awen) occurs in the Latin text describing poets from the sixth century.\n\nIt is also recorded in its current form in \"Canu Llywarch Hen\" (9th or 10th century?) where Llywarch says 'I know by my awen' indicating it as a source of instinctive knowledge.\n\nOn connections between awen as poetic inspiration and as an infusion from the Divine, \"The Book of Taliesin\" often implies this. A particularly striking example is contained in the lines:\n\nban pan doeth peir\nogyrwen awen teir\n\n-literally “the three elements of inspiration that came, splendid, out of the cauldron” but implicitly “that came from God” as ‘peir’ (cauldron) can also mean ‘sovereign’ often with the meaning ‘God’. It is the “three elements” that is cleverly worked in here as awen was sometimes characterised as consisting of three sub-divisions (‘ogyrwen’) so “the ogyrwen of triune inspiration”, perhaps suggesting the Trinity.\n\nGiraldus Cambrensis referred to those inspired by the awen as 'awenyddion' in his \"Description of Wales\" (1194):\n\n(Chapter XVI: Concerning the soothsayers of this nation, and persons as it were possessed) \n\nIn 1694, the Welsh poet Henry Vaughan wrote to his cousin, the antiquary John Aubrey, in response to a request for some information about the remnants of Druidry in existence in Wales at that time, saying\n\nIn some forms of Neo-Druidism the term is symbolized by an emblem showing three straight lines that spread apart as they move downward, drawn within a circle or a series of circles of varying thickness, often with a dot, or point, atop each line. The British Druid Order attributes the symbol to Iolo Morganwg; it has been adopted by some Neo-Druids.\n\nThe Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids (OBOD) describe the three lines as rays emanating from three points of light, with those points representing the triple aspect of deity and, also, the points at which the sun rises on the equinoxes and solstices – known as the Triad of the Sunrises. The emblem as used by the OBOD is surrounded by three circles representing the three circles of creation.\n\nVarious Neo-Druidic groups and individuals have their own interpretation of the awen. The three lines relate to earth, sea and air; body, mind and spirit; or love, wisdom and truth. It is also said that the awen stands for not simply inspiration, but for inspiration of truth; without awen one cannot proclaim truth. The three foundations of awen are the understanding of truth, the love of truth, and the maintaining of truth.\n\nA version of the awen was approved by the U.S. Veterans Administration in early 2017 for use on veteran headstones.\n\n\nKenneth Jackson, \"Tradition in Early Irish Prophecy\", Man, Vol. 34, (May 1934), pp. 67–70.\n\n"}
{"id": "1799021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799021", "title": "Simple Gifts", "text": "Simple Gifts\n\n\"Simple Gifts\" is a Shaker song written and composed in 1848, generally attributed to Elder Joseph Brackett from Alfred Shaker Village.\n\nThe tune was written in 1848. There are two conflicting narratives of Shaker origin as to the composer of the song. One account attributes the song to a \"Negro spirit\" heard at Canterbury, New Hampshire, which would make the song a \"gift song\" received by a Shaker from the spirit world. Alternatively, and more widely accepted, the song's composer is said to be Joseph Brackett (1797–1882) of Alfred, Maine. A lifelong resident of the state, he first joined the Shakers at Gorham when his father's farm helped to form the nucleus of a new Shaker settlement.\n\nThe song was largely unknown outside Shaker communities until Aaron Copland used its melody for the score of Martha Graham's ballet \"Appalachian Spring\", first performed in 1944. (Shakers once worshipped on Holy Mount, in the Massachusetts portion of the Appalachians). Copland used \"Simple Gifts\" a second time in 1950 in his first set of \"Old American Songs\" for voice and piano, which was later orchestrated.\n\nThese are the lyrics to his one-verse song:\n\n<poem>’Tis the gift to be simple, ’tis the gift to be free\nAnd when we find ourselves in the place just right,\nWhen true simplicity is gained,\nTo turn, turn will be our delight,\n\nSeveral Shaker manuscripts indicate that this is a “dancing song” or a “quick dance”. \"Turning\" is a common theme in Christian theology, but the references to \"turning\" in the last two lines have also been identified as dance instructions. When the traditional dance is performed properly, each dancer ends up where he or she began, \"come 'round right\".\n\nA manuscript of Mary Hazzard of the New Lebanon, New York, Shaker community records this original version of the melody:\nThe song resembles to a slight extent several repetitions of the opening measures of William Byrd's renaissance composition, \"The Barley Break\", which Byrd intended to imitate country children playing a folk game. Similarly, Brackett is claimed to have come up with the song as an imitation of what folk music sounds like.\n\nA somewhat similar musical theme arises also in a brass ensemble work \"Canzon per sonare no. 2\" by Giovanni Gabrieli (c.1555-1612).\n\nMany people have mistakenly believed that the tune of \"Simple Gifts\" was a traditional Celtic one but both the music and original lyrics are actually the compositions of Brackett. \"Simple Gifts\" has been adapted or arranged many times since by folksingers and composers.\n\nA well known version is by English songwriter Sydney Carter, who adapted the Shaker tune for his song \"Lord of the Dance\", first published in 1963.\n\nThe Carter lyrics were adapted, in ignorance of the actual origins, without authorization or acknowledgments by Ronan Hardiman for Michael Flatley's dance musical \"Lord of the Dance\", which opened in 1996. The melody is used at various points throughout the show, including the piece titled \"Lord of the Dance.\" Other adaptations of the lyrics by Carter have occurred in the widespread belief that they are traditional, and in the public domain.\n\n\n\nTwo additional, later non-Shaker verses exist for the song, as follows:\n\nAnd an additional alternative:\n\nAnother alternate verse:\n\nA Version Broadcast During Music and the Spoken Word\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799024", "title": "Lesley Stahl", "text": "Lesley Stahl\n\nLesley Rene Stahl (born December 16, 1941) is an American television journalist.\n\nShe has spent most of her career with CBS News, where she began as a producer in 1971. Since 1991, she has reported for CBS's \"60 Minutes\".\n\nStahl was born in 1941 to a wealthy Jewish family in Lynn, Massachusetts, and was raised in Swampscott, Massachusetts. She is the daughter of Dorothy J. (née Tishler), and Louis E. Stahl, a food company executive. She attended Wheaton College where she was an honors graduate, majoring in history.\n\nStahl began her television broadcasting career at Boston's original Channel 5, WHDH-TV, as a producer and on-air reporter. She joined CBS News in 1971, and became a correspondent in 1974. \"I was born on my 30th birthday,\" Stahl would later write about the experience. \"Everything up till then was prenatal.\" Stahl credits her CBS News hire to the Federal Communications Commission's 1972 inclusion of women in its affirmative action mandate: \"the television networks were scouring the country for women and blacks with any news experience at all. A friend in New York had called to tell me about a memo floating around CBS News mandating that 'the next reporter we hire will be a woman.'\" According to Stahl, Connie Chung and Bernard Shaw were \"the two other 'affirmative action babies' in what became known as the Class of '72.\" Stahl reflected in an interview on her early days at CBS how, on the night of the '72 Nixon-McGovern election returns, she found her on-air studio chair marked with masking tape, not with her name as with her colleagues, but with \"Female\". Stahl was the mentor of CBS news producer Susan Zirinsky.\nStahl's prominence grew after she covered Watergate. \"I found an apartment in the Watergate complex, moved all my stuff from Boston, and didn't miss a day of work. ... June 1972. Most of the reporters in our bureau were on the road, covering the presidential campaign. Thus, I was sent out to cover the arrest of some men who had broken into one of the buildings in the Watergate complex. That CBS let me, the newest hire, hold on to Watergate as an assignment was a measure of how unimportant the story seemed: ... I was the only television reporter covering the early court appearances. When the five Watergate burglars asked for a bail reduction, I got my first scoop. Unlike my competitors, I was able to identify them. The next time the cameraman listened when I said, 'Roll! That's them!' And so CBS was the only network to get pictures of the burglars. I was a hero at the bureau.\"\n\nShe went on to become White House correspondent during the presidencies of Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. At the Republican Convention of 1980, she broke the news on CBS that Reagan's negotiations with ex-President Gerald Ford had broken down and the answer to the question of who would be vice-presidential nominee was: \"It's Bush! Yes, it's Bush!\" George H. W. Bush had been standing perhaps not far away, largely off by himself, looking discouraged because he was sure he wasn't going to be chosen.\n\nStahl was the moderator of \"Face the Nation\" between September 1983 and May 1991. In addition, she hosted \"48 Hours Investigates\" from 2002 to 2004. In 2002, Stahl made headlines when Al Gore appeared on \"60 Minutes\" and revealed for the first time that he would not run for president again in 2004. When Katie Couric was hired, CBS News asked Stahl to reduce her salary by $500,000 to accommodate Couric's salary, bringing her salary down to $1.8 million. In October 2007 Nicolas Sarkozy, President of France, stood up and walked away from an interview with Stahl because she asked him about his relationship with his soon-to-be estranged wife, Cécilia.\n\nIn 1998, she appeared on the NBC sitcom \"Frasier\", playing herself in the episode \"Desperately Seeking Closure\". In 2014, she served as a correspondent for \"Years of Living Dangerously\", a documentary show about climate change.\n\nStahl has written two books, the first of which, \"Reporting Live\", was published in 1999:\n\nI had decided by August 1989, in my 48th year, that I had already had the best day of my life. ... Then we went to Rwanda to see the mountain gorillas, Dian Fossey's gorillas in the mist. ... After two and a half hours ... there they were: two baby gorillas frolicking like any four-year-olds. We snapped and stared. We were right there, \"in\" their lives, in the middle of their open-air house. And then the silverback, the patriarch, seemed to welcome us, as three females kept grooming him. ... We spent one hour in their world, watching them tumble and wrestle, nurse their babies, swing in the trees, forage for food—vines, leaves, berries— ... so close that a female reached out to touch me. When I went to reciprocate, the guide hit my arm with a stick. \"\"Non, madame. C'est inderdit.\"\" ... What I decided that day with the gorillas in Rwanda was that the best day of your life may not have happened yet. No matter what you think.\n\nHer second book, \"Becoming Grandma: The Joys and Science of the New Grandparenting\", which chronicles her own experiences with her grandchildren, was published in 2016.\n\nShe received a Doctorate of Humane Letters honoris causa from Colgate University in 2008 and a Doctorate of Humane Letters \"honoris causa\" from Loyola College in Maryland in 2008.\n\nLesley Stahl was a founding member in 2008, along with Liz Smith, Mary Wells Lawrence, and Joni Evans, of wowOwow.com, a website for \"women over 40\" to talk about culture, politics, and gossip. By the end of 2010 it had merged into PureWow, a Web site aimed at younger women.\n\nShe is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nStahl is on the Board of Selectors of Jefferson Awards for Public Service.\n\n\nIn 1977, Stahl married author Aaron Latham; they have a daughter.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799027", "title": "Blanche II of Navarre", "text": "Blanche II of Navarre\n\nBlanche II () (9 June 1424 – 2 December 1464), titular queen of Navarre, was the daughter of John II of Aragon and Blanche I of Navarre. She was also Princess of Asturias by marriage.\n\nBlanche was born on 9 June 1424 in Olite, Navarre.\n\nIn 1427, she, her brother Charles, and her sister Eleanor were proclaimed the rightful heirs of the kingdom of Navarre. Blanche was promised to the heir of Castile in the peace treaty between Navarre and Castile in 1436. She married Henry IV of Castile in 1440. The marriage was reputedly never consummated.\n\nIn 1453, after thirteen years, Henry sought the annulment of the marriage. An official examination confirmed the virginity of Blanche. A divorce was granted by the Pope on the grounds that some \"witchcraft\" had prevented Henry from consummating the marriage. After this, Blanche was sent home to Navarre, where she was imprisoned by her family: from 1462, she was under the custody of her sister. She remained childless throughout her life.\n\nAfter the death of her brother in 1461, some dissatisfied Navarrese elements and some of the anti-Aragonese party regarded Blanche as the rightful monarch, as they had regarded Charles. They proclaimed her queen. She would have thus become Blanche II of Navarre, had not her father (who wanted to keep the government of Navarre) already had her incarcerated and thus not capable to act.\n\nJohn tried to marry her to Charles, Duke of Berry, and younger brother of Louis XI of France to make an alliance, but Blanche refused, and her act irritated her father. In 1464, she came back to Pamplona with the help of its bishop Nicolas de Etchabarri, who was murdered shortly after, in order to attend the Courts of Navarre.\n\nShe died by poison in Orthez less than a month later. Both her father and her sister Eleanor are suggested to have been responsible for her death. Upon her death, her rights to Navarre were inherited by her next sister, Eleanor of Aragon, Countess of Foix, who however was their father's ally and supporter, and did not press her own claims until his death in 1479.\n"}
{"id": "1799032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799032", "title": "Raninoida", "text": "Raninoida\n\nRaninoida is a taxonomic section of the crabs, containing a single superfamily, Raninoidea. This group of crabs is unlike most, with the abdomen not being folded under the thorax. It comprises 46 extant species, and nearly 200 species known only from fossils.\n"}
{"id": "1799034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799034", "title": "International Chamber Music Festival of Cervo", "text": "International Chamber Music Festival of Cervo\n\nThe International Chamber Music Festival of Cervo was inaugurated in 1964, the brainchild of the renowned Hungarian violinist Sandor Vegh. It is held every July and August in the picturesque church square of Cervo, a small, ancient town in Liguria, Italy.\n\nAmong the world-class stars who have performed here are Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli, Sviatoslav Richter, Wilhelm Kempff, Maurizio Pollini, Yehudi Menuhin, Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, Martha Argerich, Uto Ughi, Mozarteum Camerata, Ivo Pogorelić, Andras Schiff, Luciano Berio, F. P. Zimmermann, François-Joël Thiollier, Paul Badura-Skoda, the King's Singers, Rudolf Buchbinder, Cyprien Katsaris, Joseph Silverstein, Pietro De Maria, Viktoria Mullova, Ulf Hoelscher, David Geringas, Arnulf von Arnim, Timothy Park, Monika Leskovar, Boris Andrianov, Salvatore Accardo, Fazil Say and Hyun-Sun Kim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1799036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799036", "title": "Steven Bradbury", "text": "Steven Bradbury\n\nSteven John Bradbury (born 14 October 1973) is an Australian former short track speed skater and four-time Olympian. He won the 1,000 m event at the 2002 Winter Olympics after all of his opponents were involved in a last corner pile-up. He was the first athlete from the Southern Hemisphere and Australia to win a Winter Olympic gold medal and was also part of the short track relay team that won Australia's first Winter Olympic medal, a bronze in 1994.\n\nIn 1991, Bradbury was part of the Australian quartet that won the 5,000 m relay at the World Championships in Sydney. It was the first time Australia had won a World Championship in a winter sport.\n\nAustralia's short track relay team went into the 1992 Winter Olympics as world champions, but the team crashed in the semi-finals. The Australians were in third place when Richard Nizielski lost his footing; they finished fourth and failed to reach the final. Bradbury was unable to help, as he had been named as the reserve for the team and was sitting on the bench. He was not selected for any individual events.\n\nAt the 1994 Winter Olympics in Norway, Bradbury was part of the short track relay team that won Australia's first Winter Olympic medal, a bronze. They scraped into the four-team final after edging out Japan and New Zealand to finish second in their semi-final. They adopted a plan of staying on their feet as first priority, and remaining undisqualified and beating at least one of the other three finalists. During the race, the Canadians fell and lost significant time, meaning that Australia would win their first medal if they raced conservatively and avoided a crash. Late in the race, Nizielski was fighting with his American counterpart for track position for the silver medal, but took the safe option and yielded, mindful of the lost opportunity following the crash in Albertville. Thus Bradbury, Nizielski, Andrew Murtha and Kieran Hansen became Australia's first Winter Olympics medallists.\n\nBradbury was also entered in the 500 m and 1,000 m individual events and was the favourite going into the latter. In the first event, Bradbury came second in his heat in a time of 45.43 s and then won his quarterfinal in a time of 44.18 s to qualify for the semifinal. In the semifinal, Bradbury was knocked over by a rival and he limped home fourth, in a time of 1 m 03.51 s and was eliminated. He came fourth in the B final and was classified eighth overall out of 31 competitors. In the 1,000 m event, Bradbury fell in his heat after being illegally pushed by a competitor who was later disqualified. He came home in 2 m 01.89 s, more than 30 s off the leaders' pace and was eliminated. Nevertheless, because of the high rate of accidents, Bradbury came 24th out of 31 competitors.\n\nDuring a 1994 World Cup event in Montreal, another skater's blade sliced through Bradbury's right thigh after a collision; it cut through to the other side and he lost four litres of blood. Bradbury's heart rate had been up near 200 at the end of the race and this meant that blood was being pumped out fast. All four of his quadriceps muscles had been sliced through and Bradbury thought that if he lost consciousness, he would die. He needed 111 stitches and could not move for three weeks. His leg needed 18 months before it was back to full strength.\n\nBradbury, Nizielski and Kieran Hansen, three of the quartet that won Australia's maiden medal in 1994, returned for the 1998 Winter Olympics in Japan with new teammate Richard Goerlitz. There were hopes that they could repeat their Lillehammer performance. However, in their qualifying race, they placed third in a time of 7 m 11.691 s and missed the final by one place, even though they had been two seconds faster than their medal-winning performance of 1994. They completed the course four seconds slower in the B final and came last in the race, and thus last out of eight teams overall.\n\nBradbury was again regarded as a medal contender in the individual events, but was impeded in collisions with other racers in both the 500 m and 1,000 m events. He came third in the heats of both races, posting times of 43.766 s and 1 m 33.108 s in each race. Neither of these times were fast enough to advance him to the quarterfinals and he came 19th and 21st out of 30 competitors respectively.\n\nIn September 2000, Bradbury broke his neck in a training accident. Another skater fell in front of him and Bradbury tried to jump over him, but instead clipped him and tripped head first into the barriers. As a result, Bradbury fractured his C4 and C5 vertebrae. He spent a month and a half in a halo brace, and needed four pins to be inserted in his skull and screws and plates bolted into his back and chest. Doctors told Bradbury that he would not be able to take to the ice again, but he was determined to reach another Olympics. He wanted redemption after the crashes in the individual races in 1994 and 1998, even though he conceded that he would be past his best in terms of challenging for the medals.\n\nBradbury took an unlikely gold medal win in the men's short track 1000 metres event at the Salt Lake City 2002 Winter Olympic Games. He won his heat convincingly in the 1,000 m, posting a time of 1:30.956. However, in the quarter-finals, Bradbury was allocated to the same race as Apolo Anton Ohno, the favourite from the host nation, and Marc Gagnon of Canada, the defending world champion. Only the top two finishers from each race would proceed to the semifinals. Bradbury finished third in his race and thought himself to be eliminated, but Gagnon was disqualified for obstructing another racer, allowing the Australian to advance to the semi-finals.\n\nAfter consulting his national coach Ann Zhang, Bradbury's strategy from the semi-final onwards was to cruise behind his opponents and hope that they crashed, as he could not match their pace. His reasoning was that risk-taking by the favourites could cause a collision due to a racing incident, and if two or more skaters fell, the remaining three would all get medals, and that as he was slower than his opponents, trying to challenge them directly would only increase his own chances of falling. Bradbury said that he was satisfied with his result, and felt that as the second-oldest competitor in the field, he was not able to match his opponents in four races on the same night.\n\nIn his semi-final race, Bradbury was in last place, well off the pace of the medal favourites. However, defending champion Kim Dong-sung of South Korea, multiple Olympic medallist Li Jiajun of China and Mathieu Turcotte of Canada all crashed, paving the way for Bradbury to take first place and advancing him through to the final.\n\nIn the final, Bradbury was again well off the pace when all four of his competitors (Ohno, Ahn Hyun-Soo, Li and Turcotte) crashed out at the final corner while jostling for the gold medal. This allowed Bradbury, who was around 15 m behind with only 50 m to go, to avoid the pile-up and take the victory. Bradbury became the first person from a southern hemisphere country to win a Winter Olympic event. After a period of delay, the judges upheld the result and did not order a re-race, confirming Bradbury's victory.\n\nIn an interview after winning his gold, referring to his two career- and life-threatening accidents, Bradbury said \"Obviously I wasn't the fastest skater. I don't think I'll take the medal as the minute-and-a-half of the race I actually won. I'll take it as the last decade of the hard slog I put in.\" He also said \"I was the oldest bloke in the field and I knew that, skating four races back to back, I wasn't going to have any petrol left in the tank. So there was no point in getting there and mixing it up because I was going to be in last place anyway. So (I figured) I might as well stay out of the way and be in last place and hope that some people get tangled up.\"\n\nHe later said that he never expected all of his opponents to fall, but added that he felt that the other four racers were under extreme pressure and might have over-attacked and taken too many risks. Bradbury cited the host nation pressure on Ohno, who was expected to win all four of his events. Li, much like Bradbury himself, had won Olympic medals but was yet to take a gold medal, Turcotte only had one individual event, and Ahn had been the form racer at the Olympics so far. Bradbury felt that none would be willing to settle for less than gold and that as a result, they might collide.\n\nBradbury had three other events at the 2002 Winter Olympics. In the relay event, the Australians came third in their heat in a time of 7:19.177 and failed to make the final. They came second in the B final and finished sixth out of seven teams. In the 1,500 m event, Bradbury came third in his heat, before placing fourth in the semi-final and being eliminated. He then came fifth in the B final to finish 10th out of 29 entrants. He was unable to maintain his speed through the competition; after posting a time of 2:22.632 in the heats, Bradbury slowed by three seconds in each of his next two races. In the 500 m event, Bradbury came second in his heat and was eliminated after coming third in his quarter-final. He finished 14th out of 31 overall.\n\nThe unlikely win turned Bradbury into something of a folk hero, comparable to ski jumper Eddie \"The Eagle\" Edwards and the 1988 Jamaican bobsleigh team. Many newspapers hailed Bradbury and held him as an example of the value of an underdog never giving up, regardless of the odds against them. The unusual manner of his victory made news across the world. However, some unhappy American commentators also made fun of the race and used it to criticise what they perceived as a lack of merit required to win a short track event. \"USA Today\" said \"The first winter gold medal in the history of Australia fell out of the sky like a bagged goose. He looked like the tortoise behind four hares\", while the \"Boston Globe\" said that \"multiple crashes that allow the wrong person to win are part of the deal\".\n\nBradbury's feat has entered the Australian colloquial vernacular in the phrase \"doing a Bradbury\", or \"Bradburied\" (as a verb) meaning an unexpected or unusual success. Bradbury's triumph was celebrated by Australia Post issuing a 45-cent stamp of him, which followed on from their issuing stamps of Australian gold medallists at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Bradbury's stamp was issued on 20 February 2002, four days after his victory. He received $20,000 for the use of his image. He said the fee \"should get me a car. I haven’t had a car for a long time\", and later described having a stamp issued as \"a great honour\". Before the Olympics, Bradbury had needed to borrow $1,000 from his parents to fix his old car in order to go to training. Bradbury was courted for sponsorship after his triumph and was interviewed on many American television shows. He had previously supported himself by making skating boots in a backyard workshop; his Revolutionary Boot Company supplied Ohno with free boots and Bradbury had asked Ohno to endorse his boots when he won in Salt Lake City, not thinking that he would defeat the American.\n\nBradbury retired after the 2002 Olympics. He commentated at the 2006 Winter Olympics,\nand for Channel Nine and Foxtel at the 2010 Winter Olympics.\nIn 2005 Bradbury was a contestant in the second series of the Australian dancing show \"Dancing with the Stars\".\n\nIn 2019, Bradbury competed in the sixth season of \"Australian Survivor\". He was eliminated on Day 12 and finished in 20th place.\n\nAfter retiring from skating, Bradbury participated in competitive motor racing. After placing fourth in the 2005 Australian Grand Prix Celebrity Race, he competed in Queensland state-level Formula Vee championship events in 2006 and 2007, placing sixth in both years. In 2007, he raced in the National Formula Vee Championships at Morgan Park Raceway placing 15th.\n\nIn 2009, Bradbury competed in the Australian Mini Challenge at the Tasmanian round and 2010 at Queensland Raceway as their Uber Star. He also made a one-off appearance in the V8 Ute Series at Adelaide in March 2010, driving with regular Ute racer Jason Gomersall on the support program of the 2010 Clipsal 500.\n\nIn 2007, Bradbury was awarded a Medal of the Order of Australia for his Olympic gold medal win. He was also inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in that year.\n\nIn 2009, Bradbury was inducted into the Queensland Sport Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799037", "title": "On Photography", "text": "On Photography\n\nOn Photography is a 1977 collection of essays by Susan Sontag. It originally appeared as a series of essays in the \"New York Review of Books\" between 1973 and 1977.\n\nIn the book, Sontag expresses her views on the history and present-day role of photography in capitalist societies as of the 1970s. Sontag discusses many examples of modern photography. Among these, she contrasts Diane Arbus's work with that of Depression-era documentary photography commissioned by the Farm Security Administration.\n\nShe also explores the history of American photography in relation to the idealistic notions of America put forth by Walt Whitman and traces these ideas through to the increasingly cynical aesthetic notions of the 1970s, particularly in relation to Arbus and Andy Warhol.\n\nSontag argues that the proliferation of photographic images had begun to establish within people a \"chronic voyeuristic relation\" to the world around them. Among the consequences of photography is that the meaning of all events is leveled and made equal. This idea did not originate with Sontag, who often synthesized European cultural thinkers with her particular eye toward the United States.\n\nAs she argues, perhaps originally with regard to photography, the medium fostered an attitude of anti-intervention. Sontag says that the individual who seeks to record cannot intervene, and that the person who intervenes cannot then faithfully record, for the two aims contradict each other. In this context, she discusses in some depth the relationship of photography to politics.\n\n\"On Photography\" won the National Book Critics Circle Award for 1977 and was selected among the top 20 books of 1977 by the editors of the \"New York Times Book Review.\"\n\nIn 1977, William H. Gass, writing in \"The New York Times,\" said the book \"shall surely stand near the beginning of all our thoughts upon the subject\" of photography.\n\nIn a 1998 appraisal of the work, Michael Starenko, wrote in \"Afterimage\" that \"\"On Photography\" has become so deeply absorbed into this discourse that Sontag's claims about photography, as well as her mode of argument, have become part of the rhetorical 'tool kit' that photography theorists and critics carry around in their heads.\" He added that \"no other photography book, not even The Family of Man (1955), which sold four million copies before finally going out of print in 1978, received a wider range of press coverage than On Photography.\" \n\nSontag's work is literary and polemical rather than academic. It includes no bibliography, and few notes. There is little sustained analysis of the work of any particular photographer and is not in any sense a research project as often written by doctoral students. For example, in her discussion of \"The Family of Man\" exhibition she quotes almost word-for-word Roland Barthes' critique in his book \"Mythologies\", without acknowledgement; \"By purporting to show that individuals are born, work, laugh, and die everywhere in the same way, \"The Family of Man\" denies the determining weight of history - of genuine and historically embedded differences, injustices, and conflicts.\" Many of the reviews from the world of art photography that followed \"On Photography\" at the time of its publication were skeptical and often hostile, such as those of Colin L. Westerbeck and Michael Lesy.\n\nIn 2003, Sontag published a partial refutation of the opinions she espoused in \"On Photography\" in her book \"Regarding the Pain of Others\". This book may be considered as a postscript or addition to \"On Photography.\" Sontag's publishing history includes a similar sequence with regard to her work \"Illness as Metaphor\" from the 1970s and \"AIDS and Its Metaphors\" a decade later, which included an expansion of ideas contained in the earlier work.\n\n\nEarlier versions of these essays appeared in \"The New York Review of Books\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1799042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799042", "title": "Division of Wentworth", "text": "Division of Wentworth\n\nThe Division of Wentworth is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. \n\nThe division was proclaimed in 1900 and was one of the original 65 divisions contested at the first federal election. The division is named after William Charles Wentworth (1790–1872), an Australian explorer and statesman. In 1813 he accompanied Blaxland and Lawson on their crossing of the Blue Mountains.\n\nHistorically considered a safe seat for the Liberal Party of Australia, Wentworth is one of only two original federation divisions in New South Wales, along with the Division of North Sydney, which have never been held by the Australian Labor Party, though Labor candidate Jessie Street came within 1.6 percent of winning Wentworth at the 1943 election landslide. The electorate is the nation's wealthiest, contains the nation's largest Jewish population and contains the nation's fifth-largest number of same-sex couples.\n\nIts most prominent members have included Eric Harrison, the inaugural Deputy of the Liberal Party; John Hewson and Malcolm Turnbull - both of whom served as Opposition Leaders whilst in their second terms as the MP for Wentworth. Turnbull would go on to become Prime Minister of Australia from September 2015 until August 2018.\n\nIn August 2018, a challenge by Peter Dutton led to two Liberal leadership spills. Following the second spill on 24 August 2018, Treasurer Scott Morrison defeated Dutton in a leadership ballot. Turnbull did not nominate as a candidate, and immediately resigned as Prime Minister. On 31 August 2018 Turnbull resigned from Parliament, triggering the 2018 Wentworth by-election on 20 October 2018, which was won by independent candidate Kerryn Phelps. Phelps lost her seat to Dave Sharma in a rematch on 18 May 2019.\n\nWentworth is the second-smallest geographical electoral division in the Parliament with an area of just , covering Woolloomooloo along the southern shore of Sydney Harbour to Watsons Bay and down the coast to Clovelly—an area largely coextensive with Sydney's Eastern Suburbs. The western boundary runs along Oxford Street, Flinders Street and South Dowling Street, then eastward along Alison Road to Randwick Racecourse and Clovelly Beach. It includes the suburbs of Bellevue Hill, Ben Buckler, Bondi, Bondi Beach, Bondi Junction, Bronte, Centennial Park, Darling Point, Double Bay, Dover Heights, Edgecliff, Moore Park, North Bondi, Paddington, Point Piper, Queens Park, Rose Bay, Rushcutters Bay, Tamarama, Vaucluse, Watsons Bay, Waverley, and Woollahra; as well as parts of Clovelly, Darlinghurst, East Sydney, Elizabeth Bay, Kings Cross, Potts Point, and Randwick.\n\n"}
{"id": "1799052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799052", "title": "Max von Essen", "text": "Max von Essen\n\nMax von Essen (born January 11, 1974) is an American stage and screen actor, and vocalist.\n\nRaised on Long Island, von Essen is a graduate of South Side High School in Rockville Centre, New York. He attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and after graduation toured with Liza Minnelli. He is a member of the Von Essen family, who are part of the German and Swedish nobility. A son of Rita and Thomas Von Essen, who was the New York City Fire Commissioner during the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, he is the youngest of four children. He is openly gay.\n\nHe toured Europe in \"West Side Story\" and was a cast member of the U.S. national tour of \"Chicago\". He made his Broadway debut in \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" in 2000 as Disciple and Jesus of Nazareth understudy. He appeared in \"Les Misérables\" on Broadway as the replacement for Fauchelevent and other roles, and starred in \"Dance of the Vampires\" alongside Michael Crawford in 2002. He played the role of student revolutionary leader Enjolras (replacement) in the \"Les Misérables\" Broadway revival in 2006 at the Broadhurst Theater.\n\nIn 2006, he was a soloist at the biggest Andrew Lloyd Webber musical gala to date, held in Tallinn, Estonia. He performed in the national tour of \"Xanadu\" as \"Sonny\" in 2008 and in the Roundabout Theater Company Off-Broadway production of Maury Yeston's \"Death Takes a Holiday\" at the Laura Pels Theatre in 2011. In 2015, von Essen played the role of Parisian aristocrat Henri in the Broadway production of \"An American in Paris\", for which he received a Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Musical nomination.\n\nSource:Playbill Vault\n\nSource: IBDB\n"}
{"id": "1799053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799053", "title": "David Burtka", "text": "David Burtka\n\nDavid Michael Burtka (born May 29, 1975) is an American actor and professional chef. He is known for his acting roles in theatre and television shows such as \"How I Met Your Mother\" and \"The Play About the Baby\". After his role on \"How I Met Your Mother\", Burtka gained media attention for dating Neil Patrick Harris, whom he later married in 2014.\n\nBurtka was born in Dearborn, Michigan, the son of Deborah A. Zajas (died 2008) and Daniel Burtka. He is of Polish descent. He grew up in Canton, Michigan, and graduated from Salem High School in 1993. He trained in acting at Interlochen Center for the Arts, obtained his Bachelor of Fine Arts from the University of Michigan and had further training at the William Esper Studios.\n\nBurtka made his television debut in 2002 with a guest role on \"The West Wing;\" this was followed by guest appearances on \"Crossing Jordan.\"\n\nBurtka made his Broadway debut as Tulsa in the 2003 revival of \",\" which starred Bernadette Peters. He played The Boy in the American premiere of Edward Albee's \"The Play About the Baby,\" for which he won the 2001 Clarence Derwent Award for most promising male performer.\n\nIn 2004, Burtka originated the role of Matt in the musical \"The Opposite of Sex\" and reprised the role in the work's East Coast premiere in the summer of 2006.\n\nBurtka appeared in seven episodes of \"How I Met Your Mother;\" in all seven such installments, he played \"Scooter,\" the former high school boyfriend of Lily (Alyson Hannigan), who still had not gotten over their breakup. Burtka made a cameo appearance, in \"A Very Harold & Kumar 3D Christmas,\" as himself; in it, he also shared a scene with Neil Patrick Harris, in a part that was much like his character from \"How I Met Your Mother.\"\n\nBurtka starred in Osiris Entertainment's 2013 film \"Annie and the Gypsy,\" and had a featured role in the 2014 film \"Dance Off.\" \n\nBurtka returned to Broadway in a comedy play, which David Hyde Pierce directed, titled \"It Shoulda Been You.\" In the play, staged in late April 2015, he assumed the role of a Catholic fiancé of a Jewish bride, who was played by Sierra Boggess, whose wedding day is disrupted when her ex-boyfriend shows up at the wedding. Additional cast members included Tyne Daly and Harriet Harris.\n\nSix months after Burtka's first \"How I Met Your Mother\" appearance, allegations arose that the actor had received the part because of a romantic relationship with one of the show's stars, actor Neil Patrick Harris. Speculation around this story eventually led Harris to acknowledge publicly that he himself was gay in a cover story in \"People Weekly\" Magazine. Burtka made no public response to the story, though later Harris stated that he and Burtka were moving in together.\n\nBurtka and Harris attended the Emmy Awards in September 2007 as an openly acknowledged couple for the first time, an appearance which Harris discussed on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show.\"\n\nBurtka's mother died of cancer in May 2008.\n\nOn February 4, 2009, Burtka and Harris appeared for the first time on stage together, singing a duet from \"Rent\" at a benefit for The LGBT Community Center in New York. The two actors had been together since April 2004. Harris customarily referred to Burtka as \"my better half\" and \"an amazing chef.\" Burtka and Harris became parents to fraternal twins Gideon Scott and Harper Grace, both of whom were born in October 2010, via a surrogate mother.\nBurtka, though not the biological father of his ex Lane Janger's children, who had also been born via surrogate, remained close to them over the years.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Marriage Equality Act in New York on June 24, 2011, Burtka and Harris announced their engagement, stating that they had proposed to each other five years earlier but had kept the engagement secret until same-sex marriage became legal in their state.\n\nAccording to Harris, Burtka quit acting full-time to become a professional chef. He graduated from Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts Pasadena in the summer of 2009; afterwards, he began running a Los Angeles catering company which he called \"Gourmet M.D.\" Burtka did continue to act, including in \"It Shoulda Been You\" on Broadway in 2015.\n\nBurtka's first cookbook, \"Life is a Party\", a collection of recipes and tips on entertaining, was published in April 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799075", "title": "Back spinning", "text": "Back spinning\n\nBack spinning describes the act of manually manipulating a vinyl record (currently playing on a turntable), using enough force to cause the record to spin backward (despite the rotation of the platter beneath it). It is often used in DJing; many DJs use specialty slipmats so that friction will be reduced between the record and the platter. Back spinning is used to \"rewind\" the sound on a record to a previous point in the audio, to slip cue or cut music mixed live by a DJ, or in beat juggling (see: turntablism).\n\nUsually, the sound of a backspin is a shrill, reversed version of the audio being bypassed. Since the sound easily stands out against other forms of music or ambient noise due to its uniqueness, it is usually muted by creative use of a DJ mixer. However, the sound is sometimes used as a sound effect, especially in its attachment to DJs and surrounding cultures such as hip hop.\n"}
{"id": "1799076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799076", "title": "Pecker (film)", "text": "Pecker (film)\n\nPecker is a 1998 American comedy-drama film written and directed by John Waters. Like all Waters' films, it was filmed and set in Baltimore; this film was set in the Hampden neighborhood.\n\nThe film, starring Edward Furlong, examines the rise to fame and potential fortune of a budding photographer. Co-starring Christina Ricci, Lili Taylor, Mary Kay Place, Martha Plimpton, Brendan Sexton III, and Bess Armstrong, the film received mixed reviews from critics and was a commercial failure, grossing over $2 million from a $6 million budget.\n\nIn a Baltimore neighborhood known for having the thickest local accent, Pecker is an unassuming 18-year-old who works in a sandwich shop and takes photos of his loving, but peculiar family and friends on the side. Pecker, so named for his childhood habit of \"pecking\" at his food, stumbles into fame when his work is \"discovered\" by a savvy New York art dealer, Rorey Wheeler. Pecker's pictures, taken with a cheap Canon Canonet 28, are grainy, out-of-focus studies of unglamorous subjects, but they strike a chord with New York art collectors.\n\nUnfortunately, instant over-exposure has its downside. Rorey's efforts to turn Pecker into an art sensation threaten to ruin the low-key lifestyle that was his inspiration. He abandons his trusty old rangefinder camera for a new, full-featured Nikon N50. Pecker finds that his best friend, Matt, can't shoplift anymore now that Pecker's photographs have increased his visibility. Shelley, Pecker's obsessive girlfriend who runs a laundromat, seems especially distressed when the press dub her a \"stain goddess\" and mistake her good-natured \"pin-up\" poses for pornographic come-ons. \n\nWhen his family is dubbed \"culturally challenged\" by an overzealous critic, they begin to feel the uncomfortable glare of stardom. Pecker's mother Joyce, is no longer free to dispense fashion tips to the homeless clientele at her thrift shop. Pecker's grandmother, Memama, endures public ridicule when her experience with a talking statue of the Virgin Mary is exposed on the cover of a national art magazine. Tina, Pecker's older sister, is fired from her job emceeing go-go dancing at a gay bar because Pecker's edgy photographs chronicle the sex practices of the club's patrons. Even Little Chrissy, his six-year-old sister, feels the pressure of celebrity when her eating disorder is exposed, bringing unwanted attention from nosy child welfare agencies, and she's mistakenly diagnosed with Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and prescribed Ritalin.\n\nAfter Pecker's new-found fame disrupts the lives of his family and friends, Pecker turns the tables on the art world by refusing to participate in a scheduled show at the Whitney Museum of Art. Instead, he forces New York art collectors to come to Baltimore to see his latest photographs, which portray the same people who disparaged his family in an unflattering light, one photo shows Lynn Wentworth adjusting her breasts in a mirror.\n\nPecker is then asked what he plans to do next. He replies that he would like to direct a film.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 52% based on reviews from 46 critics. On Metacritic it has a score of 66 out of 100 based on 24 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nDescribing it as \"John Waters' first stab at making a mainstream movie,\" Edvins Beitiks' review in \"The San Francisco Examiner\" said it \"starts out well and winds up no worse than most of the stuff that comes out of Hollywood\". In his review for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Roger Ebert noted a \"tension between the gentler new Waters and his anarchic past. In the scenes in the male strip bar, for example, we keep waiting for Waters to break loose and shock us, and he never does, except with a few awkward language choices. The miraculous statue of Mary could have provided comic possibilities, but doesn't.\"\nPeter Stack of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote that \"Pecker\" is \"never truly funny, but it's an amusing novelty, gaining strength from smart characterizations and sly cogency about the way people are exploited under the limelight of celebrity.\"\n\nThe soundtrack was released on September 22, 1998 by New Line Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799078", "title": "Lake Sumner", "text": "Lake Sumner\n\nLake Sumner, known as \"Hokakura\" in Māori, is a lake situated 100 km northwest of Christchurch in the Canterbury region of New Zealand. The lake is located in the Lake Sumner Forest Park; the Hurunui River and several other lakes (Loch Katrine, Lake Sheppard, Lake Taylor and Lake Mason) also lie within the park.\n\nThe Lake Sumner region is a popular area for hunting, tramping, trout fishing, whitewater kayaking, and mountainbiking. Several Department of Conservation tramping huts in the region make it a common destination for overnight trips; however, the area's comparatively remote location and difficult vehicle access mean it is seldom crowded.\n\n"}
{"id": "1799096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799096", "title": "Terrance Shaw", "text": "Terrance Shaw\n\nTerrance Bernard Shaw (born January 11, 1973) is an American football cornerback. He was born in Marshall, Texas. \n\nShaw attended Marshall High School in Marshall, Texas and was a letterman in football. In football, as a senior he was a first-team All-District selection and a first-team All-Region selection, and led his team to a Texas High School Football State Title.\n\nShaw attended Stephen F. Austin State University and was a Business major and a four-year letterman in football. In football, as a senior, he was a first-team Division I-AA All-American and a first-team All-Southland Conference selection. As a junior, he garnered 67 tackles and was an All-Conference Honorable Mention selection. As a sophomore, he started the first five games, before tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee.\n\nShaw is a member of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity. He became a member while his time at Stephen F. Austin State University.\n\nShaw was selected in the second round of the 1995 NFL Draft by the San Diego Chargers. During his career he played as a cornerback for the San Diego Chargers, Miami Dolphins, Minnesota Vikings, New England Patriots, and Oakland Raiders in the United States National Football League (NFL). On February 3, 2002 in the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana before a packed house of almost 73,000, Shaw helped the Patriots beat the St. Louis Rams in Super Bowl XXXVI in 2001. Shaw also played in Super Bowl XXXVII with the Oakland Raiders in 2002. In 2000, Shaw was a part of the Miami Dolphins secondary was ranked #1 in the NFL and that secondary led the league with 25 picks. Shaw had six playoff appearances in a ten-year career.\n\nHe is married to Shawneeque Watkins Shaw and they have nine children - a daughter Ashley and sons Terrance Jr., Teris, Thomas, Trysten, Tierney, Trinity, Tylend, and daughter Timberlynd.\n\nHe coaches his sons youth league select football team, the SGP Rams.\n"}
