{"id": "1816156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816156", "title": "Catalytic reforming", "text": "Catalytic reforming\n\nCatalytic reforming is a chemical process used to convert petroleum refinery naphthas distilled from crude oil (typically having low octane ratings) into high-octane liquid products called reformates, which are premium blending stocks for high-octane gasoline. The process converts low-octane linear hydrocarbons (paraffins) into branched alkanes (isoparaffins) and cyclic naphthenes, which are then partially dehydrogenated to produce high-octane aromatic hydrocarbons. The dehydrogenation also produces significant amounts of byproduct hydrogen gas, which is fed into other refinery processes such as hydrocracking. A side reaction is hydrogenolysis, which produces light hydrocarbons of lower value, such as methane, ethane, propane and butanes.\nIn addition to a gasoline blending stock, reformate is the main source of aromatic bulk chemicals such as benzene, toluene, xylene and ethylbenzene which have diverse uses, most importantly as raw materials for conversion into plastics. However, the benzene content of reformate makes it carcinogenic, which has led to governmental regulations effectively requiring further processing to reduce its benzene content.\n\nThis process is quite different from and not to be confused with the catalytic steam reforming process used industrially to produce products such as hydrogen, ammonia, and methanol from natural gas, naphtha or other petroleum-derived feedstocks. Nor is this process to be confused with various other catalytic reforming processes that use methanol or biomass-derived feedstocks to produce hydrogen for fuel cells or other uses.\n\nIn the 1940s, Vladimir Haensel, a research chemist working for Universal Oil Products (UOP), developed a catalytic reforming process using a catalyst containing platinum. Haensel's process was subsequently commercialized by UOP in 1949 for producing a high octane gasoline from low octane naphthas and the UOP process become known as the Platforming process. The first Platforming unit was built in 1949 at the refinery of the Old Dutch Refining Company in Muskegon, Michigan.\n\nIn the years since then, many other versions of the process have been developed by some of the major oil companies and other organizations. Today, the large majority of gasoline produced worldwide is derived from the catalytic reforming process.\n\nTo name a few of the other catalytic reforming versions that were developed, all of which utilized a platinum and/or a rhenium catalyst:\n\n\nBefore describing the reaction chemistry of the catalytic reforming process as used in petroleum refineries, the typical naphthas used as catalytic reforming feedstocks will be discussed.\n\nA petroleum refinery includes many unit operations and unit processes. The first unit operation in a refinery is the continuous distillation of the petroleum crude oil being refined. The overhead liquid distillate is called naphtha and will become a major component of the refinery's gasoline (petrol) product after it is further processed through a catalytic hydrodesulfurizer to remove sulfur-containing hydrocarbons and a catalytic reformer to reform its hydrocarbon molecules into more complex molecules with a higher octane rating value. The naphtha is a mixture of very many different hydrocarbon compounds. It has an initial boiling point of about 35 °C and a final boiling point of about 200 °C, and it contains paraffin, naphthene (cyclic paraffins) and aromatic hydrocarbons ranging from those containing 6 carbon atoms to those containing about 10 or 11 carbon atoms.\n\nThe naphtha from the crude oil distillation is often further distilled to produce a \"light\" naphtha containing most (but not all) of the hydrocarbons with 6 or fewer carbon atoms and a \"heavy\" naphtha containing most (but not all) of the hydrocarbons with more than 6 carbon atoms. The heavy naphtha has an initial boiling point of about 140 to 150 °C and a final boiling point of about 190 to 205 °C. The naphthas derived from the distillation of crude oils are referred to as \"straight-run\" naphthas.\n\nIt is the straight-run heavy naphtha that is usually processed in a catalytic reformer because the light naphtha has molecules with 6 or fewer carbon atoms which, when reformed, tend to crack into butane and lower molecular weight hydrocarbons which are not useful as high-octane gasoline blending components. Also, the molecules with 6 carbon atoms tend to form aromatics which is undesirable because governmental environmental regulations in a number of countries limit the amount of aromatics (most particularly benzene) that gasoline may contain.\n\nThere are a great many petroleum crude oil sources worldwide and each crude oil has its own unique composition or \"assay\". Also, not all refineries process the same crude oils and each refinery produces its own straight-run naphthas with their own unique initial and final boiling points. In other words, naphtha is a generic term rather than a specific term.\n\nThe table just below lists some fairly typical straight-run heavy naphtha feedstocks, available for catalytic reforming, derived from various crude oils. It can be seen that they differ significantly in their content of paraffins, naphthenes and aromatics:\n\nSome refinery naphthas include olefinic hydrocarbons, such as naphthas derived from the fluid catalytic cracking and coking processes used in many refineries. Some refineries may also desulfurize and catalytically reform those naphthas. However, for the most part, catalytic reforming is mainly used on the straight-run heavy naphthas, such as those in the above table, derived from the distillation of crude oils.\n\nThere are many chemical reactions that occur in the catalytic reforming process, all of which occur in the presence of a catalyst and a high partial pressure of hydrogen. Depending upon the type or version of catalytic reforming used as well as the desired reaction severity, the reaction conditions range from temperatures of about 495 to 525 °C and from pressures of about 5 to 45 atm.\n\nThe commonly used catalytic reforming catalysts contain noble metals such as platinum and/or rhenium, which are very susceptible to poisoning by sulfur and nitrogen compounds. Therefore, the naphtha feedstock to a catalytic reformer is always pre-processed in a hydrodesulfurization unit which removes both the sulfur and the nitrogen compounds. Most catalysts require both sulphur and nitrogen content to be lower than 1 ppm.\n\nThe four major catalytic reforming reactions are:\n\nDuring the reforming reactions, the carbon number of the reactants remains unchanged, except for hydrocracking reactions which break down the hydrocarbon molecule into molecules with fewer carbon atoms. The hydrocracking of paraffins is the only one of the above four major reforming reactions that consumes hydrogen. The isomerization of normal paraffins does not consume or produce hydrogen. However, both the dehydrogenation of naphthenes and the dehydrocyclization of paraffins produce hydrogen. The overall net production of hydrogen in the catalytic reforming of petroleum naphthas ranges from about 50 to 200 cubic meters of hydrogen gas (at 0 °C and 1 atm) per cubic meter of liquid naphtha feedstock. In the United States customary units, that is equivalent to 300 to 1200 cubic feet of hydrogen gas (at 60 °F and 1 atm) per barrel of liquid naphtha feedstock. In many petroleum refineries, the net hydrogen produced in catalytic reforming supplies a significant part of the hydrogen used elsewhere in the refinery (for example, in hydrodesulfurization processes). The hydrogen is also necessary in order to hydrogenolyze any polymers that form on the catalyst.\n\nIn practice, the higher the content of naphtenes in the naphtha feedstock, the better will be the quality of the reformate and the higher the production of hydrogen. Crude oils containing the best naphtha for reforming are typically from Western Africa or the North Sea, such as Bonny light oil or Norwegian Troll.\n\nOwing to too many components in catalytic reforming process feedstock, untraceable reactions and the high temperature range, the design and simulation of catalytic reformer reactors is accompanied by complexities. The lumping technique is used extensively for reducing complexities so that the lumps and reaction pathways that properly describe the reforming system and kinetic rate parameters do not depend on feedstock composition. In one of the recent works, naphtha is considered in terms of 17 hydrocarbon fractions with 15 reactions in which C to C hydrocarbons are specified as light paraffins and the C to C naphtha cuts are characterized as isoparaffins, normal paraffins, naphthenes and aromatics. Reactions in catalytic naphtha reforming are elementary and Hougen-Watson Langmuir-Hinshelwood type reaction rate expressions are used to describe the rate of each reaction. Rate equations of this type explicitly account for the interaction of chemical species with catalyst and contain denominators in which terms characteristic of the adsorption of reacting species are presented.\n\nThe most commonly used type of catalytic reforming unit has three reactors, each with a fixed bed of catalyst, and all of the catalyst is regenerated \"in situ\" during routine catalyst regeneration shutdowns which occur approximately once each 6 to 24 months. Such a unit is referred to as a semi-regenerative catalytic reformer (SRR).\n\nSome catalytic reforming units have an extra \"spare\" or \"swing\" reactor and each reactor can be individually isolated so that any one reactor can be undergoing in situ regeneration while the other reactors are in operation. When that reactor is regenerated, it replaces another reactor which, in turn, is isolated so that it can then be regenerated. Such units, referred to as \"cyclic\" catalytic reformers, are not very common. Cyclic catalytic reformers serve to extend the period between required shutdowns.\n\nThe latest and most modern type of catalytic reformers are called continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) reformers. Such units are defined by continuous in-situ regeneration of part of the catalyst in a special regenerator, and by continuous addition of the regenerated catalyst to the operating reactors. As of 2006, two CCR versions available: UOP's CCR Platformer process and Axens' Octanizing process. The installation and use of CCR units is rapidly increasing.\n\nMany of the earliest catalytic reforming units (in the 1950s and 1960s) were non-regenerative in that they did not perform in situ catalyst regeneration. Instead, when needed, the aged catalyst was replaced by fresh catalyst and the aged catalyst was shipped to catalyst manufacturers to be either regenerated or to recover the platinum content of the aged catalyst. Very few, if any, catalytic reformers currently in operation are non-regenerative.\nThe process flow diagram below depicts a typical semi-regenerative catalytic reforming unit.\n\nThe liquid feed (at the bottom left in the diagram) is pumped up to the reaction pressure (5–45 atm) and is joined by a stream of hydrogen-rich recycle gas. The resulting liquid–gas mixture is preheated by flowing through a heat exchanger. The preheated feed mixture is then totally vaporized and heated to the reaction temperature (495–520 °C) before the vaporized reactants enter the first reactor. As the vaporized reactants flow through the fixed bed of catalyst in the reactor, the major reaction is the dehydrogenation of naphthenes to aromatics (as described earlier herein) which is highly endothermic and results in a large temperature decrease between the inlet and outlet of the reactor. To maintain the required reaction temperature and the rate of reaction, the vaporized stream is reheated in the second fired heater before it flows through the second reactor. The temperature again decreases across the second reactor and the vaporized stream must again be reheated in the third fired heater before it flows through the third reactor. As the vaporized stream proceeds through the three reactors, the reaction rates decrease and the reactors therefore become larger. At the same time, the amount of reheat required between the reactors becomes smaller. Usually, three reactors are all that is required to provide the desired performance of the catalytic reforming unit.\n\nSome installations use three separate fired heaters as shown in the schematic diagram and some installations use a single fired heater with three separate heating coils.\n\nThe hot reaction products from the third reactor are partially cooled by flowing through the heat exchanger where the feed to the first reactor is preheated and then flow through a water-cooled heat exchanger before flowing through the pressure controller (PC) into the gas separator.\n\nMost of the hydrogen-rich gas from the gas separator vessel returns to the suction of the recycle hydrogen gas compressor and the net production of hydrogen-rich gas from the reforming reactions is exported for use in the other refinery processes that consume hydrogen (such as hydrodesulfurization units and/or a hydrocracker unit).\n\nThe liquid from the gas separator vessel is routed into a fractionating column commonly called a \"stabilizer\". The overhead offgas product from the stabilizer contains the byproduct methane, ethane, propane and butane gases produced by the hydrocracking reactions as explained in the above discussion of the reaction chemistry of a catalytic reformer, and it may also contain some small amount of hydrogen. That offgas is routed to the refinery's central gas processing plant for removal and recovery of propane and butane. The residual gas after such processing becomes part of the refinery's fuel gas system.\n\nThe bottoms product from the stabilizer is the high-octane liquid reformate that will become a component of the refinery's product gasoline.\nReformate can be blended directly in the gasoline pool but often it is separated in two or more streams. A common refining scheme consists in fractionating the reformate in two streams, light and heavy reformate. The light reformate has lower octane and can be used as isomerization feedstock if this unit is available. The heavy reformate is high in octane and low in benzene, hence it is an excellent blending component for the gasoline pool.\n\nBenzene is often removed with a specific operation to reduce the content of benzene in the reformate as the finished gasoline has often an upper limit of benzene content (in the UE this is 1% volume). The benzene extracted can be marketed as feedstock for the chemical industry.\n\nMost catalytic reforming catalysts contain platinum or rhenium on a silica or silica-alumina support base, and some contain both platinum and rhenium. Fresh catalyst is chlorided (chlorinated) prior to use.\n\nThe noble metals (platinum and rhenium) are considered to be catalytic sites for the dehydrogenation reactions and the chlorinated alumina provides the acid sites needed for isomerization, cyclization and hydrocracking reactions. The biggest care has to be exercised during the chlorination. Indeed, if not chlorinated (or insufficiently chlorinated) the platinum and rhenium in the catalyst would be reduced almost immediately to metallic state by the hydrogen in the vapour phase. On the other hand, an excessive chlorination could depress excessively the activity of the catalyst.\n\nThe activity (i.e., effectiveness) of the catalyst in a semi-regenerative catalytic reformer is reduced over time during operation by carbonaceous coke deposition and chloride loss. The activity of the catalyst can be periodically regenerated or restored by in situ high temperature oxidation of the coke followed by chlorination. As stated earlier herein, semi-regenerative catalytic reformers are regenerated about once per 6 to 24 months. The higher the severity of the reacting conditions (temperature), the higher the octane of the produced reformate but also the shorter the duration of the cycle between two regenerations. Catalyst's cycle duration is also very dependent on the quality of the feedstock. However, independently of the crude oil used in the refinery, all catalysts require a maximum final boiling point of the naphtha feedstock of 180 °C.\n\nNormally, the catalyst can be regenerated perhaps 3 or 4 times before it must be returned to the manufacturer for reclamation of the valuable platinum and/or rhenium content.\n\nThe sensitivity of catalytic reforming to contamination by sulfur and nitrogen requires hydrotreating the naphtha before it enters the reformer, adding to the cost and complexity of the process. \nDehydrogenation, an important component of reforming, is a strongly endothermic reaction, and as such, requires the reactor vessel to be externally heated. This contributes both to costs and the emissions of the process.\nCatalytic reforming has a limited ability to process naphthas with a high content of normal paraffins, e.g. naphthas from the gas-to-liquids (GTL) units. \nThe reformate has a much higher content of benzene than is permissible by the current regulations in many countries. This means that the reformate should either be further processed in an aromatics extraction unit, or blended with appropriate hydrocarbon streams with low content of aromatics.\nCatalytic reforming requires a whole range of other processing units at the refinery (apart from the distillation tower, a naphtha hydrotreater, usually an isomerization unit to process light naphtha, an aromatics extraction unit, etc.) which puts it out of reach for smaller (micro-)refineries.\n\nMain licensors of catalytic reforming processes, UOP and Axens, constantly work on improving the catalysts, but the rate of improvement seems to be reaching its physical limits. This is driving the emergence of new technologies to process naphtha into gasoline by companies like Chevron Phillips Chemical (Aromax ) and NGT Synthesis (Methaforming , ). \n\nCatalytic reformation is profitable in that it converts long-chain hydrocarbons, for which there is limited demand despite high supply, into short-chained hydrocarbons, which, due to their uses in petrol fuel, are in much greater demand. It can also be used to improve the octane rating of short-chained hydrocarbons by aromatizing them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816159", "title": "Wu Tianming", "text": "Wu Tianming\n\nWu Tianming (; December 5, 1939 – March 4, 2014) was a Chinese film director and producer who was considered one of the leading \"Fourth Generation\" directors.\n\nBorn in Sanyuan County, Shaanxi Province, China on December 5, 1939. In 1960, aged twenty, he was accepted into a training class for film acting run by the Xi’an Film Studio. There were sixteen state-run studios in China at that time, and this was the closest to his home in Sanyuan, Shaanxi Province. He was put on the studio's payroll and had some bit-parts in the studio’s productions of the early 1960s. In 1966, Mao's Cultural Revolution stopped productions in the studios. In 1974-1976, the last three years of the Cultural Revolution, Wu studied at the partly re-opened Beijing Film Academy, majoring in Film Directing.\n\nIn 1982, Wu co-directed two features at Xi’an with his friend Teng Wenji. Afterwards Wu made his debut as a solo director with \"River Without Buoys\", whose commercial success led to Wu Tianming’s appointment as head of the Xi'an Film Studio in 1983. Wu was the youngest studio head in the PRC at 45 years old In 1984, Wu directed his movie \"Life\" (1984), attacking what he defined as the three main problems in Chinese society: having to accept assigned posts rather than choose one’s own employment, the practices of nepotism and favoritism, and “unhealthy tendencies in the Party.” With his film \"Life\", Wu began a policy of producing movies with deep roots in the regions around Xi’an. Wu insisted on producing a number of experimental films, called \"tansuo pian\" to raise aesthetic and conceptual standards in China without regard to their commercial performance. Among these films were Tian Zhuangzhuang’s \"The Horse Thief\" (Daoma Zei, 1986), shot in Tibet and Gansu, and Chen Kaige’s \"King of the Children\" (Haizi Wang, 1987), shot in Yunnan.\n\nBy employing what became known as “Fifth Generation” directors like Tian and Chen and allowing them to make non-commercial films, Wu found himself in conflict with Wu Yigong at the Shanghai Film Studio, who regularly spoke out against “elitist” films which the mass audience couldn’t understand or relate to. Wu Tianming prevailed due to his commercial success and the international acclaim the tansuo pian films garnered at international film festivals. In 1987, Wu made a deal with the cinematographer of his film, Zhang Yimou. Wu would give Zhang his directorial debut with \"Red Sorghum\" in return for starring Zhang starring in Wu's film \"Old Well\" and supervising the cinematography. Both movies were highly successful in the China market and achieved considerable international success. \n\nWhen the head of Shaanxi Propaganda Bureau criticized Wu Tianming's policies, he fought back by publicly denouncing him as “a bureaucrat who doesn’t understand films but wants to control filmmaking.” At Xi'an Studio he nurtured prominent \"Fifth Generation\" directors Zhang Yimou and Chen Kaige. Wu came to the United States in 1989 as a visiting scholar at NYU and decided not to return to China in the wake of the events at Tiananmen Square. After several years of operating a video rental store in California, Wu returned to China in 1994 to direct the Shaw Brothers produced film \"The King of Masks\" in 1995, which was internationally acclaimed. Wu's film \"An Unusual Love Story\" (Feichang Aiqing, 1998) was made in 1998. In 2012, Wu returned to his origins as an actor when he starred in the 2012 film \"Full Circle\". Wu's final film, \"The Song of the Phoenix\" was completed in 2013, but was not released in China until May 6, 2016, more than two years after his death. \n\nWu Tianming died on March 4, 2014 from a heart attack, at the age of 74.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816160", "title": "Summerland Key", "text": "Summerland Key\n\nSummerland Key is an island in the lower Florida Keys about east of Key West; it contains an unincorporated community of Monroe County of the same name.\n\nU.S. 1 (or the Overseas Highway) crosses the island at approximately mile markers 24—25.5, between Ramrod Key and Cudjoe Key. The name appears on U.S. Coast Survey chart #169 in 1878.\n\nSummerland Key is a bedroom community located almost midway between the larger communities of Marathon and Key West.\n\nIt is home to the Brinton Environmental Center of the Florida National High Adventure Sea Base and is a field station for Mote Marine Laboratory. A private, 2550-foot community airstrip (FD51) is located just south of the Overseas Highway on West Shore Drive at mile marker 25.\n\nSome commercial fishing has occurred on Summerland Key.\n\nBeginning in 1948, Henry Hudgins, the father of modern Summerland Key, started developing Summerland from an uninhabited tropical wilderness to an upscale residential neighborhood.\n\nWhile Hudgins was the chief structural engineer for the City of Miami, he met Waren Niles, whose family owned a large part of Summerland since the 1900s. In 1941, the Niles family notified Hudgins they were considering selling their Summerland property. By 1947, Hudgins had made an offer of $100,000 for the purchase of the Niles property and the family sold their Summerland real estate to Hudgins.\n\nIn the fall of 1948 two hurricanes hit the Lower Keys with tidal surges that rose six feet and caused much flood damage to the area. After Hudgins saw the high water mark on Summerland he decided that homes built in his development would have to be elevated. He purchased two surplus military buildings and had his construction crews secure them atop utility poles at the foot of what is Dobie Street today. This was not only the Hudgins family's first home on Summerland, but also one of the first homes in the Keys on stilts — if not the first in all the Keys. Building code today requires all homes be built elevated to be above the floodplain.\n\nHudgins drew up plans for streets and canals for the development and began dredging operations to form the canals. Unhappy with the results of the dredge, Hudgins developed a new technique that was later adopted for digging all the man made canal of the Keys.\n\nDuring the development of Summerland Key, the nearest post office was on Ramrod Key and had been there since 1919. After years of serious effort to get a post office on Summerland, Hudgins got his chance. After the postmaster of the Ramrod post office retired, she suggested that it be moved to Summerland and Hudgins was named postmaster.\n\nHudgins' wife Mary learned to fly and kept a plane in Marathon. After meeting Philip Toppino of Toppino Brothers construction on Rockland Key, who also liked flying, Toppino suggested that Hudgins build an air strip on Summerland. Around 1956, Hudgins and Toppino formed a partnership and developed a section of Summerland, named Summerland Cove, with a landing strip flanked by homes on both sides and canals behind the homes.\n\nAs property began to sell in his development, Hudgins moved his family to a small wooden home on Center Street to be closer to the post office. The home still stands there today.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Hudgins purchased the property to build his dream home, Hermitage, on property facing Niles Channel once owned by the Garibaldi Niles homestead. Designed by Hudgins, the home sat on concrete pilars with a porch facing the channel. The home was designed to withstand 150 mph winds and Hermitage still stands today. Hudgins was only able to enjoy his creation for a few years; he died in 1962.\n\nLasting legacies to Hudgins include his airstrip off West Shore Drive, Henry Street (named for him), Dobie Street (named for his second wife), and Hermitage — Hudgins's dream home on Niles channel.\n\nSummerland Key was also home to singer-songwriter Fred Neil, composer of \"The Dolphins\" and \"Everybody's Talkin'.\" Neil died here in July 2001.\n"}
{"id": "1816163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816163", "title": "North West Norfolk (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North West Norfolk (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth West Norfolk is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by James Wild, a Conservative.\n\nUnder the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, the three two-member county divisions of Norfolk were replaced with six single-member divisions, including the newly created North-Western Division of Norfolk, largely formed from parts of the abolished Western Division. It was abolished at the next redistribution of seats under the provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1918, when it was largely absorbed by the expanded county constituency of King's Lynn. It was re-established for the February 1974 general election, replacing the abolished King's Lynn constituency.\n\nThe first MP in the re-established constituency was Christopher Brocklebank-Fowler, who had gained King's Lynn, largely a bellwether seat, from one of Harold Wilson's government colleagues in the Labour Party. He therefore effectively held the seat in the two 1974 elections, and in 1979; however, by March 1981, he became distanced from the Conservatives and defected to the newly formed Social Democratic Party shortly before the 1983 Conservative landslide, in which Brocklebank-Fowler lost his seat to the replacement Conservative candidate Henry Bellingham.\n\nBellingham increased his precarious lead over Brocklebank-Fowler at the 1987 general election. Therefore, at the following election, Brocklebank-Fowler chose to contest another area and Labour's candidate regained second place in this constituency, almost doubling their share of the vote. Labour gained the seat at the 1997 general election; however, Bellingham regained the seat at the 2001 general election and subsequently increased his majority in both 2005 and 2010. His majority fell slightly in 2015, but he retained the seat in the 2017 general election with 60% of the vote, having been knighted in the New Year's honours list of 2016.\nThe 2010 election saw political party infighting when the Labour candidate for North West Norfolk, Manish Sood stated in an interview with the local newspaper \"Lynn News\" that Gordon Brown was This gained national attention and resulted in Labour disowning their candidate. Sood did not attend the count and stated he would watch it from his home in Leicester. He ended up finishing third, behind Bellingham and the Liberal Democrat candidate William Summers, whose party received their best ever result in the constituency, with an 18.3% swing from Labour to the others.\n\nNorfolk North West constituency covers an extensive hinterland in the far corner of East Anglia - remote from London, but close to Lincolnshire and the East Midlands, with which the area shares more economic links.\n\nA minority of King's Lynn contain severe poverty marked by unemployment, social housing dependency and social problems - within relatively affluent East Anglia, only Jaywick and Great Yarmouth from 2001-2004 scored higher in deprivation indices. Contrasted with this is the bulk of the area: the tourist resort Hunstanton, retail, military, public sector and commercial activity of Kings Lynn and the royal estate at Sandringham, along with many small villages and more than 50% undulating cultivated farmland — incomes and types of dwelling are close to the national average. The most frequent result has been of a fairly marginal but not negligible majority for a Conservative, who have won it 8 out of the last 9 general elections.\n\nLabour's share of the vote fell from a winning 43.8% in the 1997 election to just 13.3% in 2010, marking the steepest decline from the start to end of the thirteen years of Labour government.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of King's Lynn, and the Sessional Divisions of Brothercross, Freebridge Lynn, Freebridge Marshall, and Gallow and Smithdon.\n\nAs King's Lynn formed a separate Parliamentary Borough, only non-resident freeholders of the Borough were entitled to vote in this constituency.\n\nOn abolition, the bulk of the Division was amalgamated with the abolished Parliamentary Borough of King's Lynn to form the new King's Lynn Division of Norfolk.  Eastern areas, including Fakenham, were transferred to the Northern Division.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of King's Lynn, the Urban Districts of Hunstanton and Wells-next-the-Sea, and the Rural Districts of Docking, Freebridge Lynn, Marshland, and Walsingham.\n\nThe re-established constituency was formed from the abolished county constituency of King's Lynn with the addition of Wells-next-the-Sea and the Rural District of Walsingham, which included Fakenham, transferred from North Norfolk. This area is currently in the constituencies of North Norfolk and Broadland.\n\n1983–2010: The Borough of King's Lynn and West Norfolk wards of Burnham, Chase, Clenchwarton, Creake, Dersingham, Docking, Gayton, Gaywood Central, Gaywood North, Gaywood South, Grimston, Heacham, Hunstanton, Lynn Central, Lynn North, Lynn South West, Mershe Lande, Middleton, North Coast, Priory, Rudham, St Lawrence, St Margaret's, Snettisham, Spellowfields, The Walpoles, The Woottons, Valley Hill, West Walton, West Winch, and Wiggenhall.\n\nWells-next-the-Sea and areas comprising the former Rural District of Walsingham, including Fakenham, were transferred back to North Norfolk.  Minor realignment of the boundary with South West Norfolk.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of King's Lynn and West Norfolk wards of Brancaster, Burnham, Clenchwarton, Dersingham, Docking, Fairstead, Gayton, Gaywood Chase, Gaywood North Bank, Grimston, Heacham, Hunstanton, North Lynn, North Wootton, Old Gaywood, Priory, Rudham, St Margaret's with St Nicholas, Snettisham, South and West Lynn, South Wootton, Spellowfields, Springwood, Valley Hill, Walpole, and West Winch.\n\nSmall area transferred to South West Norfolk.\n\nThe present constituency includes two former Parliamentary Boroughs, those of Castle Rising, which was abolished as a 'rotten borough' in 1832, and King's Lynn, abolished in 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816167", "title": "James Broadwood Lyall", "text": "James Broadwood Lyall\n\nSir James Broadwood Lyall (1838 – 4 December 1916) was a British administrator in the Indian Civil Service during the British Raj.\n\nJames Lyall was born in 1838. He was a son of Alfred Lyall and Mary Drummond. His elder brother was Alfred Comyn Lyall, and his paternal uncles included a Dean of Canterbury, William Rowe Lyall, and a chairman of the British East India Company, George Lyall. He was educated first at Eton College and then at Haileybury College.\n\nHe joined the Bengal Civil Service in 1857, arriving in India the following year. He served with the Punjab commission until the end of 1859 and went on to serve as the financial commissioner of the Punjab. He was the first vice-chancellor of the University of the Punjab, a post to which he was appointed in October 1882.\n\nBetween 1883 and 1887, Lyall served in southern India as the Resident in Mysore and Chief Commissioner of Coorg. Between 1887 and 1892, Lyall was Lieutenant Governor of the Punjab. He was appointed as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Star of India in 1888.\n\nWhile Lieutenant-Governor, Lyall helped to found and develop many of the Canal colonies throughout the Punjab, an ambitious plan to harness the rivers of the region and transform of desert into agricultural land. He was also instrumental in establishing one of the first planned cities in British India, which was named \"Lyallpur\" in his honour and is now Faisalabad.\n\nLyall was appointed as Knight Grand Commander of the Indian Empire in May 1892, after ending his tenure in the Punjab. In 1893, he was appointed to the Royal Commission on Opium, which he thought was an official attempt to procrastinate in order to silence opposition to opium use and its trade. Lyall believed there was nothing untoward about moderate use of opium. In 1898, he served as President of the Indian Famine Commission.\n\nHe died on 4 December 1916 in Eastry, Kent and is buried in the local churchyard.\n\nLyall contributed a chapter on the Punjab to \"The British Empire\" series, published in 1899.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816168", "title": "Joseph K. Mansfield", "text": "Joseph K. Mansfield\n\nJoseph King Fenno Mansfield (December 22, 1803 – September 18, 1862) was a career United States Army officer, civil engineer, and a Union general in the American Civil War, mortally wounded at the Battle of Antietam.\n\nMansfield was born to Henry and Mary Fenno Mansfield in New Haven, Connecticut, a cousin of Joseph G. Totten. He entered the United States Military Academy when he was fourteen and graduated second in a class of forty in 1822. He then became a resident of Middletown, Connecticut before and during his military career. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Advancement came slowly in the peacetime Army and he was promoted to first lieutenant in 1832, captain in 1838. In the Mexican–American War, he received a brevet promotion to major for the action at Fort Brown, Texas, on May 9, 1846. He was wounded in the leg at the Battle of Monterrey, and he received a brevet promotion to lieutenant colonel for his actions there. He was appointed a brevet colonel for the Battle of Buena Vista in 1847. After the war he was promoted to colonel and Inspector General of the U.S. Army on May 28, 1853.\n\nAt the start of the Civil War, Mansfield commanded the Department of Washington (April 27 - August 17, 1861), and was promoted to brigadier general on May 6, 1861. General-in-chief Winfield Scott recommended Mansfield for command of the volunteer army being raised in Washington D.C. that spring, but the command went to Irvin McDowell instead. Mansfield was not considered the best choice due to his relatively advanced age and skepticism of volunteer troops and the administration's push for a quick drive on Richmond that would end the war in a few months, and he also lacked a political sponsor in Washington. After the Union rout at Bull Run, George McClellan was put in command of the war effort in the Eastern Theater and Mansfield's hopes of army command were again dashed. McClellan also did not offer him a command in the newly-created Army of the Potomac. Mansfield was stationed at Hatteras Inlet, North Carolina, in October, following the battle fought there by Benjamin Butler in August. He was a brigade commander in the Department of Virginia from March to June 1862. His only combat activity during this period was the firing of coastal batteries from Hampton Roads against the ironclad \"CSS Virginia\" in its naval battle against the \"USS Monitor\" on March 9, 1862. Until the fall of 1862, Mansfield commanded the Suffolk Division of the VII Corps of the Department of Virginia in the vicinity of Suffolk.\n\nDuring the Maryland Campaign, when Confederate General Robert E. Lee invaded the North for the first time, Mansfield was given command of the XII Corps of the Army of the Potomac, as of September 15, 1862, two days prior to the Battle of Antietam. He arrived in the camp with 40 years of army experience, but no recent combat. He was white-haired and white-bearded, but had a vigorous manner that belied his age. His officers considered him nervous and fussy, but his men, many of whom were new recruits, liked him well enough due to his shows of blustery enthusiasm and fatherly assurance.\n\nOn the morning of September 17, 1862, the I Corps under Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker attacked from the north, parallel to the Hagerstown Turnpike, smashing into the Confederate left flank. Mansfield's corps came immediately behind. As the lead brigade moved through an open field east of the Miller farmstead, they were subjected to fire by Confederate gunners, who took a terrible toll on the rookie soldiers. The troops were advancing in column formation, more suitable for marching, and their officers ordered deployment into open battle lines, which would reduce the risk of casualties from artillery shelling. Mansfield countermanded these orders, insisting they stay in column, because he was concerned that outside of the immediate control of their officers, the men would break and run. The result of this was to improve the mass of men that descended on the Confederate lines.\nMansfield personally led troops on his left flank, from the brigade of Brig. Gen. Samuel W. Crawford, in the East Woods. He returned to the rear to bring up more troops, and when he reached the line again he saw soldiers from the 10th Maine Infantry regiment firing into the woods. Mansfield, assuming that men from Hooker's corps were in the woods, rode down the regimental line crying out, \"You are firing on our own men!\" The soldiers convinced Mansfield that in fact they were not and were receiving heavy fire from the woods. Mansfield replied, \"Yes, yes, you are right,\" and just then his horse was hit and a bullet caught him squarely in the right chest. Writes Dr. Patrick Henry Flood, Surgeon, 107th NY Regiment, in a letter to his widow, \"I found the clothing around his chest saturated with blood, and upon opening them, found he was wounded in the right breast, the ball penetrating about two inches from the nipple, and passing out the back, near the edge of the shoulder blade.\"\n\nHe was taken to a field hospital at the George Line farm in Sharpsburg, where he died the next morning. He was interred in Mortimer Cemetery and re-interred in Indian Hill Cemetery, Middletown, Connecticut on May 30, 1867. He received a posthumous promotion to major general, backdated from July 18, 1862, for his gallantry at Antietam. Alpheus Williams became acting commander of the XII Corps after Mansfield fell.\n\nFort Mansfield, a coastal artillery installation in Westerly, Rhode Island, was named in his honor. Mansfield Avenue in the Antietam National Battlefield was also named for him. The Middletown Mansfields baseball team was named for him as well.\n\nHis nephew, Lt. Howard Mather Burnham of the 5th U.S. Light Artillery, Battery H, was killed in action in 1863 at the Battle of Chickamauga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816170", "title": "Nick Whitaker", "text": "Nick Whitaker\n\nNick Whitaker (born October 1, 1988) is an American actor who played the lead role in \"\".\n\nWhitaker's first role was a Chase Patterson in \"Message in a Cell Phone\". He is an active member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and has appeared in many church related movies which include starring as Joseph Smith in the major film from the LDS Motion Picture Studios, \"\", which is currently playing at the Joseph Smith Memorial Building and various visitor centres across the world. He has also appeared in \"Brigham City\", \"Money or The Mission\", and the children's film \"Bug Off\".\n\nWhitaker has also appeared in the Disney Channel movies \"High School Musical\" and \"Read It and Weep\", and he had a minor role as one of the basketball players in \"Hatching Pete\".\n\nIn \"Read It and Weep\" he plays Lenny Bartlett, the older brother of Jamie Bartlett, who is the main character. In the movie he sings the song \"I Will Be Around\". Unofficial MP3's of the song are currently being circulated on various movie and Disney fan sites due to the lack of any official releases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816172", "title": "Brad Armstrong (wrestler)", "text": "Brad Armstrong (wrestler)\n\nRobert Bradley \"Brad\" James (June 15, 1962 – November 1, 2012) was an American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Brad Armstrong. He is best known for his appearances with the promotion World Championship Wrestling in the 1990s. He was the son of wrestler \"Bullet Bob\" Armstrong and brother to professional wrestlers Steve, Scott and Brian.\n\nBrad Armstrong started out in the National Wrestling Alliance's Gulf Coast territory, Southeastern Championship Wrestling in July 1980 at the age of 18. He was a face, or good guy, due to his good looks and superb wrestling ability. He feuded with Jerry Stubbs and Tom Prichard during his stay there and won the NWA United States Junior Heavyweight Championship there.\n\nArmstrong moved to the NWA's Georgia territory, Georgia Championship Wrestling, in 1984, where he feuded with Tom McCartney, Ted DiBiase alongside his father Bob and then \"White Lightning\" Tim Horner. with who he formed The Lightning Express. Armstrong's in ring ability allowed him to take great advantage of a mix of technical wrestling and explosive speed in his style. It was during this time that Armstrong was involved in an angle with Tommy Rich. Rich was in a feud with Ted DiBiase. They had a \"loser leaves wrestling\" match that Rich lost. So, Rich put on a mask & came back as Mr. R. DiBiase insisted that Mr R. was really Rich. Then, on a TV match for Dibiase's NWA National Title, Rich visited announcer Gordon Solie during the match. Dibiase unmasked Mr R. to find that it was actually Armstrong. In all of the confusion, Armstrong pinned Dibiase to become NWA National Champion for his first of two times holding that belt.\n\nArmstrong held the NWA National Tag Team Championship twice that year, once with his father, and once with Horner. All three returned to Southeastern Championship Wrestling in 1985, before eventually joining the NWA's Mid-Atlantic territory, Jim Crockett Promotions, in late 1986. Armstrong feuded with Jimmy Garvin, locked horns with the Four Horsemen, and teamed with both his father and Horner at various times.\n\nIn 1986, Brad went on his first tour of Japan for All Japan Pro Wrestling, to take part in a tournament to determine the first World Junior Heavyweight Championship. Brad made it to finals, but lost the match and the title to Hiro Saito on July 31.\n\nArmstrong then moved to Cowboy Bill Watts' Mid-South Wrestling / Universal Wrestling Federation, in 1986 where he won The North American Heavyweight Championship from Ernie Ladd in 1986 and losing it to Ted DiBiase a month later. In early 1987, Brad reunited with Tim Horner forming a tag team known as \"The Lightning Express, winning the UWF Tag Team Championship from future superstars Sting and Rick Steiner. They then feuded with the \"Sheepherders,\" later known as The Bushwhackers, Butch Miller and Luke Williams, to whom they eventually lost their belts.\n\nThe Lightning Express then went back to Jim Crockett Promotions (which became World Championship Wrestling in November 1988) after the UWF was bought out by Crockett, but were not pushed, and Horner left for the WWF in late 1988. Armstrong bounced between singles wrestling, temporary tag teams, and sorting out personal issues for much of the next few years.\n\nAfter teaming with a returning Tim Horner during the summer of 1990, Armstrong announced on the August 4, 1990 edition of \"WCW Saturday Night\" that he would be forming a new tandem with Doug Furnas, and that they planned on challenging for the United States Tag-Team Championship. However Furnas would leave the company shortly thereafter, leaving Armstrong to continue his Lightning Express partnership with Tim Horner and to also occasionally team with David Sierra and Brad Anderson. In September 1990 he was split off as a singles wrestler again and rebranded The Candyman. Dressed in red and white tights and handing out candy to fans on his way to the ring, Armstrong began to receive his first significant singles push in the new WCW. He went undefeated, pinning Dutch Mantell, Buddy Landell, and James Earl Wright over the next two weeks. At the 1990 Halloween Havoc, Armstrong faced JW Storm (Jeff Warner), who was a recent addition to WCW and was also on an undefeated streak. The Candyman pinned Storm in what Jim Ross stated was an upset. The run finally ended on November 15, when The Iron Sheik upset The Candyman on a house show in Kansas City, Kansas.\n\nOn Clash of Champions XXIII on November 20, The Candyman was defeated by the debuting Big Cat after the referee stopped the match. By the beginning of 1991 Armstrong had dropped the Candyman gimmick and had reunited with Tim Horner. In January 1991 the Lightning Express faced The Fabulous Freebirds at a World Championship Wrestling TV taping, going to a double disqualification. They would also face Arn Anderson and Barry Windham and The Royal Family during this period. On February 24 at WrestleWar 91 Armstrong was defeated by Bobby Eaton.\n\nIn April 1991, the Fabulous Freebirds began speaking of a third member named Fantasia, who debuted at SuperBrawl I on May 29 to help the Freebirds capture the vacant WCW United States Tag Team Titles from the Young Pistols. Armstrong, under a mask and covered in black feathers, would quickly have his name changed to Badstreet (the name was changed to prevent legal action from Disney). The three Freebirds then won the WCW World Six-Man Tag Team Championship, while Hayes and Garvin held the WCW United States Tag Team Championship. Armstrong never revealed his Badstreet identity on television. As a result, he was able to interfere on behalf of both sides during the Freebirds' win over the Young Pistols for the vacant U.S. Tag Team Championship at SuperBrawl I, firstly as himself on behalf of the Pistols (who included his brother Steve) then later as Fantasia on behalf of the Freebirds, all within the space of the same title match. In September 1991, Armstrong began to tour Japan with New Japan Pro Wrestling, where he would tour Japan with ten times between 1991 and 1996.\n\nLater that year, Armstrong was given another masked gimmick, Arachnaman, who bore such a strong resemblance to Spider-Man that Marvel Comics threatened legal action, causing WCW to quickly drop the character.\n\nOn July 5, 1992, Armstrong won the WCW Light Heavyweight Championship (also known as the second incarnation of the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship and the first incarnation of the WCW Cruiserweight Championship), by defeating Scotty Flamingo. He soon injured his knee during a tour of Japan in a match against The Great Muta in Sapporo, and was stripped of the title at the Clash of the Champions XX two months later. He returned weeks later, and remained with the company until early 1995.\n\nArmstrong returned in early 1995 teaming with Tim Horner wrestling on WCW \"Saturday Night\" and \"Worldwide\".\n\nIn June 1995, Armstrong joined Smoky Mountain Wrestling. By August, he'd split his time between SMW in Knoxville and United States Wrestling Association in Memphis. Armstrong won both The USWA Heavyweight Championship (defeating Billy Jack Haynes on August 4, but lost it back to Haynes on August 7) and the SMW Heavyweight Championship three times (defeating Buddy Landel on August 12, losing it to Terry Gordy on October 20, regained it from Gordy on November 23, losing it to Tommy Rich on November 25, regained it on November 27, and lost it to Jerry Lawler on December 26) during his stay. After SMW folded in November 1995, Armstrong wrestled regularly for the USWA until February 1996 when he returned to WCW. In December 1995, he toured Europe for Otto Wanz's Catch Wrestling Association, losing a CWA World Middleweight Championship match to champion Fit Finlay in the tenth round.\n\nArmstrong eventually returned to WCW in February 1996. At Slamboree, Armstrong unsuccessfully challenged Dean Malenko for the WCW World Cruiserweight Championship, despite a highly technical match, before leaving in November 1996 to tour with New Japan Pro Wrestling.\n\nUpon his return to WCW in the summer of 1997, Brad had developed a heel turn, changing his look, sporting short hair and a goatee, and had developed a bad attitude and mean streak. By the end of the year, he developed a string of losses, which he claimed was blamed by the \"Armstrong Curse\".\n\nIn 1999, he was repackaged as \"B.A.\", a member of The No Limit Soldiers stable. After the group disbanded, he embarked on a feud against Berlyn, who attacked Armstrong's brother Scott and badmouthed the United States of America. The feud ran through Halloween Havoc, where Armstrong defeated Berlyn.\n\nAfter Halloween Havoc, Vince Russo forced Armstrong to find a gimmick. He was later given the gimmick of \"Buzzkill\", a takeoff of his brother Brian's gimmick, Road Dogg. As \"Buzzkill,\" Armstrong used an entrance theme similar to the one used by the New Age Outlaws in the WWF. The gimmick was less successful due to fans feeling it an imitation of the Road Dogg persona, as well as a lack of awareness that the two were brothers.\n\nHe injured his knee in March 2000 in an accident backstage at a \"WCW Saturday Night\" taping, where Armstrong got run over by Juventud Guerrera and Psicosis, severely injuring his knee. After going through knee surgery, his WCW contract expired in 2001, and he left the business for a couple years, until returning to the independent circuit in 2003.\n\nOn September 12, 2006, Armstrong signed a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment and began wrestling at ECW brand house shows and acting as a trainer to the younger members of the roster. In December, around the time rumors of ECW color commentator Tazz leaving the company began to circulate, Armstrong began to make sporadic appearances as a \"guest commentator\" on the brand. The three-man booth, originally for a single match on the December 19 episode before expanding to a full show on January 9, did not last and Armstrong resumed his role as a producer. While working as a producer for WWE, Armstrong continued to wrestle for various independent promotions in the Southeast. At the same time, Armstrong worked at a health store in Marietta and volunteered at Shiloh Hills Christian School in Kennesaw, performing various functions including serving as field trip monitor and assisting with car duty on campus.\n\nOn November 1, 2012, Armstrong was found dead in his Kennesaw, Georgia home, after seeing his physician the previous week for an undisclosed medical issue. His former Lightning Express tag team partner and best friend Tim Horner speculated that Armstrong died from a heart attack.\n\nArmstrong was survived by his parents, brothers, his wife Lori Spranz (whom he married on October 17, 1998) and his daughter Jillian (born 2001).\n\nEulogizing Armstrong, Jim Ross described him as \"one of the more talented in ring performers I've ever worked with...one of the most underrated all-time greats ever in the business.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816173", "title": "St Swithun's Way", "text": "St Swithun's Way\n\nSt Swithun's Way is a long-distance footpath in England from Winchester Cathedral, Hampshire to Farnham, Surrey. It is named after Swithun, a 9th-century Bishop of Winchester, and roughly follows the Winchester to Farnham stretch of the Pilgrims' Way. The route was opened in 2002 to mark the Golden Jubilee of Elizabeth II.\n\nSwithun was the Bishop of Winchester from 852 until his death in 862. After his death Swithun became associated with several miracles and was eventually declared a saint. As a result of the miracles attributed to him, and his elevation to sainthood, Swithun's shrine in Winchester became a site of pilgrimage. Winchester Cathedral was also a starting point for pilgrimages to other holy sites, the most significant being Canterbury which was reached using the Pilgrims' Way.\n\nSt Swithun's Way was opened by Hampshire County Council in 2002 to mark the Golden Jubilee of Elizabeth II. It follows the approximate route of the Winchester to Farnham section of the Pilgrims' Way; most of the original route lies under the A31 road.\n\nSt Swithun's Way is partially waymarked by circular discs attached to wooden posts and street furniture. The discs are marked with a green arrow and the image of a shell over two crossing crosiers. The crosiers are meant to represent St Swithun and St Thomas Becket, a former Archbishop of Canterbury whose shrine was at Canterbury Cathedral. The route is usually well waymarked in Hampshire but is relatively poorly marked in Surrey, particularly in Farnham where the route passes through a number of narrow unmarked alleyways and through the campus of the University of Creative Arts.\n\nThe route begins at St Swithun's shrine in Winchester Cathedral and continues eastwards through the Itchen Valley, where several other named footpaths meet. The Itchen Way, in particular, follows a significant part of the route between Winchester and New Alresford. The footpath is close to the River Itchen until it reaches New Alresford, where it passes through the towns and villages that lie near the Watercress Line. From Alton it continues through farmland and the villages of Froyle and Bentley before crossing the county boundary into Surrey and reaching the castle at Farnham. To link to the North Downs Way, it is necessary to continue through the town to the railway station.\n\nThe entire route links up two National Trails connecting the South Downs Way, at Winchester, and the North Downs Way, at Farnham. The route can also be used with the Hangers Way to follow the geological edge of the chalk landscape between the North Downs and the South Downs. \nSt Swithun's Way also links up with the Pilgrims' Trail from Winchester to Portsmouth; this trail then extends across the sea to Mont Saint-Michel in Normandy.\n\nThe route is a combination of field paths and bridleways, with some sections being very muddy after bad weather. The walk is mostly through sheep country with some horses and cattle, although most paths through the latter fields are segregated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816178", "title": "Charles James Lyall", "text": "Charles James Lyall\n\nSir Charles James Lyall (1845–1920) was an Arabic scholar, and English civil servant working in India during the period of the British Raj.\n\nCharles James Lyall was born in London on 9 March 1845. He was the eldest son of a banker, also called Charles, and his wife Harriet (née Matheson). Educated initially at King's College School and then King's College London, in 1863 Lyall went on to study Greats at Balliol College, Oxford, from which he graduated in 1867 with a BA degree. He had already come first in the 1865 competitive examination for appointments in the Indian Civil Service, and after graduation he left England for India. He arrived there on 4 December 1867 and was appointed assistant magistrate and collector in the North-Western Provinces.\n\nLyall spent a brief period, between April and June 1872, as assistant under-secretary in the Foreign department of the British government of India. From September 1873 he was under-secretary in the department of Revenue, Agriculture and Commerce, He was appointed Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire (CIE) in January 1880, having ended his role as under-secretary in the previous year. From 1880 he was primarily engaged as secretary to the Chief Commissioner of Assam, but also had two periods as Judge and Commissioner for the Assam valley districts and a few months as secretary in the department of Revenue, Agriculture and Commerce.\n\nFrom August 1889 Lyall spent some time working as home secretary in the Raj government, and was also tasked with an investigation of the penal settlement at Port Blair. He and A. S. Lethbridge, a surgeon in the British administration, concluded that the punishment of transportation to the Andaman Islands was failing to achieve the purpose intended and that indeed criminals preferred to go there rather than be incarcerated in Indian jails. Lyall and Lethbridge recommended that a \"penal stage\" existed in the transportation sentence, whereby transported prisoners were subjected to a period of harsh treatment upon arrival. The outcome was the construction of the Cellular Jail, which has been described as \"a place of exclusion and isolation within a more broadly constituted remote penal space.\"\n\nHe was formally appointed as home secretary on a permanent basis in November 1890 and was the acting Chief Commissioner of Assam between July and October 1894. His last appointment before his retirement from India was between December 1895 and July 1898, during which period he was Chief Commissioner of the Central Provinces and Berar. He had been appointed a Companion of the Order of the Star of India (CSI) in June 1893 and then, in June 1897, he was gazetted in the Diamond Jubilee Honours list as a Knight Commander of the same Order.\n\nUpon his return to England, Lyall was transferred to the India Office in London as secretary to the Judicial and Public Department. He held that post until his retirement in 1910.\n\nLyall died at his home in Cornwall Gardens, London, on 1 September 1920 and was buried at Putney Vale Cemetery. He had married Florence, a daughter of Captain Henry Fraser of Calcutta, in 1870 and the couple had two sons and five daughters.\n\nIn his leisure time Lyall was known as a scholar of various Eastern languages. He had demonstrated a gift for Hebrew while at university and he went on to learn Arabic, Hindustani and Persian, as well as sufficient of what was then called the Mikir language to enable him to translate some folktales that had been collected by Edward Stack. The \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" says that he was \"one of Britain's foremost scholars of Eastern languages\" and that \n\nHe published the two-volume \"Translations of Ancient Arabian Poetry\" (1885, 1894), and translations of \"The Diwan of Abid ibn al-Abras\" (1913), \"The Poems of Amr Son of Qamiah\" (1919), and \"The Mufaddaliyat\" (1921), as well as articles on Hindustani and Arabic literature. Some of the latter were published in the ninth and eleventh editions of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\".\n\nLyall was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, of the University of Calcutta and of King's College, London, as well as being a vice-president of the Royal Asiatic Society and an official representative of the government of India at various international oriental congresses between 1899 and 1908. He was President of the Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1894 and an honorary member both of that and of the Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft. He also received honorary degrees from the universities of Edinburgh, Oxford and Strasbourg. He assisted in the foundation of the London School of Oriental Studies.\n\nThe following list is not exhaustive. Lyall contributed papers to many journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816179", "title": "John C. Caldwell", "text": "John C. Caldwell\n\nJohn Curtis Caldwell (April 17, 1833 – August 31, 1912) was a teacher, a Union general in the American Civil War, and an American diplomat.\n\nCaldwell was born in Lowell, Vermont. He graduated from Amherst College in 1855 and moved to Maine, where he was the principal of the Washington Academy in East Machias.\n\nAt the beginning of the Civil War, Caldwell was 28 years old and had no military experience. However, his bearing as an academic principal seems to have impressed others because he was elected colonel of the 11th Maine Infantry regiment on November 12, 1861. Early in the Peninsula Campaign (April 28, 1862), he was promoted to brigadier general and assumed command of the 1st Brigade of the 1st Division of II Corps of the Army of the Potomac after the brigade commander, Brigadier General Oliver O. Howard, was wounded at the Battle of Seven Pines. At the Battle of Glendale, he displayed \"personal gallantry\" in coming to the aid of the beleaguered Union division led by Philip Kearny.\n\nAt the Battle of Antietam, on September 17, 1862, he briefly led his division when its commander, major general Israel B. Richardson, was wounded. Caldwell himself was wounded in the battle and he received criticism that he handled his brigade poorly in the assault on the sunken road in the center of the Confederate line (the sunken road, or \"Bloody Lane\"). There were also rumors spread that he had hidden in the rear to avoid direct contact with the enemy. He was wounded again, twice, at the Battle of Fredericksburg that December, while preparing his brigade to assault the stone wall on Marye's Heights; one of his regiments broke and ran during the assault, further tarnishing his reputation. At the Battle of Chancellorsville the following May, his brigade performed well under difficult circumstances, covering the retreat of the army from the crossroads at the Chancellor House.\n\nCaldwell's bloodiest combat experience was at the Battle of Gettysburg on July 2, 1863. Since May 22, he had commanded the 1st Division of the II Corps, now under Maj. Gen. Winfield S. Hancock. He and his division arrived on the battlefield on the morning of July 2 and took up a reserve position on Cemetery Ridge. That afternoon, as the powerful Confederate assault from the corps of Lt. Gen. James Longstreet, struck the Union III Corps, Hancock ordered Caldwell's division to reinforce the III Corps in the Wheatfield. Caldwell got his division moving quickly and conducted the largest Union assault of the three-day battle. However, due to a lack of adequate command on that portion of the battlefield, Caldwell's division was hit in its exposed right flank by the Confederate division of Maj. Gen. Lafayette McLaws, causing great confusion and a general retreat back across the Wheatfield.\n\nCaldwell received criticism from Maj. Gen. George Sykes, the commander of the Union V Corps, who was operating nearby. General Hancock subsequently lost confidence in Caldwell and his staff conducted an investigation to determine whether Caldwell led his division properly. He was exonerated from any blame, but his reputation in the Army of the Potomac was damaged. A recent writer on Gettysburg has blamed Sykes for giving sketchy instructions to Caldwell. In March 1864, the army was reorganized and reduced from five corps to three. Caldwell was relieved of command during this reduction and saw no further combat service.\n\nAfter the war, Caldwell served in the honor guard for Abraham Lincoln's funeral train. He received a brevet promotion to major general on August 19, 1865, and he was mustered out of the volunteer service on January 15, 1866. He returned to civilian life as a lawyer and a member of the Maine Legislature, but he also served as the adjutant general of the Maine Militia from 1867 to 1869. He then entered the diplomatic service as the U.S. Consul in Valparaíso, Chile, from 1869 to 1874; U.S. Minister to Uruguay and Paraguay, 1874 to 1882; U.S. Consul to San José, Costa Rica, 1897 to 1909.\n\nCaldwell died in Calais, Maine, and is buried at St. Stephen Rural Cemetery in St. Stephen, New Brunswick, Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816185", "title": "Skip Alexander", "text": "Skip Alexander\n\nStewart Murray \"Skip\" Alexander, Jr. (August 6, 1918 – October 24, 1997) was an American collegiate and professional golfer. \n\nAlexander was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, but was raised in Durham, North Carolina. He attended Duke University from 1937 to 1940. During that time, he helped Duke win the Southern Conference Championship in golf three times, won the individual conference title twice, was a two-time Southern Intercollegiate medalist and twice reached the quarter-finals of the National Intercollegiate Tournament.\n\nAlexander turned professional in 1941 and joined the PGA Tour in 1946. In 1948 he won his first tour event, the Tucson Open. He would win twice more on tour.\n\nOn September 24, 1950, Alexander was the lone survivor of a plane crash in Evansville, Indiana, in which he was severely burned over 70% of his body. After 17 operations, one of which was to permanently freeze his badly burned fingers around the grip of a golf club instead of removing them, he returned to help the United States win the 1951 Ryder Cup. Sam Snead, the Ryder Cup captain that year, paired Alexander against the British champion, John Panton, in the singles portion of the competition. Although the thought was that it might well be a throwaway match, it would at least save their other players from playing Panton, who was beating everyone at that time. Alexander, with both hands bleeding, won the match by the largest margin in Ryder Cup history to that point, 8 & 7.\n\nAlexander served as the golf pro at Lakewood Country Club (now known as St. Petersburg Country Club) in St. Petersburg, Florida starting in 1951, and served in that capacity for 34 years.\n\nAlexander was awarded the 1959 Ben Hogan Award for golfers who make a comeback after suffering a physical handicap. He was inducted into the Carolinas Golf Hall of Fame in 1986 and in 1987 was inducted for into the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame as well as the Duke Hall of Fame. His son Buddy, a former U.S. Amateur champion (1986) was the head golf coach at the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida from 1988–2014. He also coached at Georgia Southern University (1977–80) and Louisiana State University (1983–87).\n\nAlexander died at his home in St. Petersburg.\n\n\"this list may be incomplete\"\n\n\"this list may be incomplete\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1816191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816191", "title": "Don't Go Away", "text": "Don't Go Away\n\n\"Don't Go Away\" is a song by English rock band Oasis from their third album, \"Be Here Now\", written by Noel Gallagher. The song was released as a commercial single only in Japan, peaking at number 48 on the Oricon chart, and as a promotional single in the United States, Canada, Japan and Europe. In the United States and Canada it was a success, reaching number 35 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Airplay chart and number 15 on the Canadian \"RPM\" Top Singles chart in late 1997. It was the band's last major hit in the United States until 2008's \"The Shock of the Lightning\".\n\nAlthough \"Don't Go Away\" appears for the first time in 1997, its origins date back to 1993, when Oasis spent time with The Real People at their studio in Liverpool. \"Don't Go Away\" was included in a batch of songs written under the wing of the Griffiths brothers (which also included \"Columbia\", \"Rock 'n' Roll Star\", \"Rockin' Chair\" and others).\n\nLiam Gallagher claims to have cried whilst recording the song, as a result of dwelling on \"a certain thing\". He said, in a 1997 interview, \"I just thought 'fuck that, I can't be singing this song' and I had to go away and sort myself out\". Listening back to the song he admits to being very proud of his vocal performance.\n\nIn a 1997 interview promoting \"Be Here Now\", Noel Gallagher had the following to say about the song: \"It's a very sad song about not wanting to lose someone you're close to. The middle eight I made up on the spot -- I never had that lyric until the day we recorded it: 'Me and you, what's going on?/ All we seem to know is how to show/ The feelings that are wrong.' It's after a row. Quite bleak.\"\n\n\"We put Burt Bacharach horns on because he was the master of break-up songs. I did all the string arrangements. I tried to keep them as simple as possible. I like the way Marc Bolan used them on Children of the Revolution. People do remember string parts as separate hooklines, you know. You just don't want to use them slushily.\"\n\nThe cover of the single features the old Liverpool Speke Airport building. The airport is famous as the scene at which thousands of hysterical fans greeted The Beatles on their return to Liverpool at the height of Beatlemania. Derelict at the time, it has now been turned into a hotel. The aeroplane is an Avro Lancastrian.\n\nThe song is analysed by philosopher Roger Scruton in his book \"Modern Culture\", in particular with reference to the line: \"Damn my education, I can't find the words to say /\nAbout the things caught in my mind\". Scruton writes, \"Here, encrypted within the routine protest, is a more strangulated cry—a protest against the impossibility of protest. Trapped as he is in a culture that treats articulate utterance as a capitulation to the adult world, the singer can find no words to express what most deeply concerns him. Something is lacking in his world—but he cannot say what. He excites his fans to every kind of artificial ecstasy, knowing that nothing will be changed for them or him, that the void will always remain unfilled\".\n\nThe live version of \"Cigarettes & Alcohol\" was recorded 14 December 1997 at the G-MEX Exhibition Centre in Oasis' home town of Manchester.\n\n\"Sad Song\" originally appeared as a bonus track on the vinyl release of the first Oasis album, \"Definitely Maybe\". It also appeared on the Japanese CD edition of \"Definitely Maybe\".\n\nThe 'Warchild' version of \"Fade Away\" is from \"The Help Album\" recorded in September 1995. It features Noel on vocals, and guests Johnny Depp on guitar, Kate Moss on tambourine and Liam and Lisa Moorish on backing vocals. All proceeds from that track went to Warchild Charities.\n\nThe video to \"Don't Go Away\" shows the band in a house whilst changing sizes. One part of the video shows many versions of Liam Gallagher floating whilst holding an umbrella. The video was directed by Nigel Dick and was filmed on August 11th and 12th, 1997 in Chertsey and London, UK.\n\nCD – Epic/Sony Music / ESCA-6948 Japan\n\nCD (Promo) – Epic / ESK 2591 United States\n\nCD (Promo) – Sony Music / SAMPCS 5140 France\n\nOasis\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nKate Rusby recorded the song for her 2019 album \"Philosophers, Poets & Kings\". Rusby had previously performed the song live on Jo Whiley's BBC Radio show in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1816197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816197", "title": "Wolgast", "text": "Wolgast\n\nWolgast () is a town in the district of Vorpommern-Greifswald, in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany. It is situated on the bank of the river (or strait) Peenestrom, vis-a-vis the island of Usedom on the Baltic coast that can be accessed by road and railway via a movable bascule bridge (\"Blaues Wunder\"). In December 2004, the town had a population of 12,725.\n\nThe precursor of present-day Wolgast was a Slavic Wendish stronghold located on an island within the Peenestrom sound. Contemporary sources called it \"Hologost(a), Ologost, Woligost, Woligast, Wologost, Wolegast, Wolegust, Walagost(um), Walogost(um), Waløgost(um), Waloguslum, Walagust, Walegusth, Walægust, Walgust, Wolgast, Valagust, Wołogoszcz\" or \"Valegust\". Wilhelm Ferdinand Gadebusch traces the name through Wendish to mean a \"large grove\". It is unclear which of the tribes documented in the area the population belonged to, the Veleti/Lutici or Rani. In 1123/24, prince Henry of the Obodrites used the stronghold as a stepping stone in his campaign against the Rani.\n\nIn 1128, after the Pomeranian duke Wartislaw I had subdued the area, the Wends were baptized by Otto of Bamberg on his second Pomeranian mission, while Wartislaw was also present in the stronghold. In this context, Wolgast was described as a \"opulentissima civitas\" by the chronicler Ebo, it is however unclear whether this should be read as meaning opulent or mighty \"castle\" or \"town\". Otto destroyed a local temple devoted to Gerowit, a god of war, and replaced it with a church. The thesis that this first church was a predecessor of today's St. Peter's church has not yet been confirmed.\n\nWolgast was made the seat of a Pomeranian castellany, and played an important role in the 12th-century warfare between Pomeranians, Rani and the Danes. In 1162, Wolgast was targeted by an allied Danish-Rani fleet, and temporarily had to accept Danish suzerainty. In 1164, in the context of the battle of Verchen, a Danish force took control of Wolgast, and left it to a mixed Rani-Pomeranian-Obrodite garrison after peace was restored. Yet, the Rani (the Danish allies) were soon expelled by the Pomeranians, and the Obodrites (also Danish allies) left the scene. The Danes attacked Wolgast again in the summer of 1167, and again either in late 1167 or in 1168, and devastated the area. In 1177, another Danish assault on Wolgast failed, but a campaign in 1179 was successful, though the Danish fleet accepted money instead of a surrender. In 1184, Wolgast was unsuccessfully besieged by the Danes, but finally came under Danish control in 1185 when the Pomeranian duke accepted Danish suzerainty. While the Danes lost control over most of Pomerania in 1227, Wolgast remained a Danish bridgehead until either 1241/43 or 1250.\n\nOn the mainland opposite to island with the castle, a new planned town was built in the course of the Ostsiedlung. It is not known when exactly this city of Wolgast was granted German town law, though its existence is confirmed by a letter written in or before 1259. The original charter was issued by both Pomeranian dukes of the time, Wartislaw III and Barnim I, and a confirmation of the Lübeck law was issued in 1282 by duke Bogislaw IV.\n\nWolgast was residence of the Pomeranian dukes from 1285 until the ruling House of Pomerania became extinct in 1637. Capital of \"Pomerania-Wolgast\", a longtime inner partition of the duchy, Wolgast Castle was built as a residential palace in Renaissance style on an island hence called \"Castle Island\". The ducal line of Pomerania-Wolgast became extinct when Philipp Julius died without issue.\n\nDuring the Thirty Years' War, the Swedish Empire occupied Wolgast in 1630 and kept it as a part of Swedish Pomerania until 1815. The former ducal palace decayed, and the town was burned down in 1713 by Russian forces during the Great Northern War, in retaliation for Swedish arson in Altona. Only the church, four chapels and four more buildings were spared by the fire. Most houses of the Old Town therefore date back to the 18th and 19th centuries, the townhall was renewed after the fire in baroque style.\n\nAfter the Swedish withdrawal from Pomerania in 1815, the city was integrated into the Prussian Province of Pomerania. Last remnants of the palace were removed in 1849. Wolgast prospered throughout the 19th century as a port for grain trade.\n\nWolgast lost its status as a Kreis capital on 12 June 1994, when Kreis Wolgast was merged into Kreis Ostvorpommern, which became part of Vorpommern-Greifswald in 2011.\n\nThe town's history is presented in the \"Stadtgeschichtliches Museum\" (Towns' historical museum) in a building at the market place nicknamed \"Kaffeemühle\". The former house of painter Philipp Otto Runge is also a museum by now (\"Rungemuseum\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816198", "title": "Wycombe (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Wycombe (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWycombe is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Steve Baker, a Conservative.\n\nThe constituency shares similar borders with Wycombe local government district, although it covers a slightly smaller area. The main town within the constituency, High Wycombe contains many working/middle class voters and a sizeable ethnic minority population that totals around one quarter of the town's population, with some census output areas of town home to over 50% ethnic minorities, and a number of wards harbouring a considerable Labour vote. The surrounding villages, which account for just under half of the electorate, are some of the most wealthy areas in the country, with extremely low unemployment, high incomes and favour the Conservatives. Workless claimants totalled 3.0% of the population in November 2012, lower than the national average of 3.8%.\n\nThe Parliamentary Borough of Chipping Wycombe had continuously returned two MPs to the House of Commons since the Model Parliament of 1295. This was reduced to 1 MP by the Representation of the People Act 1867 and the Borough was abolished altogether by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. It was transformed into a large county division, formally named the Southern or Wycombe Division of Buckinghamshire. It was one of three divisions formed from the undivided three-member Parliamentary County of Buckinghamshire, the other two being the Mid or Aylesbury Division and the Northern or Buckingham Division. As well as the abolished Borough, it absorbed the abolished Parliamentary Borough of Great Marlow and included the towns of Beaconsfield and Slough.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Chepping Wycombe, the Sessional Divisions of Burnham and Stoke, and parts of the first and second Sessional Divisions of Desborough.\n\n1918–1945: The Municipal Borough of Chepping Wycombe, the Urban Districts of Eton, Marlow, and Slough, the Rural Districts of Eton and Hambleden, and part of the Rural District of Wycombe.\n\nBeaconsfield was transferred to Aylesbury.  Gained Eton which had been part of the abolished Parliamentary Borough of New Windsor in Berkshire.\n\n1945–1950: The Municipal Borough of Chepping Wycombe, the Urban District of Marlow, and the Rural District of Wycombe.\n\nThe House of Commons (Redistribution of Seats) Act 1944 set up Boundaries Commissions to carry out periodic reviews of the distribution of parliamentary constituencies. It also authorised an initial review to subdivide abnormally large constituencies in time for the 1945 election. This was implemented by the Redistribution of Seats Order 1945 under which Buckinghamshire was allocated an additional seat. As a consequence, the new County Constituency of Eton and Slough was formed from the Wycombe constituency, comprising the Municipal Borough of Slough and the Urban and Rural Districts of Eton. In compensation, the parts of the (revised) Rural District of Wycombe in the Aylesbury Division, including Hughenden and Princes Risborough, were transferred to Wycombe.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of High Wycombe, the Urban District of Marlow, and the Rural District of Wycombe.\n\nNo changes to boundaries.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Borough of High Wycombe, the Urban District of Marlow, and in the Rural District of Wycombe the parishes of Chepping Wycombe, Fawley, Fingest and Lane End, Great Marlow, Hambleden, Hughenden, Little Marlow, Medmenham, Turville, and West Wycombe Rural.\n\nNorthern parts of the Rural District of Wycombe, including Princes Risborough, but excluding Hughenden, transferred back to Aylesbury.  Wooburn included in the new County Constituency of Beaconsfield.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Wycombe wards of Booker and Castlefield, Bowerdean and Daws Hill, Cressex and Frogmoor, Downley, Great Marlow, Green Hill and Totteridge, Hambleden Valley, Hughenden Valley, Keep Hill and Hicks Farm, Kingshill, Lane End and Piddington, Little Marlow, Marlow Bottom, Marlow North, Marlow South, Marsh and Micklefield, Oakridge and Tinkers Wood, and West Wycombe and Sands.\n\nAreas to the east of High Wycombe (former parish of Chepping Wycombe) transferred to Beaconsfield.  Hazlemere transferred to Chesham and Amersham.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Wycombe wards of Booker and Castlefield, Bowerdean and Daws Hill, Cressex and Frogmoor, Downley, Great Marlow, Green Hill and Totteridge, Hambleden Valley, Hughenden Valley, Keep Hill and Hicks Farm, Kingshill, Lane End and Piddington, Marlow Bottom, Marlow North, Marlow South, Marsh and Micklefield, Oakridge and Tinkers Wood, and West Wycombe and Sands.\n\nMinor changes.\n\n2010–present: The District of Wycombe wards of Abbey, Booker and Cressex, Bowerdean, Chiltern Rise, Disraeli, Downley and Plomer Hill, Greater Marlow, Hambleden Valley, Hazlemere North, Hazlemere South, Micklefield, Oakridge and Castlefield, Ryemead, Sands, Terriers and Amersham Hill, Totteridge, and Tylers Green and Loudwater.\n\nHazlemere transferred back from Chesham and Amersham.  Marlow transferred to Beaconsfield and Hughenden to Aylesbury.\n\n \n\n\n\n\nA general election was expected 1939/40 and by 1939 the following had been adopted as candidates;\nIn 1938, the local Labour and Liberal parties had set up a formal organisation, 'The South Bucks Unity Committee' in support of a Popular Front and may well have agreed to support a joint candidate against the sitting Conservative.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816201", "title": "Traffic exchange", "text": "Traffic exchange\n\nA traffic exchange is a type of website which provides a service for webmasters in exchange for traffic. It is similar to the autosurf concept with the exception that traffic exchanges usually use a manual rotation.\n\nA traffic exchange website receives website submissions from webmasters that join \"traffic exchange networks\". The person who submitted the website then has to browse other member sites on the exchange program to earn credits, which enable their sites to be viewed by other members through the surf system. This increases the number of visitors to all the sites involved.\n\nExchanges enforce a certain credit ratio, which illustrates the number of websites the surfer must view in order to receive one hit through the program for their promoted website. Many sites offer the ability to upgrade one's membership level for a more equal credit ratio.\n\nAs the viewers are all website owners or affiliates, it is possible that some might find certain member sites interesting and thus make note of them on their own sites, sending more traffic their way. Most traffic programs also impose a time limit when members are browsing, ranging from 10 seconds to 60 seconds. Some incorporate the use of captcha to ensure user interaction.\n\nAlmost all traffic exchange programs are free, although many of them offer special features to paid members and offer credits for purchase. Almost all traffic exchange programs encourage users to build their own referral networks, which in turn increases the referrers' number of credits.\n\nThe traffic generated in a traffic exchange can be leveraged by using a downline builder to assist the user in building a referral network in the many different traffic exchanges.\n\nIn practice, traffic exchange programs are generally used by small business owners or marketers who either want free advertising or use the exchange programs for low-budget advertisement campaigns.\n\nTraffic Exchanges date back to the beginning of the web and were primarily used by organizations to share sites between employees. Viewers would rate pages in a similar fashion to the now popular social bookmarking phenomenon. When interesting websites were hard to find a traffic exchange for an organization new to the web proved an invaluable tool.\n\nCirca 1994 traffic exchanges moved from corporate intranets to the web. In an effort to build communities the concept of rating pages was replaced with rewarding members for viewing.\n\nIt was 1996 before traffic exchanges began to charge for traffic and around this time the concept changed from a tool for locating interesting sites to a commercial one. This change in direction resulted in increased popularity at the expense of the content which is now almost exclusively commerce.\n\nMost people use Traffic Exchange programs to increase their site visit rate. Traffic Exchange programs offer both the Auto and Manual Surf options with a timing of 3 to 60 seconds. An 'autosurf' program requires no human intervention to rotate the sites in the database, and is used primarily to inflate the total number of site hits. This practice is rather controversial as it may skew the results of website popularity. People's main reason behind joining a Traffic Exchange program is to promote products and services to like minded marketers. A factor which may negatively influence the ranking is the Bounce Rate. If a website or blog has a high bounce rate then it will be considered that people are not interested in the content. The Bounce Rate is calculated by the average rate a visitor stayed on the site. So whereas the Traffic Exchange sites increase the site visit rate, on the other hand they also increase the bounce rate.\nTop Traffic Exchange websites: Funexchange TrafficVirals Freehittraffic 10khits.com Rankboost.com HITvsHIT.com\n\nGoogle disallows using AdSense on Traffic Exchanges. Users who wish to advertise their websites on a traffic exchange but also have AdSense ads should create separate pages for advertising in traffic exchanges that do not have AdSense ads.\n"}
{"id": "1816209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816209", "title": "Zhao Wei", "text": "Zhao Wei\n\nZhao Wei (born 12 March 1976), also known as Vicky Zhao or Vicki Zhao, is a Chinese actress, businesswoman, film director, producer and pop singer. She is considered one of the most popular actresses in China and Chinese-speaking regions, and one of the highest paid actresses.\n\nWhile studying at the Beijing Film Academy, Zhao rose to national and regional prominence overnight for her role as Xiao Yanzi (\"Little Swallow\") in the hit TV series \"My Fair Princess\" (1998–1999), for which she also won Golden Eagle Award for Best Actress. \"My Fair Princess\" enjoyed unprecedented success in East and Southeast Asian countries, and Zhao is regarded by many as Mainland China's first \"national idol\" since the economic reform began in 1978.\n\nOver her 20 years acting career, Zhao has starred in many box-office hits, including \"Shaolin Soccer\" (2001), \"Red Cliff\" (2008–2009), \"Painted Skin\" (2008), \"\" (2012), \"Dearest\" (2014) and \"Lost in Hong Kong\" (2015). She has received numerous awards from the Shanghai International Film Festival, Huabiao Awards, Changchun Film Festival, Hundred Flowers Awards and Shanghai Film Critics Awards for films like \"A Time to Love\" (2005) and \"Mulan\" (2009). In 2014, after almost a two-year break from acting, she appeared in Peter Chan's film \"Dearest\", and won the Hong Kong Film Critics Society Award and Hong Kong Film Award for Best Actress.\n\nWhile focusing mostly on films, her works also include TV series such as \"Romance in the Rain\" (2001), \"Moment in Peking\" (2005) and \"Tiger Mom\" (2015). She has a music career, starting with her debut album \"Swallow\" (1999), and has released 7 albums. In 2006, she won the MTV Asia Award for Favorite Artist from Mainland China, for her album \"Double\".\n\nZhao ranked 80th on \"Forbes\" China Celebrity 100 list in 2013, 22nd in 2014, 7th in 2015, and 28th in 2017.\n\nZhao received her master's degree of Film Directing from Beijing Film Academy in 2012. Her directorial debut \"So Young\" (2013) was both a box office and critical success. It broke the box office record for films directed by female Chinese directors in a week, and eventually became one of the highest-grossing films in China. The movie earned her multiple awards in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, including Golden Rooster Award for Best Directorial Debut, Hundred Flowers Award for Best Director and Hong Kong Film Award for Best Film from Mainland and Taiwan.\n\nIn 2016, Zhao was named as member of the main Jury at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival.\n\nIn September 2017, she was named as a member of the main competition jury for the 30th Tokyo International Film Festival.\n\nBorn and brought up in Wuhu, Anhui, Zhao is the second child to Zhao Jiahai (), an engineer, and Wei Qiying (), a primary school teacher, She has an elder brother Zhao Jian (; born 1971). After secondary school, Zhao entered Wuhu Normal School, a local education institution training students to become pre-school teachers. She also received training in piano, dance, and Chinese ink wash painting.\n\nIn 1993, while Zhao was still in school, the movie \"A Soul Haunted by Painting\" (1994), directed by Huang Shuqin, starring Gong Li and Derek Yee, was filming in Wuhu. Zhao was cast for a cameo role, a young prostitute in the brothel where Gong's character works. This was her first acting experience. She appeared briefly at the beginning of the film and had no dialogue.\n\nZhao developed a strong interests in acting after this first experience, and decided to become an actress. In 1994, after graduating from the Wuhu Normal School, she gave up her job as an apprentice pre-school teacher. She moved from her hometown to Shanghai and enrolled in Xie Jin Star Academy, an acting school founded by the Chinese director Xie Jin, where she received structured acting training during 1994–1995. She was also selected by Xie to star in his movie \"Penitentiary Angel\" (1996). This was her first substantial role. Though she did not find her own performance fulfilling, Zhao considered it a valuable experience and a good start to her career. The film landed her other roles in TV series including her first leading role in \"Sisters in Beijing\" (1996). \"I was too young to understand the role,\" she said, \"but if you've been cast in a film by a famous director, no matter how well you did, other less-famous directors will also want to cast you.\"\n\nIn 1996, Zhao was admitted to the School of Performing Arts, Beijing Film Academy (BFA) with the highest score nation-wide. She graduated 4 years later with Bachelor Degree of Performing Arts from BFA as one of the most outstanding graduates – Zhao scored five \"A\"s and nine \"A-\"s out of the 14 courses. Her graduation thesis scored 90 (out of 100).\n\nIn 1997, renowned novelist and producer Chiung Yao was casting for the TV series \"My Fair Princess\", a joint production by mainland China and Taiwan which was adapted from Chiung Yao's own novel. She identified Zhao Wei as a talent after watching \"Sisters in Beijing\" and offered Zhao the title role of Huan Zhu Ge Ge (Princess Pearl) a.k.a. Xiao Yanzi (\"Little Swallow\"), a rebellious and funny princess who dared to challenge authority and rules in the palace. Filming the series was an arduous task for Zhao and her co-stars; Zhao herself acknowledged the intensity of filming: \n\nThe hard work of the cast yielded unexpected results. This comedic period drama quickly became a phenomenal sensation and swept TV ratings in Taiwan, mainland China, Hong Kong and Southeast Asian countries such as Singapore and Vietnam. Zhao rose to prominence and became a household name overnight. In 1999, she became the youngest actress to win the Golden Eagle Award for Best Actress. She was regarded by many as mainland China's first \"national idol\", and was named one of Taiwan's \"Top Ten Most Outstanding Individuals in Television Industry\". She is also regarded as one of China's Four Dan Actresses. However, alongside the phenomenal success were increasingly negative critics in mainland China, attacking the rebellious role as a \"bad influence\" over children. During the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in 2002, a member of the CPPCC submit a proposal to boycott the \"little swallow\". \nZhao once again worked with Chiung Yao for the 2001 television series \"Romance in the Rain\", a costume drama set in the 1930s and 1940s. In this series, Zhao played a vengeful girl who tried to exact revenge against her parents. The series was a commercial success, and recorded the highest ratings of the year.\n\nZhao soon felt that she had achieved all she could in television and began to shift her career focus from TV to films.\n\nZhao went on to star a few Hong Kong movies. In 2001, she starred in the comedy film \"Shaolin Soccer\" alongside Hong Kong actor and director Stephen Chow. Zhao played an ugly-duckling steamed bun-maker-cum-taichi-master, a great contrast from the glamorous image she had established for herself in previous roles. Zhao was nominated at the Chinese Film Media Award for Best Actress. This was followed up by a supporting role in \"Chinese Odyssey 2002\" as \"Phoenix\", for which she nominated Golden Horse Award for Best Supporting Actress. In 2002, Zhao played an assassin in \"So Close\", which also stars Shu Qi and Karen Mok.\n\nIn 2003, Zhao starred in four films: \"My Dream Girl\", \"Warriors of Heaven and Earth\", \"Green Tea\", and \"Jade Goddess of Mercy\". After much speculation over who was cast for the female lead An Xin in Ann Hui's film \"Jade Goddess of Mercy\", the role was finally offered to Zhao, and her performance was well received by critics. In 2004, the Chinese Association of Film Performing Arts presented her the Golden Phoenix Award for this role. She was also nominated at the 27th Hundred Flowers Award for Best Actress for her performance in \"Warriors of Heaven and Earth\".\n\nIn 2004, Zhao was cast to dub the character Princess Fiona when \"Shrek 2\" was released in China.\n\nThe year 2005 proved to be another successful year for Zhao. She won the Golden Goblet Award for Best Actress at the Shanghai International Film Festival and tied with Zhang Ziyi for the Huabiao Award. Both awards were for her performance in \"A Time to Love\". Zhao once again won Best Actress for the film at the 8th Changchun Film Festival in 2006.\n\nAfter a four-year break from television series, Zhao starred as Yao Mulan in a remake of Lin Yutang's \"Moment in Peking\" (2005). The television series became Zhao's fourth TV drama (after \"My Fair Princess\", \"My Fair Princess 2\" and \"Romance in the Rain\") to become the highest rated drama of the year. Zhao was nominated at the 26th Flying Apsaras Awards for Outstanding Actress.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Moment in Peking\", Zhao starred in \"The Postmodern Life of My Aunt\", which premiered at film festivals around the world, including the Toronto International Film Festival. Though Zhao only appeared ten minutes in the film, her performance led her to be nominated at the 43rd Golden Horse Awards and the 27th Hong Kong Film Awards for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nIn 2006, Zhao made a surprising move by sitting for the national entrance exam for postgraduate studies. After passing with flying colours, Zhao returned to her alma mater, the Beijing Film Academy (BFA) in September 2006 as a postgraduate student in the Department of Film Directing, where she studied under director Tian Zhuangzhuang. That year, Zhao was ranked No.4 on \"Forbes\" 2006 China Celebrity 100 list. She was also selected as the \"Most Beautiful Woman\" in China through a national voting by Sina.com & Sohu.com's users. \"People\" magazine also listed Zhao as \"100 Most Beautiful People\" in 2006.\n\nZhao then portrayed a cabby in the 2007 film \"The Longest Night in Shanghai\", starring alongside Masahiro Motoki and Dylan Kuo. The same year, Zhao starred in the television series \"Thank You for Having Loved Me\". She reportedly received a salary of 100,000 yuan per episode.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2009, Zhao starred in John Woo's historical epic \"Red Cliff\". Set in the Three Kingdoms period, the film was mainland China's most expensive production then. She played Sun Shangxiang, the independent-minded sister of warlord Sun Quan, who disguises herself as a male enemy soldier to gather intelligence. Zhao received two nominations at the Hong Kong Film Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nShe next appeared in Gordon Chan's horror-adventure film \"Painted Skin\" (2008). The film set a new milestone in Chinese film by grossing 100 million yuan in six days. Zhao's role as a general's wife was particularly acclaimed, and she received Best Actress nominations at the 27th Golden Rooster Award and 3rd Asian Film Award.\n\nIn 2009, Zhao played the legendary character Hua Mulan in Jingle Ma's \"Mulan\".\nJingle Ma called Zhao the \"perfect fit\" for the cross-dressing heroine. Zhao won the Best Actress Award at the 10th Changchun Film Festival, 30th Hundred Flowers Awards and 19th Shanghai Film Critics Awards for her performance in the film.\n\nOn 6 August 2009, she was elected vice-president of China Film Performance Art Academy and executive member of the council of the China Environmental Society.\n\nAfter filming the wuxia film \"14 Blades\" alongside Donnie Yen, Zhao took a 2-year break from acting in the middle of 2010. On 11 April 2010, she gave birth to a girl, Huang Xin, the only child of her and businessman Huang Youlong, whom she married in 2008.\n\nIn June 2010, she returned to limelight as a jury member of the 13th Shanghai International Film Festival.\n\nZhao returned from her extended parental leave in 2012, playing, incidentally, a single mother in \"Love\", directed by Doze Niu. The film also achieved commercial success, and became the only film to gross 100 million yuan in both Taiwan and mainland China. Critics call the solo performance of Zhao Wei as \"the most amazing scene\". The same year she starred in \"\", the sequel to the 2008 film \"Painted Skin\". The film grossed over 700 million yuan to become the highest grossing Chinese film then, before being beaten by \"Lost in Thailand\".\n\nIn 2012, she graduated from the directing institute of Beijing Film Academy, with an MFA dissertation defense score of 99/100, ranking No. 1 out of all the graduates.\n\nHer directorial debut, \"So Young\", opened on 26 April 2013 to 141 million yuan in its first weekend. She was the first female director whose debut film broke 100 million yuan in China. In just one week, \"So Young\" garnered 350 million yuan, with the final box office record in China being over 700 million yuan. For the film, Zhao won the Golden Rooster Award for Best Directorial Debut, Hundred Flowers Award for Best Director and Hong Kong Film Award for Best Film from Mainland and Taiwan.\n\nZhao also became a judge for the 5th season of \"China's Got Talent\" alongside Liu Ye, Alec Su and Wang Wei Chun.\n\nZhao returned to acting in 2014, playing a countrywoman in the film \"Dearest\", directed by Peter Chan. The movie was selected by the 71st Venice International Film Festival in the Out-of-competition category, and Zhao's performance as a foster mother of illegally kidnapped children received international acclaim. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" called her Chinese Juliette Binoche. This movie also earned Zhao the Hong Kong Film Award and Hong Kong Film Critics Society Award for Best Actress.\n\nIn 2015, she starred in comedies \"Hollywood Adventures\" and \"Lost in Hong Kong\", both of which were commercially successful. Forbes described Zhao as the \"world's wealthiest working actress\". The same year, Zhao made her return to television in \"Tiger Mom\". She was nominated at the Asian Television Award and Magnolia Award for Best Actress in a Television Series. On 20 October, Zhao elected as executive member of Executive Committee of China Film Directors' Guild.\n\nIn 2016, Zhao played a doctor in Johnnie To's crime thriller film \"Three\". She also began the production for her second directorial work \"No Other Love\". In July, she was named as a member of the main competition jury for the 73rd Venice International Film Festival.\n\nIn February 2017, Zhao went back to her alma mater – School of Performing Arts, Beijing Film Academy – to be the finale round examiner/assessor of applicants for the 2017 intake. The entrance exam is said to be the most challenging one for students pursuing performing arts whereby the success ratio is 1:113. In September, she was named as a member of the main competition jury for the 30th Tokyo International Film Festival.\n\nIn March 2018, Zhao Wei was named as a member of the finale-round jury for the 9th China Film Directors Guild Award. She also appointed as official spokesperson of the 12th Xining FIRST International Film Festival. On 17 Oct, CCTV announced Zhao as the chief director of the documentary \"Starlight\", presented by China Movie Channel.\n\nAs the protagonist Catherine, Zhao made her stage debut with public theater production adapted from David Auburn's 2001 broadway play, directed by Tian Zhuangzhuang. \"The Proof\" opened in Beijing at the Tianqiao Art Center on 23 January 2019 and critically acclaimed.\n\nAfter two known relationships, Zhao Wei married Chinese businessman Huang You Long () in 2008 in Singapore. The couple's daughter, Huang Xing () was born in April 2010.\n\nZhao is close friends with Chinese singers Faye Wong and Na Ying.\n\nZhao is a well-known wine lover and has a passion for winemaking. On 21 December 2011, French newspaper \"Sud Ouest\" reported that Zhao had bought Château Monlot, a Saint-Émilion Grand Cru, at 4 million euro. On 16 September 2012, Zhao Wei was admitted into the Jurade de Saint-Émilion. After 4 years of work, in October 2015, the winery launched the Bordeaux wine brand in the Chinese mass market. The online shop offers both high end and affordable wine selections.\n\nZhao has been actively involved in charity and disaster relief work. Her notable charity work and donations include:\n\n\nZhao has been a regular subject of tabloids. In 2001, Zhao did a group of photos for the August issue of fashion magazine L'Offciel China. In one photo, Zhao was wearing a designer dress (Heatherette NYC label, designed by Richie Rich). The dress assembled a pattern similar to the Japanese military flag during the WWII. Four months later, in Dec 2001, one of the local evening newspaper started to question and criticize the photo. Still torn by Japan's crimes to China during the WWII, the newspaper quickly provoked a public outcry, and more media joined to attack Zhao. Some called to ban her work and prohibit her from show business. On 9 December, the newspaper Beijing Evening News and network Sina.com published Zhao's apology letter to the nation. On 17 December, Zhao again apologized on the television show \"Entertainment Live;\" the apology was broadcast on 200 television networks and 100 radio stations in China.\n\nDifferent opinions and questions started to surface over the magazine editors' negligence and choice of dress. There were also suspicions that the incident was a set-up to ruin Zhao's career. On 28 December 2001, during her performance at a concert, Zhao was attacked on stage by Fu Shenghua, a construction worker who later said his grandparents were killed during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Reflecting upon his actions, Fu told a Chinese magazine: \"I know what I did wasn't right. But I believe my cause was just... As a famous Chinese person, she should have been aware of such an important event in Chinese history.\" Later, a Chinese newspaper, \"Beijing Youth Daily\" published a special report after a two-month investigation and alleged that Fu had lied to the media, claiming that no one in his family had died during the war and that he was not a construction worker but instead had been unemployed for several years. The journalist noted that it was difficult to have conversations with Fu due to his alleged extremist views. More and more people started to believe that the incident was a set-up and the public views started shifting more empathetically towards Zhao. After this report was published, the hype surrounding the incident died down and the Chinese media seldom mentioned it again.\n\nIn July 2004, Zhao was embroiled in further controversy when a woman named Zou Xue accused Zhao of assaulting her in a restaurant over a business dispute. Zhao and Zou had been business partners, and opened a bar together in Beijing. Zou claimed that Zhao had instructed her chauffeur to hit Zou after a business dispute. Zou filed a lawsuit demanding compensation as well as a public apology. Zhao denied hitting Zou, but the public were not on Zhao's side. However, the incident quickly had a dramatic twist when the media investigated that Zou's medical check-up report was fake, and was produced by a hospital managed by her family members. The court then rejected Zou's lawsuit against Zhao. In addition, people found that Zou was the L'Offciel editor who stepped down due to the \"Japanese flag\" incident. The public was more convinced that the \"Japanese flag\" incident was a set-up and Zou was somehow involved. Zhao regained the public's support.\n\nZhao completed her second directorial feature \"No Other Love\" in June 2016. On 1 July 2016, the Communist Youth League used its own website and social media to criticize Zhao over the male cast and Taiwanese director-actor Leon Dai's alleged support for Taiwanese independence. Its posting on Weibo called for a boycott of the movie. Following the call, China's nationalists and nationalist unions started to attack Zhao for being a \"public enemy\" and \"traitor\" to the nation. The nationalists also branded Zhao as an \"American spy\", citing Zhao had taken a photo and shaken hands with Hillary Clinton at the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves Future Summit in Manhattan, US on 20 November 2014. In early July, both Dai and Zhao and their movie production studios issued apology statements but the nationalists continued to attack them. On 15 July 2016, under online assault, Zhao apologized, and the movie studio also announced its plan to replace Dai. The incident generated much debate online, and some famous Chinese writers, professors and filmmakers, including Fang Fang, Sai Ren, Shi Hang, Yan Feng, He Ping, Chen Guoxing, along with People's Daily's social media and China Newsweek (present by China News Service) categorically denounced the online abuse and/or voiced their support for Zhao.\n\nIn November 2018 the Shanghai Stock Exchange banned Zhao and her husband from company boards for five years due to a failed bid to buy a 29.1% stake of the mobile company Zhejiang Wanjia by Tibet Longwei, a company they controlled, in 2016. It was stated that they made the bid lacking the financial resources and their bid disrupted the market order.\n\nAlongside her acting career, Zhao has become actively involved in commercial work. In 2001, she was selected as one of \"China's Top Ten Most Popular Commercial Models\", the culmination of her work for Red Earth and Amoisonic Mobile Phone. The same year, Zhao was ranked second on \"China's Top 10 Artists for Advertisements\" list. South Korean television network KBS ranked Zhao number one in China and Japan and number two in South Korea, crowning her \"Commercial Queen in 3 countries\".\n\nOn several occasions, Zhao has been praised by the media for her sense of style. At the Lycra Channel Young Awards (now known as the China Fashion Awards), Zhao was chosen as the \"Most Stylish Actress\" in mainland China. The same year, MTV China also selected Zhao as the \"Most Stylish Asian Actress\". Zhao also garnered another fashion award at the 2004 Pierre Cardin Awards. Zhao was awarded the \"Most Stylish Female Artist\" and \"Most Stylish Actor\" at the China Fashion Award (CFA) in 2005. In 2007, Zhao won her the third \"Most Stylish Actor\" in China Fashion Awards. The same year, she won \"Most Stylish Female Artist\" at the MTV China Style Gala.\n\nAs of 18 April 2011, Zhao is climbing up the ranks of the most followed microbloggers worldwide. Her fan count has exceeded six million, bringing her ever-closer to American celebrities Ellen DeGeneres, Ashton Kutcher and Katy Perry, all of whom also recently surpassed the six million fan mark.\n\nWei and her husband purchased stakes in Alibaba Pictures in 2014, leading to tens of millions of dollars in gains over the next two years. Near the end of 2016, her company Longwei Culture & Media purchased control of Zhejiang People Culture, a Chinese animation studio and mobile gaming company listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, for . Although the acquiring company have answered the Shanghai Stock Exchange questions, several mainland China media and some netizens still boycott it, regard the buyout by a female actor as \"the hen cackles in the morning\". Furthermore, nationalists combined with ultra-left media attack Zhao continuously. Finally, original banks quit for \"uncertainty\", causing the acquisition to fail.\n\n\n\n\nFrom 2013 to 2014, Zhao as the spokeswoman of Samsung Galaxy Note 3. From 2012 to 2017, Zhao as the official ambassador of Jaeger-LeCoultre. Since 2018, Zhao selected as official brand ambassador of Burberry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816226", "title": "Bat World Sanctuary", "text": "Bat World Sanctuary\n\nBat World Sanctuary was founded in 1994 as a non-profit rescue-rehabilitation center and sanctuary operated exclusively for bats. Based in North Texas, the organization is \"dedicated to educating the community about bats to dispel myths and encourage conservation as well as providing rescue efforts for the species\". It is one of several bat conservation organizations active in the United States and has been described as \"the largest bat rescue center on the planet.\"\n\nThe founder of Bat World Sanctuary, Amanda Lollar, was inspired to start the organization in 1988, when she discovered an injured Mexican free-tailed bat on her way to the bank. She put it in a box with food and water so that it could die a peaceful death, but the bat recovered and lived for another two-and-a-half years. Lollar named the bat \"Sunshine,\" and sometimes refers to the sanctuary as \"Sunshine's legacy.\" In 1995, Lollar published \"The Bat in my Pocket: A Memorable Friendship,\" a book about her experiences with Sunshine and Bat World Sanctuary.\n\nThe original Bat World Sanctuary was created in a historic retail building in downtown Mineral Wells, Texas. In 1992, a wild sanctuary was started just a block away from the Bat World facility. It was sited in a two-story apartment building that was built in 1899, and had been vacant for years. Lollar purchased the building when she heard that the owner was selling it and planned to exterminate residing bats as part of the process. The hand-hewn sandstone construction of the building had crumbled over time, leaving cracks and openings ideal for bats to inhabit. Two years later, in 1994, the sanctuary for non-releasable bats was officially founded as a non-profit organization.\n\nBat World Sanctuary is accredited with both the Global Federation of Animal Sanctuaries and the American Sanctuary Association. In 2016, Lollar received The Carol Noon Award for Sanctuary Excellence.\n\nIn June 2012, Bat World Sanctuary was awarded 6.1 million dollars in damages in its defamation lawsuit against a former intern. In April 2015, the Second Court of Appeals upheld the Judgement against the intern.\n\nBat World Sanctuary has been described as \"the largest bat rescue center on the planet,\" with an estimated 100,000 Mexican free-tails inhabiting the wild sanctuary, plus a seasonal maternity colony of about 20,000 females who move in each spring. The Bat World Sanctuary facility holds about 400 non-releasable bats who live there permanently.\n\nThere is a clinic inside Bat World Sanctuary that serves as a rehabilitation center for sick or injured bats. It is a simulated natural habitat with different features that cater to specific types of bat in order to lower the stresses that bats experience from being captive. Annually, as many as 1,500 rehabilitated bats are released back to the wild.\n\nLollar and the staff at the sanctuary have also launched a bat house project, where they would remove unwanted bats from local buildings free of charge as long as the building owners agreed to hang bat houses close to where the bats formerly entered the buildings. The bat houses were also provided for free through the program.\n\nObservations by Bat World Sanctuary Founder Amanda Lollar and Bat Conservation International led researchers at the University of Texas at Austin and Texas A&M University to conclude that male bats create songs to attract females and warn other males to stay away. The sanctuary has also hosted a colony of bats to assist with research conducted at the University of Colorado Denver, and has assisted scientists at Cornell University in the study of acoustic mimicry of visual warning signals by echolocating bats.\n"}
{"id": "1816232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816232", "title": "Etugen Eke", "text": "Etugen Eke\n\nEtügen Eke (\"Mother Earth\", also transliterated variously as Itügen or Etügen Ekhe) is a Mongolian ( — Etügen ekh) and Turkic earth goddess. She was believed to be perpetually virginal. In Mongolian language, the word \"etugen\" associates with woman and daughter of Kayra. Also her name may originated from Ötüken, the holy mountain of the earth and fertility goddess of the ancient Turks. Medieval sources sometimes pair Etugen with a male counterpart named Natigai or Nachigai (Natikai, Natıkay), although this is probably a mistake based on a mispronunciation of Etugen. In Mongol mythology Etugen is often represented as a young woman riding a grey bull.\n\nEtugen existed in the middle of the Universe. The Turkish people depicted Etugen as a voluptuous, beautiful woman, who was patroness of the Homeland and nature. All living beings were subordinate to her. Therefore, the Turkish people viewed Etugen as the second highest deity, after Kök-Tengri (Gök Tanrı). The dominant role in determining the fate of people and nations belonged to Tengri, but natural forces yielded to Etugen. Sometimes on Tengri's command, Etugen punished people for their sins. But she was generally considered a benevolent Goddess. To appease the goddess Etugen, sacrifices were made every spring in preparation for the cattle-breeding season and before planting crops. Sacrifices were also conducted in the autumn, after the completion of the harvest. During the times of the Khaganates, sacrifices to Etugen had a nationwide character. They were conducted near rivers and on the banks of lakes. A reddish horse was sacrificed with appeals for the fertility of cattle and crops, and for general well being.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816242", "title": "Tung-ak", "text": "Tung-ak\n\nTung-ak was the Mongol patron god of tribal chiefs. Tung-ak was the ruler of the lesser spirits of Mongolian mythology.\n"}
{"id": "1816244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816244", "title": "Special Service Squadron", "text": "Special Service Squadron\n\nThe Special Service Squadron was a component of the United States Navy during the earlier part of the 20th century. The squadron patrolled the Caribbean Sea as an instrument of gunboat diplomacy. It was headquartered in Balboa, Panama Canal Zone.\n\nRecords of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet have correspondence from the Special Service Squadron in 1907. The Special Service Squadron was stood up as a separate command from the fleet in 1920. Its purpose was to protect the Canal and American interests both in the Caribbean and on the Pacific coast of Central America (and it remained a separate command when the Atlantic and Pacific fleets were combined as the United States Fleet in 1922). The squadron consisted mostly of small, older ships and was abolished in 1940 as part of the consolidation of U.S. naval commands in the early 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816248", "title": "Lincoln High School (Portland, Oregon)", "text": "Lincoln High School (Portland, Oregon)\n\nLincoln High School is a public high school located in the Goose Hollow neighborhood of Portland, Oregon, United States. It was established in 1869 as Portland High School, making it one of the oldest public high schools west of the Mississippi River.\n\nIn the 2017–2018 school year, Lincoln's student population was 71.1% white, 10.4% Asian, 8.3% Hispanic, 1.3% African American, 0.2% Native American, 0.1% Pacific Islander, and 8.4% mixed race. About 91% of its students live within the school's neighborhood.\n\nIn 2008, 89% of the school's seniors received a high school diploma. Of 372 students, 330 graduated, 34 dropped out, four received a modified diploma, and four were still enrolled in high school the following year. For the 2010–11 school year, Lincoln had the highest overall graduation rate among Portland Public high schools, at 84 percent. About 90% of its Asian-American students graduated on time, as did 88% of Latino students. However, only 38% of its African-American students graduated on time, which was the worst rate in the district.\n\nLincoln's constitution team has won 23 state championships and six national titles.\n\nWith an initial enrollment of 45 students, the school was established in 1869 as the Portland High School in the North Central School sited on Block 80 of Couch's Addition (bounded by NW 11th & 12th and Couch & Davis Streets). The principal was J.W. Johnson. The high school moved from the top floors of the North Central School to the Central School in 1873 (located where Pioneer Courthouse Square is today) and moved again to the Park School (block bounded by Park, 10th, Madison, and Jefferson (now the Portland Art Museum)) in 1878. The first building to be known as Lincoln High School was built at SW 14th and Morrison in 1885, but was still named West Side High School at the time. The land for the 14th and Morrison School was given to the school district by Mrs. Simeon G. Reed (wife of the founder of Reed College) in 1869 and the building was designed by William Stokes, an architect who had recently moved to Portland from Oakland, California. The building was situated in the block bounded by 14th, Morrison, Lownsdale (now 15th) and Alder Streets.\n\nIn 1889, a \"very successful\" night school program was started at the first purpose-built building at SW 14th and Morrison.\n\nThe school was renamed Lincoln High School in 1909, and moved to the 45-room South Park Blocks location (now known as Lincoln Hall) when construction was completed in 1912. The building occupies the block bounded by Market & Mill Streets and Park & Broadway. (After the 1912 move, the old building of 1885 was used by the Girls' Polytechnic School. In fall 1928, that school moved to a new building on the east side, leaving the 1885 building vacant, and it was demolished by 1930.)\n\nIn 1937, the school had grown to 1,580 students and 53 teachers. In 1972, it had 1,253 students, 7% of whom were black (a contemporary report noted they were mostly \"voluntary transfers\"); 4.3% of the students were on welfare.\n\nDue to the baby boom and passing of a $25 million building levy by the school district in 1947, a new high school was slated. The existing building was sold to the Vanport Extension Center (now Portland State University) in April 1949 for $875,000, with the intention that the high school would not leave for \"at least two years.\" Land was cleared for the school by June 1950 on the former Jacob Kamm House property.\n\nLincoln is slated to be completely rebuilt as part of a $790 million bond measure passed in 2017. Construction is set to begin in the summer of 2020, with students returning at the beginning of the 2023 school year.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816249", "title": "Limerick East (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Limerick East (Dáil constituency)\n\nLimerick East was a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas from 1948 to 2011. The method of election was the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nThe constituency was created under the Electoral (Amendment) Act 1947 for the 1948 general election. It succeeded the constituency of Limerick, which was divided between Limerick East and Limerick West.\n\nIt encompassed the whole of Limerick City Council, together with the Castleconnell electoral area and part of the Bruff electoral area of Limerick County Council and the Ballyglass electoral area of Clare County Council. It was primarily an urban constituency but had a large rural hinterland, and contained small parts of County Clare.\n\nThe constituency elected 4 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs) from 1948 to 1981, and 5 deputies from 1981 to 2011.\n\nWhile support for left-wing parties has usually been strong in the city of Limerick, the constituency as a whole was long considered a stronghold of the Progressive Democrats (PD), supplying at least one PD TD in all general elections from 1987 until 2007.\n\nThe Constituency Commission published its final recommendations on 23 October 2007. As a result of population decline, Limerick East was replaced by a 4-seat constituency called Limerick City. Most of the rural parts of Limerick East were transferred to the new Limerick constituency.\n\nFollowing the death of Labour Party TD Jim Kemmy, a by-election was held on 11 March 1998. The seat was won by the Labour Party candidate Jan O'Sullivan.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD Donogh O'Malley, a by-election was held on 22 May 1968. The seat was won by the Fianna Fáil candidate Desmond O'Malley, nephew of the deceased TD.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD Daniel Bourke, a by-election was held on 26 June 1952. The seat was won by the Fine Gael candidate John Carew.\n"}
{"id": "1816253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816253", "title": "Altan Telgey", "text": "Altan Telgey\n\nAltan Telgey is a Mongol earth goddess. Her relationship to Etugen is unclear. In Mongolian, Delkhey (Delkhi) literally means earth. In modern Mongolian songs, the term Altan Delkhi is commonly mentioned.\n"}
{"id": "1816256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816256", "title": "Von Trapp", "text": "Von Trapp\n\nVon Trapp may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816259", "title": "Marlies Göhr", "text": "Marlies Göhr\n\nMarlies Göhr (née Oelsner, born 21 March 1958 in Gera, Bezirk Gera) is a former East German track and field athlete, the winner of the 100 metres at the inaugural World Championships in 1983. She ranked in the top 10 of the 100 m world rankings for twelve straight years, ranking first in six of those years. During this time she won many medals as a sprinter at major international championships and set several world records.\n\nCompeting under her maiden name of Oelsner, Marlies finished second in the 100 m in her first major international at the 1975 European Athletics Junior Championships in Athens.\nThe following year, at the 1976 Olympic Games in Montreal, she qualified for the 100 m final, finishing eighth, but went on to win her first Olympic gold medal on East Germany's victorious 4 x 100 m relay team.\n\nHer breakthrough year was in 1977, winning the 100 m title at the East German championships at Dresden in a world record time of 10.88 s. This landmark performance was the first time a woman had run under 11 seconds with electronic timing. Later that year, she won the 100 m title at the inaugural World Cup in Düsseldorf, where she also won a silver medal in the relay.\n\nShe had a unique style of running, dubbed 'sewing machine' (or 'staccato') for the high frequency of relatively short-paced strides (this is very easy to see in the 1977 World Cup ).\n\nMarlies continued to dominate in 1978, competing under her married name of Göhr. She won the gold medal in the 100 m in that year's European Championships in Prague and was just beaten by one hundredth of a second in the 200 m by Lyudmila Kondratyeva (Soviet Union).\n\nIn 1979, at the World Cup in Montreal, she was beaten into second place in the 100 m by Evelyn Ashford (U.S.), thus starting a competitive rivalry.\n\nIn early 1980 Göhr confirmed herself as the firm favourite for the Olympic 100 m title. During a two-week span in May she ran 10.98 s at Potsdam, followed by an 11.00 s at Jena and at Dresden she ran a fast 10.93 sec, second only to her own world record time of 10.88 s. At the Moscow Olympic Games Göhr's main opposition was Lyudmila Kondratyeva (Soviet Union) who had beaten Göhr in the 200 m at the 1978 European Championships. Göhr got a bad start in the final and was edged out by Kondratyeva, who made a final lunge near the finish to win the gold medal, again by one hundredth of a second. Six days later, Göhr lined up for the 4 x 100 m relay final and anchored the team home to win the gold medal in a world record of 41.60 s.\nGöhr made a good start to the 1981 season winning her third consecutive European Cup 100 m title at Zagreb in 11.17 s. Yet, on the world stage at the World Cup in Rome, Göhr had to settle for less than gold, again beaten by Evelyn Ashford, as well as by Kathy Smallwood (Great Britain). The following year at the 1982 European Championships in Athens, Göhr won in 11.01 s, becoming the first woman to defend the title.\n\nThe Göhr/Ashford rivalry blossomed in 1983, when both broke the world record. Firstly, Göhr broke her own world record at the Olympic Day meet in East Berlin winning in a time of 10.81 s. This record lasted less than a month, however, since Ashford broke it with a 10.79 s. Both athletes were in top form leading up to the inaugural World Championships, held in Helsinki. Both Göhr and Ashford won their respective semi-finals. Unfortunately, the final was anticlimactic since Ashford tore her hamstring during the race. Göhr won the gold medal from compatriot Marita Koch in 10.97 s, and she won a second gold medal in the 4 x 100 m relay.\n\nMarlies Göhr and Evelyn Ashford continued their dominance of the 100 m in 1984, recording the season's fastest 10 times between them. Unfortunately, Göhr was unable to compete at that year's Olympic Games in Los Angeles, because of the boycott by the Eastern Bloc countries. Ashford, unchallenged, went on to win the gold medal. Ashford's time of 10.97 secs was the first time a woman had run a legal sub-11 second clocking in the Olympic Games. They had a showdown in Zurich, in which Ashford won setting a new world record of 10.76 to Gohr's 10.84.\n\nIn 1986, Göhr was focused on retaining her 100 m title at the European Championships in Stuttgart. She defended her title with a season's best time of 10.91 s and became the first woman to win three European 100 m titles. She then won a second gold medal in the 4 x 100 m relay. In October 1986, she was awarded a Star of People's Friendship in gold (second class) for her sporting success.\n\nGöhr's last two appearances in major international championships were at the 1987 World Championships in Athletics in Rome and at the 1988 Olympic Games in Seoul. She was eliminated in the semi-finals of the 100 m in Rome but won a silver medal in the 4 x 100 m relay. At the Olympics, she was again eliminated in the 100 m semi-finals, but she won another silver in the relay. Ashford, anchoring the USA team, made up a three-metre deficit and won by a clear metre over Göhr.\n\nWith the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Stasi (secret police) files suggested widespread official doping under the East German regime. However, Göhr only tested positive for androgenic steroids in 1975 as a 17-year-old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816263", "title": "Beef on weck", "text": "Beef on weck\n\nA beef on weck is a sandwich found primarily in Western New York State, particularly in the city of Buffalo. It is made with roast beef on a kummelweck roll, a roll that is topped with kosher salt and caraway seeds. The meat on the sandwich is traditionally served rare, thin cut, with the top bun getting a dip in au jus and spread with horseradish.\n\nThe origin and history of the beef on weck sandwich is not well established. It is believed that a German baker named William Wahr, who is thought to have immigrated from the Black Forest region of Germany, created the kummelweck roll while living in Buffalo, New York. Wahr may have based the kummelweck roll on a special loaf left as a ceremonial offering for the dead known in Swabia as \"Schwäbische Seele\", which is a thin roll resembling a baguette that is topped with salt and caraway seeds. The sandwich's creation is estimated to have taken place some time in the mid-19th century, according to a butcher in Western New York.\n\nA local pub owner is said to have used the roll to create the beef on weck, with the thought that the salty top of the roll would encourage his patrons to purchase more drinks.\n\nThe kummelweck roll (sometimes spelled \"kümmelweck\"), topped with kosher salt and caraway seeds, gives the sandwich its name and a distinctive taste. \"Kümmel\" is the German word for caraway, and \"Weck\" means \"roll\" in the south-western German dialects of Palatinate, the Saarland, Baden and Swabia areas (northern Germans generally say \"Brötchen\"). However, the roll used for this American sandwich tends to be softer and fluffier than a standard German Kümmelbrötchen or Kümmelweck. In Austria, a similar type of small white-bread is known as \"Kümmelweckerl\" (diminutive from \"Wecken\", which refers to a whole big bread, i.e. \"Brotwecken\").\n\nA typical beef on weck is made from slow-roasted rare roast beef that is hand-carved in thin slices, served on a kummelweck roll. The cut face of the top half of the roll may be dipped in the jus from the roast. Prepared horseradish is usually provided for the diner to spread to taste on the top half of the roll.\n\nThe beef on weck has long been popular regionally, and has gained a following in other areas of the United States where it has been introduced. Expatriates from Western New York have taken the dish and brought it to other areas after relocating. For example, PJ's BAR-B-QSA in Saratoga Springs in Eastern New York is noted for its beef on weck. It has also been featured by chefs on cooking shows including the PBS special \"Sandwiches That You Will Like\". Bobby Flay, Anthony Bourdain and other chefs have featured the beef on weck, or a variant, on their television programs.\n\nThe American restaurant chain Buffalo Wild Wings was started by former residents of the Western New York area and the original name of the restaurant was \"Buffalo Wild Wings and Weck\", abbreviated as \"BW3\", the third W referring to weck. Some still refer to the company with the extra \"W\" in its abbreviation, despite the fact it was removed in 1998. The chain used to serve an updated version of the beef on weck called the Thirty-Fifth Weck Sandwich.\n\n\"The Daily Meal\" reviewed the beef on weck as a \"roast beef sandwich that dreams are made of\" in their article \"12 Life-Changing Sandwiches You've Never Heard Of\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816277", "title": "Hereford College of Arts", "text": "Hereford College of Arts\n\nHereford College of Arts is an art school based in the West Midlands, UK, and is the only specialist college in the region dedicated to the Arts.\n\nIt offers courses in both further and higher education fields, in Art & Design, Music and Performing Arts, to local, national and international students. The College has two campuses; Folly Lane is home to College-level courses and the former Royal National College for the Blind building on College Road is home to University-level courses. The BA (Hons) Artist Blacksmithing Course is the only one of its kind in the UK, and is taught at the largest teaching forge in Europe. Students at HCA exhibit their work regularly, and the College welcomes thousands of visitors every year to its annual Summer Show. Many students are selling their work before they graduate, via commissions, live briefs and their own practises. Music and Performing Arts students stage regular productions based at the College and at external venues. Students attend regular specialist shows and conferences and have good links with external companies to further activities.\n\nCollege Level Courses \nDiploma in Art & Design,\nExtended Diploma in Art & Design,\nExtended Diploma in Music,\nExtended Diploma in Performing Arts, and the post-18 Foundation Diploma in Art & Design\n\nThe College offers a variety of University Level Courses, which are validated by The University of Wales Trinity Saint David\n\nBA (Hons) Artist Blacksmithing,\nBA (Hons) Contemporary Design Crafts,\nBA (Hons) Fine Art, \nBA (Hons) Graphic & Media Design,\nBA (Hons) Illustration,\nBA (Hons) Illustration & Animation\nBA (Hons) Jewellery Design,\nBA (Hons) Music,\nBA (Hons) Photography,\nBA (Hons) Textile Design,\nFdA Commercial Photography,\nFdA Film & Photography\n\nThe College also offers Postgraduate courses in Fine Art and Contemporary Crafts and Short Courses for evening study and businesses, and Saturday Clubs for schoolchildren.\n\nThe college was founded in 1851 and was known as Herefordshire College of Art & Design. The name changed to incorporate the inclusion of Music and Performing Arts. In 2012, a new Arts Space and main entrance for Folly Lane was unveiled, providing much needed social, café and exhibition space. Designed by Hewitt Studios and constructed by Keir Moss, the contemporary and innovative space was funded entirely from college reserves. Landscaped gardens and outdoor areas are integrated into the design. This highly functional space has already hosted a number of exhibitions and events as well as being enjoyed on a day-to-day basis by students and staff. It's kitted out with striking café furniture, soft seating and tables, flexible exhibition panels, wi-fi access and touch-screen computers.\n\nThe design and architecture has generated great interest from national and regional bodies, and has been shortlisted and awarded for:\nIt has also been profiled by MADE to showcase how design is improving the quality of the built environment in the West Midlands and also featured in a cross-section of architectural journals and magazines from the UK and abroad.\n\nIn June 2013 HCA acquired the former Royal National College building on College Road. This outstanding building provides much needed teaching, social, studio and workshop spaces for the growing University-Level community, and places degree students closer to the main campus on Folly Lane, with plenty of affordable student housing close-by, including halls of residence.\n\nDuring summer 2013 HCA refurbished and adapted the spaces into studios, workshops, on-site library, photographic studios and stores, dark rooms and IT facilities including a large digital Mac and printing suite.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816284", "title": "Loughborough Gap", "text": "Loughborough Gap\n\nThe Loughborough Gap is a missing section of the Great Central Railway to the north-east of Loughborough, England. The gap was created by the removal of embankments and bridges during the 1980s and the restoration project has been branded Bridge to the Future and Bridging the Gap. From south-to-north the route crosses the Grand Union Canal, Railway Terrace road, four-track Midland Main Line at Loughborough railway station and the A60 road. The Hermitage Brook watercourse runs parallel.\n\nDuring the 2010s work began to restore the link in order to join the northern and southern sections of two heritage railways back together giving a total Great Central Railway (heritage railway) line length of . , planning permission was granted for the first major component: a replacement 30-metre single-span bridge over the Midland Main Line. An additional station called Loughborough High Level will be built to connect with Loughborough (Midland) station on the Midland Main Line. , the bridge was intended to be owned by Charnwood Borough Council and then leased back to the Great Central Railway for one hundred years in exchange for maintenance costs. Work commenced in April 2017, with the main bridge beams being installed in September of that year. The bridge is expected to be completed in 2019.\n\nAs a relatively late-developed railway in the United Kingdom, the GCR was forced to make some expensive civil engineering choices in order to complete their route. Just north of , the railway had to cross the existing Leicester section of the Grand Union Canal, before then crossing the existing Midland Main Line formation as well as avoiding the Hermitage Brook, before moving northwards to Nottingham.\n\nChoosing to approach the location on a raised embankment, the railway engineers used a steel-decked span bridge to cross the canal and a double-deck, double-width steel-decked span bridge to cross the Midland Railway.\n\nAfter the decision was made to close the GCR as part of the Beeching Axe, in the late 1960s contractors were appointed to remove the railway tracks and major parts of the civil engineering infrastructure. This included the section north of to north of the Midland Main Line. Contractors initially removed the railway tracks, before also removing the bridges and supporting buttresses over the Midland Main Line, and then the embankment to its south. Unfortunately, the following year the Hermitage Brook flooded, resulting in additional contractors being engaged to reimplement part of the railway's former embankment.\n\nAfter the formation of the Great Central as a heritage railway, bridging the resultant \"gap\" always became a significant challenge to realise the full operational vision. Since the closure of the line, Morley Street industrial estate had been developed on part of the site formerly occupied by the embankment, whilst Loughborough Borough Council had developed, filled with household waste and then covered a landfill to the south. The GCR itself, having started re-instatement of the GCR line from to the south, had developed its locomotive shed on the old alignment to the north of the station.\n\nThe Gap is long, and approximately wide for most of its length, running due north–south approximately north from . It is bounded: to the west by the northeasternmost part of Loughborough, including the Loughborough Midland station and Morley Street industrial estate; to the east by the covered former household refuse site; and to the north and south by GCR's northern and southern sections respectively.\n\nCurrent plans for bridging the gap, using a single-track line, include:\n\nOnce complete, the project will create a combined heritage railway.\n\nAfter the UK Government's announcement in 2012 that the Midland Main Line would be electrified by 2018, the project timescales to be completed or not were implemented. In 2013, the GCR engaged Network Rail to act as project engineers, project manager and main contractor to complete the project. In June 2013, the GCR and Network Rail signed an agreement to allow bridging of the Midland Main Line, including the underlying operations, maintenance and legal liability agreements for such.\n\nPreliminary works began January 2014 with boreholes being drilled in preparation for the bridge over the Midland Main Line at Loughborough.\n\nIn July 2014, the GCR received a one million pound grant from the UK Government’s \"Local Growth Deal\", via an allocation to the Leicester and Leicestershire Local Enterprise Partnership; the grant will support the GCR’s \"Bridging the Gap\" project.\n\nOn 15 April 2014 a planning application was submitted by Great Central Railway PLC with Network Rail acting as agents for \"Installation of rail bridge over midland mainline\"; which was granted on 27 June 2014. The bridge was envisioned as being single-track and made of two spans and a central supporting pillar in the middle. On 10 February 2015 a non-material minor amendment was applied for in order to allow construction using a single-span bridge design \"to remove [the] central pillar\"; which was granted by Charnwood Borough Council on 26 March 2015. A two-span design had originally been proposed in order to enable reuse of bridge components removed during the rebuilding of Reading station.\n\nAlthough the GCR owns the track from Loughborough to Leicester North, the underlying land is owned by Charnwood Borough Council, on a 99-year lease signed in 1976. Bridges over or under Network Rail infrastructure must be owned by organisations which can provide suitable legal liability to any incidents which may occur as a result of operations, which means to meet this requirement the owning organisation needs to have a minimum Net present value of over £250M. As the GCR can not clearly meet this criteria, after contract negotiations, it was agreed that Charnwood Borough Council will retain ownership of the land up to the southern abutment of the new bridge, whilst Network Rail will become the owner of the new bridge. The GCR will resultantly negotiate an operational lease agreement with Network Rail, which will define operational requirements which the GCR must comply with over the bridge.\n\nPreparatory work on the bridge over the Midland Main Line began on 12 February 2016 while the main construction work commenced in April 2017, with the main bridge beams being installed in September 2017. In the early hours of 3 September 2017 a 1000-tonne crane was used to lift the two steel beams forming the basis of the bridge into place.\n\nThe bridge was expected to be completed in 2019. As of late 2017, £2.5m had been spent installing the bridge over the Midland Main Line.\n\nIn 2014 a detailed assessment of work on the double track bridge over the Grand Union canal had been undertaken. The bridge had last carried trains in 1969. three separate quotes for renovating the bridge had been obtained, refurbishment is expected to cost about £400,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816287", "title": "Statue of Liberty in popular culture", "text": "Statue of Liberty in popular culture\n\nAfter its unveiling in 1886, the Statue of Liberty (\"Liberty Enlightening the World\"), by Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi, quickly became iconic, and began to be featured on posters, postcards, pictures and books. The statue's likeness has also appeared in films, television programs, music videos, and video games, and has been used in logos, on postage stamps and coins, and in theatrical productions. \"Liberty Enlightening the World\" remains a popular local, national, and international political symbol of freedom.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs a famous landmark, damage and destruction of the statue has been used to symbolize the end of mankind or the destruction of New York City. The table below lists some examples of movies which feature the statue damaged or destroyed.\n\nThere have been questions raised about how the statue would hold up for thousands of years, based on her current corrosion patterns. Studies done during various repairs in the past hundred years show that the copper \"skin\" of the statue herself will hold up, but her insides may not. The copper has aged and chemically changed to create a patina, which on metal is a coating of various chemical compounds such as oxides, carbonates, sulfides, or sulfates formed on the surface during exposure to atmospheric elements. It is this patina that gives the statue her sea-green coloring, due to the oxidation of the copper. It also means that the statue's deterioration by seawater and winds is greatly slowed. The only thing that still poses a threat to the patina is acid rain, which has the power to corrode the surface.\n\nThe joints holding the statue together have withstood some damage by seawater, and have been periodically replaced or repaired. The greatest damage comes in the form of a weakening to the arm holding up the torch, one of the areas of the statue that supports the most weight over a relatively small area. This arm weakness was most recently repaired in the mid-1980s. The torch that the statue holds was also replaced then, because the original torch had been irrevocably damaged by water and snow seeping in through the stained glass windows cut into the flame by Gutzon Borglum in 1916. The old torch now sits in the Statue of Liberty Museum in Fort Wood. The stone at Liberty's feet has also needed repair in the past. Fifty years after the statue was first erected, in 1937, it was discovered that water was leaking in to the pedestal that the statue stands upon. A giant copper apron (250 ft. tall) was placed over the pedestal to prevent future damage. Overall, the majority of the statue would likely survive the test of time if an apocalyptic event happened on Earth, as it does in many of the following movies.\n"}
{"id": "1816290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816290", "title": "Korean jade carving", "text": "Korean jade carving\n\nThe tradition of Korean jade carving dates back to neolithic finds along the Namgang river basin in Gyeongju. Jade rings and accessories were worn by the higher classes of society, especially women, from the three kingdoms period and reached their peak in the Joseon dynasty, the golden age of jadework. Korean jadework often includes buddhist motifs, cicadas, and peanut-shaped good luck talismans on the small scale, as well as larger-scale architectural pieces.\n\nAmongst the most famous is Jang Ju-won who has been designated Important Intangible cultural heritage No. 100. Jang is known for his refinement, and largely self-taught has recovered jadework for future generations.\n\nIn the local markets there now exists a wide variety of jade carvings and jewelry available for purchase. These items are much less costly than their Chinese counterparts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816295", "title": "Order of the Black Eagle", "text": "Order of the Black Eagle\n\nThe Order of the Black Eagle () was the highest order of chivalry in the Kingdom of Prussia. The order was founded on 17 January 1701 by Elector Friedrich III of Brandenburg (who became Friedrich I, King in Prussia, the following day). In his Dutch exile after World War I, deposed Emperor Wilhelm II continued to award the order to his family. He made his second wife, Princess Hermine Reuss of Greiz, a Lady in the Order of the Black Eagle.\n\nThe statutes of the order were published on 18 January 1701, and revised in 1847. Membership in the Order of the Black Eagle was limited to a small number of knights, and was divided into two classes: members of reigning houses (further divided into members of the House of Hohenzollern and members of other houses, both German and foreign) and capitular knights. Before 1847, membership was limited to nobles, but after that date, capitular knights who were not nobles were raised to the nobility (\"Adelsstand\"). Capitular knights were generally high-ranking government officials or military officers.\n\nThe Order of the Black Eagle had only one class, but could also be awarded at the king's prerogative \"with the Chain\" (\"\"mit der Kette\"\") or without (\"\"ohne Kette\"\"). By statute, members of the order also held the Grand Cross of the Order of the Red Eagle, and wore the badge of that order from a ribbon around the neck. From 1862, members of the Prussian royal house, upon award of the Order of the Black Eagle, also received the Prussian Crown Order 1st Class.\n\nThe badge of the Order was a gold Maltese cross, enameled in blue, with gold-crowned black eagles between the arms of the cross. The gold center medallion bore the royal monogram of Friedrich I (\"FR\", for \"Fredericus Rex\").\n\nThis badge was worn from either a broad ribbon (or sash) or a collar (or \"chain\"). The ribbon of the Order was an orange moiré sash worn from the left shoulder to the right hip, with the badge resting on the hip. The sash color was chosen in honor of Louise Henriette of Nassau, daughter of the prince of Orange and first wife of the great elector. The collar or chain (\"Kette\") was worn around the neck and resting upon the shoulders, with the badge suspended from the front center; the collar had 24 elaborate interlocking links: alternately a black eagle and a device featuring a center medallion with the motto of the Order (\"Suum Cuique\"—literally \"To each his own,\" but idiomatically \"To each according to his merits\"), a series of FRs forming a cross pattern, a blue enameled ring around this, and crowns at each cross point.\n\nThe star of the Order was a silver eight-pointed star, with straight or faceted rays depending on the jeweler's design. The center medallion displayed a black eagle (which gripped a wreath of laurels in its left claws and a scepter in its right) on a golden background, surrounded by a white enamelled ring bearing a wreath of laurels and the motto of the Order.\n\nAt meetings of the chapter of the Order of the Black Eagle and at certain ceremonies, the knights wore red velvet capes with blue linings. Embroidered on the left shoulder of each cape was a large star of the Order.\n\nFrom its founding in 1701 to 1918, the Order of the Black Eagle was awarded 407 times, with 57 of these installations occurring during the reign of Friedrich I (1701–1713). In 1918, the knights of the order totalled 118 — 14 were members of the Prussian royal house, one was a member of the Princely House of Hohenzollern, 49 (of whom nine were from states then at war with Germany) were members of other reigning houses, and 54 (including 17 who had not yet been fully installed) were nonroyal Germans. Subjects of the Prussian King receiving the order which was only given in one class were promoted to the peerage and received hereditary title.\n\nFrom the Prussian State Handbooks, it is clear that the Order of the Black Eagle (as well as, by statute, the other Prussian orders, as mentioned above) was conferred upon all male members of the royal family on their 10th birthdays; these men received the collar of the Order on their 18th birthdays. The Order was also conferred upon Prussian queens (and, later, German empresses), though other female members of the royal family usually received the Order of Louise instead.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Order of the Black Eagle is currently used as the emblem of the German Military Police (\"Feldjäger\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1816299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816299", "title": "Freddy's Frozen Custard &amp; Steakburgers", "text": "Freddy's Frozen Custard &amp; Steakburgers\n\nFreddy's Frozen Custard & Steakburgers is an American fast-casual restaurant chain based in Wichita, Kansas. Its menu includes steakburgers, Vienna Beef hot dogs, and chicken sandwiches, and the company provides frozen custard with a variety of specialty sundaes and concretes (blended sundaes).\n\nFreddy's was founded by restaurateur Scott Redler and two brothers, Bill (1955–2016) and Randy Simon, whose father, Freddy Simon, was the inspiration for the restaurant, and its namesake. Redler and the Simons created a brand reminiscent of simpler times.\n\nThe company, founded in Wichita, Kansas, in 2002, opened its first franchise in Hutchinson, Kansas, in December 2004. In April 2011, the company opened its 50th store in Victorville, California, and in October 2013 its 100th store in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Its 150th location opened in April 2015 in Loveland, Colorado. Freddy's opened its 300th location in Indianapolis, Indiana, in March 2018.\n\nIn 2018, Freddy's signed a development and master franchise agreement with Tastebuds Group to bring the concept to the Middle East, with plans to develop in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman and Qatar. The franchisee group brings more than 25 years of regional business experience within the Gulf Cooperation Council to the American brand and will be opening Freddy's first international location in Dubai later in the year.\n\nCo-founder Bill Simon died at age 61 on December 17, 2016, after a battle with cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816301", "title": "Tewodros I", "text": "Tewodros I\n\nTewodros I ( \"Theodore,\" throne name \"Son of the Lion\", ) was Emperor of Ethiopia () (1413–1414) and a member of the House of Solomon. He was the son of Dawit I by Queen Seyon Mangasha.\n\nDespite the fact it only lasted nine months (from 12 October 1413 to 23 June 1414), Tewodros's period of rule acquired a connotation of being a golden age for Ethiopia. The explorer James Bruce later commented,\n\nE. A. Wallis Budge repeats the account of the \"Synaxarium\" that Emperor Tewodros was \"a very religious man, and a great lover of religious literature\". Budge adds that Tewodros wished to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, but was convinced not to make the journey by the Abuna Mark, \"who feared for his safety.\" Despite this, Budge notes that he annulled the agreement of his ancestor Yekuno Amlak that granted a third of the country to the Ethiopian Church.\n\nTewodros was killed beyond the Awash River fighting Muslims, although this is not explicitly stated by the Ethiopian chroniclers. Taddesse Tamrat notes that \"in the royal chronicles and other traditions for the period, one can detect a deliberate attempt to suppress the violent ends of Ethiopian kings at the hands of their enemies.\" He was first buried at the church of Tadbaba Maryam, but his descendant Emperor Baeda Maryam I had his body re-interred at Atronsa Maryam.\n"}
{"id": "1816311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816311", "title": "Miss International", "text": "Miss International\n\nMiss International (\"Miss International Beauty\" or \"The International Beauty Pageant\") is a Japanese-based international beauty pageant organized by The International Culture Association. The pageant was first held in 1960. Miss International is the fourth largest pageant in the world in terms of having crowned national winners to participate in the international contest.\n\nAlong with Miss World, Miss Universe, and Miss Earth, this pageant is one of the Big Four international beauty pageants. The Miss International Organization and the brand are currently owned, along with Miss International Japan, by ICA (International Cultural Association) and Miss Paris Group. The pageant crown used by the organization is supplied and patented by the Mikimoto pearl company. \n\nThe current Miss International is Sireethorn Leearamwat of Thailand who was crowned on 12 November 2019 in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nThe pageant was created in Long Beach, California, United States in 1960 after the departure of the Miss Universe pageant to Miami Beach. Hosted in Long Beach until 1967, the pageant moved to Japan from 1968–1970, being hosted each year in the same city as the Expo '70. For 1971, it was held in Long Beach again, but since that time it has been held annually in Japan until 2003. Since 2004, it is held in China or Japan. The first winner of the pageant in 1960 was Stella Araneta of Colombia.\n\nSince then, Japan became the host country and the pageant has mostly been held in Japan, around autumn season either in October or November.\n\nThe pageant is also called \"Miss International Beauty\". The pageant advocacy is to achieve a world where women can live with positivity, inner strength and individuality. The slogan of Miss International is to \"correct understanding of Japan in the international community\" and \"the realization of world peace through mutual understanding\".\n\nThe winner of Miss International 2012, Ikumi Yoshimatsu of Japan was stripped of her crown and was not able to crown her successor due to conflict with a talent agency that threatened her safety and the pageant night itself; instead Miss International 2008 Alejandra Andreu took over in passing on the crown to Bea Santiago of the Philippines. She was the first titleholder of the pageant from Japan to be dethroned shortly before the end of her reign. The organization has been criticized for not standing up for allegedly asking Ikumi Yoshimatsu, Miss International 2012, to skip the succession ceremony and \"play sick and shut up\" in order to avoid a scandal with a Japanese production company whose president allegedly was harassing Yoshimatsu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816312", "title": "Duchy of Carniola", "text": "Duchy of Carniola\n\nThe Duchy of Carniola (, , ) was a State of the Holy Roman Empire, established under Habsburg rule on the territory of the former East Frankish March of Carniola in 1364. A hereditary land of the Habsburg Monarchy, it became a constituent land of the Austrian Empire in 1804 and part of the Kingdom of Illyria until 1849. A separate crown land from 1849, it was incorporated into the Cisleithanian territories of Austria-Hungary from 1867 until the state's dissolution in 1918. Its capital was Ljubljana ().\n\nThe borders of the historic Carniola region had varied over the centuries. From the time of the duchy's establishment, it was located in the southeastern periphery of the Holy Roman Empire, where the Gorjanci Mountains and the Kolpa River formed the border with Kingdom of Croatia.\n\nIn the north, it bordered the Imperial Duchy of Carinthia, from the Predil Pass and Fusine (\"Fužine\") along the main ridge of the Karawanks range up to Jezersko. In the northeast and east, it bordered on the Duchy of Styria, i.e., the present-day \"Štajerska\" or Lower Styrian lands beyond the Sava River, which until 1456 were held by the Counts of Celje. In the west, the peaks of the Julian Alps high above Lake Bohinj marked the border with the historic Friulian region, initially held by the Patriarchs of Aquileia, but gradually conquered by the Republic of Venice and incorporated into the \"Domini di Terraferma\" by 1433. In the southwest, beyond the Dinaric Alps, the Counts of Görz held the remaining Friulian territory, which in 1754 became the Austrian crown land of Gorizia and Gradisca (part of the present-day Slovenian Littoral). The remains of the Margraviate of Istria south of the Karst Plateau and the Brkini Hills were also administered from Carniola.\n\nIn its final extent, re-established in 1815, the duchy had an area of . In 1914, before the beginning of World War I, it had a population of a little under 530,000 inhabitants.\nAccording to the topography \"The Glory of the Duchy of Carniola\" written by the scholar Johann Weikhard von Valvasor (1641–1693), the territory was traditionally divided into three sub-regions: \n\nUntil 1860, these sub-regions coincided with the districts (\"Kreise\") of Ljubljana, Novo Mesto and Postojna. They were later divided into smaller units, called political (or administrative) districts (, ). Between 1861 and 1918, Carniola was divided into eleven districts consisting of 359 municipalities (, ), with the provincial capital serving as the residence of the imperial governor (\"Landeshauptmann\"). The districts were: Kamnik, Kranj, Radovljica, the neighbourhood of Ljubljana, Logatec, Postojna, Litija, Krško, Novo Mesto, Črnomelj, and Kočevje. The political districts were in turn divided into 31 judicial circuits (, ).\n\nThe former March of Carniola, i.e., Upper Carniola and the Windic March, had been separated from the Duchy of Carinthia in 1040 by King Henry III of Germany. It was nevertheless temporarily still held by the Carinthian rulers in personal union, like the \"Meinhardiner\" duke Henry VI, who died in 1335 without a male heir. His daughter Margaret only was able to keep the County of Tyrol, while the Wittelsbach emperor Louis IV the Bavarian passed Carinthia together with the Carniolan march to the Habsburg duke Albert II of Austria. \n\nAlbert's son Rudolf IV of Austria, \"the Founder\", in the course of his \"Privilegium Maius\", awarded himself the title of a \"Duke of Carniola\" in 1364—though without consent by the Holy Roman Emperor. Rudolph also founded the town of Novo Mesto in Lower Carniola, then named \"Rudolphswerth\". After his death, as a result of the quarrels between his younger brothers Albert III and Leopold, Carniola by the 1379 Treaty of Neuberg became part of Inner Austria ruled from Graz by Leopold, ancestor of the Habsburg Leopoldian line. In 1457, the Inner Austrian territories were re-united with the Archduchy of Austria under the rule of the Habsburg emperor Frederick III. When Frederick's descendant, Emperor Ferdinand I, died in 1564, Carniola was separated again as part of Inner Austria under the rule of Ferdinand's son Archduke Charles II. Charles' son, Emperor Ferdinand II, inherited all the dynasty's lands in 1619 and the duchy formed a constituent part of the Habsburg Monarchy ever since.\n\nIn the late 15th century, as part of the Habsburg westward expansion, the Duchy of Carniola acquired many new territories: Idrija (previously part of Friuli), Duino and the surrounding parts of the Karst Plateau, Kastav, Opatija, and the interior areas of Istria, centered around Pazin. It also had nominal control over the port of Rijeka, which however de facto remained an autonomous city; in 1717 it was officially placed under direct imperial rule and in 1776 it was transferred to Hungary. In the 19th century, these areas (with the exception of Idrija) were incorporated in the Austrian Littoral, and Carniola thus became a landlocked region once again.\n\nWith the Treaty of Schönbrunn in 1809, Napoleon formed the short-lived Illyrian Provinces from the annexed territories in Carniola, Carinthia, Croatia, Gorizia and Gradisca, and Trieste. The Final Act of the 1815 Congress of Vienna restored the Illyrian Provinces to the Austrian Empire. Carniola then formed the central part of the territory of the Austrian Kingdom of Illyria, whose capital was also Ljubljana, including the Carniolan and Carinthian duchies as well as the Austrian Littoral with Gorizia and Gradisca, the Margraviate of Istria and the Imperial Free City of Trieste.\n\nAfter the disestablishment of the Illyrian Kingdom in 1849, the Duchy of Carniola was constituted by rescript of 20 December 1860, and by imperial patent of 26 February 1861 (February Patent), modified by legislation of 21 December 1867, granting power to the Carniolan \"Landtag\" (or Carniolan Diet - estates' assembly) to enact all laws not reserved to the Imperial Council in Vienna, at which it was represented by eleven delegates, of whom two elected by the landowners, three by the cities, towns, commercial and industrial boards, five by the village communes, and one by a fifth curia by secret ballot, every duly registered male twenty-four years of age had the right to vote. The home legislature consisted of a single chamber of thirty-seven members, among whom the prince-bishop sat ex-officio. The emperor convened the legislature, and it was presided over by the \"k. k. Landeshauptmann\" (president of the Carniolan Diet – \"Landtag\" and its executive board – \"Landesausschuss\"). The landed interests elected ten members, the cities and towns eight, the commercial and industrial boards two, the village communes sixteen. The business of the chamber was restricted to legislating on agriculture, public and charitable institutions, administration of communes, church and school affairs, the transportation and housing of soldiers in war and during manoeuvres, and other local matters. The land budget of 1901 amounted to 3,573,280 crowns ($714,656).\n\nThe Austrian Imperial-Royal government was represented by the Imperial-Royal president (\"k. k. Landespräsident\" or governor), appointed by the emperor, and the Imperial-Royal Government (\"k. k. Landesregierung\") in Ljubljana. In the majority of other Austrian crown lands these were known as Imperial-Royal Lieutenant (\"k. k. Statthalter\") and Imperial-Royal Lieutenancy (\"k. k. Statthalterei\").\n\nIn 1918, the duchy ceased to exist and its territory became part of the newly formed State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and subsequently part of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (from 1929 called Kingdom of Yugoslavia). The western part of the duchy, with the towns of Postojna, Ilirska Bistrica, Idrija, Vipava and Šturje was annexed to Italy in 1920, but was subsequently also included into Yugoslavia in 1945 except for the town of Fusine in Valromana (Weissenfels, before 1919), which remained in Italy.\n\nThe vast majority of the population were Slovene-speaking. A German-speaking minority existed among the local nobles and those craftsmen, who had settled here as citizens of the major towns. German language islands were found in Lower Carniolan Gottschee County, where the rural population spoke Gottscheerish (Granish), a Southern Bavarian dialect, as well as around the Upper Carniolan villages of Zgornja Sorica (\"Oberzarz\"), Spodnja Sorica (\"Unterzarz\") and Nemški Rovt (\"Deutschgereuth\") in the Bohinj Basin.\n\nIn 1846, the population of Carniola included:\n\nIn 1910, the population of Carniola included:\n\nThe coat of arms of Carniola dates back to the 13th century, when it most probably evolved as a combination of the coats of arms of the Bavarian Counts of Andechs in the Duchy of Merania (eagle) and the Rhenish House of Sponheim in Carinthia (red-white checkerboard). The eagle is also featured in the seal of King Ottokar II of Bohemia in his capacity as ruler of the Carniolan march in 1269. In 1463 Emperor Frederick III, having prevailed against the claims raised by his brother Albert VI of Austria, added the Imperial crown to the eagle and replaced the white in the shield and the checkered crescent with gold. In 1836 Emperor Ferdinand I of Austria restored the original white color to the shield and recognized the white-blue-red combination as the official Carniolan color scheme.\n\nUnder the Habsburg rule the white, blue and red from the Carniolan coat of arms (the shield, the eagle and the crescent) were confirmed as the official flag colors of the crownland in 1848. Since the Duchy of Carniola was the main Slovene-populated region of the Austrian Empire, the color scheme was subsequently accepted as the generic Slovene national tricolor by the inhabitants of other Slovene Lands.\n\nAs for the coat of arms, it was abandoned after 1918 with the passing of the Duchy of Carniola. The blue eagle of Carniola was, however, briefly resurrected from 1943 to 1945 as the symbol of the Slovenian auxiliary Axis forces, the Slovene Home Guard. It was also used in the Yugoslav Karađorđević dynasty coat-of-arms in the interwar period (and was replaced in the state coat-of-arms of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia by the three stars of the medieval Counts of Celje).\n\nThe insignia of the Duchy of Carniola have had an important and lasting impact on Slovene national symbols. Thus, the white-blue-red combination of the flag of the Duchy of Carniola is in use today as the official color scheme of the flag of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian coat of arms is also a heraldic composite, incorporating the stars of the Counts of Celje, the Carniolan colors and the image of the Slovene holy mountain Triglav.\nHeir of all Habsburg lines in 1619. See List of rulers of Austria for details.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816317", "title": "Falls Road Railroad", "text": "Falls Road Railroad\n\nThe Falls Road Railroad is a Class III short line railroad owned by Genesee Valley Transportation. The railroad operates in Niagara, Orleans, and Monroe counties in New York. The railroad's right-of-way consists of of track, known as the \"Falls Road Branch\", that were acquired from Conrail on October 15, 1996. A yard and engine house are maintained in Lockport, NY, where the railroad interchanges with CSX. The railroad is known for its use of Alco locomotives.\n\nThe name \"Falls Road\" originates from the Lockport and Niagara Falls Railroad. The term \"Falls Road Branch\" was adopted by New York Central, and later Conrail, to refer to the section of railroad track between Lockport and Rochester, New York. In 1994, Conrail abandoned twelve miles (19 km) of track between Rochester and Brockport, New York; the \"Falls Road Branch\" now terminates in Brockport, east of Owens Rd at Mile Post 16.60. The Falls Road provides rail service to the Western New York Energy, LLC, ethanol plant near Medina, New York. This is the first such plant in the state.\n\nThe Falls Road Railroad, like all other GVT properties, is Alco-powered. The railroad uses one New York Central vintage RS32 (2035) as well as one Nickel Plate vintage RS-11 (1802). The 2035 is the primary engine; however, 1802 will be used on days when an extra train, such as a passenger excursion or snowplow, is needed.\n\nIn 2000 the Falls Road was operating locomotives #1802 (RS-11) and #1804 (RS-11).\nBy 2006 #1802 still remained, but #1804 was long gone and on another Genesee Valley Transportation shortline. #334 (C420) came to take #1804's spot.\nBy the year 2008 #1802 continues to serve the FRR; however, #334 was shipped out and sold to another company who repainted her on another shortline that's not GVT owned. #2035 (RS-32) came to take #334's place.\nEver since #334 was replaced by #2035, the power has remained the same. #1802 is still on the FRR, and since the words FALLS ROAD RAILROAD are painted on her side, there is no sign of her leaving anytime soon. #2035 is also still on the FRR; however, with #2035 having GENESEE VALLEY painted on the side, it is only a matter of time until #2035 ends up leaving the FRR once more. Nothing can predict the future of the FRR power.\nExact years not listed. Just time frames.\n\nThe current two locomotives, RS-32 #2035 and RS-11 #1802, are the only two locomotives currently operating on the Falls Road Railroad. #2035 is the primary locomotive, because it is a Low Hood. It has more visibility. #1802 is used on extra trains when 2035 is busy. This can include an excursion, corn train, ethanol train, or snow plow. 1802 is a High Hood, so the visibility is a bit less than 2035. The FRR regularly runs excursions for the Medina Railroad Museum, and if the freight local is busy being worked by 2035, 1802 is put in for the excursion. Also, sometimes corn trains are needed to go to Medina for the ethanol plant, or an ethanol train needs to go from Medina to Lockport for CSX to pick up. If the train is long enough, 1802 will help 2035 running double teamed. If 2035 is on the local, 1802 will step in to take the corn or ethanol train where it needs to go. Even though snowfall heavy enough to make the FRR break out their big plow is rare, sometimes it has to be done. In that case, if 2035 is going to be busy, 1802 will do the plowing. If the snow happens to be too dense, 1802 will team with 2035 to do the plowing together.\n"}
{"id": "1816324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816324", "title": "Cumbria Institute of the Arts", "text": "Cumbria Institute of the Arts\n\nThe Cumbria Institute of the Arts was a further and higher education institution in Carlisle, Cumbria, England.\n\nFounded as the \"Society for the Encouragement of Fine Arts\" in 1822, it proceeded as the \"Carlisle College of Art\", from 1950, and switched to \"Cumbria Institute of the Arts\" from \"Cumbria College of Art and Design\" in 2001.\n\nThe Institute merged with St Martin's College (founded in Lancaster) to form the University of Cumbria on 1 August 2007. Cumbria Institute became the University's Faculty of Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816329", "title": "Mormonism in the 20th century", "text": "Mormonism in the 20th century\n\nThis is a timeline of major events in Mormonism in the 20th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816334", "title": "The Keeper of Traken", "text": "The Keeper of Traken\n\nThe Keeper of Traken is the sixth serial of the 18th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 31 January to 21 February 1981.\n\nIn the serial, the alien time traveller the Master (Geoffrey Beevers) seeks a power on the planet Traken known as the Source which he wishes to use to restore his life.\n\nThe end of the serial introduces Anthony Ainley in the role as the Master. The serial is also the debut of Sarah Sutton as companion Nyssa.\n\nIn the TARDIS, the Fourth Doctor and Adric arrive back in N-Space following the events of \"Warriors' Gate\" in an area known as the Traken Union, an empire of peace and harmony. They are surprised to find a holographic image of the elderly Keeper of Traken appear in the TARDIS, calling on the Doctor's help. The Keeper explains that his title is about to pass on soon to Consul Tremas, giving him access to the powerful Source that is the centre of Traken's technological advancement, but senses evil within him, his wife Kassia, and his daughter Nyssa. The Keeper suspects a connection to Melkur, an evil creature that arrived years ago on Traken but became calcified in a grove in the capital. Melkur has since become something of a holy symbol, and Kassia has been tasked with talking to it and keeping it clean; that task is soon to be passed on to Nyssa.\n\nWhen the Doctor and Adric land at Traken's capital and visit the Keeper, their presence appears to cause the Keeper to warn the assembled group of a great evil, and though Tremas vouches for them, others, including the Fosters, guardians of the spiritual welfare of the capital, remain cautious about their presence. Soon, bodies in the grove are found, the Doctor and Adric determining they have been killed by some type of plasma weapon. Adric works with Nyssa to identify the energy signature of the plasma as being from a TARDIS, while the Doctor assists Tremas in defusing the conflict over their presence. Unbeknownst to either group, Kassia secretly visits Melkur, who gives her a collar to wear, providing the creature with mind-control over her while promising to keep her husband safe. Kassia is able to convince the Fosters to arrest Tremas, the Doctor, Adric and Nyssa, and uses the situation to convince the other Consul to install her as the next Keeper. When the Keeper dies, Kassia takes the throne, but as the pivotal moment of the ceremony is completed, she disappears, leaving the statue of Melkur in her place, now connected to the Source.\n\nHaving escaped their confinement, the Doctor and his allies seek to cause a servo-shutdown of the Source to destabilise it and disconnect Melkur from using it. As Adric and Nyssa prepare to activate it, the Doctor is drawn into the statue of Melkur, finding it to be a TARDIS. Inside, he meets his old enemy, a horribly disfigured Master. The Master reveals he is on his last regeneration, and seeks to use the Source to give him a new set of regenerations, and then attempts to subdue the Doctor. However, at the same time, Adric and Nyssa initiate the servo-shutdown, disconnecting the Source from the Master and causing his TARDIS to malfunction. The Doctor escapes the Master's TARDIS, and when Melkur disappears, another Consul, Luvic, takes the throne to restabilise the Source before it completely dies.\n\nAfter assuring all is well, the Doctor and Adric depart in his TARDIS. Later, Tremas discovers an alien longcase clock, and is transfixed to it when the Master emerges from it and merges his body with that of Tremas. The newly reformed Master laughs as he re-enters the clock—his TARDIS—and dematerialises, leaving Nyssa wondering where her father has gone off to.\n\nThis story came about when the script editor suggested to Johnny Byrne that he use the subjects of millennialism and the effects of a long-serving head of state dying. The producer wanted to include a character that would give a sense of familiarity when Tom Baker, who had been the Doctor for several years, left and the new lead actor took over. To this end the Master replaced the villain in Byrne's draft.\n\nThe Melkur statue's design was based on a 1913 statue by Umberto Boccioni. The decaying master's robe was the same costume that had been used in The Deadly Assassin.\n\nThe story was repeated on BBC1 (except BBC1 Wales) across four consecutive evenings from Monday to Thursday, 10–13 August 1981, achieving viewing figures of 5.2, 4.4, 5.2 and 5.0 million viewers respectively.\n\nGeoffrey Beevers is credited as the Melkur to conceal the plot twist of the Master's return. The Melkur statue was played by Graham Cole. Denis Carey, who plays the Keeper, also played Professor Chronotis in the uncompleted Fourth Doctor serial \"Shada\", and the Old Man in the Sixth Doctor story \"Timelash\" (1985). Margot Van der Burgh had previously appeared as Cameca in the First Doctor serial \"The Aztecs\" (1964). John Woodnutt also appeared in \"Spearhead from Space\" (1970), \"Frontier in Space\" (1973) and as Commander Broton in \"Terror of the Zygons\" (1975). Robin Soans subsequently appeared in the Twelfth Doctor episode \"Face the Raven\" (2015).\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in May 1982.\n\n\"The Keeper of Traken\" was released on VHS in September 1993. In January 2007, it was released on DVD alongside \"Logopolis\" and \"Castrovalva\", as part of the \"New Beginnings\" box set.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816335", "title": "Prende", "text": "Prende\n\nPrende (also \"Prenne\", \"Premte\" or \"Petka\") is the goddess of love, beauty and fertility in the Albanian pagan mythology, who is thought to have been worshiped by the Illyrians in antiquity. In Albanian folklore she is the wife of the thunder and sky god Perëndi, and referred to as \"Lady Prenne\" or \"Lady of Beauty\" (Albanian: \"Zonja Prende\" or \"Zonja e Bukurisë\", in Gheg Albanian: \"Zoja Prenne\" or \"Zoja e Bukuris\"), while her sacred day was Friday, named in Albanian after her: \"e premte\". Prende is identified with the cult of Venus and she was worshipped in northern Albania, especially by the Albanian women, until recent times. Originally a pre-Christian deity, she was called \"Saint Veneranda\" (\"Shënepremte\"), identified by the Catholic Church as Saint Anne, mother of Virgin Mary. She was so popular in Albania that over one in eight of the Catholic churches existing in the late 16th and the early 17th centuries were named after her. Many other historical Catholic and Orthodox churches were dedicated to her in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nPrende is the goddess of love, beauty and fertility, the Albanian equivalent of the Roman Venus, Norse Freyja and Greek Aphrodite. In Albanian mythology she is the wife of the thunder and sky god Perëndi.\n\nPrende was worshipped in northern Albania, especially by the Albanian women until recent times. Prende's festival was celebrated on July 26 every year, and her devotees would don beautiful clothing and would set out a mortar and pestle as a representation of sexual union. In Albanian folk beliefs the Rainbow is regarded as \"Lady Prende's Belt\".\n\nWhen Albania became Christianized in antiquity, Prende was identified by the Catholic Church as Saint Anne, mother of Virgin Mary, and was called \"Saint Veneranda\" (, known in Gheg dialect as \"Prenne\", \"Perende\" or \"Petka\"). Another Albanian Christian saint thought by some to have a non-Christian origin is Gjin.\n\nPrende was so popular in Albania that of the some 275 Catholic churches recorded to have existed in Albania in the late 16th and the early 17th centuries, 33 were named after her, more than to any other saint except Virgin Mary and Saint Nicholas. Many other historical Catholic and Orthodox churches were dedicated to her in the 18th and 19th centuries. In the Kurbin valley pilgrimages to the church of Saint Veneranda were common among both Christians and Muslims. There people went also in the hope of a cure for mental illness.\n\nAs is usual in many cultures, in Albania the day sacred to the goddess of love is Friday, named in the Albanian language after her: \"dita e premte\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816339", "title": "Yeshaq I", "text": "Yeshaq I\n\nYeshaq I or Isaac (, ; throne name: Gabra Masqal II , ) was Emperor of Ethiopia (\"nəguśa nagaśt\") (1414–29). A member of the House of Solomon, he was the second son of Emperor Dawit I.\n\nYeshaq's reign was marked by a revolt of the Beta Israel. In response, the Emperor marched into Wegera, where he defeated the rebels at Kossoge some north of Gondar, thereby ending the revolt. He also had the church Debre Yeshaq built there to commemorate his victory. Yeshaq also invaded the Shanqella region beyond Agawmeder, and to the southeast he fought against the sons of Sa'ad ad-Din II who returned from exile in the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nYeshaq, according to the Islamic historian al-Maqrizi, hired a group of Mamluks led by al-Tabingha to train his army in gunnery and swordfighting. This is the earliest reference to firearms (Arabic \"naft\") in Ethiopia. About the same time another Egyptian visitor, a Copt, \"reorganized the kingdom,\" according to al-Maqrizi, \"and collected so much wealth for the Hati [the Emperor] that he enjoyed the king's authority.\" This unnamed Copt also introduced the practice of the Emperor dressing in \"splendid\" clothes and carrying a cross, which made him stand out from his subjects.\n\nFurther, George Wynn Brereton Huntingford suggests that it was during Yeshaq's reign that the rulers of Ethiopia ceased having permanent capitals; instead, their courts were held in their encampments as they progressed around their realm.\n\nYeshaq made the earliest known contact from post-Axumite Ethiopia to a European ruler. He sent a letter by two dignitaries to Alfonso V of Aragon, which reached the king in 1428, proposing an alliance against the Muslims and would be sealed by a dual marriage, that would require Infante Peter to bring a group of artisans to Ethiopia, where he would marry Yeshaq's daughter. It is not clear how or if Alfonso responded to this letter, although in a letter that reached Yeshaq's successor Zara Yaqob in 1450, Alfonso wrote that he would be happy to send artisans to Ethiopia if their safe arrival could be guaranteed, for on a previous occasion a party of thirteen of his subjects traveling to Ethiopia had all perished.\n\nA notable example of Ethiopian literature that has survived from this period is a panegyric addressed to Yeshaq, which Enrico Cerulli singled out as a gem of Ethiopian poetry.\n\nTadesse Tamrat believes that the primary sources mask Yeshaq's death in battle against the Muslims. E. A. Wallis Budge states that he was assassinated, and \"buried in Tadbaba Maryam\", a convent in Sayint.\n"}
{"id": "1816345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816345", "title": "Equal-to-apostles", "text": "Equal-to-apostles\n\nAn equal-to-the-apostles (, \"isapóstolos\"; ; , \"muʿādil ar-rusul\"; , \"motsikultasts'ori\"; ; , \"ravnoapostol'nyj\"; Bulgarian and Serbian: , \"ravnoapostolni\"; ; Ukrainian: рівноапостольний) is a special title given to some saints in Eastern Orthodoxy and in Byzantine Catholicism. The title is bestowed as a recognition of these saints' outstanding service in the spreading and assertion of Christianity, comparable to that of the original apostles.\n\nBelow is a partial list of saints who are called \"equal-to-the-apostles\":\n\nAs George Ostrogorsky relates, the insistence of pre-Christian Roman emperors on being\nworshipped as gods had always been a fundamental stumbling block for early Christians (see Anti-Christian policies in the Roman Empire). Nevertheless, even with the advent of\nChristian emperors, of which Constantine the Great was the first, the sovereign's power maintained a distinctly divine flavour.\nIndeed, to use Ostrogorsky's more strongly worded phrasing, \"the Roman-Hellenistic cult of the sovereign lived on in the Christian Byzantine empire \nin all its ancient glory.\"\nThe Greek term for \"Equal-to-the-Apostles\", \"isapóstolos,\" was used in the late Roman/Byzantine empire to contribute to this divine imperial image.\nConstantine himself seems to have had this in mind when, according to Eusebius of Caesarea, he designed the Church of the Holy Apostles to be his tomb in Constantinople:\n\nSymbolism aside, modern scholars offer differing accounts as to whether Eusebius ever used the actual title of \"isapóstolos\" in reference to Constantine. John Julius Norwich maintains that \"for the last few years of his life, Constantine had regularly used the title \"isapóstolos\"\", though he does not cite a primary source. The New Catholic Encyclopedia (supplement 2010) states that Eusebius did refer to Constantine with this title, although it too does not cite a primary source. Aidan Nichols also shares this view, positing that Eusebius did indeed describe Constantine as \"isapóstolos\", but that a later editor, or \"interpolator,\" had reduced his status to \"isepiskopos\"—Equal-to-a-Bishop—so as to make Constantine seem more modest. In contrast to this, Jonathan Bardill states rather bluntly that our sources do not directly speak of Constantine as an equal of the apostles until the 5th century (that is, after Eusebius).\n\nThis characterization was not without its problems, however. As alluded to above, though Constantine himself may very much have intended to be recognized as \"isapóstolos\", many theologians and churchmen were made uneasy at this prospect. As Gilbert Dagron explains, the difficulty was not necessarily that Constantine was unworthy (merely immodest, more like), but rather that the title resulted in a very ambiguous mixing of church and state. Thus when Sozomen deals with Constantine's funeral in his ecclesiastical history, he makes a point of saying that bishops were afterwards interred in the same place, \"for the hierarchical dignity is not only equal in honor to imperial power, but, in sacred places, even takes the ascendancy.\"\n\nIn time, however, the soon to be sainted Constantine would nevertheless become firmly established as \"isapóstolos\", being enshrined as such in the Bibliotheca Hagiographica Graeca and other Byzantine literature (ex. Anna Komnene confidently calls him the 13th apostle in the Alexiad, to whom she likens her father Alexius). Indeed, in this capacity he proved to be an irresistible model for many later Byzantine rulers, who would regularly make use of the title \"isapóstolos\" themselves—for political—as well as religious reasons. \n"}
{"id": "1816348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816348", "title": "Duchy of Silesia", "text": "Duchy of Silesia\n\nThe Duchy of Silesia (, ) with its capital at Wrocław was a medieval duchy located in the historic Silesian region of Poland. Soon after it was formed under the Piast dynasty in 1138, it fragmented into various Duchies of Silesia. In 1327 the remaining Duchy of Wrocław as well as most other duchies ruled by the Silesian Piasts passed to the Kingdom of Bohemia as Duchies of Silesia. The acquisition was completed, when King Casimir III the Great of Poland renounced his rights to Silesia in the 1335 Treaty of Trentschin.\n\nDuring the time of its establishment, the Silesian lands covered the basin of the upper and middle Oder river. In the south the Sudetes mountain range up to the Moravian Gate formed the border with the lands of Bohemia - including Kłodzko Land - and Moravia. After a more than century-long struggle, the boundary had just been determined by an 1137 agreement with the Bohemian duke Soběslav I. In the west Lower Silesia bordered on the German March of Lusatia (later Lower Lusatia) and the former Milceni lands around Bautzen (later Upper Lusatia) with the boundary running along the Bóbr and Kwisa rivers. Silesia was limited by the Polish provinces of Greater Poland in the north and the Seniorate Province of Lesser Poland in the east, separated by the Przemsza and Biała rivers.\n\nThe boundaries varied slightly in the following decades: at least when the duchy was re-established for the sons of Władysław II the Exile in 1163 (see below), it also comprised Lubusz Land northwest of Krosno, which had been the western outpost of Greater Poland and passed to the margraves of Brandenburg in 1248. In 1177 the Polish High Duke Casimir II the Just attached the former Lesser Polish castellanies of Bytom, Oświęcim, Zator, Siewierz und Pszczyna to Upper Silesia in favour of Duke Mieszko IV Tanglefoot. After Silesia as a whole had become a Bohemian fief according to the 1335 Treaty of Trentschin, these lordships - except for the state countries of Bytom and Pszczyna - returned to the Polish Crown.\n\nAs the Silesian Province (), the duchy was one of five main provinces established in medieval Poland according to the Testament of Bolesław III Krzywousty. By the terms of the will from 1138-1146 it was controlled by the Senior Duke of Poland or High duke, Bolesław's first-born son Władysław II the Exile, who also held the Duchy of Kraków.\n\nThe testament however failed to prevent a violent inheritance conflict between Władysław and his younger half-brothers, who allied against him. After his failed bid to take control of the entire Kingdom in 1146, he lost his status as the senior duke, was excommunicated by Archbishop Jakub ze Żnina of Gniezno and fled to the Holy Roman Empire. The duchy was then under control of his half-brother High Duke Bolesław IV the Curly.\n\nWith support from Emperor Frederick I Barbarossa, who had campaigned in Greater Poland in 1157 and forced Bolesław IV to cede Silesia, Władysław's sons were able to return to the duchy in 1163. As long as they were under pressure by High Duke Bolesław IV, they ruled jointly at Wrocław, until tensions between them erupted into an open conflict in 1172. As a result, the brothers divided the duchy among themselves; the first partition of many which led to the creation of numerous Duchies of Silesia in the following centuries:\n\n\nAfter a revolt by Bolesław's eldest son, Jarosław, who feared for his heritage, his father ceded him a strip of land around Opole, for the first time creating the Duchy of Opole. In turn Jarosław had to prepare for an ecclesiastical career and remain celibate. Likewise Bolesław's and Mieszko's youngest brother, Konrad Spindleshanks, when he came of age claimed his rights and about 1177 received the Lower Silesian lands around Głogów; leading to the first creation of the Duchy of Głogów. However, Bolesław I outlived both his youngest brother and his son, and both territories fell back to him in 1190 and 1201 resp.\n\nBolesław I died in the same year and was succeeded by his only surviving son Henry I the Bearded, who soon entered into conflict with his Piast relatives as well as with his German neighbours. In 1202 he had to face the invasion of his uncle Mieszko I, who, still dissatisfied with the 1172 partition, annexed the Opole territory of late Jarosław. The Duchy of Opole remained with the estates of Mieszko's descendants, whereby the secession of Upper Silesia was conclusive. In 1206 Henry I came to an agreement with the Polish High Duke Władysław III Spindleshanks to swap Lubusz Land for the Greater Polish Kalisz region. The plan however was foiled, when Władysław III lost the seniorate and furthermore Lubusz was occupied by the troops of the Wettin margrave Conrad II of Lusatia. Duke Henry had to struggle for his northwestern outpost, which he regained upon the margrave's death in 1210. He had to defend Lubusz once more against the campaigns of Landgrave Louis IV of Thuringia from 1221. Upon the death of his cousin Duke Casimir I of Opole, son of Mieszko I Tanglefoot, in 1230, he acted as guardian of his minor nephews, thereby once again ruling over whole Silesia. In 1232 he became High Duke of Poland, and as he was able to secure the succession of his son Henry II the Pious upon his death in 1238, it seemed that the Polish fragmentation could be overcome and the will of Bolesław III Krzywousty would finally be fulfilled.\n\nHenry II in 1239 had to resign the regency of Upper Silesia in favour of his cousin Mieszko II the Fat. He anew defended Lubusz, this time against the forces of the Ascanian margraves of Brandenburg, and in 1241 granted it to his second son Mieszko. The hopes for a re-unification of the Polish lands under the Silesian Piasts ended with the Mongol invasion of Poland and Henry's death at the 1241 Battle of Legnica. His eldest son Bolesław II the Bald could not prevail as High Duke against Bolesław V the Chaste of Lesser Poland and, after he regained Lubusz upon the death of his brother Mieszko in 1242, finally had to divide his Silesian heritage with his younger brothers in 1248:\n\n\nThe subdivision of the Silesian duchies increased over the following generations and accompanied the fragmentation of Poland. Henry's III son Henry IV Probus upon the death of his uncle Władysław in 1270 ruled at Wrocław and in 1288 even became High Duke of Poland, until the male line became extinct with his death in 1290. He was succeeded by his cousin Duke Henry V the Fat, son of Henry's III brother Bolesław II, who once again re-united the duchies of Wrocław and Legnica under his personal rule. Nevertheless, upon his death in 1296, his heritage was again partitioned among his sons. The second, Duke Henry VI the Good, in order to ward off claims raised by his elder brother Duke Bolesław III the Generous of Legnica, in 1327 signed an inheritance treaty with King John of Bohemia, like most of the Silesian duchies had been vassalized by the Kingdom of Bohemia in the early 14th century. As the Polish king Casimir III in the 1335 Treaty of Trentschin had renounced Silesia, Henry's VI duchy passed without opposition to the Bohemian kingdom when he died without male heirs three months later.\n\nSilesia was incorporated into the Lands of the Bohemian Crown, after King Casimir III had acknowledged the acquisition by the 1348 Treaty of Namslau with King Charles IV — except for the Upper Silesian duchies of Oświęcim and Zator, which in the 16th century were integrated in the Polish Kraków Voivodeship, as well as the Duchy of Siewierz, that was purchased by the Archbishop of Kraków in 1443.\n\nAs Henry VI left no male heirs, his lands were inherited by King John of Bohemia.\n\nThe following maps illustrate continuing fragemtarization of the Duchy of Silesia, and shifting borders of the individual smaller Duchies.\n\nAfter the inheritance of Bohemia by the House of Habsburg in 1526, the Silesian duchies gradually passed under control of the Austrian Habsburg Monarchy until King Frederick II of Prussia invaded Silesia in 1740 and annexed most of it during the First Silesian War. The bulk of the duchy, enlarged by the County of Kladsko and Upper Lusatian territories annexed from Saxony, was subsequently reorganized as part of the Prussian Province of Silesia, while the duchies remaining under Austrian control were reconstituted as the Duchy of Upper and Lower Silesia in 1742. The duchies which had remained in Poland were subsequently annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia (New Silesia) and the Habsburg Monarchy (Galicia) during the 18th century Partitions of Poland. The Duchy of Upper and Lower Silesia lasted as a crown land of Cisleithanian Austria until 1918, whereupon it was divided between the Second Polish Republic (Autonomous Silesian Voivodeship) and Czechoslovakia (Czech Silesia) after the Polish–Czechoslovak War of 1919.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816350", "title": "Perëndi", "text": "Perëndi\n\nPerëndi () is the Albanian word for God, the sky and heaven. Perëndi is thought to have been a sky and thunder god in the Albanian pagan mythology, and to have been worshiped by the Illyrians in antiquity. His name has been retained in the Albanian language—along with the names Zot (Heavenly Father) and Hyj (Heavenly Glow)—to refer to the Supreme Being after the spread of Christianity. Another archaic Albanian divine name of the sky and thunder god is Zojz, from PIE Dyeus (Daylight-Sky-God). In some of his attributes, Perëndi could be related to the weather and storm gods Shurdh and Verbt, and to the mythological demigod drangue.\n\nIn Albanian, \"Perëndí\" (definite: \"Perëndía\") is the name of God, the sky and heaven, and is used capitalized to refer to the Supreme Being. The plural indefinite form is \"perëndí\" while the plural definite form is \"perëndítë\", used uncapitalized to refer to the deities. Some dialectal alternative forms include: \"Perendí\", \"Perenní\", \"Perundí\", \"Perudí\", \"Perndí\" and \"Parandí\". Although the Albanian root \"perëndoj\" (\"to set of the sun\"), ultimately derived from Latin \"parentari\", the passive correlate of \"parentare\" (\"a sacrifice to the dead, to satisfy\"), has also been proposed, the complex form \"Perëndí\" is generally considered a compound of the roots \"per-en-\" (\"to strike') and \"-dí\" (\"sky, god\"):\n\nThe first element belongs to the family of Proto-Indo-European mythological names endowed with regular reflexes of the same root \"*per-\", \"to strike\", and a suffix \"-en/n-\" which has reflexes also in other Indo-European divine names like \"*peruhₓnos\" \"the one with the thunder stone\", or \"Perun/Perunŭ\", the Slavic thunder god, cf. \"*\"Perkunos\"\", the Proto-Indo-European weather-god. The non-enlarged root \"*per-\" is found also in the Hittite \"Peruna-\" (\"deity\" and \"holy cliff\"), in the Pamir \"Perun\" (a war-god), cognate with Pashto \"Pērunē\" (the name for the Pleiades, cf. Avestan \"paoiriiaēinī-\"), and probably in Ancient Greek κεραυνός (\"thunderbolt\") an epithet of Zeus and the name of a separate deity, which might have been a synonymic substitution for the prohibited form *περαυνός. While velar enlargements are found in Lithuanian \"Perkūnas\" (which could be the prohibited form of \"Perūnas\"), in Old Norse \"Fjörgynn\", in Rigvedic \"Parjanya\" (god of storm and rain) and probably in Thracian \"Perkos/Perkon\" (Περκων/Περκος), a horseman hero. Terms from the root \"*pér-ur-\" and related to stone are also attested in Hitt. \"pēru\" (\"rock, cliff, boulder\"), Aves. \"pauruuatā\" (\"mountains\"), and Skt \"párvata\" (\"rocky, cliff, mountain\").\n\nIn the Albanian language, a word to refer to the lightning—considered in folk beliefs as the \"fire of the sky\"—is \"shkreptimë\", a formation of \"shkrep\" meaning \"to flash, tone, to strike (till sparks fly off)\". An association between strike, stones and fire, can be related to the observation that one can kindle fire by striking stones against each other. The act of producing fire through a strike—reflected also in the belief that fire is residual within the oak trees after the thunder-god strikes them—indicates the potential of lightning in the myth of creation.\n\nThe second element \"dí/día/dei\" (\"day, sky, deity\") derives from PIE \"*Dyēus\" (\"daylight-sky-god\"), which is found also in the archaic Albanian divine name of the sky and thunder god \"Zojz\", cognate with Messapian \"Zis\" and Greek \"Zeus\". This element is thought to be contained also in another Albanain term for the Supreme Being: \"Zot\", considered to be derived from Proto-Albanian \"*dźie̅u ̊ a(t)t-\", an old compound for \"heavenly father\", from PIE \"*dyew-\" (\"sky, heaven, bright\") + \"*átta\" (\"father\"), thus a cognate with PIE \"*Dyḗus ph₂tḗr\" and with its descendants: Illyrian \"Dei-pátrous\", Sanskrit द्यौष्पितृ (\"Dyáuṣ Pitṛ́\"), Proto-Italic \"*djous patēr\" (whence Latin \"Iuppiter\"), Ancient Greek Ζεῦ πάτερ (\"Zeû páter\").\n\nIn Albanian mythology, Perëndi is the consort of the love-goddess Prende, comparable to Frigg, Odin's wife in Norse mythology.\n\nIn Albanian folk beliefs the lightning was regarded as the \"fire of the sky\" (\"zjarri i qiellit\") and was considered the \"weapon of the deity\" (\"arma/pushka e perëndisë\"), indeed an Albanian word to refer to the lightning is \"rrufeja\", related to the Thracian \"rhomphaia\", an ancient pole weapon. Albanians believed in the supreme powers of thunder-stones (\"kokrra e rrufesë\" or \"guri i rejës\"), which were believed to be formed during lightning strikes and to be fallen from the sky. Thunder-stones were preserved in family life as important cult objects. It was believed that bringing them inside the house could bring good fortune, prosperity and progress in people, in livestock and in agriculture, or that rifle bullets would not hit the owners of the thunder-stones. A common practice was to hung a thunder-stone pendant on the body of the cattle or on the pregnant woman for good luck and to contrast the evil eye.\n\nIn Albanian culture, the heaviest type of oath swearing (Alb. \"beja më e rëndë\") is taken by a thunder-stone \"which comes from the sky\" (\"beja me gur/kokërr reje/rrufeje që vjen nga perëndia\"). It was a very serious oath and people were afraid of it even though they were telling the truth. The act of absolving himself of any allegation of theft was performed in the following way: the thunder-stone was taken in the left hand and was touched by the right hand saying:\nPerëndi is especially invoked by Albanians in incantations and songs praying for rain. Rituals were performed in times of summer drought to make it rain, usually in June and July, but sometimes also in the spring months when there was severe drought. In different Albanian regions, for rainmaking purpose, people threw water upwards to make it subsequently fall to the ground in the form of rain. This was an imitative type of magic practice with ritual songs.\n\nIn Nowruz or in the Albanian Spring Day (\"Dita e Verës\"), in particular, in some villages of the region of Kurvelesh in southern Albania people addressed the following prayer to the deity for plants and cattle:\nThe following is a hetero-homometric ritual song for rainmaking which includes also the figure of Peperona (or \"Rona\", in other cases also \"Perperuga\", \"Dudula\" or the masculine form \"Dordolec\" or \"Durdulec\"), a traditional mythical character of Balkan folklore:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816352", "title": "Shurdh", "text": "Shurdh\n\nShurdh () is a weather and storm god in Albanian mythology and folklore, who causes hailstorms and throws thunder and lightning. Worshiped in northern Albania until recent times, he is thought to have been an ancient Illyrian god. In Albanian mythology Shurdhi is the counterpart of another weather god, Verbti. They both could be related to Zojz and Perëndi, and some of their attributes are found in the mythological figure of drangue.\n\nThe name \"Shurdhi\" appears to be connected with the Albanian term \"i shurdhët\" meaning \"the deaf one\", however this link seems to be only a coincidence, since the name \"Shurdh\" must be a compound of \"*seuro\", \"water\" (cf. Albanian \"shurrë\"), and \"*dos\" \"giver/donor\" (cf. Albanian \"dhashë/dha\", \"I gave/he gave\"); his name thus means \"water donor\". \"Shurd\" seems to be related to the theonym Zibelsurdus found in ancient Thracian epigraphic monuments.\n\nAccording to folk beliefs, Shurdhi travels using storm clouds which announce hailstorms when he arrives. He can be greeted and turned away with noise and gunshots. The Albanologist Baron Nopcsa identified Shurdhi with the ancient Thracian thunder deity Zibelsurdus, who was also greeted with weapons. According to Karl Treimer, the basic form \"perejont-\", \"the striker\", of the Albanian divine name Perëndi may be an epithet of the thunderstorm god Shurdh, who may have been a favorite god since he refreshed pastures and fields and was probably also of a warlike nature after his epithet. The name 'Shurdhi' could be related to the name of the island of Shurdhah, near Shkodër.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816355", "title": "Jang Ju-won", "text": "Jang Ju-won\n\nJang Ju-won (born 1937) is a modern-day master of Korean jade carving or jadecraft, who has been designated Important Intangible cultural heritage No. 100. Jang is known for his refinement, and largely self-taught has recovered jadework for future generations.\n"}
{"id": "1816358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816358", "title": "Order of the Crown (Prussia)", "text": "Order of the Crown (Prussia)\n\nThe Royal Order of the Crown () was a Prussian order of chivalry. Instituted in 1861 as an honour equal in rank to the Order of the Red Eagle, membership could only be conferred upon commissioned officers (or civilians of approximately equivalent status), but there was a medal associated with the order which could be earned by non-commissioned officers and enlisted men.\n\nOfficially the Order of the Red Eagle and the Order of the Crown were equal. Most officials did however prefer to be appointed in the older Order of the Red Eagle. The Order of the Crown was often used as an award for someone who had to be rewarded while the Prussian government did not want to use the Order of the Red Eagle.\n\nThe Order had six classes:\n\nThe \"badge\" of the Order for the 1st to 4th classes was a gilt cross pattée, with white enamel (except for the 4th Class, which was plain). The obverse gilt central disc bore the crown of Prussia, surrounded by a blue enamel ring bearing the motto of the German Empire \"Gott Mit Uns\" (God With Us). The reverse gilt disc has the Prussian royal monogram, surrounded by a blue enamel ring with the date 18 October 1861. \n\nThe \"star\" of the Order was (for Grand Cross) a gilt eight-pointed star, (for 1st Class) a silver eight-pointed star, or (for 2nd Class) a silver four-pointed star, all with straight rays. The gilt central disc again bore the crown of Prussia, surrounded by a blue enamel ring bearing the motto \"Gott Mit Uns\".\n\nThe \"ribbon\" of the Order was blue.\n\nThe insignias of the order could be awarded in dozens of variations. For example with superimposed Cross of Geneva (Red Cross - normally given to doctors for meritorious service), with swords and with oak leaves.\n\nThe following lists show a fair cross section of individuals who were known to be conferred membership of the Order in its several classes, in order of precedence. (The following is only a partial list and may expand over time, with further research.)\n"}
{"id": "1816364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816364", "title": "No. 8 Hose Station", "text": "No. 8 Hose Station\n\nThe No. 8 Hose Station is a small fire hall that is a Toronto landmark. It is located on College Street at Bellevue and marks the northern end of Kensington Market and serves the Chinatown area at Spadina and Dundas.\n\nThe hall was built in 1878 as part of the transformation of the Toronto Fire Department that saw it move from a volunteer to a professional organization. The station was home to horse drawn hose car. The clock tower, that quickly became a symbol of the neighbourhood, was added in 1899. From the top of the tower a lookout would watch for fires. It was also useful for hanging hoses to dry. In 1911 it received the city's first motorized fire engine.\n\nIn the 1960s most of the old fire houses were demolished, but community pressure saved No. 8. However in 1972 the building was gutted by fire. Again the community assured its survival and the building was rebuilt almost exactly as it had been before. The addition that stored the aerial ladder was replaced with the modern 3 bay addition that now houses the station's trucks. The original fire hall building is now used as a gym for Toronto Fire station 315.\n\nThe fire that gutted the hall in 1972 started when the crew was out fighting another fire\n\n"}
{"id": "1816368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816368", "title": "Duchy of Bukovina", "text": "Duchy of Bukovina\n\nThe Duchy of Bukovina was a constituent land of the Austrian Empire from 1849 and a Cisleithanian crown land of Austria–Hungary from 1867 until 1918.\n\nThe name \"Bukovina\" came into official use in 1775 with the region's annexation from the Principality of Moldavia to the possessions of the Habsburg Monarchy (which became the Austrian Empire in 1804, and Austria-Hungary in 1867).\n\nThe official German name, \"die Bukowina\", of the province under Austrian rule (1775–1918), was derived from the Polish form \"Bukowina\", which in turn was derived from the Ukrainian word, Буковина (Bukovyna), and the common Slavic form of \"buk\", meaning beech tree (\"бук\" [buk] as, for example, in Ukrainian or, even, \"Buche\" in German). Another German name for the region, \"das Buchenland\", is mostly used in poetry, and means \"\"beech land\"\", or \"\"the land of beech trees\"\". In Romanian, in literary or poetic contexts, the name \"Țara Fagilor\" (\"the land of beech trees\") is sometimes used.\n\nIn English, an alternative form is \"The Bukovina\", increasingly an archaism, which, however, is found in older literature.\n\nAfter the Mongol invasion of Europe, the Bukovina lands since the 14th century had been part of the Principality of Moldavia, with Suceava being the princely capital from 1388 to 1565. In the 16th century, Moldavia came under Ottoman influence, but still retaining its autonomy. During the early 18th century, Moldavia became the target of the Russian Empire's southwards expansion, inaugurated by Tsar Peter the Great during the Pruth River Campaign of 1710-11. In 1769, during the Russo-Turkish War of 1768–74, Moldavia was occupied by Russian troops.\n\nFollowing the First Partition of Poland in 1772, the Habsburg Monarchy had aimed at a land connection from the Principality of Transylvania to the newly acquired Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. After the Russo-Turkish Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca was concluded in July 1774, the Austrians entered into negotiations with the Sublime Porte from October and could finally obtain a territory of Moldavia with an area of about 10,000 square kilometres (ca. 4,000 square miles) they called \"Bukowina\", which they formally annexed in January 1775. On 2 July 1776, at Palamutka, Austrians and Ottomans signed a border convention, the Habsburg Monarchy giving back 59 of the previously occupied villages, and remaining with 278 villages. For opposing and protesting the annexation of the northwestern part of Moldavia, the Moldavian ruler Prince Grigore III Ghica was assassinated by the Ottomans.\n\nBukovina at first was a closed military district from 1775 until 1786, and then was incorporated as the largest district, \"Kreis Czernowitz\" (later also \"Kreis Bukowina\") of the Austrian constituent Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria. So far, the Moldavian nobility had traditionally formed the ruling class in that territory. The Habsburg emperor Joseph II wished to affiliate the region with the provinces of the Austrian monarchy (though not with the Holy Roman Empire); he had the devastated lands colonised by Danube Swabians, later known as Bukovina Germans. In the mid 19th century the town of Sadhora became the centre of the Hasidic Sadigura dynasty. The immigration process promoted the further economic development of the multi-ethnic country, though it remained a remote eastern outpost of the Danube Monarchy.\n\nIn 1804, the region became part of the newly established Austrian Empire. After the political turmoil of the 1848 revolutions, the estates urged the Vienna government to elevate the Bukovina to a separate Austrian \"Kronland\" (crown land). With effect of 4 March 1849, the former \"Kreis\" was declared the \"Herzogtum Bukowina\", a nominal duchy as part of the official full style of the Austrian emperor. It was governed by a \"k.k. Statthalter\" (stadtholder) appointed by the emperor, with his official residence at Czernowitz from 1850.\n\nIn 1860 the Bukovina was again amalgamated with Galicia, but reinstated as a separate province once again according to the 1861 February Patent issued by Emperor Franz Joseph I. The reinstated crown land received its own \"Landtag\" diet including a \"Landesausschuss\" executive authority, a status that would last until 1918. In 1867, with the re-organisation of the Austrian Empire as the Austro-Hungarian Empire, it became part of the Cisleithanian (\"Austrian\") territories. Upon the promulgation of the December Constitution, the Imperial Council, on the initiative of the Cisleithanian Citizens' Ministry led by Karl von Auersperg, decided to confer the title \"Landespräsident\" on the former stadtholder, heading a \"Landesregierung\" (state government). Nine (from 1907 elections: 14) delegates represented the Bukovina in the Austrian House of Deputies.\n\nThe main military force in the region during peacetime was the 22nd Infantry Regiment at Czernowitz, at that time the only \"k.k. Landwehr\" regiment with a Romanian majority (54%). As soon as hostilities began, however, new units were formed from the locally recruited population. The 22nd, 23rd and 41st Landwehr Regiments, along with the 4th Dragoons regiment all had Romanian majority. To encourage recruitment, the Romanians were allowed to wear their national colors as well as receiving spiritual guidance by ethnic-Romanian military priests.\n\nIn 1914–15 large parts of the Bukovina were occupied by the Russian 8th Army under General Aleksei Brusilov after the Austro-Hungarian defeat in the Battle of Galicia and could only be regained by the united forces of the Central Powers after the German-led Gorlice–Tarnów Offensive and the Russian Great Retreat. The Romanian troops fought bravely, 62 being awarded the Medal for Bravery. In one instance, the 41st Regiment fought for 54 hours continuously. By 4 June 1916, The Bukovinian Romanian casualties were 184 killed, 1175 wounded and 82 captured.\n\nIn the autumn of 1918, the multi-ethnic state of Austria-Hungary collapsed and the Ministry of War officially ordered demobilization, though no central authority was able to ensure the decommissioning of arms. On 18 October 1918, the Ukrainian National Council established in Lemberg, Galicia, planned to declare a Ukrainian Republic that would also incorporate the Bukovina and Carpathian Ruthenia. On 25 October 1918, a Ukrainian regional committee, led by Emilian Popowicz, was established in Czernowitz to represent the Ukrainian National Council in Bukovina. On 14/27 October 1918, at the initiative of Sextil Pușcariu, Iancu Flondor, and Isidor Bodea, the Constituent Assembly of Bukovina established, in Czernowitz, the Romanian National Council (consisting of representatives from the Austrian parliament and from the Bukovina diet, and local political activists), which adopted a declaration to support the union of Bukovina with Romania, and demanded the last Austrian \"Landespräsident\" governor Josef Graf Etzdorf to cede his power.\n\nIn the meantime, the local paramilitary forces of the Ukrainian National Council took control over Czernowitz and other parts of Bukovina, effectively supplanting Austrian control by the 6th of November. Although local Ukrainians attempted to incorporate Bukovina into the so-called West Ukrainian People's Republic, they were not able to set up an administration. In the light of Ukrainians' actions, the Romanian National Council leader Iancu Flondor, request the Romanian government to intervene in Bukovina. Five days later, the Romanian 8th Division, led by General Iacob Zadik, entered Czernowitz, against Ukrainian protests, while the Ukrainian paramilitary forces withdrew without resistance to Galicia. Further attempts by local Ukrainians to incorporate parts of northern Bukovina into the West Ukrainian People's Republic were swiftly suppressed by the troops, with the leadership of the Ukrainian National Council fleeing across the Dniester River, to Galicia, which was partially under Ukrainian military control.\n\nAfter the Romanian troops secured the region, a General Congress of Bukovina was established on 15/28 November 1918, which counted among its members 74 Romanians, 13 Ruthenians, 7 Germans, and 6 Poles were elected (this is the linguistic composition, and Jews were not recorded as a separate group). A popular enthusiasm sprang throughout the region, and a large number of people gathered in the city to wait for the resolution of the Congress. The Congress elected the Romanian Bukovinian politician Iancu Flondor as chairman, and voted for the union with the Kingdom of Romania, with the support of the Romanian, German, Jewish, and Polish representatives, and in the absence of the Ukrainian ones. The reasons stated were that, until its takeover by the Habsburg in 1775, Bukovina was the heart of the Principality of Moldavia (where the voivods' burial sites are located), and right of self-determination.\n\nRomanian control of the province was recognized internationally in the Treaty of St. Germain, in 1919, and the Treaty of Trianon, in 1920, when both the Republic of German-Austria and the Kingdom of Hungary renounced all claims to the Bukovina.\n\nWhen \"Kreis Bukowina\" was elevated to a duchy in its own right in 1849, it was initially still administrated from the Galician capital Lemberg. By order of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, Czernowitz became the seat of an Imperial-Royal (\"k.k.\") stadtholder in 1850. By the 1861 February Patent the Duchy of Bukovina got a representative assembly, the \"Landtag\" diet with a \"Landesausschuss\" executive branch led by a \"Landeshauptmann\". Upon the 1907 Cisleithanian legislative election the duchy was represented by 14 delegates in the Austrian Imperial Council legislature.\n\nThe subdivision of the crown land was amended in 1868; by 1914 the Duchy of Bukovina consisted of eleven political districts (\"Bezirke\"): \nAccording to the 1775 Austrian census, the province had a total population of 86,000 (this included 56 villages which were later returned to Moldova). The census only recorded social status and some ethno-religious groups. In 1919, the historian Ion Nistor claimed that Romanians constituted an overwhelming majority in 1774, roughly 64,000 (85%) of the 75,000 total population. Meanwhile, about 8,000 (10%) were Ruthenians, and 3,000 (4%) other ethnic groups. On the other hand, just four years before the same Nistor claimed the 1774 population consisted of 52,750 Romanians (73%), 15.000 Ruthenians (21%) and 4,000 others \"using Romanian in conversation\" (6%). In 2011, an anthroponimical analysis of the Russian census of the population of Moldova in 1774 asserted a population of 68,700 people in 1774, out of which 40,920 (59.6%) Romanians, 22,810 Ruthenians and Hutsuls (33.2%), and 7.2% Jews, Roma, and Armenians. The Ruthenians lived more densely in the north-west of Bukovina, especially in the zone between Prut and Dniester and the Hutsuls were concentrated in the mountain zone in the west of the province, especially in the zone of the rivers Ceremuș and Putyla. In 1787, the imperial officials documented in Czernowitz 414 houses, of which 153 Moldavian (Romanian), 84 German, 76 Jewish, with the rest being Armenian, Arnaut (Albanian), Czech, Greek, Hungarian, Pole and Ruthene (Ukrainian).\n\nDuring the 19th century, the Austrian Empire policies encouraged the influx of many immigrants (Austrian authorities encouraged immigration in order to develop the economy), mainly Ukrainians (at that time referred to as Ruthenians from Galicia) and Romanians from Transylvania and Hungary, as well as smaller numbers of Germans, Poles, Jews, and Hungarians. Official censuses in the Austrian Empire (later Austria-Hungary) did not record ethno-linguistic data until 1850–1851. H.F. Müller gives the 1840 population used for purposes of military conscription as 339,669. According to Alecu Hurmuzaki, by 1848 55% of the population was Romanian. The Austrian census of 1850–1851 which for the first time recorded data regarding languages spoken, shows 48.50% Romanians and 38.07% Ruthenians \nIn 1843 the Ruthenian language was recognized, along with the Romanian language, as 'the language of the people and of the Church in Bukovina'.\n\nAccording to estimates and the census data of Austria-Hungary, the population of Bukovina was:\n"}
{"id": "1816373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816373", "title": "Chiastolite", "text": "Chiastolite\n\nChiastolite is a variety of the mineral andalusite with the chemical composition AlSiO. It is noted for distinctive cross-shaped black inclusions of graphite. The presence of the cross caused this mineral be used as a gem. Chiastolite specimens were distributed throughout Europe from the 16th century, as an amulet or souvenir provided by the pilgrims returning from Santiago de Compostela (Saint James of Compostella), in Spain. In the old books of mineralogy, chiastolite appears it is cited with the name of l\"apis crucifer\" or \"lapis cruciatur\", cross stone. The first figure of a chiastolite appears in Laet's book, De Gemmis et Lapidibus, published in 1648. The quiastolite specimens sold to the pilgrims came from Asturias, where it is very abundant, in large specimens, in the area of Boal.\n\nIn areas around Georgetown, California, metamorphosed sediments contained andalusite and chiastolite in a graphite rich metasediment. The chiastolite crystals have been pseudomorphically altered by a mixture of muscovite, paragonite and margarite. The calcium rich margarite tends to form along the graphite rich crosses or bands within the chiastolite. Mineralogically the occurrence is important because all three \"white mica\" phases are present in an equilibrium assemblage.\n\nThere are several theories regarding the formation of the chiastolite cross, however the most widely accepted theory, proposed by Frondel in 1934, suggests that there is a selective attachment of impurities at the rapidly growing corners of andalusite crystals. As the concentration of these impurities (which consist primarily of graphite) increases, the growth of the crystal is slowed. This concentrated impurity deposit forms a re-entrant as it is absorbed by the growth of the andalusite porphyroblast. The cycle of growth-retardation-growth then repeats itself, creating a featherlike pattern of graphite along four radiating 'arms'.\n"}
{"id": "1816379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816379", "title": "Order of the Red Eagle", "text": "Order of the Red Eagle\n\nThe Order of the Red Eagle () was an order of chivalry of the Kingdom of Prussia. It was awarded to both military personnel and civilians, to recognize valor in combat, excellence in military leadership, long and faithful service to the kingdom, or other achievements. As with most German (and most other European) orders, the Order of the Red Eagle could only be awarded to commissioned officers or civilians of approximately equivalent status. However, there was a medal of the order, which could be awarded to non-commissioned officers and enlisted men, lower ranking civil servants and other civilians.\n\nThe predecessor to the Order of the Red Eagle was founded on November 17, 1705, by the Margrave Georg Wilhelm of Brandenburg-Bayreuth as the \"Ordre de la Sincerité\". This soon fell into disuse but was revived in 1712 in Brandenburg-Bayreuth and again in 1734 in Brandenburg-Ansbach, where it first received the name of \"Order of the Brandenburg Red Eagle\". The statutes were changed in 1777 and the order named therein as the \"Order of the Red Eagle\". The order was conferred in one class, limited to fifty knights.\n\nThe Kingdom of Prussia absorbed both Brandenburg-Bayreuth and Brandenburg-Ansbach in January 1792, and on June 12, 1792, King Frederick William II again revived the order as a Prussian royal order. After the Order of the Black Eagle, the Order of the Red Eagle was the second highest order of the kingdom in order of precedence.\n\nIn 1810, King Frederick William III revised the statutes of the order, expanding it into three classes. In 1830, a breast star was authorized for the Second Class and the First Class General Honor Decoration became the Fourth Class of the order. The statutes were further revised in 1861, and a Grand Cross was established as the highest class of the order. By change to the statutes of the Order of the Black Eagle, every member of that order was automatically invested with the new Grand Cross of the Order of the Red Eagle, as well as with the Order of the Prussian Crown. By 1918, an affiliated soldier's medal had been made available to commoners and enlisted men.\n\nFollowing the Kaiser's abdication at the close of the First World War, a new German constitution was signed into law on August 11, 1919, effectively putting a legal end to the monarchy. All orders and decorations formally conferred by the monarchy ceased to exist, but recipients of the Order of the Red Eagle continued to wear it with their other decorations during the eras of the Weimar Republic, the Third Reich, and the restored republic.\n\nBy the time of World War I, the order had evolved into six classes:\n\nWithin these six classes, however, were a bewildering array of variations. Among these were:\n\nThere were also a set of special versions, the Stars 1st through 4th Class, for non-Christians.\n\nThe badge of the order for the Grand Cross was a gold (gilt after 1916) Maltese Cross enameled in white, with red enameled eagles between the arms of the cross; the gold central disc bore the Royal monogram, surrounded by a blue enameled ring bearing the motto of the Order, \"Sincere et Constanter\".\n\nThe badge for the 1st to 3rd classes was a gold (gilt after 1916) cross pattée, enameled in white; that for the 4th class was similar but with smooth, plain silver arms. After 1879 the silver arms of the 4th class cross were pebbled in texture and appearance. The central disc bore the red eagle on a white enamel background on the obverse, with the royal cipher of King Friedrich Wilhelm surmounted by the Prussian crown on the reverse. The enlisted man's medal was of a relatively simple, round design, topped with the Prussian crown, with a depiction of the regular badge in the center of the medal on the obverse, with the royal cipher of the reigning monarch on the reverse.\n\nThe breast star of the order was (for the Grand Cross) a golden eight-pointed star, (for 1st Class) a silver eight-pointed star, or (for 2nd Class) a silver four-pointed star with a white enameled cross pattée, all with straight rays. The central disc bore the red eagle on a white enamel background, surrounded by a ring (enameled blue for Grand Cross, white for the others) bearing the motto of the Order, \"Sincere et Constanter\".\n\nAfter September 16, 1848, awards of all classes (except the medal) bestowed for military merit had two golden swords crossed through the central medallion.\n\nThe traditional ribbon of the order was white with two orange stripes at the edges, but combat awards were frequently conferred with a black and white ribbon similar to that of the Iron Cross. Numerous variations of the ribbon existed, depending on the nature of the specific award.\n\n\nThe following lists show a fair cross section of individuals who were known to be conferred with the order in its several classes, in order of precedence. The Order of the Red Eagle was conferred frequently upon foreign nationals, both royal and non-royal, to honor their individual position or work and to further the diplomatic relations with their respective nations, in much the same way that the Order of the Bath is still conferred by the British monarchy. The following is only a partial list and may expand over time.\n\nGerman / Prussian\n\n\nForeign\n\n\nGerman\n\nForeign\n\n\nGerman\n\nForeign\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816384", "title": "Northampton South (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Northampton South (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorthampton South is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2017 by Andrew Lewer, a Conservative.\n\nThis constituency was created for the election of February 1974 when the old constituency of Northampton was split into Northampton South and Northampton North.\n\nSince creation it is generally a marginal and in elections since 1979 but one, in 2005, has been a bellwether, electing an MP from the winning (or largest governing) party.\n\nThe one-time Deputy Speaker of the House, Michael Morris, a Conservative, held this seat from its creation in 1974 until 1997, when Tony Clarke defeated Morris in a surprise result (one of many in the Labour landslide of that year) to gain the seat for Labour with a majority of just 744. Clarke only just increased his majority in 2001, but Brian Binley defeated Clarke to regain the seat for the Conservatives in 2005 with a comfortable majority, and held it until 2015 when he retired and fellow Conservative David Mackintosh held the seat. Mackintosh retired at the 2017 snap election after just one Parliament, after facing the prospect of being deselected by his local constituency party, and Andrew Lewer took over with a decreased majority from 2015 of over 1,000.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Northampton wards of Castle, Delapre, Duston, St Crispin, South, and Weston.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Northampton wards of Billing, Castle, Delapre, Nene Valley, New Duston, Old Duston, St Crispin, South, and Weston, and the District of South Northamptonshire wards of Blisworth, Brafield, Bugbrooke, Cogenhoe, Gayton, Hackleton, Harpole, Heyford, Kislingbury, Milton, Roade, Salcey, and Yardley.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Northampton wards of Billing, Castle, Delapre, Nene Valley, New Duston, Old Duston, St Crispin, South, and Weston, and the District of South Northamptonshire wards of Brafield, Cogenhoe, Hackleton, Harpole, Kislingbury, Milton, Roade, Salcey, and Yardley.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Northampton wards of Billing, Castle, Delapre, Ecton Brook, New Duston, Old Duston, St Crispin, St James, Spencer, and Weston.\n\nSouth Northamptonshire is the 2010-created constituency in the county which absorbed the southern part of the 1997 version of this constituency. Following the 2010 redistribution, the constituency is once again entirely within the Borough of Northampton as opposed to 1983 to 2010 when it also took in outlying rural parts outside the town.\n\nThe constituency has income, social housing and unemployment statistics close to the national average and a varied and dynamic service and engineering-centred economy typical of the East Midlands with significant foodstuffs, clothing and consumables manufacturing and processing operations. Health inequality is high, with the life expectancy gap between the least deprived and most deprived men in northampton reaching over 10.2 years. Additionally, the constituency is 'considerably worse than [the] England average' in violent crime, self harm, under 18 conception and GCSE achievement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816390", "title": "Melty Blood", "text": "Melty Blood\n\n, is a visual novel and fighting game, co-developed by dōjin circles Type-Moon and French-Bread, originally released at Comiket in December 2002. It is shortened as simply .\n\nBased on Type Moon's visual novel game, \"Tsukihime\", it later spawned an arcade version titled \"Act Cadenza\", developed by Ecole Software and has also been ported to the PlayStation 2, the first Type-Moon title to receive a console release. A manga version by Takeru Kirishima has been serialized in Kadokawa Shoten's \"Comp Ace\".\n\nThe game is set one year after \"Tsukihime\" and some days after \"Kagetsu Tohya\". In the beginning of August 2001, Shiki Tohno hears of a new series of murders in Misaki Town, similar to the ones that took place in \"Tsukihime\", in the last weeks of October 1999. Whilst searching for the murderer he meets Sion Eltnam Atlasia who initiates a fight with him, attempting to capture him. After the fight she reveals that her reason for trying to capture him is to get in contact with the \"True Ancestor\" (referring to Arcueid) so that she may acquire information on the \"cure for vampirism\". Shiki then decides to help her with this task.\n\nThe story moves through a series of fights. Depending on the outcome of the fight the story will branch in one of two ways. Ultimately this corresponds to the ending of the game.\n\n\"Melty Blood\" makes use of widely used concepts in fighting games such as cancels (canceling a normal attack with a special attack before its animation ends, allowing for more complex and damaging combos) chain combos (normal moves that cancel into other normal moves) and the use of super bars (\"Magic Circuits\"). It also introduces Shielding, an advanced defensive technique.\n\n\nAs of \"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code Ver. 1.07\", there are 31 playable characters.\n\n\"Tsukihime\" characters:\n\n\"Kagetsu Tohya\" characters:\n\n\"Kara no Kyoukai\" characters:\n\nNew characters:\n\nAlternative/bosses and hidden characters:\n\nIn the original \"Melty Blood\", only six (Sion, Arcueid, Ciel, Akiha, Kohaku & Hisui, and Shiki Tohno) of the characters above were available for play, with eight more being unlockable through story mode. However, in a later update released for the game (the \"Nero\" patch), all the characters are available from the start. The reasons for this are slightly unclear; it appears to be the result of a legal misunderstanding whereby Type-Moon mistakenly thought they would no longer be allowed to produce updates/patches, and thus made a \"last patch\" which unlocked the characters as a sort of gift for the fans. Whatever the case, Type-Moon has left these characters available throughout all subsequent releases. In addition, Aoko and Kouma were both added to the game as of \"Act Cadenza\", although Aoko was an unplayable boss character in previous versions. \"Act Cadenza\" also changed the given names of several characters, generally to make easier identification of the doppelgangers by name. Sion later appeared in the spin-off game \"Under Night In-Birth\", referred as her middle name Eltnum.\n\nThe original \"Melty Blood\" was announced on October 8, 2001 at , the dōjin convention hosting only \"Tsukihime\" content. The plan was suggested by Nobuya Narita of Watanabe Seisakujo (French-Bread, from 2003). Kinoko Nasu wrote scenarios and Takashi Takeuchi designed characters. Watanabe Seisakujo developed the game system and pixel arts. They were known as the creator of parody games, but Nasu requested not to break the style of \"Tsukihime\". They had difficulty thinking of attacks because original characters didn't have an attractive skill suited for the fighting game. They also worked hard to create frames of animation exceeding \"Street Fighter III\".\n\nThe full version of \"Melty Blood\" was released in December 2002 for Windows. An expansion patch, \"Re-ACT\" released two years later in May 2004, and an update, \"ReACT Final Tuned\", released in July 2005. An arcade version of the series, \"Melty Blood Act Cadenza\", was later developed by Ecole Software and released in March 2005. Later, a PlayStation 2 version of \"Act Cadenza\" was released on August 10, 2006. A Windows version, \"Melty Blood Act Cadenza Ver.B\", was also released on July 27, 2007. The series' newest game, \"Melty Blood Actress Again\", was released on September 19, 2008.\n\nAn expansion to the original game, featuring an 'Arcade Mode' whose storyline takes place after the original \"Melty Blood\". The expansion made numerous changes in regards to character balance and to remove many infinite-combo sequences. New movesets were created for the doppelgänger characters, whereas in the original, most of these characters had nearly identical movesets to their counterparts. It also made changes to the game's mechanics and added several new characters, though only two are playable the other four NPCs: Ren, Satsuki Yumizuka, Neko-Arc (non-playable character) Executioner Ciel (Ciel holding the Seventh Holy Scripture, non-playable character), White Ren (Sub Boss) and Aoko Aozaki (non-playable boss).\n\nThe final update to \"Re-ACT\", \"Final Tuned\", adds several features designed to allow the game to be configured to resemble the gameplay of \"Melty Blood Act Cadenza\". It also adds a large number of gameplay tweaks and slightly updated animations, such as the inclusion of a new, analog-friendly controller setup; new configuration options that lets players assign multi-button commands to individual buttons; the ability to alter and adjust many of the game's internal variables (via new interface options); and four new colors for each player.\n\n\"Melty Blood Act Cadenza\" was the first arcade port of the series and was published by Ecole Software. The visual novel was removed, while the Arcade Mode dialogue featured in \"Re-ACT\" returns. It completely revamped Aoko Aozaki's movelist for use as a playable character, and introduced Kouma Kishima into the series, a man who was deeply involved in Shiki Tohno's past. It also introduced the Shielding mechanic (separate from EX-Shielding), as well as including various changes to the properties of characters. This version (as well as the later released \"Ver. A\") can be identified by the Atlasia crest, and the phrase \"Through the Looking-Glass, Black Light transparently\", both present in the logo.\n\n\"Melty Blood Act Cadenza\", released for the PlayStation 2, was unique as a port in that it included an option to revert to \"Version A\" mechanics, yet introduced significant changes that were later included in \"Ver. B\", including an early version of Neco-Arc Chaos as a hidden character. It is sometimes known as \"\"Ver. A2\"\".\n\n\"Melty Blood Act Cadenza Ver. B\" is an arcade port of the PS2 game with various changes and upgrades, the most notable of which is the inclusion of White Len as a playable character, with a significantly weakened moveset. It also introduced a fifth button that served as a contextual action depending on the situation and the direction held on the joystick when pressed, such as dodging or throwing. This version can be identified by a dual silhouette of Len and White Len in the logo and the phrase \"Through the Looking-Glass, Northern Light transparently\".\n\n\"Melty Blood Act Cadenza Ver. B2\" is a Windows port of the arcade Ver. B. It has added features including tag-team mode, a 4-player team battle mode, a programmable dummy for training purposes and a new hidden boss character, Neco-Arc Chaos Black G666(replacing G-Akiha from \"Melty Blood Re-ACT\"). It also included subtle gameplay changes, most notably altered defense ratings for characters and adjustments to the game's input system. It was released on July 27, 2007.\n\n\"Melty Blood Actress Again\", is the third game in the Melty Blood fighting game series. It was released in the 4Q 2008 on Sega Naomi hardware. Compared to \"Act Cadenza\", the game features three entirely new playable characters, as well as several new alternate versions of existing characters in the PS2 version. All characters now feature selection between three different fighting styles, known as Full Moon Style, Crescent Moon Style (most similar to \"Act Cadenza\") and Half Moon Style, which changes not only the way in which life and Magic Circuit meters function, but also each characters' basic and special attacks. \"Actress Again\" was first announced in the December 2007 issue of \"Arcadia\", a Japanese consumer arcade game magazine published by Enterbrain; most available information to date is derived from translations of the article in this issue. \n\n\"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code\" is an arcade port of the PS2 version. The game underwent location testing in Akihabara from December 19–20, 2009. The characters formerly exclusive to the PS2 version of \"Actress Again\" became available for use, and the game runs on Sega's RingWide arcade system, as opposed to NAOMI like Act Cadenza and the original Actress Again.\n\nThe game's website was launched February 11, 2010, and after being unveiled officially at Japan's Arcade Operators Union show on February 20, 2010, the game began undergoing another two week round of location testing. Unverified reports stated that the price for the game and RingWide hardware would be ¥230,000 plus ¥100,000 for a RingWide Harness and shipping costs, equaling US$3,560.83 at exchange rates as of May 13, 2010. Several arcade machine distributors showed the game as being pegged for a release on July 29, 2010.\n\nAn upgrade for \"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code\" was launched on 18 May 2011, branded as \"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code Ver. 1.05\", with new changes in gameplay and adding 2 new playable characters, including Powerd Ciel (Ciel's Executioner Version from \"Melty Blood ReACT\") with her own Story Mode and ending, along with new moves and sprites for her. A final upgrade for \"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code\" was launched on 14 October 2011, named \"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code Ver. 1.07\". It includes a complete version of Archetype: Earth (princess version of Arcueid Brunestud) with new sprites and moves and her own Story Mode and ending. Also added were Story Modes and endings for the Neco & Mech and Kohaku & Mech teams. Riesbyfe Stridberg (as happened with Neco-Arc in the PlayStation 2 version of \"Melty Blood Actress Again\") can gain a new route in Story Mode, showing her as living her new life with Sion Eltnam Atlasia and Satsuki Yumizuka as a member of the Back-Alley Alliance (after the endings of Sion and Satsuki).\n\n\"Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code\" was released for Windows on 30 December 2011, along with the Blu-ray release of \"Carnival Phantasm\" Season 3 limited edition. It included an online multiplayer option and an online matching mode. The matching server was taken down on 10 October 2014; however, direct connection is still available. Four patches have been released, the latest one bringing the game to version 1.4.0. This version was made available on Steam, published by Arc System Works on April 19, 2016.\n\nThe \"Melty Blood\" manga, illustrated by Takeru Kirishima was first serialized in Kadokawa Shoten manga magazine Comp Ace in 2006. The series ended in 2011 with eleven bound volumes released in Japan.\n\n\"Destructoid\" concluded their review with \"Nearly 14 years after first bursting onto the scene, Melty Blood has aged to the point of near-perfection. While a few aspects of the package leave something to be desired, the fact remains that, at its core, this is a supreme fighter with a diverse roster and deep, compelling mechanics that merit your attention.\"\n\n\"Melty Blood Act Cadenza\" has been featured at the international fighting game tournament Tougeki in 2006, 2007, and 2008, but was not present at the 2009 Tougeki. \"Melty Blood Actress Again\" was featured at the Evolution Championship Series 2010 tournament after winning a poll, beating titles such as .\n\n"}
{"id": "1816392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816392", "title": "Kingdom of Dalmatia", "text": "Kingdom of Dalmatia\n\nThe Kingdom of Dalmatia (; ; ) was a crown land of the Austrian Empire (1815–1867) and the Cisleithanian half of Austria-Hungary (1867–1918). It encompassed the entirety of the region of Dalmatia, with its capital at Zadar.\n\nThe Habsburg Monarchy had annexed the lands of Dalmatia after the Napoleonic War of the First Coalition: when Napoleon Bonaparte launched his Italian Campaign into the Habsburg duchies of Milan and Mantua in 1796, culminating in the Siege of Mantua, he compelled Emperor Francis II to make peace. In 1797 the Treaty of Campo Formio was signed, whereby the Habsburg emperor renounced possession of the Austrian Netherlands and officially recognized the independence of the Italian Cisalpine Republic. In turn, Napoleon ceded to him the possessions of the Republic of Venice, including the Dalmatian coast (Venetian Dalmatia) and the Bay of Kotor (Venetian Albania). \"La Serenissima\" had sided with Austria in order to defend her \"Domini di Terraferma\" and was occupied by French troops on 14 May 1797. The treaty ended the centuries-long history of the Venetian Republic.\n\nThe newly acquired Habsburg crown land stretched from the Rab Island and Karlobag in the north down the Adriatic coast to Budva in the south, while the Republic of Ragusa (Dubrovnik) retained its independence until 1808. When in 1804 Francis II created the title of Emperor of Austria for himself (as Francis I), he also added that of \"King of Dalmatia\" (\"Dalmatiae Rex\"). However, the possessions were again lost after the Austrian defeat in the Battle of Austerlitz and the 1805 Peace of Pressburg, when they temporarily formed part of the French Illyrian Provinces. Not until the Congress of Vienna in 1814–15 was the Kingdom of Dalmatia formed from the regained territories, now including the former Republic of Ragusa and stretching down to Sutomore in the southeast.\n\nAround 1850, the Austrians had the Prevlaka fortress erected to control the maritime traffic in the Bay of Kotor. Upon the Revolutions of 1848, Dalmatia was temporarily under the control of Ban Josip Jelačić of Croatia. However, the Italian-speaking elite dominating the Diet of Dalmatia urged autonomy for the kingdom as an Austrian crown land against the Croatian national revival movement's demand for a Triune Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia, and Dalmatia. In the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, a unification with the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia was denied. While Croatia-Slavonia was incorporated into the Lands of the Crown of Saint Stephen, Dalmatia remained a crown land of the \"Cislethanian\" (Austrian) half of the Dual Monarchy.\n\nThe kingdom was a separate administrative division of Austria-Hungary until 1918, when its territory except for Zadar and the islands of Lastovo and Palagruza which were annexed by the Kingdom of Italy became part of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia). As a result of the Vidovdan Constitution (in 1921), the majority of the kingdom was divided into the Split Oblast and Dubrovnik Oblast, with the Bay of Kotor being administratively split off to the largely Montenegrin Zeta Oblast.\n\nMany workers and citizens throughout Dalmatia were revolted by the fall of the Venetian Republic in 1797. A strong movement for unification of Dalmatia with Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia has emerged. The Franciscans and many other members of the clergy held gatherings, for example in the village of Gornji Karin, where they demanded unification. They were joined by the Archbishop Lelije Cipiko of Split, Bishop of Makarska and the Orthodox clergy. In June 1797, they formed a delegation which planned to travel to Vienna and ask the Emperor to approve unification but they were precipitated by the Treaty of Campo Formio, so they decided to contact Croatian Ban instead. By the Treaty of Campo Formio, signed on 18 October 1797 between the French First Republic and the Habsburg Monarchy, Venetian territories were divided between the two states with Habsburg Monarchy gaining Istria and Dalmatia. The Austrian army, with about 4,000 soldiers, was led by the Croatian general Mathias Rukavina von Boynograd in the military campaign of claiming newly acquired territories. Rukavina, a supporter of the unification of Dalmatia and Croatia-Slavonia, was named Military Governor of Dalmatia. The people and the clergy were delighted to see the arrival of a Croat-led army composed predominantly of ethnic Croats. However, Dalmatia was treated as a newly-conquered territory so it didn't have an autonomous government but was directly subjected to the Government in Vienna. In 1798, the Royal Government (; ), headed by the governor, was founded in Zadar. Members of the government and the governor were appointed by the Emperor and were subordinated to the \"Royal Court Committee for Istria, Dalmatia, and Albania\" in Venice (; ), and since 1802 to the Viennese Royal Chamber's Section for Dalmatia and Bay of Kotor (). Dalmatia was divided into administrative-court districts, headed by the rectors and judge-administrators. Seats of these districts were in Cres, Krk, Rab, Pag, Zadar, Nin, Novigrad, Skradin, Šibenik, Knin, Sinj, Trogir, Split, Klis, Omiš, Brač, Hvar, Korčula, Imotski, Makarska, Poljica and Metković. In 1802, the Royal Court officially rejected the request for the unification of Dalmatia with the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia. During its short first administration of Dalmatia, the Austrian government didn't much change the existing Venetian system and has only implemented limited reforms in education and the judiciary. In 1803, a gymnasium was opened in Zadar. Following the Austrian defeat against Napoleon, and according to the provisions of the 1805 Peace of Pressburg, Dalmatia was handed over to the French who annexed it to Napoleon's client state - Kingdom of Italy, thus ending first Austrian administration of Dalmatia.\n\nFollowing the Peace of Pressburg, Napoleon sent General Gabriel Jean Joseph Molitor to take over Dalmatia. In February 1806, the French occupied northern Dalmatia down to the Neretva River. The Bay of Kotor, which was also given to the Franch by the Peace, was held by the Russians and their allies Montenegrins. In addition, Russians also occupied the Korčula and sought to capture the Republic of Ragusa.\n\nAccording to the provisions of the Peace of Pressburg, France was entitled to all of Dalmatia and the Bay of Kotor. The territory of the Republic of Ragusa (Dubrovnik) cut off terrestrial connection between those French territories. With Napoleon's army on one side, and the weakened Ottoman Empire on other, the Republic was no longer safe. On May 27, 1806, endangered by Russians, Republic surrendered without resistance to the French troops. Namely, the French squadron of about 1,200 soldiers under the command of General Jacques Lauriston entered the city under the false pretenses. Since the entry of the French army into Dubrovnik, war operations in the Ottoman Empire, led by the joint Russian military and Montenegrin paramilitary forces, who were assisted by Serb population from the hinterland, began. At the beginning of October 1806, with the help of General Auguste de Marmont, the hostile Russian army was expelled from the territory of the Dubrovnik Republic. Shortly thereafter, French took over Dubrovnik's Government. Needs of a large number of French troops financially exhausted Dubrovnik. Dubrovnik Navy was destroyed or lost in the Mediterranean ports, and once very lucrative trade with the hinterland was interrupted. On January 31, 1808, General Marmont, with Napoleon's approval, dissolved the Dubrovnik's Senate and abolished Dubrovnik's independence. After the abolition of the Republic, Dubrovnik area with Bay of Kotor was subjected to Napoleon's Kingdom of Italy and between 1810 and 1814 included in the French Illyrian Provinces.\n\nSoon after the occupation of Dalmatia, Napoleon appointed General Vincenzo Dandolo to the position of the provéditeur général of Dalmatia (appointed on April 28, 1806) and General Auguste de Marmont to the position of a military commander of Dalmatia (appointed on June 12, 1806). Dalmatia was administratively linked to the Kingdom of Italy whose seat was in Milan. On October 14, 1809, Illyrian Provinces were created with the Treaty of Schönbrunn. The center of the \"Dalmatian Government\" (), led by the General Dandolo, was in Zadar. Italian become the official language. Dalmatian interests were advocated (only formally) by the so-called \"Dalmatian minister without portfolio\" who worked at the then central government of the Kingdom of Italy in Milan. Ivan Stratico served as a Minister for a long time. \"Proveditura Generale\" was divided into six departments (judiciary, internal affairs, finance, military affairs, teaching, accounting) that were led by the \"department heads\". In addition, there were also 1 police and 1 military supervisor. All of them were subordinated to the Secretary-General () who was Proveditore Generale's right hand. \"Main Council of Dalmatians\" () was an advisory body. It was composed of 48 members who were chosen by the Government from the districts, one or more from each, according to the number of districts' inhabitants. The first members were appointed by the Government alone, and after each year 12 of them would resign, after which the Council proposed a list from which the Government would then pick 12 new candidates and appoint them to serve on the Council. The Council was presided over by the \"Proveditore Generale\" and it discussed various subjects relevant for Dalmatia. Councils' conclusions were only valid after \"Proveditore Generale\"'s formal confirmation.\n\nThe judiciary was separated from the administration. There were 22 local or reconciliatory courts (), primarily in all districts, as well as in some other more important areas. Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik were seats of the tribunals which were courts of appeal for local courts and first-instance courts in all civil and criminal cases. Furthermore, a Court of Appeal for Tribunal verdicts was established in Zadar, while the Court in Milan was the Supreme Court (). The original intention was to introduce French laws (Napoleonic Code et al.), but it soon became apparent that this would have been unfeasible due to the popular perceptions and customs, especially in property, inheritance and marital affairs. Therefore, in addition to superior French laws, Austrian and Venetian laws were also implied. The equality of all before the law was introduced as well.\n\nDalmatia was territorially divided into counties, districts, municipalities, and villages. According to such division, Dalmatia was divided into four counties: Zadar, Šibenik, Split and Makarska. Zadar County was divided into six districts (Zadar, Krk, Cres, Lošinj, Rab and Pag), Šibenik County into three (Šibenik, Skradin and Knin), Split County into five (Split, Trogir, Sinj, Nerežišća and Hvar) and Makarska into three (Makarska, Imotski and Korčula). County was led by a commissioner (), district by a Vice-commissioner (), municipality by a municipal mayor, and village by an elder captain (). When the Bay of Kotor was given to France by the 1809 Treaties of Tilsit, and a year later the Republic of Dubrovnik was abolished, a special \"Proveditore Generale\", Dominik Garagnin, was appointed to rule over four counties (Cavtat, Ston, Lopud and Kotor) and two districts (Herceg Novi and Budva).\n\nThe new territorial-administrative system has fundamentally redefined the existing Venetian system in Dalmatia. Some forms of governing bodies from the Venetian period were retained, e.g. the position of the \"Proveditore Generale\" and in military terms, the reshuffled institutions of territorial forces. During the French rule in Dalmatia, not much has been done for Dalmatian economic prosperity.\nThe first feature of the cultural revival of Dalmatia under the French administration was the launch of the bilingual weekly Il Regio Dalmata – Kraglski Dalmatin, whose first issue came out on July 12, 1806. Particular attention was devoted to education, as there were virtually no schools in Dalmatia when General Dandolo first arrived. French sought to build road connections with northern Croatia, and partly with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Construction of new roads was probably followed by military-strategic interests (with respect to the maritime blockade of the Adriatic by England and Russia), but they were also used for economic purposes. Many Dalmatians, especially lower clergymen with the Franciscans at their forehead, hated the French administration, seeing in them \"atheists and Jacobins\" because the French revoked numerous privileges of some Dalmatian municipalities and corporations trying to modernize Dalmatia.\n\nAlready in 1811, the British took over Vis from French, and in 1812 Lastovo, Korčula, Pelješac, Hvar, Cavtat, Dubrovnik islands and Split. Kotor was held by the Russians. After Napoleon's defeat in the 1813 Battle of Leipzig, the Austrian Empire took control of the Illyrian provinces. The takeover of Dalmatia was easily accomplished in the fall of 1813 by General Franjo Tomašić and his troops of 2,900 Croatian soldiers, because the people of Dalmatia, under the leadership of the clergy, especially the Franciscans, met them as liberators. After the surrender of Zadar (December 6), General Todor Milutinović went on a military campaign to take over Dubrovnik (succeeding on January 27, 1814) and Bay of Kotor, which he did by June 1814. Thus, territory stretching from Zrmanja river to the town of Budva was again subordinated to Vienna. This was confirmed at the 1815 Congress of Vienna.\n\nBaron Tomašić was appointed new Governor of Dalmatia, while the administration was taken over by the newly formed Provincial Government which was led by Tomašić himself. In order to integrate the area between Rab and Budva, the Viennese court has established a special territorial unit - Kingdom of Dalmatia. With the same intent, Pope Leo XII issued papal bull Locum Beati Petri by which he founded unified Zadar metropolis which was superior to all Dalmatian dioceses, including historical Archdioceses of Split and Dubrovnik. In the period between 1816 and 1822, all new bodies of central and provincial government were founded in Zadar. The judicial reorganization was carried out as well. These administrative and judicial bodies worked until 1852/1854 and some until 1868, when the whole administration was reformed, when new judicial organs and provincial governing bodies were established. Such organization, with minor changes, remained in force until 1918. By the provisions of the 1861 February Patent, Diet of Dalmatia was founded. Austrians were bringing foreign civil servants to Dalmatia, mostly from Austria and northern Italy (then part of the Monarchy). In 1832, a new road that went through Velebit's Mali Alan mountain pass was opened. It was the only connection between Dalmatia and continental Croatia. The Austrian government increased the number of schools; by 1839 there were 50, and by 1846 around 150, attended by a third of school children. Croatian language in schools was almost an exception in comparison to Italian.\n\nFrench and Austrian rule greatly contributed to Croatian national awakening in Dalmatia, which was also influenced by the ideas of the Illyrian movement, active in the Kingdom of Croatia. In 1835, Božidar Petranović began printing \"Serbo-Dalmatian Magazine\" () in Zadar, while in 1844 Ante Kuzmanić launched Zora dalmatinska magazine () and began working on the linguistic and national awareness of the Dalmatians, which was until then only encouraged by the clergy. Revolutionary 1848 initially created political division between the \"markists\", who wanted to rebuild the Republic of St. Mark, and the \"monarchists\", proponents of the Habsburg Monarchy. As wealthy Italians had full control over cities and their assemblies due to the electoral system, proposals of the Croatian Kingdom's county and city assemblies to the \"Dalmatian brothers of the same blood and language\" for the unification of Dalmatia and Croatia, were rejected. Nevertheless, Croatian national movement was very strong. In response to the Autonomist Party's refusal to accept unification, vicars and inhabitants of the Dalmatian Hinterland sent a letter to the Croatian ban Josip Jelačić in which they stated that they were still seeking unification and that its opponents were in the great minority. In December 1848, Emperor Franz Joseph I appointed Jelačić Governor of Dalmatia. His appointment was opposed by the Split and Zadar municipalities (both governed by the Autonomist Party), while Croats, especially those in Dubrovnik, met Jelačić with great expectations that were later mostly not fulfilled. Jelačić's role remained largely ceremonial, and the Viennese court refused any discussion on the matter of unification. In 1851, ban Jelačić visited Kingdom, and was welcomed with special enthusiasm in Dobrota. In order to counter the opponents of unification (Italians in particular), Croats were establishing public libraries and cultural societies throughout Dalmatia, mostly under the \"Slavic\" name. Eventually, Government made the decision by which the Croatian language was taught as a second language in Dalmatian schools. However, there weren't many schools in which the Croatian language was being taught so that's why the Franciscans founded first Croatian gymnasium in 1854 in Sinj.\n\nIn 1860, Emperor Franz Joseph I decided to renew Empires' constitutional and political life so he convened an expanded Imperial Council. Representatives of the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia, Ambroz Vranyczany and Josip Juraj Strossmayer, raised the question of the unification of the Kingdoms of Croatia-Slavonia and Dalmatia. A representative of Dalmatia, Frane Borelli, stated that the Italians were indeed a minority in Dalmatia, but that he didn't believe it was the right time for unification. At the time, there were two opposing political parties in Dalmatia: Croatian nationalist liberal People's Party, led by Miho Klaić and Mihovil Pavlinović, and Italian nationalist conservative Autonomist Party, led by Antonio Bajamonti and Luigi Lapenno. Autonomist Party was supported by the Dalmatian Governor Lazar Mamula, the cities of Zadar and Split, some other smaller cities and municipalities, as well as the Viennese court that feared the weakening of Austria in relation to Croatia-Slavonia and Hungary if the unification happened. People's Party was supported by Stari Grad, Vrboska, Metković, Bol, Dubrovnik and Kotor. The main point of People's Party program was the unification of Dalmatia with Croatia-Slavonia and the introduction of Croatian language in the administration and education.\n\nOn the occasion of the convocation of the \"Ban's Conference\" in Zagreb in 1860, representatives from Dalmatia were invited to discuss unification, but the Autonomist Party, supported by Ante Mamula, obstructed initiative. Diet of Dalmatia was first convened in 1861. Autonomist Party held the majority of seats due to the unfair electoral system by which large landowners, clerks, and representatives of wealthy citizens, although accounting for only around 20% of the Dalmatian population, had a significant advantage. Diet refused unification of Dalmatia with Croatia-Slavonia. The Austro-Prussian War and Third Italian War of Independence resulted in the 1866 maritime Battle of Vis. After the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, which strengthened the division and unveiled the prospect of unification of Dalmatia with Croatia-Slavonia to a minimum, the People's Party returned to the political and cultural struggle to croatize Dalmatia, especially focusing on schools, wanting to introduce Croatian as a teaching language. Therefore, their aim was to win power in the municipalities, since the school curriculums were within the municipal scope. In 1862, they launched a weekly in Italian \"Il Nazionale\" in order to win over voters whose primary language was Italian. They later started publishing weekly in Croatian Narodni list () as well. In 1869, Mihovil Pavlinović wrote Croatian political program -\"Hrvatska misao\" (), in which he advocated the Croatian right to independence and the establishment of unified and constitutional Croatian state that would have included all \"historical Croatian territories\", including Dalmatia.\n\nIn October 1869, an armed revolt known as the Krivošije uprising occurred in the Bay of Kotor hinterland region of Krivošije. The uprising broke out after a decisive Prussian victory over the Austrian Empire in the 1866 Battle of Königgrätz, and the consequent introduction of mandatory conscription for the people from that region who were by then traditionally exempt from conscription. Due to conscription, sailors lost essential years they could have used for working at sea. People that lived in the mountains were disarmed so they lost the opportunity to go to Herzegovina to hunt small and large cattle. The formal peace accord, by which the conscription was abandoned, and people allowed to retain their weapons, was signed on 11 January 1870.\n\nMembers of the People's and Autonomist parties were increasingly clashing as tensions began to rise. On July 31, 1869, during the visit of the Italian ship on a hydrographic mission, a clash between Italian sailors and Croatian citizens of Šibenik broke out. 14 Italian sailors and a few Croats were seriously injured. This clash turned into a diplomatic conflict between the Kingdom of Italy and Austria-Hungary, known as the \"Monzambano Affair\". In the meantime, the People's Party started getting better organized and slowly winning rural municipalities in the Dalmatian Hinterland and on the islands, which culminated in the 1870 election, when it won the majority of seats in the Diet. On February 15, 1873, the Party won the first major city - Šibenik, where Ante Šupuk was elected mayor. In 1882, despite intimidation and violence by the Autonomist Party's paramilitary units, the People's Party Gajo Bulat defeated the Autonomist Party's Antonio Bajamonti, thus becoming the Mayor of Split. Shortly thereafter, the People's Party won the election in the Stari Grad and Trogir municipalities, while the Autonomist Party only governed Zadar. In 1883, Croatian was proclaimed the official language of the Diet of Dalmatia.\n\nAt the same time, the network of Croatian schools grew. In 1866, the \"Croatian Teachers' School\" () was opened in Arbanasi near Zadar. In 1883, there were about 300 primary, and 3 high schools (in Dubrovnik, Kotor and Split) in which the Croatian language was thought. In 1898, Croatian gymnasium was opened in Zadar.\n\nEver since Vuk Karadžić, Ilija Garašanin and Jovan Subotić started writing about Dalmatia as a Serbian land, and following the recognition of the Kingdom of Serbia as an independent state at the 1878 Congress of Berlin, the different interests of Croats and Serbs in Dalmatia became more evident. Serbs continuously started mentioning Dalmatia as a \"Serbian land\". After Croatia's enthusiasm with the Austro-Hungarian occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which involved numerous Croatian soldiers from Dalmatia, many of whom had died, and the request for the unification of Bosnia-Herzegovina with Croatia-Slavonia, the conflict was inevitable. In 1879, Serbs from Bukovica voted for the Italian candidate of the Autonomist Party, instead of People's Party Mihovil Klaić. The People's Party called this the \"Bukovica betrayal\". Shortly afterward, separate Croatian and Serbian parties were founded, but Croats still held a majority in the Diet of Dalmatia.\n\nIn November 1881, Serbs and Montenegrins that lived in the hinterland of the Bay of Kotor, on the territory of the Kingdom of Dalmatia, rebelled against the mandatory conscription, which was the obligation of all citizens of the Monarchy. The Austrian army, headed by field marshal Stjepan Jovanović, suppressed this rebellion in May 1882.\n\nIn 1891, Frano Supilo started publishing \"Crvena Hrvatska\" (), the journal in which he was writing against Serbian pretensions on Dalmatia and in favor of the unification of Dalmatia with Croatia. In 1893, on the occasion of the erection of a monument dedicated to Ivan Gundulić in Dubrovnik, there were great tensions between Croats and Serbs. Namely, many Croatian dignitaries, politicians, and artists came to Dubrovnik so the festivity turned into an exhibition of Croatian nationalism when people started chanting for Croatia, as opposed to the wishes of the local Serbs and some of the people of Dubrovnik who were proponents of Serbian ideas, like Medo Pucić.\n\nWith the affirmation of the so-called \"New Direction Policy\", Serbo-Croatian relations started getting better. This was confirmed by the signing of the Zadar Resolution on 25 February 1907. Dr. Lovro Monti stated: \"With Serbs, we can do a lot, without Serbs a little, and against Serbs nothing.\" In 1905, for the first time, a native of Dalmatia, Niko Nardelli (NS), was appointed Governor. In 1912, Italian was abolished in public offices and courts. However, the Austrian government still used Italian and German in its official correspondence.\n\nImmediately upon the outbreak of the First World War, all organizations that the government considered close to Serbia or to the idea of the creation of a single state for all South Slavic peoples were forbidden. Many prominent politicians were persecuted and arrested while some emigrated. Until 1915, when Kingdom of Italy suddenly switched sides to the Allies, there were no war operations on the Adriatic, but since then the maritime conflicts become frequent. Due to the Allied blockade of the Strait of Otranto, trade in the Adriatic almost completely stopped. The government recruited many ships for military purposes, while the civilian sailing has been almost completely suspended. Mandatory blackouts were imposed on the islands and in the ports due to the fear of bombing. A number of church bells were removed, melted and used for war purposes. Fighting was also taking place around Lastovo and the distant islands so artillery batteries were placed there. In 1917, French Air Force bombed Lastovo.\n\nIn Dalmatia, hunger and scarcity began to emerge, while at the same time Hungarian laws banned the export of foodstuff to the Austrian half of the Monarchy (which Dalmatia was part of) in the case of war. Dalmatia received food aid through the port of Trieste, but the amounts were inadequate, sometimes even completely useless, and often arriving too late (for example, supplies intended for 1917 arrived in 1918). Therefore, Franciscans and benefactors from Zagreb organized the action of sending Dalmatian children to Slavonia and Moslavina so they could have adequate nutrition. The war destroyed Dalmatian agriculture. At the end of the war, epidemics of the typhus, cholera, smallpox and Spanish influenza broke out, causing the death of many people.\n\nIn 1915, Croats made up 34% of Austro-Hungarian Navy personal. Apart from the Navy, Dalmatians also fought in land units, namely in the \"22nd Imperial Regiment, 23rd Zadar Imperial Home Guard Regiment, 37th Dubrovnik Imperial Regiment and the Dalmatian Mounted Rifles\". Following the Italian announcement of war, Croats were mostly sent to fight on fronts against Italy because the government expected them to be motivated to fight against those who mistreated them in the past.\n\nAs the war ceased, there were also cases of defection, and in February 1918 the rebellion of sailors in the Bay of Kotor broke out. In 1917, representatives of Dalmatia in Imperial Council headed by Vjekoslav Spinčić, Josip Smodlak and Ivo Prodan, wrote the May Declaration, in which they presented a program of unification of all South Slavs within the Austria-Hungary that had to be divided into three equal parts - Austria, Hungary, and Croatia. At the end of the war, the \"National Council for Dalmatia\" was founded in Zadar and the unified \"National Organization for Dalmatia\" in Split. These bodies soon started to independently govern Dalmatia. In the last days of the Monarchy, General Stjepan Sarkotić managed to convince Hungarian Prime Minister Sándor Wekerle and Emperor Charles I. to support the unification of Dalmatia with Croatia, but that didn't happen until the collapse of the Monarchy in 1918. On October 29, 1918, when the Austro-Hungarian Parliament dismantled, the Croatian Parliament passed a decision by which Croatia terminated state-law relations with Austria-Hungary and, together with Dalmatia and town of Rijeka, joined State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs.\n\nAccording to M. Lorković, the total population of Dalmatia numbered 297,912 in 1818; 326,739 in 1825; 338,599 in 1830; 390,381 in 1840; and 393,715 in 1850.\n\nBased on the 1857 census, the Kingdom of Dalmatia had 415,628 inhabitants. According to an analysis of the 1857 census, 318,500 (76.5%) inhabitants were Croats, 77,500 (18.5%) were Serbs, and ca. 20,000 were Italian-speakers (5%). The percentage of Dalmatian Serbs had been 19.9% in the 1830–50 period. In the cities, the inhabitants were 71% Croat, 22% Italian and 7% Serb. There were 745 Serbs in Kotor; in all other cities there were fewer than 400. The number of Serbs in Dalmatia fell; however, in the north it rose. Among the Orthodox, there was one priest for every 400 people, while among the Catholics, there was one priest for every 330 people.\n\nThe 1880 Austrian census, recorded the following ethnic groups in the Kingdom:\n\n\nThe 1900 Austrian census:\n\n\nAccording to the official 1910 Austrian census, population by religion and mother language was:\n\nThe major cities were (1900):\n\n\nFrom 1822 to 1868 the Kingdom of Dalmatia was administratively divided into four circles (counties, Italian: \"circoli\" or \"capitanati circolari\", Croatian: \"okruzi\" or \"okružna poglavarstva\") - Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik and Kotor - these were subdivided into smaller districts (Italian: \"distretti\"-\"preture\", Croatian: \"kotari\"-\"preture\"), each comprised municipalities (Italian: \"comuni\", Croatian: \"općine\"). In 1868 the circles were abolished and Dalmatia was divided into 12 larger (administrative) districts (Italian: \"distretti politici\" or \"capitanati distrettuali\", Croatian: \"kotari\" or \"kotarska poglavarstva\") whose capitals were (1880):\n\n\nDistricts, as governmental units with the government-appointed prefect (Italian: \"capitano distrettuale\", Croatian: \"kotarski poglavar\"), were subdivided into judicial districts (Italian: \"distretti giudiziari\", Croatian: \"sudski kotari\") and these into municipalities (Italian: \"comuni\", Croatian: \"općine\") as local authorities with the elected municipal council (Italian: \"consiglio comunale\", Croatian: \"općinsko vijeće\")\nand the mayor (Italian: \"podestà\", Croatian: \"načelnik\") elected by the council.\n\nThe Roman Catholic archbishop had his seat in Zadar, while the diocese of Kotor, diocese of Hvar, diocese of Dubrovnik, diocese of Šibenik and diocese of Split were bishoprics. At the head of the Orthodox community stood the bishop of Zadar.\n\nThe use of Croatian-Slavonic liturgies written in the Glagolitic alphabet, a very ancient privilege of the Roman Catholics in Dalmatia and Croatia, caused much controversy during the first years of the 20th century. There was considerable danger that the Latin liturgies would be altogether superseded by the Glagolitic, especially among the northern islands and in rural communes, where the Slavonic element is all-powerful. In 1904, the Vatican forbade the use of Glagolitic at the festival of SS. Cyril and Methodius, as likely to impair the unity of Catholicism. A few years previously the Slavonic archbishop Rajcevic of Zara, in discussing the \"Glagolitic controversy\", had denounced the movement as \"an innovation introduced by Panslavism to make it easy for the Catholic clergy, after any great revolution in the Balkan States, to break with Latin Rome.\"\n\nHead of the Austrian imperial administration in Dalmatia was Imperial-Royal Provincial Governor (Italian: \"I. R. Governatore Provinciale\", Croatian: \"c. k. Guverner\") appointed by the emperor. From 1852 he was known as Imperial-Royal Lieutenant (Italian: \"I. R. Luogotenente\", Croatian: \"c. k. Namjesnik\").\n\nMilitary units in the kingdom at the start of the First World War:\n\n\nThe Kingdom of Dalmatia held elections to the Parliament of Dalmatia in 1861, 1864, 1867, 1870, 1876, 1883, 1889, 1895, 1901, 1908.\n\nIn the 1907 elections, Dalmatia elected the following representatives to the lower chamber of the Reichsrat (Imperial Council)\n\n\nIn the 1911 elections, Dalmatia elected the following representatives:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816393", "title": "The Sun Makers", "text": "The Sun Makers\n\nThe Sun Makers is the fourth serial of the 15th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 26 November to 17 December 1977.\n\nThe serial is set on Pluto. In the serial, the alien time traveller the Fourth Doctor (Tom Baker) and his travelling companions Leela (Louise Jameson) and K9 (John Leeson) start a revolution among the humans against an alien corporation which has an economic hold over humanity.\n\nThe inhabitants of Pluto in the far future are taxed to desperation, including the functionary Cordo, who is so overwhelmed by the size of his tax bill that he decides to take his own life. He is interrupted by the arrival of the Fourth Doctor and Leela from the TARDIS, who save him and discover that false suns have been created around Pluto to provide the ability for some of mankind to live. However, the Company which owns the suns and the buildings on Pluto is using its economic stranglehold to extort ever growing taxes through extreme usury. The Doctor is concerned at this economic and social structure, where each Megropolis is ruled by a taxation Gatherer, and the entire operation on the planet reports to a malevolent Collector. Some citizens have rejected this social order and live in the dark tunnels of the Undercity. The Doctor, Leela and Cordo venture there and encounter the renegades of the undercity, vicious thieves and dropouts led by the brutal Mandrel. He tells the Doctor that he must use a stolen consum-card to obtain money from a cashpoint or Leela will be killed.\n\nThe Gatherer of Megropolis One, Hade, is alerted to the arrival of the TARDIS. He uses an electronic tracker to follow K9, who has departed the craft in search of his master. K9 finds the Doctor and Cordo at a cashpoint where the Gatherer sees them and suspects they must be arms dealers. He orders his private guard, the Inner Retinue, to deal with them. When the Doctor tries the stolen card, he is overpowered by noxious gas and falls unconscious.\n\nWhen the Doctor awakes, he is in a Correction Centre alongside another detainee, Bisham. They are likely to be tortured, but the Doctor is concerned for Leela, whom Mandrel threatened to kill if the Doctor did not return. Leela has defended herself, though, and Cordo, who evaded capture, returns to the Undercity with news of the Doctor’s capture. This increases Leela's standing with the thieves, and the threat over her life diminishes. The Doctor’s lot improves when he is released for questioning by Gatherer Hade, but Hade orders his movements tracked, believing the Doctor will lead him to the heart of a conspiracy against the Company. Not knowing about this change in fortunes, Leela, Cordo and K9 attack the Correction Centre to try to rescue the Doctor. He has left, but they free Bisham. As they leave their travel routes are blocked by Inner Retinue troopers.\n\nLeela leads her friends in an attack on the guards, but she is injured and falls from a troop transporter they have commandeered. The Doctor has returned to the Undercity to find Mandrel, who refuses to believe he could have been simply released after such a crime. Cordo returns with Bisham and K9 and explains what has happened to Leela. He also uses a stolen blaster to force Mandrel to stop threatening the Doctor. He persuades the Undercity dwellers to revolt. Their first target is the main control area where the Company engineers PCM, a fear-inducing drug which helps keep the population servile and is being added to the air.\n\nLeela is presented to the Collector, an odious humanoid in a life-support wheelchair. The Collector deduces that Hade’s conspiracy theory was unfounded and orders that Leela is steamed to death. The Doctor saves Leela, but the microphones set up to relay her death screams instead relay the sound of Mandrel warning the Doctor of how little time he has left to rescue her. The Collector is incensed and even more troubled when the revolution starts spreading. Gatherer Hade is thrown to his death from the top of his Megropolis, and his underling, Marn, joins the revolution.\n\nLeela and the Doctor head for the Collector's Palace, where The Doctor sabotages the computer system. The Collector arrives and is challenged by the Doctor, who discovers that he is a Usurian, a seaweed-like sentient poisonous fungus, from the planet Usurius. The Doctor denounces his operation on Pluto, which consumed Mars as well as the population were moved from Earth. Before the Collector can implement a plan to gas the population of Pluto, Cordo and the lead rebels help the Doctor defeat the remaining members of the Inner Retinue. The Collector checks his computer to find the Doctor's input has resulted in projected bankruptcy, and the shock causes the Collector to revert to his natural state in a compartment at the base of his wheelchair. The Doctor seals him in, and he and Leela depart with K9, leaving Cordo, Mandrel and the others to contemplate recolonising the Earth.\n\nMichael Keating also appeared in the audio play \"The Twilight Kingdom\" as Major Koth and in \"Year of the Pig\" as Inspector Chardalot. Louise Jameson stated in the DVD commentary of the story and on the commentary for \"The Talons of Weng-Chiang\" that \"The Sun Makers\" was her favourite serial.\n\nRobert Holmes intended the serial to be a satire of his own experiences with the Inland Revenue services. However, much of the political content was toned down by order of producer Graham Williams, who feared it would be controversial among viewers. Many of the letters and numbers used to denote the labyrinth of corridors in the city, for example P45, allude to well-known tax and Governmental forms, and the abbreviation used to refer to the suppressant gas 'PCM' also stands for Per Calendar Month. The actor who played the Collector, Henry Woolf, had deep bushy eyebrows, very reminiscent of the then-Chancellor of the Exchequer, Denis Healey. However, Holmes presented the villains of the piece as working for a private corporation rather than a government.\n\nThe director had originally intended that the giant credit cards featured in the story should resemble Barclaycards. This was vetoed by producer Graham Williams who said that it would be free publicity for the bank.\n\nNear the end of Part Two, when prompted by Mandrel for a story, the Doctor begins, \"Once upon a time, there were three sisters...\" mirroring the same story he started telling Sarah Jane Smith near the end of Part Three in \"The Android Invasion\" (1975).\n\nThe Doctor refers to Galileo Galilei in passing, saying, \"Galileo will be pleased.\" When one of the rebels rhetorically asks the Doctor, \"What have we got to lose?\" he replies, \"Only your claims!\" This is a playful paraphrase of the famous slogan derived from the last lines of \"The Communist Manifesto\". K-9 refers to Pluto as \"the ninth planet.\" It was regarded as such at the time the programme was written and broadcast; in 2006, Pluto lost that distinction when it was redefined as dwarf planet. In this episode, Leela and the Doctor are identified as \"terrorists.\" In real life, Leela's character was partially based on Palestinian revolutionary Leila Khaled.\n\nThe story was repeated on BBC1 on consecutive Thursdays from 10 – 31 August 1978, achieving viewing figures of 3.2, 6.5, 6.5 and 7.1 million viewers respectively.\n\nThe BBC's Audience Research Report recorded a positive reaction from contemporary viewers, who were pleased the story and characters were more realistic, as well as finding the serial entertaining and well-developed. However, a \"substantial minority\" were less positive, finding it average science fiction and not strange enough. The Report also found that audiences rated the production values and Jameson's performance as Leela highly, while K9 was popular with younger viewers.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping wrote of the serial in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), \"A clever script is balanced by a straight-forward plot, although the subtlety of some of the jokes will be lost on a younger audience.\" In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker praised the \"high level of sophisticated humour\" that satirized the tax system. In 2010, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" also gave \"The Sun Makers\" a positive review, calling it very successful in terms of the writer's objectives and described it as \"playful, witty, ingenious\". In addition, he praised the performances, design, and music, and only noted minor faults such as the improbability that the Plutonians had never questioned their society. DVD Talk's Ian Jane gave the serial four out of five stars, saying that it \"may not rank up there with the best that the series has to offer but it sure is a fun diversion\". While he noted the high production values, he felt that the serial's strength was its script and performances. Dave Golder of \"SFX\" was less positive, giving \"The Sun Makers\" two and a half out of five stars. He wrote, \"The satire is rather blunt, and the gags don't make up for a story that's even more about running down corridors than normal. And these ones are really boring corridors (the concept of set-dressing clearly having eluded the designer). Some good performances and an on-form Tom Baker keep it watchable.\"\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in November 1982. Dicks chose to tone down the scene in which revolutionaries cheer as they hurl one of their former oppressors from a roof, reducing the apparent horror so that the rebels concerned feel that their actions have gone \"a bit too far\".\nThis story was released on VHS in July 2001. \"The Sun Makers\" was released on region 2 DVD on 1 August 2011.\n\nThe February 2020 issue of \"Doctor Who Magazine\" announced that Dudley Simpson's score for this serial will be released on CD and vinyl. Release date and track listing were announced on 1 May 2020\n"}
{"id": "1816394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816394", "title": "Ted Simmons", "text": "Ted Simmons\n\nTed Lyle Simmons (born August 9, 1949) is an American former professional baseball player and coach. A switch-hitter, Simmons was a catcher for most of his Major League Baseball (MLB) career with the St. Louis Cardinals (1968–80), the Milwaukee Brewers (1981–85) and the Atlanta Braves (1986–88). Although he was often overshadowed by his contemporary, Johnny Bench, Simmons is considered one of the best hitting catchers in MLB history. While he didn't possess Bench's power hitting ability, he hit for a higher batting average. A volatile competitor with an intense desire to win, Simmons once fought with teammate John Denny during a game at Busch Memorial Stadium, in the runway between the clubhouse and dugout.\n\nAt the time of his retirement, Simmons led all catchers in career hits and doubles and ranked second in RBIs behind Yogi Berra and second in total bases behind Carlton Fisk. He also retired with the National League record for home runs by a switch-hitter despite playing several years in the American League. Simmons hit .300 seven different times, hit 20 home runs six times, and caught 122 shutouts, eighth-most all-time. He was elected into the Baseball Hall of Fame in December 2019.\n\nSimmons attended Southfield High School in Southfield, Michigan, a suburb northwest of Detroit, and graduated in 1967. The St. Louis Cardinals selected Simmons in the first round, with the tenth overall selection, of the 1967 Major League Baseball draft. He received a $50,000 signing bonus from St. Louis to bypass his commitment to the University of Michigan. He made his professional debut in the Gulf Coast League, where he batted 7-for-20 (.350), before the Cardinals promoted him to the Cedar Rapids Cardinals of the Class A Midwest League. In 1968, he played for the Modesto Reds of the Class A California League, where he batted .331, with 28 home runs and 117 runs batted in (RBIs) in 136 games played.\n\nSimmons made his major league debut with the Cardinals at the age of 18, appearing in two games during the 1968 pennant-winning season. Simmons spent another year in Triple-A with the Tulsa Oilers before returning to the major leagues in 1970 where he platooned with Joe Torre. In 1971, the Cardinals converted Torre into a third baseman and Simmons took over as their starting catcher, posting a .304 batting average with seven home runs and 77 RBIs. He finished 16th in balloting for the 1971 National League Most Valuable Player Award as the Cardinals finished in second place behind the Pittsburgh Pirates in the National League Eastern Division.\n\nSimmons refused to sign a contract for the amount of salary offered by the Cardinals in 1972, electing to play without a contract. He ultimately signed a contract well into the season during which he was recognized as one of the top catchers in the league by earning a spot as a reserve on the 1972 National League All-Star team. He finished the year with a .303 batting average with 16 home runs and 96 RBIs, breaking Walker Cooper's team record for RBIs by a catcher and, set the team record for home runs by a catcher, previously held jointly by Gene Oliver and Tim McCarver. His defense began to improve as well, posting a .991 fielding percentage and leading National League catchers in assists and in putouts. Despite the Cardinals finishing the season in fourth place, Simmons would finish in 10th place in the National League Most Valuable Player Award balloting. Simmons continued to produce offensively in 1973 with a .310 batting average, along with 13 home runs and 91 RBIs. He also led the league's catchers in putouts and finished second in assists, earning his second All-Star berth as the Cardinals again finished the season in second place.\n\nIn 1975, Simmons hit 18 home runs along with 100 RBIs and posted a career-high .332 batting average, finishing second in the National League batting championship behind Bill Madlock. He also set a National League single-season record for most hits by a catcher with 188. He finished in 6th place in the National League Most Valuable Player Award balloting as the Cardinals ended the season in fourth place. Simmons broke Johnny Bench's nine-year stranglehold as the starting catcher for the National League All-Star team when he was elected to be the starting catcher for the National League in the 1978 All-Star Game. Simmons led the Cardinals in RBIs every year from 1972 until 1978. He had another strong year in 1980, hitting .303 with 21 home runs and 98 RBIs to win the inaugural Silver Slugger Award which is awarded annually to the best offensive player at each position.\n\nBy the late-1970s, Simmons was throwing out less than one-third of potential basestealers. During the 1980 season, Cardinals manager Whitey Herzog wanted Simmons moved to first base and Keith Hernandez to left field for the first six innings, with the latter often reverting to his original position at the end of games. Simmons' refusal and the ensuing feud with Herzog led to him being traded along with Rollie Fingers and Pete Vuckovich to the Milwaukee Brewers for Sixto Lezcano, Lary Sorensen, Dave LaPoint and David Green at the 1980 Winter Meetings on December 12. His batting average fell to .216 in his first season in the American League but, he rebounded in 1982 with a .269 batting average with 23 home runs and 97 RBIs and led American League catchers with a .995 fielding percentage in 121 games. The Brewers clinched the American League Eastern Division title, then defeated the California Angels in the 1982 American League Championship Series. Simmons met his old team, the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1982 World Series, hitting two home runs before the Brewers lost in a seven-game series. Simmons had one more good year in 1983 when he hit for a .308 batting average with 13 home runs and 108 RBIs and earned his eighth and final All-Star berth. His batting average fell to .221 in 1984, though Simmons rebounded in 1985 with a .273 average and 76 RBI's, and in March 1986 he was traded to the Atlanta Braves. He spent three seasons with the Braves as a utility player and pinch hitter before retiring as a player in 1988 at the age of 38.\n\nIn a twenty-one-year major league career, Simmons played in 2,456 games, accumulating 2,472 hits in 8,680 at bats for a .285 career batting average along with 248 home runs, 1,389 runs batted in and a .348 on-base percentage. He ended his career with a .986 fielding percentage. An eight-time All-Star, he batted above .300 seven times, reached 20 home runs six times, and eight times exceeded 90 runs batted in. He switch-hit home runs in a game three times and established a since-broken National League career record for home runs by a switch-hitter (182). Simmons held major league records for catchers with 2,472 career hits and 483 doubles, since broken by Iván Rodríguez. He ranks second all-time among catchers with 1,389 runs batted in and 10th with 248 home runs. He caught 122 shutouts in his career, ranking him eighth all-time among major league catchers. In his book, \"The Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract\", baseball historian Bill James ranked Simmons 10th all-time among major league catchers.\n\n\nIn 1992, Simmons was hired as general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates. He served in that position for only a year, retiring after suffering a heart attack in June 1993. In Spring training 1992 Simmons had agreed to trade left fielder Barry Bonds to the Atlanta Braves, but backed out when Pirates manager Jim Leyland threatened to quit. He also was Director of Player Development for both the Cardinals and San Diego Padres, and a scout at the Major League level for the Cleveland Indians. He was named the bench coach for the Milwaukee Brewers starting with the 2008 season. On September 15, 2008, he was reassigned to another position within the organization.\n\nIn November 2008 Simmons was named bench coach for the Padres under manager Bud Black, replacing Craig Colbert. He was hired on November 5, 2010 as a senior advisor to general manager Jack Zduriencik of the Seattle Mariners. Simmons rejoined the Braves in October 2015, as a scout.\n\nSimmons first became eligible for election to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1994, but received less than 5% of the vote on his first ballot, thus becoming ineligible for future election by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. In December 2017, he missed being elected to the Hall of Fame via the Veterans Committee by one vote, but was elected in December 2019 for the Class of 2021, as no events are scheduled in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816400", "title": "Djall", "text": "Djall\n\nDjall or Dreq is the personification of evil in Albanian mythology and folklore. The name is used also for a demon of fire.\n\nThe name \"djall\" derives from the Latin \"diabolus\", \"devil\". Alternative forms are \"dreqi\" from the Latin \"draco\", \"dragon\", \"satan\" and \"shejtan\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816401", "title": "Proetida", "text": "Proetida\n\nProetida is an order of trilobite that lived from the Ordovician to the Permian. It was the last order of trilobite to go extinct, finally dying out in the Permian extinction.\n\nThese typically small trilobites resemble those of the order Ptychopariida, from which the new order Proetida was separated in 1975 by Fortey and Owens. Like the order Phacopida, the proetids have exoskeletons that sometime have pits or small tubercles, especially on the glabella (middle portion of the head). Because of their resemblance to the Ptychopariida in some features, the proetids are included in the subclass Librostoma.\n\nUnlike the trilobites of the Phacopid suborder Phacopina, whose eyes are schizochroal, the proetids have the more common holochroal eyes. These eyes are characterized by close packing of biconvex lenses beneath a single corneal layer that covers all of the lenses. Each lens is generally hexagonal in outline and in direct contact with the others. They range in number from one to more than 15,000 per eye. Eyes are usually large, and because the individual lenses are hard to make out, they look smooth and sometimes bead-like.\n\nThe thorax of proetids was made up of anywhere between 8–22 segments, but most commonly 10. Many also extend the backcorners of the headshield into so-called genal spines. These two features can aid in distinguishing proetids from some Phacopid trilobites in the suborder Phacopina, to which they can be very similar.\n\nOpinions about the composition of and the affinities within the Proetids, and to other trilobites, have been very divergent over time. In 2011 it was suggested to retain in Proetida only the families Proetidae and Tropidocoryphidae. The remainder of the families should be combined in a new proposed order, Aulacopleurida (Adrian, 2011), that would consist of the families Aulacopleuridae, Brachymetopidae, Dimeropygidae, Rorringtoniidae, Scharyiidae, Bathyuridae, Telephinidae, Holotrachelidae and Hystricuridae (considered Proetida before), combined with the Ptychopariid families Alokistocaridae, Crepicephalidae, Ehmaniellidae, Marjumiidae, Solenopleuridae and Tricrepicephalidae.\n\nThe reasoning for this proposed split is based on differences in early larval stages. While the remaining Proetida taxa have globular larvae very unlike the adult form, the Aulacopleurids have adultlike larvae with paired spines. Others observe that globular non-adult larvae also occur in some taxa within the proposed order Aulacopleurida. More recently phylogenetic analysis of both larval and adult characters suggests the Proetids as earlier understood probably are monophyletic. Two larval characters are unique to all Proetida; the first is that the eye develops on the side of the headshield, not at the front, and the second is a forwardly tapering glabella that is distanced from the rim of the headshield.\n\nThe analysis identifies the taxa Asaphida, Olenina and Phacopida (including the Holotrachelidae) as sister groups. The earliest branch in Proetida is the family Hystricuridae. This is followed by a branch that consists of the families Dimeropygidae and Toernquistiidae. At the third node, the superfamily Aulacopleuroidea (consisting of Aulacopleuridae and Brachymetopidae) split off. The fourth branch is the family Scharyiidae. The fifth branch consists of the families Roringtoniidae and Tropidocoryphidae. The sixth node combines a restricted Bathyuridae split off from \"Bathyurella\" with the family Proetidae (including Phillipsiidae, which, according to Lamsdell, has been demoted to the subfamily Phillipsiinae).\n\nThe following superfamilies, families and genera are recognized:\n\nFamily Aulacopleuridae\nFamily Brachymetopidae\nFamily Rorringtoniidae\n\nFamily Bathyuridae\nFamily Dimeropygidae (including Celmidae)\nFamily Holotrachelidae\nFamily Hystricuridae\nFamily Raymondinidae (including Glaphuridae)\nFamily Telephinidae\nFamily Toernquistiidae\n\nFamily Phillipsiidae\nFamily Proetidae \nFamily Tropidocoryphidae\n"}
{"id": "1816403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816403", "title": "Buck Baker", "text": "Buck Baker\n\nElzie Wylie Baker Sr. (March 4, 1919 – April 14, 2002), better known as Buck Baker, was an American stock car racer. Born in Richburg, South Carolina, Baker began his NASCAR career in 1949 and won his first race three years later at Columbia Speedway. Twenty-seven years later, Baker retired after the 1976 National 500.\n\nDuring his NASCAR Cup Series career, Baker won two championships, 46 races and 45 pole positions, as well as recorded 372 top-tens. In 1957, he became the first driver to win two consecutive championships in the series. Between 1957 and 1959 Baker competed in the NASCAR Convertible Division. From 1972 to 1973, he competed in the Grand National East Series, where he recorded five top-tens in twelve races. On May 23, 2012, it was announced that he would be inducted into the 2013 class of the NASCAR Hall of Fame on February 8, 2013.\n\nBaker entered his first race in 1939 in Greenville, South Carolina, He entered his first NASCAR race in 1949 at Charlotte Speedway. Baker went on to become one of the greatest drivers in NASCAR's history; he was the first back-to-back winner of the Grand National Championship in 1956 and 1957. He was second twice (1955 and 1958) and finished in the top five on four other occasions.\n\nBaker's 682 NASCAR starts (44 from the pole) ranks him third all-time and his 46 victories rank him 13th. In 1953, 1960 and 1964, Baker won the Southern 500 at Darlington Raceway. In 1963, Baker was given credit for winning a race that he clearly did not win. Wendell Scott won the race. NASCAR later reversed its ruling for the race. Scott did not receive the trophy. In 1967, Baker switched to NASCAR's Grand American division, where he was also very successful.\n\nBaker, along with Roby Combs and Ike Kaiser leased motorsport tracks and promoted races early in the 1950s. The three leased Charlotte Speedway in 1950 and promoted races there, before selling their lease to Bruton Smith. In September of 1951, they leased Air Base Speedway, near Greenville, South Carolina, also to promote races.\n\nAfter his retirement in 1976, Baker opened up the Buck Baker Racing School, where Jeff Gordon drove his first stock car. His son, Buddy, was a 34-year Winston Cup veteran and taught at the school along with Buck's daughter, Susie Baker; his other son, Randy, also competed in Winston Cup and operates SpeedTech Auto Racing Schools.\n\nBaker was inducted into the National Motorsports Press Association's Hall of Fame in 1982, the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1990, and the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 1998. Also in 1998, he was named one of the NASCAR's 50 Greatest Drivers. On May 23, 2012, it was announced that he would be one of five nominees to be inducted into the 2013 class of the NASCAR Hall of Fame on February 8, 2013.\n\nBaker died on the night of April 14, 2002 at Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, North Carolina of natural causes.\n\nHis wife, Susan, is the former president of the Buck Baker Racing School. His son, Buddy Baker also grew to be a renowned NASCAR driver, winning the 1980 Daytona 500 in what is still the record speed for the 500 at 177.602 mph (285.809 km/h). Buddy would eventually become a TV broadcaster following his retirement from racing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816406", "title": "Torridge and West Devon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Torridge and West Devon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTorridge and West Devon is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Geoffrey Cox, a Conservative.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Torridge, and the Borough of West Devon.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Torridge, and the Borough of West Devon except the ward of Buckland Monachorum.\n\n2010–present: The District of Torridge, and the Borough of West Devon wards of Bere Ferrers, Bridestowe, Buckland Monachorum, Burrator, Lydford, Mary Tavy, Milton Ford, Tamarside, Tavistock North, Tavistock South, Tavistock South West, Thrushel, and Walkham.\n\nBefore the 2010 general election, the constituency comprised Torridge District and almost all of West Devon District. However, in the redistribution of that year, when the number of seats in the county rose from 11 to 12, the town of Okehampton and scattered small settlements surrounding it transferred to the new Central Devon seat.\n\nThe constituency area contains the former borough constituencies of Bere Alston (abolished 1832, settlement part of Bere Ferrers) and Tavistock (abolished 1885).\n\nThe constituency was created in 1983, largely from the abolished West Devon seat, but with additions then and later from North Devon which was formed in 1950.\n\nThe seat unusually saw its second member, who attained the second absolute majority in its history, a Conservative, defect or \"cross the floor\" in 1995 to the Liberal Democrats (Emma Nicholson) — she was appointed after the subsequent election to the Lords.\n\nThe seat was then won by that party's candidate for the next Parliament John Burnett (LD). He also was elevated to a peerage, and in losing incumbency, the seat yielded to Geoffrey Cox who attained a majority of 3,236 votes in 2005. In 2010 he won with a majority of 2,957, boundary changes making the reduced majority notionally a 0.2% swing from the Liberal Democrats - compared with a 2.3% swing between the two parties nationally.\n\nIn 2015 the Liberal Democrat vote collapsed and they came third behind UKIP and the Conservatives. Geoffrey Cox was elected with an absolute majority.\n\nIn 2017 the absence of UKIP saw Labour come second behind the Conservatives. Geoffrey Cox further increased the size of his absolute majority, which became the largest in Devon and Cornwall.\n\nIn 2019, Geoffrey Cox was re-elected with 60.1% of the vote and a majority of 24,992 (41.8%), the highest vote share ever recorded in the seat and, once again, the largest majority in Devon and Cornwall.\n\nThe economy of the area is dominated by sectors such as agriculture, food processing, defence, hospitality, construction, maintenance and engineering and from Bideford and Northam a small amount of fishing; it also includes tourism, such as the island of Lundy, and sandy resort of Westward Ho!, to the small, centrally pedestrianised, cobbled, museum-dotted village of Clovelly. Great Torrington and Buckland Monachorum are among the archetypal rural villages, in an area with tranquil retreats, relatively close to the edge of Dartmoor.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.5% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816416", "title": "Planet of Fire", "text": "Planet of Fire\n\nPlanet of Fire is the fifth serial of the 21st season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four twice-weekly parts on BBC1 from 23 February to 2 March 1984.\n\nIn the serial, the Doctor's old enemy, the renegade Time Lord the Master (Anthony Ainley), plots to use the volcanic gases on the planet Sarn to renew his body after accidentally shrinking himself in an experiment.\n\nPeter Davison's penultimate serial as the Doctor, it marks the departure of Mark Strickson as Vislor Turlough (who makes a brief reappearance in a dream sequence at the end of Davison's final story) and introduces Nicola Bryant as Peri Brown. It is also the second and final appearance of the shapeshifting robot Kamelion, who is played at various points throughout the serial by Gerald Flood, Dallas Adams, and Ainley.\n\nOn the desert world of Sarn, robed natives worship the fire god Logar and follow the Chief Elder, Timanov, who demands obedience. Dissenters are known as Unbelievers and two of them, Amyand and Roskal, cause unrest when they claim to have ventured to the top of the sacred fire mountain but not found Logar. One of the Sarns, Malkon, is known as the Chosen One because of the unusual double triangle symbol burnt into his skin: he is also unusual for having been found as a baby on the slopes of the sacred fire mountain.\n\nThe same triangle symbol is found on a metal artefact uncovered in an archaeological dig in Lanzarote overseen by Professor Howard Foster. His stepdaughter Peri Brown is bored with the dig and wants to go travelling in Morocco and when he seeks to prevent this she steals the strange artefact and tries to swim for freedom. Fortunately for her the TARDIS has landed nearby—responding to a distress call sent by the strange artefact—and Turlough sees her drowning and rescues her. Going through her possessions as she recovers he finds the artefact and acknowledges the same triangle symbol is burnt into his own flesh. The Fifth Doctor returns to the TARDIS after attempting to triangulate the source of the signal being emitted by the artefact, and the ship dematerialises, seemingly on its own. It soon arrives on Sarn and the Doctor and Turlough set off to explore.\n\nThe android Kamelion has meanwhile made mental contact with its old controller, the Master, who attempts to assert his control and change Kamelion's appearance from that of Howard. Kamelion tries to warn Peri of the Master but the Master succeeds in gaining control. She flees the TARDIS with the creature in pursuit as the rumblings of the volcanoes of Sarn gather ferocity.\n\nIn the Sarn colony Timanov has damned the Unbelievers to be sacrificed to appease Logar and stop the tremors. They flee to a secret base in the mountains filled with seismological apparatus, which the Doctor and Turlough stumble across. The Doctor informs the Unbelievers that the tunnels, which have been their refuge, are volcanic vents which will soon fill with molten lava. It is also established that Turlough is of the same race as those who colonised the planet, and when the indigenous people see his Misos Triangle, they greet him as a second Chosen One. Turlough realises Malkon may be his brother and becomes even more worried when Peri turns up and mentions the Master.\n\nAnother important figure in Sarn mythology is the Outsider, a promised prophet, and Kamelion, controlled by the Master, fulfils this role admirably. He convinces Timanov of the appropriateness of harsh action and when the Doctor arrives with the Unbelievers they are all seized for burning. However, Malkon and Peri arrive shortly afterwards and stop this, though not before Malkon has been injured. Turlough is aghast when he finds his relative has been shot and the Doctor presses him for as much information as he has on the strange circumstances of Sarn. It seems it is a long abandoned Trion colony planet, and that Turlough, a Trion, suspects some of his family were sent here after a revolution against the hereditary leading clans of his homeworld. He supposes his father died in a crash but that Malkon survived, while he himself was sent in exile to Earth, overseen by a Trion agent masquerading as a solicitor in Chancery Lane.\n\nKamelion has meanwhile seized Peri and uses her to transport a black box into the control room of his TARDIS. It contains a miniaturised Master—the real thing—who has been transformed by a disastrous experiment with his trademark Tissue Compression Eliminator (TCE) weapon. The Master thus re-established the psychic link with Kamelion to gain the power of movement and has manoeuvred the robot to Sarn so that he can take advantage of the restorative powers of the numismaton gas within the fire mountain.\n\nTurlough realises the imminent volcanic bursts will destroy the Sarn colony, so he uses a functioning communication unit to get in touch with Trion and plead for a rescue ship to evacuate the planet. In so doing, he abandons his own freedom. Acting on a message from the Doctor, Turlough programs the TARDIS to rescue the Doctor and Peri from the gas control room, forgoing a chance to stay aboard and escape from the military arriving from his homeworld. He finds out that a general amnesty has been issued and he is free to return home. Only the elders choose to remain on the planet to die, facing the erupting volcanoes, Timanov retaining his faith even in the face of Amyand's revelation that Logar was merely a man in a fireproof suit: \"Another deception!\"\n\nThe Doctor, meanwhile, succeeds in weakening the Master's hold over Kamelion and interrupts the numismaton experiment. He adds calorific gas to the surge but is unable to prevent the Master from reacquiring his usual size and becoming—he taunts—\"a thousand times stronger\". As the gas flow alters, the Master is trapped and the Doctor does not intervene despite his oldest enemy's threats and then pleading, watching as he is seemingly immolated. Implored by the terminally wounded Kamelion, the Doctor has put the automaton out of its misery using the TCE. Escaping the destruction of the gas control room in the TARDIS along with Peri, the Doctor lands to pick up Turlough, only to find that he has elected to return to Trion now that he is a free man. Turlough tells Peri to look after the Doctor. He then parts from the Doctor, thanking him for all that he has learned in his travels with him. As the Doctor and Peri return to the TARDIS, she says she has a few months' vacation left and would like to spend it travelling with him. The Doctor accepts and they depart.\n\nIt was decided that because of the climate of Lanzarote, where the serial was filmed, the cast would have to alter their usual costumes. Although Peter Davison started the story wearing his cricketer outfit, for the rest of the story, he wore a different pair of trousers with question mark braces and a beige floral waistcoat. Strickson shed his usual school uniform in favour of a blue pin-stripe shirt and tan shorts with a pair of swim briefs underneath. Nicola Bryant also wore a pink bikini beneath her clothes to which she stripped down for a couple of scenes.\n\nMark Strickson has also reprised the role of Turlough in the audio plays by Big Finish Productions and penned the introduction to the spin-off novel \"Turlough and the Earthlink Dilemma\" (1986). Promotional photographs taken during production include a shot of Peter Davison wearing a tuxedo and holding a gun, with Nicola Bryant standing next to him in a bikini, in the style of James Bond. Eleanor Bron was originally considered for the role of Sorasta.\n\nThis serial was originally intended as the swan song for Anthony Ainley as the Master since his contract with the show had come to an end, hence the \"death\" of the character in the numismaton flames at the story's climax. As a deliberate tease for the audience, the Master's truncated final line is \"Won't you even show mercy to your own...\", with him apparently being killed by the gas just as he is about to reveal the true nature of his relationship to the Doctor. However, the Master reappeared in the following season's \"The Mark of the Rani\" without explanation as to how he survived the flames. Script Editor Eric Saward cut from \"The Mark of the Rani\" the explanation for the Master's survival provided by writers Pip and Jane Baker but the explanation is in their novelisation of the serial.\n\nWriting for \"Radio Times\", Patrick Mulkern gave the serial three stars out of five and observed that writer Peter Grimwade \"laces his script with homosexual subtext\", noting in particular the \"male eye candy on display\", arguing that \"old sage Timanov’s mentoring of callow youth Malkon has a hint of pederasty\" and also commenting on the \"unmistakably phallic object\" hauled from the seabed and fondled by Howard, Curt and Peri. Paul Cornell, Martin Day and Keith Topping, authors of \"The Discontinuity Guide\", thought that new companion Peri made a good impression, helped by some decent lines. They said \"As a whole the story is less than the sum of its parts: not a great deal happens, but it is competently written, and the location filming is excellent.\"\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Peter Grimwade, was published by Target Books in October 1984. A prologue juxtaposing the crash of the vessel Professor Foster is salvaging with the crash of the Trion ship carrying Turlough's family to Sarn opens the novelisation. The Master's teasing last line \"Won't you save your own...\" is removed.\n\n\"Planet of Fire\" was released on VHS in September 1998. The DVD was released in June 2010, with commentary by Peter Davison, Nicola Bryant, Mark Strickson and Fiona Cumming, as part of the box set \"Kamelion Tales\" along with \"The King's Demons\". It also contained a Special Edition edit of the story overseen by director Fiona Cumming. The special edition edit also included a specially filmed prequel before the opening titles. At a mere 66 minutes it is the shortest and the most edited of the special editions.\nThis serial was also released as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files in Issue 116 on 12 June 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816425", "title": "Gee Bee Air Rally", "text": "Gee Bee Air Rally\n\nGee Bee Air Rally is a 1987 flight simulator by Activision. It was developed for Amiga, Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum. It is set in the 1920s and early 1930s in which the player is the pilot of a small airplane. The player's goal is to increase the score by flying the airplane through several races and special events. The player's aircraft is modelled on the Granville Brothers Gee Bee Super Sportster Model Z, a \"flying engine\" which was the predecessor of the more famous, and even more extreme, Model R.\n\nThis game is single-player only and has three difficulty levels, which the player must choose between before beginning play. The player's airplane is always yellow, and the races follow a pattern of three main events and one special event, which alternates between popping 30 balloons and flying to the right of red s and to the left of blue ones.\n\nOne main obstacle is avoiding collision with other aircraft. After two collisions, the plane will falter and the player's pilot is parachuted out. The player hears the sound of a parachute opening and sees an animation sequence of the pilot drifting to the ground. This is followed by one of several amusing pictures depicting the pilot in various landing places, such as a pigpen, a parched desert, a tree, or a barnyard of chickens, for example.\n\nFollowing successful completion of the special event, a picture of the pilot at an awards ceremony is shown, accompanied by period music. A photographer may be seen photographing the pilot.\n\n\"Compute!\" criticized the game's copy protection and repetitive cut scenes but praised the graphics and audio, concluding that \"\"Gee Bee Air Rally\" is worthy of repeated play\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816427", "title": "Verbt", "text": "Verbt\n\nVerbt () is a weather and storm god in Albanian mythology and folklore, who causes hailstorms and controls fire, water, and the northern wind which fans the flames of fire. Also known as \"Shën Verbti\" or \"Rmoria\", he was worshiped in northern Albania until recent times. In Albanian mythology, Verbti is the counterpart of another weather god, Shurdh. As weather gods, they both could be related to Zojz and Perëndi, while as a fire god, Verbti could be related to Enji. Some of his attributes are similar to those of the mythological figures of drangue, Stihi and Ljubi.\n\nThe name \"Verbti\" appears to be connected with the Albanian term \"i verbër\" meaning \"the blind one\", however this link seems to be only a coincidence, since according to folk beliefs he can actually see very well. The name \"Verbt\" must be related to \"vorbull/vorbëtinë\", \"whirlpool, -wind, vortex, swirl\", probably derived from Proto-Albanian \"*uērb-\", from Proto-Indo-European \"*uer-b-\", \"to revolve, twist, turn (down)\".\n\nAccording to folk beliefs, Verbti resides in the clouds, causes hailstorms and controls fire, water and the northern wind which fans the flames of fire. He can be greeted and turned away with noise and gunshots. Verbti is depicted as a deity who hates uncleanliness and bad ways of speaking and he will punish anyone who speaks badly of him. With the coming of Christianity in Albania, Verbti was demonized and it was spread about that anyone who invoked him would go blind.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816429", "title": "Welwyn Hatfield (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Welwyn Hatfield (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWelwyn Hatfield is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Grant Shapps, a Conservative who is currently the Secretary of State for Transport.\n\nThe seat was created for the February 1974 general election following the second periodic review of Westminster constituencies, initially as the County Constituency of Welwyn and Hatfield. It was formed from parts of the abolished constituency of Hertford. For the 1983 general election, the constituency was renamed in line with the recently created District of Welwyn Hatfield.\n\nDespite its short history, the seat has seen two parties serve it, with two Labour periods of representation, during the longer part of the Labour Government 1974-1979 and during the first two terms of the Blair ministry. Other than this the seat has elected a Conservative as its MP.\n\nThe 2015 majority more than tripled on the second election of Grant Shapps, in 2010, from a historically breakable (in the constituency) majority of 5,946 votes to the 26th largest Conservative share of the vote, which on standard uniform swing seen in elections since 1931 represented a safe seat, but a 5% swing to Labour in 2017 means the seat is somewhat marginal again, needing a 7.1% swing to become Labour.\n\nThe first MP ended his term in the Commons as the member for Welwyn Hatfield before which he was Defence Minister from 1970 to 1972 then a Foreign Office Minister until February 1974 - later that year Lord Balniel was awarded a life peerage, accelerating and safeguarding his right to sit in the Lords. The second MP later became the politically neutral Lord Speaker, Baroness Hayman.\n\nDuring five years of the Blair ministry, the constituency's MP Melanie Johnson was a frontbench minister, serving as Economic Secretary to the Treasury, Minister for Competition and Consumers and the Minister for Public Health.\nGrant Shapps, her successor, was appointed the Minister of State for Housing and Local Government for the first two years of the UK coalition government 2010 before being appointed to chair his party. Following the Conservative victory in 2015, he was appointed Minister of State at the Department for International Development.\n\nThe area has a higher than average proportion of managers, professionals and retired people than much of Greater London. The seat has a strong local economy, with extensive retail and industrial/commercial premises, particularly in Welwyn Garden City and Hatfield. Two of the four largest Hertfordshire economic towns, Stevenage and St Albans are also close by. Accordingly, workless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.4% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n1974–1983: The Urban District of Welwyn Garden City, and the Rural Districts of Hatfield and Welwyn.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Welwyn Hatfield wards of Brookmans Park and Little Heath, Haldens, Handside, Hatfield Central, Hatfield East, Hatfield North, Hatfield South, Hollybush, Howlands, Peartree, Sherrards, Welham Green and Redhall, Welwyn East, and Welwyn West, and the City of St Albans ward of Wheathampstead.\n\nWheathampstead was transferred from St Albans.  The Welwyn Hatfield ward of Northaw was included in the new Borough Constituency of Broxbourne.\n\n1997–present: As above minus Wheathampstead ward, which was transferred to the new County Constituency of Hitchin and Harpenden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816430", "title": "British Columbia gold rushes", "text": "British Columbia gold rushes\n\nBritish Columbia gold rushes were important episodes in the history and settlement of European, Canadian and Chinese peoples in western Canada.\n\nThe presence of gold in what is now British Columbia is spoken of in many old legends that, in part, led to its discovery. The Strait of Anian, claimed to have been sailed by Juan de Fuca for whom today's Strait of Juan de Fuca is named, was described as passing through a land (Anian) \"rich in gold, silver, pearls and fur\". Bergi (meaning \"mountains\"), another legendary land near Anian, was also said to be rich in gold as well. Speculative maps of northwestern North America published before the area was mapped placed the legendary golden cities of Quivira and Cibola in the far inland northwest. No Spanish exploration parties in search of El Dorado, \"the golden one\" a reference to the legendary king of a lost golden city, are known to have ever reached British Columbia, although archaeological remains point to a brief Spanish presence in the Okanagan and Similkameen regions of the province's Southern Interior. The Muchalaht, the Nuu-chah-nulth group in the area of the community of Gold River, on Vancouver Island, which is a community at the end of a fjord that drains the west coast of Vancouver Island, tell a story of Spanish arriving then burning the valley searching for gold. Prospectors searching the valley have found old crude dug adits on the pass of the White River Valley and the Gold River Valley.\n\nGold was first formally discovered by non-indigenous people at Gold Harbour on the west coast of Moresby Island in the Queen Charlotte Islands, near the Haida village of Tasu on Mitchell Inlet, an arm of Gold Harbour (which is part of Tasu Sound). A brief gold rush - the Queen Charlottes Gold Rush - ensued in the following year, leading to the declaration of the Colony of the Queen Charlotte Islands to prevent the archipelago from being overrun by Americans and so claimed by the United States. The extent of the ore body proved superficial, and there are various stories of American prospecting parties harassed by the Haida people, who were still very numerous and powerful. In later times, Gold Harbour and Mitchell Inlet became the location of a modern mining operation, also called Tasoo or Tasu, but for iron rather than gold. In 1969, a local logger, Efrem Specogna and his brother-in-law, John Trinco made the initial gold discovery of the Specogna (Babe) Gold deposit west of Port Clements on Graham Island. By 1979, a 2 million ounce gold deposit was defined by exploratory drilling by major mining companies, Cominco, Kennco Explorations (a subsidiary of Kennecott) and Quintana Minerals. A junior exploration company continued drilling the project and a gold rush ensued from 1979-1981. The Specogna gold deposit remains an unmined deposit with over 3 million ounces of gold and is categorized as an epithermal type gold deposit.\n\nGold discoveries are not reported in the journals of the early fur traders, and it became policy on the part of the fur companies to not advertise the presence of gold as the protection of the fur trade was the main corporate interest of their enterprise. Governor Etolin of Russian America expressly forbade news of gold discoveries as a serious crime against the state. Small quantities of gold were reported by traders in the 1830s and at some posts became current in local trading, though not common or in quantity. but Hudson's Bay Company policy, or the good judgement of the Chief Trader, kept news of such discoveries quiet until a large trove was brought into Fort Kamloops in 1856 by members of the nearby Tranquille tribe of the Secwepemc. When news of the find and a large poke of gold dust brought to James Douglas, Chief Factor of the Columbia Department at Fort Victoria and also Governor of Vancouver Island, decided to ship it to San Francisco for smelting. Some historians have suggested he did so deliberately to spread news of the gold find so as to provoke a gold rush so as to force Britain's hand on the status of the British mainland north of the 49th parallel, which since the Oregon Treaty had remained unincorporated and had remained solely the domain of the fur company and its native clientele. American miners had been appearing more frequently on British soil and Douglas felt he had to take action.\n\nNews of the finds in what was then known as New Caledonia hit California at a time of economic depression, when the gold fields were depopulated and many miners were in San Francisco, where the news hit like wildfire and overloaded steamers full of men equipped with not much more than gold pans and the clothes on their back headed north, along with entrepreneurs of all kinds and others seeking to profit not from the mines, but from the miners. Victoria, until then a \"sleepy English village\" of a few hundred people, was transformed into a tent city of some 30,000 within weeks in the spring of 1858, among them 4000 were Chinese. After initial complaints of a \"humbug\", because high water levels prevented mining, thousands returned to California, only to be replaced by others as water levels dropped and mining began in earnest. The first major find, and among the largest on the river, was at Hill's Bar about 15 kilometers south of Fort Yale, which had become the epicenter of the gold rush as it was at the head of river navigation and at the foot of the Fraser Canyon and its difficult trails and rich gold-bearing bars. Hill's Bar's first claim, known as the \"Boatmen of San Francisco\", worked the bar alongside Chief Kowpelst and his people, the Spuzzum tribe of the Nlaka'pamux, whose village was just north of Fort Yale. The mining population, split into thirds about evenly between Americans, Chinese, and a mix of Britons and Europeans who had been in California, many since the California Gold Rush ten years earlier, entered into conflict when two French miners violated a Nlaka'pamux girl near Litton, then called \"the Forks\", and their beheaded bodies were seen floating down the river. In the ensuing unrest, known as the Fraser Canyon War, most of the mining population fled the Canyon for Spuzzum and Yale, and war parties composed of Americans, Germans, French and others (many who had been mercenaries in Nicaragua, or in service of France in Mexico), forayed up the canyon and made a peace with the Nlaka'pamux, though many were killed on both sides. News of the war had reached Victoria in the meantime and Governor Douglas was forced to take action to enforce British authority and sovereignty on the mainland and set out by steamer with Royal Marines and the newly arrived first contingent of Royal Engineers for the gold fields. En route, the party stopped at Fort Langley, then still located at Derby, where Douglas declared the Colony of British Columbia and was sworn in as its first Governor, on August 1, 1858. Proceeding without much incident to Yale, where news of the governor's journey upriver had travelled in advance, the Governor and his troops were greeted by the war parties or \"Companies\" that had engaged in the war, flying the British flag and greeting the Governor with a formal welcome. Admonishing them that the colony had been established and the Queen's Law would prevail, the governor appointed officials who would later lead to a series of events known as McGowan's War over the course of the next winter. Also while at Yale, Douglas decreed the creation of subscriptions by which parties of men could pay for the right to construct a new route to the \"Upper Fraser\" via the Lakes Route, as a way around the dangers of the canyon trail and continued fears about the Nlaka'pamux. the \"Upper Fraser\" was the area of Lillooet and Fountain and several thousand miners had arrived in that region via overland routes through Oregon and Washington Territory, despite an injunction from Douglas that all access to the goldfields would be through Victoria only. Those who came by those routes, the busiest but war-ridden Okanagan Trail, also spread farther afield in the Interior, leading to gold discoveries further and further afield and a string of small and large gold rushes including what would become the largest and most famous, the Cariboo Gold Rush. Not for nothing that among the most common sobriquet used at the time for the new Mainland Colony was \"the Gold Colonies\".\n\nBy 1860, there were gold discoveries in the middle basin of the Quesnel River around Keithley Creek and Quesnel Forks, just below and west of Quesnel Lake. Exploration of the region intensified as news of the discoveries got out, and because of the distances and times involved in communications and travel in those times, moreover because of the remoteness of the country, the Cariboo Rush did not begin in earnest until 1862 after the discovery of Williams Creek in 1861 and the relocation of the focus of the rush to the creek valleys in the northern Cariboo Plateau forming the headwaters of the Willow River and the north slope of the basin of the Quesnel. The rush, though initially discovered by American-based parties, became notably Canadian, Maritimer and British in character, with those who became established in the Cariboo among the vanguard of the movement to join Canada as the 1860s progressed. Many Americans returned to the United States at the opening of the Civil War. Others went on to the Fort Colvile Gold Rush, Idaho Gold Rush, and Colorado Gold Rush. Some went elsewhere in the Intermontane West, including other parts of British Columbia, in addition to those who had come and gone during the advent and wane of the Cariboo rush. To preserve British authority and retain control over the traffic of gold out of the region, the Governor commissioned the building of the Cariboo Road, a.k.a. the Queen's Highway, and a route from Lillooet and also established the Gold Escort, although that government agency never proved viable and private expressmen dominated the shipment of goods and mail into the gold fields, and gold out of it (see Francis Jones Barnard and B.X. Express). Among other events associated with the Cariboo Gold Rush was the Chilcotin War of 1864, provoked by an attempt to build a wagon road from Bute Inlet to Cariboo via the Homathko River. In addition to the gold rush's capital and destination of the Cariboo Road Barkerville, dozens of small towns and mining camps sprang up across the rainy, swampy hills of the Cariboo, some such as Bullion and Antler Creek attaining mining fame in their own right. The Cariboo gold fields have remained active to this day, and have also yielded other boomtowns, such as Wells, a one-time company town of 3,000 in the 1920s just a few kilometres west of Barkerville, which today is a museum town, and one of the larger deep-rock mines in the Cariboo mining district. The city of Quesnel, remained important after the wane of the rush as the jumping-off point for other goldfields discovered yet farther and farther north in the Omineca and Peace River Country to the north of Fort George (today's city of Prince George), then only a small fur post and Indian reserve.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816440", "title": "Incitement", "text": "Incitement\n\nIn criminal law, incitement is the encouragement of another person to commit a crime. Depending on the jurisdiction, some or all types of incitement may be illegal. Where illegal, it is known as an inchoate offense, where harm is intended but may or may not have actually occurred.\n\n\nIncitement was an offence under the common law of England and Wales. It was an inchoate offence. It consisted of persuading, encouraging, instigating, pressuring, or threatening so as to cause another to commit a crime.\n\nIt was abolished in England and Wales on 1 October 2008 when Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 came into force, replacing it with three new statutory offences of encouraging or assisting crime. The common law is now only relevant to offences committed before that date.\n\nThe rationale of incitement matches the general justification underpinning the other inchoate offences of conspiracy and attempt by allowing the police to intervene before a criminal act is completed and the harm or injury is actually caused. There is considerable overlap, particularly where two or more individuals are involved in criminal activity. The plan to commit crime may exist only in the mind of one person until others are incited to join in, at which point the social danger becomes more real. The offence overlaps the offences of counselling or procuring as an accessory. Indeed, in the early case of \"R v Higgins\" incitement was defined as being committed when one person counsels, procures or commands another to commit a crime, whether or not that person commits the crime. The words, \"counsel\" and \"procure\" were later adopted in section 8 of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 as two of the four forms of accessory. In \"AG’s Reference (No. 1 of 1975)\", Widgery CJ said:\n\nThe inciter must intend the others to engage in the behaviour constituting the offence, including any consequences which may result, and must know or believe (or possibly suspect) that those others will have the relevant \"mens rea\". In \"R v Curr\", the defendant allegedly incited women to commit offences under the Family Allowances Act 1945 but, because the prosecution did not prove that the women had the \"mens rea\" to constitute the offence, the conviction was quashed. Fenton Atkinson J explained that:\n\nIn \"R v Whitehouse\", a father was charged with inciting his fifteen-year-old daughter to have sexual intercourse with him. At this age, she would have been excused from liability for committing the offence of incest with her father. The conviction was quashed on appeal and Scarman LJ explained that:\n\nHe continued:\n\nThe Court of Appeal in \"R v Claydon\" (2005) EWCA Crim 2817 has repeated this criticism. Claydon had sexually abused the thirteen-year-old son of his partner in the 1980s, and was tried twenty years later on an indictment containing counts of sexual offences, including two counts of incitement to commit buggery. At that time, there was an irrebuttable presumption that a boy under the age of fourteen years was incapable of sexual intercourse (applying \"R v Waite\" (1892) 2 QBD 600–601 and \"R v Williams\" [1893] 1 QB 320–321). It was argued by the Crown that, although the boy could not in law have committed the act incited, it was nevertheless quite possible for the defendant to incite him. Having considered \"R v Whitehouse\" and \"R v Pickford\", the Court of Appeal felt obliged to reject that argument. As Laws J said in \"Pickford\", \"it is a necessary element of the element of incitement that the person incited must be capable [by which he meant capable as a matter of law] of committing the primary crime.\" The Court agreed because the focus of the offence of inciting is solely on the acts and intention of the inciter while the intention of the person incited are not relevant when considering whether the offence of incitement has been committed. It further endorsed the views of Smith and Hogan (10th Edition at p 295) who criticised the decision in \"Curr\" on the basis that \"...the real question should not have been not whether the women actually had the knowledge, but whether D believed they had.\" Furthermore, Smith (1994) said that \"the court has confused the \"mens rea\" of incitement with the \"mens rea\" of the offence incited\".\n\nThe inciter is one who reaches out and seeks to influence the mind of another to commit a crime, although where, for example, a letter conveying the incitement is intercepted, there is only an attempt to incite (see \"R v Banks\" (1873) 12 Cox CC 393). So merely making suggestions is not\nenough. There must be actual communication so that the other person has the opportunity to agree, but the \"actus reus\" is complete whether or not the incitement actually persuades another to commit an offence. In \"R v Goldman\" [2001] Crim LR 822 the defendant wrote to a Dutch firm (ESV) which had advertised pornography for sale, requesting pornographic material. He was convicted of an attempt to incite another (ESV) to distribute indecent photographs because the offer to buy amounted to an inducement to ESV to commit a crime.\n\nIn \"R v Fitzmaurice\", it was held that the necessary element of persuasion was satisfied by a \"suggestion, proposal or request [that] was accompanied by an implied promise of reward\". In \"Race Relations Board v Applin\", Lord Denning stated that a person may incite another to do an act by threatening or by pressure, as well as by persuasion. The incitement can take any form (words or deeds). It may be addressed to a particular person or group or to the public at large. In \"R v Marlow\" [1997] Crim LR 897 the defendant wrote and published a book on the cultivation of cannabis, which he advertised, selling about 500 copies. It was alleged that the book was not a \"bona fide\" textbook, but was an incitement to those who bought it to cultivate cannabis. The defence claimed the book as a genuine contribution to the debate on the legalisation of cannabis and said that it only contained general advice which was freely available elsewhere. The judge directed the jury that they had to be sure that the book could \"encourage or persuade or is capable of encouraging or persuading other people to produce the drug\". The Court of Appeal held that there was no misdirection and the conviction was not unsafe.\n\nThus, the incitement may be implied as well as express and may be directed to persons generally. The test is whether there is a lawful use for the device. For example, a recording or transcribing device may be used lawfully without breaching copyright, but a device to detect radar signals so as to avoid speed camera/red light infringement systems would have no other purpose than assisting drivers to evade detection. But note that the act incited must be a crime by the person incited so any alleged breach of copyright would have to be criminal, and the defendant would have to know all the material facts that would make the incited person's behaviour criminal, but not that the behaviour was a crime (see the public policy \"ignorantia juris non-excusat\" which prevents ignorance of the law from being an excuse). In \"R v Whitehouse\" an uncle did not incite his 15-year-old niece to incest because, if the incitement had succeeded and she had submitted to intercourse, she would not have committed an offence. This applied \"R v Tyrell\" which stated that where a statutory offence is designed to protect a particular class of individuals against themselves, they cannot, as the victims, commit such offences against themselves. In \"Tyrell\", the girl was not guilty of inciting the man to have under-age sex with her, since the girl could not herself be guilty of the full offence.\n\nIf X incites Y to kill Z but, unknown to both of them at the time, Z had already died, it would be impossible to kill Z and so no crime of incitement would have been committed. Apart from simple situations such as this, the current law is difficult. \"R v Fitzmaurice\" allows the impossibility defence, but its scope is quite limited. X planned to collect a reward from a security firm by informing the police of the existence of a conspiracy to rob a security van. He recruited the defendant who thought he was engaging men for this robbery. Subsequently, the conspirators were arrested by the police. The Court of Appeal held that the test was to decide what sort of conduct was incited, attempted or the subject of a conspiracy. If the evidence shows incitement in general terms, e.g. to rob a security van, this is always possible, whereas if the subsequent agreement relates to a specific but fictitious crime, there might be an acquittal. In \"DPP v Armstrong\" [2000] Crim LR 379, 1999 EWHC 270 (QB) it was held that impossibility of the commission of the offence incited was irrelevant to guilt.\n\nThere are, in England and Wales, a number of statutory offences of incitement, e.g. incitement to racial hatred under the Public Order Act 1986.\n\nSoliciting to murder\n\nThe offense of soliciting to murder is created by section 4 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861.\n\nInciting to commit perjury\n\nThis offense is created by section 7(2) of the Perjury Act 1911.\n\nInciting another to commit an offense against the Official Secrets Acts 1911 and 1920\n\nThis offense is created by section 7 of the Official Secrets Act 1920.\n\nInciting a child under 14 to gross indecency\n\nThe Indecency with Children Act 1960 provided that it was an offense, amongst other things, to incite a child under the age of fourteen to an act of gross indecency with the inciter or another.\n\nInciting a girl under 16 to commit incest\n\nThis offense was created by section 54 of the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nIn New Zealand, every one who incites any person to commit an offence is a party to and guilty of the offence and liable for the same penalty as a person who commits the offence.\n\nWhen a person incites another to commit an offence that is not in fact committed the person is liable for the same penalty as a person who attempts to commit an offence that is not in fact committed. The penalty for inciting the commission of an offence that is not in fact committed is 10 years imprisonment if the maximum penalty for the offence is imprisonment for life and in other cases up to half the maximum penalty of the primary offence.\n\nThe First Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees free speech, and the degree to which incitement is protected speech is determined by the imminent lawless action test introduced by the 1969 Supreme Court decision in the case \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\". The court ruled that incitement of events in the indefinite future was protected, but encouragement of \"imminent\" illegal acts was \"not\" protected. This \"view reflects longstanding law and is shared by the Federalist Society, the ACLU, the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, and the vast majority of Americans, including most staunch free-speech advocates.\"\n\nIncitement to riot is illegal under U.S. federal law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816448", "title": "Shipley (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Shipley (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nShipley is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Philip Davies, a Conservative.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Bradford, and the civil parishes of Clayton, Eccleshill, Idle, North Bierley, and Shipley.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban Districts of Baildon, Bingley, Guiseley, Shipley, and Yeadon, and in the Rural District of Wharfedale the civil parishes of Esholt, Hawksworth, and Menston.\n\n1950–1983: The Urban Districts of Baildon, Bingley, and Shipley.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Bradford wards of Baildon, Bingley, Bingley Rural, Rombalds, Shipley East, and Shipley West.\n\n2010–present: The District of Bradford wards of Baildon, Bingley, Bingley Rural, Shipley, Wharfedale, and Windhill and Wrose.\n\nThis seat was created in the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. Until 1923 the seat was almost exclusively represented by elected Liberals and Arthur Creech Jones was Secretary of State for the Colonies (1946–1950) during most of the Attlee Ministry.\n\nShipley was for a long time the seat of ex-Chairman of the Conservative 1922 Committee, Sir Marcus Fox. He held the seat for almost 30 years between the 1970 and 1997 general elections.\n\nAt the 1997 general election, the Labour candidate Chris Leslie gained the seat from Fox, becoming the youngest MP of that parliament. He held the seat at the 2001 election and became a junior minister. A number of traditional Labour supporters considered Leslie to be an ardent Blairite, though he was in fact equally close to Gordon Brown, one of whose staff he married, and whose campaign for election as Labour leader he helped run (after he had lost this seat).\n\nLeslie narrowly lost the seat in the 2005 election, when the Conservative Party candidate Philip Davies narrowly regained the seat with a majority of 422 votes, which then increased to nearly ten thousand votes at the May 2010 general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816449", "title": "The Big Story (talk show)", "text": "The Big Story (talk show)\n\nThe Big Story is an American news/talk television program that premiered in 2000 on the Fox News Channel, hosted by John Gibson weekdays. In 2007 Heather Nauert joined him as co-host. The series was put on hiatus in March 2008, replaced with \"America's Election Headquarters\", an hour of news related to the 2008 United States presidential election. Subsequently, Fox News lured Glenn Beck from Headline News in the interim between \"The Big Story\" being put on hiatus and the election, which resulted in \"The Big Story\" being cancelled; the \"Big Story\" timeslot was taken by his Beck's self-titled program on January 19, 2009.\n\nOne of the channel's afternoon shows, the program featured coverage of news stories of the day under general banners (ex. \"Big Money\", \"Big Security\") introduced after commercial breaks. The program also featured debate and analysis by pundits and panelists.\n\nA weekend edition of the program, The Big Story Weekend, aired Saturdays and Sundays. Hosted initially by Rita Cosby, then by Jamie Colby and later by Julie Banderas, the weekend edition featured a segment called \"Your Word Live\" where viewers could call in and give comments on a topic discussed on the show. Later in the show's run, the call-in segment was replaced with e-mail. The last weekend edition aired on October 14, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816458", "title": "Underworld (Doctor Who)", "text": "Underworld (Doctor Who)\n\nUnderworld is the fifth serial of the 15th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 7–28 January 1978.\n\nIn the serial, the crew of an alien Minyan spaceship go on a hundred-thousand-year quest in search of a ship containing a genetic bank that would restore the Minyans' species.\n\nIn the history of the Time Lords, their involvement with the Minyans of Minyos is regarded as a disaster. The Minyans looked on them as gods but, having learnt much from their science, later expelled the Time Lords, who thereafter adopted a policy of non-intervention. The Minyans resented the Time Lords for their dominion over Minyos. Subsequently, the Minyans engaged in a civil war, using the advanced weapons the Time Lords gave them. In the final conflict, the Minyans destroyed their world. Two ships left Minyos before the final conflict, one carrying the race bank of the Minyans, the other intended to find the race bank and bring the Minyans to a new homeworld - Minyos II. The Minyan civilisation retained some Time Lord gifts, including cellular rejuvenation and the use of pacifier guns to alter the mental state of the aggressor.\n\nAt the edge of the expanding universe, the TARDIS materialises on a Minyan ship, the R1C. The Fourth Doctor, Leela and K9 visit the bridge of the spaceship. The crew of four – Jackson, Herrick, Orfe and Tala – are on a quest (“The Quest is the Quest”) that has taken many millennia and they have rejuvenated many times. Their aim is to find the missing ship the P7E, which disappeared en route to Minyos II while carrying the genetic race banks of the entire species. They have, however, finally traced the P7E’s signal and head into a spiral nebula to locate the ship. In the process the R1C is nearly destroyed, and is almost transformed into the core of a planetoid as small space rocks are attracted to it. A similar fate actually seems to have happened to the P7E, which is found at the centre of a small planet. The R1C crashes into this planet.\n\nCivilisation on the P7E planetoid has taken a curious turn. Most of the population live as slaves digging rock for fuel and sustenance, but they are culled and killed in rock collapses called Skyfalls. This situation is overseen by guards who are in turn responsible to two robots called Seers. In overall control is the Oracle, a powerful super-computer which has shaped the perverse society. Evidently the P7E became trapped in the planet millennia earlier and the entire basis of the mission was lost over time. The Doctor and Leela encounter Idas, a young man nearly killed in a Skyfall, learning how the local population is managed and terrorised. The Seers and Oracle exist in a protected Citadel at the heart of the planetoid (clearly the P7E) and the Doctor, Leela and Idas venture there, in the process rescuing Idas’ father Idmon who was due to be sacrificed to the Oracle. Other slaves are freed too, and flee to the R1C where Jackson makes them welcome. However, the crucial race banks remain in the control of the Oracle. The Doctor, Leela, and Idas venture to the Citadel again to get the precious cargo. However, the Seers have meanwhile captured Herrick and give him what he thinks are the two race banks to take back to his ship. Jackson, Orfe and Tala are overjoyed, little realising that their friend has actually brought fission bombs back to the R1C.\n\nThe Doctor has meanwhile made it to the core of the Citadel and confronted the Oracle. He succeeds in locating and stealing the real race banks and then heads off with Leela and Idas to get back to the probe ship. The guards try but fail to defeat their flight. The Doctor gives the real race banks to Jackson, and then takes the fakes out of the craft. Idas takes advantage of the situation to round up the other slaves or Trogs and lead them to the safety of the R1C, while the Doctor engineers the fission grenades that are returned to the Oracle. With moments to spare, the R1C blasts away, loaded with the slaves and the race banks, and is pushed outward from the planetoid by the explosion of the fission grenades. The TARDIS crew depart, wishing the Minyans well as they journey on to Minyos II, their quest complete.\n\n\"Underworld\" was recorded entirely in-studio in October 1977. In an attempt to save money on production costs, the serial was recorded using the Colour Separation Overlay (CSO) technique. This approach involves recording the actors against a bluescreen, and then superimposing them on models of the sets – thus saving on the costs involved in set construction.\n\nThe serial borrows many elements and parallels from Greek mythology, in much the same way as the later \"The Horns of Nimon\". In particular, the story draws on the tale of Jason and the Argonauts. References include the \"Minyan\" race (related to the Minoans), the search for \"P7E\" (Persephone), and character names such as Jackson (\"Jason\"), Orfe (\"Orpheus\"), Herrick (\"Heracles\"), Tala (\"Talaus\"), Idmon and Idas. The connection is highlighted at the end of the episode, with the Doctor likening Jackson and his journey to Jason and his quest for the Golden Fleece.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping wrote of the serial in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), \"The direction is a bit lazy, and the design could be better ... The plot settles down to be dullish, but much more worthy than its reputation would suggest. The CSO's not that bad, either.\" In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker noted the bad reputation the serial had, but felt that it was better than that and a good example of the era. He praised the extra level the story takes by offering comparisons to Greek mythology, as well as the model work and CSO. In 2010, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" panned the story and its \"vapid characterisation, dodgy science and a dearth of anything dramatically engaging\". While he liked some scenes and also found the visual effects good, he did not feel that compensated for the unengaging story and lack of comedic direction.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in January 1980 under the title \"Doctor Who and the Underworld\". The novelisation opens with a lengthy history of the Minyans and the P7-E.\n\n\"Underworld\" was released on VHS in March 2002. It was released on the U.S. iTunes Store in August 2008. The story was released on 29 March 2010 in a DVD box set called \"Myths and Legends\" along with the Third Doctor serial \"The Time Monster\" and the Fourth Doctor serial \"The Horns of Nimon\". It was released individually in Region 1 on 7 July 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1816460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816460", "title": "Pilpul", "text": "Pilpul\n\nThe Hebrew term pilpul (, from \"pepper,\" loosely meaning \"sharp analysis\") refers to a method of studying the Talmud through intense textual analysis in attempts to either explain conceptual differences between various halakhic rulings or to reconcile any apparent contradictions presented from various readings of different texts. \"Pilpul\" has entered English as a colloquialism used by some to indicate extreme disputation or casuistic hairsplitting.\n\nThe requirement for close derivation of the conceptual structures underlying various Jewish laws, as a regular part of one's Torah study, is described by Maimonides as follows:\n\nOther sources include \"Pirkei Avot\", the Babylonian Talmud, and Rashi.\n\nIn the narrower sense, \"pilpul\" refers to a method of conceptual extrapolation from texts in efforts to reconcile various texts or to explain fundamental differences of approach between various earlier authorities, which became popular in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries: its founders are generally considered to be Jacob Pollak and Shalom Shachna. \"Pilpul\" was defined by Heinrich Graetz as \"the astonishing facility of ingenious disquisition on the basis of the Talmud.\"\n\nMany leading rabbinic authorities have harshly criticized this method as being unreliable and a waste of time, and it is regarded by some as having been discredited by the time of the Vilna Gaon. A common criticism is that those who used this method were often motivated by the prospect of impressing others with the sophistication of their analysis, rather than by a disinterested pursuit of truth; such students, it was held, did not apply appropriate standards of proof in obtaining their conclusions (if any), and frequently presupposed conclusions that necessitated unlikely readings (interpretations) of \"proof-texts\". As such, \"pilpul\" has been derogatorily called \"bilbul\", Hebrew for \"confusion\".\n\nThe Maharal of Prague, in a famous polemic against \"pilpul\", wrote: \"It would be better to learn carpentry or another trade, or to sharpen the mind by playing chess. At least they would not engage in falsehood, which then spills over from theory and into practice...\"\n\nIn the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, \"pilpul\" in this narrow sense was largely superseded by the analytic methods pioneered by the Lithuanian school, in particular the Brisker derech. However, many people consider these methods too to be a form of \"pilpul\", though the practitioners of the analytic method generally reject the term. Before World War II, both the old and the new kinds of \"pilpul\" were popular among Lithuanian and Polish Jews. Since then, they have become prominent in most Ashkenazi and many Chassidic yeshivas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816470", "title": "Elderly martial arts master", "text": "Elderly martial arts master\n\nThe elderly martial arts master is a mentor/teacher stock character in fiction, especially \"Wuxia\", \"Chanbara\", and other martial arts films. Typically an East Asian male, he is a near-invincible master of the martial arts, despite being advanced in age and presumably having a decrease in physical strength. Often he possesses the rank of sensei and is referred to as such by his student. The elderly master most often teaches either generic kung fu or an exotic style specific to the fictional period (see List of fictional martial arts). During the films, the master often becomes close with their student, with the master becoming a guardian figure to the trainee, who is, in turn, looked upon as a son or daughter. Usually, when the master is captured or killed, or an iconic portrait of the deceased master has been desecrated by some villains, the student will take it upon themselves to rescue or avenge their master.\n\nA typical elderly martial arts master spends most of his time meditating in a dojo. The master is typically a serene, calm, sober and reserved old man. He represents the maturity and self-contentment that comes with age, along with the quiet confidence that comes with experience—both of life in general and of the skills and also the ideals and values that he has inherited from the martial arts. To him, his martial art is not just a way to beat people up or to act tough, it is—in keeping with the values and ideals generally attached to and associated with the martial arts by the Oriental societies—more a means to positively developing one's personality and way of living to cultivate values such as respect, patience, self-control, discipline and the whole lot. The master is polite towards everyone, even the mischief makers who would misbehave with him sometime in the course of the movie. He always tries to verbally prevent mischief makers or the rival martial artist (who is often young and arrogant and sees the martial arts only as a means to act tough and bully people) for as long as he can, and that too politely. Only when he is forced to use his skills and left with no option, he shows how the mischief makers are no match for him—thereby demonstrating how politeness should not be mistaken for weakness. These are shown, for example, by Iroh in the \"\", Mr. Miyagi in the \"Karate Kid\" series, Mr. Han in the new \"Karate Kid\", Master Splinter in the \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" series, or Yoda of \"Star Wars\".\n\nThe master always speaks in a very calm and composed manner. In case of the master being east-Asian, as is almost always in such films, he is invariably given the accent of an Oriental (Chinese or Japanese) who is not used to speaking in English and can only speak it without much fluency and speed. His way of speaking takes on a particularly benevolent, patient, affectionate and friend-philosopher-guide tone when he speaks with his disciple. He typically reprimands and/or castigates the protégé in his more \"raw\" and \"immature\" stage, but always in a fatherly manner. In most films of this genre, he often controls or restrains his protégé, from getting provoked and retaliating at the \"bad boy(s)\", and makes the protégé realize that everything has the \"right place and time\" and that losing control of oneself or giving in to the provocations of the rival or enemy is not like the true martial artist he wants his disciple to become. \nHis speech is also full of philosophical observations, anecdotes, short parables or insights, that are mostly intended to constantly improve the insight and knowledge of the disciple in the martial arts, but also at times to improve his personality, behavior, moral values, and way of life. In the martial arts epic \"Enter The Dragon\", the old master at the beginning of the film is seen taking a walk with the hero played by Bruce Lee, where he tells his best disciple how the latter has succeeded in acquiring an intuitive skill in the art that has gone beyond the mere physical, and how it is his duty now to use that wisely and prudently in life. \nThe master's dialogues with the protégé would often carry short recollection of his own earlier life, his fighting or career experiences, or how he had come upon a particular knowledge or insight.\n\nThough the master is always the benevolent father-figure, he can be very strict when it comes to the training. He does not give any false hope to the protégé when it comes to training. He makes it very clear that in order to be trained by him, the young man has to be unquestioningly obedient and be ready to bear the pain.\n\nIn the movie \"Bloodsport\", the teenage Frank Dux is treated by the Japanese master Senzo Tanaka in a very fatherly and affectionate manner in general, but the training in rigorous and harsh, and the master never gives any relief or comfort zone to Frank Dux. In the movie \"Kickboxer\", the hero played by Jean-Claude Van Damme is made to kick the palm tree trunk with his bare shins, until he fractures his shin and drops to the ground in agony.\n\nIn \"The Karate Kid\", Mr. Miyagi makes Daniel LaRusso (Ralph Macchio) paint the fences and walls, and wipe the floors and the cars, with two specific arm-movements day after day, and only when Mr. Miyagi tests (by mock attacks) and finds that those movements have become spontaneous and unconscious reactions from Daniel, does he give the boy respite from that toil. It was then that Daniel too realizes, why after all his master had made him do that for days—in spite of him becoming tired, aching and fed-up—for those are actually blocking and parrying techniques, which his master by his experience, had ingrained into him without his being aware of it.\n\nIn many movies, the hero, after being wronged in some way by the rival gang or fighter, or after having his martial artist brother, or friend, maimed for life (or even killed) by the formidable and vicious fighter, seeks the master out himself with a resolution to take revenge. In such cases, the master is often unwilling at first, and may appear to be so just to test the seriousness and commitment of the protégé. But finally after a few days, he agrees to start training, after he feels the protégé has passed his test. The training imparted is typically harsh and rigorous right from day-one, and the master does not care if the hero has bruised and bloodied himself all over. He often administers medicine and pain-relief techniques, which are in many cases seen to be associated skills that such masters possess along with fighting techniques—since oriental martial arts are also closely related and complementary to traditional physio-therapy and healing systems. \nYet, in other movies, the protégé does not really have to persuade or coax the master. The master is seen right from the beginning. He and the protégé get to know each other often by a random event.\n\nIn \"Bloodsport\", the teenage Frank Dux sees a katana sword through the window of Senzo Tanaka's house, and in his teenage immaturity, decides to steal it with two of his friends. He is caught in the act, by the master and his son who was of the same age as Frank. But the master in gentle and kind to Frank, and instead of seeing that Frank is punished, decides to teach him a long term moral lesson—that such a sword can only be earned through merit, one cannot be a fighter by stealing it. He talks to Frank's parents about the benefits of martial training and expresses the wish to make Frank his student. That became the beginning of a lasting and close father-son like relationship between Frank and Tanaka, and when Tanaka's son died as a young adult, it was Frank—by then grown into a mature young man, a soldier in the army and a worthy disciple—whom Tanaka saw as his deserving successor and inheritor of his martial legacy. The training phase of the movie thus ended with a quiet ceremony in which Tanaka was seen handing over his katana to Frank, signifying Frank's success in earning that sword, which he had tried to steal as a young boy, by merit and qualification. Frank, too shows the place his master occupies in his life by dedicating his victory in the underground Kumite to him.\n\nIn the second \"Karate Kid\" movie, there is a touching scene where Daniel LaRusso is seen coming up to the bereaved and tearful Mr. Miyagi, who was sitting alone facing the sea and grieving for his father who had just died. Daniel sits besides him and comforts the old Mr. Miyagi both with words and an arm on his shoulder.\n\nIn some movies, the ability of the master to make his protégé rise above the thought of \"revenge\", and to acquire the moral strength and fortitude to hold himself back from doing to the rival/ villain the same thing that the latter once had done to his brother or friend, even in the face of the strongest provocation, is shown very movingly and dramatically. In the Taekwondo classic \"Best of the Best\", featuring some world-renowned martial-artists and a renowned martial arts grandmaster Hee Il Cho, the coach of the American team Frank Couzo (James Earl Jones), prevents the American fighter in the last face-off of the competition, Tommy Lee (Phillip Rhee), from dealing a fatal blow to his Korean opponent Dae Han Park (played by Philip's real-life brother Simon Rhee). Tommy had maimed his opponent and rendered him helpless by disabling his arms and legs, and the Korean could barely keep standing and taking a fighting stance. This was the same man who had cruelly killed his brother in sport combat years ago with excessive brutality. All Tommy had to do was to deal the final maiming or death blow with a powerful kick he had already braced himself for, as the scene of his brother's death flashed through his mind. But Coach Couzo's gentle but strong \"No!\" \"No!\" call from the sidelines helped Tommy avoid repeating the same crime for the sake of revenge and coming down to the level of Dae Han. By doing so, he won over Dae Han with moral strength instead of and eye-for-an-eye revenge, which made Dae Han repent and approach Tommy to hail him and give him his own medal after the fight was over.\n\nAlthough it is not necessarily a rule or always true, the elder martial arts master is almost always depicted as being childless and unmarried, the character having either never having had a wife or child or having lost both at some point in his life (Mr. Miyagi is a prime example of this). This is often contrasted by the hero having either a very strained relationship with his parents, or often depicted as having no parents at all in the picture. This common ground between the characters, as well as the hard training the hero must go through at the hands of his master, lead to a very close bonding experience between the two, with the master assuming a fatherly role to his young protégé, who is turn becomes a son to his master. Their mutual enemy, as well as the battles and issues they face throughout the film, help bring them together as the film progresses making the hero ultimately realize that, although his master pushed him hard, he is beloved in the end, having become a son. In turn, when viewing the hero triumph and succeed in his battle, the master experiences a fathers pride in his protégé.\n\nThe old master shows a wry sense of humor at times. Master Tanaka flashes his katana with a practiced lightning speed to cleanly cut off the visor of Frank's baseball cap, with Frank becoming wide-eyed in frightened surprise. In \"Kickboxer\" the lead character of Jean-Claude Van Damme is awakened flabbergasted at dawn by a splash of cold water from his master. The Kung Fu movies starring Jackie Chan are probably the most mentionable as containing the most instances of master-disciple frolics. In \"The Karate Kid\", when an arrogant rival misbehaves, Miyagi tells Daniel a story about Okinawa: there was a bull that terrorized everyone, but one fine day there was a feast, when everyone was scared no more. The angry bull became tasty soup.\n\nThe Master also keeps an eye on his protégé's less martial and more \"romantic\" activities. He views them in an indulgent manner, as Mr. Miyagi does in the case of Daniel, as something that is but normal for the protégé's age. But he also takes care, directly or indirectly, to make the disciple remember that the \"girl\" should not be interfering with and hampering his martial arts training or lessening his commitment to training. Miyagi also displays humor when he explains to Daniel the importance of belts in martial arts: \"In Okinawa, belt mean no need rope (to) hold up pants.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1816475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816475", "title": "Wit and Mirth, or Pills to Purge Melancholy", "text": "Wit and Mirth, or Pills to Purge Melancholy\n\nWit and Mirth: Or Pills to Purge Melancholy is the title of a large collection of songs by Thomas d'Urfey, published between 1698 and 1720, which in its final, six-volume edition held over 1,000 songs and poems. The collection started as a single book compiled and published by Henry Playford who had succeeded his father John Playford as the leading music publisher of the period. Over the next two decades, \"Pills\" went through various editions and expanded into five volumes; in 1719 Thomas D'Urfey reordered and added to the work to produce a new edition (also in 5 volumes) with the title \"Songs Compleat, Pleasant and Divertive\", published by Jacob Tonson. Volumes I and II now consisted entirely of songs (words, not tunes) by D'Urfey. The edition sold out quickly and in the second printing D'Urfey reverted to the \"Pills\" title. He added Volume 6 in 1720.\nThe title itself may derive from a 1599 pamphlet \"A Pil to Purge Melancholie\".\n\nIn 1920 William Giles Whittaker published \"North Country Folk Song set for unaccompanied voices: Words from D'Urfey's \"Pills to Purge Melancholy.\"\n\nIn 1956 Ed McCurdy recorded \"When Dalliance Was In Flower (and Maidens Lost Their Heads) Vol. 1\" for Elektra Records. Volume 2 was issued in 1957 with Volume 3 coming in 1958. \"Son of Dalliance\" came along in 1959 and in 1961 Elektra issued \"The Best Of Dalliance\". In 2005 Rhino Records issued a 28 track CD of \"The Best Of Dalliance\". This was a more folky treatment than the one by Will Holt, who published an album of 10 songs entitled \"Pills to Purge Melancholy\" (Stinson SLP78). The songs are almost all ribald. In 1966 Gerald Cockshutt orchestrated 10 of the songs for a set of dances called \"Maddermarket Suite\".\n\nIn 1968 S. A. J. Bradley published \"Sixty Ribald Songs from Pills to Purge Melancholy: Sixty Songs with Music\". This served as a source for several folk singers. In 1990 the City Waites recorded \"Pills to Purge Melancholy\" (26 songs sung by Lucie Skeaping and Richard Wistreich). They followed up in 1995 with \"Bawdy Ballads of Old England\". This time only a few of the songs were from D'Urfey's collection. In 2000 Hesperus recorded the album \"My Thing Is My Own: Bawdy Songs of D'Urfey\". In 2007 a 364-page edition of the collection appeared. It is not clear whether this contains the music as well as the words, or how many of songs are included.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816479", "title": "Andreyas", "text": "Andreyas\n\nAndreyas ( \"indrēyās\" \"Andrew\") was Emperor () (1429–1430) of Abyssinia, and a member of the Solomonic dynasty. He was the oldest son of Yeshaq I. The British explorer James Bruce, who wrote one of the earliest European histories of Abyssinia, reports little more than Andreyas was buried with his father at the Tadbaba Maryam monastery.\n"}
{"id": "1816480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816480", "title": "Suicide pill", "text": "Suicide pill\n\nA suicide pill (also known as the cyanide pill, kill-pill, chill pill, lethal pill, death-pill, or L-pill) is a pill, capsule, ampoule, or tablet containing a fatally poisonous substance that one ingests deliberately in order to quickly commit suicide. Military and espionage organizations have provided their agents in danger of being captured by the enemy with suicide pills and devices which can be used in order to avoid an imminent and far more unpleasant death (such as through torture), or to ensure that they cannot be interrogated and forced to disclose secret information. As a result, lethal pills have important psychological value to persons carrying out missions with a high risk of capture and interrogation.\n\nThe term \"poison pill\" is also used colloquially for a policy or legal action set up by an institution that has fatal or highly unpleasant consequences for that institution if a certain event occurs. Examples are the poison pill shareholders rights amendments inserted in corporate charters as a takeover defence, and wrecking amendments added to legislative bills.\n\nDuring World War II, British and American secret services developed the \"L-pill\" (lethal pill) which was given to agents going behind enemy lines. It was an oval capsule, approximately the size of a pea, consisting of a thin-walled glass ampoule covered in brown rubber to protect against accidental breakage and filled with a concentrated solution of potassium cyanide. It could be carried in the mouth, shaped as a false tooth; if it was accidentally swallowed it would pass harmlessly through the body. To use, the agent would bite down on the pill, crushing the ampoule to release the fast-acting poison. Heartbeat quickly stops and brain death occurs within minutes. \n\nAfter the war, the L-pill was offered to pilots of the U-2 reconnaissance plane, who were in danger of being shot down and captured flying over Eastern Europe, but most pilots declined to take it with them.\n\nThe Central Intelligence Agency began experimenting with saxitoxin, an extremely potent neurotoxin, during the 1950s as a replacement for the L-pill. According to CIA Director William Colby, a tiny saxitoxin-impregnated needle hidden inside a fake silver dollar was issued to Francis Gary Powers, an American U-2 pilot who was shot down while flying over the USSR in May 1960.\n\n\nIn economics, a suicide pill is a form of risk arbitrage used by corporations to suicide during hostile takeover attempts. As an extreme version of the poison pill defense, this crippling provision refers to any technique used by a target firm in which takeover protection could result in self-destruction.\n\nVariations of the suicide pill include the Jonestown Defense, the Scorched Earth defense, and the Golden Parachute.\n\nOne urban legend suggests that astronauts could carry suicide pills in case they are unable to return to Earth. It is possible this myth was started by the movie \"Contact\" in a scene where the main character is given suicide pills in case she cannot get back to Earth. This was disputed by astronaut Jim Lovell, who co-wrote \"Lost Moon\" (later renamed \"Apollo 13\"). On the DVD director's commentary, it was asserted that because marooned astronauts could easily commit suicide by simply venting the air from their spacecraft or suits, such a pill would not likely be necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816483", "title": "Glazenap (crater)", "text": "Glazenap (crater)\n\nGlazenap is a lunar impact crater that is located on the Moon's far side. It lies to the south-southwest of the huge walled plain Mendeleev, and to the northwest of the crater Pannekoek. This crater is nearly circular, and has not been significantly eroded. However, a small crater lies across the northwestern rim. The loose material deposited along the inner walls has accumulated at the base in a ring of scree about the interior floor.\n\nBy convention, these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Glazenap.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816487", "title": "Regina Jonas", "text": "Regina Jonas\n\nRegina Jonas (); 3 August 1902 – 12 October/12 December 1944) was a Berlin-born rabbi. In 1935, she became the first woman to be ordained as a rabbi. There had been some women before Jonas who made significant contributions to Jewish thought, such as the Maiden of Ludmir, Asenath Barzani, and Lily Montagu, who acted in similar roles without being ordained.\n\nJonas' father, who was probably her first teacher, died when she was 13. Like many women at that time, she followed a career as a teacher but was not content with the career she chose. In Berlin, she enrolled at the Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums (Higher Institute for Jewish Studies), the Academy for the Science of Judaism, and took seminary courses for liberal rabbis and educators. There she graduated as an \"Academic Teacher of Religion.\"\n\nWith the goal of becoming a rabbi, Jonas wrote a thesis that would have been an ordination requirement. Her topic was \"Can a Woman Be a Rabbi According to Halachic Sources?\" Her conclusion, based on Biblical, Talmudic, and rabbinical sources, was that she should be ordained. However, the Talmud professor responsible for ordinations refused her because she was a woman. Jonas applied to Rabbi Leo Baeck, spiritual leader of German Jewry, who had taught her at the seminary. He also refused because the ordination of a female rabbi would have caused massive intra-Jewish communal problems with the Orthodox rabbinate in Germany.\n\nOn 27 December 1935, Regina Jonas received her semicha and was ordained by the liberal Rabbi Max Dienemann, who was the head of the Liberal Rabbis' Association, in Offenbach am Main. Jonas found work as a chaplain in various Jewish social institutions while attempting to find a pulpit.\n\nBecause of Nazi persecution, many rabbis emigrated and many small communities were without rabbinical support. The duress of Nazi persecution made it impossible for Jonas to hold services in a synagogue, and she was soon ordered into forced labor. Despite this, she continued her rabbinical work as well as teaching and holding services.\n\nOn 4 November 1942, Regina Jonas had to fill out a declaration form that listed her property, including her books. Two days later, all her property was confiscated \"for the benefit of the German Reich.\" The next day, 5 November 1942, the Gestapo arrested her and she was deported to Theresienstadt, a notably advanced date for the commencement of internment, in comparison to the fate of most Jews. Within the internment town she continued her work as a rabbi, and Viktor Frankl, the well-known psychologist, asked her for help in building a crisis intervention service to improve the possibility of surviving by helping to prevent suicide attempts. Her particular job was to meet the trains at the station and screen disorientated newcomers, arriving at the increasingly overcrowded ghetto with a questionnaire on the topic of suicide, designed by Viktor Frankl. \n\nRegina Jonas worked in the Theresienstadt concentration camp for two years, her work included giving lectures on different topics. Records of some 23 written by Jonas survive, including \"What Is Power Nowdays Jewish Religion, the Power Source for Our Ego Ethics and Religion\". During her 2 year internment, Jonas was a member of a specific group that organized concerts, lectures and performances to distract others from events around them. \n\nUpon passing the June 1944 inspection, a number of summer months would pass at relative ease, until most all of the Jewish Council, including Jonas, were then deported amongst the majority of the town, to Auschwitz in mid-October 1944, where she was murdered either less than a day or two months later. She was 42 years old.\n\nOf the 520 or so who lectured in Theresienstadt, including Frankl and Leo Baeck no one ever mentioned her name or work.\n\nRegina Jonas's work was rediscovered in 1991 by Dr. Katharina von Kellenbach, a researcher and lecturer in the department of philosophy and theology at St. Mary's College of Maryland, who had been born in Germany. In 1991 she traveled to Germany to research material for a paper on the attitude of the religious establishment (Protestant and Jewish) to women seeking ordination in 1930s Germany. She found an envelope containing the only two existing photos of Regina Jonas, as well as Jonas' rabbinical diploma, teaching certificate, seminary dissertation and other personal documents, in an archive in East Berlin. It was newly available because of the fall of the Soviet Union and the opening of eastern Germany and other archives. It is largely due to von Kellenbach's discovery that Regina Jonas is now widely known.\n\nIn 1999, Elisa Klapheck published a biography about Regina Jonas and a detailed edition of her thesis, \"\"Can Women Serve as Rabbis?\"\". The biography, translated into English in 2004 under the title \"Fräulein Rabbiner Jonas – The Story of the First Woman Rabbi\", gives voice to witnesses who knew or met Regina Jonas personally as rabbi in Berlin or Theresienstadt. Klapheck also described Jonas' love relationship with Rabbi Josef Norden.\n\nA hand-written list of 24 of her lectures entitled \"Lectures of the One and Only Woman Rabbi, Regina Jonas\", still exists in the archives of Theresienstadt. Five lectures were about the history of Jewish women, five dealt with Talmudic topics, two dealt with biblical themes, three with pastoral issues, and nine offered general introductions to Jewish beliefs, ethics, and the festivals.\n\nA large portrait of Regina Jonas was installed on a kiosk that tells her story; it was placed in Hackescher Market in Berlin, as part of a citywide exhibition titled “Diversity Destroyed: Berlin 1933-1938-1945,” to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the National Socialists’ rise to power in 1933 and the 75th anniversary of the November pogrom, or Kristallnacht, in 1938.\n\nIn 1995, Bea Wyler, who had studied at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America in New York, became the first female rabbi to serve in postwar Germany, in the city of Oldenburg.\n\nIn 2001, during a conference of Bet Debora (European women rabbis, cantors and rabbinic scholars) in Berlin, a memorial plaque was revealed at Jonas’ former living place in Krausnickstraße 6 in Berlin-Mitte.\n\nIn 2003 and 2004, Gesa Ederberg and Elisa Klapheck were ordained in Israel and the US, later leading egalitarian congregations in Berlin and Frankfurt. Klapheck is the author of \"Fräulein Rabbiner Jonas – The Story of the First Woman Rabbi\" (2004).\n\nIn 2010, Alina Treiger, who studied at the Abraham Geiger College in Potsdam, became the first female rabbi to be ordained in Germany since Regina Jonas.\n\nIn 2011, Antje Deusel became the first German-born woman to be ordained as a rabbi in Germany since the Nazi era. She was ordained by Abraham Geiger College.\n\n2013 saw the premiere of the documentary \"Regina\", a British, Hungarian, and German co-production directed by Diana Groo. The film concerns Jonas's struggle to be ordained and her romance with Hamburg rabbi Josef Norden.\n\nOn 5 April 2014, an original chamber opera, also titled \"Regina\" and written by composer Elisha Denburg and librettist Maya Rabinovitch, premiered in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was commissioned and performed by the independent company Essential Opera and featured soprano Erin Bardua in the role of Regina, and soprano Maureen Batt as the student who uncovers her forgotten legacy in the archives of East Berlin in 1991. The opera is scored for five voices, clarinet, violin, accordion, and piano.\n\nOn 17 October 2014, which was Shabbat Bereishit, communities across America commemorated Regina Jonas's yahrzeit (anniversary of death).\n\nIn 2014, a memorial plaque to Regina Jonas was unveiled at the former Nazi concentration camp Theresienstadt in the Czech Republic, where she had been deported to and worked in for two years. There is a short documentary about the trip on which this plaque was unveiled, titled \"In the Footsteps of Regina Jonas\".\n\nIn 2015, Abraham Geiger College and the School of Jewish Theology at the University of Potsdam marked the 80th anniversary of Regina Jonas’s ordination with an international conference, titled \"The Role of Women’s Leadership in Faith Communities.\"\n\nIn 2017, Nitzan Stein Kokin, who was German, became the first person to graduate from Zecharias Frankel College in Germany, which also made her the first Conservative rabbi to be ordained in Germany since before World War II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816491", "title": "Don Samuelson", "text": "Don Samuelson\n\nDonald William Samuelson (July 27, 1913 – January 20, 2000) was an American Republican politician from Idaho. He was the state's 25th governor, serving a single term from 1967 to 1971, and is the state's most recent incumbent governor to lose a re-election bid (1970).\n\nBorn in Woodhull, Illinois, Samuelson grew up on a farm, and attended Knox College. He and his wife, Ruby A. Samuelson, were married in 1936 and had two children.\n\nSamuelson served in the U.S. Navy during World War II as a weapons instructor and gunsmith at the Farragut Naval Training Station, a major inland training facility at Lake Pend Oreille in northern Idaho.\n\nAfter the war, Samuelson stayed in the area; he brought his family out from Illinois and opened a sporting goods store in nearby Sandpoint. He also had an interest in a business that sold and leased mining and logging equipment.\n\nA conservative, Samuelson was encouraged by Governor Robert Smylie to run for the Idaho Senate in 1960. Samuelson won and was re-elected in 1962 and 1964. After the Democratic landslide of 1964, he decided to run for governor in 1966, which was still held by three-term incumbent Smylie, a moderate Republican from Boise and former state attorney general. In a heated race that drew national attention to the Republican gubernatorial primary, Samuelson won handily, 61 to 39%.\n\nFollowing their wins in the early August primary, Samuelson and attorney Charles Herndon of Salmon were slated to face each other in the November general election. In mid-September, while flying from Pocatello to Coeur d'Alene, Herndon and two others were killed in a private plane crash in the central Idaho mountains, northwest of The pilot of the twin-engine Piper PA-23 was the only survivor. Occurring only seven weeks before the election, the Democrats nominated the runner-up in the primary, state senator Cecil Andrus of Orofino, whom Samuelson defeated by over 10,000 votes.\n\nDuring the 1970 gubernatorial campaign, Samuelson supported molybdenum mining in central Idaho's White Cloud Mountains, and was defeated for re-election by Andrus – a staunch opponent of the mining development – and returned to private life.\n\nFollowing Samuelson's win in 1966, Democrats won the next six gubernatorial elections in Idaho, through 1990.\n\nSamuelson died at age 86 of a heart attack on January 20, 2000, at the Swedish Medical Center in Seattle. He is interred at Pinecrest Memorial Park in Sandpoint, Idaho.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816494", "title": "Takla Maryam", "text": "Takla Maryam\n\nTakla Maryam ( \"Plant of Mary,\" , throne name ) was Emperor () (1430–1433) of Ethiopia. A member of the Solomonic dynasty, he was the second son of Dawit I.\n\nManoel de Almeida remarks that the descendants of Takla Maryam had been taken from Amba Geshen by Emperor Zara Yaqob and \"exiled to hot lands where there are many diseases\"; when his son Emperor Baeda Maryam I, early in his reign, attempted to redress this injury by recalling them from exile, they slew his messengers. Although Baeda Maryam I promptly took punitive measures (which included decapitating 80 of their members), in de Almeida's day they were \"still rigorously watched\".\n"}
{"id": "1816502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816502", "title": "Gary Borrowdale", "text": "Gary Borrowdale\n\nGareth Ian Borrowdale (born 16 July 1985) is an English footballer who plays for Greenwich Borough. A left-sided player, Borrowdale plays as a left-back. He has also been known to operate as a central defender.\n\nBorrowdale began his career at Crystal Palace, and made his debut aged 17, in December 2002. He gave a good performance and made a regular place for himself in the first team, quickly making the transition to first-team football and becoming a regular member of the first XI. At just age 21, he made his 100th appearance for Palace, and looked to have a big future, collecting the club's \"\"Young Player of the Year\"\" award to cap some strong performances in the 2006–07 season. However, this would be his last at Selhurst Park. With his contract expired, he opted to join former Palace boss Iain Dowie at Coventry City, for a tribunal fee of £650,000.\n\nAt Coventry his career stuttered somewhat, with the team struggling and Dowie sacked, resulting in Borrowdale spending most of the season on the sidelines. In September 2008, he joined Colchester United on a month-long emergency loan. He started his first match for Colchester on 26 September.\n\nOn 23 November 2008, he became Queens Park Rangers manager Paulo Sousa's first loan signing since taking over at Loftus Road. He signed with the club on a permanent contract on 2 January 2009.\n\nBorrowdale was loaned out by QPR on a number of occasions. He joined League One side Brighton & Hove Albion on loan for the remainder of the season on 6 March 2009, after an injury to first choice left-back Jimmy McNulty, making 12 appearances for Brighton. On 18 March 2010, he joined League One club Charlton Athletic on a 28-day emergency loan. On 8 February 2011, he agreed a one-month loan deal with another League One club Carlisle United, and made his debut on the same day in a 3–0 defeat at Huddersfield Town. On 30 September 2011, he joined League Two club Barnet on an emergency loan deal.\n\nOn 21 May 2012, Queens Park Rangers announced that Borrowdale would be leaving the club when his contract expired at the end of June.\n\nOn 21 February 2013, Borrowdale signed for IFA Championship 1 club Carrick Rangers until the end of the 2012–13 season.\n\nOn 8 November 2013, he signed for Isthmian League club Margate.\n\nBorrowdale returned to professional football at the end of January 2014 when he signed for Gillingham. He was released by the club at the end of the 2013–14 season, without having played a match for them.\n\nOn 5 August 2014, Borrowdale signed for Greenwich Borough.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816504", "title": "Kari Wahlgren", "text": "Kari Wahlgren\n\nKari Wahlgren (born July 13, 1977) is an American voice actress who has provided English-language voices for animated movies, TV series, and video games. She got her start in anime voice-overs as Haruko Haruhara in \"FLCL\", and would later land major roles in a number of shows and films: Robin Sena in \"Witch Hunter Robin\", Lavie Head in \"Last Exile\", Fuu in \"Samurai Champloo\", Scarlett in \"Steamboy\", Pacifica Casull in the \"Scrapped Princess\", Saya Otonashi in \"Blood+\", Kagami Hiiragi in \"Lucky Star\", Saber in \"Fate/zero\", \"\" and \"\", and Celty Sturluson in the \"Durarara!!\" series.\n\nIn American animation, she has provided voices for a number of series including \"Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!\", \"Fish Hooks\", \"Phineas and Ferb\", \"Ben 10\", \"\", \"Winx Club\", \"\", \"Rick and Morty\", \"Bunnicula\", \"The Fairly OddParents\", \"Bunsen Is a Beast\", and \"Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz\". In video games, she voiced lead characters Ashe in \"Final Fantasy XII\" and Shelke in \"\".\n\nWahlgren was born and raised in Hoisington, Kansas. She was inspired as a child by the Disney Princesses and other voices in animation. Her parents were teachers, which encouraged her to support charities and organizations that promote reading and education later in her career. On her eleventh birthday, when she and her family were in California and toured the building for Focus on the Family, she was asked to do a bit role in their radio drama \"Adventures in Odyssey\", as an eleven-year-old character named Gloria McCoy.\n\nWahlgren graduated from the University of Kansas with a Bachelor of Arts in Theater in 1999. She lived in Kansas City, Missouri where she did some radio spots, then moved to Los Angeles in 2000 to work on her acting career. In an interview in \"Lawrence Journal-World\", she said that she was not getting much on-camera work, so she shifted her energies towards voice-over work, and that her experience with dialogue and Shakespeare classes helped a lot towards landing roles that involved various characters, some of which had accents or were from certain time periods.\n\nWahlgren's debut anime role was Haruko Haruhara in a six-episode OVA series called \"FLCL\". In an interview with \"Anime Tourist\", she said that Haruko was the only character she got to audition for. She depicted her as close to the original dub but with some American interpretation to appeal to the audience, and depending on how she was drawn, she changed her voice range from cartoon and childlike to realistic. In a later review of the series, Bryce Coulter of Mania.com was impressed by her character work: \"she definitely gives Haruko that twenty-something, sarcastic and almost punkish persona.\" In 2018, she voiced in the new \"FLCL\" seasons, including as main character Haruha Raharu in \"FLCL: Progressive\" and reprising Haruko in \"FLCL: Alternative\".\n\nWahlgren's next major anime dub role was in \"Witch Hunter Robin\", where she played the title character Robin Sena, a soft-spoken girl who joins a group of witch hunters, but harbors some magic abilities of her own. Zac Bertschy of Anime News Network said she was \"pleasant, subtle and perfect for the role\" and wished the supporting voice cast would demonstrate such subtleties. She voiced lead character Lavie Head in the steampunk fantasy series \"Last Exile\". Allen Divers of Anime News Network grouped her with the \"better known names of the California voice-acting scene\". She voiced title character Sakura Kinomoto in Bang Zoom!'s dubbing of \"\", which Divers praised that \"the voice actors did a great job of matching the emotions of the original Japanese voices, including Sakura's trademark expression 'Hoe!'\", something that was missing in previous English adaptations. In live-action works, she starred as Tinkerbell in an indie Peter Pan film rendition called \"Neverland\", released in 2003. Her character was described as a \"sullen sidekick\" and \"drugged-out\".\n\nIn 2004, she voiced a starring role in the animated feature film \"Steamboy\", among actors Anna Paquin, Patrick Stewart and Alfred Molina. She played Scarlett, a teenage granddaughter of the corporation's chairman, described as spoiled and cruel, and generally annoying. Peter Sanderson of IGN called Scarlett one of the most obnoxious characters he has ever encountered, and hardly stands up to her movie equivalent. She voiced Chika Minazuki in \"Ai Yori Aoshi\", a little cousin character. Way Jeng of Mania.com described her performance as energetic, yet innocent and simple, but contrasting to Wendee Lee's voicing of Tina Foster. In 2005, she voiced the female lead character Fuu Kasumi in \"Samurai Champloo\". Carlo Santos of Anime News Network thought the characters sounded \"well-suited to their personalities\", but was concerned that Fuu \"falls into the habit of sounding like every other ditzy anime girl out there.\" In \"Scrapped Princess\", she voices the title character Pacifica Casull, who is hunted down because of a prophecy where she would cause the destruction of the world if she lives to see her 16th birthday. Theron Martin called her acting of \"Pacifica's brattiness and deep sensitivity solidly pegged\", although it is different from her Japanese counterpart as it \"lacks some of the poutiness\", and takes some time to get used to.\n\nWahlgren has been involved in a number of video games. Her first voice-over role in video games was in \"\" where she played Willow Rosenberg. In the James Bond video game \"From Russia with Love\", released in 2005, she voiced a Bond girl that was paired with Sean Connery's original voice. In 2006, she landed leading roles of Ashe in \"Final Fantasy XII\" and Shelke in \"Dirge of Cerberus – Final Fantasy VII\". In an interview conducted by UFFSite and RPGSite, she recounts how she received notice of the roles on two consecutive days, and said that the franchise was like \"the holy grail of video game acting\". She portrayed Ashe with a bit of a regal tone, after the director encouraged her to do so following a class where she was doing Shakespeare. She describes her character as someone a girl would look up to as \"intelligent, diplomatic, and can kick ass and look good doing it\". In contrast, Shelkie was desired to be portrayed as very cold and emotionless, which she describes as \"cold, but sympathetic.\" In 2007, she voiced the playable title character in the strategy-RPG \"Jeanne d'Arc\".\n\nWahlgren's involvement in animation voice-over took off in 2004 when she was cast in a lead role in the Disney/Jetix ensemble action superhero show \"Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go!\" where she voiced Nova. The show ran for four seasons from 2004 to 2006. She would also pick up recurring villain roles such as Samantha Paine aka Magness in \"A.T.O.M.\" and Charmcaster in \"Ben 10\", the latter of which would return in the show's sequels and related video games. In 2007, she voiced Tak's friend Jeera in Nickelodeon's computer graphics-animated series \"Tak and the Power of Juju\". She voiced little sister character Suzy Johnson in Disney’s hit series \"Phineas and Ferb\", and participated in the second season of the animated comedy \"Lil' Bush\" where she voiced Lil' Hillary and Lil' Condi.\n\nWahlgren became a regular cast member for \"Fish Hooks\", which premiered in 2010, where she voiced Shellsea and many supporting and guest characters. She landed the role of Tigress in the television adaptation \"\"; the series premiered in 2011 and has run over four seasons. In 2012, she had the lead role of Allie Underhill in the action series \"\", which spanned 52 episodes, and picked up roles in other cartoon shows such as \"Gravity Falls\", \"\", and \"Winx Club\". She voiced Meg, the starring love interest in the Disney short film \"Paperman\" which screened before \"Wreck-It Ralph\" in the theaters in 2012. In an interview with her school's alumni association, she said that she was asked to do the role because of her previous involvements in \"Bolt\" and \"Tangled\". Recording for the film took about 30 minutes, mostly of vocal sounds. The short went on to win an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film.\n\nIn 2015, she joined the cast of \"Fairy OddParents\" as a starring character Chloe Carmichael in its show's tenth season. She continued to voice Jessica and other characters for \"Rick and Morty\" which has concluded its third season, and voiced Amanda in the Butch Hartman-produced series \"Bunsen Is a Beast\" which aired on Nickelodeon in February 2017. In July 2017, she voiced Dorothy Gale in the animated television series \"Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz\" broadcast on Boomerang.\n\nSome of her work has garnered recognition, awards and nominations from websites that review anime and animation. Mania.com wrote that Wahlgren's performance as the straight-man character Kagami Hiiragi in \"Lucky Star\" was absolute sarcastic perfection, and named her the Best Overlooked Actress for 2008 in their annual Anime Dubbies Awards. Theron Martin liked Celty Sturluson, a headless dullahan character in \"Durarara!!\" who uses mostly body language and typed words. In his year-end awards for 2011, he selected Wahlgren the Best English Dub Performance – Female.\n\nOn the Behind the Voice Actors website, she was selected by the staff as the Voice Actress of the Year in 2012, and was nominated for 2011 and 2013. She received nominations in other categories: Best Female Lead Vocal Performer in an Anime Title for Celty in \"Durarara!!\" in 2011, Best Female Lead Vocal Performance in a Television Series – Action / Drama for Allie Underhill in \"Kaijudo\" in 2012, Best Female Lead Vocal Performance in a Television Series – Comedy / Musical for Tigress in \"\" in 2012, Best Female Lead Vocal Performance in an Anime Television Series/OVA for Saber in \"Fate/zero\", Best Female Supporting Vocal Performance in an Anime Movie/Special for Karina Lyle/Blue Rose in \"Tiger & Bunny: The Beginning\" in 2013, Best Female Vocal Performance in a Television Series in a Guest Role – Action/Drama for Letta Turmond in \"\" and Best Female Vocal Performance in a Video Game in a Supporting Role for Courtney Collins in \"\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816505", "title": "Revenge (Kiss album)", "text": "Revenge (Kiss album)\n\nRevenge is the sixteenth studio album by American rock band Kiss, released on May 19, 1992. It is the band's first album to feature current drummer Eric Singer, following the death of former drummer Eric Carr in November 1991, and is the group's last album to feature musical contributions from Carr. Marking a stylistic departure from the pop-influenced glam metal sound which characterized much of the band's 1980s output, the album reached the Top 20 in several countries, though it failed to reestablish the group back in the mainstream and its sales were equal-to or less-than its predecessors, ultimately only being certified gold by the RIAA on July 20, 1992.\n\nThe album was dedicated to Carr, and the closing track, \"Carr Jam 1981,\" is a demo the drummer had recorded soon after joining the group in 1980. One modification to the song was the dubbing of Bruce Kulick's guitar over Ace Frehley's original work. The main riff of the song was used as the basis for the Frehley's Comet song \"Breakout\", from the 1987 album \"Frehley's Comet\".\n\nIn February 1991, Kiss was asked by the producers of the film \"Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey\" to record the song \"God Gave Rock 'n Roll to You II\", (a remake of the song \"God Gave Rock 'n Roll to You\" by the English rock band Argent) which would be produced by Bob Ezrin. The band agreed and reunited with Ezrin after 10 years and the debacle they had with \"Music from \"The Elder\"\". Gene Simmons was not sure it was the right move, \"especially after the bad experience of \"The Elder\"\". Simmons, Ezrin and Paul Stanley rewrote the song, which they recorded with both Eric Carr and Eric Singer, with Singer playing the drums while Carr (who was not able to play the drums due to health problems) sang the a cappella line \"...to everyone, he gave his song to be sung.\" The song was featured in the sequel \"Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey\" with a 40-second-long Steve Vai solo instead of the Kiss intro found on the album. It was a major success, breaking the Top 30 in seven countries, including United States (on Mainstream Rock Tracks), United Kingdom and Australia. It was good enough for the band to continue with Ezrin on a \"Hot in the Shade\" follow-up.\n\nCarr went to the hospital and was diagnosed with heart cancer. He underwent open-heart surgery in April 1991 to remove tumors. Shortly after the surgery, Carr joined the band to perform in the \"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\" music video. According to Simmons, Carr had lost all his hair due to chemotherapy and had to wear a wig for the shoot. After the shoot, Paul and Gene persuaded Carr to take care of his health and not worry about the band. Kiss's original plan was for Singer to play drums with the band until Carr was healthy enough to return. However, Carr's health continued to decline—and he died in November 1991. Kiss officially hired Singer to replace Carr.\n\nIn December 1991, Kiss and Ezrin returned to the studio to work on a new album. In a surprising move, they sought help from former guitarist Vinnie Vincent. According to Simmons, \"Vinnie Vincent came up to me and apologized for causing the band all the grief while he was a member. He wanted to patch things up and wondered if I would consider writing some songs with him. 'Sure,' I said. I wanted to let bygones be bygones. I called Paul and told him that Vinnie had apparently changed. Paul wrote songs with him as well. But before the album was released, Vinnie was up to his old tricks again. He reneged on a signed deal we had made and decided that he wanted to renegotiate. He eventually sued us and lost. As far as I was concerned, he was persona non grata forever.\"\n\nStanley wrote a song, \"Do Ya Wanna Touch Me Now,\" with Dave \"The Snake\" Sabo of Skid Row. Stanley said about the exclusion of the song from the album: \"It's a great luxury to have an album that's so good that another song is only going to detract from it rather than make it any better. As good as the song is, we didn't need it.\" The two met when Stanley was on the phone with Nikki Sixx, who had Sabo on the other line. They later discussed Stanley's possible appearance for Skid Row's recording of Kiss's song \"C'mon and Love Me\" for an-all covers EP \"B-Side Ourselves\". That was never made, so the two wrote a song in L.A.. Stanley also worked with Jani Lane of Warrant on a song, \"If You Could See Through My Eyes.\" The collaboration started before the recording sessions for \"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\", and during the recording sessions for Warrant's most successful album \"Cherry Pie.\" Stanley also penned \"Take It Off\" with Kane Roberts (formerly of Alice Cooper), which was featured heavily during the tour for the \"Revenge\" album.\n\nSimmons went to work with Bob Dylan. The music was written at Simmons's guesthouse, and while Simmons was to write the lyrics to the song, he thought they were not completed and asked Dylan to write them. Dylan insisted that Simmons write the lyrics. Simmons explained the meeting with Dylan: \"I wanted to write a song with Dylan. So, like most things I do, I bullheadedly picked up the phone, tracked down his manager, and said, 'Hi, I'm that guy who sticks his tongue out, and I wanna write a song with Dylan,' or words to that effect. The results could only be 'yes' and 'no.' Dylan said yes. He came over to my house a few years back, and we sat down and started throwing ideas around. Bob came up with a melody/chordal pattern... I chimed in with a melody/chorus idea and voila, we had a song. Lyrics weren't written as yet. I demoed the track with Tommy Thayer. Bob came down to visit and listen. When the demo was done, I asked Bob to write the lyric. He said no, why don't I write it. I have tried to write a meaningful lyric, but it has eluded me. I've bumped into Bob a few times... in Tokyo, while he was on tour, and every time I ask him to write the lyric, and he always says, 'Mr. KISS, you write it.' The song, originally titled \"Laughing When I Want to Cry,\" was later renamed to \"Waiting for the Morning Light\" and released on Simmons's second studio album \"Asshole\".\n\nThe recording of the album was finished in March 1992. Additional personnel include Dick Wagner of Alice Cooper band on guitar solo on \"Every Time I Look at You\" (Wagner had previously performed as a ghost player on \"Destroyer\"), Kevin Valentine on drums on \"Take It Off\" (Valentine later performed drums as a ghost player on \"Psycho Circus\"), Jesse Damon, Tommy Thayer, and Jaime St. James on backing vocals (Thayer later became the lead guitarist for the band, replacing Ace Frehley in 2002 after Frehley left the band after rejoining Stanley, Simmons and original drummer Peter Criss in 1996 for the Reunion Tour).\nThe songs \"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\" and \"Carr Jam 1981\" were not planned to be featured on the album, but after the death of Eric Carr, the two were included, and the album was dedicated to Carr. During the \"\" special aired on VH1 Classic, Simmons stated the importance of the song \"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\": \"It's not just a cover song for a soundtrack, but a testament to Eric Carr, and I think a lot of people don't realize that.\"\n\nThe first single released from the album was \"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\", which was a big hit in the UK and Switzerland, reaching #4. It peaked at #21 on the US Mainstream Rock Tracks Chart and #18 on the Australian Singles Charts. \"Domino\" was the next single from the album, peaking at #26 on the US Mainstream Rock Tracks Chart. The third was \"I Just Wanna\", which peaked at #34 on the US Mainstream Rock Tracks Chart. The last single was \"Every Time I Look at You\", charted only in Sweden, reaching #31. \"Unholy\" was promotionly released in the USA, but it was released as second single in other countries. It reached Top 30 in five countries: United Kingdom and Germany, where it reached #26; Netherlands, where it reached #28; Sweden, where the song reached #19 and Norway, where \"Unholy\" reached its highest, #2. Music videos were made for each single, with Revenge being the Kiss album with the most produced music videos.\n\nKiss promoted the album on their Revenge Tour across North America and the United Kingdom throughout 1992, during which the live album Alive III was recorded in Detroit.\n\n\"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\" and \"Unholy\" have remained regular Kiss live staples. The songs \"Domino\" and \"Take It Off\" were also performed during the Revenge Tour and Kiss My Ass Tour. \"I Just Wanna\" was only performed during the Revenge Tour, while \"Every Time I Look at You\" and \"Spit\" were, along with \"Domino\", performed during the MTV Unplugged show.\n\nThe album received mixed reviews. John Franck of Allmusic said: \"Some of the cuts are excellent, delivered with conviction and panache, but for all the hype, the album is also tainted with filler.\" He gave the album three out of five stars saying that Ezrin made Kiss sound \"fresh again\". \"Rolling Stone\"'s review was harsh, giving the album one out of five stars.\n\nErik Rupp of Vista Records gave the album 4.5 stars out of 5, saying: \"Sonically, \"Revenge\" is outstanding as well. The drums are mixed just right—not too big and boomy, but big enough to sound right with these songs. The snare drum has a snap to it to go along with the depth and presence that gives each song a firecracker-like energy. The guitar tones are not super distorted, and they aren't as up front in the mix as on an album like, say, \"Asylum\", but when the complementary rhythm parts are played together they sound big and bold anyway. They cut through. And the bass sounds both fuller and punchier than on any previous Kiss album.\"\n\n\"Revenge\" debuted at number 6 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and was the band's first Top 10 album in the United States since 1979's \"Dynasty\". The album reached the Top 10 in Australia (number 5), United Kingdom and Sweden (number 10), Switzerland (number 6), and Norway (number 4). Despite the high debut, the album quickly fell off the charts, but sold enough for gold certificate in the United States and Canada. As of February 12, 2007, the album has sold over 596,000 copies in the United States, according to Nielsen Soundscan.\n\nKiss\n\nAdditional personnel\n\nProduction\n\n\"God Gave Rock 'N' Roll to You II\"\n\"Unholy\"\n\"Domino\"\n\"I Just Wanna\"\n\"Every Time I Look at You\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1816507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816507", "title": "Strange Behaviour", "text": "Strange Behaviour\n\nStrange Behaviour is an album of remixes by Duran Duran. It was released by EMI in March 1999.\n\nThe title comes from a line in the song \"Skin Trade\": \"\"would someone please explain, the reason for this strange behaviour\"\". The band had previously used \"Strange Behaviour\" as the name of their 1987 tour. A 1987 EP of remixes from the \"Notorious\" album that was released in Italy and Japan under the title \"Strange Behavior\" (American-English spelling without the 'u', rather than the British spelling used here).\n\nHaving dropped Duran Duran after their 1997 album \"Medazzaland\", EMI was keen to begin mining the band's back catalogue. They had already released a new hits collection called \"Greatest\" (1998) and were finally getting around to releasing versions of songs that were not easily obtainable on CD.\n\nIn years to come, EMI would continue to mine the band's catalogue by reissuing the first four albums (\"Arena\" including two bonus tracks), as well as two singles boxsets and a collection of videos.\n\nReleased on two CDs, the collection really split the remixed output of Duran Duran down the middle. The first CD featured all the 12\" mixes released during the initial period of the original lineup 1981–1984, as well as remixes of several album tracks.\n\nFor the release of this compilation, EMI inadvertently unearthed two previously unreleased remixes, the Night Mix of \"Planet Earth\" and a remix of \"Hold Back The Rain\".\n\nCD Two features remixes from a new era when singles were being released with multiple remixes. As such, EMI cherry picked remixes from various sources for the second disc.\n\nSome of these were commissioned but never used, like the \"Love Voodoo\" remix, or released on promotional only singles like the Dub Mix of \"I Don't Want Your Love\", the Chemical Reaction mix of \"American Science\" and the Jellybean Benitez remix of \"Too Much Information\", the latter originally appearing on a 12\" on the DJ service SIN label.\n\nCD One 1981–1984:\n\nCD Two 1986–1993:\n"}
{"id": "1816508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816508", "title": "High energy", "text": "High energy\n\nHigh energy may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816511", "title": "Golovin (crater)", "text": "Golovin (crater)\n\nGolovin is a lunar impact crater that is located to the southeast of the walled plain Campbell. It lies in the northern hemisphere on the Moon's far side, and cannot be seen directly from the Earth. Just two crater diameters to the southwest of Golovin is the larger crater Appleton, and to the north is Langevin.\n\nThe nearly circular rim of Golovin is not markedly eroded, and is not overlaid by any impacts of note. There is a slight outward bulge to the northwest. The inner walls are relatively wide, and have slumped slightly near the top edge. There is a formation of central ridges at the midpoint of the interior. The interior floor is otherwise small and relatively level.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Golovin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816512", "title": "Sarwe Iyasus", "text": "Sarwe Iyasus\n\nSarwe Iyasus ( \"śārwa iyasūs\", \"Army of Jesus;\" Amh.: \"sārwe iyesūs\"; throne name Mehreka Nañ ምሕርከ ናኝ \"miḥrika nāñ\" \"distributor of your [the Lord's] mercy\") was Emperor (\"nəgusä nägäst\") of Ethiopia in 1433, and a member of the Solomonic dynasty. He was the older son of Takla Maryam.\n\nAccording to E. A. Wallis Budge, Sarwe Iyasus ruled for either four or eight months, and died of plague. According to James Bruce, some of the Ethiopian lists of rulers omit his name.\n"}
{"id": "1816518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816518", "title": "Methanol economy", "text": "Methanol economy\n\nThe methanol economy is a suggested future economy in which methanol and dimethyl ether replace fossil fuels as a means of energy storage, ground transportation fuel, and raw material for synthetic hydrocarbons and their products. It offers an alternative to the proposed hydrogen economy or ethanol economy.\n\nIn the 1990s, Nobel prize winner George A. Olah advocated a methanol economy; in 2006, he and two co-authors, G. K. Surya Prakash and Alain Goeppert, published a summary of the state of fossil fuel and alternative energy sources, including their availability and limitations, before suggesting a methanol economy.\n\nMethanol can be produced from a wide variety of sources including still-abundant fossil fuels (natural gas, coal, oil shale, tar sands, etc.) as well as agricultural products and municipal waste, wood and varied biomass. It can also be made from chemical recycling of carbon dioxide.\n\nMethanol is a fuel for heat engines and fuel cells. Due to its high octane rating it can be used directly as a fuel in flex-fuel cars (including hybrid and plug-in hybrid vehicles) using existing internal combustion engines (ICE). Methanol can also be burned in some other kinds of engine or to provide heat as other liquid fuels are used. Fuel cells, can use methanol either directly in Direct Methanol Fuel Cells (DMFC) or indirectly (after conversion into hydrogen by reforming).\n\nMethanol is already used today on a large scale to produce a variety of chemicals and products. Global methanol demand as a chemical feedstock reached around 42 million metric tonnes per year as of 2015. Through the methanol-to-gasoline (MTG) process, it can be transformed into gasoline. Using the methanol-to-olefin (MTO) process, methanol can also be converted to ethylene and propylene, the two chemicals produced in largest amounts by the petrochemical industry. These are important building blocks for the production of essential polymers (LDPE, HDPE, PP) and like other chemical intermediates are currently produced mainly from petroleum feedstock. Their production from methanol could therefore reduce our dependency on petroleum. It would also make it possible to continue producing these chemicals when fossil fuels reserves are depleted.\n\nToday most methanol is produced from methane through syngas. Trinidad and Tobago is currently the world's largest methanol exporter, with exports mainly to the United States. The natural gas that serves as feedstock for the production of methanol comes from the same sources as other uses. Unconventional gas resources such as coalbed methane, tight sand gas and eventually the very large methane hydrate resources present under the continental shelves of the seas and Siberian and Canadian tundra could also be used to provide the necessary gas. \n\nThe conventional route to methanol from methane passes through syngas generation by steam reforming combined (or not) with partial oxidation. New and more efficient ways to convert methane into methanol are also being developed. These include:\n\nAll these synthetic routes emit the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide CO. To mitigate this, methanol can be made through ways minimizing the emission of CO. One solution is to produce it from syngas obtained by biomass gasification. For this purpose any biomass can be used including wood, wood wastes, grass, agricultural crops and their by-products, animal waste, aquatic plants and municipal waste. There is no need to use food crops as in the case of ethanol from corn, sugar cane and wheat.\nMethanol can be synthesized from carbon and hydrogen from any source, including still available fossil fuels and biomass. CO emitted from fossil fuel burning power plants and other industries and eventually even the CO contained in the air, can be a source of carbon. It can also be made from chemical recycling of carbon dioxide, which Carbon Recycling International has demonstrated with its first commercial scale plant. Initially the major source will be the CO rich flue gases of fossil-fuel-burning power plants or exhaust from cement and other factories. In the longer range however, considering diminishing fossil fuel resources and the effect of their utilization on earth's atmosphere, even the low concentration of atmospheric CO itself could be captured and recycled via methanol, thus supplementing nature’s own photosynthetic cycle. Efficient new absorbents to capture atmospheric CO are being developed, mimicking plants' ability. Chemical recycling of CO to new fuels and materials could thus become feasible, making them renewable on the human timescale.\n\nMethanol can also be produced from CO by catalytic hydrogenation of CO with H where the hydrogen has been obtained from water electrolysis. This is the process used by Carbon Recycling International of Iceland. Methanol may also be produced through CO electrochemical reduction, if electrical power is available. The energy needed for these reactions in order to be carbon neutral would come from renewable energy sources such as wind, hydroelectricity and solar as well as nuclear power. In effect, all of them allow free energy to be stored in easily transportable methanol, which is made immediately from hydrogen and carbon dioxide, rather than attempting to store energy in free hydrogen.\n\nor with electric energy\n\nThe necessary CO would be captured from fossil fuel burning power plants and other industrial flue gases including cement factories. With diminishing fossil fuel resources and therefore CO emissions, the CO content in the air could also be used. Considering the low concentration of CO in air (0.04%) improved and economically viable technologies to absorb CO will have to be developed. For this reason, extraction of CO from water could be more feasible due to its higher concentrations in dissolved form. This would allow the chemical recycling of CO, thus mimicking nature’s photosynthesis.\n\nIn the process of photosynthesis, green plants use the energy of sunlight to split water into free oxygen (which is released) and free hydrogen. Rather than attempt to store the hydrogen, plants immediately capture carbon dioxide from the air to allow the hydrogen to reduce it to storable fuels such as hydrocarbons (plant oils and terpenes) and polyalcohols (glycerol, sugars and starches). In the methanol economy, any process which similarly produces free hydrogen, proposes to immediately use it \"captively\" to reduce carbon dioxide into methanol, which, like plant products from photosynthesis, has great advantages in storage and transport over free hydrogen itself.\n\nMethanol is a liquid under normal conditions, allowing it to be stored, transported and dispensed easily, much like gasoline and diesel fuel. It can also be readily transformed by dehydration into dimethyl ether, a diesel fuel substitute with a cetane number of 55.\n\nMethanol is water-soluble: An accidental release of methanol in the environment would, cause much less damage than a comparable gasoline or crude oil spill. Unlike these fuels, methanol is biodegradable and totally soluble in water, and would be rapidly diluted to a concentration low enough for microorganism to start biodegradation. This effect is already exploited in water treatment plants, where methanol is already used for denitrification and as a nutrient for bacteria. Accidental release causing groundwater pollution has not been thoroughly studied yet, though it is believed that it might undergo relatively rapid.\n\nMethanol economy advantages compared to a hydrogen economy:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816525", "title": "Amda Iyasus", "text": "Amda Iyasus\n\nAmda Iyasus ( \"ʿāmda iyasus\", \"Pillar of Jesus,\" ) was Emperor (\"nəgusä nägäst\") (throne name Badel Nan በድል ናኝ \"badil nāñ\"; 1433–1434) of Abyssinia, and a member of the Solomonic dynasty. He was the younger son of Takla Maryam.\n\nE. A. Wallis Budge notes that Amda Iyasus ruled for eight months, and left no children. The royal chronicles also do not relay his deeds during his brief tenure atop the throne. Al-Maqrizi was reportedly puzzled by the quick turnover in Kings.\n"}
{"id": "1816526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816526", "title": "Grachev (crater)", "text": "Grachev (crater)\n\nGrachev is a lunar impact crater on the far side of the Moon. It lies to the northwest of the Mare Orientale impact basin, in the outer skirt of ejecta surrounding the Montes Cordillera mountain ring. Passing along the southwestern edge of Grachev is the Catena Michelson, a valley-like formation composed of a linear chain of small craters. This feature is radial to the Mare Orientale basin. To the north is the crater Leuschner.\n\nThis crater has only a slightly eroded outer rim, with a small outward protrusion along the northern side. The interior floor is relatively featureless, with a small rise near the midpoint.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816528", "title": "Legenda Aurea", "text": "Legenda Aurea\n\nLegenda Aurea is a heavy metal band from Zürich, Switzerland, where they were formed in 2005, while they play a style of gothic metal, power metal, and symphonic metal music.\n\nThey formed during 2005 in Zürich, Switzerland, where they are vocalist, Simone Christinat, guitarist, Odilo \"Odi\" von Ins, bassist, Herki, keyboardist, Renato Trinkler, and drummer, Philipp Eichenberger. Their former vocalist was Claudia Hofer, while their founding drummer was Martin Roth, and one of their past guitarist was Michael Herkenrath.\n\nThe group have released three albums. Their first studio album, \"Sedna\", was released on 26 January 2007, by Mindstorm Records. They released, \"Ellipsis\", on 6 March 2009, with Twilight Zone Records. The third studio album, \"Aeon\", was released independently on 12 February 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816534", "title": "Green (lunar crater)", "text": "Green (lunar crater)\n\nGreen is a lunar impact crater on the Moon's far side. It was named after British mathematician and physicist George Green in 1970. Prior to that, it was designated \"Crater 216\". It lies just to the west of the huge walled plain Mendeleev, and is nearly joined with the west-northwestern edge of the crater Hartmann.\n\nThe crater has not been significantly eroded although a few tiny craterlets lie along the edge and inner wall. The perimeter is nearly circular, but has an outward bulge along the eastern side with some indications of a landslip. The inner sides display some terrace structures, particularly to the northeast. At the midpoint of the relatively level interior floor is a central ridge. The floor is more level along the western half, with some low rises in the east. There are only a few tiny craterlets on the interior.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Green.\n\nGreen M crater has a ray system and is consequently mapped as part of the Copernican system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816555", "title": "Troezen", "text": "Troezen\n\nTroezen (; ancient Greek: Τροιζήν, modern Greek: Τροιζήνα ) is a small town and a former municipality in the northeastern Peloponnese, Greece, on the Argolid Peninsula. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Troizinia-Methana, of which it is a municipal unit. It is part of the Islands regional unit.\n\nTroezen is located southwest of Athens, across the Saronic Gulf, and a few miles south of Methana. The seat of the former municipality (pop. 6,507) was in Galatas. Before 2011, Troizina was part of the former Piraeus Prefecture (in antiquity it was part of Argolis). The municipality had a land area of 190.697 km². Its largest towns and villages are Galatás (pop. 2,195 in 2011), Kalloní (pop. 669), Troizína (pop. 673), Taktikoúpoli (250), Karatzás (287), Dryópi (239), Ágios Geórgios (228), and Agía Eléni (159). There are numerous smaller settlements.\n\nAccording to Greek mythology, Troezen came into being as a result of two ancient cities, Hyperea and Antheia, being unified by Pittheus, who named the new city in honor of his deceased brother, Troezen.\n\nTroezen was where Aethra, daughter of Pittheus, slept with both Aegeus and Poseidon on the same night and fell pregnant with the great Greek hero Theseus. Before returning to Athens, Aegeus left his sandals and sword under a large boulder in Troezen and requested that when the child was able to prove himself by moving the boulder, he must return the items to his father in Athens; Theseus lifted the boulder when he came of age.\n\nTroezen is the setting of Euripides' tragedy \"Hippolytus\", which recounts the story of the eponymous son of Theseus who becomes the subject of the love of his stepmother, Phaedra. While fleeing the city, Hippolytus is killed when his chariot is attacked by a bull rising from the sea. Other plays on the same subject have been written by Seneca and Jean Racine, which are also set in Troezen.\n\nThe ancient city had a spring that was supposedly formed where the winged horse Pegasus once came to ground.\n\nA cult built up in the ancient city around the legend of Hippolytus. Troezen girls traditionally dedicated a lock of their hair to him before their marriage.\n\nSybaris in Magna Graecia was a Troezenian colony (founded 720 BC).\n\nBefore the Battle of Salamis (480 BC), Athenian women and children were sent to Troezen for safety on the instructions of the Athenian statesman Themistocles. In 1959, a stele was found in a coffee house in Troezen, depicting the \"Decree of Themistocles\", the order to evacuate Athens. The stele has since been dated to some 200 years after the Battle of Salamis, indicating that it is probably a commemorative copy of the original order.\n\nThe temple of Isis was built by the Halicarnassians in Troezen because it was their mother-city, but the image of Isis was dedicated by the people of Troezen. The city also bore the name Apollonia () in antiquity.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, it was known as Damala (Δαμαλᾶ) and was the seat of a barony of the Principality of Achaea.\n"}
{"id": "1816558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816558", "title": "Level of invention", "text": "Level of invention\n\nLevel of invention (or \"degree of inventiveness\", or \"level of solution\", or \"rank of solution\", or \"rank of invention\") is a relative degree of changes to the previous system (or solution) in the result of solution of inventive problem (one containing a contradiction). Term was defined and introduced by TRIZ author G. S. Altshuller.\n\nAfter initially reviewing 200,000 patent abstracts, Altshuller selected 40,000 as representatives of high level inventive solutions. The remainder involved direct improvements easily recognized within the specialty of the system.\n\nAltshuller separated the patents' different degrees of inventiveness into five levels:\n\nThese levels of invention are applied to solutions rather than problems requiring a system of solution.\n\nAlso level of invention and the potential for innovation in any nation, geographical area or economic activity is as measurement in the concept of \"innovative capacity\" originally introduced by Prof. Suarez-Villa in 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816573", "title": "Comparison of JavaScript engines (DOM support)", "text": "Comparison of JavaScript engines (DOM support)\n\nThe following tables compare Document Object Model (DOM) compatibility and support for a number of JavaScript engines used in web browsers.\n\nFor features that are fully supported (based on DOM Level 2 or DOM Level 3 modules that are under W3C Recommendation), an exact version number is given if it is certain that the feature was added in such version. DOM Level 0 and DOM Level 3 modules that are still under development are not included.\n\nSee List of ECMAScript engines for a full list.\nThe interfaces within this section are considered fundamental, and must be fully implemented by all conforming implementations of the DOM, including all HTML DOM implementations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe interfaces defined here form part of the DOM Core specification, but objects that expose these interfaces will never be encountered in a DOM implementation that deals only with HTML.\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. This section extends the DOM Core API to describe objects and methods specific to HTML documents, and XHTML documents. In general, the functionality needed to manipulate hierarchical document structures, elements, and attributes will be found in the core section; functionality that depends on the specific elements defined in HTML will be found in this section. Elements deprecated since HTML 4.01 are not listed. Some elements and attributes listed here are deprecated in XHTML 1.1. For example, presentation attributes, image maps, frames and targets.\n\n\n\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. The interfaces in this section are base interfaces used to represent any type of style sheet.\n\nThe interfaces within this section are considered fundamental CSS interfaces, and must be supported by all conforming implementations of the CSS module. These interfaces represent CSS style sheets specifically.\n\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory.\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. The first goal is the design of a generic event system which allows registration of event handlers, describes event flow through a tree structure, and provides basic contextual information for each event. The second goal of the event model is to provide a common subset of the current event systems used in DOM Level 0 browsers. See also DOM Events for details.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. A document may have one or more \"views\" associated with it, e.g., a computed view on a document after applying a CSS stylesheet, or multiple presentations (e.g. HTML frame) of the same document in a client. That is, a view is some alternate representation of, or a presentation of, and associated with, a source document.\n\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. Its interfaces provide easy-to-use, robust, selective traversal of a document's contents.\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. It includes methods for creating and moving a Range and methods for manipulating content with Ranges.\nThe interfaces within this section are considered fundamental, and must be fully implemented by all conforming implementations of the DOM Load and Save module.\nThe interfaces found within this section are not mandatory. This module provides interfaces to guide construction and editing of XML documents. Examples of such guided editing are queries like those that combine questions like \"what does the schema allow me to insert/delete here\" and \"if I insert/delete here, will the document still be valid.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1816574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816574", "title": "Danny Mills", "text": "Danny Mills\n\nDaniel John Mills (born 18 May 1977) is an English former professional footballer best known for his time at Leeds United. His main position was right-back, though he could also play as central defender. On 7 August 2009 he announced his retirement from the game at the age of 32, due to an ongoing knee injury.\n\nDue to Gary Neville's injury before the tournament, he was England's first choice right-back at the 2002 World Cup.\n\nMills began his career with Norwich City after coming through their youth system. He was unable to establish a regular place in the side and moved to Charlton Athletic in March 1998 and helped them win promotion to the Premier League via the play-offs, playing in their dramatic win over Sunderland in the play-off final, winning 7–6 on penalties after a 4–4 draw.\n\nFifteen months later, Mills signed for Leeds United in a £4.1 million transfer in what he later described as a \"dream move\" to \"the club I love\". He played a part in helping Leeds reach the 2000-01 UEFA Champions League Semi-final. Mills' Champions League debut came in Leeds' 4–0 defeat by Barcelona at the Nou Camp.\n\nMills spent the 2003–04 season on loan at Middlesbrough, where he played in the 2004 Football League Cup Final to help Middlesbrough to their first ever major trophy.\n\nFollowing relegation from the Premier League at the end of 2003–04, Leeds could no longer afford to retain Mills' services, and he moved to Manchester City on a free transfer in the close season, signing a five-year contract. As part of his severance package with Leeds, Mills continued to receive part of his wages from the Yorkshire club for the duration of his original Leeds contract. Mills often said that he would've liked to go back to Leeds again (along with Olivier Dacourt), but this never materialised. Mills has been seen at Leeds games with his son after the club's relegation to the Football League Championship.\n\nMills made his Manchester City debut in the opening fixture of the 2004–05 season, a 1–1 draw against Fulham at the City of Manchester Stadium. He started the majority of matches in his first season at Manchester City, but was dropped from the first team when Stuart Pearce replaced Kevin Keegan as manager in March 2005. He regained his place for the start of the 2005–06 season, and on 2 October 2005, he scored his first and only goal for Manchester City, a powerful shot from against Everton. One month later, he sustained a shin injury which resulted in a fifteen-game absence. The injury coincided with the emergence of Micah Richards who deposed him as first choice right-back; after Richards made his debut, Mills made only five further first team appearances in the remainder of the season.\n\nOn 14 September 2006 he joined Hull City in a two-month loan deal. He returned to Manchester City in January and was on the verge of being sent on loan to Hull City again or Leeds United, but a decision was made to keep him at City. Following the appointment of Sven-Göran Eriksson as Manchester City manager, Mills was transfer listed. He re-joined former club Charlton on a loan deal until the end of 2007.\n\nHe joined Premier League strugglers Derby County on loan, in January 2008 until 2 May. However, he was injured in only his second game for the \"Rams\", returning to City shortly after. On 1 July 2009, he was released by Manchester City after his contract finally expired. On 7 August 2009 Mills announced his retirement from all football during an appearance on BBC Five Live.\n\nFollowing a series of impressive performances for Leeds United, Mills received his first England callup in 2001, making his international debut on 25 May 2001, as a substitute in a friendly against Mexico at Pride Park. His first England start came on 27 March 2002 in a friendly against Italy. At the 2002 FIFA World Cup, Mills was chosen as England's first choice right-back following an injury to Gary Neville, and he played every minute of England's five matches.\n\nMills is a patron of Shine (formerly the Association for Spina Bifida And Hydrocephalus), and has raised money for the charity since the death of his son Archie from the condition in 2002. He has also appeared on BBC Five Live's Fighting Talk. Mills now acts as a regular pundit and commentator (often alongside Alan Green) for BBC Radio Five Live's coverage of the Premier League, League Cup, FA Cup, UEFA Champions League and England national football team matches.\n\nIn 2010, he competed in the Brighton Marathon in a wheelchair to raise money for Shine and the National Association of Disabled Supporters, completing the race in two hours, 43 minutes.\n\nMills was a runner up, along with Michael Underwood, on the 2012 series of Celebrity MasterChef. He was beaten by Emma Kennedy in a closely contested final.\n\nIn 2016, he ran the London Marathon for The Bobby Moore Fund, finishing in a time of 3hours 14mins 46secs... he had previously run the Yorkshire Marathon for the Jane Tomlinson Appeal in 3hours 17mins.\n\nMiddlesbrough\n\n"}
{"id": "1816587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816587", "title": "Differential algebra", "text": "Differential algebra\n\nIn mathematics, differential rings, differential fields, and differential algebras are rings, fields, and algebras equipped with finitely many derivations, which are unary functions that are linear and satisfy the Leibniz product rule. A natural example of a differential field is the field of rational functions in one variable over the complex numbers, formula_1, where the derivation is differentiation with respect to \"t\".\n\nDifferential algebra refers also to the area of mathematics consisting in the study of these algebraic objects and their use for an algebraic study of the differential equations. Differential algebra was introduced by Joseph Ritt in 1950.\n\nA \"differential ring\" is a ring \"R\" equipped with one or more \"derivations\", that are homomorphisms of additive groups\n\nsuch that each derivation ∂ satisfies the Leibniz product rule\n\nfor every formula_4. Note that the ring could be noncommutative, so the somewhat standard d(\"xy\") = \"x\"d\"y\" + \"y\"d\"x\" form of the product rule in commutative settings may be false. If formula_5 is multiplication on the ring, the product rule is the identity\n\nwhere formula_7 means the function which maps a pair formula_8 to the pair formula_9.\n\nA differential field is a commutative field \"K\" equipped with derivations.\n\nThe well-known formula for differentiating fractions\n\nfollows from the product rule. Indeed, we must have\n\nBy the product rule, we then have\n\nSolving with respect to formula_13, we obtain the sought identity.\n\nIf \"K\" is a differential field then \"the field of constants\" of \"K\" is formula_14\n\nA differential algebra over a field \"K\" is a \"K\"-algebra \"A\" wherein the derivation(s) commutes with the scalar multiplication. That is, for all formula_15 and formula_16 one has\n\nIf formula_18 is the ring homomorphism to the center of A defining scalar multiplication on the algebra, one has\n\nAs above, the derivation must obey the Leibniz rule over the algebra multiplication, and must be linear over addition. Thus, for all formula_20 and formula_21 one has\n\nand\n\nA derivation on a Lie algebra formula_24 is a linear map formula_25 satisfying the Leibniz rule:\n\nFor any formula_27, ad(\"a\") is a derivation on formula_24, which follows from the Jacobi identity. Any such derivation is called an inner derivation. This derivation extends to the universal enveloping algebra of the Lie algebra.\n\nIf \"A\" is unital, then ∂(1) = 0 since ∂(1) = ∂(1 × 1) = ∂(1) + ∂(1). For example, in a differential field of characteristic zero formula_29, the rationals are always a subfield of the field of constants of formula_29.\n\nAny ring is a differential ring with respect to the trivial derivation which maps any ring element to zero.\n\nThe field Q(\"t\") has a unique structure as a differential field, determined by setting ∂(\"t\") = 1: the field axioms along with the axioms for derivations ensure that the derivation is differentiation with respect to \"t\". For example, by commutativity of multiplication and the Leibniz law one has that ∂(\"u\") = \"u\" ∂(\"u\") + ∂(\"u\")\"u\" = 2\"u\"∂(\"u\").\n\nThe differential field Q(\"t\") fails to have a solution to the differential equation\n\nbut expands to a larger differential field including the function \"e\" which does have a solution to this equation.\nA differential field with solutions to all systems of differential equations is called a differentially closed field. Such fields exist, although they do not appear as natural algebraic or geometric objects. All differential fields (of bounded cardinality) embed into a large differentially closed field. Differential fields are the objects of study in differential Galois theory.\n\nNaturally occurring examples of derivations are partial derivatives, Lie derivatives, the Pincherle derivative, and the commutator with respect to an element of an algebra.\n\nDifferential rings and differential algebras are often studied by means of the ring of pseudo-differential operators on them.\n\nThis is the set of formal infinite sums\nwhere formula_33 means that the sum runs on all integers that are not greater than a fixed (finite) value.\n\nThis set is made a ring with the multiplication defined by linearly extending the following formula for \"monomials\":\nwhere formula_35 is the binomial coefficient. (If formula_36 the sum is finite, as the terms with formula_37 are all equal to zero.)\nIn particular, one has\nfor , , and , and using the identity\nformula_39\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816588", "title": "Rare bird", "text": "Rare bird\n\nRare bird is an idiom.\n\nRare bird may also refer to:\n\nFilms\nMusic\n"}
{"id": "1816593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816593", "title": "Heureka (science center)", "text": "Heureka (science center)\n\nHeureka is a Finnish science center in Vantaa, Finland, north of Helsinki, designed by Heikkinen – Komonen Architects. The aim of the science centre, which opened its doors to the public in 1989, is to popularize scientific information and to develop the methods used to teach science and scientific concepts. The name ‘Heureka’ (eureka in English) refers to the Greek exclamation, presumably uttered by Archimedes, to mean “I’ve found it!” (made a discovery). The Science Centre Heureka features both indoor and outdoor interactive exhibitions with exhibits that enable visitors to independently test different concepts and ideas. There is also a digital planetarium with 135 seats.\n\nThe Heureka Science Centre is a non-profit organization run by the Finnish Science Centre Foundation. The Finnish Science Centre Foundation is a broadly based co-operation organization that includes the Finnish scientific community, education sector, trade and industry, and national and local government. The ten background organisations of the Foundation support, develop and actively participate in the activities of Heureka. The foundation’s highest body is the Board of Trustees, whose decisions are implemented by the Governing Board. Everyday activities are the responsibility of Heureka’s Director assisted by a management team and other staff.\n\nThe roots of the Finnish Science Centre Heureka can be traced back to the University of Helsinki and scientists, who had become acquainted with different science centres located around the world. The initial spark was lit by Adjunct Professors Tapio Markkanen, Hannu I. Miettinen and Heikki Oja. It all began with the Physics 82 exhibition held at the House of the Estates in Helsinki on 20–26 May 1982. During autumn of that same year, the science centre project was launched with the initial support of the Academy of Finland, the Ministry of Education, and various foundations. The project led to the establishment of the Finnish Science Centre Foundation during 1983-1984. The original founding members of the foundation included the University of Helsinki, the Helsinki University of Technology, the Federation of Finnish Learned Societies, and the Confederation of Industries.\n\nIn 1984, the City of Vantaa offered to be the host city and partial financier for the Science Centre, and also designated a property lot located in the southern end of Tikkurila as the future site of the centre. An architectural competition, held in 1985, turned out two first prizes from which the winning design was selected; namely the “Heureka” design submitted by Mikko Heikkinen, Markku Komonen and Lauri Anttila. That's how the Finnish Science Centre Heureka got its apt name!\nBefore the building was completed, a number of test exhibitions were set up at other sites. The interior plan for the Science Centre was completed in 1986. The foundation for the building was laid in October 1987, and the construction work was completed one year later. The overall area of the building is 8,200 m2, of which 2,800 m2 is exhibition space. The Finnish Science Centre Heureka opened its doors to the public on 28 April 1989.\n\nThe main exhibition hall houses about 200 exhibits related to different fields of science. The main exhibition was renewed completely in 1999, but there are small changes taking place in the main exhibition hall each year as well. The topics include, for example, digestion and the functions of the intestines, the production of money and traffic. The exhibition ‘The Wind in the Bowels’ has been designed in co-operation with the Finnish Medical Society Duodecim. The exhibition ‘About a Coin’ was implemented through collaboration with the Mint of Finland to mark the company’s 150th anniversary.\n\nAs an extension of the main exhibition, the Heureka Classics exhibition was opened in 2009 in honour of Heureka’s 20th anniversary. From the beginning of August 2009, Heureka has also had the Science on a Sphere exhibit on display. \n\nIn addition to the main exhibition, Heureka generally also houses two temporary exhibitions. The topics of past temporary exhibitions have included, for example, dinosaurs, humans, sports, forests, the art of film, flying and ancient cultures. Since Heureka’s opening, the most successful exhibitions have been the dinosaur exhibitions. The 2001 exhibition about the family life of dinosaurs, for example, attracted 406,000 visitors. Many of the exhibitions independently produced by Heureka have made guest appearances in numerous science centres all over the world. Heureka also features exhibitions imported from abroad.\n\nHeureka’s outdoor exhibition area, Science Park Galilei, opened in 2002. This area of the centre can be visited annually during the summer season. Galilei is a sort of “scientific playground”. The 7,500 m2 area holds dozens of exhibits, many of which feature water as the primary element. The exhibits are based on mathematical, physical and musical phenomena. The outdoor park also contains moving works of art, such as the sand plotter created by well-known Finnish artist Osmo Valtonen. Galilei also features an arboretum with species of conifers from the northern hemisphere.\n\nThe area in front of Heureka features a permanent bedrock exhibition, which contains both common and rare types of rocks found in Finland’s bedrock. The rocks are situated to reflect their distribution throughout different geographical provinces of Finland. Leading up to the front entrance, visitors are also greeted by perennial gardens that were planted in accordance with the historical classification system designed by Carolus Linnaeus. The front of the entrance is tiled in Penrose tiling.\n\nThe hemispheric-shaped planetarium primarily presents films dealing with astronomy. Until 2007, the theatre was called the Verne Theatre, and it ran super films and multimedia programmes made with special slide projectors that took advantage of the entire 500 m2 surface of the hemispheric screen. At the end of 2007, the theatre was entirely renovated, and reopened on 26 December 2007 as one of Europe’s most modern digital planetariums. There are altogether 135 seats in Heureka’s planetarium.\n\nIn addition to the exhibitions and planetarium films, Heureka also offers the opportunity to view daily science theatre shows, to participate in supervised programmes and to watch Rat Basketball games. Furthermore, a number of other individual events, such as Science Days, science holidays and science camps in the summer are organised at Heureka. Public lectures with different themes are also regularly held in Heureka’s auditorium. Public lectures are given in the planetarium as well. Other services at Heureka include a science shop and a restaurant, as well as conference facilities and a 220-seat auditorium for meetings.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2011, an average of about 280,000 people has visited Heureka each year. The total number of visitors exceeded six million in May 2010. Altogether more than 22 million people have viewed Heureka’s exhibitions on display both in Finland and abroad.\nOf the average 280,000 people who visit Heureka each year, more than half represent families, one fourth school students, about 10% are corporate visits, and the rest are individual visitors. About 6-10% of the visitors arrive from abroad, with the highest percentage coming from Russia and Estonia. The number of visitors is affected by, for example, the general economic situation, the weather and the excursion funds available to school groups.\n\nHeureka is run by the Finnish Science Centre Foundation, whose original members include the University of Helsinki, the Helsinki University of Technology (nowadays Aalto University), the Federation of Finnish Learned Societies, and the Confederation of Industries (nowadays Confederation of Finnish Industries, EK), the City of Vantaa, the Ministry of Education (nowadays Ministry of Education and Culture), the Ministry of Trade and Industry (nowadays Ministry of Employment and the Economy), the Ministry of Finance, the Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions (SAK), and the Trade Union of Education in Finland (OAJ).\n\nHeureka’s funding is provided through subsidies from the City of Vantaa and the Ministry of Education and Culture, as well as through its own operational revenue: admission and rental fees, fundraising and exhibition export. Heureka’s overall funding is approximately nine million euro, of which the revenue from own operations was 48% in 2011. The share of the funding provided by the City of Vantaa and the Ministry of Education and Culture was altogether 52% in 2011. The public support is notably less than for many other cultural institutions. Part of the funding also comes through corporate co-operation. The temporary exhibitions are often sponsored by main partners and other partners. Heureka also has two companies owned entirely by the Foundation, namely the Science Shop Magneetti Oy, which runs the Heureka Shop at Heureka and at the Kamppi Shopping Centre in central Helsinki, and Heureka Overseas Productions Oy Ltd, which manages the export activities of Heureka.\n\nAt the end of 2014, the Foundation had a staff of 68 full-time salaried employees and 32 part-time or fixed-term employees. The total number of person-years was 77. Additionally 7 206 hours were carried out by volunteers. There have been volunteers in Heureka since 1998, and there are currently about 60-70 volunteers in the service of Heureka.\n\nThe center is a member of three associations of science centers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816594", "title": "Magic Blue Airlines", "text": "Magic Blue Airlines\n\nMagic Blue Airlines was a charter passenger airline based in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. It was previously an all-freight operator and intended to operate charter services from Amsterdam Schiphol Airport to Mediterranean holiday destinations starting later in 2005 using BAe ATP aircraft.\n\nIn December 2005 the airline filed for bankruptcy.\n\n\nThe airline was established as Farnair Europe and was renamed in January 2004. It was wholly owned by FN Holding. In March 2005 it was planning to use two Boeing 757-200s to start charter operations later that year instead of Airbus A300B4-200s as it had previously announced. In May 2005 two ex-Air Europa BAe ATP freighters were shortly to be added to the fleet. In November 2005 the airline wet leased two McDonnell Douglas MD-83s from Fly Air. In December 2005 Magic Blue Airlines filed for bankruptcy, never having started commercial operations. In May 2006, Magic Bird the successor to Magic Blue Airlines finally started operations with a single BAe ATP freighter.\n\nThe Magic Blue Airlines fleet included the following aircraft (at July 2005):\n\n\nAll aircraft were leased from BAE Systems.\n"}
{"id": "1816595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816595", "title": "And You Think You Know What Life's About", "text": "And You Think You Know What Life's About\n\nAnd You Think You Know What Life's About is the second album by Dishwalla. It was released on August 11, 1998, on A&M Records.\n\nTotal Length: 50:46\n\n"}
{"id": "1816597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816597", "title": "Zara Yaqob", "text": "Zara Yaqob\n\nZar'a Ya`qob or Zera Yacob (Ge'ez ዘርአ:ያዕቆብ \"zar'ā yāʿiqōb\", English: \"Descendant of Jacob\"; 1399 – 26 August 1468) was the Emperor (\"nəgusä nägäst\") of Ethiopia, and a member of the Solomonic dynasty who ruled under regnal name Kwestantinos I (Ge'ez ቈስታንቲኖስ \"qʷastāntīnōs\") or Constantine I, from the old province of Shewa, where the capital of the Amhara emperors was located before the post-16th-century Oromo migrations and the destructive war with Gran Ahmad. Born at Telq in the province of Fatajar (now part of the Oromia Region, near the Awash River), Zara Yaqob was the youngest son of Dawit I and his youngest wife, Igzi Kebra.\n\nThe British expert on Ethiopia, Edward Ullendorff, stated that Zara Yaqob \"was unquestionably the greatest ruler Ethiopia had seen since Ezana, during the heyday of Aksumite power, and none of his successors on the throne – excepted only the emperors Menelik II and Haile Selassie – can be compared to him.\"\n\nPaul B. Henze repeats the tradition that the jealousy of his older brother Tewodros I forced the courtiers to take Zara Yaqob to Tigray where he was brought up in secret, and educated in Axum and at the monastery of Debre Abbay. While admitting that this tradition \"is invaluable as providing a religious background for Zar'a-Ya'iqob's career\", Taddesse Tamrat dismisses this story as \"very improbable in its details.\" The professor notes that Zara Yaqob wrote in his \"Mashafa Berhan\" that \"he was brought down from the royal prison of Mount Gishan only on the eve of his accession to the throne.\"\n\nUpon the death of Emperor Dawit, his older brother Tewodros ordered Zara Yaqob confined on Amba Geshen (around 1414). Despite this, Zara Yaqob's supporters kept him a perennial candidate for Emperor, helped by the rapid succession of his older brothers to the throne over the next 20 years, and left him as the oldest qualified candidate. David Buxton points out the effect that his forced seclusion had on his personality, \"deprived of all contact with ordinary people or ordinary life.\" Thrust into a position of leadership \"with no experience of the affairs of state, he [Zara Yaqob] was faced by a kingdom seething with plots and rebellions, a Church riven with heresies, and outside enemies constantly threatening invasion.\" Buxton continues,\n\nAlthough he became Emperor in 1434, Zara Yaqob was not crowned until 1436 at Axum, where he resided for three years. It was not unusual for Ethiopian rulers to postpone their coronation until later in their reigns.\n\nAfter he became Emperor, Zara Yaqob invaded the Hadiya Sultanate and forcefully married the captured princess Eleni, who was baptized before their marriage. Eleni was the daughter of the king of Hadiya, one of the Muslim Sidamo kingdoms south of the Abay River. Although she failed to bear him any children, Eleni grew into a powerful political person. When a conspiracy involving one of his Bitwodeds came to light, Zara Yaqob reacted by appointing his two daughters, Medhan Zamada and Berhan Zamada, to these two offices. According to the Chronicle of his reign, the Emperor also appointed his daughters and nieces as governors over eight of his provinces. These appointments were not successful.\n\nHe defeated Badlay ad-Din, the Sultan of Adal at the Battle of Gomit in 1445, which consolidated his hold over the Sidamo kingdoms in the south, as well as the weak Muslim kingdoms beyond the Awash River. Similar campaigns in the north against the Agaw and the Falasha were not as successful.\n\nAfter witnessing a bright light in the sky (which most historians have identified as Halley's Comet, visible in Ethiopia in 1456), Zara Yaqob founded Debre Berhan and made it his capital for the remainder of his reign.\n\nIn his later years, Zara Yaqob became more despotic. When Takla Hawariat, abbot of Dabra Libanos, criticized Yaqob's beatings and murder of men, the emperor had the abbot himself beaten and imprisoned, where he died after few months. Zara Yaqob was convinced of a plot against him in 1453, which led to more brutal actions. He increasingly became convinced that his wife and children were plotting against him, and had several of them beaten. Seyon Morgasa, the mother of the future emperor Baeda Maryam I, died from this mistreatment in 1462, which led to a complete break between son and father. Eventually relations between the two were repaired, and Zara Yaqob publicly designated Baeda Maryam as his successor.\n\nAt the time Zara Yaqob assumed the throne, the Ethiopian church had been divided over the issue of Biblical Sabbath observance for roughly a century. One group, loyal to the Coptic bishops, believed that the day of rest should be observed only on Sunday, or Great Sabbath; another group, the followers of Ewostatewos, believed with their founder that both the original seventh-day Sabbath (i.e., Saturday, or Lesser Sabbath) and Sunday should be observed.\n\nHe was successful in persuading two recently arrived Egyptian Abuns, Mikael and Gabriel, into accepting a compromise aimed at restoring harmony with the House of Ewostatewos, as the followers of Ewostatewos were known. At the same time, he made efforts to pacify the House of Ewostatewos. While the Ewostathians were won over to the compromise by 1442, the two Abuns only agreed to the compromise at the Council of Debre Mitmaq in Tegulet (1450).\n\nEmperor Zara Yaqob also continued as the defender of the Patriarch of Alexandria. When he heard in 1441 of the destruction of the Egyptian monastery of Debre Mitmaq by Sultan Az-Zahir Sayf-ad-Din Jaqmaq, he called for a period of mourning, then sent a letter of strong protest to the Sultan. He reminded Jaqmaq that he had Muslim subjects whom he treated fairly, and warned that he had the power to divert the Nile, but refrained from doing so for the human suffering it would cause. Jaqmaq responded with gifts to appease Zara Yaqob's anger, but refused to rebuild the Coptic churches he had destroyed.\n\nAccording to Richard Pankhurst the Emperor was also \"reputedly an author of renown\", having contributed to Ethiopian literature as many as three important theological works. One was \"Mahsafa Berha\" (\"The Book of Light\"), an exposition of his ecclesiastical reforms and a defence of his religious beliefs; the others were \"Mahsafa Milad\" (\"The Book of Nativity\") and \"Mahsafa Selassie\" (\"The Book of the Trinity\").\n\nZara Yaqob sent delegates to the Council of Florence in 1441, and established ties with the papacy and Western Christianity. They were confused when council prelates insisted on calling their monarch Prester John. They tried to explain that nowhere in Zara Yaqob's list of regnal names did that title occur. However, the delegates' admonitions did little to stop Europeans from referring to the monarch as their mythical Christian king, Prester John.\n\nHe also sent a diplomatic mission to Europe (1450), asking for skilled labour. The mission was led by a Sicilian, Pietro Rombulo, who had previously been successful in a mission to India. Rombulo first visited Pope Nicholas V, but his ultimate goal was the court of Alfonso V of Aragon, who responded favorably.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816604", "title": "Federación Mexicana de Charrería", "text": "Federación Mexicana de Charrería\n\nThe Federación Mexicana de Charrería (Mexican Federation of Charreria) regulates \"charrería\" events in Mexico. \"Charrería\", officially the National Sport of Mexico, consists of a series of Mexican equestrian events rooted in the horsemanship brought over from Spain during their conquest of the New World. The most noted event is the \"charreada\", or Mexican rodeo.\n\nOriginally chartered on December 16, 1933, in Mexico City as the \"Federación Nacional de Charros\" (National Federation of Charros), the purpose was to unify all the various \"charro\" organizations. The \"charros\" had organized themselves during the 1920s to preserve the customs and culture that were quickly disappearing following the breakup of the haciendas by the Mexican revolutionaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816611", "title": "Communist Party of Greece (Marxist–Leninist)", "text": "Communist Party of Greece (Marxist–Leninist)\n\nThe Communist Party of Greece (Marxist–Leninist) (, \"Kommounistiko Komma Elladas (marxistiko-leninistiko)\", KKE (m-l)), is a Maoist communist political party in Greece.\n\nKKE (m-l) was founded in November 1976 by the majority of the Organisation of Marxists-Leninists of Greece (OMLE), itself a splinter group of the Communist Party of Greece since 1964. The minority became the Marxist-Leninist Communist Party of Greece (M-L KKE). Despite further subsequent splits and the creation of smaller groupings, the two parties, KKE (m-l) and M-L KKE, have remained the major representatives of Maoism in Greece to this day. The student wing of KKE (m-l) was the Progressive All-Student Unionist Camp (PPSP), which was \"less popular [than the mainstream organisations], but still important\" at Greek universities at the time.\n\nIn October 1977, on the eve of the first death anniversary of Mao Zedong, KKE(m-l) co-signed a declaration with the Communist Party of Germany/Marxists–Leninists, Communist Party of Spain (Marxist–Leninist), Communist Party of Italy (Marxist–Leninist) and the Portuguese Communist Party (Reconstructed). The declaration, which was published on the front page of the Albanian daily \"Zëri i Popullit\", rejected the Three Worlds Theory.\n\nKKE (m-l) experienced a crisis in 1982 when the majority of its members left the party. This crisis was caused as a result of both international (death of Mao Zedong, the rebuilding of capitalism in China, etc.) and national events (government of PASOK, etc.). So the members that fighter that crisis created the new KKE (m-l)\n\nOn 16 March 2012, spurred by the ongoing Greek financial crisis, M-L KKE and KKE (m-l) announced that they would jointly contest elections as part of the Popular Resistance - Left Anti-Imperialist Cooperation (Λαϊκή Αντίσταση - Αριστερή Αντιμπεριαλιστική Συνεργασία), distancing themselves both from the traditional Communist Party of Greece (KKE) and the leftist Syriza coalition. KKE(m-l) and MLKKE contested the May 2012 legislative election under the slogan \"Down with the Memorandum of Enslavement- The People don't owe anyone anything\" and fielded 186 candidates across the country.\n\nHistorically, KKE (m-l) has been most active and has supporters in Ioannina, Thessaloniki and northern Greece in general, in Crete, and the Aegean islands of Lesbos and Samos.\n\nKKE (m-l) publishes the biweekly newspaper, \"Proletariaki Simaia\" (Προλεταριακή Σημαία, \"Proletarian Flag\"), founded in early 1967 as one of the newspapers of OMLE.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816612", "title": "Shakira Caine", "text": "Shakira Caine\n\nShakira Baksh, Lady Caine (born 23 February 1947) is a Guyanese former actress and fashion model, and the wife of English actor Michael Caine.\n\nShe was born in British Guiana (present-day Guyana) to Muslim Indian parents Her mother was a dressmaker, and she aspired to follow in her footsteps and became a fashion designer.\n\nWhile working as a secretary, she was urged by her employer to enter the Miss Guyana contest, in which she was the runner-up. At the age of 19, she came in third in the 1967 Miss World contest held in London, where she decided to stay to launch a career in modeling.\nShe is a member of the International Best Dressed List since 1991.\n\nBaksh appeared in several films, including \"Some Girls Do\" (1969), \"Carry On Again Doctor\" (1969), \"Toomorrow\" (1970), \"Son of Dracula\" (1974) and, with her husband, \"The Man Who Would Be King\" (1975). She also appeared in two episodes of the science fiction TV series \"UFO\".\n\nAfter seeing Baksh in a British television advertisement for Maxwell House coffee in 1971, Michael Caine became obsessed with finding the woman he considered to be \"the most beautiful... he had ever seen.\" From a friend in the advertising business, he discovered that she lived only a few miles from him in London. The couple were married in Las Vegas on 8 January 1973, and have one daughter, Natasha.\n\nBaksh is a Muslim, while her husband is a Christian. He reflected to \"The Guardian\" in 2009: \"My wife is a Muslim and she does Muslim stuff; I'm a Christian and I do Christian stuff, and no questions ever come up. The media view of Muslims is different from mine, which is very benign and peaceful.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1816616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816616", "title": "Opaline (album)", "text": "Opaline (album)\n\nOpaline is the third studio album by Dishwalla, released on April 23, 2002 on Immergent Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816619", "title": "International Signal and Control", "text": "International Signal and Control\n\nInternational Signal and Control (ISC) was a U.S. defense contractor based in Lancaster, Pennsylvania that was involved in the manufacture of electronic missile subassemblies, navigation components, fuses, power supplies for proximity fuzes, and grenade technology.\n\nBy the 1980s, ISC's business primarily consisted of illegal arms sales started at the behest of various US clandestine organizations. On paper the company looked to be extremely profitable on sales of high-priced \"above board\" items, but in fact these profits were essentially non-existent. After the sale of the company to Ferranti in 1987 all illegal sales ended immediately, leaving the company with no obvious cash flow, and the merger led to the ultimate collapse of Ferranti in 1991.\n\nOriginally called ESI (Electronic Systems International), the company manufactured sub-assemblies for the AGM-45 Shrike and RIM-7 Sea Sparrow missiles in 1974, and just after the Vietnam war which was part of a standard arms contract for the US defense administration (DCAS). The company also had a commercial repair facility of two meter portable amateur (\"ham\") radios from a company in New Jersey called Clegg, and manufactured communications helmet radios for firemen, and electronic outdoor bug zappers.\n\nISC was involved in two major indiscretions, for which CEO James Guerin received a 15-year prison sentence: \n\nISC was acquired by Ferranti in November 1987. This merger caused the collapse of Ferranti due to the debts of its new subsidiary. Ferranti was eventually broken up and the majority of the defense subsidiaries were purchased by GEC. On October 31, 1991, ISC founder James Guerin, and 18 others were indicted by a Philadelphia Federal Grand Jury on charges of a \"$1.14 Billion Fraud (Ferranti/ISC Merger of November, 1987)\" and the illegal sales of arms to South Africa and Iraq. On December 5, 1991 Guerin pleaded guilty to eight charges including: conspiracy to inflate the accounts of ISC by means of non-existent international contract supported by false paperwork and circular cash transfers; conspiracy to defraud Ferranti shareholders and investors (at the time of merger with ISC in 1987); obtaining finance on fraudulently inflated share values when ISC plc was floated on the London stock exchange in 1982, and money laundering between US, UK and Swiss banks. He was sentenced to a 15-year prison term.\n\nIn 1994, after Bobby Ray Inman requested to be withdrawn from consideration as Bill Clinton's first Defense Secretary, his critics speculated that the decision was motivated by a desire to conceal his links to ISC. Inman was a member of the board of directors of the company, which was allegedly either negligent or approved the exports.\n\nIn 1974, with the knowledge and assistance of US agencies, advanced radar-controlled anti-aircraft systems were shipped to South Africa. South Africa, together with ISC, also developed a sophisticated ground-to-air missile for its own use and for export. All this equipment was restricted US technology requiring export licenses, which were not obtained. James Guerin claimed the company's activities were sanctioned by the US government. Guerin set up a front company with the South African authorities for the US National Security Agency, as part of a US covert operation in 1974. This involved shipping advanced electronic sensors, optics and related equipment to South Africa without licenses so as to set up listening posts to track Soviet submarines off the Cape of Good Hope. The company, Gamma Systems Associates, ordered restricted equipment from ISC, then shipped it on to South Africa on board airliners. The equipment was repackaged and the airline companies given false descriptions of the equipment. The operation ceased to have official sanction in 1977 and the activities were dismantled. \n\nFrom 1984 to 1988, ISC sent South Africa more than $30 million in military-related equipment, including telemetry tracking antennae to collect data from missiles in flight, gyroscopes for guidance systems, and photo-imaging film readers, all of which would form the \"backbone\" of a medium-range missile system. Some of this technology was reportedly transferred to Iraq. Another link to Iraq was the supply of the specifications for the Mk 20 Rockeye II cluster bomb through Chilean defense company Cardoen Industries, which was able to build an almost identical weapon that was subsequently used against coalition forces in the Persian Gulf War of January–February 1991. \n\nThese activities allegedly happened with the knowledge and assistance of U.S. intelligence agencies (including the CIA) and in violation of United States and United Nations sanctions.\n"}
{"id": "1816621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816621", "title": "United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives", "text": "United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives\n\nThe United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives (USFWC) is a federation of worker cooperatives in the United States. USFWC was founded at the U.S. Conference of Democratic Workplaces in Minneapolis, Minnesota in May 2004.\n\nThe Federation was sponsored by The Cooperative Foundation in addition to other cooperative support organizations. It was created partly in response to growing regional organizing among United States worker cooperatives and to foster the sharing of information and resources between national gatherings.\n\nThe membership meets annually. The Federation also holds a biennial conference called The Democracy at Work Conference in conjunction with the annual meeting. The schedule for the meetings/conference is as follows:\n\nThe USFWC has several membership classes:\n\nThe Federation is governed by a nine-member board of directors. The Board oversees the Federation and the Executive Director. <br>\nThe current Board of Directors of the Federation includes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816622", "title": "Cetina", "text": "Cetina\n\nCetina () is a river in southern Croatia. It has a length of and its basin covers an area of . From its source, Cetina descends from an elevation of above sea level to the Adriatic Sea. It is the most water-rich river in Dalmatia.\n\nCetina has its source in the northwestern slopes of Dinara. Rising from a spring at Milasevo near a small village called Cetina, north of Vrlika, it flows to the Adriatic Sea. A large artificial lake begins near Vrlika, the Peruća Lake, which was created by a dam some downstream. Cetina then passes into the lower portion of the Sinj karst field, through the city of Sinj. After that it runs eastward, through the city of Trilj and then back westward around the Mosor mountain, before flowing into the Adriatic in the city of Omiš.\n\nApart from its visible basin, the Cetina also receives a lot of water from the west Bosnian karst field via underground routes. Its lower course begins from the Gubavica Falls, at above sea level, near the village of Zadvarje, from Omiš. Here it leaves its canyon and flows into a valley which has nevertheless retained something of the appearance of a canyon.\n\nThe latter portion of Cetina and its relatively large drop in elevation was used to build several substantial hydroelectric power plants. Its water is also bottled as \"Cetina\".\n\nThe total drainage area of the catchment is around 12,000 km, and the annual discharge is around 105 ms as a consequence of a mean annual rainfall of 1380 mm.\n\nBounded to the east by the Dinaric Alps, which rise to an elevation of , and to the northwest by mountain Svilaja, the majority of the catchment drains calcareous rocks of Cretaceous age, predominantly limestone. Rocks of Triassic and Jurassic age also crop out in the catchment and include dolomitic limestone and flysch. The underlying karst geology controls relief with a series of structurally aligned basins separated by high ridges.\n\nThe Cetina Valley and the narrow passage at Klis have always functioned as a principal trade route between the Croatian coast and hinterland. Strategically, it has been pivotal to the development, not only of the Balkans, but also of significant parts of Europe.\n\nThe earliest evidence for agricultural activity is from the Early Neolithic in the upper part of the valley. In the Early Bronze Age the Cetina culture, a geographically pervasive group with contacts throughout the Adriatic basin, became dominant. Extensive \"mound fields\" are recorded on the lower valley slopes at several locations around Cetina, Vrlika and Bajagić. As in other parts of Europe, the river appears to have been the focus of the intentional deposition of artifacts throughout prehistory. This is particularly true at the confluence of the Cetina and Ruda rivers at Trilj.\n\nThe area is intimately associated with the heartland of the Delmatae and the area's strategic importance is emphasised by the citing of the legionary fortress at Tilurium (Gardun), just above today's city of Trilj, which guards the entrance to the valley from the south and the approach to the provincial capital at Salona.\n\nDuring the early medieval period, toponymic evidence suggests that the Cetina Valley and perhaps the river itself became a frontier between Slavic and Late Roman power. The area around Sinj eventually emerged as a centre of Slavic power and ultimately established itself as a heartland of the Early Croatian State, especially in the areas of its upper flow.\n\nDuring later periods the area was highly contested and passed between a number of regional and local powers before conquest by the Ottoman Empire during the early 16th century. After this it retained a frontier role between Ottoman Empire and Republic of Venice until the reconquest of the area 150 years later.\n\nToday canyon of the river Cetina is very popular among tourists looking for adventure activities like rafting, canyoning, zip-line, rock climbing, kayaking and other outdoor activities.\n"}
{"id": "1816623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816623", "title": "Martin Koppel", "text": "Martin Koppel\n\nMartín Koppel is one of the leaders of the Socialist Workers Party in the United States.\n\nBefore joining the staff of the SWP's paper \"The Militant\" in 1991, he was a steelworker in Chicago and member of the United Steelworkers of America union.\n\nKoppel is a Communist political organizer, a native of Argentina who grew up in the United States. Koppel first became involved in political activism while an exchange student in Marseille, France. The next year, in 1977, he joined the Socialist Workers Party in Baltimore.\n\nHe has been active in defense of the Cuban Revolution, and was a longtime supporter of Puerto Rican independence. Koppel has also traveled extensively in Latin America and the Caribbean to take part in political conferences and meet workers and peasants, from the Movement of Rural Landless Workers in Brazil to working class protests in Argentina, Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, and Grenada.\n\nKoppel is the author of \"Peru's Shining Path: Evolution of a Stalinist Sect\", published by Pathfinder Press in 1994.\n\nIn 2004, Koppel ran for the US Senate seat from New York against Chuck Schumer. He received 14,811 for 0.2 percent of the vote.\n\nIn 2006 Koppel ran for attorney general of New York. He received 10,197 votes, for 0.2 percent of the total vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816625", "title": "Uterine rupture", "text": "Uterine rupture\n\nUterine rupture is when the muscular wall of the uterus tears during pregnancy or childbirth. Symptoms while classically including increased pain, vaginal bleeding, or a change in contractions are not always present. Disability or death of the mother or baby may result.\nRisk factors include vaginal birth after cesarean section (VBAC), other uterine scars, obstructed labor, induction of labor, trauma, and cocaine use. While typically rupture occurs during labor it may occasionally happen earlier in pregnancy. Diagnosis may be suspected based on a rapid drop in the baby's heart rate during labor. Uterine dehiscence is a less severe condition in which there is only incomplete separation of the old scar.\nTreatment involve rapid surgery to control bleeding and delivery of the baby. A hysterectomy may be required to control the bleeding. Blood transfusions may be given to replace blood loss. Women who have had a prior rupture are generally recommended to have C-sections in subsequent pregnancies.\nRates of uterine rupture during vaginal birth following one previous C-section, done by the typical technique, are estimated at 0.9%. Rates are greater among those who have had multiple prior C-sections or an atypical type of C-section. In those who do have uterine scarring, the risk during a vaginal birth is about 1 per 12,000. Risk of death of the baby is about 6%. Those in the developing world appear to be affected more often and have worse outcomes.\n\nSymptoms of a rupture may be initially quite subtle. An old cesarean scar may undergo dehiscence; with further labor the woman may experience abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding, though these signs are difficult to distinguish from normal labor. Often a deterioration of the fetal heart rate is a leading sign, but the cardinal sign of uterine rupture is loss of fetal station on manual vaginal exam. Intra-abdominal bleeding can lead to hypovolemic shock and death. Although the associated maternal mortality is now less than one percent, the fetal mortality rate is between two and six percent when rupture occurs in the hospital.\n\nIn pregnancy uterine rupture may cause a viable abdominal pregnancy. This is what accounts for most abdominal pregnancy births.\n\n\nA uterine scar from a previous cesarean section is the most common risk factor. (In one review, 52% had previous cesarean scars.) Other forms of uterine surgery that result in full-thickness incisions (such as a myomectomy), dysfunctional labor, labor augmentation by oxytocin or prostaglandins, and high parity may also set the stage for uterine rupture. In 2006, an extremely rare case of uterine rupture in a first pregnancy with no risk factors was reported.\n\nUterine rupture during pregnancy without a prior cesarean section is one of the major diagnostic criterion for vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (vEDS).\n\nIn an incomplete rupture the peritoneum is still intact. With a complete rupture the contents of the uterus spill into the peritoneal cavity or the broad ligament.\n\nEmergency exploratory laparotomy with cesarean delivery accompanied by fluid and blood transfusion are indicated for the management of uterine rupture. Depending on the nature of the rupture and the condition of the patient, the uterus may be either repaired or removed (cesarean hysterectomy). Delay in management places both mother and child at significant risk.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816632", "title": "Empire Earth II", "text": "Empire Earth II\n\nEmpire Earth II is a real-time strategy video game developed by Mad Doc Software and published by Vivendi Universal Games on April 26, 2005. It is a sequel to \"Empire Earth\", which was developed by the now-defunct Stainless Steel Studios. The game features 15 epochs, 14 different civilizations and has three playable campaigns: a Korean, German, and American one, as well as several other playable scenarios. The game received a positive reaction, earning a 79% average rating on GameRankings.\n\n\"Empire Earth II\" has several new gameplay features from the original gameplay of \"Empire Earth\", such as the Picture-in-Picture window, a small window within the game interface which allows the player to control activities such as unit and building construction. The Citizen Manager can be configured to tell a citizen what to do if they have no set task, and the Diplomacy System allows the player to make tributes and manage alliances and wars with other players. The War Planner is another new addition, which is a map of the game that the player can display and use to coordinate attacks with allies. The crown system grants strategic bonuses to players who are first to master an epoch's military, economic, or imperial paths at the cost of losing a faster age progression. Weather, another new feature, changes over time on the map and affects the look of the map and performance of units and, in the case of airplanes in thunderstorms, hit points.\n\nBesides campaigns and special scenarios, there is also a skirmish mode where the player can play against a computer player. The player can also play against other human players, however, the common EULA clause that each player needs his own copy of the game is actually enforced, even for LAN games. Unlike campaigns or scenarios, the winning conditions never change. There are eight different game modes in skirmish mode, which can also be played in Multiplayer.\n\nThere are 15 epochs in the game, each representing a part of history. As the player advances through the epochs, new and improved units and structures become available. Some of the epochs in \"Empire Earth II\" are identical to their counterparts in the original \"Empire Earth\"—one exception is that \"Empire Earth II\" does not allow players to expand their empires into space. The epochs are the Stone Age, Copper Age, Bronze Age, Iron Age, Dark Ages, Middle Ages, Renaissance, Imperial Age, Enlightenment Age, Industrial Age, Modern Age, Atomic Age, Digital Age, Genetic Age and Synthetic Age.\n\nBefore buildings and units can be made or created, resources must be gathered. There are two kinds of resources: the main resources and special resources. The main resources are available in all epochs and they are food, wood, gold, and stone. To collect resources, a citizen (or a band of citizens) is selected, and are directed to a resource. The citizens thus begin harvesting it.\n\nThe special resources are available in only some epochs. These special resources are tin—available until epoch 6, iron—first available in epoch 4 and is no longer used after epoch 9, saltpeter—first available in epoch 7 and is used until epoch 12, oil—first available in epoch 10, and uranium—first available epoch 13.\n\n\"Empire Earth II\" has technologies to improve each player's civilization. Technologies are divided into three groups. The first is Military, which provides benefits mostly to military units. The next is Economic technologies, which increases resource gathering rate, decreases cost and building time for units and buildings and decreases tribute tax amount. The final group is Imperial, which provides benefits mostly to special units and increases the health of units and buildings.\n\nThere are four technologies of each group for each epoch. Technologies can be researched by spending tech points. To get tech points, an appropriate number of citizens must be garrisoned in a university and/or an appropriate number of priests must be garrisoned in a temple. Technologies are researched through the main interface (no longer through a building) by clicking the Technology Tree button. When the correct amount of tech points are available, the tech tree button will light up and new technology to research can be chosen. However, when research is no longer used (at the highest epoch specified before starting a game), the garrisoned units will become idle.\n\nIn \"Empire Earth II\", each civilization belongs to a particular world region, each having its own regional powers. These can be activated on the game interface by clicking on a crown in the top right corner. All of the regional powers are timed; once the time is up to use it, it takes a long time for the regional powers to be recharged to use again. Each regional power can only be used in a respective group of epochs. For example, the regional power of Overtime can only be used by a player using a Far Eastern civilization in epochs 11-15.\n\nLike many games before it in the same genre, \"Empire Earth II\" has civilizations for players to lead to greatness. Each civilization has a unique power, giving it an advantage in a particular field. Each civilization also has a unique unit, which is a more powerful version of a given unit type. The Greek Hoplite, for instance, is a more effective heavy infantry than the other tribes' counterparts. The western civilizations are the Americans, British, Germans, Greeks, and the Romans. The Middle Eastern civilizations are the Babylonians, Egyptians, and the Turks. The Far Eastern civilizations are China, Japan, and Korea. Finally, the Meso-American civilizations are the Aztecs, Incas, and the Mayans.\n\n\"Empire Earth II\" contains three single-player campaigns, a collection of scenarios called \"turning points\" and a tutorial campaign. The tutorial campaign features the Aztecs, featuring four scenarios to allow players to learn the gameplay. The first scenario is about the founding of the city of Tenochtitlan, followed by a scenario about the Spanish conquest of Mexico, which ends with the Aztecs driving out Hernán Cortés and his Conquistadors. These scenarios are followed by ones about an Aztec alliance with the United States and a war with the Incas, occurring before World War II.\n\nThe Korean campaign is about early Korean history, from 2333 BC to 676 AD, divided into eight scenarios. The first two scenarios are about the founding of the state of Gojoseon and its first contacts with other Korean states and China, followed by scenarios about Korea's first wars with the Chinese and other Korean states. The next scenarios follow the Korean civil war and the state of Silla's decision to ally with China, and its eventual conquest over the other Korean states. The last scenario for this campaign is the final war with China.\n\nThe German Campaign deals with the years between 1220 and 1871 in central Europe. The first four scenarios are about the struggles of the Teutonic Order and the knights' eventual downfall. The next two scenarios are about the rise of Prussia and the Seven Years' War. The next scenario is about the war with Napoleon I of France. The final scenario is about the war with Denmark, Austria and France and the unification of Germany under Otto von Bismarck.\n\nThe American Campaign is part-fact and part-fiction, set between 1898 and 2070. The first scenario is about the Spanish–American War in Cuba, followed by one about the Meuse-Argonne Offensive in World War I. The scenarios are about World War II, featuring the North African Campaign and a fictionalized version of the Ardennes Offensive. These are followed by Cold War spy missions against the Soviet Union. The next scenarios are fictionalized, about an attempted coup led by a disillusioned General Charles Blackworth against the US government; the player is charged with stopping this coup, eventually engaging Blackworth and his followers in the Amazon Rainforest. When the player wins the last scenario in this campaign, there is a short film about mankind and the Earth. When that film ends, the credits for the game are shown.\n\nThere are four special scenarios in Empire Earth II called turning points. These scenarios can be played from either side of a battle or war which changed the course of history. The Normandy scenario takes place during the D-Day invasion, where the player can play as the Allies to repeat the success of Operation Overlord, or play as the Germans to stop the Allied invasion force from breaching the Atlantic Wall. The Three Kingdoms recreates the period after the end of the Han Dynasty, where the player can play as the Kingdom of Wei or the Wu Kingdom, either winning historically as the Wei or changing history as the Wu.\n\n\"Empire Earth II\" was developed by Mad Doc Software as a sequel to the 2001 game \"Empire Earth\" and published by Vivendi Universal Games on April 26, 2005.\n\nAn expansion pack, which was released by Mad Doc Software called \"\", was released on February 14, 2006.\n\nThe Multiplayer servers by GameSpy were taken offline on October 10, 2012.\n\nAfter the end of the official support the game's community tried to take over the support and produced unofficial patches which are still updated. Among other things, the unofficial patch supports all possible screen resolutions, fixes maximization problems on Windows 8 / 8.1 / 10 and enabled DirectX 9 support to fix problems with only integrated graphics card being detected on Nvidia Optimus laptop under Windows 10. On 16 October 2015, Dr.MonaLisa (the creator of Unofficial Patches) released Unofficial Version 1.5.5 which brings back the old Multiplayer Lobby, which is now hosted on a new server.\n\n\"Empire Earth II\" garnered generally positive reviews, and holds an average of 79% on aggregate web site GameRankings. The game also scored 8.9 out of 10 by IGN, and 8.0 by GameSpot. Shortly after the game's release, it was generally complimented for good gameplay and the options players had to customize the game.\" Criticisms of the game included high system requirements, issues with unit pathfinding, modest graphics, a poor unit counter system, a clunky, complicated, almost non-existent mission editor, and the increased complexity caused by the new game features.\" Others included poor in-game music and few terrain types.\n\n\"Empire Earth II\" was a finalist for \"PC Gamer US\"s \"Best Real-Time Strategy Game 2005\" award, which ultimately went to \"Age of Empires III\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816636", "title": "Grothendieck's relative point of view", "text": "Grothendieck's relative point of view\n\nGrothendieck's relative point of view is a heuristic applied in certain abstract mathematical situations, with a rough meaning of taking for consideration families of 'objects' explicitly depending on parameters, as the basic field of study, rather than a single such object. It is named after Alexander Grothendieck, who made extensive use of it in treating foundational aspects of algebraic geometry. Outside that field, it has been influential particularly on category theory and categorical logic.\n\nIn the usual formulation, the language of category theory is applied, to describe the point of view as treating, not objects \"X\" of a given category \"C\" as such, but morphisms\n\nwhere \"S\" is a fixed object. This idea is made formal in the idea of the slice category of objects of \"C\" 'above' S. To move from one slice to another requires a base change; from a technical point of view base change becomes a major issue for the whole approach (see for example Beck–Chevalley conditions).\n\nA base change 'along' a given morphism\n\nis typically given by the fiber product, producing an object over \"T\" from one over \"S\". The 'fiber' terminology is significant: the underlying heuristic is that \"X\" over \"S\" is a family of fibers, one for each 'point' of \"S\"; the fiber product is then the family on \"T\", which described by fibers is for each point of \"T\" the fiber at its image in \"S\". This set-theoretic language is too naïve to fit the required context, certainly, from algebraic geometry. It combines, though, with the use of the Yoneda lemma to replace the 'point' idea with that of treating an object, such as \"S\", as 'as good as' the representable functor it sets up.\n\nThe Grothendieck–Riemann–Roch theorem from about 1956 is usually cited as the key moment for the introduction of this circle of ideas. The more classical types of Riemann–Roch theorem are recovered in the case where \"S\" is a single point (i.e. the final object in the working category \"C\"). Using other \"S\" is a way to have versions of theorems 'with parameters', i.e. allowing for continuous variation, for which the 'frozen' version reduces the parameters to constants.\n\nIn other applications, this way of thinking has been used in topos theory, to clarify the role of set theory in foundational matters. Assuming that we don’t have a commitment to one 'set theory' (all toposes are in some sense equally set theories for some intuitionistic logic) it is possible to state everything relative to some given set theory that acts as a base topos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816645", "title": "International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (Unity &amp; Struggle)", "text": "International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (Unity &amp; Struggle)\n\nThe International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (ICMLPO) is an international network of Hoxhaist, Marxist-Leninist communist parties that uphold the line of Albanian leader Enver Hoxha and the Party of Labour of Albania. It is therefore part of the tendency within Marxist-Leninist politics known as anti-revisionism.\n\nIt is known as the International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (Unity & Struggle), or International Conference of Marxist-Leninist Parties and Organizations (Hoxhaist) to distinguish it from the organization of the same name which espouses Maoism, the International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations (International Newsletter) or International Conference of Marxist-Leninist Parties and Organizations (Maoist).\n\nThe ICMLPO holds a general conference once a year as well as holding regional meetings in Europe and Latin America. The latest conference took place in Mexico in November of 2018.\n\nThe theoretical organ of the Conference, \"Unity & Struggle\", is published every 6 months in many languages.\n"}
{"id": "1816653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816653", "title": "Never Can Say Goodbye", "text": "Never Can Say Goodbye\n\n\"Never Can Say Goodbye\" is a song written by Clifton Davis and originally recorded by The Jackson 5. The song was originally written and intended for the Supremes, however, Motown decided it would be better for the Jackson 5. It was the first single released from the group's 1971 album \"Maybe Tomorrow\", and was one of the group's most successful records. It has been covered numerous times, most notably in 1974 by Gloria Gaynor and in 1987 by British pop group The Communards.\n\nThe recording features 12-year-old Michael Jackson singing a serious song about a love, with accompaniment from his brothers. Although such a record was unusual for a teenage group, \"Never Can Say Goodbye\" was a number-two hit for three consecutive weeks on the \"Billboard\" Pop Singles chart, stuck behind Three Dog Night's \"Joy to the World\" (May 8 – May 22, 1971), and a number-one hit on the \"Billboard\" Black Singles chart in the United States. In the United Kingdom, it reached number 33 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nNotable televised performances of the song by the Jackson 5 (and their newer incarnation, The Jacksons) include:\n\nIn addition, the song appeared on the animated TV show \"The Jackson 5ive\" in the episode \"A Rare Pearl\", which aired on January 15, 1972.\n\nThis version appears in the 1994 movie \"Crooklyn\" and on the second volume of its soundtrack album.\n\nA second major version, re-imagined as a disco record by Gloria Gaynor in 1974, was a number-nine hit on the U.S. Pop Singles chart and went to number 34 on the Soul Singles chart. The Gloria Gaynor version became one of the defining recordings of the disco era. Indeed, her version peaked at number two in the United Kingdom during January 1975, and number three in Canada, surpassing the Jackson Five's original recording in those nations.\n\nGaynor's cover, released on MGM records, was produced by the Disco Corporation of America, a production company newly formed by Meco Monardo and Tony Bongiovi to which Gaynor was signed. Also working on this production were Jay Ellis and Harold Wheeler.\n\nGaynor's cover has the distinction of occupying the number-one spot on the first Dance/Disco chart to appear in \"Billboard\" magazine. \"Never Can Say Goodbye\" was also the title of Gaynor's debut album on which the single appeared.\n\nGaynor has re-recorded the song on more than one occasion, in increasingly fast tempos, and subsequent remixes have hit the dance charts.\n\nGaynor's version of the song was heard on the TV series \"Charmed\" (\"That '70s Episode\"), and is featured on the video game series \"Just Dance 2015\".\n\nIn 1987, British band The Communards had a hit with a Hi-NRG cover of the song, which was featured on their second album, \"Red\".\n\nTheir version reached number one in Spain and number two in Ireland, number four number the UK Singles Chart, 51 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, and peaked atnumber two on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance/Disco chart in the U.S. The group had reached number one on those charts covering another 1970s classic, \"Don't Leave Me This Way\", in 1986. The cover was also a top 10 hit in several European countries and New Zealand.\n\nA music video was produced for this version of the song, directed by Andy Morahan.\n\nThe Communards version of the song was used as the signature tune to the 2013 British comedy series \"Vicious\".\n\nIsaac Hayes first recorded the song for his 1971 album \"Black Moses\". Released as a single, this version reached number five on the \"Billboard\" R&B chart, number 19 on the Easy Listening chart, and number 22 on the Hot 100. Hayes re-recorded the tune for the soundtrack of the 2008 film \"Soul Men\", in which he appears alongside Samuel L. Jackson and Bernie Mac. The film's producers dedicated the 2008 version to Mac and Hayes, who both died before the project was released.\n\nOther artists who have covered the song include:\n\nWestlife have performed the song live. Frank Ocean covered this song as a medley with \"Close To You\" during his Blonde Tour in Summer 2017.\n\n\nDianna Agron covered the song in 2012 during the eleventh episode of the third season of the American musical television series \"Glee\", entitled \"Michael\". The performance received mostly positive reviews. Jen Chaney of \"The Washington Post\" gave the song a \"B−\", and said it \"worked much better than every track that preceded it\" because it adapted the song to the show \"instead of trying to out-Jackson Jackson\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" Joseph Brannigan Lynch called it \"a nice summation of her character's journey, but not vocally impressive enough to justify listening to outside of the episode\" and gave it a \"B\". Crystal Bell of \"HuffPost TV\" described it as a \"blah performance\", but Kate Stanhope of \"TV Guide\" said it was \"sweet and reflective\". Erica Futterman of \"Rolling Stone\" wrote that it was \"a tune well-suited for Quinn's sultry voice and the flipped meaning she gives the lyrics\", and \"TVLine\" Michael Slezak had a similar take: he gave it an \"A\" and called it a \"remarkably lovely fit\" for her voice.\n\nThe Neptunes remixed \"Never Can Say Goodbye\" on the 2009 Michael Jackson remix album \"The Remix Suite\".\n\nAstro rapped over the song on a 2011 episode of \"The X Factor USA\".\n\nIn 2012, Wu-Tang Clan rapper Raekwon released his cover version of the song in which he raps over the instrumental.\n\nWhile appearing on \"The Hollywood Squares\" Clifton Davis sang a bit of the song \"a capella\" and then was asked who wrote the song. His answer was \"I did\" to which the contestant agreed (and was correct).\n\n\n\"Never Can Say Goodbye\" was originally copyrighted on June 10, 1970 [EU0000187089] and then was copyrighted again on December 21, 1970 [EP0000281027].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816658", "title": "USS Burns (DD-588)", "text": "USS Burns (DD-588)\n\nUSS \"Burns\" (DD-588), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Captain Hugh Otway Burns (1775–1850), a privateer in the War of 1812.\n\n\"Hugh Burns\" was launched 8 August 1942 by Charleston Navy Yard; sponsored by Mrs. Harry L. Smith, great-granddaughter of Captain Hugh Burns; and commissioned 3 April 1943, Commander D.T. Eller in command.\n\n\"Burns\" arrived at Pearl Harbor 17 September 1943 and after a few weeks of training, embarked upon an outstanding World War II career. Between October 1943 and July 1945, with the exception of a stateside yard period (February–April 1945), \"Burns\" participated in the following operations, acting as anti-submarine escort, picket ship, fighter director ship, and aircraft rescue ship:\n\nOn 30 January 1944, after picking up three downed American aviators, \"Burns\" was off Ujae Atoll en route to rejoin her task group when she came upon a small Japanese convoy. During the ensuing 34-minute battle she succeeded in sinking all four Japanese vessels, a small cargo ship, a medium tanker, and two small, either cargo or escort, ships.\n\nShortly thereafter \"Burns\", as a unit of Task Group 50.9 (TG 50.9), took part in a surface action off Truk, Caroline Islands (17 February 1944). She assisted in sinking at 07°45' N. 151°20' E., and a trawler before being ordered to track down and dispose of the , which was accomplished at 1655 in 07°24' N., 150°30' E. Six Japanese survivors were rescued.\n\nAfter the cessation of hostilities \"Burns\" remained in the Far East on occupation duty until December 1945. During this period she operated in the Yellow Sea supporting the occupation of Korea and China. She departed the Western Pacific 29 December 1945 and arrived at San Francisco 8 January 1946. She then reported to the 19th Fleet for inactivation and was placed out of commission in reserve 25 June 1946 at San Diego.\n\n\"Burns\" was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register 1 November 1972, and sunk as a target 20 June 1974.\n\n\"Burns\" received 11 battle stars for her World War II service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816661", "title": "Mötley Crüe (album)", "text": "Mötley Crüe (album)\n\nMötley Crüe is the self-titled sixth studio album by American hard rock band of the same name. It was released on March 15, 1994, and is the only album that does not feature lead singer Vince Neil, who had departed from the band in 1992. Neil was replaced by ex-The Scream vocalist John Corabi. It is also their last to be produced by Bob Rock.\n\nThe album, which was recorded under the working title of \"Til Death Do Us Part\", was the first release by the band after signing a 25-million dollar contract with Elektra Records. The album alienated much of the band's fanbase due to its heavier sound and the absence of Neil, with many fans believing that the album was not Mötley Crüe. It was also a huge commercial failure. At 60 minutes in length, it is the band's longest album to date. Ever since Neil returned to the band in 1996, all songs from this album have been left off of the band's concert setlists.\n\nFollowing the success of the \"Dr. Feelgood\" and \"Decade of Decadence\" albums and tours, the members of Mötley Crüe were tired and needed to take a break from the non-stop pressures of the road. Instead of being given a break, the band, then consisting of singer Vince Neil, bassist Nikki Sixx, guitarist Mick Mars, and drummer Tommy Lee, had returned to the studio to begin work on the follow-up album to their 1989 album \"Dr. Feelgood\" on a two-week-on, two-week-off schedule. While working on new material in the studio in early 1992, Sixx, Mars and Lee had a falling out with Neil that led to the singer quitting or being fired from the band, effectively leaving Mötley Crüe without a frontman.\n\nMeanwhile, John Corabi was the vocalist of the Los Angeles-based hard rock band The Scream when he read an interview that featured Sixx in an issue of \"Spin\" magazine. In the interview, Corabi found out that Sixx was a big fan of The Scream's first record, \"Let It Scream\". Corabi wanted to get in contact with Sixx and thank him for the compliment, as well as possibly opening the door for collaborating with Sixx on material for the next Scream album, so he had his manager get the number to Mötley Crüe's manager, Doug Thaler. After speaking to Thaler's secretary, Corabi was told to leave his phone number so that Sixx could get in contact with him. Not thinking much of it, Corabi left his number and continued with his responsibilities with The Scream.\n\nAfter receiving a phone call from Sixx and Lee, where they informed Corabi that Neil was no longer in the band, he was invited to audition. After a couple of sessions, the band told Corabi that he was their choice for Neil's replacement, but told him to keep quiet about it until they were able to work out some pending legal technicalities, as Elektra Records could have possibly reneged on the band's new contract if the label knew Neil was gone.\n\nFor the recording of the album, Mötley Crüe reunited with Bob Rock, who had produced \"Dr. Feelgood\", their most commercially successful album. With Corabi now fronting the band, the members took advantage of the fact that he brought more to the table than Neil did: Sixx had never worked with another lyricist before, and Mars had never played with another guitarist. Mars noted that working with a second guitarist gave him \"a chance to experiment and have some fun instead of having to focus on just keeping the rhythm.\" Also, the band had never previously written songs through jamming. One of the first songs Corabi worked with the band on was \"Hammered\", as well as the acoustic portion of the song that would become \"Misunderstood.\"\n\nDuring the recording of the album the band committed itself to sobriety, with a strict regimen of no drugs, alcohol, cigarettes, red meat or caffeine. The band worked with a physical trainer each morning, and took vitamin pills to keep their bodies nourished. Although there were occasional slips off the wagon, the members were determined to repeat the success of \"Dr. Feelgood\". The recording sessions proved to be fruitful, with a total of 24 songs written and recorded over the 10-month recording span.\n\nLyrically, Corabi's influence pushed away from the band's usual themes of sex and rebellion. Sixx enjoyed working with Corabi on the lyrics, feeling Corabi’s \"normal\" lyrics balanced out his own \"demented\" lyrics. Songs such as \"Power to the Music\" and \"Droppin' Like Flies\" were attempts at introspection and commentary on the state of the world, including then current events such as the 1992 Los Angeles riots, and the battle over music censorship. The song \"Uncle Jack\" was about Corabi's uncle, a convicted child molester, and \"Misunderstood\" was a song about people who were trying to deal with the fact that life had passed them by. Some songs still had more familiar themes, including \"Smoke the Sky,\" which was about marijuana use, and \"Poison Apples\", which was about the decadent Rock 'N Roll lifestyle that the band was famous for living.\n\nThe album drew influence from contemporary grunge bands such as Pearl Jam and Soundgarden, and is considered alternative metal. The album also had a more aggressive and abrasive sound than the band's previous releases.\n\nThere are two different versions of the cover, which features the band's name on a scratched black background. One version features the band name colored red and the other colored yellow (which is shown above). Both versions were released simultaneously. On the inside, the CD tray features a white circle showing a fist with the word \"CRUE\" on its fingers emerging from a black circle with an open space on the right side. The CD shows the same thing but drawn differently. Some editions have the CD showing the circle and fist drawn the same way as on the inlay. The back of the booklet shows part of the word \"Listen\" which is either colored red or yellow, depending on the version. The red version of the album is more common, as the yellow version is currently out of print.\n\n\"Mötley Crüe\" debuted at No. 7 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and was certified Gold by the RIAA on May 3, 1994. However, five years had passed since Mötley had released a full studio album, and much had changed in popular music. Grunge and alternative rock had crossed into the mainstream, and many hard rock and glam metal acts from the 1980s struggled to generate sales. After charting in the Top 10, the album slid down quickly and ultimately failed to sell as well as previous Mötley albums.\n\n\"I've never heard that album,\" Neil claimed in 2000. \"I just had no interest. It was a direction that I didn't agree with.\"\n\nWhile there was an expected backlash from fans toward the album after the popular Neil's departure, other factors contributed to the poor sales. Besides the aforementioned shift in popular music, the band fell out with MTV: Sixx threatened to knock the host's teeth out during an interview, as he felt the line of questioning was \"stupid\". He and the rest of the band walked out mid-interview. Executives from the Elektra and Warner Bros. labels weren't supporting the band either, as many executives prioritised boardroom wars related to the CEO change of Bob Krasnow to Sylvia Rhone. With no support from their label, and no promotion from MTV following the disastrous interview, the subsequent tour was scaled back from stadiums and arenas to theaters to clubs until it was eventually cancelled.\n\n\"Mötley Crüe\" received mixed reviews. In general, critics remarked how the band had adapted their trademark sound to the new trends of grunge and alternative metal. According to Neil Arnold of \"Metal Forces\", this change of style misrepresents the band, which maybe \"should have gone under a different name\" for this album. New vocalist John Corabi's vocal range and soulful performance are generally praised, as they are more suited to the new sound of the band. For Katherine Turman of \"The Los Angeles Times\" his \"voice is meatier and more appealing than predecessor Vince Neil's\" and may be responsible for the shift in focus towards a less flashy style. However, Arion Berger of \"Rolling Stone\" defined the music \"samey\", while Chuck Eddy in his review for \"Entertainment Weekly\" appreciated the ballads, but called the album's heavy tracks \"an overbearing plod\".\n\nIn July 2014, \"Guitar World\" ranked \"Mötley Crüe\" at number 25 in their \"Superunknown: 50 Iconic Albums That Defined 1994\" list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816670", "title": "Baeda Maryam I", "text": "Baeda Maryam I\n\nBaeda Maryam I (; \"He who is in the Hand of Mary,\" modern ) (1448 – November 8, 1478) was Emperor () (August 26, 1468 – November 8, 1478) of Ethiopia, and a member of the Solomonic dynasty.\n\nBorn at Debre Berhan, he was the son of Zara Yaqob by Seyon Mogesa.\n\nTowards the end of Zara Yaqob's life, the Emperor became increasingly convinced that members of his family were plotting against him, and had several of them beaten. Baeda Maryam I's mother died from this mistreatment in 1462, and Baeda Maryam I buried her in secret in the church of Maqdesa Maryam, near Debre Berhan, and donated incense and other gifts to support the church. Zara Yaqob then directed his anger at Baeda Maryam I, until members of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church repaired the rift between the two, and Zara Yaqob publicly designated Baeda Maryam I as his successor.\n\nWith his own mother dead, Baeda Maryam I gave Eleni, a wife of his father, the title of Queen Mother. She proved to be an effective member of the royal family, and Paul B. Henze comments that she \"was practically co-monarch\" during his reign. However, Edward Ullendorff notes Baeda Maryam I was unable to hold together the far-flung empire his father left him: \"some of the outlying provinces recently conquered began to grow restive; the feudal lords whom Zar'a Ya'qob had only ephemerally brought under central control reasserted their regional authority; and the senior clergy relapsed into some of the old-established ways of conduct and ecclesiastical organization.\"\n\nEmperor Baeda Maryam I conducted a campaign against the Dobe'a early in his reign, but they had fled with their cattle, camels, and he was unable to track down any of them. He subsequently rode into the area himself, but the Dobe'a recognized him from a distance and were able to flee, their possessions already having been evacuated. At this point, the \"Dankalé,\" the ruler of the Danakil (better known as the Afar), offered to intervene and help in the Emperor's campaign. He sent the Emperor a horse, a mule laden with dates, a shield, and two spears to show his support, along with a message saying, \"I have set up my camp, O my master, with the intention of stopping these people. If they are your enemies, I will not let them pass, and will seize them.\" Ba'eda Maryam sent his men against the Dobe'a again, but his men were defeated and suffered heavy casualties. Ba'eda Maryam was by this point infuriated, criticizing his soldiers for attacking without orders and stating his determination to remain in the Dobe'a country until he had subdued the country to the point where he could sow grain there and his horses could eats its crop.\n\nThe Emperor then dispatched Jan Zeg, the Garad (governor) of Bale, in a campaign in the region of Gam, where the Garad was killed. Cholera (or some other pestilence) broke out among his men, depressing him further, resulting in his withdrawal to Tigray. There he called upon one of his best fighting regiments, Jan Amora (\"Royal Eagle\"), after which the sub-province and woreda were named, who were eager to participate in the campaign. The twelve Dobe'a leaders learned of the new attack being prepared, and began to flee in various directions into the lowlands of Adal with their women, children, and cattle, with their property loaded on their camels and other beasts of burden. The Emperor heard of their plans, however, and mounted another campaign against Dobe'as, sending the governors of Tigray, Qeda and Damot to pursue them. This new campaign was successful, resulting in the capture of many cattle and the deaths of many Dobe'a, both in the main attack and the following pursuit.\n\nAfter this defeat, many of the Dobe'a converted to Christianity and begged the Emperor for his pardon. The Emperor in turn returned their cattle, supplementing it with others from the southern provinces of Wej and Genz and stationed soldiers in their country. He further built a church in Dobe'a country dedicated to the Virgin Mary and planted orange trees, lemon trees, and vines in the area, in fulfillment of his earlier declaration. Ba'eda Maryam soon returned to the Dobe'a country and appointed governors and \"regulated the social condition of the people,\" as well as encouraging the celebration of the death of the Virgin Mary every January, upon which occasion he distributed bread, tela (beer), and tej (a type of honey wine or mead) to the people. He further ordered that the Dobe'a become cultivators, as opposed to bandits and left the country for the last time.\n\nBaeda Maryam I moved his court to the Gurage country, using it as a base for campaigns in \nDawaro and Bale. His constant campaigning led to a peace treaty with Sultan Muhammad of Adal, the son of Badlay ibn Sa'ad ad-Din, and used the peace it brought to his southern borders to successfully campaign against the restive Falasha in his northern territories. But on Muhammad's death, war with Adal flared up once again.\n\nBaeda Maryam I died at Abasi Wera Gabayi of a sudden illness, but he was buried in a tomb at Atronsa Maryam, a church he had built in the area between the Abay and Jamma rivers. This church was later notable for its painting of Mary and Christ by the artist Brancaleon, a Venetian who had come to live in Ethiopia. His tomb was later destroyed in an Oromo raid in 1709, when they sacked the church, enslaved or killed all of the people present, and hurled the coffin of Baeda Maryam I over the nearby cliffs. The explorer Richard Burton records the contrary story that on his deathbed, Baeda Maryam I ordered that his body be buried so his face looked towards Adal, \"upon whose subjugation the energies of ten years had been vainly expended.\"\n"}
{"id": "1816680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816680", "title": "Charles Koechlin", "text": "Charles Koechlin\n\nCharles Koechlin, baptized Charles-Louis-Eugène Koechlin (; 27 November 186731 December 1950), was a French composer, teacher and writer on music. He was a political radical all his life and a passionate enthusiast for such diverse things as medieval music, \"The Jungle Book\" of Rudyard Kipling, Johann Sebastian Bach, film stars (especially Lilian Harvey and Ginger Rogers), traveling, stereoscopic photography and socialism. He once said: \"The artist needs an ivory tower, not as an escape from the world, but as a place where he can view the world and be himself. This tower is for the artist like a lighthouse shining out across the world.\"\n\nKoechlin was born in Paris, and was the youngest child of a large family. His mother's family came from Alsace and he identified with that region; his maternal grandfather had been the noted philanthropist and textile manufacturer Jean Dollfus, and Koechlin inherited his strongly developed social conscience. His father died when he was 14. Despite an early interest in music, his family wanted him to become an engineer. He entered the École Polytechnique in 1887 but the following year was diagnosed with tuberculosis and had to spend six months recuperating in Algeria. He ended up having to do his first year at the École over again and graduated with only mediocre grades. After a struggle with his family and private lessons with Charles Lefebvre he entered the Paris Conservatoire in 1890 studying first with Antoine Taudou for harmony. In 1892 he started studying composition with Massenet, fugue and counterpoint with André Gedalge, and music history with Louis Bourgault-Ducoudray. His fellow students included George Enescu, Ernest Le Grand, Reynaldo Hahn, Max d'Ollone, Henri Rabaud, and Florent Schmitt. From 1896 he was a student of Gabriel Fauré, along with Ravel and Jean Roger-Ducasse. Fauré had a big influence on Koechlin, wrote the first Fauré biography (1927) which is still referred to. In 1898 a grateful Koechlin orchestrated the popular suite from Fauré's \"Pelléas et Mélisande\" and in 1900 assisted Fauré in producing the huge open-air drama \"Promethée.\"\n\nAfter his graduation Koechlin became a freelance composer and teacher. He married Suzanne Pierrard in 1903. They had five children. Their son Yves later married Paul Langevin's granddaughter Noémie. Beginning in 1921 he regularly corresponded with Catherine Murphy Urner, a former student of his who lived in California. In 1909 he began regular work as a critic for the \"Chronique des Arts\" and in 1910 was one of the founders, with Ravel, of the Société musicale indépendante, with whose activities he was intensely associated. From its inception in the early 1930s to his death he was a passionate supporter of the International Society for Contemporary Music, eventually becoming President of its French section. From 1937 he was elected President of the Fédération Musicale Populaire. At first comfortably off, he divided his time between Paris and country homes in Villers-sur-Mer and the Côte d'Azur, but after the onset of World War I his circumstances were gradually reduced; he had to sell one of his houses and in 1915 began working as a lecturer and teacher. Partly because of his constant advocacy of younger composers and new styles, he was never successful in his attempts to gain a permanent teaching position for himself, though he was an examiner for many institutions (e.g. the Conservatoires of Brussels, Rheims and Marseilles). His application to be professor of counterpoint and fugue at the Paris Conservatoire in 1926 was rejected 20 votes to 2 (the two being Albert Roussel and Maurice Emmanuel), but from 1935 to 1939 he was allowed to teach fugue and modal polyphony at the Schola Cantorum.\n\nHe visited the US four times to lecture and teach in 1918-19, 1928, 1929 and 1937. On the second and third visits he taught at the University of California, Berkeley, through arrangements made by Catherine Murphy Urner, who afterward lived with him until 1933. On the 1929 visit his symphonic poem \"La Joie païenne\" won the Hollywood Bowl Prize for Composition and was performed there under the baton of Eugene Goossens. Even so, Koechlin had to pay for the preparation of orchestral parts, and in the 1930s he sank most of his savings into organizing performances of some of his orchestral works. In the 1940s, however, the music department of Belgian Radio took up his cause and broadcast several premieres of important scores including the first complete performance of the \"Jungle Book\" cycle. He died aged 83 at his country home at Le Canadel, Var, and his body is buried there. Some of his papers are housed at the University of California at Berkeley Library, donated by Catherine Urmer's husband Charles Rollins Shatto. In 1940, the French government offered him the award of Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur, but he refused it.\n\nKoechlin was enormously prolific, as the worklist below (by no means exhaustive) suggests. He was highly eclectic in inspiration (nature, the mysterious orient, French folksong, Bachian chorale, Hellenistic culture, astronomy, Hollywood movies, etc.) and musical technique, but the expressive core of his language remained distinct from his contemporaries. At the start of his career he concentrated on songs with orchestral accompaniment, few of which were performed as intended during his lifetime. A recent (2006) recording of a selection (Hänssler Classic CD93.159) shows he was already master of an individual impressionism deriving less from Debussy than from Berlioz and Fauré. Thereafter he concentrated on symphonic poems, chamber and instrumental works.\n\nAfter World War I his continuing devotion to the symphonic poem and the large orchestra at a period when neoclassicism and small ensembles were more fashionable may have discouraged performance and acceptance of his works. His compositions include the four symphonic poems and three orchestral songs making up \"Livre de la jungle\" after Rudyard Kipling; many other symphonic poems including \"Le Buisson Ardent\" after Romain Rolland (this is a diptych of two orchestral poems, performable separately) and \"Le Docteur Fabricius\" after a novel by his uncle Charles Dollfus; three string quartets; five symphonies including a \"Seven Stars Symphony\" inspired by Hollywood; sonatas for flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, horn, violin, viola and cello, and much other chamber music; many songs, over two hundred opus numbers in all; and a vast number of monodies, fugal studies, chorale harmonizations and other educational pieces. Many works remain unpublished, however.\n\nHe wrote in several styles, sometimes severe Baroque counterpoint, as in the fugue that opens his Second Symphony sometimes \"impressionistically\" as in the tone poem \"Au Loin\", or, as in the Symphony No. 2's scherzo, yet more astringently. He could go from extreme simplicity to extreme complexity of texture and harmony from work to work, or within the same work. Some of his most characteristic effects come from a very static treatment of harmony, savouring the effect of, for instance, a stacked-up series of fifths through the whole gamut of the instruments. His melodies are often long, asymmetrical and wide-ranging in tessitura. He was closely interested in the works of Schoenberg, some of which he quoted from memory in his treatise on Orchestration. The twelve tone technique is one of the several modern music styles parodied in the 'Jungle Book' symphonic poem \"Les Bandar-Log\", but Koechlin also wrote a few pieces in what he described as the 'style atonal-sériel'. He was fascinated by the movies and wrote many 'imaginary' film scores and works dedicated to the Anglo-German actress Lilian Harvey, with whom he was infatuated. His \"Seven Stars Symphony\" features movements inspired by Douglas Fairbanks, Lilian Harvey, Greta Garbo, Clara Bow, Marlene Dietrich, Emil Jannings and Charlie Chaplin in some of their most famous film roles. He also composed an \"Epitaph for Jean Harlow\" and a suite of dances for Ginger Rogers. He was interested in using unusual instruments, notably the saxophone and the early electronic instrument the Ondes Martenot. One movement of the Second Symphony requires four of them (and has not usually been included in the few performances of the work, for that reason). He also wrote several pieces for the hunting-horn, an instrument he himself played. Koechlin orchestrated several pieces by other composers. In addition to the Fauré \"Pelléas et Mélisande\" (suite mentioned above), he orchestrated the bulk of Claude Debussy's 'legende dansée' \"Khamma\" under the composer's direction, from the piano score , and orchestrated Cole Porter's ballet \"Within the Quota\"; other works he transcribed include Schubert's \"Wanderer Fantasy\" and Chabrier's \"Bourrée fantasque.\"\n\nKoechlin began assisting Fauré in teaching fugue and counterpoint while he was still a student in the 1890s, but though he taught privately and was an external examiner for the Paris Conservatoire throughout his career, he never occupied a permanent salaried teaching position. Composers who studied with him included Germaine Tailleferre, Roger Désormière, Francis Poulenc and Henri Sauguet. Cole Porter studied orchestration with him in 1923–24. Darius Milhaud, though never a pupil, became a close friend and considered he learned more from Koechlin than any other pedagogue. Koechlin wrote three compendious textbooks: one on Harmony (3 vols, 1923–26), one on Music Theory (1932–34) and a huge treatise on the subject of orchestration (4 vols, 1935–43) which is a classic treatment of the subject. Koechlin’s treatise uses examples from the orchestral repertoire of the late 19th and early 20th Centuries, in particular including examples form French composers, such as Saint-Saens, Debussy, Chabrier, Bizet, Fauré, Ravel, and Koechlin himself.\nDebussy chose Koechlin to complete the orchestration of his ballet \"Khamma\". Koechlin completed this in 1913.\nKoechlin also wrote a number of smaller didactic works, as well as the life of Fauré mentioned above.\n\nDespite his lack of worldly success, Koechlin was apparently a loved and venerated figure in French music, with his long flowing beard contributing to his patriarchal image. Following his 1888 illness, the need to build up his strength led him to become an enthusiastic mountaineer, swimmer and tennis player. He was also an amateur astronomer and an accomplished photographer. He was one of the great nature-mystics among French composers, whose personal creed was pantheistic rather than Christian. Though never a member of the Communist Party he subscribed to its ideals, and in the later 1930s especially was much concerned with the idea of 'Music for the People'.\n\n\"See also:\" in French\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816684", "title": "Mama's Pearl", "text": "Mama's Pearl\n\n\"Mama's Pearl\" was a hit recording for The Jackson 5 in 1971 and was written by The Corporation, a songwriting team that had helped the group score four consecutive #1 singles.\n\n\"Mama's Pearl\" was one of six consecutive top 5 singles for the legendary Motown, soul and funk group. \"Mama's Pearl\" went to number two for two weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 behind, One Bad Apple by The Osmonds. On the soul singles it likewise peaked at number two. Overseas, \"Mama's Pearl\" peaked at #25 in the UK.\n\nThe song, while sung mostly by Michael featured cameo spots from brothers Jermaine and Jackie. According to a Jackson biographer, \"Mama's Pearl\" was originally called \"Guess Who's Making Whoopie (With Your Girlfriend)\". Producer Deke Richards reportedly had the lyrics and title changed to preserve Michael Jackson's youthful, innocent image.\nThe demo version has since been released on the 2012 compilation \"\"\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816690", "title": "Amda Seyon II", "text": "Amda Seyon II\n\nAmda Seyon II ( , , \"Pillar of Zion\") (c. 1487 – October 26, 1494) was Emperor of Ethiopia and a member of the Solomonic dynasty. He was the infant son of Eskender, and a second wife of Eskander's father Baeda Maryam I.\n\nAmda Seyon quickly became the pawn in the struggle for control of the throne, which ended in his death, and the ascension of Na'od. As Taddesse Tamrat writes, \"Amda-Seyon's reign lasted for only six months, and even the hagiographer betrays a sense of great relief at the announcement of his death.\"\n"}
{"id": "1816693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816693", "title": "Rapture Ready", "text": "Rapture Ready\n\nRapture Ready is an Evangelical Christian website, originally a Usenet forum, founded by Todd Strandberg in 1987, that promotes the belief that the rapture will occur in the near future, with true Christians being taken up to Heaven. The site tracks the real-world occurrence of events that Strandberg believes are prophesied in the Bible, and uses these to calculate what Strandberg sees as the approach of the rapture.\n\nOriginally, Rapture Ready (then called \"Rapture Index\") consisted of threads in Usenet newsgroups such as alt.bible.prophecy and alt.christnet.second-coming.real-soon-now. In 1995, Rapture Index became a website. In 1997, it was renamed \"Rapture Ready\".\n\nThe \"Rapture Index\" keeps track of activities which Strandberg believes could be indicators of a time when the Rapture might occur. The index includes Strandberg's numerical measurement of world events and trends in light of conservative Christian views on Bible prophecy regarding the end times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816700", "title": "Sugar Daddy (The Jackson 5 song)", "text": "Sugar Daddy (The Jackson 5 song)\n\n\"Sugar Daddy\" is a hit single by the Motown quintet The Jackson 5, released in late 1971.\n\nThe song, which peaked at #3 on the R&B singles chart and #10 on the pop singles chart in the beginning of 1972. \"Sugar Daddy\" was one of the Jackson 5 hits produced by The Corporation: Berry Gordy, Freddie Perren, Alphonzo Mizell, and Deke Richards.\n\nThe b-side is the non-album track \"I'm So Happy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816706", "title": "John H. Baker Jr.", "text": "John H. Baker Jr.\n\nJohn Haywood Baker Jr. (June 10, 1935 – October 31, 2007), nicknamed \"Big John\", was an American defensive lineman in the National Football League who played for four teams from 1958 to 1968.\n\nHe later served as sheriff of Wake County, North Carolina from 1978 to 2002, becoming the first African-American sheriff in North Carolina since the Reconstruction era.\n\nJohn H. Baker was born on June 10, 1935 in Raleigh, North Carolina. He was the son of John H. Baker Sr., the city's first African-American police officer.\n\nThe young Baker attended Raleigh's Washington and Ligon High Schools and North Carolina Central University, where he graduated in 1958. There he was a teammate of Herman Boone.\n\nIn 1959 Baker married a woman named Juanita. They remained married until his death.\n\nIn the fifth round of the 1958 NFL Draft, Baker was selected by the Los Angeles Rams. Over eleven seasons he played for the Rams (1958–61), Philadelphia Eagles (1962), Pittsburgh Steelers (1963–67) and Detroit Lions (1968). With the Steelers, he was famous for his tackle on New York Giants quarterback Y. A. Tittle in 1964, which left Tittle bloodied and helmet-less.\n\nAfter Baker retired from the NFL, he worked as an aide for then-U.S. Senator Robert Morgan. He was also appointed to the state Parole Commission in 1970, the first black person to do so. Baker was a member of the \"Oval Table Gang\", an informal group of community leaders that met in Ralph Campbell Jr.'s home to discuss strategies to desegregate Raleigh schools, plan demonstrations, and assist black candidates for public office. He began speaking to youth in community centers and in prison, trying to help them change their lives for good. In 1976 Baker worked on the state presidential campaign of Jimmy Carter.\n\nIn 1978, Baker ran for sheriff of Wake County and won. He was repeatedly re-elected and held the position for 24 years. He instituted a way for incarcerated youth to continue their education, and was instrumental in founding the John H. Baker Charter School (which was named after him.)\n\nIn 2002 Baker was defeated for re-election as sheriff by Donnie Harrison. He was unsuccessful in a 2006 campaign to regain the office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816722", "title": "Rob Brown", "text": "Rob Brown\n\nRob Brown may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816724", "title": "Leathür Records", "text": "Leathür Records\n\nLeathür Records was American glam metal band Mötley Crüe's original record label that was also owned by their original manager Allan Coffman. Leathür's only release was the band's 1981 debut studio album \"Too Fast for Love\".\n\nLeathür Records was manufactured and distributed by Greenworld Distribution of Torrance, California in what is referred to as a \"pressing & distribution\" (p&d) deal. The band retained ownership of the masters while Greenworld maintained the exclusive license to manufacture and distribute the album. Greenworld subsequently renamed the division that was supporting the Mötley Crüe project as Enigma Records and it is considered the first official Enigma Records release.\n\nMötley Crüe was then picked up by Elektra Records and the record was ordered to be re-mixed for re-release. The Canadian WEA release of the album in June 1982 featured the original Leathür mixes and not the Elektra re-mixes by Roy Thomas Baker released elsewhere.\n\nThe band parted ways with Elektra in 1997, and founded Mötley Records, which is distributed by Eleven Seven Music. The label released all their classic albums before \"New Tattoo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816727", "title": "Myometrium", "text": "Myometrium\n\nThe myometrium is the middle layer of the uterine wall, consisting mainly of uterine smooth muscle cells (also called uterine myocytes) but also of supporting stromal and vascular tissue. Its main function is to induce uterine contractions.\n\nThe myometrium is located between the endometrium (the inner layer of the uterine wall) and the serosa or perimetrium (the outer uterine layer).\n\nIn non-primate species, the myometrium consists of two distinct layers, an outer longitudinal layer and an inner circular layer. However, in the human, the myometrial substructure is not so well defined as a new structure has emerged called the sub-endometrial layer of the myometrium also called the endometrial–myometrial junction.\n\nThe inner one-third of the myometrium (termed the \"junctional\" or \"sub-endometrial\" layer) appears to be derived from the Müllerian duct, while the outer, more predominant layer of the myometrium appears to originate from non-Müllerian tissue and is the major contractile tissue during parturition and abortion. The junctional layer appears to function like a circular muscle layer, capable of peristaltic and anti-peristaltic activity, equivalent to the muscular layer of the intestines.\n\nThe molecular structure of the smooth muscle of myometrium is very similar to that of smooth muscle in other sites of the body, with myosin and actin being the predominant proteins. In uterine smooth muscle, there is approximately 6-fold more actin than myosin. A shift in the myosin expression of the uterine smooth muscle may be responsible for changes in the directions of uterine contractions during the menstrual cycle.\n\nThe myometrium stretches (the smooth muscle cells expand in both size and number) during pregnancy to allow for the uterus to become several times its non-gravid size, and contracts in a coordinated fashion, via a positive feedback effect on the \"Ferguson reflex\", during the process of labor. After delivery, the myometrium contracts to expel the placenta, and crisscrossing fibres of middle layer compress the blood vessels to minimize blood loss. A positive benefit to early breastfeeding is a stimulation of this reflex to reduce further blood loss and facilitate a swift return to prepregnancy uterine and abdominal muscle tone.\n\nUterine smooth muscle has a phasic pattern, shifting between a contractile pattern and maintenance of a resting tone with discrete, intermittent contractions of varying frequency, amplitude and duration.\n\nAs noted for the macrostructure of uterine smooth muscle, the junctional layer appears to be capable of both peristaltic and anti-peristaltic activity.\n\nThe resting membrane potential (V) of uterine smooth muscle has been recorded to be between -35 and -80 mV. As with the resting membrane potential of other cell types, it is maintained by a Na/K pump that causes a higher concentration of Na ions in the extracellular space than in the intracellular space, and a higher concentration of K ions in the intracellular space than in the extracellular space. Subsequently, having K channels open to a higher degree than Na channels results in an overall efflux of positive ions, resulting in a negative potential.\n\nThis resting potential undergoes rhythmic oscillations, which have been termed \"slow waves\", and reflect intrinsic activity of slow wave potentials. These slow waves are caused by changes in the distribution of Ca, Na, K and Cl ions between the intracellular and extracellular spaces, which, in turn, reflects the permeability of the plasma membrane to each of those ions. K is the major ion responsible for such changes in ion flux, reflecting changes in various K channels.\n\nThe excitation-contraction coupling of uterine smooth muscle is also very similar to that of other smooth muscle in general, with intracellular increase in calcium (Ca) leading to contraction.\n\nRemoval of Ca after contraction induces relaxation of the smooth muscle, and restores the molecular structure of the sarcoplasmic reticulum for the next contractile stimulus.\n"}
{"id": "1816734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816734", "title": "Dancing Machine", "text": "Dancing Machine\n\n\"Dancing Machine\" is a song recorded by American R&B outfit the Jackson 5, and was the title track of their ninth studio album. The song was originally recorded for the group's 1973 album \"\" and was released as a remix for a response to the success of the single. It was the group's first US Top Ten hit since 1971's \"Sugar Daddy\". \"Dancing Machine\" brought the Jackson 5 their second Grammy Award nomination in 1975 for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals, losing to Rufus and Chaka Khan's \"Tell Me Something Good\".\n\nIn Canada, \"Dancing Machine\" went to #2 on the RPM 100. In the United States, it hit #1 in Cash Box and reached #2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, behind The Streak by Ray Stevens. In addition, it hit #1 on the R&B charts. \"Billboard\" ranked it as the No. 5 song for 1974.\n\nThe song, which reportedly sold over three million copies, popularized the physically complicated Robot dance technique, devised by Charles Washington in the late 1960s. Michael Jackson first performed the dance on television while singing \"Dancing Machine\" with the Jackson 5 on an episode of \"Soul Train\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816743", "title": "Hasan Çelebi", "text": "Hasan Çelebi\n\nHasan Çelebi, (), born 1937 in Erzurum, Turkey, is a Turkish master of Arabic calligraphy. He is a student of Hamid Aytaç.\n\nÇelebi has devoted his whole life to calligraphy, and has been described by Caryle Murphy of the \"Washington Post\" as one \"of the most celebrated masters of classical Ottoman calligraphy style\". His work was included in an exhibition of Iranian and Turkish calligraphy at the Saba Institute in Tehran. His former student, Mohammed Zakariya, is a famous American master calligrapher who lectures in the USA and in the Middle East.\n\nSoraya Syed, A British-based Islamic calligrapher and artist, and one of Hasan Celebi's students.\n\nAnnotation:\nMost important, It should not be confused Ottoman famous phenomenon calligraphers Ahmet karahisari and his student \"Hasan Çelebi\". \nThey lived in the 17th century. Name similarity only.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816756", "title": "I Am Love (song)", "text": "I Am Love (song)\n\n\"I Am Love\" (from \"Dancing Machine\") was the Jackson 5's last Top 20 hit (#15 in 1975) as the group later left Motown for CBS.\n\nReleased in late 1974 as a single, it was one of the group's album-oriented efforts as the song went beyond the usual playing time of a pop song, at around 7 minutes and 30 seconds. The song was part-soul ballad (led by Jermaine) and part-funk/rock dance anthem (led mostly by Michael).\n\nOn the single release, \"Part 1\" is an edited version of the entire album track, while \"Part 2\" is an edit of the faster-tempo second section. After the song's success, the group released their last Motown album, \"Moving Violation\", before leaving the label in 1976.\n\nIt charted at #3 on the US \"Billboard\" R&B chart and #15 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US, but was not a hit in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nIt was performed by the Jackson 5 on \"The Cher Show\" in 1975, and by the Jacksons on their TV series in 1977. A live performance by the Jacksons, at a concert in Mexico in late 1975, was included on the home video, \"The Jacksons In Concert\", released in 1981 in the UK (no USA release).\n\n"}
{"id": "1816762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816762", "title": "George Novack", "text": "George Novack\n\nGeorge Novack (August 5, 1905, Boston, Massachusetts – July 30, 1992, New York City) was an American Marxist theoretician, editor, and activist. \n\nNovack attended Harvard University for five years, though without earning a degree, and was on a successful track in the publishing business when the beginning of the Great Depression radicalized him. He joined the Trotskyist movement (Communist League of America) in 1933 and was an elected member of the National Committee of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) from 1940 to 1973.\n\nIn 1937-40, Novack served as the secretary of the American Committee for the Defence of Leon Trotsky. This body initiated the celebrated 1937 Dewey Commission that inquired into the charges made against Trotsky in the Moscow show trials, and found them to have been a complete frame-up. He played a major role in the defense campaign for the 18 SWP leaders imprisoned in World War II under the Smith Act.\n\nNovack remained a member of the SWP until his death, although he withdrew from regular political activity after the death of his wife, Evelyn Reed, in 1979, living quietly in a New York senior citizens' home.\n\nNovack produced a number of books on various aspects of Marxism. His work largely focused on presenting Marxist concepts in an accessible fashion, with major works on Dialectics, Historical materialism, and alienation. He also wrote a number of volumes explaining the intersections and differences between Marxism and other schools of Philosophy, including Analytic philosophy, Empiricism, Humanism, Existentialism, and Pragmatism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816765", "title": "Dutch Warmblood", "text": "Dutch Warmblood\n\nA Dutch Warmblood is a warmblood type of horse registered with the Koninklijk Warmbloed Paardenstamboek Nederland (Royal Warmblood Studbook of the Netherlands (KWPN), which governs the breeding of competitive dressage and show jumping horses, as well as the show harness horse and Gelderlander, and a hunter studbook in North America. Developed through a breeding program that began in the 1960s, the Dutch are some of the most successful competition horses developed in postwar Europe.\n\nPrior to World War II, there were two types of utility horse in the Netherlands: Gelderlanders bred in the south under the Gelderlander Horse Studbook (1925) and the Groningen bred in the north under the NWP (1943). The Groningen was, and still is, a heavy-set warmblood horse very similar to the Alt-Oldenburger and East Friesian. The Gelderlander was a more elegant variation, often serving as a carriage horse in addition to a useful draft horse. While the Groningen were almost unwaveringly solid black, brown, or dark bay, the Gelderlanders were more often chestnut with flashy white markings. These two registries merged to form the Royal Warmblood Horse Studbook of the Netherlands (KWPN).\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Gelderlander and Groninger were replaced by tractors and cars, and horses began to become a luxury rather than a necessity. As early as the 1950s, stallions like the French-bred \"L'Invasion\" and Holsteiner \"Normann\" were imported to encourage a change in the type of Dutch horses, followed soon after by the Holsteiner \"Amor\" and Hanoverian \"Eclatant\". The carriage-pulling foundation stock contributed their active, powerful front ends and gentle dispositions to the Dutch Warmblood.\n\nToday the KWPN comprises four sections: the Gelderlander, the Tuigpaard or Dutch Harness Horse, and riding horses bred for either dressage or show jumping.\n\nDutch law has made branding illegal, so today only the oldest Dutch Warmbloods from the Netherlands still bear the lion-rampant brand on the left hip. Instead, the horses are microchipped. However, North American Dutch Warmbloods may still be branded. To become a breeding horse, mares must stand at least and stallions at least at the withers. There is no upper height limit, though too-tall horses are impractical for sport and not desirable.\n\nMost Dutch Warmbloods are black, brown, bay, chestnut, or grey, and white markings are common. The population also has a number of tobiano horses from the influence of the approved stallion \"Samber\", though a second tobiano stallion has not been approved since.\n\nBreeding goals calls for dressage and showjumping horses to be suitable for Grand Prix level riding, while hunter and harness horses should be able to perform at the highest level in their sport. Strict selection procedures ensure that bad-tempered stallions and mares do not go on to produce unmanageable horses, however, the Dutch Warmblood is significantly more sensitive than its Gelderlander and Groningen ancestors. Performance test results allow breeders and buyers to identify horses with amateur-suitable temperaments. All Dutch Warmbloods are selected to be uncomplicated to handle and ride. Among the dressage horses, cooperativeness is paramount as an element of the submission required in that sport. From the show jumpers, a level of courage and reflexivity is required to effectively navigate a course.\n\nSince the turn of the millennium, Dutch Warmblood breeding has shifted from breeding a \"riding horse\" to further specialization into dressage type and jumper type horses. \nThe reason behind the choice for specialisation is the negative genetic correlation between the ability for dressage and show jumping. By dividing the whole population in two subpopulations, faster genetic progress can be achieved in both traits compared to simultaneous selection in the whole population.\n\nTo protect against losing canter quality in the dressage horse and conformation, gaits and rideability in the jumper type, genetic material continues to be freely exchanged between the two types.\n\nThe Dutch Warmblood is long-legged but substantial with a smooth topline and dry, expressive head. They are built level to uphill in a rectangular frame. A number of traits are desirable in both directions, such as \"long lines\" or a rectangular frame, \"balanced proportions\" and attractiveness. The requirements for the two types differ in the desired interior qualities, but also in form. The exact outline of the Dutch Warmblood varies depending on the pedigree.\n\nDutch Warmbloods are sound and long-lived due to the stringent requirements placed on stallions and elite mares. While mild navicular changes, sesamoids, pastern arthritis and bone spavin may be permitted on radiographs, osteochondrosis in the hock or stifle is not allowed. Horses are disqualified from breeding for congenital eye defects, over- or underbite, or a lack of symmetry in stifles, hocks, hooves, or movement.\n\nNo registry produced more successful international show jumping horses than the KWPN. In 2010, Dutch Warmbloods were ranked #1 in jumping by the World Breeding Federation for Sport Horses (WBFSH). as well as in dressage. A few of the recent Olympic medalists bred in the Netherlands include \"Royal Kaliber\", \"Montender\", \"Authentic (Nimrod)\",\"Mac Kinley\" in 2004, \"De Sjiem\" in 2000 and \"Hickstead\" in 2008.\n\nRecent Dutch Warmblood Olympic medal-winners in dressage include \"Ferro\" and \"Udon\". The Dutch Warmblood stallion Moorlands Totilas held the world record for the highest dressage score in Grand Prix Freestyle Dressage, and won three gold medals at the 2010 FEI World Equestrian Games. The current World Record holder for Grand Prix Freestyle Dressage is Valegro, with British rider Charlotte Dujardin. Valegro is KWPN sired by Negro.\n\nEventing is not a priority for Dutch breeders, nevertheless there are a handful of Dutch Warmblood eventers on the international scene.\n\nIn North America, the Dutch Warmblood is a favorite choice for the hunter ring. \"Rox Dene\", named \"Hunter of the Century\" by the Chronicle of the Horse, was sired by the Dutch Warmblood stallion \"Aristos B\". The North American branch of the KWPN has begun selection for Dutch Hunter horses; one of the first approved stallions was Popeye K, himself a Dutch Warmblood. Rox Dene was later bred to Popeye K.\n\nA Dutch warmblood stallion by the name of Uraeus was cast in the role of Brego in \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n"}
{"id": "1816780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816780", "title": "Jonathan Batty", "text": "Jonathan Batty\n\nJonathan Neil Batty (born 18 April 1974) is an English former first-class cricketer who played for Surrey and Gloucestershire. Batty was educated at Repton School, St Chad's College, Durham University and Keble College, Oxford.\n\nOn graduating from Durham University in 1995, Batty joined Hampshire. However, he was not retained. He continued his career on in minor county cricket before being offered contracts with Somerset and Surrey. He chose to become Surrey's third-choice wicket-keeper after Graham Kersey and Alec Stewart. Kersey, however, died from injuries in a car crash in Australia. With Stewart often unavailable to Surrey due to England duties, Batty was able to enjoy regular first team action, often opening the batting when Mark Butcher was also playing for England. Batty was a regular player in Surrey's sustained success, winning three county championships around the turn of the century.\n\nFollowing Stewart's retirement from international cricket at the end of the 2003 season, Batty was surprisingly not mentioned in media discussions over Stewart's replacement – despite a county average of 57 that season. England's chairman of selectors, David Graveney said Batty's performances do not go unnoticed, but he remained in the international wilderness.\n\nBatty captained Surrey in 2004. However, after a poor season, which saw champions Surrey relegated in the One Day Pro40 tournament, Batty was replaced as captain by Mark Butcher. However, Batty retained his place in the side and was awarded a benefit year by the county in 2009.\n\nBatty equalled the world record for most catches in an innings with 8, against Kent at The Oval in 2004. Shortly afterwards he broke the record for most catches in a match with 11, against Lancashire, breaking the record of then Surrey coach Steve Rixon.\n\nIt was announced in October 2009 that Batty was leaving Surrey, having signed a three-year contract with Gloucestershire. He retired following the end of the 2012 season. In an article in the \"Daily Telegraph\" reviewing his career, Simon Briggs claimed that he was \"the finest uncapped player of the last 20 years\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1816789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816789", "title": "Sweet 75", "text": "Sweet 75\n\nSweet 75 was a band formed by Krist Novoselic in 1995 after the break-up of Nirvana. The band released one self-titled album before splitting up in 2000.\n\nKrist Novoselic formed Sweet 75 after Nirvana's 1994 break-up, along with Venezuelan-born street singer Yva Las Vegass, whom he met after his wife hired her to sing at his birthday party. Novoselic originally planned to produce an album for the singer but after writing songs together, they decided to form Sweet 75, the name taken from a poem by Theodore Roethke. With Bobi Lore added on drums, they performed a few live shows in 1995 and signed to Geffen Records. In 1996 a bootleg of a November 17, 1995 live show was released by the record company Sea Monkey called \"Trucked Up Fuckstop\". Lore was replaced by former Ministry drummer Bill Rieflin before the band recorded their self-titled debut album, which included guest performances from Peter Buck of R.E.M., Anisa Romero (of Sky Cries Mary), and Herb Alpert. The album was not released until 1997, after a tour with Dinosaur Jr., by which time Rieflin had been replaced by former Shudder to Think drummer Adam Wade, and failed to make much impression, either commercially or critically. The album was described as blending \"indie-rock with heavy rock, Mexican music, lounge and country\". In addition, a single of the song \"Lay Me Down\" was released in Australia. It contained the album tracks \"Lay Me Down\" and \"La Vida\", and a previously unreleased song called \"Soap Zone\". Wade left in October 1997, and the group disbanded in early 1998. They reformed later that year, with Rieflin back on drums, and recorded demos for a second album, but Novoselic and Rieflin began spending more time on their other project, Sunshine Cake, with Anisa Romero, and in mid-1999 the band again split up. Further work on the second album in 2000 was reported but by August that year the band had split up for good, citing \"creative differences\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816793", "title": "Danilov Monastery", "text": "Danilov Monastery\n\nDanilov Monastery (also \"Svyato-Danilov Monastery\" or \"Holy Danilov Monastery\"; Данилов монастырь, Свято-Данилов монастырь in Russian) is a walled monastery on the right bank of the Moskva River in Moscow. Since 1983, it has functioned as the headquarters of the Russian Orthodox church and the official residence of the Patriarch of Moscow and all the Rus'.\n\nDanilov Monastery is claimed to have been founded in the late 13th century by Alexander Nevsky's son Daniel. Shortly before his death in 1303, Daniel is supposed to have taken monastic vows and been buried there. The Russian Orthodox church venerates him as a saint. Daniel's successors had this monastery relocated to the Kremlin. All that remained at the original location was a graveyard.\n\nIn 1560, Ivan the Terrible visited the village of Danilovskoye and noticed the neglected graveyard. Upon learning about the old monastery, he invited monks to settle there again. In 1591, when the armies of a Crimean khan Kaza Giray approached Moscow, the grounds were fortified and used as a mobile camp. \nIn 1606, the rebels led by Ivan Bolotnikov and Istoma Pashkov collided with the army of Vasili IV not far from the monastery. In 1607, an impostor by the name of Ileyka Muromets, who had pretended to be tsarevich Peter (son of Feodor I of Russia), was executed next to Danilov Monastery. Being in the center of many military events during the Time of Troubles, the monastery was severely damaged in 1610. In the early 17th century, it was surrounded by a brick wall with seven towers.\n\nIn 1710, there were 30 monks in Danilov Monastery. In 1764, there were only twelve of them on staff. By 1900, however, the number rose to seventeen. Among the monks who lived in Danilov Monastery during its history was the renowned Greek scholar Nikephoros Theotokis, who retired to this monastery in 1792 from his bishop's position in South Russia, and lived here until his death in 1800.\n\nIn 1805, an almshouse for elderly women was established at the monastery; later it was turned into an almshouse for elderly clergymen and their widows.\n\nIn 1812, the monastery was ransacked by the French army. The monasterial sacristy and treasury, however, had been transported to Vologda and Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra shortly before the French occupied Moscow. \n\nFirst documented information on Danilov Monastery's landownership can be traced back to 1785, when it owned 18 desyatinas of land. By the end of the 19th century, the monastery had already possessed 178 desyatinas and a few buildings in Moscow.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, Danilov Monastery's cemetery was a final resting place for many writers, artists and scientists, such as Nikolai Gogol, Nikolai Yazykov, Vasili Perov, Nikolai Rubinstein, Vladimir Solovyov and many others. The remains of most of them, however, were transported in Soviet years to the Novodevichy Cemetery. By 1917, Danilov Monastery had 19 monks and four novices and owned 164 desyatinas of land.\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the monastery housed archimandrites who had been deprived of their pulpits. In 1929, the Soviets issued a special decree on closing the monastery and organizing a detention facility on its premises under the auspices of NKVD (приёмник-распределитель НКВД, or \"priyomnik-raspredelitel' NKVD\"). The last monastery closed in Moscow became the first one to be returned in 1983 to the Moscow Patriarchy and became a spiritual and administrative centre of the Russian Orthodox Church. In 1988, the monastery was restored. A residence was built for the Patriarch and Synod, as well as a funeral chapel and a chapel in commemoration of the 1000 years of Russia's baptism.\n\nApart from the 17th-century defensive towers and walls, the surviving buildings include the katholikon (main church), the Neoclassical cathedral of the Holy Trinity (1833-1838), the Baroque gate church and belltower of St Simeon Stylites (1681, 1732), a group of 19th-century dwellings for monks and the father superior, and the extensive modern residence of the Holy Synod and the Patriarch (1988). Right next door is the large parish , built in 1832-1837 to Neoclassical designs by Fyodor Shestakov.\n\nThe oldest building is the katholikon dedicated to the Holy Fathers of the First seven ecumenical councils (a dedication not found anywhere else in the Christian world). The lower temple was built during the reign of Tsar Alexis as a church dedicated to the feast of the Intercession. Two Baroque upper churches were completed in 1730 and 1752, respectively. The katholikon is the only building in Moscow to feature two distinct churches above another church on the ground floor.\n\nWhen the monastery was closed in 1929 and 1930, its bell set was saved from Communist melting through the purchase by American industrialist Charles R. Crane. The largest of the bells, Bolshoi (or The Big One - called The Mother Earth Bell at Harvard), weighs 13 tons and has a 700-pound clapper. The smallest weighs just 22 pounds. Crane donated the bells to Harvard University and they were installed in the main tower of Harvard's Lowell House and at the Harvard Business School's Baker Library. Beginning in the 1980s, with openness under Gorbachev, there were calls to return the bells, and after numerous meetings over the years, the bells were returned to the Russian Orthodox Church in the fall of 2008. Russian industrialist Viktor Vekselberg, famous for buying up a number of Faberge Eggs, agreed to pay for the repatriation of the 18 bells and for the cost of casting replacements of them in Russia to be hung at Harvard. The first of the bells, known as the Everyday (or Weekday) Bell, weighing 2.2 tons, arrived at the Danilov Monastery on September 12, 2007; the remaining seventeen were returned on September 12, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816795", "title": "Fairfax Connector", "text": "Fairfax Connector\n\nFairfax Connector is a public bus service provided by Fairfax County, Virginia, United States, and is managed by the county government.\n\nThe bus system provides service within Fairfax County, and connects to Metrobus, Metrorail stations, Virginia Railway Express, and other local bus systems. Fairfax Connector serves all of Fairfax Metrorail Stations, the city of Alexandria, the city of Fairfax, the Washington Dulles International Airport, and the Pentagon Metrorail station during morning and evening peak periods.\n\nFairfax Connector, or simply \"The Connector\", is operated under contract by Transdev, and is the third largest bus fleet in the D.C. area. The Connector provides a fixed-route bus service within Fairfax County on 93 routes and carries about nine million passengers annually. The Connector's goals is to supplement the regional rail and bus service provided by the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), providing reliable local bus service, and to improves the safety of the community of Fairfax County.\n\nThe first buses rolled out in September 1985 as a lower-cost alternative to the Metrobus service of the regional Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. The original routes connected the southern part of the county (near the Mount Vernon Estate) to the Huntington Metro station which borders Alexandria. This area continues to be the core of the system, and is noted for the number of residents in the Richmond Highway area who use the service at all times of the day. It had 10 routes, and many routes serves through Huntington Station. These first 10 routes were previously served by Metrobus. In 1988, The Connector began to operate express routes, to connect to Pentagon station. It also expanded through the southeastern portion of Fairfax.\n\nIn 1990, The Connector took over the operation of the RIBS (Reston Internal Bus Service). Service continues to provide through the southern portion of Alexandria, when Van Dorn Street station opened in 1991. In 1994, the service was extended to the high-technology industrial areas of suburban Reston and Herndon, located between Washington, D.C. and Washington Dulles International Airport. Along State Route 267 (the Dulles Toll Road), express buses carry commuters from free park-and-ride lots to the Washington Metro system. In 1999, the Herndon-Monroe Park & Ride and the\nTysons Westpark Transit Station opened, extending its operation within the county.\n\nAfter having many buses running on pure diesel, The Connector ordered buses that runs in Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel\nfuel in 2002. These bus upgrades can retrofitting the fleet with Green Diesel technology, so the county can go environmentally friendly. More bus stations continues to increase, with the opening of the Lorton Park-and-Ride in 2003, and the Gambrill Road Park-and-Ride in 2005. The Connector began installing the SmarTrip Fare Card technology, so that passengers can pay their fare using WMATA's SmarTrip. In June 2009, service was transitioned from the Metrobus 2W, 12-, and 20-series routes to the Connector in the Centreville, Chantilly, and Oakton areas along I-66 and near Vienna/Fairfax-GMU Station.\n\nOn July 1, 2009 MV Transportation took over from Veolia Transport as the operator.\n\nMajor changes began in 2010, when the Reston East Park-and-Ride closed to make way for the Silver Line construction. After the Silver Line opened in 2014, The Connector modified its service, by providing three circulator routes within Tysons Corner, as well as new service to McLean. Many routes were modified, so The Connector can give access to its riders to transfer within the Silver Line and other portions within the County. On July 1, 2019 Transdev commenced a five year contract to operate the network with an option to extend for a further 10 years. As previously mentioned, Transdev (then as Veolia Transport) had previously operated The Connector until July 1, 2009.\n\nOn December 5, 2019, Fairfax Connector worker went on a strike against Transdev affecting 30,000 riders with all routes operating on Sunday service. The strike joins 130 employees at Metrobus's Cinder Bed garage who went on strike against Transdev on October 24, 2019.\n\nThe base fare for The Connector are $2.00 in local routes; $4.25 on Routes 393, 394, and 395; $0.50 on routes 422, 423, 424; $5.00 on route 480; and $7.50 on route 699. Fares are paid in cash (exact change), Metrobus weekly unlimited bus \"flash\" pass, or WMATA issued SmarTrip card.\n\nFairfax Connector operates a fleet consisting of Diesel buses produced by Orion Bus Industries and New Flyer Industries. , the Fairfax Connector fleet roster consists of the following buses:\nThe bus fleet, owned and operated by Fairfax Connector, is distributed among three garages in Newington, and Reston.\n\n, the Fairfax Connector bus system consists of 93 routes. The following are the route numbers and names that make up the Fairfax Connector bus system.\n\nThese routes have been served by Fairfax Connector at one point but have since been discontinued due to either low ridership, duplication of another route, simplification to other routes, or combined into another route. However some routes would be reincarnated into new routes for Fairfax Connector.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816799", "title": "Visual Café", "text": "Visual Café\n\nVisual Café (formally Visual Café for Java) was an integrated development environment for the Java programming language. It included a GUI builder and was marketed as a series of editions: \"Standard Edition,\" \"Enterprise Suite,\" \"Expert Edition,\" \"Professional Edition,\" and \"Development Edition.\" The \"Enterprise Suite\" was notable for supporting distributed CORBA and RMI debugging. Visual Cafe itself was not written in Java.\n\nVisual Café was spun off by Symantec, being purchased by BEA Systems and sold as the development environment to an early WebLogic Server. The freeware tools environment (Eclipse) limited the commercial viability of the development tool market, and Visual Cafe' became the flagship product of a new BEA spinoff company focused on development tools called WebGain. WebGain acquired several other technologies, including TopLink, before ceasing operations in 2002. While TopLink found a home at Oracle, Visual Café is no longer commercially available.\n\nWebGain purchased TogetherSoft's product Together Control Center (Together Studio) to integrate into Visual Café, but soon after the purchase was complete, Borland purchased WebGain's products Visual Café and Together Control Center. These products can now be found in JBuilder.\n\nMansour Safai, Vice President of the Language and Internet Tools Division of Symantec recognized the significance of the Java language early on, and was the first to offer integrated Java development tools in the pioneering Café product line, which evolved to the market leading product Visual Café. Visual Café was considered an early leader in Java IDE's.\n\nThe product was well received. It won InfoWorld's 1997 \"Product of the Year\" award.\n\nOther IDEs that existed at the same time were Visual Age for Java (the spiritual predecessor to Eclipse), Asymetrix' (the first Java machine code compiler), NetBeans (known briefly as Forté for Java), JBuilder, PowerSoft's PowerJ and Mojo Enterprise.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816800", "title": "Kappad", "text": "Kappad\n\nKappad, or Kappakadavu locally, is a beach near Kozhikode, in the district of the same name, Kerala, India.\nA stone monument installed by government commemorates the \"landing\" by Vasco da Gama with the inscription, \"'Vasco da Gama landed here, Kappakadavu, in the year 1498'.\"\n\nIn 2007 a Rs. 1.5 crore program to beautify the beach was launched by [Kerala] Tourism Minister Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. It is now completed and Kappad beach has a corniche and park. The park includes a restroom, restaurant and seating.\n\nThe nearest major railway station is Koyilandy, about 10 km away from Kappad. The nearest airport is Calicut International Airport (CCJ), which is about 25 km from the town of Kozhikode. Private transport buses are available from the main bus stand, or visitors can reach the beach by stopping at Thiruvangoor on National Highway 66 between Kozhikode and Vadakara.\n"}
{"id": "1816806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816806", "title": "List of BattleTech novels", "text": "List of BattleTech novels\n\nMore than one hundred full-length \"BattleTech\" or \"\" science fiction novels have been published by FASA Corporation and later by ROC, and have been translated into at least fifteen languages. The novels take place in the fictional BattleTech universe of the 31st and 32nd centuries. They can be considered space opera.\nThe first official \"BattleTech\" novel was William H. Keith's \"Decision at Thunder Rift\" (1986); the last from FASA was Loren L. Coleman's \"Endgame\" (2002) which resolved plot lines and character arcs from many previous works. Subsequent publications jump ahead chronologically to the 32nd-century \"\" setting, beginning with Michael A. Stackpole's \"Ghost War\" (2002) and ending with Kevin Killiany's \"To Ride the Chimera\" (2008). The 2008 closure of WizKids delayed the release of further novels.\n\nIn June 2007, Catalyst Game Labs received the rights to publish both Classic and Dark Age book lines and had scheduled new works to resume in the fall of 2009. 3 new novels have been published as of February, 2019 and several novellas associated with Kickstarter have been produced for both the Table Top game Battletech and the turn-based strategy game, titled simply \"BattleTech\", by Harebrained Schemes\n\nThe Dark Age-era series, originally known as \"Mechwarrior: Dark Age\", has been renamed \"Battletech: Dark Age\".\n\nThe following novels occur during what was referred to the \"Classic BattleTech\" era, which includes the 31st century and preceding centuries. Also, additional eras have been added, broadening the term. The Classic reference was dropped after the ownership change and rebranding occurred.\nThe following novels occur during the era of \"\" in the early to mid 32nd century.\n"}
{"id": "1816813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816813", "title": "Neil Saker", "text": "Neil Saker\n\nNeil Clifford Saker (born 20 September 1984 in Tooting, London) is an English cricketer who currently plays for Unicorns, having previous played for Surrey. He is a right-hand batsman and right-arm medium pace bowler.\n\nIn July 2003 Saker made his first-class debut against India A, he scored 5 and bowled 15 wicketless overs. In September of the same season he made his county cricket debut against Essex, his maiden first-class wicket being that of Alastair Cook. At the end of the season he became the first Surrey Academy player to sign a full-time professional contract with the county.\n\nAfter a season in the second team, Saker was used frequently in the first team in 2005 although twelve of his thirteen appearances came in the one-day format. He was given more first-class opportunities in 2006 and 2007 playing a total of 15 matches, taking 29 wickets at an average of 45.03. After playing a single one-day match in 2008 he was released at the end of the season.\n\nDuring the 2010 Clydesdale Bank 40 domestic limited overs competition, Saker was added to the Unicorns squad to play against the regular first-class counties. The Unicorns were initially made up of 15 former county cricket professionals and 6 young cricketers looking to make it in the professional game. He appeared for Unicorns again in 2011 and also played for Kent in four first-class matches in the same season, but did not win a long-term contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816820", "title": "Gem Theater", "text": "Gem Theater\n\nThe Gem Theater was a saloon in Deadwood, South Dakota, owned by Al Swearengen. \n\nSwearengen opened the \"Gem Variety Theater\" on April 7, 1877, at the corners of Wall and Main streets, to entertain the population of the mining camp with \"prize fights\" (as was customary with Swearengen's previous establishment the Cricket Saloon, no prizes were actually involved), stage acts consisting of comedians, singers and dancers, and, primarily, prostitutes.\n\nGambling was a main theme at the Gem, as was the Gem band, who played nightly from the balcony as a form of advertising.\n\nSwearengen recruited his prostitutes by advertising legitimate stage, cleaning, or waitressing jobs in his theater to desperate young women and advancing them the money for their (one way) trip; then, when they arrived, forcing them into what was essentially indentured servitude as prostitutes. Those who balked were first threatened with demands for repayment of the funds advanced to them for the trip; if that failed, they were threatened with beatings, and if that failed they were beaten and physically forced to submit to Swearengen's demands. Many still resisted, but those who escaped this fate could only find themselves in no better situation, as penniless women with no source of income, alone in a rough and rowdy mining camp, and with the constant threat of Swearengen's men hanging over them. Many grew sick and died from lack of proper nutrition and shelter, while many others committed suicide.\n\nThe Gem prospered, bringing in an average of $5,000 a night, even reaching as high as $10,000. Swearengen forged alliances with many of Deadwood's most prominent citizens, buying himself immunity from legal or other problems. His immunity even extended to the notoriously upright and incorruptible Marshal Seth Bullock, who did not have the political clout to extend his campaign to clean up the town as far as the lower regions of Main Street, which remained Swearengen's territory. \n\nThe front of the Gem consisted of a bar, and the \"theater\" area; in the back were the rooms for the prostitutes. Day-to-day operations were managed by Al Swearengen himself. Additionally there is no evidence supporting the existence of Dan Dority and Johnny Burns (both portrayed in \"Deadwood\", whose real life counterparts were based on a combination of multiple Gem Theater subordinates). Swearengen was reputed to be much more brutal to the prostitutes than seen in the series. Customers frequently brutalized the women, even to the point of killing them.\n\nThe violence in the Gem was not confined to the prostitutes, with the saloon being a frequent site of gunfights between drunken patrons; and in one memorable instance, the memoirs of John S. McClintock reported a prostitute named \"Trixie\" having shot a large hole through the skull of a man who astounded everyone by surviving for another half an hour.\n\nThe Gem was damaged by fire in the summer of 1879 and repaired, but then very soon destroyed in a major fire that devastated the town on September 26, 1879. Swearengen built an even larger and more grand establishment, reopening in December 1879 to adulation as the finest theater ever seen in Deadwood.\n\nIn 1899, however, the Gem burned down once again, and a broke Swearengen declined to rebuild and left for Colorado. Despite the Gem's history as Deadwood's longest-lived entertainment institution, its support by so many of the town power brokers over the years, and the glowing tributes in the press after the rebuilt Gem was unveiled, after its demise it was reviled in the press as an evil institution and a town shame.\n\nSwearengen (played by Ian McShane) and the Gem are both portrayed in the HBO television show, \"Deadwood\" (2004–2006) and \"\" (2019), but in heavily modified form. The show's fictional Gem Saloon is already well-established when the show begins in August 1876 and in the movie, which takes place in 1889, it is implied that Swearengen dies due to liver failure in his bed upstairs in the saloon (the real Swearengen was murdered in Denver in 1904) and that he leaves the saloon to a former prostitute named Trixie, a character who is not based on any one real life person and was created for the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816827", "title": "Base change", "text": "Base change\n\nIn mathematics, base change may mean:\n"}
{"id": "1816833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816833", "title": "Lugar Water", "text": "Lugar Water\n\nThe Lugar Water, or River Lugar, is created by the confluence of the Bellow Water and the Glenmuir Water, just north of Lugar, both of which flow from the hills of the Southern Uplands in East Ayrshire, Scotland.\n\nThe river flows through the small mining village of Lugar, where at Bellow Mill, William Murdoch, the inventor of gas lighting was born in 1784. A cave where he carried out a lot of his experiments can still be seen on the riverbank. The river then flows on through the town of Cumnock, under the Woodroad Viaduct, where its water was used in earlier times to power grain mills and where it is joined by Glaisnock Water.\n\nIt continues its journey through the estate of the Marquess of Bute, Dumfries Estate, where it flows beneath the beautiful ornamental bridge of Lochnorris, designed by John Adam. who also designed and built Dumfries House, the residence of the present Marquess of Bute. It now reaches the village of Ochiltree, where its waters are harnessed by a weir which drove the local grain mills in days gone by. Here Atlantic salmon have been seen jumping the fish ladder, which allows them to reach their spawning grounds in the upper reaches of the river. The river also holds a good stock of the native brown trout, and these are fished for by anglers of all ages. In May 2014 the Ayrshire Rivers Trust reported that barbel, a locally invasive species, had been caught on the river.\n\nThe river now enters a gorge of red sandstone with high cliffs on either side. High on one of these cliffs stand the ruins of Ochiltree Castle and beneath this can be found Wallace's Cave, where William Wallace allegedly hid from his pursuers.\n\nThe river now reaches the end of its journey of some twenty miles and here joins the larger River Ayr which carries its waters to the sea.\n\nKingfishers and dippers are two of the avian species to be found on its riverbanks, along with yellow and pied wagtails, chaffinch, goldfinch and the tiny wren.\n"}
{"id": "1816841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816841", "title": "All Saved Freak Band", "text": "All Saved Freak Band\n\nThe All Saved Freak Band was one of the earliest influences in what has since become a distinct sub-category of Rock and Roll, Contemporary Christian Music. Broadcasting their first recorded songs on WREO radio in Ashtabula County, Ohio in the fall of 1968, ASFB joined Larry Norman and the California group, Agape, as one of the original \"pioneers\" of Jesus music, birthed in that same year.\n\nUnique in many ways, ASFB was a large, ensemble group of 12 musicians. Predating Birmingham's Electric Light Orchestra' by two years, ASFB was one of the first \"rock\" bands [It's A Beautiful Day, with violinist David LaFlamme, preceded ASFB in 1967] to use violin and cello as an integral part of rhythmic music. Their song, \"Seek Him\", exemplifies the layering of blues and classical strings that characterized much of their sound. \"Garnering acclaim for superior songwriting and instrumentation,\" ASFB recorded four albums now recognized as classic examples of the earliest \"Jesus music.\" Though courted by RCA and Columbia, ASFB never signed a contract in an effort to maintain control of the band's music and direction - that choice also assuring their esoteric status.\n\nBased out of a Christian commune near Orwell, Ohio, members included co-founders Joe Markko and Larry Hill, Mike Berkey, Ed Durkos, Tom Eritano, Tim Hill, Morgan King, Norris McClure, Carole King, Randy Markko, Kim Massman, Pam Massman, Tom Miller, and rock guitarist Glenn Schwartz. Schwartz was lead-guitarist for the rock group, the James Gang (later replaced by Joe Walsh) and Pacific Gas & Electric who recorded a top 20 song in 1969, \"Are You Ready?\" Temporary replacements for Glenn Schwartz and Tom Eritano were guitarist Phil Keaggy of the Glass Harp and drummer, Val Fuentes from the California band, It's A Beautiful Day. \nPrior to recording their first album, three band members - Brett Hill [Larry's son], Joe's brother Randy and Tom Miller - all lost their lives in automobile accidents while traveling to concerts. Singing backup and playing piano, Tom \"Aquinas\" Miller was one of the \"Kent-25\" and had been featured in Life magazine as part of the protests on the Kent State campus at the time of the Kent State shootings. Though the music on their first album, \"My Poor Generation\", was written between 1968 and 1972, it wasn't released until 1973 and was dedicated to the memories of Randy Markko and Tom Miller. \"The totally essential Jesus rock album featuring some baroque chamber folk with harpsichord, strings, piano and woodwinds, some otherworldly smoky dream psych and some stripped-down electric boogie blues. This was an odd congregation that collectively created an atmosphere representing the best in what was once Jesus rock.\" \n\nTheir second album, \"For Christians, Elves and Lovers\" (1976) combined evangelical theology and millennialism with admiration for the fantasy world of Lord of the Rings author, J.R.R. Tolkien. A copy of this album remains part of the Tolkien Collection at Marquette University. \"And what is the result of this musical fusion? An absolutely incredible album which might well become a classic in the annals of Jesus music. The credit for this record's brilliance belongs to the artists themselves. Because of their talent and versatility, the 14 cuts never suffer from being repetitious or boring. One need only look at the diversity in style from one selection to the next in order to appreciate the creative abilities of these musicians. This is the 3rd album for ASFB and belongs on the shelf of every Jesus music fan.\"\n\nThe band was shaken again in early 1973 when co-founder and guitarist, Joe Markko, was electrocuted with 27,000 volts of electricity in an industrial accident. Losing both hands and massively burned over 55% of his body, Joe remained in the Burn Unit of Cleveland MetroHealth for 9 months. Rhythm guitarist Ed Durkos learned all of Joe's music and the band moved forward. Following Joe's release he continued writing, singing and arranging for the band.\n\nIn February 1975, after lead guitarist Glenn Schwartz's family grew concerned about the deteriorating social conditions at the church's communal farm, they had him kidnapped for an intense, three-day \"deprogramming\" effort by famed cult deprogrammer, Ted Patrick. The attempt was unsuccessful and the Band issued their third album, \"Brainwashed\" in, as what one ex-member termed, \"a cynical response\" to critics of the band's lifestyle. \"Brainwashed\" is listed as album #4 on the \"\"Top 50 Collectible Jesus Music Albums of all Time\",\" compiled by contemporary Church historian, David DiSabatino. \"This is a tough band to figure out. With some of the best Christian 70s rock by anyone anywhere their music is stunningly powerful with a dark, creeping psychrock menace achieved via songwriting and guitar/organ arrangements that spell big league all the way. If \"For Christians, Elves & Lovers\" is the mellower side of ASFB, \"Brainwashed\" is the flip side of the coin. This album is non-stop sizzling stuff with plenty of heavy organ, harmonica and, of course, Glenn Schwartz's searing guitar fireworks. This is an incredible album folks. So much variety here, too - it never gets boring.\" \n\nTheir fourth album, \"Sower\", was released in 1980 after all the band members had departed except for Hill and the Massmann sisters. Especially influential on the lyrics of this recording were Larry Hill's apocalyptic visions. \"Man, these guys were just so good! Wailing away one minute - folk mood, jazz lightness the next. Seems impossible on paper, but with ASFB it works. Showing maturity in sound and lyric, all tracks are standouts. All their albums are treasures with layers of interest both musically and lyrically.\"\n\nASFB mastered their albums at Cleveland Recording. Housed in an older building on Euclid Avenue it was eventually torn down to make way for the burgeoning growth of Cleveland State University. ASFB recorded alongside some well-known \"Great Lakes\" rock groups. The Outsiders' \"Time Won't Let Me\", Wild Cherry's \"Play That Funky Music\", The Lemon Pipers' \"Green Tambourine\", The Human Beinz' \"Nobody but Me\", Grand Funk Railroad's first seven albums, and the James Gang's albums were all recorded here, using the Cleveland Orchestra whenever needed. The engineer and owner, Ken Hamann, teamed up with Nashville producer, Rob Galbraith, on all of ASFB's recordings. The band met Rob while on tour in Nashville in 1971 when Glenn, Larry, Randy and Joe taped a demo of a few songs at the Columbia Studio. Rob also recorded an impromptu version of Old Rugged Cross that appears on more than one album.\n\nIndependently produced and distributed, the music of the All Saved Freak Band had been played on hundreds of radio stations in more than 14 different countries by the time they disbanded in the winter of 1978-79. Ministering in the street, in concert and across denominational lines for more than a decade, the band's demise was based on irreconcilable differences between band members and the leadership of their home church that involved legally prosecuted charges of child abuse. Larry, Ed and the Massmann sisters would attempt to continue the effort until 1980 but the All Saved Freak Band was gone following the departures of Joe Markko and Glenn Schwartz.\nIn 2006, after several years of legal efforts, former band members united to regain control of their music and end Hill's 35-year control of their collective efforts. Releasing a \"Best of\" collection, \"Harps On Willows\", ASFB has established an ongoing musical legacy. The album was honored when selected by Cross Rhythms Magazine as one of the Top 20 CD Releases of 2006 along with releases from Bob Dylan and Switchfoot. \"Here's a welcome collating of the best performances from one of America's greatest hippie Christian bands. While bands like Petra and Resurrection Band spent the '70s perfecting a heavy rock'n'roll, ASFB ploughed a blusier furrow with ace blues guitarist Glenn Schwartz exemplifying his renowned skills. One joy is the fact that they wrote songs that were simple in their message. These are songs to get people to think about the Gospel, an art that seems to be missing in modern Christian music. These recordings are very much of their time so they are a little ragged around the edges production wise but the band certainly fulfilled their ambition to create music that would stop people in their tracks and make them respond to the Gospel.\"\n\nThe 2006 Emmy-nominated documentary, \"Lonnie Frisbee: Life and Death of a Hippie Preacher\", by David Di Sabatino features two songs by the All Saved Freak Band (\"Sower\" and \"My Poor Generation\"), and the soundtrack to the documentary also included \"Ode To Glenn Schwartz\".\n\nThe All Saved Freak Band played throughout the eastern portion of North America and Canada. As guests of the city of New Orleans, they played and testified at Mayor Moon Landrieu's private Mardi Gras reception held at City Hall, playing in Jackson Square and other venues during the day. ASFB also performed at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, playing as headliners at the Man and His World pavilion. Following a series of concerts at \"Spring Break\" in Fort Lauderdale, national publications as diverse as Christianity Today, Rolling Stone Magazine and the National Courier began carrying articles about the group.\n\nSeveral of the band members were credentialed ministers, licensed with the Full Gospel Fellowship of Churches and Ministers International in Irving, Texas. With evangelistic fervor, they were obsessively focused on the work of \"winning the lost,\" stressing personal evangelism at all concert events. Indian reservations in Canada, mental institutions in Maine, prisons in Ohio, rotundas and halls of State office buildings, International Exposition Halls, camps of migrant workers, tents at County Fairs, Churches in most states east of the Mississippi, open-air platforms, Music Halls, military bases, colleges, amphitheaters, nursing homes, parking lots, street corners and hay lofts ― the band's flexibility allowed it to present a variety of musical expressions best serving the needs of evangelism. Creating their own label, \"Rock the World Enterprises\" [changed to \"War Again\" on the final recording], the group was entirely self-financed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816843", "title": "Ernesto Corripio y Ahumada", "text": "Ernesto Corripio y Ahumada\n\nErnesto Corripio y Ahumada (June 29, 1919 – April 10, 2008) was a cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He was Archbishop of Mexico in Mexico City (1977–1994) and was Primate of Mexico. In the consistory of June 30, 1979 in Vatican City Pope John Paul II created him Cardinal Priest of the titular church of \"Mary Immaculate of Tiburtino\".\n\nCorripio y Ahumada was ordained to the priesthood on October 15, 1942. He served as a diocesan priest in his hometown of Tampico for ten years. On December 27, 1952, Pope Pius XII appointed him auxiliary bishop of the Diocese of Tampico. On March 19, 1953, he was consecrated titular bishop of Zapara. On February 25, 1956, he became Bishop of the diocese.\n\nPope Paul VI elevated Corripio y Ahumada on July 25, 1967 to Archbishop of Antequera in the state of Oaxaca. On March 11, 1976, he was transferred to become Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Puebla de los Angeles in the state of Puebla. The Pope transferred Corripio y Ahumada once again on July 19, 1977 to the post of Archbishop of Mexico.\n\nUpon assuming the papal throne, Pope John Paul II appointed Corripio y Ahumada a member of the College of Cardinals. He was a member of various departments of the Roman Curia while serving his archdiocese.\n\nHe retired on September 29, 1994, and lost the right to participate in a conclave when he reached 80 in 1999.\n\nHe died on April 10, 2008 in his house in La Noria, Xochimilco in Mexico City, after complications related to deep thrombosis in his left arm. He is buried in the crypt of Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816851", "title": "Nayan Doshi", "text": "Nayan Doshi\n\nNayan Dilip Doshi (born 6 October 1978, Nottingham) is an English cricketer, who was released by Derbyshire. He is the son of Dilip Doshi, who is a former Indian Test bowler. Doshi, a left arm spin bowler, first played for Surrey in June 2004, after already playing for the Indian side Saurashtra in the Ranji Trophy.\n\nAt the end of the 2006 cricket season, Doshi signed a two-year contract with Surrey, which was to end after the 2008 season. On 19 July 2007, Surrey announced that this contract had been terminated at Doshi's request.\n\nDoshi then signed a short-term deal with Warwickshire until the end of the 2007 season. Doshi was due to make his debut in Warwickshire's County Championship match against Sussex on 8 August that year. However, he was unable to do so owing to confusion surrounding the registration process.\n\nNayan Doshi is currently the world's second-placed Twenty20 wicket taker, having taken 59 wickets from 39 matches. Only Tyron Henderson has taken more, with 60 in 52 matches. Doshi was also the first bowe]].\n\n"}
{"id": "1816853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816853", "title": "Saleh Kebzabo", "text": "Saleh Kebzabo\n\nSaleh Kebzabo (, born 27 March 1947 in Léré, Chad) is a Chadian politician. He is the President of the National Union for Democracy and Renewal (UNDR) and a Deputy in the National Assembly of Chad.\n\nKebzabo was a director at the Chadian Press Agency, a member of the Democratic Movement for the Restoration of Chad (MDRT), and was a journalist at \"Jeune Afrique\" and \"Demain l'Afrique\". He was subsequently the founder of \"N'Djaména Hebdo\", Chad's first independent newspaper. He was a consul in Douala, Cameroon, but was expelled from Cameroon by President Paul Biya due to his support for Biya's predecessor, Ahmadou Ahidjo.\n\nHe was one of the founding members of the UNDR political party in December 1992. In April 1993, following the Sovereign National Conference, he was appointed as Minister of Trade and Industry in the government of Prime Minister Fidèle Moungar. This government lasted only six months before the Higher Transitional Council (CST) approved a censure motion against it.\n\nAccused of working with rebels, in September 1995 Kebzabo was arrested and held for five days. Prior to the arrest, his home was searched without a warrant at night on August 30. Kebzabo was released after the opposition protested his detention, and he filed suit against the officials who were responsible for the incident.\n\nKebzabo's primary support base is in Mayo-Kebbi. He was a candidate in the June 1996 presidential election, placing third with 8.61% of the vote; he then backed President Idriss Déby for the second round. After Déby's victory, Kebzabo became Minister of Foreign Affairs in August 1996, serving in that position until he was named Minister of State for Public Works, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development on May 21, 1997. He was elected to the National Assembly as an UNDR candidate in the first round of the 1997 parliamentary election, although he remained in the government and did not take his seat.\n\nKebzabo became Minister of State for Mines, Energy, and Oil in a cabinet reshuffle on January 1, 1998, but he was dismissed from the government on May 11, 1998, along with two other UNDR ministers. Regarding his dismissal, he said that his goals could be achieved outside of the government. In December 1999, he was named Minister of State for Agriculture in the government of Prime Minister Nagoum Yamassoum.\n\nOn April 1, 2001, Kebzabo was again nominated as the UNDR's presidential candidate for that year's election. He was subsequently removed from his position as Minister of State for Agriculture on April 8; the other UNDR members of the government were also dismissed. Prior to this he was considered the second ranking member of the government, after the prime minister. It was speculated that Kebzabo chose to run for President on this occasion because he had been unsuccessful in negotiating with Déby for the post of Prime Minister. Kebzabo later said that he had participated in the government in the belief that by doing so he could undermine Déby from within the system, and that as a result he believed the UNDR was a \"permanent target\" of Déby.\n\nIn the presidential election, held on May 20, 2001, he placed third with 7% of the vote. In late May he was twice detained briefly by police, along with five other opposition candidates.\n\nIn the April 2002 parliamentary election, Kebzabo was elected to the National Assembly as a UNDP candidate from Léré constituency in Mayo-Dallah Department, and he became President of the Democratic Parliamentary Group during the parliamentary term that followed the election.\n\nAccording to Kebzabo, on February 3, 2008, during a battle between government forces and rebels in N'Djamena, soldiers came to Kebzabo's home to arrest him, but he was travelling at the time. He said that the soldiers fired at his brother. In a statement on February 26, he and another opposition leader, Wadel Abdelkader Kamougué, released a statement calling for \"the immediate convening of an all-inclusive national dialogue\", the release of the three opposition leaders who had been arrested, along with an international inquiry into the arrests, and an immediate cease-fire.\n\nAlthough the UNDR is a member of the Coordination of Political Parties for the Defense of the Constitution (CPDC), and the CPDC chose to join the government of Prime Minister Youssouf Saleh Abbas in April 2008, Kebzabo declined to take a post in the government, saying that he preferred that someone else from his party enter the government instead. Kebzabo said that his party work in the UNDR was absorbing him at the time; he described this work as \"an enriching experience\" and said that he was already beginning preparations for the planned 2009 parliamentary election.\n\nIn June 2017, members of the FONAC opposition coalition argued that the National Assembly became illegitimate by continuing to sit beyond 21 June, two years after the extension of the parliamentary term, and that deputies from the opposition should consequently resign. Opposition deputies led by Saleh Kebzabo responded that they would not resign, feeling that it would be more \"useful\" for them to remain in the National Assembly; however, they also said that the next election should be held promptly, dismissing Déby's view that the delay was necessary due to a lack of funds, and that in the future the government should make every effort to hold elections on time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816858", "title": "Henry Clay Payne", "text": "Henry Clay Payne\n\nHenry Clay Payne (November 23, 1843 – October 4, 1904) was U.S. Postmaster General from 1902 to 1904 under Pres. Theodore Roosevelt. He died in office and was buried at Forest Home Cemetery in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He was also a chairman of the Republican National Committee.\n\nPayne was born in Ashfield, Franklin County, Massachusetts, on November 23, 1843, though his birth is sometimes listed incorrectly as September 23. He spent his youth in Massachusetts, and attempted to enlist for the Union Army, but he was rejected from service due to poor health. In 1859, he was graduated from the Academy of Shelburne Falls. In 1863, he moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where he found work as a dry goods merchant.\nIn 1872 he began his political career with the Young Men's Republican Club of Milwaukee County. He worked his way up to become secretary and then chairman for the organization. In 1876, Payne was appointed Postmaster of Milwaukee, a position he held for the next ten years. He transferred his organizational skills to his next position as president of Wisconsin Telephone Company in 1885, and successively served as director for the First National Bank of Milwaukee and president of the Milwaukee and Northern Railroad, The Milwaukee Electric Railway and Light Company and the Milwaukee and Cream City Traction Company. In his duties as president of Milwaukee Electric Railway and Light, Payne instituted free park concerts at many of Milwaukee's parks, including Lake Park. In 1893 he was elected president of the American Street Railway Association in recognition for his service to the street railways of Milwaukee, and later in August 1893, he was appointed receiver for the bankrupt Northern Pacific Railway.\n\nHe died on October 4, 1904.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816859", "title": "Bloor Street United Church", "text": "Bloor Street United Church\n\nBloor Street United Church is a United Church of Canada church in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is located downtown near the intersection with Huron Street. It is just north of the University of Toronto, and between the Spadina and St. George subway stations.\n\nAs with many of the downtown Toronto churches, Bloor United is noted for its progressivism. Three Bloor Street ministers have become Moderator of the United Church of Canada, George C. Pidgeon, Ernest M. Howse, and Bruce McLeod. Robert Baird McClure was also Moderator 1968–1971 and a member of this congregation though a layman and not its minister. The affirming congregation is led by the Reverend Martha Ter Kuile. The church has a large choir and a strong music program led by David Passmore. The congregation has a strong commitment to helping refugees, and has a program devoted to helping Latin American refugees become permanent members of Canadian society. In addition, there are groups dedicated to helping grandmothers caring for AIDS orphans in Africa.\n\nThe children's program includes Sunday school classes for ages 4–18, with a special tween/teen group called Youth on Bloor.\n\nThe church began as a Presbyterian congregation in 1887 to serve the rapidly growing population of then-northern Toronto with the church building opening in 1890. In 1924, the church voted by a substantial majority to join the United Church. Three years later, a portion of the church was demolished when the city decided to widen Bloor Street.\n\nThe church grew greatly in size in the 1940s and 1950s as an influx of immigrants arrived in the area. The congregation was so large that on several occasions Massey Hall was rented to hold some services. It was decided to renovate the church, however, in 1954 as these were nearing completion a fire broke out and the church was badly damaged and most of the sanctuary destroyed. Money was quickly raised to rebuild the church and in the interim the congregation met at nearby churches and Convocation Hall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816863", "title": "Henry Payne", "text": "Henry Payne\n\nHenry Payne may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816875", "title": "The Roof (Back in Time)", "text": "The Roof (Back in Time)\n\n\"The Roof (Back in Time)\" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey, taken from her sixth studio album, \"Butterfly\" (1997). It was released as the third single from the album in Europe, on March 20, 1998 by Columbia Records. Similar to the treatments of \"Butterfly\" and \"Breakdown\", \"The Roof\" received a limited worldwide release due to Carey's conflict at the time with Sony. The song was written and produced by Carey and Trackmasters, and is built around a sample from \"Shook Ones (Part II)\" (1995) by American hip hop duo Mobb Deep. The song's lyrics recount an intimate roof-top encounter between lovers, and how the memory affects the protagonist. The extended remix features a rap verse by Mobb Deep; both versions were praised by contemporary music critics.\n\nIn the music video, Carey is seen in a limousine recounting an encounter she shared on a rainy night. Additionally, past scenes of the event are shown, with Carey caressing her lover at a roof-top party. During the video's climax, Carey open the limousine's sun-roof and stands in the rain, trying to recapture the moments she shared in the rain. Carey performed the song live during her Butterfly World Tour in 1998. Due to the song's limited release, \"The Roof\" did not chart in most major music markets, with the exception of The Netherlands and the United Kingdom, where it peaked at numbers 63 and 96, respectively.\n\nIn addition, \"The Roof\" was added to Carey's compilation album \"The Ballads\" (2009).\n\n\"The Roof\" was released on July 28, 1998 by Columbia Records. The song is a slow and sultry song, which blends hip-hop and contemporary R&B genres. It incorporates drum notes, including heavy beats and grooves. The song's second version features a rap version from Mobb Deep. The song samples the melody from \"Shook Ones Part II\" by Mobb Deep, incorporating it into chorus and bridge. As part of \"layering the song,\" background vocals are featured throughout the chorus and sections of the bridge. It is set in the signature common time, and is written in the key of B-flat minor. It features a basic chord progression of A-F. Carey's vocal range in the song spans from the low note of E to the high note of F; the piano and guitar pieces range from F to G as well. The song contains choral lyrics written by Carey, who produced the song's melody and chorus as well. Aside from assisting with its chord progression, Cory Rooney co-arranged and produced the track as well. Author Chris Nickson felt the song was extremely important for Carey's musical transition, writing \"Lyrically, this was some of her best work ever, the melody slinky and overtly sexy, confirmation – as if any was needed at this point! – that this was the new Mariah.\"\n\n\"The Roof\" was acclaimed by contemporary music critics for its choice of vocal work, instrumentation and lyrics. David Browne from \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the song as well as Carey's choice of vocals, writing \"Carey is still a vocal grandstander capable of turning all into a six-syllable word. Yet for most of the album she keeps her notorious octave-climbing chops at bay. Showing some admirable restraint, she nestles herself into the downy-soft beats of 'The Roof'.\" Rich Juzwiak from Slant wrote \"Little more than yearning, kissing, and remembering happens during the course of 'The Roof,' a rough-enough R&B revision of Mobb Deep's 'The Shook Ones.' But lyrically Mariah the writer is vivid, sometimes shockingly clever (rhyming 'liberated' with 'Moet' is a stroke of genius).\"\n\n\"The Roof\" was chosen as the third single from \"Butterfly\", receiving an airplay-only release. Because of conflict between Carey and her record label at the time, Sony Music Entertainment, it was only given a commercial release in Europe, while \"Breakdown\" was released throughout Oceania. In the UK, the song peaked at number 96 during the week of April 4, 1998. \"The Roof\" stayed in the UK Singles Chart for one week before falling outside the top 100. In the Netherlands, it performed weakly as well, peaking at number 63 while spending five weeks fluctuating in the Single Top 100.\n\nThe music video for \"The Roof\" garnered critical acclaim, and was ranked 18th on Slant's \"100 Greatest Music Videos\". Sal Ciquemani, from \"Slant\", gave the video a positive review, complimenting Carey's choice to pair the sultry song with a \"sophisticated tale of a sexy rooftop encounter\". The video re-tells a story of Carey reminiscing a past love and a night they shared together on a rainy roof-top. The video's setting revolves around a dark limousine, a decrepit NYC apartment, and a rainy roof-top, where \"Carey is featured at her most vulnerable, with runny mascara and drenched in the cold rainy night.\" In the conclusion of his review of the video, Ciquemani wrote: \"When Carey rises through the limo's sunroof and relishes the warm November rain, she's not drunk on the bubbly but on the memory of past delights.\"\n\nThe video was directed by Carey and Diane Martel during the spring of 1998. The music video begins with Carey sitting alone in a limousine, recalling a night she shared some time previous. As scenes of Carey reminiscing in the limo are shown, clips of her dressing in an old apartment are presented. Eventually, Carey joins a roof-top party one night, where she begins dancing and caressing her lover. As the passion between them grown, rain begins to fall, showering everyone atop the edifice. As these scenes end, Carey in the present opens the sun-roof of the limo and stands into the rainy night, trying to recapture those magical moments she shared on that rainy roof-top encounter. The video ends with a wet Carey lying in the back of the limousine, sad and lonely.\n\n\"The Roof\" was performed few times throughout Carey's career. The song was performed during her Butterfly World Tour in 1998. During the performances, live male and female dancers were present on stage, grooving and performing classic routines. Carey wore a short beige ensemble and performed light classical dances, alongside a male partner. The song was performed on select dates of Carey's 2014 The Elusive Chanteuse Show tour. Carey would later perform a snippet of it acapella during her set at Jimmy Kimmel Live! while promoting \"#1 To Infinity\", later expressing to be happy at the fact the audience knew the lyrics to the song.\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"Butterfly\" liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816879", "title": "Abyssinian Baptist Church", "text": "Abyssinian Baptist Church\n\nThe Abyssinian Baptist Church, located at 132 West 138th Street between Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard and Lenox Avenue in the Harlem neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City, was built in 1922–23 and was designed by Charles W. Bolton & Son in Gothic Revival and Tudor Revival styles – it has also been described as \"Collegiate Gothic\". It features stained glass windows and marble furnishings.\n\nDuring the 20th century, prominent ministers of the church included Adam Clayton Powell Sr. and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Over the years, the church has served as a place for African American spirituality, politics and community. The Abyssinian Baptist Church congregation traces its history to 1809, when seamen from the Ethiopian Empire (then known as Abyssinia) helped lead a protest against segregated church seating. It worshiped in several places before building the present church structure.\n\nThe church and its associated community house were designated a New York City Landmark on July 13, 1993.\n\nThe congregation began after an incident in 1808, when visiting free Ethiopian seamen and allied African-American parishioners left the First Baptist Church in protest over being restricted to racially segregated seating. They named their new congregation the Abyssinian Baptist Church after the historic name of Ethiopia. \n\nThe congregation worshiped at a number of places: first on the corner of William and Frankfort Streets, then at 44 Anthony (Worth) Street until the mortgage upon the church was foreclosed upon in 1854, at which time the congregation worshipped temporarily at 356 Broadway. Then in 1856 they established themselves at 166 Waverly Place in Greenwich Village, an area then sometimes called \"little Africa.\" It was during their time here that the church was split into two \"warring\" factions, one for the Rev. William M. Spelman, who had been with them since 1855, and one desiring his removal. In 1885, Rev. Spelman was ousted from the pulpit, at which time he and his followers went to another church on 37th Street. In 1902 the congregation moved uptown with the movement of the African American population, to 242 West 40th Street, and from there to a tent pitched next to the future site of Marcus Garvey's Liberty Hall in Harlem, where the size of the congregation increased dramatically thanks to the preaching of Adam Clayton Powell, Sr., who had become the pastor in 1908. The church purchased property on the same street for a new sanctuary, paid for by tithes and offerings.\n\nBy 1930, the church had 13,000 members, making it the largest African-American church in New York City, and the largest Baptist congregation in the world. Powell handed the reins of the church to his son Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. in 1937. Powell became the first black Congressman from New York City, and served 14 terms in the United States House of Representatives. Powell's \"charisma, power, and notoriety\", as well as his \"spellbinding\" preaching were the driving force behind the church's significant influence in the African American community at the time.\n\nThe funeral of David Baldwin, preacher and step-father of author James Baldwin, took place in the Abyssinian Baptist Church, during the wake of the 1943 Harlem riot. James Baldwin wrote of attending his father's funeral in his most famous essay, 1955's Notes of a Native Son.\n\nCivil Rights Foot Soldier Fannie Pennington was an active lifelong member. Raphael Warnock was an assistant pastor and youth pastor at Abyssinian.\n\nThe church was an important site for religious music during the Harlem Renaissance, and remains a center of the Harlem gospel tradition. Fats Waller played the organ at Abyssinian when his father, Edward Martin Waller, was a minister at the church. Among many important events, the church conducted the wedding of Nat King Cole and his bride Maria, and the funeral of \"The Father of Blues\", W.C. Handy, in 1958.\n\nAdam Clayton Powell, Jr. was followed by Samuel DeWitt Proctor, and he by Calvin O. Butts. Under the direction of Butts, the church has continued to be a vital political, social, and religious institution in New York. In 1989 Butts founded the Abyssinian Development Corporation (ADC), creating a non-profit arm of the church to work on community development and social services. It has created $500 million in development, including the first new high school in Harlem in 50 years, the first large supermarket, a retail center, and housing.\n\nIn 1989, the church was one of the first to respond to Pernessa C. Seele's call for a Harlem Week of Prayer, started to mobilize the religious community in support of people with AIDS and their families. Seele has since founded Balm in Gilead, Inc., now an international non-profit providing education and prevention for HIV/AIDS, and developing other health initiatives in the United States, Africa and Caribbean.\n\nNotes\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1816882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816882", "title": "Inventio Fortunata", "text": "Inventio Fortunata\n\nInventio Fortunata (also Inventio Fortunate, Inventio Fortunat or Inventio Fortunatae), \"\"Fortunate, or fortune-making, discovery\"\", is a lost book, probably dating from the 14th century, containing a description of the North Pole as a magnetic island (the Rupes Nigra) surrounded by a giant whirlpool and four continents. No direct extracts from the document have been discovered, but its influence on the Western idea of the geography of the Arctic region persisted for several centuries.\n\nThe book is said to be a travelogue written by a 14th-century Franciscan (Minorite) friar from Oxford who travelled the North Atlantic region in the early 1360s, making some half-a-dozen journeys conducting business on behalf of the King of England (Edward III). He described what he found on his first journey to the islands beyond 54 degrees north in a book, \"Inventio Fortunata\", which he presented to the King.\n\nUnfortunately, by the time Atlantic explorers were seeking information in the 1490s, the \"Inventio\" had gone missing, and was only known through a summary in a second text, the \"Itinerarium,\" written by a Brabantian traveller from 's-Hertogenbosch named Jacobus Cnoyen (also known as James Cnoyen or Jakob van Knoyen; modern Knox). As will be discussed below, Cnoyen's summary was the basis for the depiction of the Arctic region on many maps, one of the earliest being Martin Behaim's 1492 globe. By the late 16th century, even Cnoyen's text was missing, so most of what we know of the contents of the \"Inventio Fortunata\", other than its use on maps, is found in a letter from the Flemish cartographer Gerardus Mercator to the English astronomer John Dee dated April 20, 1577, now located in the British Museum.\n\nCnoyen's information came in a very round-about way. In 1364, a priest from one of the Atlantic islands had returned to Norway, bringing with him an astrolabe which he had received from the visiting Franciscan friar, in exchange for a religious book. He made a detailed report to the King of Norway. Copies still survive of a social and geographical description of Greenland by a local church official named Ivar Bardarson, who turns up in Norwegian records in 1364, so this much of Cnoyen's story tallies well with reality (although this report does not contain the sort of personal information relayed by Cnoyen). Cnoyen seems to have obtained his information from Norwegian sources some time later, neither he nor the priest having actually seen the \"Inventio\".\n\nCnoyen's account (originally in his own language; translations here based on Eva Taylor's version) mixes probable fact with what may have been his own attempts to research the background, stating that Greenland was first settled at the orders of King Arthur, whose army supposedly conquered the North Atlantic islands. He also refers to the \"indrawing seas\"- currents which drew ships northward, so that:\n\nOf the visiting Franciscan, Cnoyen (or Mercator) summarised the priest's report thus:\n\nIn reality, the \"book\" may have been a detailed report, intended mainly to highlight the commercial possibilities offered by the North Atlantic following the decline of Norwegian interest in its colonies.\n\nMercator's contemporary, the 16th-century English historian Richard Hakluyt, identifies the author of the \"Inventio\" as Nicholas of Lynn. Hakluyt apparently arrived at this conclusion because of Geoffrey Chaucer's mention of Nicholas in his \"Treatise on the Astrolabe.\" Hakluyt did not himself, of course, have a copy of the \"Inventio.\"\n\nNicholas was alive at the right time (very roughly -- he is quite likely to have been a child in 1360), and had the right skills, but he was a Carmelite friar, not a Franciscan, and no earlier biographer indicates that he spent years travelling back and forth across the Atlantic on government business. There is another possible candidate, about whom, unfortunately, almost nothing is known. According to early 16th century literary historian John Bale, an Irishman named Hugh, who was a Franciscan, travelled widely in the 14th century, and wrote \"a certain journey in one volume\" -- but again, whether or not this was the \"Inventio\", no copy of it is known.\n\nThe concept of the pole as a magnetic mountain goes back at least to Roman times, but the author of \"Inventio Fortunata\" added other features to the picture as well as measurements. Whether or not the \"Inventio\" is the source of the medieval concept of the North Pole as a magnetic mountain surrounded by a circular continent divided by four powerful rivers, maps as early as Martin Behaim's 1492 globe depict the region in this way. \n\nJohannes Ruysch's \"Universalior cogniti orbis tabula\" from 1508, features a marginal note mentioning the \"Inventio Fortunata:\"\nGerardus Mercator's world map of 1569 reflects his reading of Cnoyen's \"Itinerarium.\" It also features a marginal note alluding to the Franciscan's \"discovery\", but not to the book itself, which he never saw: \n\nThe Arctic map inset on Mercator's 1569 world map was the prototype for the influential and widely circulated \"Septentrionalium Terrarum\" of 1595, posthumously published by his son, and the maps in Ortelius's \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\" of 1570. Both show the same configuration of the arctic regions as the 1569 map.\n\nIn his letter to Dee, Mercator further quotes Cnoyen's description of the Northern regions: \n\nThe persistence of this idea of the geography of the far north persisted throughout the 16th and 17th century. This is probably due to the influence of Ruysch, Mercator, and Ortelius. Maps were only revised when the region was explored and mapmakers obtained knowledge of the true geography of the Arctic.\n\nMore interesting to modern researchers are the people the friar encountered, \"pygmies\" who may well be identical with the Skraelings referred to in old Norse texts about Greenland, predecessors of the modern Inuit.\n\nIn 1956 a letter referring to the existence of the book was found in the \"Archivo General de Simancas\" (Spain) from the English merchant John Day to \"The Most Magnificent And Most Worthy Lord - The Lord Grand Admiral\" (presumably Christopher Columbus).\n\nIn the letter, written in either December 1497 or January 1498, John Day says, \n\n"}
{"id": "1816883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816883", "title": "Regents Examinations", "text": "Regents Examinations\n\nIn New York State, Regents Examinations are statewide standardized examinations in core high school subjects. Students are required to pass these exams in order to earn a Regents Diploma. To graduate, students are required to have earned appropriate credits in a number of specific subjects by passing year-long or half-year courses, after which they must pass at least five Regents examinations in some of the subject areas. For higher-achieving students, a Regents with Advanced designation and an Honors designation are also offered. Students with disabilities or enrolled in an English as a Second Language program are able to earn a local diploma.\n\nStudents with mild disabilities are generally placed in special education Regents prep courses, which will lead them to either a local or Regents diploma if indicated in their documents. Students with moderate to severe disabilities who are deemed unable to pass the Regents exams can earn a Career Development and Occupational Studies Commencement Credential, which will lead them to a local diploma.\n\nThe Regents Examinations are developed and administered by the New York State Education Department (NYSED) under the authority of the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York. Regents exams are prepared by a conference of selected New York teachers of each test's specific discipline who assemble a test map that highlights the skills and knowledge required from the specific discipline's learning standards. The conferences meet and design the tests three years before the tests' issuance, which includes time for field testing and evaluating testing questions. \n\"At the close of each academic term, a public examination shall be held of all scholars presumed to have completed preliminary studies…To each scholar who sustains such examination, a certificate shall entitle the other person holding it to admission into the academic class in any academy subject to the visitation of the Regents, without further examination.\"\n\nThe legislature’s intent in establishing the Regents Examination system is described in the ordinance. The central idea of the legislation was to create an educational control system that could be used to regulate the flow of funds to the well established academy system of schools that existed throughout the state of New York. This goal would be accomplished by\nThe new class of students would be called the “academic class,” and those students who qualified for admission to it by sustaining a process of examination would be known as “academic scholars.” Academic scholars, and the institutions with which they were affiliated, would receive recognition and privilege under New York’s school funding formula.\n\nThe focus of the ordinance was on assessing student achievement in the preliminary, or elementary curricula. In essence, the examinations were being positioned in the primary role of gatekeeper between the primary and secondary schools of the state of New York. The need for a gatekeeper examination system was due in part to the state’s 1864 school funding formula, which allocated public funds to private academies based on criteria that included the number of enrolled students. Typically, the academies used money distributed from the state literature fund to offset operating expenses, and any expenses in excess of funds received from the State were passed on to students and their families in the form of “rate bills.” Under this system, individual academies could realize economic advantages by lowering academic standards and enrolling less qualified students. In 1864, during a time of war, the New York legislature became concerned about this issue of who was and who was not qualified to be enrolled in the common, mostly private academies of the state and also in the rare, public high schools of the state. The timing of the legislature’s concern and actions in 1864 may have been related to two conditions that existed during the Civil War: the military’s need for young men of fighting age and a period of fiscal austerity in school funding.\n\nThe first Regents Examinations were administered in November 1866. In 1878, the Regents Examination system was expanded to assess the curricula taught in the secondary schools of New York, and the Regents exams were first administered as high school end-of-course exams. From the original five exams (algebra, Latin, American History, natural philosophy [science], natural geography), the State Education Department expanded the Regents Exams offerings to forty-two tests in 1879; tests were administered in November, February, and June. In 1901, Regents Exams were given in rhetoric, civics, economics, Caesar, Virgil, Xenophon, and physiology.\n\nThroughout the 1920s and into the 1930s vocational education Regents Exams were approved and administered. These included but were not limited to, agricultural science, costume draping, and salesmanship. By 1970 the number and types of Regents Exams changed to reflect the changes in high school curriculum: vocational exams were discontinued, and the sheer number of exams were either dropped or consolidated as the curricular emphasis trended toward comprehensive examinations rather than the singularly focused tests of the past. This trend continued into the twenty-first century, with the cancellation of foreign language exams in 2010 and 2011.\n\nIn 1979, Regents Competency Tests were introduced for all students - in order to graduate students had to pass the RCT OR the Regents exam. Later, they were offered only to students with disabilities. They were discontinued after the class of 2015. In 2000, New York State Alternative Assessments (NYSAA) program was first administered allowing students with severe cognitive disabilities to complete a datafolio-style assessment to demonstrate their performance toward achieving the New York State learning standards.\n\nThe June 2020 exams were not administered as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The August 2020 exams were also cancelled because of it.\n\nDue to budget cuts, in June 2010 the Board of Regents voted to cancel 7th Grade regents (Integrated Algebra, Geometry, and Living Environment) for students who were in 7th grade Honors/Accelerated Programs in Mathematics or in Science. German, Latin, and Hebrew Regents foreign language exams were also cancelled, and students studying those languages are now allowed to take a locally developed examination to demonstrate competency.\n\nOn May 16, 2011, in the face of an $8 million budget gap, the Board of Regents voted to reduce the number of tests administered. The remaining foreign language exams (French, Italian, and Spanish) were eliminated, although districts may administer locally developed foreign language exams to let students attain a Regents Diploma with Advanced Designation. Tests administered during the month of January were to be canceled. In August 2011, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and five private donors contributed funds to ensure that the Regents was administered in January 2012, although the foreign language exams remained cancelled.\n\nRegent scores are invalid for students that need three or fewer points to pass and are from schools that are viewed as struggling; such students can move on to next course without a regent score.\n\nStudents graduating in 2012 (who were 9th grade students in 2008) are the first cohort of students required to take all five Regents Exams with a passing score of 65 and obtain a Regents Diploma to graduate. Previously, school districts had been permitted to offer a Local Diploma, with less stringent requirements than the Regents Diploma. Requirements have gradually been increased in recent years.\n\nTest security procedures were heightened in response to the Stuyvesant High School cheating scandal. Effective August 2012, test proctors must collect and hold electronic devices for the duration of the exams; students are no longer permitted to have these devices on or near them. Previously, possession of electronic devices was allowed as long as they were not in use.\n\nThe Regents exams in ELA, and Algebra I were changed to incorporate the Common Core Standards starting in June 2014. Starting in June 2015, the Geometry regents will incorporate the Common Core, and in June 2016, the Algebra II regents will as well. High school students will be allowed to continue graduating with minimum scores of 65 on state exams until 2022. At that point, required scores would rise to 75 on English exams and 80 in algebra—levels deemed evidence of readiness for college.\n\n\nMost Regents exams are three hours long. The exception is the Earth Science exam, which consists of a 41-minute (approximate) laboratory component usually given up to two weeks prior to the three-hour written exam. Most Regents exams are structured in the following format: \n\nIn 2005, the Board of Regents began modifying the mathematics curriculum. An integrated approach that taught topics in geometry and algebra during each of three years, with exams normally taken after a year and a half and again after three years, was replaced by a curriculum that divides topics into Algebra I, Geometry, and Algebra II/Trigonometry. Each of these take the form of a one-year course with a Regents Examination at the end of the year. The \"Math A\" and \"Math B\" exams have been eliminated and are replaced by \"Integrated Algebra\", \"Geometry\", and \"Algebra II and Trigonometry\".\n\nBeginning in January 2011, the English Language Arts exam was reduced from a six-hour exam to a three-hour exam. The exam still contains essay components, but has greater emphasis on reading comprehension and less on writing.\n\nThe format of the laboratory practical for Earth Science was changed in 2008. Currently, it consists of three sections, each with a time limit of nine minutes. While administering the test, there are multiple stations for each section. Each station uses different data, but the same task. For example, each section 1 station may have different rocks and minerals, though the task is the same.\n\nThe New York State Regents Exams are the following:\n\n\nThe Latin, German, Greek, and Hebrew language exams were removed after the 2009–10 school year, and the remaining language exams (Italian, Spanish, and French) were removed after the 2010–11 school year. Previously, a Regents foreign language exam was an option that would allow for Regents Exam with Advanced Designation. Currently, local school districts can develop their own exams to assess foreign language competency and allow for students to meet the Advanced Designation requirement.\n\nLocal Diplomas are offered by New York State school districts for students who did not pass the Regents Diploma requirements. For students entering 9th grade in September 2019 and thereafter, the Local Diploma is only offered to disabled students, and the rest of the students must attain at least a Regents Diploma. Advanced and Honors designations are available for exemplary students. In addition to the Regents exam requirements, there are additional requirements for attaining a Regents or Regents with Advanced Designation Diploma, which are described in a NYSED handout titled \"General Education & Diploma Requirements\", and are codified in Section 100.5 of the Part 100 Regulations of the Commissioner of Education.\n\nStudents must achieve a score of 65 (55 for Special Education students) or higher on Regents Exams to pass. However this only qualifies for a local diploma as long as they compensate with a score of 65 or higher on another Regents exam. Students with disabilities still must earn minimum 55 scores on Regents exams in Comprehensive English and math. NYSED considers a score of 75 to 80 to indicate college readiness, with a score of 75 to 85 being a cutoff for admission for some selective colleges and universities and a score below 75 being a threshold for placement in remediation for some schools, including SUNY and CUNY schools.\n\nStudents with an Individualized Education Program or 504 plan are able to obtain a local diploma through 'safety nets'. Similar to the regents diploma, the local diploma is recognized as a high school diploma, which would allow the student to attend college, enroll in the military, and have jobs that require a high school diploma. General Education students can only obtain the local diploma by appealing 2 regents exams. Students with disabilities must still have the appropriate number of credits to graduate. \n\nStudents who have an English as a Second Language are also able to obtain the local diploma simply by scoring 55 or higher in all 5 regents examinations required for high school graduation. \n\nThe safety nets include:\n\n· Low Pass option: Which students must earn at least 55-64 on a required regents exam to qualify for a local diploma. Students who score 52-54 can appeal that score. This option is available to all students with disabilities or with an English as a Second Language program. \n\n· Compensatory option: Students who score 45-54 on a required regents exam, but scores 65 or higher on another regents exam is able to compensate the 45-54 score using the 65+ score. The compensatory option may not be used to compensate the English or Math Regents exams, but the student may use the English and Math regents to compensate another regents exam scored 45-54 as long as they scored 65 or higher. This option is available to all students with disabilities only.\n\nIn 2014, the Board of Regents created the 4+1 option, where students must pass at least 4 regents exams—one per subject—and pass one additional Regents exam in any subject.\n\nStudents must score 65 or higher in:\n\nStudents must score 65 or higher in:\nLote Exam in any Language that's not English\n\nThe New York State Board of Regents offers the following honors to students with exemplary academic performance:\n\nThe scores reported for regents exams are not a sum or percentage of questions answered correctly. Instead, raw scores on the tests are converted on a curve to the officially reported scale scores. This curve is customized to each year's group of tests. For example, for the Regents Examination in Algebra I given January 2019, a raw score on the test of 27 points (out of 86; so, 31% correct) would be given a scaled score of 65, that is, considered \"proficient\" for the purposes of being awarded the Regents Diploma. \n\nDuring the 1990s, some alternative assessment schools were founded in parts of New York in an attempt to provide a way for students to graduate from high school without taking any Regents Exams. Usually, the substitute graduation assessment consisted of a review and grading, by a panel of teachers, of an academic portfolio — a collection of the student's best work from all his or her years at the school. From such a \"portfolio examination\" would be issued a \"Regents equivalency\" grade for the areas of Math, English, History, and Science, and a \"Regents Equivalency\" diploma would be awarded to the student at commencement. Students enrolled in these schools do, however, take the English Regents exam as a part of the New York State school accountability system. \n\nThough all public schools are required to follow either the Regents Exam system or some form of alternative assessment, private schools need not. The vast majority of private schools do use Regents exams and award Regents diplomas, but some, usually academically prestigious private schools, do not. These schools' argument is that their own diploma requirements exceed Regents standards. Schools run by the Society of Jesus, such as Canisius High School, Fordham Prep, McQuaid Jesuit, Regis and Xavier, and by the Society of Mary (Marianists), such as Chaminade and Kellenberg, have not used Regents exams for decades. The Masters School, The Ursuline School, The Hackley School, The Harvey School, Long Island Lutheran Middle & High School, Manlius Pebble Hill School, and Nichols School also do not use the Regents system.\n\nSome Advanced Placement exams and SAT subject tests are allowable by NYSED as substitutes for the Regents Examination for that subject (e.g., AP United States History in place of the U.S. History and Government Regents). NYSED has approved a small number of substitute exams and has published required scores for the exams.\n\nRegents Competency High School tests, or simply RCT's, are exit exams given to identified special education students with Individualized Education Programs or students with a 504 plan seeking a high school diploma but cannot pass the standard Regents exams. Like the Regents Examinations, the RCT is provided and overseen by NYSED, and is designed and administered under the authority of the Board of Regents.\n\nMost RCT's can be taken before a student takes the corresponding Regents exam. The RCT's are available for students until they graduate or when they turn 21. If the student still cannot pass all of the RCT exams, an Individualized Education Program Diploma (IEP Diploma) is awarded instead. The IEP Diploma is not the equivalent to a high school diploma, and rather is a certificate given to students who complete the twelfth grade but do not pass the standards based testing. The IEP Diploma is intended only for students with severe cognitive disabilities.\n\n\nThere are six RCTs that are administered. They can be taken in January, June, and August. The Global and U.S. History Regents Exam is the only exception that does not allow students to take the RCT tests before student fails the corresponding Regents Exam.\n\nBeginning in the 2011-2012 school year, in public schools, only students with disabilities who first enter ninth grade prior to September 2011 are eligible to take the RCTs. Additional information on eligibility for the RCT safety net option has been provided by NYSED.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816884", "title": "Lancashire Heeler", "text": "Lancashire Heeler\n\nThe Lancashire Heeler is a small breed of dog developed for use as a drover and herder of cattle. The Lancashire Heeler is listed by the Kennel Club (UK) as a vulnerable breed.\n\nThe coat is harsh and smooth with an undercoat which keeps the dog dry in all weathers. It may have a slight mane round the neck in winter. The dog is usually black and tan, but liver and tan is now recognised by the Kennel Club. They are slightly longer than height at withers, usually measures between at the shoulder and weighs . Ears can be tipped or erect.\n\nIt is alert, friendly, energetic, intelligent, playful and a pleasant companion. Personality can range from lazy and playful to energetic and talkative. It is actually a very strong dog that likes to participate in all kinds of activities, and can carry a ball or object the size of itself. The Lancashire Heeler is friendly towards its owners and passers-by on the street but may be aggressive towards an unknown character on their territory.\n\nThe Lancashire Heeler has a life expectancy of 12–15 years or more. The three most common serious conditions that can affect Heelers are Collie eye anomaly, Primary lens luxation and Persistent pupillary membranes. As well as these eye conditions, dogs of this breed may suffer from Patella luxation.\n\nThe origin of breed are unknown, however it is accepted that a type of Welsh Corgi was used to drive livestock to the north west of England from Wales. In the Ormskirk area, a type of black and tan terrier called the Manchester Terrier was introduced which resulted in what is now known as the Lancashire Heeler. The breed has been known in its home county for over a hundred and fifty years as a general purpose farm dog, capable of both ratting and herding cattle.\n\nGwen Mackintosh began to breed Heelers in the early 1960s. Together with other enthusiasts, she established the Lancashire Heeler Club in 1978, with the club setting a breed standard and register. Recognition by The Kennel Club followed in 1981. Mackintosh would continue to serve as the club's president until her death in 1992.\n\nThe breed was recognised as a vulnerable native breed by The Kennel Club in 2006, which means that annual registration figures are 300 or less for the breed. In 2006, 173 Heelers were registered in the UK, in 2007 this had decreased further to 146. In 2016, the FCI added the breed to the list of provisionally accepted breeds.\n\nLancashire Heelers can compete in dog agility trials, obedience, Rally obedience, showmanship, flyball, and herding events. Herding instincts and trainability can be measured at noncompetitive herding tests. Lancashire Heelers exhibiting basic herding instincts can be trained to compete in herding trials.\n"}
{"id": "1816895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816895", "title": "Self-fashioning", "text": "Self-fashioning\n\nSelf-fashioning, a term introduced by Stephen Greenblatt (\"Renaissance,Self-Fashioning\", 1980), is used to describe the process of constructing one's identity and public persona according to a set of socially acceptable standards. Greenblatt described the process in the Renaissance era where a noble man was instructed to dress in the finest clothing he could afford, to be well versed and educated in art, literature, sports, and other culturally determined noble exercises, and to generally compose himself in a carefully intended manner. Additionally, the relationship between self-fashioning and the aesthetic mediums was a reciprocal one. Just as the art of creating oneself was highly influenced by the art and literature of the time, such as conduct books and religious iconography, such a concern for one's outwardly projected image was reflected in the portraiture of the time.\n\nAccording to Greenblatt, during the Renaissance the upper class practiced self-fashioning. Prescribed attire and behavior was created for the noblemen and women, and were represented through portraits. The ideological traits portraying masculinity were symbols of authority and power. Male rulers depicted themselves in armor or with weapons. The most important characteristic attributed to women was beauty. Beauty represents the concepts of purity, virtue and modesty. In portraits, women performed these traits through idealized features, fancy dresses, and elaborate jewelry. The iconography of portraits displays the gender-specific qualities prescribed during the Renaissance through visual devices.\n\n\"The Book of the Courtier\", by Baldassare Castiglione, is one of the first texts that depicted behaviors which individuals were expected to adopt in society. As an informal book of conduct, \"The Courtier\" included instructions on how people of the noble class were to dress and speak, as well as general rules of interaction to follow in social situations. In his article \"The Semiotics of Masculinity in Renaissance England\", David Kuchta discusses the role of \"The Courtier\" concerning its influence on the self-fashioning of Renaissance England. Men of the noble class were to \"create\" themselves as works of art, according to the conventions of dress and manner as set forth by the monarchs. Characteristics of this Renaissance self-fashioning involve the use of \"feminine\" aspects of dress and conduct. A man was to conduct and dress in a way that reflected his position in society. He was not supposed to act in an affected manner, but present naturalness and nonchalance, or sprezzatura. In addition to, \"The Courtier\" puts emphasis on the importance of not only trying to resemble one's master, but actually trying to transform himself into his master in a way that exercises sprezzatura. This presents a key theme in self-fashioning: the conscious effort to strive to imitate a praised model in society.\n\nFor women, one of the most popular figures to imitate was the Virgin Mary. Margaret R. Miles provides a thorough analysis of this influence-through-images of iconography and art in her article \"The Virgin's One Bare Breast\". The bare breast symbolized nourishment in a time of famine. Depicting the Virgin Mary nursing the infant Christ encouraged women to aspire to provide the same nourishment for their own families and community. Miles goes on to explain that, although women were encouraged to strive to emulate the many virtues of the Virgin, they must also be aware that one could never fully achieve such a standard. Similarly, men were taught that they should follow in the image of Christ, which was believed to be more attainable.\n\nGreenblatt's theories are influenced by the French sociologist and historian Michel Foucault.\n\nSelf-fashioning has implications and applications outside of Renaissance studies. Waleska Schwandt applies the theory to Oscar Wilde in a chapter of the book \"The Importance of Reinventing Oscar: Versions of Wilde during the Last 100 Years\", edited by Uwe Boker et al. (New York and Amsterdam: Rodopi, 2002). Alvina E. Quintana uses the theory to analyse twentieth century Chicano literature (see \"Ana Castillo's \"The Mixquiahuala Letters\"\", in \"Criticism in the Borderlands: Studies in Chicano Literature, Culture and Ideology\", Hector Calderon and Jose David Saldivar (eds), Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1991, pp. 72–83). Jack Chen applies the concept to the writings of Emperor Taizong in a book titled \"the Poetics of Sovereignty: on Emperor Taizong of the Tang Dynasty,\" (Boston, Mass: Harvard University Asia Center, 2011). In a chapter of the 2018 textbook \"International Perspectives on Theorizing Aspirations: Applying Bourdieu’s Tools\", edited by Garth Stahl et al. (London, UK: Bloomsbury, 2018, pp. 44) in Steven Threadgold's chapter \"Bourdieu Is Not A Determinist\", Guy Mankowski applies the theory with reference to punk music, where self-fashioning is re-appropriated as 'self-design'.\n"}
{"id": "1816898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816898", "title": "Third Album", "text": "Third Album\n\nThird Album is the third studio album released by the Jackson 5 on Motown Records, and the group's second LP released in 1970. \n\n\"Third Album\" featured the group's fourth consecutive No. 1 single on the US pop charts, \"I'll Be There\", the Top 5 single, \"Mama's Pearl\", and album tracks such as the semi-autobiographical \"Goin' Back to Indiana\", and \"Darling Dear\". The album peaked at No. 4 on the \"Billboard\" album charts and No. 1 on the R&B album charts and also No. 1 on \"Cashbox\". This is considered one of their best efforts and is their most successful album to date. It sold over 6 million copies worldwide.\n\nAllmusic's Lindsay Planer rated \"Third Album\" four out of five stars. She stated that the album contains \"the unmistakable Motown sound, expanding just enough to incorporate other significant influences as well.\" She also stated that a few of the tracks \"are [...] worthwhile spins.\"\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nIn 2001, Motown Records remastered all J5 albums in a \"Two Classic Albums/One CD\" series (much like they did in the late 1980s). This album was paired up with \"Maybe Tomorrow\". The bonus tracks were \"Sugar Daddy\", the only new track on their 1971 greatest hits set, and \"I'm So Happy\", the B-side of that single.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816903", "title": "Isabella Jagiellon", "text": "Isabella Jagiellon\n\nIsabella Jagiellon (; ; 18 January 1519 – 15 September 1559) was the oldest child of Polish King Sigismund I the Old, the Grand Duke of Lithuania and his Italian wife Bona Sforza. In 1539, she married John Zápolya, Voivode of Transylvania and King of Hungary, becoming Queen consort of Hungary. At the time Hungary was contested between Archduke Ferdinand of Austria who wanted to add it to the Habsburg domains (see Royal Hungary), local nobles who wanted to keep Hungary independent (see Eastern Hungarian Kingdom), and Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent who saw it as a vassal state of the Ottoman Empire (see also Little War in Hungary). While Isabella's marriage lasted only a year and a half, it did produce a male heir – John Sigismund Zápolya born just two weeks before his father's death in July 1540. She spent the rest of her life embroiled in succession disputes on behalf of her son. Her husband's death sparked renewed hostilities but Sultan Suleiman established her as a regent of the eastern regions of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary on behalf of her infant son. The region developed as a semi-independent buffer state noted for its freedom of religion. Ferdinand, however, never renounced his claims to reunite Hungary and conspired with Bishop George Martinuzzi who forced Isabella to abdicate in 1551. She returned to her native Poland to live with her family. Sultan Suleiman retaliated and threatened to invade Hungary in 1555–56 forcing nobles to invite Isabella back to Transylvania. She returned in October 1556 and ruled as her son's regent until her death in September 1559.\n\nBorn in Kraków on 18 January 1519, Isabella was the oldest child of King Sigismund I the Old and his Italian wife Bona Sforza. She spent most of her childhood at Wawel Castle in Kraków and the hunting castle in Niepołomice. She also lived in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in 1527–29 and 1533–36. During the latter visit her three younger sisters were left in Kraków. This episode foreshadowed future family relationships: Bona Sforza favored her oldest daughter, arranging her marriage early, while the other three daughters were neglected and married late. Isabella received a good education, including from humanist Johannes Honter, and she could speak and write four languages: Polish, Latin, German, and Italian (her mother's native language).\n\nIn March 1519, when Isabella was just a two-month-old baby, French envoys proposed to marry Isabella with a future son of Francis I of France in exchange for Sigismund's support in the upcoming elections for the Holy Roman Emperor. Sigismund supported Charles V, but Bona continued to pursue a French marriage for Isabella. She hoped that King of France would install his son and Isabella in the Duchy of Milan which Bona claimed as her inheritance. In 1524, Hieronymus Łaski negotiated an anti-Turkish alliance with the French; among the provisions was marriage of Isabella and Henry, second son of Francis I. But this alliance failed after Francis was taken prisoner in the Battle of Pavia.\nBona then pursued an Italian marriage. Isabella of Naples, Isabella's grandmother, sent envoys to Poland to propose marriage to Francesco II Sforza, newly installed Duke of Milan. However, Sigismund refused as the duchy was contested and Francesco's hold was tenuous. Bona then proposed Federico II Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua, but he chose Margaret Paleologa as she brought March of Montferrat as her inheritance. Sigismund wanted a Habsburg marriage. In 1530, he proposed Maximilian, eldest son of Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, but they refused as Isabella was eight years older than the groom. When Habsburgs wanted to stop the proposed marriage between Isabella and John Zápolya, they proposed Ludovico, eldest son of Charles III, Duke of Savoy, but he died in 1536.\n\nAround 1531, a plan emerged to wed Isabella to John Zápolya, Voivode of Transylvania and King of Hungary. When Louis II of Hungary was killed in the Battle of Mohács in 1526, Hungary was divided between pro-Habsburg Royal Hungary and pro-Zápolya Eastern Hungarian Kingdom. The parties were engaged in the Little War in Hungary. Zápolya had sustained his claim only by gaining support from and becoming vassal of the Ottoman Empire. Bona Sforza, ardent opponent of the Habsburgs, supported Zápolya and tried to convince her husband Sigismund to provide military support and Isabella's hand. Sigismund, whose first wife was Zápolya's sister Barbara, refused, not wanting to upset the Habsburgs and doubting Zápolya's ability to hold onto his throne. Eventually, Sigismund relented on a condition that a peace treaty was concluded between Zápolya and the Habsburgs. The Treaty of Nagyvárad was signed in February 1538 in part due to Sigismund's requirement. Archduke Ferdinand of Austria and Zápolya agreed to divide Hungary between themselves and that Ferdinand was to inherit Zápolya's territory since at that time he was childless.\n\nIn April 1538, just two months after the Treaty of Nagyvárad, Bishop Stjepan Brodarić arrived to Kraków to negotiate timing and conditions for the wedding of Isabella and John Zápolya. Polish nobles considered the wedding to be ill-conceived and not beneficial, but it proceeded. On 15 January 1539, five hundred Hungarian knights arrived to Kraków. The betrothal took place on 26 January. The \"per procura\" wedding date is not known exactly, but it was probably between 28 January and 2 February. After the ceremony, Isabella departed towards Hungary. Her dowry was 32,000 ducats in cash plus property worth another 6,000 ducats. Through Buda she reached Székesfehérvár where she met John Zápolya for the first time on 22 February. He granted her the towns of Iňačovce, Lipova, Deva, Číčov, Tokaj, parts of Debrecen and Regéc castles. The next day the wedding ceremony took place and Isabella was crowned as Queen of Hungary. The wedding feast continued for a week in Buda.\n\nThe married life was short and not happy. 20-year-old Isabella had to deal with 52-year-old husband who complained of gout and overall ill health. In spring 1540, Zápolya traveled to quell a revolt in Transylvania by . Isabella stayed in Buda as she was pregnant. Their son John Sigismund Zápolya was born on 7 July 1540. Zápolya succeeded in subduing the rebels, but he died on 22 July from cerebral hemorrhage.\n\nAccording to the Treaty of Nagyvárad, John Zápolya was to be succeeded by Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, but Hungarian nobles, particularly Bishop George Martinuzzi, refused to abide by it and in September 1540 elected the infant John Sigismund as King of Hungary and Isabella as his regent. Ferdinand invaded Hungary and besieged Buda where Isabella and her son sought shelter. The city withstood the first siege in November 1540 and the second siege in May 1541 was lifted by Suleiman the Magnificent, Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. She did not receive help from her father Sigismund I the Old. Suleiman preferred a fragmented Hungary but understood that only he could protect it from the Habsburgs. Therefore, he converted most of Hungary to pashaliks (province governed by a pasha) and only Transylvania and lands east of the Tisza River (known as Temesköz) were given to John Sigismund and Isabella as his guardian. These appointments were accepted by the Transylvanian Diet acknowledging its status as a vassal of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn September 1541, Isabella departed Buda and took up residence in Lipova, then in Gyál and Alba Iulia. She complained about ruinous state of her new domains and financial troubles. Isabella was young, noted for her beauty, and scolded for her expensive tastes. Three surviving pieces of jewelry are attributed to her: a diamond ring, a large pendant with 16 opals, and a gold necklace. She began reconstruction of the former bishop's palace in Alba Iulia in the Renaissance style according to the examples of Wawel Castle in her native Kraków and Royal Palace in Buda. She faced multiple political challenges: keeping peace with the Ottomans, containing Martinuzzi's ambitions, and blocking Ferdinand's attempts at taking over Transylvania. In December 1541, perhaps exhausted by her circumstances, Isabella signed an agreement with Archduke Ferdinand: she would abandon Transylvania and take up residence in the Szepes County. However, when Ottomans attacked again, Ferdinand did not have enough military power to defend his territories (see Siege of Esztergom (1543)) and the agreement remained forgotten. Poland proposed to solve the issue with another marriage – Isabella would marry widowed Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, Archduke Ferdinand, or his eldest son Maximilian. But Ferdinand hoped that he could acquire Transylvania by other means.\n\nIn 1548, when the Ottomans gathered all their forces for an assault against Persia in the ongoing Ottoman–Safavid War (1532–55), Ferdinand and Martinuzzi began negotiations to unite Hungary and defend it against the Ottomans. The agreement was reached on 1 August 1549 in Nyírbátor. Isabella would give up Transylvania in exchange for Opole and Racibórz in Silesia. Ferdinand was also to provide for John Sigismund, who would later marry one of his daughters. Martinuzzi was to be made Archbishop of Gran, and to receive the cardinal's hat. Isabella defended her rights and took up arms. She did not receive help from her brother Sigismund II Augustus as he concluded an alliance with Ferdinand so that he could quell opposition of Polish nobility to his marriage to Barbara Radziwiłł.\n\nIn fall 1550, Isabella's troops defended Alba Iulia, but had to agree to a truce. She gained support from nobility in the diet of Aiud, but her forces were defeated near Cenad and she was besieged in Buda. In July 1551, facing superior forces, Isabella surrendered and signed the Treaty of Weissenburg. She agreed to give up Transylvania in exchange for Opole, Racibórz, and other territories so that her annual income would be 25,000 florins. For her domains in Hungary, which were valued at 140,000 florins, Isabella was to receive Ziębice, Ząbkowice Śląskie, and 100,000 florins in cash. John Sigismund was to marry one of Ferdinand's daughters. In August, Isabella gave up the Holy Crown of Hungary. According to Marcin Bielski, the cross atop of the crown was broken off and kept by John Sigismund who hoped one day to reunite the pieces. At the same time, John Sigismund was betrothed to 4-year-old Joanna of Austria.\n\nIn September 1551, Isabella departed from Transylvania. According to a legend, when Isabella stopped to have a rest at the gates of Meszes, a border town, she cut the abbreviation of her motto into the bark of an old oak tree: SFV – \"Sic fata volunt\" (\"It is the will of fate\"). The same motto can be found on her jewelry and her coins. She reached Opole in March 1551 to find it devastated. The buildings where she was to live were unsuitable for habitation, the income was only half of what the treaty provided, and Ferdinand did not hurry to pay the agreed cash sums. Only a month later she departed Opole towards Poland where she lived with her family for the next five years. To provide her with income, her brother granted her Krzepice and Sanok, while her mother gave her Wieluń.\n\nThe situation in Hungary was not stable. George Martinuzzi was assassinated in December 1551, while the Ottomans captured Cenad and unsuccessfully besieged Eger. Isabella received invitations both from Sultan Suleiman, who sent an envoy to Poland, and local nobles to return to Hungary, but she delayed. Her brother King Sigismund II Augustus, afraid of a Habsburg–Russian alliance in the series of the Muscovite–Lithuanian Wars, married Catherine of Austria, daughter of Ferdinand. Isabella and her mother Bona Sforza demanded that Ferdinand fulfilled his obligations according to the Treaty of Weissenburg, but he did not have financial resources to comply and asked for concessions. Isabella decided that since he did not hold up his end of the bargain, she was not bound by the treaty and resolved to return to Hungary.\n\nIn February 1556, Isabella and her mother Bona, who was returning to her native Italy, departed Warsaw towards Silesia. She spent the summer in Lviv waiting for an opportune moment to return. Accompanied by Ottoman troops, she entered Cluj in October. On 25 November 1556, the Transylvanian Diet entrusted her with a five-year regency period on behalf of her 16-year-old son. Isabella set up her Transylvanian chancellery with the help of Mihály Csáky. She minted her own gold ducats that depicted Madonna and Child on one side and composite coat of arms on the other. The coat of arms included: wolf and unicorn of the Zápolya family, Patriarchal cross and four horizontal stripes of Hungary, eagle of Poland, snake of the Sforza/Visconti families, and three panther heads of Dalmatia. In 1558, her supporter foiled a coup by the Kendi family against her. In addition to political strife, there were religious differences as well since Protestantism spread into Hungary. In 1557, Isabella signed an edict granting freedom of religion to four denominations – Catholics, Lutherans, Calvinists, and Unitarians. It was a pioneering move towards religious tolerance and an important step towards the Edict of Torda of 1568. Isabella is noted as the first European ruler to issue laws on religious tolerance.\n\nIsabella died of a long illness in September 1559, just three years after her return to Transylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816907", "title": "The Crusade (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Crusade (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Crusade is the half-missing sixth serial of the second season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 27 March to 17 April 1965. The story is set near Jerusalem, in Palestine, during the Third Crusade. Only two of the four episodes are held in the BBC archives; two remain missing. It is the only serial in the second season to contain missing episodes.\n\nThe TARDIS materialises in 12th century Palestine, during the time of the Third Crusade. When the First Doctor, Ian, Barbara and Vicki emerge, they find themselves in the middle of a Saracen ambush. In the confusion, Barbara is seized by a Saracen from behind, while the rest of the TARDIS crew stop the attackers from killing William de Tornebu, an associate of King Richard. \n\nBarbara and des Preaux are presented to Saladin's brother Saphadin by El Akir, who mistakenly believes them to be King Richard and his sister Lady Joanna. When des Preaux reveals their true identity, El Akir is furious but, before he can act, Saladin emerges and is intrigued by Barbara, enough to invite her to entertain him with her stories at supper.\n\nIan, anxious to rescue Barbara, asks for the King's help in rescuing her, but the irritated monarch tells Ian that Barbara can remain with Saladin until her death. De Tornebu and the Doctor are able to convince the King to change his mind. Ian is knighted \"Sir Ian of Jaffa\" so that he may serve as an emissary, and is sent to Saladin's court to both request the release of des Preaux and Barbara, and to offer the hand of the real Lady Joanna in marriage to Saphadin in order to create peace. This makes Joanna indignant and she refuses her consent.\n\nIan delivers his message to Saladin, after which Saladin grants Ian leave to search for Barbara. During his search Ian is attacked by bandits and knocked out. One of the bandits, Ibrahim, ties him down with stakes in the hot sun and daubs him with honey, aiming to kill him via scaphism. Barbara twice escapes from El Akir's capture, hiding out in the Emir's harem on the second occasion. El Akir tries to find Barbara, but she is hidden by a sympathetic harem girl, named Maimuna.\n\nIan eventually tricks Ibrahim into untying his feet and overpowers him. Ian convinces the bandit to accompany him to Lydda and aid him in his quest for Barbara. Meanwhile, El Akir bursts in and is about to attack Barbara when Haroun - a man who had aided Barbara with shelter - arrives and fatally stabs El Akir. Fatima screams, and two guards burst in. Ian arrives, and he and Haroun subdue the guards. Haroun and his long lost daughter Maimuna are reunited, and Barbara and Ian head for the TARDIS.\n\nThe Doctor, who has been trying not to get caught up in court politics, attempts to make a break for the TARDIS. He is caught by the Earl of Leicester, who thinks the Doctor is a spy for Saladin. He sentences the Doctor to death. Ian arrives and, presenting himself as \"Sir Ian of Jaffa,\" tells Leicester that the Doctor is a spy and that he is here to carry out the execution. The Doctor plays along and asks for one last chance to see Jaffa before he dies. Leicester agrees, and the Doctor is able to sneak away to the TARDIS with the rest of the crew and leave.\n\nCopies of the four episodes were believed lost in the mass deletion of episode recordings in the 1970s, with BBC Enterprises deleting their copies. The BBC Film Library retained a copy of \"The Wheel of Fortune\" that it had accidentally acquired, but a copy of \"The Lion\" had been junked from the library by 1972. In 1999, a film copy of \"The Lion\" was discovered by Neil Lambess and Paul Scoones in the collection of Bruce Grenville, a film collector in New Zealand; the New Zealand Broadcasting Corporation had acquired the story in 1960s, but did not transmit it. The story had been thought to be one of the very few for which no off-air soundtrack was known to exist, until copies were located in 1995.\n\nThe first episode of the subsequent story, \"The Space Museum\", begins with a brief clip of the finale of Episode 4, \"The Warlords\", where the time-travellers stand in period costume round the TARDIS console, literally frozen in time (it is confirmed as a clip rather than a restaged scene by an off-camera cough on the soundtracks to both \"The Warlords\" and \"The Space Museum\"). This is the only known surviving footage from the final episode.\n\nIn episode 3, William Russell appears only in a pre-filmed insert as he was on holiday. Julian Glover was cast by Douglas Camfield to play King Richard I. Glover would return to \"Doctor Who\" to play Scaroth in \"City of Death\" (1979). Jean Marsh, who played Princess Joanna, would play Sara Kingdom in \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" (1965–66) and Morgaine in \"Battlefield\" (1989). Marsh was married to Third Doctor actor Jon Pertwee from 1955 to 1960.\n\nBernard Kay had appeared in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964). He would later appear in two more serials, \"The Faceless Ones\" (1967) and \"Colony in Space\" (1971). Roger Avon later played Daxtar in \"The Daleks' Master Plan\". Tony Caunter later played Morgan in \"Colony in Space\" and Jackson in \"Enlightenment\" (1983). Tutte Lemkow previously played Kuiju in \"Marco Polo\" (1964) and would appear again as Cyclops in \"The Myth Makers\" (1965). Gábor Baraker had also appeared in \"Marco Polo\" (as Wang-Lo).\n\n Episode is missing\n\nA different version of the final episode of the previous story \"The Web Planet\" featured a caption with \"Next Week: The Space Museum\" instead of \"Next Week: The Lion.\" This alternative end tag was on the version of \"The Web Planet\" recovered from Nigeria.\n\nIn 2008, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" wrote that \"The Crusade\" was \"arguably the first story where every aspect of the production works to perfection\". He praised the way the TARDIS crew was broken up - allowing them to see both sides of the Crusades – and the \"classy guest cast\", where \"Walter Randall's El Akir is the most sinister character in the series to date\".\n\nThis serial was the third and final story to be novelised by Frederick Muller publishers. Written by David Whitaker as \"Doctor Who and the Crusaders\", it was first published 17 February 1966 and was the last novelisation published until 1973 when Target Books launched its long-running line of episode adaptations, beginning with reprints of this and the preceding two novels. There have been French, Dutch and Portuguese editions.\n\nAs with Whitaker's first novelisation, the story is converted into a stand-alone novel with a lengthy prologue in the TARDIS where the travellers discuss the paradoxes of their journeys and time travel. The pointlessness of a religious war is also emphasised more.\n\nOnce again, Whitaker plays up the romantic potential of Ian and Barbara and includes a graphic passage of Barbara being scourged. For some reason the name of Susan's husband has changed from David Campbell to David Cameron.\n\nIn 2005 the novel was also issued by BBC Audio as part of the \"Doctor Who: Travels in Time and Space\" audio book collectors' tin, read by William Russell.\n\nThe script of this serial, edited by John McElroy and titled \"The Crusade\", was published by Titan Books in November 1994. It was the tenth in that publisher's series of \"Doctor Who\" script books, following \"Galaxy 4\". At the time that the book was prepared, the BBC archives held only one episode of \"The Crusade\" on video (\"The Wheel of Fortune\") and no audio recordings.\n\nIn 1991, \"The Wheel of Fortune\", then the only episode known extant, was released on VHS as part of \"The Hartnell Years\" (BBCV 4608), presented by Sylvester McCoy, with McCoy giving a brief re-cap of events before and after the segment, with additional information concerning its 'lost' companions.\n\nAs part of \"The Crusade and The Space Museum\" VHS box set (BBCV 6805/6888) in 1999 a version of episodes 1 and 3, with the events of Episodes 2 and 4 narrated by William Russell in character as an aged Ian Chesterton, was released in a special presentation package. A compact disc of the other two episodes' soundtracks was also included. The 'scripted' passages, to fill the gaps between the missing episodes and the following storyline were written by Stephen Cole, with additional continuity snippets by Ian Levine. An audio-only version of this story, with narration again by Russell, was released as a two-CD set in 2005 in \"The Lost TV Episodes Collection One 1964/1965\".\nThe two extant episodes and the two soundtracks for \"The Crusade\" were again released as part of the \"Lost in Time\" DVD (BBCDVD 1353) collection of restored episodes and clips in 2004, with Russell's sections as an extra when \"Play All\" is selected on disc one. Notably, while most of the episodes in the set were given a new transfer directly from their film prints for restoration, \"The Lion\" was not as the existing print was very heavily damaged and putting the print through the telecine process was seen as an undesirable risk. Therefore, the 1999 transfer was used as the basis of restoration work. \"The Lion\" did not undergo the VidFIRE process, while \"The Wheel of Fortune\" and all other episodes in the set did.\n"}
{"id": "1816913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816913", "title": "Germanic a-mutation", "text": "Germanic a-mutation\n\n\"A\"-mutation is a metaphonic process supposed to have taken place in late Proto-Germanic (c. 200).\n\nIn \"a\"-mutation, a short high vowel ( or ) was lowered when the following syllable contained a non-high vowel (, or ). Thus, since the change was produced by other vowels besides */a/, the term \"a\"-mutation is something of a misnomer. It has also been called \"\"a\"-umlaut\", \"\"a\"/\"o\"-umlaut\", \"velar umlaut\" and, formerly, \"Brechung\". (This last was Grimm's term, but nowadays German \"Brechung\", and its English equivalents \"breaking\" and \"fracture\", are generally restricted in use to other unrelated sound-changes which later affected individual Germanic languages.)\n\nThe high vowel was not lowered, however, if intervened between it and the following non-high vowel. An intervening nasal consonant followed by a consonant of any kind also blocked the process (and raised original to ).\n\n\"a\"-mutation seems to have preceded the raising of unstressed final to in the dialects ancestral to Old English and Old Norse, hence in Old English the phenomenon is subject to many exceptions and apparent inconsistencies which are usually attributed to a mixture of paradigmatic levelling and phonetic context.\n\n\"a\"-mutation is more evident in some Germanic languages than others. It is widely found in Old High German, less so in other West Germanic languages and Old Norse. \"a\"-mutation is less extensive in Old East Norse (the precursor of Danish and Swedish) than Old West Norse (spoken in Norway and its colonies). There is no trace of it at all in Gothic, where the distinction between the short high and mid vowels had become allophonic (Proto-Germanic and merged). Old Gutnish, at the eastern end of the territory where Old Norse evolved, resembles Gothic in this respect. But there is some suggestion that \"a\"-mutation may have been preserved in Crimean Gothic.\n\nVariation is found within dialects too with doublets such as Old English \"spora\" : \"spura\" \"spur\", \"spornan\" : \"spurnan\" \"to spurn\", \"cnocian\" : \"cnucian\" \"to knock\"; Old Icelandic \"fogl\" : \"fugl\" \"bird\", \"goð\" : \"guð\" \"god\", \"goll\" : \"gull\" \"gold\".\n\nAccording to Campbell, \"a\"-mutation of \"i\" is limited in Old English to just three words: \"nest\" \"nest\", \"spec\" \"bacon\", and \"wer\" \"man\". More plentiful instances of > have been cited in other West Germanic languages, with Old High German showing the greatest number of examples, including doublets such as \"skif\" : \"skef\" \"ship\".\n\nThe mutation is rare in Old Norse, e.g. \"verr\" \"man\", \"heðan\" \"hence\", \"neðan\" \"from below\" in contrast to \"niðr\" \"down(wards)\" and perhaps \"jafn\" \"even\". Instances where \"a\"-mutation has failed to occur in Old Norse can mostly be explained as analogical forms, although a palatal stop or immediately preceding the in a short root syllable has a tendency to block or reverse the process.\n\nWhile Proto-Germanic inherited both of the phonemes and from Proto-Indo-European, all instances of in the later languages arose from \"a\"-mutation of , since Proto-Indo-European had already become Proto-Germanic . \"a\"-mutation of is much more common than that of but also subject to many exceptions. In some dialects, the change may be blocked in labial contexts. Specifically, a tendency has been observed for the mutation not to occur next to initial or medial or in association with . Other exceptions, in particular where there is disagreement between dialects, may be due to the word having once been a \"u\"-stem. Most dialects of late Old Dutch underwent a merger of and , so that in Middle and Modern Dutch only appears, eliminating all traces of a-mutation of .\n\nThe effects of \"a\"-mutation are perhaps most noticeable in certain verb types, e.g. strong verbs of classes 2, 3 and 4) where \"o\" in the past participle alternates with \"u\" in the preterite plural. For example, Old English \"flogen\" \"flown\" < *\"fluganaz\" alternated with \"flugon\" \"they flew\" < *\"flugun\". Otherwise, where and would originally have alternated morphologically, the old Germanic languages had almost always generalised one vowel or the other throughout the paradigm, although there does occur in Old Swedish (especially in the laws of Östergötland) traces of regular alternation between and in line with \"a\"-mutation, e.g. \"kona\" (subj.) : \"kunu\" (obj.) \"woman\". As can be seen from the examples above, \"a\"-mutation is also found in lexical alternations.\n\nIn the West Germanic variety that gave rise to Old English, \"a\"-mutation did not affect the second element of the diphthong (for which the earliest Old English texts have \"eu\"): \"treulesnis\" \"faithlessness\", \"steup-\" \"step-\" (Epinal Glossary 726, 1070); but in other branches of West Germanic eventually became unless followed by , e.g. Old Saxon \"breost\" \"breast\" vs. \"treuwa\" \"fidelity\". In most variants of Old Norse, > > or , without regard to \"a\"-mutation, e.g. Old Icelandic \"djúpr\".\n\nOld English derives from a type of Germanic in which single had the same effect on preceding and as a nasal stop followed by another consonant. The effect occurs in other West Germanic languages, though more erratically, and sometimes in Old Norse.\n\n\"a\"-mutation was also sometimes blocked before single , again with much variation among languages.\n\nA number of scholars have questioned the traditional model of Proto-Germanic \"a\"-mutation in whole or in part. In particular, the rare \"a\"-mutation of to \"as a P[roto]-G[ermanic] phenomenon has always been contested.\" Lloyd, for example, proposed an alternative explanation for all apparent instances of \"a\"-mutation of ; he suggested that \"the partial overlapping in Germanic of the two phonemes (represented in all environments by ) and (with the allophones and ) led to the occasional development of an \"e\"-allophone of \"i\" by systemic analogy\". Cercignani, on the other hand, argued that \"no 'umlaut' phenomena can be assumed for Proto-Germanic\", preferring to ascribe these changes to \"the prehistory of the individual languages.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816924", "title": "Ecstasy of Saint Teresa", "text": "Ecstasy of Saint Teresa\n\nThe Ecstasy of Saint Teresa (alternatively \"Saint Teresa in Ecstasy\" or \"Transverberation of Saint Teresa\"; in or ) is the central sculptural group in white marble set in an elevated aedicule in the Cornaro Chapel, Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome. It was designed and completed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, the leading sculptor of his day, who also designed the setting of the Chapel in marble, stucco and paint. It is generally considered to be one of the sculptural masterpieces of the High Roman Baroque. It depicts Teresa of Ávila.\n\nThe entire ensemble was overseen and completed by a mature Bernini during the Pamphili papacy of Innocent X. When Innocent acceded to the papal throne, he shunned Bernini's artistic services; the sculptor had been the favourite artist of the previous and profligate Barberini pope. Without papal patronage, the services of Bernini's studio were therefore available to a patron such as the Venetian Cardinal Federico Cornaro (1579–1653).\n\nCornaro had chosen the hitherto unremarkable church of the Discalced Carmelites for his burial chapel. The selected site for the chapel was the left transept that had previously held an image of 'St. Paul in Ecstasy', which was replaced by Bernini's dramatization of a religious experience undergone and related by the first Discalced Carmelite saint, who had been canonised not long before, in 1622. It was completed in 1652 for the then princely sum of 12,000 scudi.\n\n The two central sculptural figures of the swooning nun and the angel with the spear derive from an episode described by Teresa of Avila, a mystical cloistered Discalced Carmelite reformer and nun, in her autobiography, \"The Life of Teresa of Jesus\" (1515–1582). Her experience of religious ecstasy in her encounter with the angel is described as follows:\nThe group is illuminated by natural light which filters through a hidden window in the dome of the surrounding aedicule, and underscored by gilded stucco rays. Teresa is shown lying on a cloud indicating that this is intended to be a divine apparition we are witnessing. Other witnesses appear on the side walls; life-size high-relief donor portraits of male members of the Cornaro family, e.g. Cardinal Federico Cornaro and Doge Giovanni I Cornaro, are present and shown discussing the event in boxes as if at the theatre. Although the figures are executed in white marble, the aedicule, wall panels and theatre boxes are made from coloured marbles. Above, the vault of the Chapel is frescoed with an illusionistic cherub-filled sky with the descending light of the Holy Ghost allegorized as a dove.\n\nThe art historian Rudolf Wittkower wrote:\n\nThe effects are theatrical, the Cornaro family seeming to observe the scene from their boxes, and the chapel illustrates a moment where divinity intrudes on an earthly body. Caroline Babcock speaks of Bernini's melding of sensual and spiritual pleasure in the \"orgiastic\" grouping as both intentional and influential on artists and writers of the day. Irving Lavin said \"the transverberation becomes a point of contact between earth and heaven, between matter and spirit\". As Bernini biographer Franco Mormando points out, although Bernini's point of departure for his depiction of Teresa's mystical experience was her own description, there were many details about the experience that she never specifies (\"e.g.\", the position of her body) and that Bernini simply supplied from his own artistic imagination, all with an aim of increasing the nearly transgressively sensual charge of the episode: \"Certainly no other artist, in rendering the scene, before or after Bernini, dared as much in transforming the saint's appearance.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816927", "title": "List of railroad lines in Rhode Island", "text": "List of railroad lines in Rhode Island\n\nThis is a list of all freight railroad (not streetcar or rapid transit) lines that have been built in Rhode Island, and does not deal with ownership changes from one company to another. The lines are named by the first company to build or consolidate them. Unless noted, every railroad eventually became part of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad system.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816937", "title": "Can You Feel It (The Jacksons song)", "text": "Can You Feel It (The Jacksons song)\n\n\"Can You Feel It\" is a recording by American group the Jacksons, recorded in March 1980 and released as the third single from their album \"Triumph\". \n\nWritten by brothers Michael and Jackie, the song featured solo leads by Randy and Michael. Released as a single in 1981, the song reached No. 77 on the pop charts and No. 30 on the R&B charts in United States, but reached No. 6 in the UK and No. 2 in the Netherlands in 1981.\n\n\nThe accompanying video, entitled \"The Triumph,\" was noted for its special effects created by Robert Abel and Associates. Michael created the video's concept and Tito's sons Taj and Taryll appeared as extras. In 2001, it was voted one of the 100 best videos of all time, in a poll to mark the 20th anniversary of MTV. The title was also used for a 2009 greatest hits compilation. The video was featured on the bonus disc of the box set, \"Michael Jackson's Vision\". The prelude narration is spoken by voice-over artist Ken Nordine.\n\nThe track was sampled by The Tamperer featuring Maya for their 1998 hit single \"Feel It\".\n\nA cover version of the song appeared in a 2018 holiday advertising campaign for Amazon.com.\nThe song was played at Nebraska Cornhuskers football games from 2006 to 2017 before the opening kickoff.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816942", "title": "Breakdown (Mariah Carey song)", "text": "Breakdown (Mariah Carey song)\n\n\"Breakdown\" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey from her sixth studio album \"Butterfly\" (1997). The song features rap verses by two of the five members of Bone Thugs-n-Harmony. The song was released on March 22, 1998, by Columbia Records as the fourth single from \"Butterfly\". Similar to the treatments of the \"Butterfly\" and The Roof\", \"Breakdown\" received a limited worldwide release due to Carey's conflict at the time with Sony. The song's lyrics describe the emotions someone feels when their lover suddenly stops loving and leaves them, and the pain, or breakdown, it causes the person. The song was well received by contemporary music critics.\n\nDue to the song's limited release, \"Breakdown\" did not chart in most major music markets, with the exception of Australia and New Zealand, where it peaked at numbers 38 and four, respectively. In the United States, due to \"Billboard\" rules at the time, the song was unable to chart on the Hot 100, but charted at number 53 on the Hot 100 Airplay. In the accompanying music video, Carey goes through a variety of different colorful outfits, with matching make-up. Of the many changes, two scenes predominantly occupy the video. The first in Carey dressed in flamenco-style clothing, while dancing on a chair with two other female dancers. The other features Carey and Bone Thugs-n-Harmony gambling in a casino.\n\nCarey recorded the song at The Hit Factory in New York City throughout 1997. \"Breakdown\" was one of the first of Carey's album tracks to veer in a hip hop direction, and many were surprised when she contacted Bone Thugs-n-Harmony to record the song because she was considered more of a R&B/adult contemporary artist.\nAccording to author Chris Nickson, \"Breakdown\" was an important component of \"Butterfly\": \"'Breakdown' showed Mariah treading forcefully into territory that was new for her and making it her own; it had a melody that simmered under her vocal and a groove that was irresistible.\" When Carey began recording the album, she had slow and sultry ballads such as \"Whenever You Call\" and \"Butterfly,\" but also had big R&B and hip hop uptempo numbers like \"Honey\". For this reason, Carey recorded \"Breakdown\" in order to fill in the midsection of the album and serve as the album's \"backbone.\"\n\n\"Breakdown\" is a slow and sultry song which blends R&B and hip hop genres. It incorporates drum notes, including heavy beats and grooves. The song features rap verses by Krayzie and Wish Bone. As part of \"layering the song,\" background vocals are featured throughout the chorus and sections of the bridge. It is set in the signature common time and is written in the key of E major. It features a basic chord progression of A-F-. Carey's vocal range in the song spans from the note of B to the high note of F; the piano and guitar pieces range from F to G as well. The song contains choral lyrics written by Carey, who produced the song's melody and chorus as well. Aside from assisting with its writing and chord progression, Stevie J and Puff Daddy co-produced the song as well.\n\nA different edit of the song, \"The Mo' Thugs Remix\", features longer raps from Krayzie and Wish Bone and an intro and verse from Layzie Bone, who was absent from the original version. This version can be found on Bone Thugs-n-Harmony's compilation \"The Collection Volume One\" (1998).\n\n\"Breakdown\" was the source of controversy when it came to its release. Carey was having a conflict with Columbia Records over the singles choices, as they were already not happy with the album's hip hop transition. Later, in 1998 when Carey was composing the songs for her first compilation album, \"#1's\", the song was again one of the reasons for continued conflict within the label. They disagreed on what content should compose the album. Sony wanted to release an album that featured her US number-one singles, void of any new material. Carey on the other hand, felt that a compilation album should reflect on her most personal and favorite songs, not her most commercial. To accompany her thirteen number-ones, Carey recorded four new songs. She felt that not including any new material would result in cheating her fans, therefore including some new material as well. While compromised, Carey often expressed distaste towards the album's song selection, expressing her disappointment in the omission of her \"favorite songs.\"\n\nFor this reason, Sony titled the album \"#1's\", as Carey felt the need to express the album's true content, a collection of her number-one hits. Carey has frequently cited \"Underneath the Stars\" (1996) and \"Breakdown\" as examples of songs she was unsuccessful in releasing.\n\n\"Breakdown\" garnered generally positive reviews from music critics. David Browne from \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the song, writing \"for most of the album she keeps her notorious octave-climbing chops at bay. Showing some admirable restraint, she nestles herself into downy-soft beats. In 'Breakdown', she demonstrates she can match the staccato, lite-reggae phrasing of her guests, two members of Bone Thugs-n-Harmony.\" Rich Juzwiak from \"Slant\" called \"Breakdown\" \"the song of Carey's career,\" noting its \"lyrical strokes as broad and obvious as they are naked. Mariah the chanter flawlessly adapts to their singsong style, largely boxing her multi-octave range into a sly, hypnotic melody so that when she really wails at the end, you really feel it. As with 'The Roof', Carey lunges toward musical maturity by embracing, not shunning hip-hop. This is the height of her elegance and maybe hip-hop-soul's, too.\"\n\nReleased as the third single from \"Butterfly\" in 1998 in the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia only (in Europe \"The Roof\" was chosen as the third single instead). Because of conflict between Carey and her record label at the time, it was only given a commercial release in Australia, where it performed modestly and remained in the top 40 for three weeks. A remix of the song was promoted to US radio stations and debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay chart in September–October 1997. However, it wasn't released commercially in the US until April 1998, as a double A-side with \"My All.\" It reached the top-five on the \"Billboard\"'s Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart as \"My All/Breakdown.\" However, the song itself independently appeared on the Hot 100 Airplay chart and reached the top 20 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay and Rhythmic Airplay charts. In New Zealand, the single performed well, peaking at number four and being certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ), denoting shipments of over 7,500 units.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Breakdown\" (released in March 1998) was directed by Carey with the assistance of Diane Martel. It sees her take on the role of various \"casino girl\" roles, including a cabaret girl, showgirl, cowgirl and lucky charm. The members of Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, except for Bizzy Bone, make appearances as well. In the music video, Carey plays her part aq cabaret girl, by dancing on a chair, accompanied by two other females. other scenes include Carey in a main casino hall, where Wish and Krayzie Bone make appearances. While they gamble with a large crowd surrounding them, Carey lounges on the table and cheers for them.\n\nCarey performed the song live during her 1998 Butterfly World Tour. Throughout the performances, Carey wore a short beige outfit and long semi-teased up hair, accompanied by male and female dancers. During the song's act, Carey would slowly sway hand-in-hand with other male dancers, giving the illusion of sultry compassion. Carey performed the song acapella in Chicago during her 2000 Rainbow World Tour. During her Adventures of Mimi Tour in 2006, Carey performed the song during select dates on the tour. The performance included many exotic female dancers, performing seductive pole dances and other similar routines. Carey, while singing, danced light routines on a chair, while wearing a red one piece suit. The song was also performed on select dates of Carey's 2014 The Elusive Chanteuse Show tour. It was also performed as part of the \"Car Ride Medley\" during The Sweet Sweet Fantasy Tour in Mexico and Hawaii and The Butterfly Returns in 2020.\n\n\nCredits adapted from the \"Butterfly\" liner notes.\n"}
{"id": "1816946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816946", "title": "GIF Sundsvall", "text": "GIF Sundsvall\n\nGymnastik- och Idrottsföreningen Sundsvall, more commonly known as GIF Sundsvall () or simply Sundsvall, is a Swedish professional football club based in Sundsvall. The club is affiliated with Medelpads Fotbollförbund and plays its home games at Idrottsparken. Formed on 25 August 1903, the club has played 17 seasons in Sweden's highest football league Allsvenskan, the club's first season in the league was in 1965.\n\nThe club was formed on August 25, 1903 at Matilda Anderssons Café. At that time, GIF Sundsvall stood for \"\"Godtemplarnas Idrotts Förening Sundsvall\"\" which mainly was for Teetotallers up until the alcohol demands was lightened in 1920. The initials then came to stand for, to this day still, \"\"Gymnastik och Idrottsföreningen Sundsvall\"\" (Gymnastics and sports club Sundsvall).\n\nThe club reached the first tier of the domestic football in 1965. The club has since been a \"yo-yo team\" mainly playing in the second division but with Allsvenskan stints in 1975, 1987–89, 1991, 2000–06, 2008, 2012 and 2015–19.\n\nGIF Sundsvall earlier had women's football, bandy and ice hockey on the program. The bandy team became district champions for Västernorrland in 1921. The hockey team folded in the late 1960s. In 1985 the women's team was transferred to Sundsvalls DFF. This mainly because the women's team was disappointed with the lack of support from the men's team.\n\nGIF Sundsvall's home stadium is \"Idrottsparken\", formerly known as \"Norrporten Arena.\" It is located in the heart of Sundsvall and was inaugurated on August 6, 1903.\n\nIt was renovated in 2001–2002 and it can now hold a capacity of 7,700, with 5,000 under roof.\n\nBetween 2006–2016 the name was changed to Norrporten Arena and during 2017 the club expect to present a new sponsor and name of the stadium.\n\nThe stadium's grass is artificial turf since 2004.\n\nTop attendance: 16,507 vs Högadal on October 15, 1961.\n\nThe official supporter's club of GIF Sundsvall is called Patronerna. Formed in 1999, mostly as a joke by some friends supporting their friend, the club has in a short period of time amassed a strong reputation. The name is mainly a historical reference to the sawmill owners who were very powerful in Sundsvall during the post-industrial-revolution era. In 2005, FP-tifo, the group who designs the club's terrace choreography, won the Swedish tifo awards arranged by Canal+.\n\n\n \n\n10 – Leif Forsberg, forward (1980–1988, 1990–2001)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816947", "title": "Landskrona BoIS", "text": "Landskrona BoIS\n\nLandskrona BoIS (short for Landskrona Boll och Idrottsällskap, English: \"Landskrona Ball and Sports Society\", locally referred to as BoIS) is a Swedish professional football club located in Landskrona, Scania, which currently plays in Division 1 Södra, the third tier of football in Sweden. The club was formed on 7 February 1915 through the merger of two older Landskrona clubs, \"IFK Landskrona\" and \"Diana\".\n\nLandskrona BoIS was one of the twelve teams in the inaugural Allsvenskan season in 1924–25. Since then, they have played 34 seasons in Allsvenskan and 53 seasons in the second highest division. Landskrona BoIS has won four medals in Allsvenskan, little silver in 1937–38 and bronze in 1938–39, 1975 and 1976, as well as one national cup title, in 1971–72. The club is affiliated with Skånes Fotbollförbund and plays its matches at Landskrona IP. The club is of open foundational type, not owned by any individuals.\n\nOne of the earliest sports clubs in Landskrona was GF Idrott and the oldest one as of today, which was founded in 1882. Another early sports club was the cycling club Landskrona Velocipedklubb. In 1893 they built a simple kind of cycle track which included a grass field in the middle, which eventually would become the first home ground of Landskrona BoIS. A year later football was introduced to a wider audience in Landskrona, at an event hosted by GF Idrott, at the pitch which the grass at Banan formed. This was an exhibition game between players of the football section of Malmö Velocipedklubb and it was attended by 700 spectators.\n\nAs a ban on totalizators was adopted in 1896, the interest of the cycling sport at tracks decreased and Landskrona Velocipedklubb whose economy already was poor, was a few years later forced to transfer their sports ground to Landskrona Town. GF Idrott formed sections of several sports:\nGymnatics (1882), Athletics (1894), Football (1902), Swimming (1906).\nGF Idrott soon become a leading football club in Scania.\n\nBut GF Idrott would not end up becoming Landskrona's primary football club, however, which can be connected to GF Idrott's focus on other disciplines, as well as their typical middle class appeal in a town whose heavy industry was increasing.\n\nThus, GF Idrott's football section declined during the 1910s. In contrast, Landskrona-based competitor Diana appealed to the community's socialist and sobriety movement subcultures. Diana also had a youth association with strict rules and the club had a formal leadership structure. Not much is known about the other team, \"IFK Landskrona\", which together with Diana would merge into Landskrona BoIS. Their main contribution to the merging seem to have been their players.\n\nThese respective strengths led to a merger between Diana and IFK Landskrona on 7 February 1915, forming a new club, Landskrona BoIS, with IFK Landskrona's strong player roster complementing Diana's structural advantages. The former chairman of Diana, Bror Nilsson, also became the first chairman of Landskrona BoIS, a position that he held until the end of the 1940s. Until the summer of 1924, the club's home pitch was Velocipedbanan, referred to as Banan locally.\n\nIn July 1918, BoIS played their first match abroad, against Copenhagen-based KFUM.\n\nThe best player in Landskrona BoIS during the pre-Allsvenskan era was Albin Dahl, who became the club's first, and only, Olympic competitor, as he represented Sweden at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerpen. Albin played for the club between 1915 and 1921 before joining Helsingborgs IF together with his younger brother Harry Dahl in 1922. The transfer was fractious, as the clubs couldn't agree on the terms. However, unlike Albin, Harry returned to BoIS after only one season. For the following Olympics, 1924 in Paris, both brothers were nominated to play for Sweden, however, Harry's supervisor at Thulinverket refused to let him go.\n\n1924 brought the construction of Landskrona IP, occasionally referred to as \"Karlsunds IP\" in reference to the beech forest located just west of the arena. The new arena enabled Landskrona BoIS to become one of twelve clubs participating in the inaugural season of Allsvenskan. The inaugural Allsvenskan matchday concluded with Landskrona BoIS as the first ever Allsvenskan table leader, following a 1–0 away victory against IFK Norrköping. (Until 1940, goal ratio was tiebreaker when separating teams with the same number of points.) The club's first Allsvenskan home game at Landskrona IP was a 4–0 defeat against IFK Göteborg. Landskrona finished their first season in Allsvenskan in 6th place.\n\nHarry Dahl continued to play for the club until the 1931–32 season. When he left, he had scored an unmatched 334 goals in 410 matches, and he is still the club's best goalscorer of all time.\n\nBoIS was relegated for the first time following the 1932–33 season, the first season following the departure of Dahl, but the club was promoted back Allsvenskan the following season. This time they had their first real manager in Nisse Svensson and he took Landskrona to the top of the league. The club won their first medal in the 1937–38 season, the \"Little Silver Medal\" as it is called in Sweden, awarded to the 3rd placed team in the league. BoIS was only a small difference in goal ratio away from the runners-up Helsingborg IF. The following 1938–39 season ended with Landskrona BoIS winning the bronze medal for their fourth-place finish.\nKnut Hansson (known as \"Buckla\") was a notable player and striker during the late 1930s, who was in the squad that finished third in the 1937-38 Allsvenskan. He later had to leave the club due to not being able to find a job in Landskrona.\n\nDuring 18 seasons, from the inaugural Allsvenskan in 1924–25 until the 1941–42 season, BoIS participated in 17 of those.\n\nThe 1940s were not as positive for the club as the 1930s. The team had no stability and was a yo-yo club for most of the 1940s. An exception to the otherwise mediocre performance came in the 1949 Svenska Cupen, the eighth edition of the tournament, in which Landskrona made their way to the final, defeating Mjölby, Helsingborgs IF, Råå IF and BK Kenty on the way. In the final, played on 24 July, they met AIK in front of 14,718 spectators at Råsunda Stadium in Solna. They lost 1–0, with the sole goal coming on a penalty for a handball.\n\nAfter the 1941/42 relegation, Landskrona BoIS first became a top team in their Division 2 group, and on two occasions they won their group, thereby winning promotion back to Allsvenskan. On both occasions their stays were short, finishing last in both the 1944–45 and 1948–49 Allsvenskan seasons. The situation worsened in the 1951–52 season, with BoIS finishing ninth of ten teams in the second tier, and being relegated to the third tier. With Landskrona's other notable club, BK Landora, also relegated from Division 2, Landskrona now lacked any representation in the two top tiers of Swedish football. That situation would last only one year, however, as BoIS were promoted back to the second tier in 1953.\n\nNotable players from this period include Sigvard Pettersson who scored 297 goals and Knut Hansson who had previously been in the squads that had gained two Allsvenskan medals.\n\nThe club was relegated from Allsvenskan in 1949 and didn't return until the 1971 season, however Landskrona BoIS played qualification games for Allsvenskan in 1958, 1959, 1962 and 1968, all without success. In 1962, the qualification games took place through a four team group, with the clubs meeting each other only once . The third round was played at neutral grounds. When Landskrona BoIS game was finished, appeared to have secured promotion to Allsvenskan, but the other match, which had been delayed a few minutes, ended with a late goal, resulting in Stockholm's AIK securing an Allsvenskan spot instead.\nDuring this period the main star player was Hasse Persson.\nIn the early 1960s, Claes Cronqvist had some success with the club, but moved after the 1965 season to Djurgårdens IF in Stockholm. The 1965 season was also the last one for the club's main star, Hasse Persson.\nThe two following seasons ended without any notable success. But the club had for a while had their eyes on a tall and muscular youth, in the local small club BK Landora, who played their home games at the B-pitch of Landskrona IP. A very talented but heavy centre forward, his name was Sonny Johansson. He, just like Claes Cronqvist in 1966, was of interest for the Stockholm club Djurgårdens IF. Together with his father Oscar, they made the long journey up to the Swedish capital. Everything looked like Sonny should put his signature on the transfer papers, but he didn't, stating that \"dad would be so lonesome without me\". After his return from the capital, Sonny did instead sign for Landskrona BoIS, and he would become true to his new club for his entire career over 17 seasons.\n\nAfter rival club Helsingborg IF was relegated from Allsvenskan in 1968 (for its first time ever), and after having no success in the qualification to Allsvenskan in 1969, the year 1970 became a very important one for Landskrona BoIS. To reach the promotion qualifiers, they had to win at home against Helsingborgs IF, and so they did, with a single goal scored by the Danish player Leif Carlsen in front of more than 15,000 attenders. In the home game of the qualification for Allsvenskan, more than 15,000 attenders came to Landskrona IP again, and BoIS after goals by Tommy Gustafsson and Sonny Johansson, won 2–0 against Sandvikens IF. The away game was played in the northern town Luleå, just as the winter began at the 66th latitude. BoIS managed a goalless draw as result. In the final game, at neutral Nya Ullevi in Gothenburg, BoIS had to play Skövde AIK and at least another draw was required for the promotion. It began bad, as Skövde scored twice, but by goals from Sonny Johansson and Leif Carlsen, Landskrona BoIS finally managed to be promoted back to Allsvenskan, after an absence for 21 seasons. As a result of the success, the Danish player Leif Carlsen was forced to leave BoIS. By 1971, the Swedish Football Association didn't allow foreign players in Allsvenskan. During the 1971 season Landskrona BoIS managed to finish on 6th place, but won only 5 games. Their home average attendance during the season was 8,504 presumably their best ever (by 2014).\n\nBoIS stayed in Allsvenskan for ten seasons, which included two bronze medals 1975 and 1976 and a Swedish Cup victory in 1972. During the 1970s their former rivals from Helsingborg had no luck in their attempts to return to Allsvenskan, and the main rivals instead became Malmö FF. In 1974 BoIS beat Malmö FF, with 2–1, for the first time at Malmö Stadion, in front of 24,746 attenders. Worse was the 1975 home game against Malmö FF, as the guests won 0–5, the attendance in Landskrona that year was though as high as 17,696, the second best attendance at IP.\n\nThe club's ever main star Sonny Johansson contributed to this in a major way. Sonny played for the club from 1968 to 1984 and scored more than 300 goals. He was the highest-scoring player in Allsvenskan during the 1970s. In 1971, Claes Cronqvist returned to the club and remained until the relegation in 1980. Unlike in the 1960s when he was a forward, he mostly played as defender during the 1970s. Cronqvist holds the record for being sent off more than any\nplayer in Allsvenskan, 7 times, including 5 times while representing BoIS (1971–80) and twice during his time with Djurgården.\n\nIn autumn 1978, the club got into problems. The supposed manager for the years to come, Lennart Söderberg, changed his mind in a very late stage, and suddenly the club was without a manager for the next season. After a hasty search, Ulf Schramm became manager. But already in the spring of 1979, the players began to make severe complaints to the chairman and board, suggesting that Schramm was \"incompetent\". This soon led to the dismissal of Schramm. At this time, within Swedish football, a dismissal of a manager in the middle of a season was a rare event. And Ulf Schramm eventually decided to process the club. Landskrona BoIS chairman of the time Claes Munck af Rosenschöld, who also was a solicitor, represented the club successfully during a trial that attracted some national attention. Schramm never appealed the matter.\n\nAfter the 1973 energy crisis, times became hard for the Swedish shipyards. There were six large shipyards along the Swedish western coast. Three of them were located in Gothenburg and in Landskrona was the Öresundsvarvet shipyard, by far the town's largest employer with 3500 employees. By 1978 most shipyards were nationalised and threatened with closure. Then the club and its players decided to do something for Öresundsvarvet. In the Allsvenskan premiere match, Landskrona BoIS faced IFK Göteborg from Gothenburg away. Just before kick-off the BoIS players unfurled a banderole which got the large crowd to applaud the away team in a very rare manner. The banderole simply stated \"Save the shipyards\", which greatly also appealed to the Gothenburg audience.\n\nIn spring 1979 the club suddenly had no goalkeeper, as first goal keeper Ronny Sörensson and second goalkeeper Leif Hult both had suffered injuries. Minor ones, but nevertheless none of them could play the away game against IFK Sundsvall in Sundsvall. In the end, it was decided to put the goalkeeper coach Rolf Nilsson behind the posts. He was then 46 years, 8 months and 13 days old, which was, and still is, the record for the oldest player ever to play in Allsvenskan (as of March 2015). Nilsson conceded two goals, but BoIS won the game with 3–2. Örebro SK has used an even older goal keeper in the zeroes, but only as a substitute goal keeper who never got to play.\n\nThe manager issue during the end of the 1970s and early 1980s led to a relegation from Allsvenskan, and ten consecutive seasons at the Swedish top level came to an end during the autumn of 1980. After having been close to reach qualification for Allsvenskan in 1983, the goal of a return to Allsvenskan ended the following season, as a relegation down to third tier of Swedish football followed 1984. This was the second time in the clubs' history that Landskrona BoIS had to play third tier football. The first time was in 1952/53, and the club had then been promoted back after one season.\n\nThe difference between tier 2 and 3 was huge in 1985. As the second tier comprised two leagues only, North and South, a total of 28 clubs, while third tier was divided into twelve regional leagues, and 144 clubs in all. In order to get promotion, the clubs had both to win its own regional league, followed by a home and away qualification against any of the other third tier league winners. Out of 12 league winners, 6 got promoted. The relegation from the higher league comprised the three last teams in both second tier leagues, North and South.\n\nAn all-time low home attendance was noted on a rainy day in June 1985, as fewer than 400 people watched the club be defeated by Hittarp with a score of 1–2. In the regional league, after around half of the series, BoIS was excluded from the top by other clubs. However, after winning more games in combination with main contenders (Varbergs BoIS and Råå IF) began to lose their games, BoIS managed to win the league with several match days remaining. Now the away-home qualifying games against Linköpings FF would decide which club that would be promoted. Both games ended 1–1 and a penalty shoot-out became the final tie breaker. BoIS forward, the well-bearded Ole Jensen scored the winning penalty for the club in front of a crowd of 6,000, and Landskrona BoIS was back at the second level in Swedish football again. However, during the years 1986 until 1991, the club mostly had to fight to avoid a new relegation.\nIn 1992 manager Conny Karlsson broke this trend, finishing on 3rd place. The following year, Karlsson got Landskrona BoIS promoted to Allsvenskan for the first time in 14 years.\n\nHowever, the club chose not to prolong the contract with successful manager Conny Karlsson. Instead, the Dane Torben Storm became new manager. The club was relegated in the 1994 season. However, the relegation did not become definite until the last day of the season. Major financial troubles became evident during the later part of the season A temporary board, led by Allan Karlsson, now got the task from the club members, to take over after the former chairman. The club needed to sell some of their profile players, such as Andreas Jakobsson and Greger Andrijevski, and the club's financial troubles led to bad results in the second tier, Division 1 Södra. For the second year in a row, the club was relegated.\n\nNow the temporary board brought the club's former legendary and celebrated striker Sonny Johansson back to the club as manager for a period of three years.\nAnd his first task, to bring the club back to the second tier of Swedish football was immediately accomplished during the 1997 season. And already the following season, 1998, Landskrona managed to become the runners-up in their league, just one single point behind the winners Kalmar FF. Only a lost home-away qualifier against Trelleborgs FF prevented a second promotion in a row for the club.\nDuring the 1999 season, a re-construction of the Swedish second tier was imminent. Instead of two geographical leagues, labeled as Division 1 South and North, the national Superettan would begin in 2000. Hence, it became imperative to finish the league at the upper half of the table, as the other half of the teams would be relegated. Landskrona BoIS secured their place in Superettan after a memorable game against Kristianstads FF. After 88 minutes, the score was 2–4 to Kristianstad, but when the referee blew his pipe this had changed into 5–4 to Landskrona BoIS.\n\nDuring its first ever season, Landskrona BoIS managed to profile themselves in Superettan, and defeated Malmö FF away, but the club had to wait one season longer for promotion. They eventually become successful in the 2001 Superettan, securing promotion to Allsvenskan after winning against Assyriska in the final game. In the premiere in Allsvenskan 2002, Landskrona BoIS defeated local rivals Helsingborgs IF with 6–2 at home, after a hattrick scored by striker Danijel Milovanović. During the first half of the season, BoIS was in top of the league, and even leading the table. They finished on 11th place in 2002, 2003 and 2004, but were relegated after finishing on 12th place in 2005 and losing the qualification game against GAIS. Notable players during the latest period in the highest division were amongst others Danijel Milovanovic, Hasan Cetinkaya, Daniel Nannskog, Håkan Söderstjerna, Alexander Farnerud, and Jonas Olsson.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2014, Landskrona BoIS have played nine consecutive seasons in the second highest division, Superettan. Swedish footballer Henrik Larsson was appointed manager of the club in 2009, and remained for three years before his departure following the 2012 season. Landskrona BoIS was relegated after the 2014 season and had to celebrate its hundredth birthday as a third tier club. The 1998 to 2013 chairman, Kenneth Håkansson, who still was a member of the board, refused to answer criticism asked by the local newspaper.\nThe club was relegated to the third tier (a division split in two regional leagues) just before the clubs 100 year anniversary, in the 2014 season. After three years outside Swedish elite football, the club managed to return to Superettan for the 2018 season. This began rather well and included a memorable 1–1 tie vs local rivals Helsingborg IF in front 8.192 spectators, the highest home attendance since Allsvenskan in 2005. BoIS equalized a late HIF score around the 90th minute. But during the summer most went all wrong, and the club had to face a relegation and return to the third tier.\n\nLandskrona BoIS, like most Swedish sports clubs, is a non-profit organization, run by a board which is elected annually by the club's members.\n\nLandskrona BoIS previously played in the middle of a simple kind of cycling track, locally referred to as \"Banan\" (English: \"the track\" or \"the lane\"). Football in Landskrona first became introduced at \"Banan\", and this ground, built in 1893, became the initial home of Landskrona BoIS, and its in 1915 merged predecessors IK Diana and IFK Landskrona.\n\nSince its construction in 1924, the same year as the inaugural Allsvenskan season, Landskrona IP has been the home of Landskrona BoIS. The first ever match at this venue was played between Landskrona BoIS and B 1903 from Denmark, which the Danish club won with 3–2.\n\nThe first Allsvenskan match at Landskrona IP was on 10 August 1924, when BoIS played IFK Göteborg and lost 4–0.\n\nThe record attendance of 18,535 was set on 18 October 1959 in a qualifying match to Allsvenskan, against Degerfors IF. Within Allsvenskan, the highest attendance is 17,697 against Malmö FF in 1975.\n\nIn the autumn of 2013, the Landskrona BoIS board suggested that the stadium should switch from natural grass to artificial turf. This led to protests from supporter groups, both in the form of banners at matches and protest petitions on the internet. The stadium, Landskrona IP is owned and run by the municipality of Landskrona, and as the protests reached the local municipality politicians, it was decided to keep the natural grass.\n\n\nAfter the reconstructions at Landskrona IP in 1990 and 1991, the attendance capacity at the venue was reduced to between 10.000 and 12.000 (depending of several changes at the western end).\nTop five attendances after 1991 are:\n\nformula_2 At this event the venue was overcrowded and the police closed the entrance for the terraced stands. The police also removed advertising behind the western goal, in order for more attendees who had paid their ground fee to be able to watch the game. Afterward did the club's chairman at the time apologize to the advertisers – but not to the paying attendees who could not see much. (The temporary western stands from the Helsingborgs IF match had been removed, which explains how 11.902 was not equally overcrowded just three months earlier).\nThe club had initially and during a time of 65 years, a very stable chairmanship, from 1915 until 1980 only three persons had this title, Bror Nilsson, Harry Wibratt and Claes Munck af Rosenschöld (forgetting one single year, 1936, in which Bror Nilsson's brother, Thure had this title). Perhaps sadly, this stability vanished in the 1980s. Between 1981 and 1995, the club had to use no less than 7 chairmen. With the arrival of Kenneth Håkansson a kind of stability returned. Håkansson doubtlessly had several benefits, and will be remembered for the 2002-2005 Allsvenskan spell. But beginning in 2005, he came up with various ideas of a new stadium. Every new such idea included a smaller but more expensive version. By 2010 he began proposing for brand new so-called \"multi-venue\" in the blowy harbour area, for just 6000 attenders. As this idea was rejected also by his closer associates, the focal point returned to changes of the club's current venue, Landskrona IP instead. Towards the end of the 2013 season, he and his board made a request to Landskrona Municipality, to get artificial turf at the stadium pitch. In Sweden, artificial turf had become popular in areas where the winter climate is much colder compared to Scania's. But football stadiums in Scania, as well as along the Swedish western coast, all were using real grass (and still is as of 2017). As Håkansson didn't listen to the club's supporters during several home matches, a public appeal in the local newspaper initiated protests of an unanticipated magnitude. The local politicians, who first had assumed that artificial turf would be popular, now decided not to grant the Landskrona BoIS board proposal of artificial turf. And this soon lead to Håkansson's fall as chairman, and due to the 2014 season relegation from Superettan to the third and regional tier, and for the club's 100 year celebration season in 2015, he also left the board entirely. Håkansson's service for the club will nevertheless be remembered together with the names of the other long term serving chairmen - Bror Nilsson, Harry Wibratt and Claes Munck af Rosenschöld. His successor Gabriel Munck has with modest means done well, and Landskrona BoIS managed to win their regional third tier league in 2017, and will from 2018 again play in Superettan.\n\nAs Gabriel Munck, after the promotion to Superettan, declared his wish to resign as chairman due to private reasons, an intern struggle for the chairmanship arose. When the nomination committee put their name forward, two other men also declared their wishes to become the new chairman. A unique situation for the club. The annual meeting had to be cancelled before it even began. A few days later, at 5 March in Folkets Hus (The People's House), the annual meeting could be held, and Urban Jansson was elected as the new chairman. \n\nThe largest supporter club is called Black & White, and was established in 1993. And in the winter before the upcoming season of Allsvenskan, where Landskrona made a comeback after several years in the lower divisions, was the supporter club made a formal institution with annual meetings and a board. Black & White have published the fanzine \"\"Halvtid\"\" (\"Half Time\") a bit now and then since 1994.\nSince the building of Landskrona IP in 1924, the singing supporters have always stood on the part of IP (the northern stand terraces) which occasionally is called the \"English Stand\" (). The majority of the club's supporters are from the city of Landskrona, but they also draw support from nearby towns such as Svalöv, Eslöv, Kävlinge, Löddeköpinge and Lund. A group of supporters in Stockholm also exists.\n\n The main rivals have varied throughout history. Helsingborgs IF is by many supporters considered the greatest rival.\nThe cities are geographically close to each other, and the supporters of the two teams hold a certain grudge, which dates back to the beginning of the 20th century. There is also a rivalry between Landskrona and Malmö FF, which reaches back to the 1930s. During the successful 1970s, Malmö FF was definitely the only rival, as Helsingborg didn't participate in Allsvenskan. The derby matches between the teams from Scania are called \"Skånederbyn\". In a poll from 2005, Landskrona supporters were asked which club was most important to beat during the season. A majority answered Helsingborgs IF (with 64.6% of the votes) followed by Malmö FF (26.9%).\n\nFor Landskrona's first season, they wore a black and white striped top with black shorts and white socks. They have worn the same home shirts ever since. The away shirt have traditionally always been a red top with black shorts, however there are a few exceptions. In 2003, the away shirt was in the colors of the Scanian flag; a bright yellow top with red shorts, and in the 2012 and 2013 season the club changed to a pink top with white shorts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The managers are listed according to their first season as manager for Landskrona BoIS\":\n\n\n\"The club has never played below the third highest league in Swedish football.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816948", "title": "Kalmar FF", "text": "Kalmar FF\n\nKalmar Fotbollsförening, more commonly known as Kalmar FF, Kalmar or (especially locally) KFF, is a Swedish professional football club based in Kalmar. The club is affiliated to Smålands Fotbollförbund and play their home games at Guldfågeln Arena. Formed on 15 June 1910 as IF Göta, the club have won one national championship title (2008) and three national cup titles (1981, 1987 & 2007). Kalmar FF's local rivals are Kalmar AIK and Östers IF.\n\nOn 15 June 1910, the club IF Göta was created, however they were not allowed to enter the \"Riksidrottsförbundet\" due to a conflict regarding the name. The name was already taken by Stockholm's-Göta and Karlstads-Göta. Later in 1912 the club changed its name to IF Gothia and was then accepted by \"Riksidrottsförbundet\".\n\nIn 1918 Fredriksskans was opened and at the same time the where a major conference in Kalmar about the high number of clubs in the town, this led to the merging of \"IF Gothia\" and \"Kamraterna\" to Kalmar Idrotts Sällskap and \"Kalmar IK\" merged with \"Falken\" to form Kalmar AIK. In 1927 Kalmar Idrotts Sällskap changed its name to Kalmar FF.\n\nIn 1927–1928 they qualified for the local league in the Swedish league system, IFK Oskarshamn won the league and was moved up to the Southswedish league, covering both Småland and Skåne, however IFK Oskarshamn renounced its position and it was given to Kalmar FF, this gave rise to complaint from the clubs in Skåne since there were no good train connections to Kalmar at that time, however SJ solved it. In their first game they defeated Malmö FF with 6–0.\n\nIn 1949 the club reached Allsvenskan for the first time after defeating Halmstads BK in the decisive game of the season; during this time Swedish leagues were played autumn–spring, on 31 July they played their first game in Allsvenskan against Degerfors IF and lost 2–0, afterward, the later world-famous Gunnar Nordahl claimed that he had seen much worse newcomers, also this year, on 4 September Kalmar faced Malmö FF in front of 15 093 people in the audience; this is still the audience record on Fredriksskans.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1955 the club went up and down between Allsvenskan and \"Division 2\". In 1955 they fell down to Division 2 and stayed there for 20 years; during this time players like Hungarian Ference Marko represented the club at the same time as he lived at the refugee camp in Borgholm in 1957, in 1959 Sune \"Mona-Lisa\" Andersson, who won an Olympic medal in the 1948 Summer Olympics as a player, as manager, during this time Sten-Åke Johansson played for the club and became the top goalscorer for all time for the club, on 19 October 1975 Kalmar FF defeated Västra Frölunda and returned to Allsvenskan.\n\nIn 1976 the club played its 100th game in Allsvenskan against GIF Sundsvall, however this ended with 9–2 defeat and led to manager Kay Wiestål being fired. The 1977 season became the club's most successful season so far; a group of companies sponsored the club's buying of Benno Magnusson; the club was able to end in 3rd place at the end of the season, earning the club its first medal.\n\nIn 1981 the club won its first title ever, by defeating IF Elfsborg with 4–0, the club won the Svenska Cupen for the first time ever, however they failed to stay in Allsvenskan and was relegated to Division 1; however the spell was only one year long and Kalmar returned in 1983.\n\n1985 became the club's most successful season, as the club ended up in second place behind Örgryte IS and Billy Lansdowne and Peter Karlsson both became the league's top goalscorer along with Sören Börjesson, Örgryte IS, all scoring 10 goals each. The following year did not go as good; the club was relegated from the top league and the only happiness in 1987 was when the club yet again won the Cup title, this time against GAIS, however the club fell out of Division 1 this year.\n\nIn 1988 Kalmar FF won Division 2 without a single defeat which is a record in Division 2 and higher leagues. Between 1989 and 1997 the club spent most of its time in second highest league; this caused serious economic problems for the club.\n\nAfter returning to Allsvenskan in 1998, but in 1999 the club fell out again, the only good thing was that the economy had been restored and was in good shape again. During the 2000 season club had to fight to avoid relegation from the second highest league and was only able to do it in the end of the season.\n\nThe goal of the 2001 season was to return to Allsvenskan again, after buying several new players such as Lasse Johansson, Fredrik Gärdeman and Lucas Nilsson, the club was able to return to Allsvenskan again, unfortunately the club was relegated directly. During the 2002 the first Brazilian, Alysson, arrived at the club.\n\nThe spell in Superettan 2003 became only one year as Kalmar won the league well ahead of Trelleborgs FF, purchase of Daniel Mendes and Dudu helped the club a lot.\n\nIn 2004 the club bought three new Brazilian players, Dedé Anderson, Fábio Augusto and César Santin, they all helped the club to a 5th place in Allsvenskan, just missing out on Royal League, the club also made a change board as chairman Ronny Nilsson left after 12 years at the helm, he was replaced by Tommy Strandman.\n\nThe two following seasons, 2005 and 2006, Kalmar ended up in 3rd and 5th respectively. Then in 2007 they made a great run from start to finish and finally ended up in second place after champions IFK Göteborg. They won Svenska Cupen the same year by beating IFK Göteborg with 3–0 at Fredriksskans in Kalmar.\n\nBefore the start, several Swedish experts believed that Kalmar FF would be one of the teams fighting for the championship title 2008, the club started the season stable and as the season went on the club performance became stronger and saw the club win many big victories, only other team able to keep up was IF Elfsborg. The club had to wait until the last match of the season against Halmstads BK in Halmstad before they could become champions. Before the final match Elfsborg was behind with 3 points and 9 goals. The match against Halmstads BK ended 2–2 placing the club 1 point ahead of Elfsborg. Patrik Ingelsten also became the league's top goalscorer of the season with 19 goals scored. The team reached the final in Svenska Cupen yet again and also this year against IFK Göteborg, however this year IFK won 5–4 on penalties after full-time and extra time had ended 0–0. The club also had the chance to reach the group stage of the UEFA Cup. After strong play against Racing FC from Luxembourg and Gent from Belgium, the club faced Dutch team Feyenoord, after winning 1–0 away in Rotterdam the club lost home with 1–2, in Borås at Borås Arena since Fredriksskans failed to reach UEFA demands, sending the club out of the competition on away goals.\nThe colours and kits have changed several times over the course of history. From its founding in 1910, Kalmar FF were striped green and red. In 1915 it was changed to red shirts and black shorts. After 1927 red-white striped shirt and red shorts. 1934-35 they returned to the red shirt and black shorts. In 1940, the red-and-white striped shirt and red shorts again. Full red shirt and white shorts, like today, Kalmar FF had for the first time in 1944. In 1952-56, as countless other Swedish clubs, they had the of the time popular Arsenal costume, with white sleeves. \n\nThe club's first kit manufacturer was Adidas, until a three-year deal was agreed with Umbro in 1995. Puma received the contract in 1998 and their sponsorship lasted for seventeen years. In 2016, Hummel was presented as the new kit manufacturer of the club.\n\nThe following list ranks the current position of Kalmar FF in the UEFA ranking (as of 27 January 2017):\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816950", "title": "The Space Museum", "text": "The Space Museum\n\nThe Space Museum is the seventh serial of the second season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 24 April to 15 May 1965. Set in a space museum on the planet Xeros, the serial has the time traveller the First Doctor (William Hartnell) and his travelling companions Ian Chesterton (William Russell), Barbara Wright (Jacqueline Hill), and Vicki (Maureen O'Brien) looking for a way to change their fate after seeing themselves turned into museum exhibits in the future.\n\nThe TARDIS arrives near a vast Space Museum on the planet Xeros, but has jumped a time-track. The First Doctor, Ian, Barbara and Vicki have a series of bizarre experiences as they venture outside and into the Museum – not least that they see but cannot be seen by the militaristic Moroks who run the museum, or the servile indigenous Xerons who work for them. The museum contains fascinating exhibits, including a Dalek shell, but the most worrying is that the four travellers and the TARDIS are on display, with the Doctor and company in glass cases. A few moments later, the time track slips back and, the exhibit with themselves and the TARDIS vanish, but the travellers are still inside the Museum.\n\nThe head of the Moroks, Lobos, is a bored and desperate museum administrator and colony governor, who reflects sourly that the glories of the Morok Empire are past. Like Rome, the Empire became decadent and then declined. The Moroks have found the TARDIS and now start tracking down the occupants who have, as usual, become separated. The Doctor is the first to be found, but evades their interrogation tactics.\n\nMeanwhile, Vicki has made contact with the Xerons and, hearing of their enslavement, aids them in their plans to stage a revolution. They attack the Morok armoury and Vicki outwits its controlling computer. With their new weapons, the Xerons are able to begin a revolution, which slowly takes hold.\n\nIan has meanwhile freed the Doctor from Lobos, who had begun the process of freezing him and turning him into an exhibit. Ian and the Doctor are quickly recaptured by the Morok guards, and Barbara and Vicki are captured shortly thereafter. With all four held prisoner in the Museum, it looks like the time track prediction of their future as museum exhibits will soon be realised after all.\n\nHelp comes from the Xeron revolutionaries, who kill Lobos and the other Morok captors. The Xerons then go about destroying the hated Museum as the TARDIS crew slips away. They take with them a time/space visualiser as a souvenir. On the planet Skaro, their departure is noted by the Daleks.\n\nEpisode 1 begins with a brief reprise of \"The Crusade\" episode 4, which is currently the only surviving film footage of that episode.\n\nWilliam Hartnell was on holiday during the recording of episode 3. Thus, he is only seen in the reprise of episode 2.\n\nThis story features an appearance by Jeremy Bulloch, who later played Hal in \"The Time Warrior\" (1973–74).\nIvor Salter later played Odysseus in \"The Myth Makers\" (1965) and Sergeant Markham in \"Black Orchid\" (1982). Peter Craze is the younger brother of Michael Craze, who played companion Ben Jackson from 1966 to 1967. Peter later played Du Pont in \"The War Games\" (1969) and Costa in \"Nightmare of Eden\" (1979).\n\nIn 2009, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" noted that \"The Space Museum\" \"kicks off so well\", but did not take the opportunity to discuss ideas such as predestination and also boasted a predictable, \"poorly acted\" conflict and many implausibilities. However, he felt that the serial showcased Vicki's \"vibrant\" character and the Dalek joke was \"one of the few elements that make this rather tedious traipse memorable\". Reviewing the DVD release, \"SFX\" Nick Setchfield described \"The Space Museum\" as offering a \"killingly dull environment in which to stage an unengaging take on \"Who\"'s eternal 'rebels vs despots' formula\", despite the \"lovely fourth-dimensional weirdness\" of the first episode and the \"refreshing\" Moroks who were reminiscent of Douglas Adams' work. Jonathan Wilkins of \"Dreamwatch\" also called the first episode \"great\" and the rest \"dull, bog-standard \"Who\"\" which were \"not terrible but ... not terribly exciting either, as it plods rather than races towards a deeply unsatisfactory climax\".\n\nGraham Kibble-White, writing for \"Doctor Who Magazine\", said that the first episode falsely set the audience up for \"three more weeks of high-concept plotting\", when in fact the Doctor dismissed the time travel problems and the rest was \"dreary\" except for some of Hartnell's charm. DVD Talk's John Sinnott was more positive towards the story, writing, \"there were a lot of great plot points that served to keep viewers guessing, and some subtle comedy that really added a lot to the whole show\". He also complemented the light touches of humour. In 2010, io9's Charlie Jane Anders listed the cliffhanger of the first episode as among the best in the programme.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Glyn Jones, was published by Target Books in January 1987.\n\nThis story was released alongside the surviving episodes of \"The Crusade\" on VHS in 1999. The audio soundtrack was released with narration from Maureen O'Brien on CD in May 2009. It was released on DVD in a box set with \"The Chase\" on 1 March 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1816955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816955", "title": "George T. Barclay", "text": "George T. Barclay\n\nGeorge T. Barclay (May 24, 1910 – October 6, 1997) was an American football player and coach. He served as the head football coach at Washington and Lee University from 1949 to 1951 and at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from 1953 to 1955, compiling a career college football record of 28–30–2. Barclay was a standout guard and linebacker at the North Carolina. He was a three-year starting player from 1932 to 1934. Barclay made the first team All-Southern Conference as a guard in 1933 and 1934 and was an All-American in 1934.\n\nWhile serving as head coach at Washington and Lee University, Barclay took the Generals to their one and only post season bowl appearance in 1950 when they were beaten by Wyoming in the Gator Bowl. He was named the Southern Conference and Virginia Coach of the Year. Barclay became an assistant coach at Carolina under Carl Snavely. Snavely was a proponent of the single-wing offense, but thought Carolina's players were more suited to the split-T formation, and Barclay helped install it there. In 1953, he was hired as the head football coach. Barclay was dismissed from his alma mater in 1955, and replaced by Jim Tatum, who had been a teammate with him at Carolina.\n\nBarclay died in 1997. The George Barclay Award for outstanding linebacker at North Carolina named in his honor. He was inducted to the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame in 1976. Barclay Road in Chapel Hill, North Carolina is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "1816958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816958", "title": "Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic", "text": "Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic\n\nThe Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (, '), shortened to Moldavian ASSR, was an autonomous republic of the Ukrainian SSR between 12 October 1924 and 2 August 1940, encompassing as well the modern territory of Transnistria (today \"de jure\" in Moldova, but \"de facto\" an independent state; see political status of Transnistria). It was an artificial political creation inspired by the Bolshevik nationalities policy in the context of the loss of larger Bessarabia to Romania in April 1918. In such a manner, the Bolshevik leadership tried to radicalize pro-Soviet feelings in Bessarabia with a goal to return it in the presence of favorable conditions and creation of geopolitical \"place d'armes\" (bridgehead) to execute a breakthrough in the Balkan direction by projecting influence upon Romanian Bessarabia, which would eventually be occupied in 1940 after the signing of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nThe active propagandist of idea in creation of Moldavian autonomy on territory of Ukrainian Transnistria was Russian revolutionary and a native of Bessarabia Grigory Kotovsky (a member of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee). In February 1924, a memorandum directed to the Central Committee of the Russian Communist Party (Bolshevik) and the Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine and signed by Grigory Kotovsky, Bădulescu Alexandru, Pavel Tcacenco, Solomon Tinkelman (Timov), Alexandru Nicolau, Alter Zalic, Ion Dic Dicescu (also known as Isidor Cantor), Theodor Diamandescu, Teodor Chioran, and Vladimir Popovici, all signatories being Bolshevik activists (several of them from Bucharest). The memorandum emphasized on the fact that on the left bank of Dniester compactly live from 500,000 to 800,000 Moldavians and that creation of Moldavian republic would play a role of powerful political and propaganda factor in solving the \"Bessarabian question\".\n\nEstablishing the republic became a matter of dispute. Despite the objections of Soviet commissar of foreign relations Chicherin who argued that the new establishment would only strengthen the position of Romanians towards Bessarabia and able to activate \"expansionist claims of Romanian chauvinism\", Kremlin launched a campaign to create the autonomy attracting to it Bessarabian refugees and Romanian political emigrants who lived in Moscow and the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic.\n\nOn the other hand, Kotovski held that a new republic would spread Communist ideas into neighboring Bessarabia, with a chance that even Romania and the entire Balkan region would be revolutionized. For the Soviets the republic was to be a way for winning over Bessarabians of Romania and the first step towards a revolution in Romania. This purpose is explained in an article of the newspaper \"Odessa Izvestia\" in 1924, in which a Russian politician, Vadeev says that \"all the oppressed Moldavians from Bessarabia look at the future Republic like at a lighthouse, which spreads the light of freedom and human dignity,\" as well as in a book published in Moscow, which claimed that \"once the economic and cultural growth of Moldavia has begun, aristocracy-led Romania will not be able to maintain its hold on Bessarabia.\" While the creation of ethnic-based autonomous republics was a general Soviet policy at that time, with the creation of the Moldavian ASSR, the Soviet Union also hoped to bolster its claim to Bessarabia.\n\nOn March 7, 1924, the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (b) of Ukraine recognized a political prudence in creation of autonomy, yet to the final untangling of the question it was decided to return after a careful ascertainment of situation in the region. The debated question was about a form in meeting the interests of Moldovan population (autonomous republic, autonomous oblast, district, or raion). Whereas in process of carried work it became clear that statistical data on the number of Moldovans presented by the Kotovsky's commission is inflated compared to official, on 18 April 1924 the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (b) of Ukraine approved to consider creation of the autonomy inappropriate. However, in Moscow this position was ignored. The All-Ukrainian Central Executive Committee (VUTsVK) yet went further and about a week later on 24 April 1924 it created the VUTsVK Central Commission on affairs of national minorities.\n\nAccepted on 29 July, the decision of the Central Committee of the Russian Communist Party (Bolshevik) contained categorical indication for the Central Committee of the Communist Party (b) of Ukraine on allocation of the Moldovan population into a special Autonomous republic as part of the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic and obligated it to report already after a month about the course of the relevant work. The decision about creation of the Autonomous Moldavian Socialist Soviet Republic was accepted by the 8th convocation of the All-Ukrainian Central Executive Committee at its 3rd session on 12 October 1924.\n\nThe Moldavian ASSR was created from a territory previously administered as parts of the Odessa and Podolian Governorates of Ukraine. It accounted for 2% of the land and population of the Ukrainian SSR at the time.\n\nInitially (March 1924) organized as an oblast (Moldavian Autonomous Oblast), it had only four districts, all of them having a Moldavian majority:\n\nOn 12 October 1924, the oblast was elevated to the status of an autonomous republic and included several other territories, including some with little Moldavian population, such as the Balta district (where the capital was located), which had only 2.52% Moldavians.\n\nThe official capital was proclaimed the \"temporarily occupied city of Kishinev\". Meanwhile, a provisional capital was established in Balta and moved to Tiraspol in 1929, where it remained until part of the MASSR was integrated into the newly created Moldavian SSR, in 1940.\n\nThe Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was established inside the Ukrainian SSR, on 12 October 1924.\n\nThe area was quickly industrialized, and because of the lack of a qualified workforce, a significant migration from other Soviet republics occurred, predominantly Ukrainians and Russians. In particular, in 1928, of 14,300 industrial workers only about 600 were Moldavians.\n\nIn 1925, the MASSR survived a famine.\n\nIn December 1927, \"Time\" reported a number of anti-Soviet uprisings among peasants and factory workers in Tiraspol and other cities (Mogilev-Podolskiy, Kamyanets-Podolskiy) of southern Ukrainian SSR. Troops from Moscow were sent to the region and suppressed the unrest, resulting in ca 4000 deaths. The insurrections were at the time completely denied by the official Kremlin press.\n\nCollectivization in the MASSR was even more fast-paced than in Ukraine and was reported to be complete by summer 1931. This was accompanied by the deportation of about 2,000 families to Kazakhstan.\n\nIn 1932–33 another famine, known as Holodomor in Ukraine, occurred, with tens of thousands of peasants dying of starvation. During the famine, thousands of inhabitants tried to escape over the Dniester, despite the threat of being shot. The most notable such incident happened near the village Olănești on February 23, 1932, when 40 persons were shot. This was reported in European newspapers by survivors. The Soviet side reported this as an escape of \"kulak elements subverted by Romanian propaganda.\"\n\nOn 30 October 1930, from an improvised studio in Tiraspol, started broadcasting in Romanian language a Soviet radio of 4 kW whose main purpose was the anti-Romanian propaganda to Bessarabia between Prut and Dniester. In the context in which a new radio mast, M. Gorky, built in 1936 in Tiraspol, allowed a greater coverage of the territory of Moldova, the Romanian state broadcaster started in 1937 to build Radio Basarabia, to counter Soviet propaganda.\n\nMoldavian ASSR had a mixed population, in which less than one third was Moldavian. Its area was and included 11 \"raions\" on the left bank of Dniester.\n\nAccording to the 1926 Soviet census, the Republic had a population of 572,339, of which:\n\nDespite this extensive territory allotted to the Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, about 85,000 Moldavians remained in Ukraine outside the territory of MASSR.\n\nThe tenet that the Moldavian language is distinct from the Romanian language was heavily promoted in the republic. Modern linguists generally agree that there is little difference between the two, mainly in accent and vocabulary. The republic also promoted irredentism towards Romania, proclaiming that the Moldavians in Bessarabia were \"oppressed by Romanian imperialists\".\n\nAs part of the effort to keep the language in Soviet Moldavia (\"Moldavian Socialist culture\") far from Romanian influences (\"Romanian bourgeois culture\"), a reformed Cyrillic script was used to write the language, in contrast with the Latin script officially used in Romania. The linguist Leonid Madan was assigned the task of establishing a literary standard, based on the Moldavian dialects of Transnistria and Bessarabia, as well as Russian loanwords or Russian-based calque.\n\nIn 1932, when in the entire Soviet Union there was a trend to move all languages to the Latin script, the Latin script and literary Romanian language was introduced in Moldavian schools and public use. Madan's books were removed from libraries and destroyed. This movement, however, was short lived, and in the second half of the 1940s a new trend of moving languages to the Cyrillic script started in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1937, during the Soviet Great Purge, many intellectuals in the Moldavian ASSR, accused of being enemies of the people, bourgeois nationalist or Trotskyist, were removed from their positions and repressed, with a large number of them executed. In 1938 the Cyrillic script was again declared official for the Moldavian language and the Latin script was banned. However, the literary language did not fully return to Madan's creation and remained closer to Romanian. After 1956, Madan's influences were entirely dropped from school books.\n\nThis policy remained in effect until 1989. Use of Cyrillic is still enforced in Moldova's breakaway region of Transnistria, where it is claimed to be returning the language to its roots.\n\nOn June 26, 1940 the Soviet government issued an ultimatum to the Romanian minister in Moscow, demanding Romania to immediately cede Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina. Italy and Germany, which needed a stable Romania and access to its oil fields urged King Carol II to comply. Under duress, with no prospect of aid from France or Britain, Romania ceded those territories. On June 28, Soviet troops crossed the Dniester and occupied Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina, and the Hertza region. Territories where ethnic Ukrainians were the largest ethnic group (parts of Northern Bukovina and parts of Hotin, Cetatea Albă, and Izmail), as well as some adjoining regions with a Romanian majority, such as the Hertza region, were annexed to the Ukrainian SSR. The transfer of Bessarabia's Black Sea and Danube frontage to Ukraine ensured its control by a stable Soviet republic.\n\nOn August 2, 1940, the Soviet Union established the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic (Moldavian SSR), which consisted of six counties of Bessarabia joined with the westernmost part of what had been the MASSR, effectively dissolving it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816965", "title": "BK Häcken", "text": "BK Häcken\n\nBollklubben Häcken, more commonly known as BK Häcken or simply Häcken (), is a Swedish professional football club based in Gothenburg. The club is affiliated to Göteborgs Fotbollförbund and play their home games at Bravida Arena. The club colours, reflected in their crest and kit, are yellow and black. Formed on 2 August 1940, the club has played sixteen seasons in Sweden's highest football league Allsvenskan, the club's first season in the league was in 1983. The club plays in Allsvenskan, the top tier of Swedish football.\n\nThe club was started by a group of 14- to 15-year-old youngsters, and they had a wish to not just play football for fun but to create an organisation and play in the national league system. The boys turned to \"Göteborgs Fotbollförbund\", the local FA, the boys had been playing under the name BK Kick earlier. However, the name was already taken by another organisation, the name was then changed to \"Bollklubben Häcken\" after the huge hedge (sv: häck) which grew around the field the boys used to practise on. The organisation Bollklubben Häcken came into existence on 2 August 1940.\n\nFollowing the first years the club only played sporadic matches, youth championships and a few other matches, but eventually they started to play at the senior level. As of 1943 the club started to take in the league system and success came in an instant. Between 1944 and 1947 the club won their league and climbed from \"west seniorclass 4\" to \"seniorclass 1\".\n\nThe start of the 1950s went as well as the 1940s had. The club won Division 4 in 1950 and when they won Division 3 in 1951 they went from a local club to be known as a \"comet team\" in the national media. The club fought for a place in Allsvenskan in 1953 but saw themselves defeated by Kalmar FF, and in 1954 the club was relegated from Division 2. In 1955 the club set the record for the most spectators during a Division 3 game against IK Oddevold, when 18,229 people showed up for the game. BK Häcken eventually won the league but returned soon again and played in Division 3 for the rest of the decade.\n\nThe 1960s started with the opening of the club's new clubhouse, now known as \"Häckensborg\". Häcken spent most of the decade as a stable Division 3 team, but in 1967 they were relegated to Division 4 and it was struck by some severe economical and internal problems.\n\nThe 1970s started just as badly as the previous decade ended. The club fell out of Division 4 and held discussions with IF Warta about a merger. A discussion had been up several times earlier but had not gone as far as now, at the day of the voting the IF Warta members voted for a merging while the BK Häcken members voted against it. In 1971 the club won Division 5, the club then played in Division 4 until 1975 when they won it and in 1977 they won Division 3 with former Swedish international Agne Simonsson as manager, when the club earlier won Division 3 in 1951 they climbed directly up to Division 2, however this time they had to play a qualifier against IK Brage, Motala AIF and Degerfors. The club won and took the step up to Division 2. During 1978–79 the club played successfully in Division 2 with a 3rd place as the best position. In 1978 BK Häcken also started a ladies team.\n\nThe new decade started as strong as the last one ended, Agne Simonsen continued to bring success to the club as they won Division 2 and qualified for a position in Allsvenskan, however IF Elfsborg proved too strong with a 0–1 home defeat at Gamla Ullevi and then a 1–1 result in Borås at Ryavallen. However, during the game at Gamla Ullevi, BK Häcken sets the club record for biggest home audience with 19 205.\nHowever the club was not let down by this and came in 2nd place in 1982 and this time they qualified for the promotion play-offs against IFK Norrköping, BK Häcken is able to reach a 2–0 result home at Rambergsvallen and then achieve a 1–1 away at Idrottsparken in Norrköping and the club reached Allsvenskan for the first time in club history.\nThe time that BK Häcken spends in Allsvenskan is however short, the club's successful manager Agne Simonsen leaves for a local competitor and Reine Almqvist takes over, the club ends up last in the league and is relegated back to Division 2 where they play for the rest of the 1980s.\n\nBK Häcken starts the 1990s with winning Division 1 söder and faces GIF Sundsvall in the promotion play-offs, and despite an impressive 5–2 victory at home for Häcken, Sundsvall is able to come back in and win the match in Sundsvall and gets promoted to Allsvenskan. The club was also successful plying in Svenska Cupen and reaches the final, but are defeated again, this time 3–0 by Djurgårdens IF.\nThe club is close in reaching Allsvenskan again in 1991, but a 2–2 home and 1–1 away sees them losing the position to Helsingborgs IF.\n1992 is more successful as they reach Allsvenskan through a 4th place in Kvalsvenskan and this time the spell in the top league is not as short as earlier, BK Häcken ends up on in 6th place in 1993 and gets to play a second year in Allsvenskan, however the club ends up last in the league in 1994 and following some turbulence on the leadership side of the club it stays in Division 1 until 1997 as the club ended up in 2nd place and qualifies for the play-offs against Västerås SK, with a 1–1 home and with a 4–2 away BK Häcken climbs up to Allsvenskan again.\nThe club is however relegated again in 1998 after ending up second last, but returns in 1999 after winning Division 1 Södra, this year Kim Källström also makes his debut for the club.\n\nThe new millennium continues as the last decade did, the club is able to defend its Allsvenska position in a relegation/promotion play-off against Mjällby AIF in the end of the 2000 season after penalties, Kjell Pettersson leaves the club and Torbjörn Nilsson takes over as manager.\n2001 BK Häcken plays its sixth season overall in Allsvenskan but ends second last and is relegated to Superettan, through a cooperation with Floda BoIF future Liberian national Dulee Johnson arrives at the club and in 2002 and he gets company from Jimmy Dixon and Dioh Williams.\nBK Häcken stays in Superettan until 2004, being close to take the step up both in 2002, failing on goal difference, and in 2003, defeated by GIF Sundsvall in the play-offs, in 2004 the clubs reaches Allsvenskan by winning Superettan.\nThe club brings in former Swedish international Teddy Lučić and Danish international Stig Tøfting in 2005 in an attempt to reach a higher position the earlier, the club reaches 8th places.\nThe 2006 season gets harder as Stig Tøfting and Dulee Johnson leaves the club and the club is forced to play against a qualify against IF Brommapojkarna, BK Häcken is defeated by a total of 4–1 and is relegated to Superettan.\n\nIn 2010, Häcken earned the Fair Play award for the Allsvenskan. This resulted in the team earning a spot in the 1st Qualifying Round of the 2011–12 UEFA Europa League when Sweden won third place in the UEFA Fair Play ranking.\n\nIn 2012, BK Häcken finished second in Allsvenskan, which is their best performance in the league so far. During this season, the Ghanaian striker Waris Majeed scored 23 goals, which made him the Allsvenskan top scorer of the year. In 2016, Häcken secured their first main title, as they beat Malmö FF in the final of the Svenska Cupen, and won the cup title. In 2019, Häcken secured their second main title, as they beat AFC Eskilstuna in the final of the Svenska Cupen with 3–0 at Bravida Arena.\n\nHäcken's main rivals are the three other main Gothenburg teams IFK Göteborg, GAIS and Örgryte IS, with IFK being considered the biggest rival.\nA lesser rivalry also consists between Häcken and IF Elfsborg from Borås, as well as with some teams from the island of Hisingen in the names of IF Warta and Hisingsbacka FC, especially between the younger sections of the teams.\n\nAllsvenskan\n\nSuperettan\n\nDivision 1 Södra:\n\nDivision 1 Västra\n\nSvenska Cupen\n\nLegend: GF = Goals For. GA = Goals Against. GD = Goal Difference.\n\n2 – Johan Lind, defender (1995–2010)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816973", "title": "Monument Class Description", "text": "Monument Class Description\n\nA Monument Class Description provides a synthesis and summary of the archaeological evidence for a particular type of British ancient monument. The Monument Class Descriptions were created by English Heritage as part of the Monuments Protection Programme.\n\nBecause archaeological remains are seldom good subjects for rigorous classification, these monument classes are regarded as provisional. However, they provide a good basis for beginning to understand the variability of the archaeological record in England.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816976", "title": "Nguyễn Thị Định", "text": "Nguyễn Thị Định\n\nMadame Nguyễn Thị Định (15 March 1920 – 26 August 1992) was the first female general of Vietnam People's Army during the Vietnam War. Her role in the war was as National Liberation Front deputy commander, and was described as \"the most important Southern woman revolutionary in the war\". Furthermore, she was commander of an all-female force known as the Long-Haired Army, whom engaged in espionage and combat against ARVN and US Forces.\n\nNguyễn Thị Định was born from a peasant family in Bến Tre Province, and fought with the Viet Minh forces against the French. She was arrested and incarcerated by the French colonial authority between 1940–43, and helped lead an insurrection in Bến Tre in 1945, and again in 1960 (against the government of Ngô Đình Diệm). In that period, she lost her first husband and child while incarcerated by French authorities. She was a founding member of the National Liberation Front (NLF). In 1965 she was elected chairwoman of the South Vietnam Women's Liberation Association, whom were given the name the \"long-haired warriors\" by Ho Chi Minh. A portion of membership in the National Liberation Front continued to be women, and many were drawn to the promise of changes in the role of women in society.\n\nAfter the Vietnam War and the reunification of Vietnam, Madame Định served on the Central Committee of the Vietnamese Communist Party and also became the first female major general to serve in the Vietnam People's Army. She was also one of the Deputy Chairmen of the Council of State from 1987 until her death. Together with Madame Nguyễn Thị Bình, she is one of the two most prominent female Vietnamese communist leaders. She was awarded the Lenin Peace Prize for 1967. In 1995, she was posthumously awarded the title Hero of the People's Armed Forces. \n\nHer memoirs were translated and published by Cornell University Press in 1976. Nguyen Thi Dinh was interviewed by Stanley Karnow for documentary. She contributed the piece \"The braided army\" to the 1984 anthology \"\", edited by Robin Morgan.\n"}
{"id": "1816978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816978", "title": "Confusion Is Sex", "text": "Confusion Is Sex\n\nConfusion Is Sex is the debut studio album by American noise rock band Sonic Youth. It was released on 12\" vinyl in February 1983 by record label Neutral. It has been cited as an important example of the no wave genre. AllMusic called it \"lo-fi to the point of tonal drabness, as the instruments seem to ring out in only one tone, that of screechy noise\". \n\n\"Confusion Is Sex\" was recorded by Wharton Tiers in his Chelsea studio (which he had set up in the basement of a building where he worked as a superintendent). It was mostly recorded during Jim Sclavunos' brief tenure as drummer for the band, and he appears on drums for most of the album. Frustrated by the unconventional recording situation in Tiers' studio and generally not clicking with the band musically, Sclavunos was ejected and Bob Bert was invited back. Bert appeared on \"Making the Nature Scene\" and the live Stooges cover \"I Wanna Be Your Dog\". \"Confusion Is Sex\" is the only Sonic Youth album on which guitarist Lee Ranaldo plays bass, specifically on the song \"Protect Me You\".\n\nThe lyrics to \"The World Looks Red\" were written by Michael Gira of the band Swans, who would later reuse the same lyrics on the song \"The World Looks Red/The World Looks Black\" on that band's 2016 album \"The Glowing Man\".\n\nRanaldo recorded the track \"Lee Is Free\" solo at home on two tape recorders.\n\nThe cover image is a sketch by bassist Kim Gordon of guitarist Thurston Moore. This image was used on gig posters early in the band's career.\n\nSonic Youth\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "1816980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816980", "title": "Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)", "text": "Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\n\n\"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\" is a song recorded by The Jacksons for their 1978 album \"Destiny\", and released as a single the same year. It peaked at No. 7 in the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in May 1979.\n\nThe most successful of the Jacksons' recordings for Epic, \"Shake Your Body\" (originally demoed as \"Shake a Body\") was produced by the Jackson brothers, written by Randy and Michael, and featured Michael on lead vocals. The chorus \"let's dance/let's shout (shout)/shake your body down to the ground\" was inspired by an ad-lib from Marvin Gaye's \"Got to Give It Up\": \"Let's dance/let's shout (shout)/gettin' funky's what it's all about\" and the rhythmic pattern from Teddy Pendergrass's \"Get Up, Get Down, Get Funky, Get Loose\" (from his album \"Life Is a Song Worth Singing\", released a couple of months previously).\n\nReleased to radio in a single edit of three minutes and forty-five seconds (and played in its full eight-minute album version by clubs), the single reached No. 3 in \"Cash Box\" magazine and peaked at no. 7 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. It also peaked at No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Soul Singles chart. The ensuing 12\" Disco Single Remix featured a more focused drum and rhythm track, as well as the new synthesizer-voiced three octave climbing glissando that was not heard on the album version. \"Shake Your Body\" sold over one million copies, attaining platinum status from the Recording Industry Association of America.\n\nThe B-side on the 7\" was \"That's What You Get (For Being Polite)\".\n\nThe first performance of \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\" was on the second leg of The Jacksons' Destiny Tour in 1979. Later, it was performed on the Triumph Tour in 1981. In 1984 it was performed on the Victory Tour. In 1987, it was performed on the first leg of Jackson's Bad Tour. It was also performed during the at the Madison Square Garden in New York City in September 2001; it would be the last song performed live by the Jacksons before the death of Michael Jackson in 2009. The song was going to be performed as an instrumental interlude (merged with Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough) during Jackson's 2009-2010 This Is It concert series at London's O2 Arena, which was cancelled due to his sudden death. The song was remixed and released on the deluxe edition of the Michael Jackson's \"Immortal\" album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816981", "title": "Gavel", "text": "Gavel\n\nA gavel is a small ceremonial mallet commonly made of hardwood, typically fashioned with a handle. It is used almost exclusively in the United States in legislatures and courts of law, but is used worldwide for auctions. It can be used to call for attention or to punctuate rulings and proclamations and is a symbol of the authority and right to act officially in the capacity of a presiding officer. It is often struck against a sound block, a striking surface typically also made of hardwood, to enhance its sounding qualities. According to tradition, Vice President John Adams used a gavel as a call to order in the first U.S. Senate in New York in the spring of 1789. Since then, it has remained customary to tap the gavel against a lectern or desk to indicate the opening and closing of proceedings, and it is also used to keep the meeting itself calm and orderly.\n\nIn Medieval England, the word \"gavel\" could refer to a tribute or rent payment made with something other than cash. These agreements were set in English land-court with the sound of a \"gavel\", a word which may come from the (meaning \"tribute\"). \"Gavel\" would be prefixed to any non-monetary payment given to a lord (for example: \"gavel-malt\") and can be found as a prefix to other terms such as \"gavelkind\", a system of partible inheritance formerly found in parts of the UK and Ireland. A \"gavel\" may also have referred to a kind of mason's tool, a setting maul that came into use as a way to maintain order in meetings.\n\nA gavel may be used in meetings of a deliberative assembly. According to \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\", the gavel may be used to signify a recess or an adjournment. It may also be used to signify when a member makes a slight breach of the rules.\n\n\"Demeter's Manual of Parliamentary Law and Procedure\" states that, in addition to an optional light tap after a vote, there are three other uses of a gavel:\nImproper uses include banging the gavel in an attempt to drown out a disorderly member. In this situation, the chair should give one vigorous tap at a time at intervals. Also, the chair should not lean on the gavel, juggle or toy with it, or use it to challenge or threaten or to emphasize remarks.\n\nThe chair should not be \"gaveling through\" a measure by cutting off members and quickly putting a question to a vote before any member can get the floor (in this connection, the chair should not use the gavel to improperly signify the end of consideration of a question). The expression \"passing the gavel\" signifies an orderly succession from one chair to another.\n\nIn addition to the use above during business meetings, organizations may use the gavel during their ceremonies and may specify the number of raps of the gavel corresponding to different actions.\n\nThe gavel is used in courts of law in the United States and, by metonymy, is used there to represent the entire judiciary system, especially of judgeship. On the other hand, in the Commonwealth of Nations, gavels have never been used by judges, despite many American-influenced TV programmes depicting them.\n\nThe unique gavel of the United States Senate has an hourglass shape and no handle. In 1954, the gavel broke that had been in use since at least 1834 (and possibly since 1789) when Vice President Richard Nixon used it during a heated debate on nuclear energy, despite silver plates that were added to strengthen it in 1952. The Senate was unable to attain a piece of ivory large enough to replace the gavel, so they appealed to the Indian embassy. Later that year, India's Vice President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan visited the Senate and presented a replica of the original gavel to Nixon. The replica is still in use as of 2018.\n\nThe gavel of the House of Representatives, by contrast, is plain wood with a handle and is used more often and more forcefully than in the Senate. It has been broken and replaced many times. In both houses, the gavel is generally sounded once to mark the opening of the session and the adjournment, and to punctuate announcements of decisions by the body. The gavel is often tapped repeatedly by the presiding officer to call the assembly to order or to restore order when cross-conversation has made it too noisy to proceed.\n\nIn 1955 Icelandic sculptor Ríkarður Jónsson carved the Icelandic birch gavel and striking board used at the United Nations.\n"}
{"id": "1816982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816982", "title": "Al Swearengen", "text": "Al Swearengen\n\nEllis Alfred Swearengen (July 8, 1845 – November 15, 1904) was an American pimp and entertainment entrepreneur who ran the Gem Theater, a notorious brothel, in Deadwood, South Dakota, for 22 years during the late 19th century.\n\nSwearengen (sometimes spelled \"Swearingen\", Swearengin, Swearngir, etc.) and his twin brother, Lemuel, were the eldest two of eight children of Dutch American farmer Daniel J. Swearingen (1817–1886) and Keziah \"Katie\" Montgomery (1818–1879) of Oskaloosa, Iowa. Swearengen remained at home well into his adult years and only arrived in Deadwood in May 1876, with his wife, Nettie Swearengen. Nettie later divorced him on the grounds of spousal abuse. Swearengen married two more times; both subsequent marriages also ended in divorce.\n\nSwearengen originally owned and operated a canvas-and-lumber saloon in Deadwood known as the Cricket, which featured gambling and hosted prizefights. Shortly afterward, he closed it down and opened a larger saloon known as the Gem Theater.\n\nThe Gem functioned as a saloon, dance hall, and brothel. Swearengen lured desperate young women to Deadwood, then forced them into prostitution through a combination of bullying and physical brutality committed by him and his henchmen. Calamity Jane, who was one of his first dancers at the Gem, procured 10 girls from Sidney, Nebraska for him on one occasion.\n\nThe results were highly lucrative: the Gem earned a nightly average of $5,000, and sometimes as much as $10,000 (). The Gem burned down on September 26, 1879, along with much of the town, but Swearengen rebuilt his establishment larger and more opulent than ever, to great public acclaim.\n\nSwearengen's talent for making canny alliances and financial payoffs kept him insulated from the general drive to clean up Deadwood, including the otherwise successful work of Seth Bullock, the town's first sheriff. \n\nIn 1899, the Gem burned down once again and was not rebuilt. The same year, Swearengen left Deadwood and married Odelia Turgeon.\n\nIt is often reported that Swearengen died penniless while trying to hop a freight train, but research suggests he was murdered. According to his rediscovered obituary and contemporaneous newspaper accounts, Swearengen was found dead in the middle of a suburban Denver street on November 15, 1904, apparently of a massive head wound. Less than two months earlier, his twin brother Lemuel had been shot by unknown assailants and survived, although suspiciously not robbed.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006, the HBO television series \"Deadwood\" depicted Swearengen as a powerful and influential figure in the early history of the town, ruthlessly murderous and abusive, but ultimately guiding it towards its development and annexation to the Dakota Territory once he comes to see this course as fitting his best interests. The series altered Swearengen to be English-born. The English actor Ian McShane, won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Television Drama in 2005 for his portrayal of Swearengen. He was also nominated that year for Emmy and Screen Actors Guild Awards, and \"TV Guide\" named him #6 in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time. The series also altered timelines; it shows the Gem (historically opened in April 1877) as a going concern during the famous events of August 1876. \n\nMcShane reprised his role of Swearengen in \"\" (2019), which takes place in 1889, ten years after the series ended, and abandons any linkage to history. This time we see a much different Swearengen who has made peace with many from his past and is seen now as more of a community leader. Time has taken its toll on Swearengen, and throughout the film he is in declining health ending with his implied imminent death due to complications of liver failure. He leaves the Gem to his former prostitute Trixie (a character played by Paula Malcomson, created for the series and not based on any one real life person). This is in contrast to the historical Swearengen's murder 15 years later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1816988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816988", "title": "Shikoku (dog)", "text": "Shikoku (dog)\n\nThe is a Japanese breed of dog from Shikoku island that is similar to a Shiba Inu. The Shikoku was recently added as recognized breed of the American Kennel Club as an AKC FSS (Foundation Stock Service) standard, it is recognized by the Japan Kennel Club, an organization recognized by AKC as an official foreign registry (AKC recognizes the Shiba Inu, however). The Shikoku is also in the Canadian Kennel Club Hound group and the United Kennel Club, awaiting full recognition. In 1937 the Japanese Crown recognized the Shikoku dog as a living \"natural monument\" of Japan.\n\nThe Shikoku is one of the six native Japanese breeds, it is intermediate in size between the large Akita Inu and the small Shiba Inu; all are within the Spitz family of dogs. The Shikoku was bred mainly for hunting deer and boar in the mountainous districts of Kochi Prefecture. It is sometimes called \"Kochi-ken\" and, along with the Kishu dog, referred to as a boar hound.\n\nA study of the 1930s carried out by the Japanese cynologist Haruo Isogai classified all native Japanese dog breeds into three categories: large-, medium-, and small-sized. The Shikoku belongs to the Shika-inus, the medium-sized dogs. Other medium-sized dogs are the Kai Ken, the Ainu Ken and the Kishu Inu. They are all very similar with overlapping colors and only minor differences in size and morphology.\n\nIt also served as the partial ancestor to the Tosa after it was crossed with European breeds such as the Great Dane, Old English Bulldog, English Mastiff, St. Bernard (dog) and others.\n\nIt is cautious and brave with good judgment. It is also loyal to its master. It has sharper features than most Japanese dogs and is sometimes allowed to chase wild boar so it will maintain its nature.\n\nShikoku dogs are tough and sufficiently agile to run through a mountainous region. They are the ideal companion for active outdoor people. They are very energetic and active outside but they are calm and quiet indoors. The Shikoku is a very intelligent dog and a quick learner. They are not as stubborn and independent as the other native Japanese breeds, but still it is not a dog for every person.\n\nThe Shikoku stands 17–21 inches (43–53 cm) high and comes in sesame (red, black), black and tan (nonstandard color), or cream (nonstandard color). These colors consist usually of a light brown, a light red-brown, or a light black-brown. In addition, there is a cream colored coat that tends to be very rare. In all of these colors there is usually a mixture of white found around the underside of the body, near the eyes, snout, and legs. The Shikoku tends to shed its coat at least one to two times a year. The dog has a fairly thick coat with pointed ears and a curved tail. The body conformation is typically of the spitz-type: the square body, the wedge-shaped head, the prick triangular ears, and feathered curled tail.\n\nThe Shikoku dog is somewhat unusual in its appearance. It looks similar to a Siberian Husky dog physically, but differs in its size and color. The Shikoku Inu ranges from thirty to fifty-five pounds (male; approximately 20 inches tall; female; approximately 18.5 inches tall). This dog would be considered medium-sized.\n\nThree varieties of this breed have been identified: the Awa, the Hongawa, and the Hata all named after the area where they were bred on the island of Shikoku. The Hongawa breeding area being the most remote and least accessible, the dogs of the Hongawa line maintained the highest degree of purity and was considered the best type.\n\n"}
{"id": "1816991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816991", "title": "Henry Harpur-Crewe", "text": "Henry Harpur-Crewe\n\nHenry Harpur-Crewe (1828–1883) was an English clergyman and naturalist. He was rector of Breadsall and then Drayton Beauchamp from 1860 until his death.\n\nHenry Robert Harpur-Crewe was the nephew of Sir George Crewe bt. of Calke. He obtained a BA degree from Canterbury in 1851. In 1857 he was the rector of Breadsall in Derbyshire, a small village which also included the naturalists Joseph Whittaker and Francis Darwin.\n\nHe was interested in natural history from an early age, contributing observations to \"The Zoologist\". His main interest was in entomology, particularly pug moths (\"Eupithecia\"). He was also a good botanist and a keen horticulturist (especially crocuses).\n\nOne of his partners in botany was Joseph Whittaker of Breadsall and Morley who had practised botany in South Australia. In 1846 Harpur-Crewe and Whittaker reported on the earlier local extinction from Derbyshire of the lady's slipper orchid \"Cypripedium calceolus\". Whittaker's plant collecting activities began to decline around 1863 at about the time Crewe moved away to take up the position of rector in the parish of Drayton Beauchamp in Buckinghamshire. In 1864 they cooperated in the production of a manuscript list of the principal flowering plants and ferns of Derbyshire. His productive partnership with Crewe lasted for at least eighteen years.\n\nIn 1877 Harpur-Crewe reported on a visit he made to Tresco in the Scilly Isles where he commented on the insects which was where \"all the plants of Australia, the Cape, New Zealand, &c., flourish with almost native luxuriance.\n\nHarpur-Crewe's plant collection are in the Natural History Museum whilst his letters are at Kew Gardens. The Wisbech and Fenland Museum also has a small collection of Crewe's plants. A miniature yellow double leafed wallflower \"Erysimum cheiri\" was rediscovered by Harpur-Crewe and is now named \"Harpur Crewe\".\n"}
{"id": "1816993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816993", "title": "The Chase (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Chase (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Chase is the eighth serial of the second season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in six weekly parts from 22 May to 26 June 1965.\n\nSet on multiple planets, including Aridius, Earth, and Mechanus, in multiple time periods, the serial features the Dalek race travelling through time while pursuing the time machine the TARDIS and its occupants the First Doctor (William Hartnell), Ian Chesterton (William Russell), Barbara Wright (Jacqueline Hill), and Vicki (Maureen O'Brien) so that the Daleks can take the TARDIS for themselves.\n\nThe serial marks the last appearance of Russell and Hill as companions Ian and Barbara and the introduction of Peter Purves as new companion Steven Taylor.\n\nIn the TARDIS, the First Doctor, Ian, Barbara and Vicki are huddling around the Time-Space Visualiser, a television-like souvenir from their recent adventure at the Space Museum, which can pick up on any past event in the whole of time and space. The TARDIS then lands. Ian and Vicki leave to explore the desert wilderness. They find an ancient trap door in the sand. Inside, they are trapped — and become hunted by hostile tentacle creatures called Mire Beasts.\n\nThe Doctor and Barbara see on the 'Visualiser' a \"broadcast\" of the Daleks preparing to give a report. The Daleks' plan to follow \"the enemy time machine\" (the TARDIS) to the Sagarro Desert on the planet Aridius. The Daleks plan to take the TARDIS and exterminate the Doctor and his companions. The Doctor and Barbara watch the Incursion Squad embark and dematerialise. The Doctor immediately realises that these events happened in the past — the Daleks may already be here. They must find Ian and Vicki and leave immediately.\n\nAfter a sandstormy night the Doctor and Barbara see the Daleks emerging from the sands. The Daleks cannot find the time travellers, but they locate the TARDIS under the sand and begin to have it dug out by a group of native Aridians, whom they have enslaved. The slave force is exterminated when they are of no further value. The Doctor and Barbara are saved by other amphibious humanoid Aridians. The Aridians also find Vicki and Ian, who were injured when a wall collapsed in an explosion used to kill the Mire Beasts that were threatening them. The Mire Beasts reappear, killing the Aridian Malsan who was holding the party prisoner in preparation for the handover. The Doctor and his friends flee in the confusion, evading a Dalek scout, and get back to the TARDIS.\n\nThere now follows a chase through time and space, with the Dalek vessel determined to track down and exterminate the Doctor and his friends. The Daleks are fifteen minutes behind and the gap is closing. The first stop is the top of the Empire State Building in New York City in 1966. The Doctor then reaches the Atlantic Ocean and boards the sailing ship \"Mary Celeste\". The crew ventures outside and are mistaken for stowaways. They sneak away in the TARDIS as the crew searches for them. Soon the Daleks arrive and the frightened crew abandons ship, all jumping overboard. The next point of landing is a mysterious old house where both Dracula and Frankenstein's monster have come alive. These terrors stalk the building but also attack the Incursion Squad when they arrive. In the confusion, the Doctor, Ian and Barbara leave Vicki behind, never realising they have simply been visiting a futuristic theme attraction called the Festival of Ghana, in 1996. The Daleks are repelled back into their vessel by the monsters (who are in fact robots), and Vicki stows away aboard the Dalek ship. She travels in it to the jungle world of Mechanus, where the TARDIS has already landed.\n\nOn the Dalek ship, Vicki witnesses the Daleks' Replicator machine in action: an android replica of the Doctor is produced and is programmed to kill the original Doctor and his companions. When the Dalek ship arrives on Mechanus, the robot killer is dispatched. The jungle is hostile, with large fungoid plants, which attack humans and only retreat when exposed to light. After a while the four travellers are reunited but the robot Doctor also appears. Both Doctors claim to be real one and a fight ensues between Ian and the real Doctor. The robot Doctor mistakenly calls Vicki by the name of Susan. Barbara realises the mistake and yells at Ian that this is the robot. The real Doctor disables it with his stick.\n\nThe next morning, the Doctor notices that there is a vast metal city over the jungle, and they all decide to venture into the structure. Within moments, robot Mechonoids arrive and capture them, taking them to the city. There they are locked in a cage-like room with a dishevelled man named Steven Taylor, an astronaut from Earth who crash-landed on the planet two years earlier and has been kept as a prisoner by the Mechonoids since then. The Daleks now attack the city. The Doctor and his party and Steven escape down some cables, while the Mechonoids and Daleks become involved in a pitched battle which devastates both sides as well as the building. The four companions flee to safety but are separated from Steven, whom they presume to have been killed.\n\nThey find the deserted Dalek time machine and persuade the Doctor to show Ian how to operate it. After a tearful farewell, Ian and Barbara return to their own planet at last — and almost to their own time, being two years out in London of 1965. The machine is destroyed using the auto-destruct mechanism once Barbara and Ian are out of it.\n\nWhen Ian asks to use Barbara's cardigan in Episode 2, she sighs and says, \"Not again.\" The companions had unravelled another of her cardigans in \"The Space Museum\".\n\nTerry Nation's original title for this story was \"The Pursuers\". There were several changes made from his original proposal in the finished serial. In the original storyline, the TARDIS crew would witness on the visualiser Shakespeare discussing with his wife the possibility of allowing Francis Bacon to use his name on Bacon's plays, as well as a speech by Winston Churchill; Ian and Vicki would see through the sands the vast underground Aridian city; and Ian and Barbara would not return home to Earth at the end of the serial.\n\nSome of the Daleks appearing in this serial were created by Shawcraft Models for the \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\" film in 1965. Although the plan had been to refurbish them to resemble the television Daleks, this proved to be impractical, and the three hired Daleks were used only in the background of shots. As \"The Chase\" was broadcast before the movie was released, this marks the first appearance of the movie Daleks.\n\nThe shots of Ian and Barbara on Earth in the final episode were made during shooting for the next story, \"The Time Meddler\", and were directed by that serial's director, Douglas Camfield.\n\nHugh Walters later played Runcible in \"The Deadly Assassin\" (1976) and Vogel in \"Revelation of the Daleks\" (1985). He also played Roderick Allingham in the audio play \"The Fearmonger\". Dennis Chinnery later played Gharman in \"Genesis of the Daleks\" (1975) and Sylvest in \"The Twin Dilemma\" (1984). Roger Hammond later played Dr. Runciman in \"Mawdryn Undead\" (1983) and Harold Withers in the audio play \"The Eternal Summer\".\n\nMorton Dill, the young man from Alabama whom the travellers meet at the top of the Empire State Building, was played by Peter Purves, who would appear in the last episode as Steven Taylor. Earlier drafts of the story used the names \"Bruck\" and \"Michael\" for the character of the captured astronaut, before settling on \"Steven\". The story also features the Beatles in a film clip. It was originally planned for the band to appear as themselves, but under heavy \"ageing\" make-up, to represent themselves in the future. However their manager, Brian Epstein, objected to them appearing on the programme. Thus, footage from the BBC chart show \"Top of the Pops\" of the group performing \"Ticket to Ride\" was used instead. This had the unintended effect of making \"The Chase\" (specifically, the episode \"The Executioners\") the only remaining source of any surviving Beatles footage from \"Top of the Pops\", as the band's performances were one of many victims of the BBC's archive wipings.\n\nAccording to the BBC's Audience Research Report, contemporary reception of this serial was mostly positive. Though a significant minority found the \"haunted house\" action of the episode \"Journey into Terror\" ludicrous, most reported finding the episode very entertaining. The battle between the Daleks and Mechonoids in the final episode of the serial, \"The Planet of Decision\", was particularly well-received, \nwith viewers describing it as \"dramatic\" and \"full of adventure\".\n\nThis is one of the few Dalek stories to incorporate humour, and is the only story to attempt comical performances from the Daleks, including a Dalek coughing as it emerges from the sand on Aridius, a stammering Dalek who cannot do simple mental arithmetic, three Daleks using their eyestalks to nod in agreement, a Dalek shouting 'Yarrgh!' as it tumbles off the Mary Celeste, and a Dalek getting annoyed with its subordinate. In 2009, \"Radio Times\" reviewer Patrick Mulkern described \"The Chase\" as \"unashamedly childish and comic-strip in tone and pace\", finding that the various contents of the episode were a mixed bag. He praised the Daleks and the first, second, and sixth episodes, but felt middle episodes were mixed, with \"Journey into Terror\" particularly disappointing. Nick Setchfield of \"SFX\" was critical of the serial, finding it better than \"The Space Museum\" \"only because it's powered by a demented, ramshackle energy that never allows for boredom... or much in the way of logic or good taste\". He acknowledged the \"tacky entertainment\" but wrote that \"it's crushing to realise that this is the show that gave us the masterly 'An Unearthly Child' a mere two years before.\" Writing for \"Doctor Who Magazine\", Graham Kibble-White disagreed with Mulkern's opinion of the Daleks, believing that the comedy undermined them. He also wrote that the serial \"suffers from structural oddities\", as well as the unconvincing double Doctor. However, Kibble-White praised the Mechonoids and the TARDIS crew, feeling that Ian and Barbara's departure \"positively \"negates\" the preceding six episodes of tom-guffery\". Both the premise of \"Journey into Terror\" and the Doctor duplicate were listed in \"SFX\" \"Doctor Who's 25 Silliest Moments\".\n\n\"The Chase\" has received some positive reviews. DVD Talk's John Sinnott praised the serial, writing that the story's unusual structure was to its benefit. Jonathan Wilkins of \"Dreamwatch\" likened the serial to pop art and felt that \"only an utter grouch could dislike a \"Doctor Who\" story as zany and iconic as \"The Chase\"\". He highlighted the character work concerning Ian and Barbara and the \"sense of epic science fiction that is only slightly betrayed by the ever-present problems of budget\". In 2012, \"SFX\" Will Salmon listed the departure of Ian and Barbara as the eighth best companion departure.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by John Peel, was published by Target Books in July 1989. It was the first of several Dalek story novelisations Peel would write after Target came to an agreement with Terry Nation's agent.\n\nBecause many of the changes made to Nation's original proposal were for timing and budgetary reasons, rather than artistic ones, Peel restored most of Nation's original ideas in his novelisation.\n\nIn 1966, audio of the final episode was edited together with new narration (provided by David Graham) and released on a 33 r.p.m. vinyl album by Century 21 Records in the UK and by Astor Records in Australia.\n\nThis story was released alongside \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" in a special Dalek tin set titled \"The Daleks: Limited Edition Boxed Set\" on VHS in 1993 to celebrate the 30th anniversary of \"Doctor Who\". It was released in a DVD box set with \"The Space Museum\" on 1 March 2010. It is notable for having one shot regraded from \"day\" to \"night\" to match the surrounding footage by the Doctor Who Restoration Team. The Beatles' clip is not included in the Region 1 DVD. This serial was scheduled to be released as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files in Issue 138 on 16 April 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817003", "title": "Paul Bigsby", "text": "Paul Bigsby\n\nPaul Adelburt Bigsby (1899–1968) was an American inventor, designer, and pioneer of the solid body electric guitar. Bigsby is best known for having been the designer of the Bigsby vibrato tailpiece (also mislabeled as a tremolo arm) and proprietor of Bigsby Electric Guitars. He built an early steel guitar for Southern California steel guitarist Earl \"Joaquin\" Murphy of Spade Cooley's band, as well as Jack Rivers, then built a solid body electric guitar conceptualized by Merle Travis to have the same level of sustain as a steel guitar by anchoring the strings in the body instead of on a tailpiece. This instrument, which Bigsby completed in 1948, likely had an influence on the solid body Telecaster later produced by Leo Fender, as it had all six tuners in a row. Its headstock shape was later made famous by Fender's solid body Stratocaster model. Bigsby also made a doubleneck model for Nashville guitarist Grady Martin and an amplified mandolin for Texas Playboy Tiny Moore. Bigsby also built a pedal steel guitar for Speedy West that West used on many of Tennessee Ernie Ford's early recordings as well as records by Travis, Red Ingle, Jean Shepard, Johnny Horton, Ferlin Husky and Merrill Moore.\n\nBefore working in music he was a motorcycle racer known as \"P.A. Bigsby\", and was the foreman of Crocker Motorcycles, and designed many components, such as the overhead-valve cylinder head for their first V-twin motorcycle. The vibrato tailpiece unit, however, was what made Bigsby's reputation, as it was used by Gibson, Gretsch and other guitar companies. In 1966, Bigsby sold the company to former Gibson guitar executive Ted McCarty. On May 10, 1999, the Fred Gretsch company purchased the Bigsby company.\n"}
{"id": "1817004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817004", "title": "Southern cassowary", "text": "Southern cassowary\n\nThe southern cassowary (\"Casuarius casuarius\"), also known as double-wattled cassowary, Australian cassowary or two-wattled cassowary, is a large flightless black bird. It is one of the three living species of cassowary, alongside the dwarf cassowary and the northern cassowary. It is a ratite and therefore related to the emu, ostriches, rheas and kiwis.\n\nPresently, most authorities consider the southern cassowary monotypic, but several subspecies have been described. It has proven very difficult to confirm the validity of these due to individual variations, age-related variations, the relatively few available specimens (and the bright skin of the head and neck – the basis upon which several subspecies have been described – fades in specimens), and that locals are known to have traded live cassowaries for hundreds, if not thousands of years, some of which are likely to have escaped/been deliberately introduced to regions away from their origin.\n\nCassowaries are closely related to the kiwis, both families diverging from a common ancestor approximately 40 million years ago.\n\nThe binomial name \"Casuarius casuarius\" is derived from its Malay name \"kesuari\". The southern cassowary was first described by Carl Linnaeus, in his 18th-century work \"Systema Naturae\", as \"Struthio casuarius\", from a specimen from Seram, in 1758. It is now the type species of the genus \"Casuarius\".\n\nThe southern cassowary has been described under a large number of scientific names, all of which are now considered taxonomic synonyms for the species.\n\nThe southern cassowary has stiff, bristly black plumage, a blue face and long neck, red on the cape and two red wattles measuring around in length hanging down around its throat. A horn-like brown casque, measuring high, sits atop the head. The bill can range from . The three-toed feet are thick and powerful, equipped with a lethal dagger-like claw up to on the inner toe. The plumage is sexually monomorphic, but the female is dominant and larger with a longer casque, larger bill and brighter-coloured bare parts. The juveniles have brown longitudinal striped plumage. It is perhaps the largest member of the cassowary family and is tied as the second heaviest bird on earth, at a maximum size estimated at and tall. Normally, this species ranges from in length. The height is normally ; females average , while males average . The northern cassowary is about the same size on average and is perhaps very mildly less sexually dimorphic than the southern. Most adult birds will weigh between . It is technically the largest Asian bird (since the extinction of the Arabian ostrich) and the largest Australian bird (though the emu may be slightly taller).\nThe southern cassowary is distributed in Indonesia, New Guinea and northeastern Australia. It mainly inhabits tropical rainforests but may make use of nearby savannah forests or mangroves stands. The species prefers elevations below in Australia, and on New Guinea.\n\nIt forages on the forest floor for fallen fruit and is capable of safely digesting some fruits toxic to other animals. It also eats fungi, and some insects and small vertebrates. The southern cassowary is a solitary bird, which pairs only in breeding season, in late winter or spring. The male builds a nest on the ground, a mattress of herbaceous plant material thick and up to wide. This is thick enough to let moisture drain away from the eggs. The male also incubates the eggs and raises the chicks alone. A clutch of three or four eggs are laid measuring . They have a granulated surface and are initially bright pea-green in colour although they fade with age.\n\nCassowaries make a thunderous call during mating season and hissing and rumblings otherwise. Chicks will make frequent high-pitches whistles to call the male.\n\nThe cassowary may become aggressive and use its blade-like claws to kill humans or dogs when provoked.\n\nAlthough subject to ongoing habitat loss, limited range, and overhunting in some areas, the southern cassowary as of 2017 evaluated as Least concern on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The Australian population is listed as Endangered under Federal and Queensland State legislation. Some threats are habitat loss (logging), feral animals eating their eggs, hunting, and roadkill. Road building, feral animals and hunting are the worst of these threats. It has an occurrence range of , and between 10,000 and 20,000 birds were estimated in a 2002 study, with between 1,500 and 2,500 in Australia. Southern cassowaries have been bred in many zoos around the world, like at White Oak Conservation in Yulee, Florida, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817005", "title": "Thrill Jockey", "text": "Thrill Jockey\n\nThrill Jockey is an American independent record label established in 1992 in New York City by former Atlantic Records A&R representative Bettina Richards.\n\nRichards started the label with $35,000 of family and personal capital, while working at a Hoboken, New Jersey, record store, and ran it from her apartment in Manhattan.\n\nIn 1995, she moved the label to Chicago, Illinois, where \"rent and taxes are considerably cheaper.\"\n\nThrill Jockey offers full-length streaming of every song on every release in its catalog. \"I believe if people can listen to the albums, they tend to buy them,\" Richards said in a 2006 interview with \"Chicago Reader\".\n\nArtists who have recorded on the label include Double Dagger, Future Islands, Tortoise, The Sea and Cake, High Places, Trans Am, Mouse on Mars, ADULT., Nobukazu Takemura, Bobby Conn, Tom Verlaine, Freakwater, The Zincs, The National Trust, Eleventh Dream Day, Califone, Chicago Underground Duo, Howe Gelb/Giant Sand, Mary Lattimore, Oval, Town & Country, Archer Prewitt, Sam Prekop, The Lonesome Organist, OOIOO, Pit er Pat, The Fiery Furnaces, Angela Desveaux, Liturgy, Boredoms, Pontiak, and Golden Void amongst others. Artists on the label have often collaborated with other artists on the label to form spin-off groups.\n\nIn 2007, Thrill Jockey bands old and new recorded songs for a boxed set to celebrate the label's 15th birthday. Bands were asked to choose a song to cover by any other act on their roster. \"Plum 7\" Box Set\" compilation was released in December 2007 on ten 7-inch vinyl singles. \n\nSome notable tracks include: Directions covering Tortoise guitarist Jeff Parker's \"Toy Boat,\" while Pullman tackles the Chicago Underground Quartet's \"3 A.M.\" Bobby Conn, Califone and Thalia Zedek all cover Freakwater songs, while the Sea & Cake reworks a version of Califone's \"Spider's House.\" Tortoise covers Japanese artist Nobukazu Takemura's \"Falls Lake,\" and ex-Talking Heads frontman David Byrne contributes a cover of the Fiery Furnaces' \"Ex-Guru.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1817019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817019", "title": "Steam Whistle Brewing", "text": "Steam Whistle Brewing\n\nSteam Whistle Brewing is an independent brewery in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was founded in 2000 by three former employees of Upper Canada Brewing Company after that company was bought out. The company produces a pilsner lager, and launched a pale ale in 2019.\n\nThe brewery occupies Bays 1–14 in the John Street Roundhouse building at Roundhouse Park. Built in 1929, it was previously the home of a Canadian Pacific Railway steam locomotive repair facility and operated as such until May 13, 1988. The John Street Roundhouse is designated a National Historic Site and is owned by the City of Toronto.\n\nThe company operates the annual Steam Whistle's Roundhouse Winter Craft Beer Festival (RHCBF).\n\nSteam Whistle has won several awards, including Canada's Best Managed Companies. In 2004, Steam Whistle Pilsner was voted best beer in the Greater Toronto Area at the Golden Tap Awards. Awards for product quality include a Silver for Steam Whistle Pilsner in the 2016 Ontario Brewing Awards, and a Gold medal at the 2012 Canadian Brewing Awards for their Steam Whistle Pilsner.\n"}
{"id": "1817020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817020", "title": "Joe Sharkey", "text": "Joe Sharkey\n\nJoe Sharkey is an American author and former columnist for \"The New York Times.\" His columns focused mostly on business travel, while his non-fiction books focus on criminality. Sharkey also co-authored a novel. He has been the Assistant National Editor for \"The Wall Street Journal\", the City Editor for the \"Albany Times-Union\", and a columnist for \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\". Formally residing in the New York area, he and his wife live in Tucson, Arizona.\n\nSharkey's 1994 book \"Bedlam: Greed, Profiteering, and Fraud in a Mental Health System Gone Crazy\" is an investigation of the psychiatric industry. Focusing on sensational cases in the United States, Sharkey exposed how powerful elements within the industry maneuvered to exploit new markets when health insurance providers began covering costs for in-hospital mental health treatment. He traced soaring mental health costs to the often criminal marketing practices of biological psychiatry, which Sharkey asserted began when the number of psychiatric hospitals boomed in the late 1980s. He provided anecdotal tales of people coerced into treatment on fabricated pretenses, and compared schemes to fill beds at for-profit mental and addiction facilities, which were offering bounties to clergy, teachers, police and \"crisis counselors,\" to the business plan of the Holiday Inn hotel chain.\n\nThe psychiatric industry, warned Sharkey, whose late father-in-law was a respected psychiatrist involved in setting up non-profit mental health clinics during the 1980s in New York state, has been lobbying legislatures for an increasing share of government health spending. Despite such warnings by Sharkey and mental health watchdogs, similar practices have continued to evolve in Texas (where many of the events depicted in \"Bedlam\" took place), in the form of the Texas Medication Algorithm Project, and at the federal level with the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health.\n\nAnother of Sharkey's books is \"Above Suspicion\", the story of FBI agent Mark Putnam, who murdered his mistress in an eastern Kentucky mining town. In \"Suspicion\", Sharkey implicitly condemned the FBI for encouraging the use of paid informants. A movie adaptation of Above Suspicion starring Emilia Clarke and Jack Huston and directed by Phillip Noyce, was released in 2019. His book \"Deadly Greed,\" which has been optioned for a feature film, explored the sensational 1989 Boston killing, in which Charles Stuart fatally shot his pregnant wife Carol and caused racial tensions by accusing a black man of the crime.\n\nSharkey has also co-authored a novel, \"Lady Gold,\" with former New York Police Department detective Angela Amato. The movie rights for the book were purchased by Paramount Pictures and was in development by Mel Gibson's production company, Icon.\n\nJoe Sharkey was one of seven people aboard an Embraer Legacy business jet that collided in mid-air with a Gol Airlines Boeing 737 over Brazil, on September 29, 2006. The business jet, despite sustaining damage to its wing and tail, managed to land safely at Cachimbo military airport, while the Boeing crashed to the ground, killing all 154 people on board. The Legacy jet was owned and operated by ExcelAire, a charter company headquartered in Ronkonkoma, New York, and was on its delivery flight from Embraer's factory in São José dos Campos, near São Paulo, to the United States. Sharkey was on a freelance assignment in Brazil for \"Business Jet Traveler\", a magazine specialized in corporate aviation. In a \"New York Times\" front-page article titled \"Colliding With Death at 37,000 Feet, and Living\", published October 3, 2006, Sharkey reported:\nAnd it had been a nice ride. Minutes before we were hit, I had wandered up to the cockpit to chat with the pilots, who said the plane was flying beautifully. I saw the readout that showed our altitude: 37,000 feet. I returned to my seat. Minutes later came the strike (it sheared off part of the plane’s tail, too, we later learned).\n\nDuring an interview with NBC's \"Today Show\" on October 5, 2006, Sharkey said he was relaxing in his cabin seat with the window shade down when he was jolted by a bang. \"It was more like a car that hits a pothole rather than 'boom!'\" he said. The plane steadied itself and it became serenely silent again. It was only when Sharkey opened the shade and looked out his window that he noticed something was dreadfully amiss. \"My heart just sank because I looked at the wing tip and I saw that it was shorn off,” he told \"Today\" host Matt Lauer. \"Basically four feet of the wingtip, the part that curves up, the winglet, gone... I’ve flown a lot, and I’m thinking, 'This is definitely, definitely not good.'\"\n\nThe pilots, Joseph Lepore and Jan Paladino, were composed and focused, like \"infantrymen who were well trained.\" Still, Sharkey and the other passengers, despite an uneasy calm, grew concerned. \"It was very serene,\" Sharkey said. \"At first it was just quiet and grimly concern.\" An engineer on board noticed the damaged wing was starting to peel, and Sharkey said it was then that everyone on board started to think about dying. \"That’s the point in which it was clear that one way or another we were going down in unpleasant circumstances, and probably, since we couldn’t find a runway, we were going to ditch.\"\n\nSharkey scribbled a quick note to his wife, \"I expressed my love, my appreciation and the fact that I accepted death.\" He put the note in his wallet, thinking it might eventually be found. \"And then I thought… it was almost bizarre … Is this going to hurt? And how badly is it going to hurt?\" The pilots eventually spotted a remote military airstrip and safely put the plane down. Sharkey said that when he found out, several hours later, that the Legacy jet hit a commercial airliner, he thought, \"We should not be the ones walking away from this.\" Asked, at the end of the interview, about the pilots who saved his life, he said, \"I think we need to be careful about how the evidence is evaluated, because I think these guys are in some peril.\"\n\nOn his blog, “Joe Sharkey at Large”, Sharkey wrote about his experience and of being held for 36 hours for interrogation after the forced landing, his views on the ongoing investigation, and the public response against him and others aboard the Legacy jet. In response to Sharkey's questioning of Brazil's air traffic control infrastructure, Waldir Pires, the Brazilian Defense Minister stated:\n\n\"I cannot anticipate testimony that may be given, for example, by this [Joe Sharkey] in the United States. It is evident, it seems to me that his personality is a little frivolous, because with the number [of accidents] we have and the statements he makes, it [Sharkey's statement] is something absolutely inadequate.\"\n\nPires was later fired for his handling of the 2006–2007 Brazilian aviation crisis.\n\nIn 2008, Sharkey was sued before a Brazilian court for an article in \"The New York Times\". The widow of one of the victims claimed the article (in which Sharkey blamed the crash on incapable air operators) defamed the Brazilian people and consequently her personal dignity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817022", "title": "Evol (Sonic Youth album)", "text": "Evol (Sonic Youth album)\n\nEVOL is the third studio album by the American alternative rock band Sonic Youth. It was released in May 1986 by SST Records, the band's first release on the label. The album is notable for being the first with a new drummer, Steve Shelley, replacing Bob Bert, and for showing signs of the band's transition from their no wave past toward a greater pop sensibility.\n\nDespite not being successful at the time, the album has received retrospective praise. Pitchfork said that \"EVOL\" \"[was] where the seeds of greatness were sown\", and placed the album 31st on their Top 100 Albums of the 1980s list, alongside Sonic Youth's next two albums, \"Sister\" and \"Daydream Nation\", which ranked 14th and first, respectively.\n\nIn June 1985, during the \"Bad Moon Rising\" tour, Bert left the band and was replaced by Shelley. The new lineup quickly began working on new material for their third album. The band signed to SST as, by 1986, label founder Greg Ginn was anxious for the label to move away from its American hardcore roots. Sonic Youth took a break from the tour and finished the writing for \"EVOL\". In March 1986, the band recorded the album at BC Studio with New York recording icon Martin Bisi. \"EVOL\" was the second time that the band had worked with New York singer and performance artist Lydia Lunch. Lunch had shared vocals on \"Bad Moon Rising\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"Death Valley '69\", and on this record, she co-wrote the song \"Marilyn Moore\".\n\nMike Watt played bass guitar on the tracks \"In the Kingdom #19\" and the band's cover of \"Bubblegum\". The band encouraged him to play on the former track shortly after Watt's fellow Minutemen band member D. Boon died in a car crash. Coincidentally, the song is also about a car crash. Watt had entered a severe depression following Boon's death and was considering leaving his career in music behind. He credited the time he spent with the members of Sonic Youth during the recording of \"EVOL\" as a major factor in his decision to re-enter the music world. Watt's next band, Firehose, would support Sonic Youth on their Flaming Telepaths tour. During this time, the band began the Ciccone Youth project, which featured all members of Sonic Youth and Watt. They released a single consisting of three tracks: \"Into the Groove(y)\" (a cover of Madonna's hit \"Into the Groove\", incorporating snippets of her recording) and the short \"Tuff Titty Rap\" on the A-side (both performed by the Sonic Youth members), and \"Burnin' Up\" (performed by Watt with additional guitars by Ginn) on the B-side. The project resulted in 1988's \"The Whitey Album\".\n\nOn the vinyl version of the album, the time length for \"Expressway to Yr. Skull\" was indicated by the infinity symbol (∞); the final moment of the song featured a locked groove that repeatedly plays the last few seconds of a song, making it theoretically endless. The CD version added a bonus track: the band's cover of the Kim Fowley tune \"Bubblegum\". According to Watt, he and Shelley played the basic rhythm track over the actual Fowley record, which was afterwards removed when the other members added their parts.\n\nThe album cover features a picture of model/actress Lung Leg, a still taken from \"Submit to Me\". Leg had previously appeared in the \"Death Valley '69\" music video. The back cover shows a black-and-white picture of the band in a heart-shaped frame. The album's 10 songs are listed in a different order than the actual track listing. The members' names are listed on the back cover as well, although no instruments are assigned for them. It reads \"guitars, vocals, drums\", with \"bass\" hidden beneath the photograph of the band. The insert features the lyrics to the songs and the A-side depicts Thurston Moore, with eyes drawn on his hands, holding them up to his face. This photograph was later used for the cover of the \"Starpower\" single. The other side contains pictures from horror movies \"Friday the 13th Part 2\" and \"Children of the Corn\", with a blacked-out image of two ladies in the upper right corner.\n\nSonic Youth debuted the new material for \"EVOL\" on April 12, 1986 in Austin, Texas; a recording of that show was later released in 1992 as \"Live at the Continental Club\". \"EVOL\" was released in May 1986 by SST on vinyl and cassette. The band toured Europe in May and June, performing tracks from the album (although \"In the Kingdom #19\" and \"Bubblegum\" were never played live). The band also debuted \"White Kross\", which was later featured on \"Sister\". Following the European tour, they toured America in June and July. In July, the band released the only single from \"EVOL\", \"Starpower\". It was backed by \"Bubblegum\" and an edited version of \"Expressway to Yr. Skull\". A video was never released for \"Starpower\". However, a video for \"Shadow of a Doubt\" was released, directed by Kevin Kerslake and featuring Gordon sitting on a train. After the tour, the band recorded the \"Made in USA\" soundtrack, but it was not released until 1995. \"EVOL\" was released on CD in late 1986.\n\n\"EVOL\" has been well received by critics. Robert Christgau, with whom the band had sparred in previous years, gave the album a B+. It ranked number 4 among the \"Albums of the Year\" by \"NME\". \"Slant Magazine\", who placed \"EVOL\" at number 82 on their Best Albums of the 1980s list, described it as \"one of [Sonic Youth's] strangest albums\" and \"a difficult album that's nonetheless one of the best latter-day invocations of no wave chaos.\" \"Pitchfork\" described the album as \"the true departure point of Sonic Youth's musical evolution – in measured increments, Thurston Moore and Lee Ranaldo began to bring form to the formless, tune to the tuneless, and with the help of Steve Shelley's drums, they imposed melody and composition on their trademark dissonance.\" Pitchfork went on to say that \"EVOL\" \"[was] where the seeds of greatness were sown\", and placed it 31st on their list of the Top 100 Albums of the 1980s. \"Trouser Press\" labeled it \"a near-masterpiece\", and Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic gave it a 4.5-star review, writing that \"EVOL\" is \"a stunningly fluent mixture of avant-garde instrumentation and subversions of rock & roll.\"\n\nSonic Youth\n\nGuest musicians\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "1817023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817023", "title": "Portuguese Seventh-day Adventist Church (Toronto)", "text": "Portuguese Seventh-day Adventist Church (Toronto)\n\nThe Portuguese Seventh-day Adventist Church is a Seventh-day Adventist church serving the Portuguese community of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The congregation is currently meeting every Saturday at the High Park Korean United Church building located at 260 High Park Ave.\n\nThe Portuguese Seventh-day Adventist congregation was located on College St. just west of Bathurst St from 1970 to 2007. The former location was originally built as College Street Baptist Church in 1889. In 1970 the church was sold to the Portuguese Seventh-day Adventist congregation, the area having become the centre of Toronto's Portuguese community. In 2007, the building was sold to developer Matthew Kosoy who turned this College Street landmark into four large multi-level luxury freehold homes. The church building was restored to its Romanesque Revival style.\nIn January 2013, the congregation relocated to 280 Carlingview Dr, Toronto, Toronto, ON M9W 5G1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817029", "title": "Krypto the Superdog", "text": "Krypto the Superdog\n\nKrypto the Superdog is an American animated television series produced by Warner Bros. Animation, based on the DC Comics character Krypto. The show premiered on Cartoon Network on March 25, 2005, and aired on Kids' WB in September 2006. It would usually air after the \"Tickle-U\" block.\n\nA comic book series (based on the TV show) was published by DC Comics under the Johnny DC imprint, which lasted 6 issues, from 2006 to 2007. The show was designed primarily for young children.\n\nThe show was developed by producers Alan Burnett and Paul Dini, who had produced the successful \"\" and \"\". Instead of continuing in that style, \"Krypto\" was produced in a manner reminiscent of the Hanna-Barbera shows of the 1960s to the 1980s, from the sound effects down to the animation style (veteran Hanna-Barbera designer Iwao Takamoto served as a creative consultant). The series is rated TV-Y.\n\nAs the planet Krypton is about to be destroyed, Superman's father Jor-El makes a ship and puts a white puppy named Krypto into it for a test flight to see if it is safe enough for interstellar travel. While aboard the ship, Krypto accidentally destroys several wires and causes the ship to put him into a deep sleep while it heads on to Earth.\n\nUpon landing on Earth, Krypto is a fully grown dog, possessed of superpowers similar to those of Superman's (since all Kryptonian life-forms gain superpowers from exposure to a yellow sun, such as Earth's sun). Later, Krypto is adopted by Kevin Whitney, a 9-year-old boy, with whom Superman arranges for him to stay (as Superman himself is often too busy saving the world to take care of him). Krypto poses as an ordinary dog while living with Kevin's family, but adopts the secret identity of Krypto the Superdog for his superheroic deeds; Kevin is aware of Krypto's dual identity, but the rest of Kevin's family is not (excluding Kevin's spoiled cousin Bailey, however accidental). Kevin lives next door to Andrea, a girl who takes care of Streaky.\n\nIn the series, the various animals, including Krypto, all are capable of speaking to each other, but not to humans, except for Kevin and later Andrea (they are able to communicate with Krypto and the other animals thanks to a universal translator that they wear, known as an intergalactic communicator). The viewers can understand them, though, especially when Krypto and Streaky talk to the camera.\n\nWith his allies Streaky the Supercat, Ace the Bat-Hound, and Stretch-O-Mutt, Krypto fights the plots of Lex Luthor's pet iguana Ignatius, Joker's pet hyenas Bud and Lou, Penguin's trained birds called the Bad News Birds, and Catwoman's cat Isis. When working with a group of alien dog superheroes called the Dog Star Patrol, Krypto faces off against the evil Mechanikat and his agents Snooky Wookums and Delilah.\n\n\n\n\nOn December 15, 2006, the series ended. Reruns were shown on Kids' WB as part of the then-new CW network's E/I requirement, but stopped airing due to Kids' WB opting to use Cookie Jar Entertainment shows \"Will & Dewitt\" and \"Magi-Nation\". \"Krypto\" was aired on Boomerang from February 5, 2007 to January 3, 2014. The two-part holiday special, \"Iguanukkah\", aired on Cartoon Network, December 21, 2008 (as well as Christmas Eve and Christmas Day), as part of the all-day holiday specials marathon. It was shown on Boomerang.\nOverseas, the show currently airs on Boomerang in Australia and on France 3 (as part of Ludo) in France. The show began airing on Boomerang Latin America in 2014. In the UK & Ireland, the series upon starting aired on the CBBC Channel and for a short time on CBeebies, before later moving to Cartoonito. However, as of November 2017, it appears to be no longer broadcast on that channel. Since September 2018, It starting airing reruns on Tooncast in Latin America.\n\nWarner Home Video released two DVD volumes of the series in 2006, each compilation featured a few episodes from the first season.\n"}
{"id": "1817031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817031", "title": "Destiny (The Jacksons album)", "text": "Destiny (The Jacksons album)\n\nDestiny is the thirteenth studio album released by American band the Jacksons recorded at Dawnbreaker Studios – San Fernando, California. It was released in 1978 on Epic Records. The album would eventually sell over four million copies worldwide, two million in America during its initial run and another two million worldwide. The album marked the first time in the band's career in which they had complete artistic control, and was also the first album produced by the brothers.\n\nThe band had left their longtime label Motown in 1975 with the exception of brother Jermaine Jackson who had stayed with Motown after he married Berry Gordy's daughter, Hazel Gordy. After a couple of years of being with Philly International, the Jacksons set their sights on one of Columbia Records' most popular labels, Epic. After having their previous albums spearheaded by legendary producers Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff, Epic allowed the Jackson brothers to write and produce their own material for the first time in their career, something that Motown did not permit. Composing much of the album in their home-made recording studio in their gated Hayvenhurst mansion, the group finished recording the album within two months. \n\nThis album was the first album to include songs written by the Jackson themselves. Every song was credited to the Jacksons as a band or individually to Michael and Randy, with the exception of the lead single, \"Blame It on the Boogie.\" That song was written (somewhat confusingly) by a British singer-songwriter named Michael \"Mick\" Jackson, who was no relation to the members of the Jacksons. \n\nLike many of the acts that had left Motown, the Jacksons had to accept the possibility that they would no longer enjoy the same level of success they had while they were associated with the label—something Motown themselves reiterated upon hearing that longtime front man Michael Jackson had moved on to a full-fledged solo career following \"Destiny\"'s release.\n\nReleased on December 17, 1978, \"Destiny\" re-established them as a top-selling group. The single, \"Blame It on the Boogie\", was released in October 1978 (UK No. 8) as the advance single from the album. Although \"Blame It on the Boogie\" returned the Jacksons to the Hot 100 it was not the single to affect a major comeback for the Jacksons peaking at No. 54; However, \"Blame It on the Boogie\" did reach No. 3 R&B and would be coupled with \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\" on an extended club play single which would reach No. 20 on the dance charts in 1979.\n\nThe album's success was largely based on the second single released from the album, \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\", which became a Top 10 single in the spring of 1979. The album eventually peaked at number eleven on the \"Billboard\" Pop Albums chart and number three on the \"Billboard\" Black Albums chart and went on to Platinum status-cementing it as the first RIAA-certified platinum seller by the Jacksons as most of their Motown recordings were uncertifiable despite their huge success on the charts, and over two million copies worldwide. The accompanying tour was a huge success running on many legs and also toured overseas.\n\nThe album's artwork, painted by Gary Meyer, has Jackie, Tito, Michael, Randy and Marlon on top of the word \"DESTINY\" (the album's title) carved in stone during a thunderstorm containing a whirlwind and stormy waters splashing against the \"DESTINY\" monolith. A peacock is shown on the back cover fanning his tail and has a message provided by Michael and Jackie for Peacock Productions: \"Through the ages, the peacock has been honored and praised for its attractive, illustrious beauty. Of all the bird family, the peacock is the only bird that integrates all colors into one, and displays this radiance of fire only when in love. We, like the peacock, try to integrate all races into one through the love of music.\"\n\nIn honor of its 30th anniversary, \"Destiny\", including two bonus tracks of rare 12-inch disco mixes previously unavailable on CD, was released on January 27, 2009, on Epic/Legacy, a division of Sony Music Entertainment. Both unreleased tracks were mixed by John Luongo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817034", "title": "CFMI-FM", "text": "CFMI-FM\n\nCFMI-FM (identified on air and in print as \"Rock 101\") is a Canadian radio station in the Metro Vancouver region of British Columbia. It broadcasts at 101.1 MHz on the FM band with an effective radiated power of 100,000 watts (peak) from a transmitter on Mount Seymour in the District of North Vancouver. Owned by Corus Entertainment, the studios are located in Downtown Vancouver, in the TD Tower. The station has a classic rock format.\n\nCFMI first signed on in early 1970. Over the years, the station added FM transmitters in most of British Columbia. On July 26, 2011, CFMI-FM received Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) approval by increasing New Westminister's transmitter to the average effective radiated power (ERP) from 37,000 to 53,000 watts (maximum ERP from 75,000 to 100,000 watts), by decreasing the effective height of antenna above average terrain from 686 to 386.4 meters and by relocating its transmitter.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, CFMI-FM dropped the word \"Classic\" from its name and shifted its format from classic rock to mainstream rock; such a move was also implemented on CILQ-FM in Toronto, which is also owned by Corus.\n\nAs of November 2016, the station shifted to \"classic rock and the greatest hits of the 70's, 80's and 90's\".\n\nOn October 13, 2015, CFMI-HD was launched as the first Canadian HD service west of Ontario: \n\nThe station signed on with a very-short-lived country music format. This was followed by a light-popular music format (\"pop for adults\"). CFMI was distinguished in its earlier years by being a technical innovator of early automation systems. Stereo automation systems of the day relied heavily on reel-to-reel tape machines for music. CFMI's automation had no reel machines, but relied totally on cartridge carousels, which allowed greater programming flexibility (\"random access\"), but no broadcast cartridges of the day could reproduce quality stereo. The response of CFMI's engineers was to invent a new cartridge that could: the Aristocart. Parent company Western International Communications went on to develop a manufacturing division, exporting these improved cartridges to broadcasters around the world. Today's broadcasters use computer systems with large hard drives to reproduce music digitally, and have no need of tape systems. But in its heyday (circa 1975-1990), the Aristocart was an improvement to a technical problem shared by all commercial stereo broadcasters.\n\nAmong CFMI's programming innovations was \"Discumentary\", a one-hour musical documentary of programming featuring a particular artist or a particular theme. This was developed in response to the CRTC's requirement for foreground programming. The \"Discumentary\" programs were written by Paul Wiggins and voiced by Dave McCormick, then Terry David Mulligan and syndicated throughout Canada, and broadcast internationally on the Anik D satellite. Later, CRTC regulations phased out the need for foreground programming, and CFMI phased out \"Discumentary\".\n\nCFMI also operates on a number of low-power FM transmitters and cable channels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817044", "title": "Gad (son of Jacob)", "text": "Gad (son of Jacob)\n\nGad () was, according to the Book of Genesis, the first son of Jacob and Zilpah, the seventh of Jacob overall, and the founder of the Israelite Tribe of Gad. However some Biblical scholars view this as postdiction, an eponymous metaphor providing an aetiology of the connectedness of the tribe to others in the Israelite confederation. The text of the Book of Genesis implies that the name of \"Gad\" means \"luck\"/\"fortunate\", in Hebrew.\n\nThe Biblical account shows Zilpah's status as a handmaid change to an actual wife of Jacob (Genesis 30:9,11). Her handmaid status is regarded by some biblical scholars as indicating that the authors saw the tribe of Gad as being not of entirely Israelite origin; many scholars believe that Gad was a late addition to the Israelite confederation, as implied by the Moabite Stone, which seemingly differentiates between the Israelites and the tribe of Gad. \"Gad\" by this theory is assumed to have originally been a northwards-migrating nomadic tribe, at a time when the other tribes were quite settled in Canaan.\n\nAccording to classical rabbinical literature, Gad was born on 10 Cheshvan, and lived 125 years. These sources go on to state that, unlike his other brothers, Joseph didn't present Gad to the Pharaoh, since Joseph didn't want Gad to become one of Pharaoh's guards, an appointment that would have been likely had the Pharaoh realised that Gad had great strength.\n\nThe Book of Jasher states that Gad married Uzith. Uzith was the daughter of Amuram, the granddaughter of Uz and the great-grandson of Nahor (son of Terah).\n\n"}
{"id": "1817053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817053", "title": "Thabit number", "text": "Thabit number\n\nIn number theory, a Thabit number, Thâbit ibn Kurrah number, or 321 number is an integer of the form formula_1 for a non-negative integer \"n\".\n\nThe first few Thabit numbers are:\n\nThe 9th Century mathematician, physician, astronomer and translator Thābit ibn Qurra is credited as the first to study these numbers and their relation to amicable numbers.\n\nThe binary representation of the Thabit number 3·2−1 is \"n\"+2 digits long, consisting of \"10\" followed by \"n\" 1s.\n\nThe first few Thabit numbers that are prime (Thabit primes or 321 primes):\n\n, there are 62 known prime Thabit numbers. Their \"n\" values are :\n\nThe primes for \"n\"≥234760 were found by the distributed computing project 321 search. The largest of these, 3·2−1, has 3580969 digits and was found in June 2015.\n\nIn 2008, Primegrid took over the search for Thabit primes. It is still searching and has already found all currently known Thabit primes with n ≥ 4235414. It is also searching for primes of the form 3·2+1, such primes are called Thabit primes of the second kind or 321 primes of the second kind.\n\nThe first few Thabit numbers of the second kind are:\n\nThe first few Thabit primes of the second kind are:\n\nTheir \"n\" values are:\n\nWhen both \"n\" and \"n\"−1 yield Thabit primes (of the first kind), and formula_2 is also prime, a pair of amicable numbers can be calculated as follows:\n\nFor example, \"n\" = 2 gives the Thabit prime 11, and \"n\"−1 = 1 gives the Thabit prime 5, and our third term is 71. Then, 2=4, multiplied by 5 and 11 results in 220, whose divisors add up to 284, and 4 times 71 is 284, whose divisors add up to 220.\n\nThe only known \"n\" satisfying these conditions are 2, 4 and 7, corresponding to the Thabit primes 11, 47 and 383 given by \"n\", the Thabit primes 5, 23 and 191 given by \"n\"−1, and our third terms are 71, 1151 and 73727. (The corresponding amicable pairs are (220, 284), (17296, 18416) and (9363584, 9437056))\n\nFor integer \"b\" ≥ 2, a Thabit number base \"b is a number of the form (\"b\"+1)·\"b\" − 1 for a non-negative integer \"n\". Also, for integer \"b\" ≥ 2, a Thabit number of the second kind base \"b is a number of the form (\"b\"+1)·\"b\" + 1 for a non-negative integer \"n\".\n\nThe Williams numbers are also a generalization of Thabit numbers. For integer \"b\" ≥ 2, a Williams number base \"b is a number of the form (\"b\"−1)·\"b\" − 1 for a non-negative integer \"n\". Also, for integer \"b\" ≥ 2, a Williams number of the second kind base \"b is a number of the form (\"b\"−1)·\"b\" + 1 for a non-negative integer \"n\".\n\nFor integer \"b\" ≥ 2, a Thabit prime base \"b is a Thabit number base \"b that is also prime. Similarly, for integer \"b\" ≥ 2, a Williams prime base \"b is a Williams number base \"b that is also prime.\n\nEvery prime \"p\" is a Thabit prime of the first kind base \"p\", a Williams prime of the first kind base \"p\"+2, and a Williams prime of the second kind base \"p\"; if \"p\" ≥ 5, then \"p\" is also a Thabit prime of the second kind base \"p\"−2.\n\nIt is a conjecture that for every integer \"b\" ≥ 2, there are infinitely many Thabit primes of the first kind base \"b\", infinitely many Williams primes of the first kind base \"b\", and infinitely many Williams primes of the second kind base \"b\"; also, for every integer \"b\" ≥ 2 that is not congruent to 1 modulo 3, there are infinitely many Thabit primes of the second kind base \"b\". (If the base \"b\" is congruent to 1 modulo 3, then all Thabit numbers of the second kind base \"b\" are divisible by 3 (and greater than 3, since \"b\" ≥ 2), so there are no Thabit primes of the second kind base \"b\".)\n\nThe exponent of Thabit primes of the second kind cannot congruent to 1 mod 3 (except 1 itself), the exponent of Williams primes of the first kind cannot congruent to 4 mod 6, and the exponent of Williams primes of the second kind cannot congruent to 1 mod 6 (except 1 itself), since the corresponding polynomial to \"b\" is a reducible polynomial. (If \"n\" ≡ 1 mod 3, then (\"b\"+1)·\"b\" + 1 is divisible by \"b\" + \"b\" + 1; if \"n\" ≡ 4 mod 6, then (\"b\"−1)·\"b\" − 1 is divisible by \"b\" − \"b\" + 1; and if \"n\" ≡ 1 mod 6, then (\"b\"−1)·\"b\" + 1 is divisible by \"b\" − \"b\" + 1) Otherwise, the corresponding polynomial to \"b\" is an irreducible polynomial, so if Bunyakovsky conjecture is true, then there are infinitely many bases \"b\" such that the corresponding number (for fixed exponent \"n\" satisfying the condition) is prime. ((\"b\"+1)·\"b\" − 1 is irreducible for all nonnegative integer \"n\", so if Bunyakovsky conjecture is true, then there are infinitely many bases \"b\" such that the corresponding number (for fixed exponent \"n\") is prime)\n\nLeast \"k\" ≥ 1 such that (\"n\"+1)·\"n\" − 1 is prime are: (start with \"n\" = 2)\n\nLeast \"k\" ≥ 1 such that (\"n\"+1)·\"n\" + 1 is prime are: (start with \"n\" = 2, 0 if no such \"k\" exists)\n\nLeast \"k\" ≥ 1 such that (\"n\"−1)·\"n\" − 1 is prime are: (start with \"n\" = 2)\n\nLeast \"k\" ≥ 1 such that (\"n\"−1)·\"n\" + 1 is prime are: (start with \"n\" = 2)\n\n"}
{"id": "1817055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817055", "title": "Equivalent carbon content", "text": "Equivalent carbon content\n\nThe equivalent carbon content concept is used on ferrous materials, typically steel and cast iron, to determine various properties of the alloy when more than just carbon is used as an alloyant, which is typical. The idea is to convert the percentage of alloying elements other than carbon to the equivalent carbon percentage, because the iron-carbon phases are better understood than other iron-alloy phases. Most commonly this concept is used in welding, but it is also used when heat treating and casting cast iron.\n\nIn welding, equivalent carbon content (C.E) is used to understand how the different alloying elements affect hardness of the steel being welded. This is then directly related to hydrogen-induced cold cracking, which is the most common weld defect for steel, thus it is most commonly used to determine weldability. Higher concentrations of carbon and other alloying elements such as manganese, chromium, silicon, molybdenum, vanadium, copper, and nickel tend to increase hardness and decrease weldability. Each of these elements tends to influence the hardness and weldability of the steel to different magnitudes, however, making a method of comparison necessary to judge the difference in hardness between two alloys made of different alloying elements. There are two commonly used formulas for calculating the equivalent carbon content. One is from the American Welding Society (AWS) and recommended for structural steels and the other is the formula based on the International Institute of Welding (IIW). \n\nThe AWS states that for an equivalent carbon content above 0.40% there is a potential for cracking in the heat-affected zone (HAZ) on flame cut edges and welds. However, structural engineering standards rarely use CE, but rather limit the maximum percentage of certain alloying elements. This practice started before the CE concept existed, so just continues to be used. This has led to issues because certain high strength steels are now being used that have a CE higher than 0.50% that have brittle failures.\n\nThe other and most popular formula is the Dearden and O'Neill formula, which was adopted by IIW in 1967. This formula has been found suitable for predicting hardenability in a large range of commonly used plain carbon and carbon-manganese steels, but not to microalloyed high-strength low-alloy steels or low-alloy Cr-Mo steels. The formula is defined as follows:\n\nFor this equation the weldability based on a range of CE values can be defined as follows: \n\nThe Japanese Welding Engineering Society adopted the critical metal parameter (Pcm) for weld cracking, which was based on the work from Ito and Bessyo, is: \n\nIf some of the values are not available, the following formula is sometimes used:\n\nThe carbon equivalent is a measure of the tendency of the weld to form martensite on cooling and to suffer brittle fracture. When the carbon equivalent is between 0.40 and 0.60 weld preheat may be necessary. When the carbon equivalent is above 0.60, preheat is necessary, postheat may be necessary.\n\nThe following carbon equivalent formula is used to determine if a spot weld will fail in high-strength low-alloy steel due to excessive hardenability:\n\nWhere UTS is the ultimate tensile strength in ksi and h is the strip thickness in inches. A CE value of 0.3 or less is considered safe.\n\nA special carbon equivalent was developed by Yurioka, which could determine the critical time in seconds \"Δt\" for the formation of martensitic in the Heat Affected Zone (HAZ) in low-carbon alloy steels. The equation is given as:\n\nwhere: \n\nThen the critical time length in seconds \"Δt\" can be determined as follows: \n\nFor cast iron the equivalent carbon content (CE) concept is used to understand how alloying elements will affect the heat treatment and casting behavior. It is used as a predictor of strength in cast irons because it gives an approximate balance of austenite and graphite in final structure. The following formulas are used to determine the CE in cast irons:\n\nThis CE is then used to determine if the alloy is hypoeutectic, eutectic, or hypereutectic; for cast irons the eutectic is 4.3% carbon. When casting cast iron this is useful for determining the final grain structure; for example, a hypereutectic cast iron usually has a coarse grain structure and large kish graphite flakes are formed. Also, there is less shrinkage as the CE increases. When heat treating cast iron, various CE samples are tested to empirically determine the correlation between CE and hardness. The following is an example for induction hardened gray irons:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817058", "title": "Whitewater Valley Railroad", "text": "Whitewater Valley Railroad\n\nThe Whitewater Valley Railroad is a heritage railroad in southeastern Indiana between Connersville and Metamora.\n\nThe railroad is dedicated to the preservation and presentation of a 1950s era of branch line railroading. It is now operated by vintage diesel switchers and road switchers during most of the year. Steam operations vary from year to year. The most recent steam locomotive donated to the organization is New York Central B-10W 0-6-0 #6894. It is nearly identical to the last steam engines operated on the line.\n\nThe Whitewater River formed a natural trade route for Native Americans and for early settlers. In 1836 the new state of Indiana approved funds to build the Whitewater Canal, following the river from Lawrenceburg, Indiana, all the way to Hagerstown, Indiana, . It was opened to Connersville, Indiana, in 1845. While improving trade for the area, it suffered from alternate droughts and floods, which carried away aqueducts and embankments. It was so damaged by floods in the later 1850s that residents petitioned the state to sell the right of way for a railroad.\n\nIn 1863 the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad (I&C) acquired the right to build on the old towpath, although many portions of the canal remained open as a source of water power for mills such as the one still operating in Metamora. The canal remained open in Connersville until 1953, when Western Avenue was built over the top of it.\n\nAfter the I&C purchased the canal right-of-way, its subsidiary, the White Water Valley Railroad (WVRR), reached Connersville in the spring of 1867, and continued on to Hagerstown in 1868. The WWVRR connected with the I&C main line at Valley Junction, west of Cincinnati, and ran trains into Cincinnati over that line.\n\nInitially operated by the I&C, the WVRR operated independently for several years. In 1890 the WVRR was absorbed by the growing *Big Four* - the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis. The Big Four (later the New York Central Railroad or NYC) operated commuter trains from Connersville and from Harrison, Ohio, into Cincinnati, and briefly operated through trains and parlor cars from Cincinnati to Fort Wayne, changing at Connersville to the tracks of the Lake Erie and Western Railroad.\n\nThe little used section between Connersville and Hagerstown was abandoned by the NYC 1931, with the track removed from this section in 1936, and all passenger service ended in 1933. Local freight continued behind steam locomotives until 1957, and behind diesel locomotives until discontinued by the NYC's successor, the Penn Central Railroad in 1972.\n\nThe formation of Conrail in 1976 saw that company provide rail service in Connersville; however the line was disconnected from the rest of the Conrail system.\n\nThe line between Metamora and Connersville was sold to the non-profit Whitewater Valley Railroad in 1984, although freight operation from Brookville to Valley Junction was taken over in 1979 by the Indiana and Ohio Railway. Freight service was abandoned on the Whitewater line between Brookville and Connersville in 1974. The portion of the remaining NYC branch between Connersville and Beeson's Station was sold to Indiana Hi-Rail Corporation in 1981.\n\nThe present Whitewater Valley Railroad was formed as a not-for-profit corporation in 1972, and began weekend passenger operations in 1974 on of leased Penn Central Railroad track between Connersville and Brookville. After a substantial washout closed the track between Metamora and Brookville in 1974, the Penn Central lifted of track in 1976.\n\nThe remaining of line from Connersville through Metamora were formally purchased by the Whitewater Valley in 1983, followed later by an additional of track in Connersville that was no longer wanted by the Indiana Hi-Rail Corporation.\n\nOperation of the heritage railroad has always been conducted entirely by volunteers, supplemented by a paid office manager. Track upgrading has been assisted by matching grants, totalling over $1.6 million since 1994. The railroad museum has rescued two historic railroad structures from the region including Dearborn Tower (NYC - B&O) from Lawrenceburg, Indiana, as well as the B&O Rushville, Indiana, passenger depot. These buildings are located on the south end of the Connersville Yard. The railroad proposes to install a turntable and roundhouse shelter to protect locomotives and other equipment from the weather in this general location along with providing space for other historic buildings. In 2012 the railroad constructed a ' restoration shop on the north end of the Connersville Yard.\n\nThe railroad operates passenger excursion trains pulled by historic diesel locomotives and open window Erie, New York Central, and Rock Island coaches on a regular schedule. These trains often include a caboose from the museum's collection. One route, the Valley Flyer, operates from Connersville to Metamora, while another operates as the Metamora Local, carrying passengers south on a excursion along the restored canal, past the canal boat dock, a working aqueduct, and a restored lock. This train consist usually includes at least one caboose and a coach. During winter operations, trains operate with steam heat provided by a generator car formerly used by Via Rail Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817062", "title": "Los Roldán", "text": "Los Roldán\n\nLos Roldán is a Spanish language telenovela produced by Argentina's Telefe from 2004 to 2005. The drama, which is also described by many as a comedy, actually ended up winning an award in 2004 as Argentina's Comedy of the Year. RCN Colombian network bought the soap opera, making a Colombian version called \"Los Reyes\", while the Mexican version of \"Los Roldán\" is \"Los Sánchez\", produced by TV Azteca. \nIn 2008, ANT1 Cyprus, produced the series in a Cypriot version called \"Η ζωή είναι ωραία\" (\"I zoi ine orea\" - \"Life is wonderful\").\nIn 2012, Mega Channel, produced the series in a Greek version called \"Οι Βασιλιάδες\" (\"I Vasiliades\" - \"The Kings\").\n\nTito Roldán was a humble local supermarket driver in Argentina's rural area, when, one day, an elderly woman showed up where he was fishing, apparently trying to commit suicide. She had been diagnosed with a deadly disease; although the word cancer was never mentioned in the soap opera, there were many indications that this is what she had. Tito saves the woman, Mercedes Lozada, and she in turn gifts him with a mansion she owned and with the presidency of her company.\n\nWhen Roldán, his former girlfriend Yoli, and his close family (except his mother and one of his sisters) moved to the mansion, located in one of Buenos Aires' richest areas, they garnered the hate of many of their neighbors, particularly the Uriarte family, composed of Emilio Uriarte, his wife Chichita Banegas, and their son Facundo Uriarte. Part of the hate was generated because Emilio worked for the company headed by Mercedes Lozada and he wanted to be the company's president; when Tito Roldán basically appeared out of nowhere and became president, this infuriated Emilio. Adding to everything was the fact that both Laisa Roldán (Tito\"s transsexual sister) and Chichita Banegas were both television stars who considered themselves divas and were made to compete at the same time slot by their respective television channels.\n\nTo complicate things further, each member of the Uriarte family fell in love with a different member of the Roldán family, and their love was returned by their romantic interests. Emilio Uriarte, ignoring that Laiza Roldán used to be a man, fell in love with her; Laiza called him \"mi hombre malo\" (\"my bad guy\"). Chichita Banegas fell in love with Tito's son. Both Emilio and Chichita began adulterous relationships, which led them to talk about divorce, and about the possibility of a legal battle over their daughter's, a dog, custody. Since Facundo was over-age, there would be no battles over his custody. But, Facundo fell in love with a Roldán too, Tito's daughter Hilda, eventually marrying her.\n\nAt about the same time, Tito's mother returned from the countryside with her daughter. Since Laiza, who used to be Raúl Roldán, had her sex change operation after arriving at Buenos Aires, both she and Tito feared an emotional shock by their mother, so Laiza refused to tell her mother that she was, in fact, her daughter, posing instead as a friend of the Roldáns. Her mother knew Laiza was Raúl all along; she just pretended not to know, leading everyone else in her family to many situations where they thought that she had Alzheimer's disease. Laiza Roldán was played by a real life transsexual actor, Florencia De La V.\n\nMeanwhile, Yoli and Tito reconciled and restarted their romantic relationship. Yoli. However, did not want to marry Tito because she knew that Cecilia was waiting to have Tito's child. Mercedes, who used to fly constantly between Paris and Buenos Aires, was told by her doctors that it was best for her to stay in Buenos Aires if she wanted to live longer, so she stayed in Argentina. Worried about the damage she was about to cause her beloved Tito, Cecilia decided to have the baby and let the Roldáns have the custody of the baby. She moved to Uruguay after having the baby, but every weekend flew to Buenos Aires to see her child. Tito and Yoli then married, with Yoli making her dream of becoming a mother a reality by caring for Cecilia's baby during the weekdays. Mercedes moved back to the Roldán mansion, and, as a result, both of Tito's mothers, his natural one and his adoptive one, lived under the same roof for the first time. They enjoyed a good friendship for the rest of Mercedes' life.\n\nChichita, who, by the way, was French, stayed with Tito's son. On the other hand, Emilio and his lawyer, Jean Paul, were jailed after being found guilty of fraud, but, since they were rich, they enjoyed privileges that most inmates cannot, such as their own private lavatories, private television sets and catering, clean, designer clothes, and other things. Even after Emilio found that Laiza used to be a man, he realized Laiza was his real love, and the two ended up together.\n\nBecause \"Laiza Roldán\" was a famous television personality, she had the opportunity to meet many celebrities in person, and, sometimes, take them home to meet her family.\n\nThis is a list of real life famous personalities that appeared in \"Los Roldán\", acting as themselves:\n\n"}
{"id": "1817074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817074", "title": "Post-war consensus", "text": "Post-war consensus\n\nThe post-war consensus is a thesis that describes the political co-operation in post-war British political history, from the end of World War II in 1945 to the late-1970s, and its repudiation by Conservative Party leader Margaret Thatcher. Majorities in both parties agreed upon it. The consensus tolerated or encouraged nationalisation, strong trade unions, heavy regulation, high taxes, and a generous welfare state.\n\nThe concept states that there was a widespread consensus that covered support for a coherent package of policies that were developed in the 1930s and promised during the Second World War, focused on a mixed economy, Keynesianism, and a broad welfare state. In recent years, the timing of the interpretation has been debated by historians, asking whether it had weakened and collapsed before Thatcherism arrived in 1979. There has also been debate as to whether a \"postwar consensus\" ever really existed.\n\nThe thesis of post-war consensus was most fully developed by Paul Addison. The basic argument is that in the 1930s Liberal intellectuals led by John Maynard Keynes and William Beveridge developed a series of plans that became especially attractive as the wartime government promised a much better post-war Britain and saw the need to engage every sector of society.\n\nThe foundations of the post-war consensus can be traced to the Beveridge Report. This was a report by William Beveridge, a Liberal economist who in 1942 formulated the concept of a more comprehensive welfare state in Great Britain. The report, in shortened terms, aimed to bring widespread reform to the United Kingdom and did so by identifying the \"five giants on the road of reconstruction\": \"Want… Disease, Ignorance, Squalor and Idleness\". In the report were labelled a number of recommendations: the appointment of a minister to control all the insurance schemes; a standard weekly payment by people in work as a contribution to the insurance fund; old age pensions, maternity grants, funeral grants, pensions for widows and for people injured at work; a new national health service to be established.\n\nThe post-war consensus included a belief in Keynesian economics, a mixed economy with the nationalisation of major industries, the establishment of the National Health Service and the creation of the modern welfare state in Britain. The policies were instituted by all governments (both Labour and Conservative) in the post-war period. The consensus has been held to characterise British politics until the economic crises of the 1970s (see Secondary banking crisis of 1973–1975) which led to the end of the post-war economic boom and the rise of monetarist economics. The roots of his economics, however, stem from critique of the economics of the interwar period depression. Keynes' style of economics encouraged a more active role of the government in order to \"manage overall demand so that there was a balance between demand and output\". It was claimed that in the period between 1945-1970 (consensus years) that unemployment averaged less than 3%, although the legitimacy of whether this was solely down to Keynes remains unclear.\n\nThe first general election since 1935 was held in Britain in May 1945, giving a landslide victory for the Labour Party, whose leader was Clement Attlee. The policies undertaken and implemented by this Labour government laid the base of the consensus. The Conservative Party accepted many of these changes and promised not to reverse them in its 1947 \"Industrial Charter\". Attlee, using the Beveridge Report and Keynes economics, laid out his plans for what became known as \"The Attlee Settlement\".\n\nThe main areas he would tackle:\n\nThe coalition government during the war, headed by Churchill and Attlee, signed off on a series of white papers that promised Britain a much improved welfare state after the war. The promises included the national health service, and expansion of education, housing, and a number of welfare programmes. It included the nationalisation of weak industries.\n\nIn education, the major legislation was the Education Act of 1944, written by Conservative Rab Butler, a moderate, with his deputy, Labour's James Chuter Ede, a former teacher who would become Home Secretary throughout the Attlee administration. It expanded and modernised the educational system and became part of the consensus. The Labour Party did not challenge the system of elite public schools – they became part of the consensus. It also called for building many new universities to dramatically broaden educational base of society. Conservatives did not challenge the socialised medicine of the National Health Service; indeed, they boasted they could do a better job of running it.\n\nIn terms of foreign policy, there is much evidence to suggest that there was a shared set of views that were rooted in role of the recent history. Dennis Kavanagh and Peter Morris emphasise the importance of the second world war, and war time cabinet, in yielding a set of values that were shared amongst the major parties rooted in the events leading up to the war: \"Atlanticism, the development of an independent nuclear deterrent, the process of imperial disengagement and reluctant Europeanism: all originated in the 1945 Labour Government and were subsequently continued...by its successors\". However, there were some disagreement on areas of foreign policy, such as the introduction of the Commonwealth where  \"Labour opposed the conservative 'imperial rhetoric' with the idealism of multicultural Commonwealth\" or, in the same vein, decolonization, which became \"an important theme of partisan conflict\" in which Conservatives showed a reluctance to give back colonial possessions as well as the gradual process of independence.\n\nIt is argued that from 1945 until the arrival of Margaret Thatcher in 1979, there was a broad multi-partisan national consensus on social and economic policy, especially regarding the welfare state, nationalised health services, educational reform, a mixed economy, government regulation, Keynesian macroeconomics, policies, and full employment. Apart from the question of nationalisation of some industries, these policies were broadly accepted by the three major parties, as well as by industry, the financial community and the labour movement. Until the 1980s, historians generally agreed on the existence and importance of the consensus. Some historians such as Ralph Miliband expressed disappointment that the consensus was a modest or even conservative package that blocked a fully socialised society. Historian Angus Calder complained bitterly that the post-war reforms were an inadequate reward for the wartime sacrifices, and a cynical betrayal of the people's hope for a more just post-war society.\n\nHowever, it is still important to note that there was not total agreement between the two major parties and there were still policies which the Conservatives did not support, such as how the National Health Service would be implemented. Henry Willink, who was the Conservative minister of health from 1943-1945, opposed the nationalisation of hospitals. This could indicate that the post-war consensus may have been over-exaggerated, as many historians have argued.\n\n\"The Future of Socialism\" by Anthony Crosland, published in 1956, was one of the most influential books in post-war British Labour Party thinking It was the seminal work of the 'revisionist' school of Labour politics.\nA central argument in the book is Crosland's distinction between 'means' and 'ends'. Crosland demonstrates the variety of socialist thought over time, and argues that a definition of socialism founded on nationalisation and public ownership is mistaken, since these are simply one possible means to an end. For Crosland, the defining goal of the left should be more social equality. Crosland argued that\n\nCrosland also argued that an attack on unjustified inequalities would give any left party a political project to make the definition of the end point of 'how much equality' a secondary and more academic question.\n\nCrosland also developed his argument about the nature of capitalism (developing the argument in his contribution 'The Transition from Capitalism' in the 1952 \"New Fabian Essays\" volume). Asking, \"is this still capitalism?\", Crosland argued that post-war capitalism had fundamentally changed, meaning that the Marxist claim that it was not possible to pursue equality in a capitalist economy was no longer true. Crosland wrote that,\n\nCrosland argued that these features of a reformed managerial capitalism were irreversible. Others within the Labour Party argued that Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan brought about its reversal.\n\nA third important argument was Crosland's liberal vision of the 'good society'. Here his target was the dominance in Labour and Fabian thinking of Sidney Webb and Beatrice Webb, and a rather grey, top down bureaucratic vision of the socialist project. Following Tawney, Crosland stressed that equality would not mean uniformity:\n\n\"Butskellism\" was a somewhat satirical term sometimes used in British politics to refer to this consensus, established in the 1950s and associated with the exercise of office as Chancellor of the Exchequer by Rab Butler of the Conservatives and Hugh Gaitskell of Labour. The term was inspired by a leading article in \"The Economist\" by Norman Macrae which dramatised the claimed convergence by referring to a fictitious \"Mr. Butskell\".\n\nHowever, there is much discussion over the extent to which there was actually a consensus and it has also been challenged as a myth. Many political thinkers and historians have argued both for and against the concept of consensus. Paul Addison, the historian most credited with developing the thesis, has engaged in discussions, such as with Kevin Jeffreys who disagrees. Jeffreys says that \"Much of Labours programme after 1945, it must be remembered, was fiercely contested at the time\" using the example of the Conservatives to vote against the NHS. He attributes to the War the reason for the 'shock' result of the 1945 General Election. Addison addresses many of Jeffreys' claims, such as the argument that if the Conservatives could have capitalised upon the Beveridge report they would have been the ones with a powerful mandate for pursuing policy, not the Labour party. Addison also changes his stance in this article, stating how he \"exaggerated the extent to which 'middle opinion' already prevailed on the front benches\" and determining that, in fact he \"agree(s) with much of Dr Jeffreys' analysis\".\n\nThere are also a number of other interpretations of the consensus which many historians have discussed such as Labour Historian Ben Pimlott. He says this idea is a \"mirage, an illusion which rapidly fades the closer one gets to it.\" Pimlott sees much disputation and little harmony. He notes the term \"Butskellism\" meant harmony of economic policy between the parties, but it was in practice a term of abuse, not celebration. In 2002, Scott Kelly claimed that there was in fact a sustained argument over the use of physical controls, monetary policy and direct taxation. Political scientists Dennis Kavanagh and Peter Morris defend the concept, arguing that clear, major continuities existed regarding policies toward the economy, full employment, trade unions, and welfare programs. There was agreement as well on the major issues of foreign policy. British historian David Kynaston considers the period of post-war consensus a unique and distinct period in the history of twentieth century Britain and has undertaken to map the development of British society between 1945–79 in his ongoing series of books titled \"Tales of a New Jerusalem\". So far, three volumes have been published, covering the years 1945–63.\n\nDean Blackburn offers a different argument about the accuracy of the consensus. He proffers that the so-called consensus did not stem from ideological agreement, rather, an epistemological one (if any). He makes clear the ideological differences between the Conservatives and the Labour party; the latter openly wanting an equal and egalitarian society while the former was more reluctant, for example. Rather, he suggests that an examination of parties' shared epistemological beliefs – \"similar ideas about appropriate political conduct\", a \"shared a common suspicion of the notion that politics could serve fixed 'ends', and...believed that evolutionary change was preferable to radical change\" – would offer a better insight into whether or not there was a consensus or not. Blackburn summarises this saying that instead of \"being rooted in common ideological beliefs about the desirable 'ends' of political activity, the consensus may have stemmed from epistemological assumptions and the political propositions that followed from them\".\n\nMarket-orientated conservatives gathered strength in the 1970s in the face of economic paralysis. They rediscovered Friedrich Hayek's the \"Road to Serfdom\" (1944) and brought in Milton Friedman, the leader of the Chicago school of economics. He preached Monetarism to discredit Keynesianism. Keith Joseph played a major role as an advisor to Thatcher.\n\nKeynesianism itself seemed no longer to be the magic bullet for economic crises of the 1970s. Mark Kesselman et al. argue:\nGlobal events such as the 1973 oil crisis put pressure on the post-war consensus; this pressure was intensified by domestic problems such as high inflation, the three-day week and industrial unrest (particularly in the declining coal-mining industry). In early 1976, expectations that inflation and the double deficit would get worse precipitated a Sterling crisis. By October, the pound had fallen by almost 25% against the dollar. At this point the Bank of England had exhausted its foreign reserves trying to prop up the currency, and as a result the Callaghan government felt forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for a £2.3 billion loan, then the largest that the IMF had ever made. In return the IMF demanded massive spending cuts and a tightening of the money supply. That marked a suspension of Keynesian economics in Britain. Callaghan reinforced this message in his speech to the Labour Party Conference at the height of the crisis, saying:\nA cause of the supposed collapse of the post war consensus is the idea of the state overload thesis, chiefly examined in the UK by political scientist Anthony King. He summarises the chain of events as saying \"Once upon a time, then, man looked to God to order the World. Then he looked to the market. Now he looks to government\". It is suggested that due to the increased demand on the government during the consensus years, that an imbalance grew between what was possible to deliver and the demands that had been created. The process is defined as being cyclical: \"more demands means more government intervention, which generates yet more expectations\". It is believed that these qualms with the consensus are what led, in part, to the emergence of the New Right and Margaret Thatcher.\n\nThatcher reversed other elements of the post-war consensus, as when her Housing Act 1980 allowed the residents to buy their flats. Thatcher did keep key elements of the post-war consensus, such as nationalised health care. \nShe promised Britons in 1982 that the National Health Service is \"safe in our hands.\"\n\nEconomists Stephen Broadberry and Nicholas Crafts have argued that anticompetitive practices, enshrined in the post-war consensus, appear to have hindered the efficient working of the economy and, by implication, the reallocation of resources to their most profitable uses. David Higgins says the statistical data support Broadberry and Crafts.\n\nThe consensus was increasingly seen by those on the right as being the cause of Britain's relative economic decline. Believers in New Right political beliefs saw their ideology as the solution to Britain's economic dilemmas in the 1970s. When the Conservative Party won the 1979 general election in the wake of the 1978–79 Winter of discontent, they implemented New Right ideas and brought the post-war consensus to an end. A similar Thatcherite consensus would exist during John Major's premiership, with Neil Kinnock, John Smith and Tony Blair mostly accepting the policies advocated by the Conservatives at this time-this continued until the financial crisis of 2007–2008, which convinced politicians to abandon New Right neo-liberal markets and deregulation in favour of Keynesian methodologies.\n\nOutside Britain, the term \"post-war consensus\" is used for an era of New Zealand political history, from the first New Zealand Labour Party government of the 1930s until the election of a fundamentally changed Labour party in 1984, following years of mostly New Zealand National Party rule. As in the UK, it was built around a 'historic compromise' between the different classes in society: the rights, health and security of employment for all workers would be guaranteed, in return for co-operation between unions and employers. The key ideological tenets of governments of the period were Keynesian economic policy, heavy interventionism, economic regulation and a very powerful welfare state.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817075", "title": "Djurgårdens IF Hockey", "text": "Djurgårdens IF Hockey\n\nDjurgårdens IF Ishockeyförening – commonly known as Djurgårdens IF, Djurgården Hockey, Djurgården () – is a professional ice hockey team based in Stockholm, Sweden, affiliated with the Djurgårdens IF umbrella organization. Djurgården is currently playing in the Swedish premier ice hockey league, the Swedish Hockey League. Djurgården is the most successful Swedish hockey team of all time, as 16-time Swedish champions, 12-time runners-up, and leaders of the marathon table for the top flight of Swedish hockey. The ice hockey department was first established in 1922 and has since been playing in the Swedish league system, with the exception of four years in the 1930s when the hockey department was temporarily dissolved. \n\nDjurgården primarily play their home games at Hovet, an older arena built in the 1950s with a capacity of 8,094, but high-profile matches such as derbies against AIK and playoff games may be played in the Ericsson Globe with its larger capacity of 13,850.\n\nDjurgården have retired nine players' jerseys in their history, and have retired the number 2 twice, since both Roland Stoltz and Charles Berglund had worn the number before retiring jerseys became well-established in Sweden. The most common nicknames for the team are \"\"Järnkaminerna\"\" (\"The Iron Stoves\"), \"\"Stockholms stolthet\"\" (\"The Pride of Stockholm\") and \"\"Mesta mästarna\"\" (\"The Winners of Most Championships\"). Djurgården also has a supporters' club called Järnkaminerna, which it shares with the football department.\n\nDjurgårdens IF was founded 12 March 1891 at a café at the address of Alberget 4A on the island Djurgården. Ice hockey was introduced in Sweden in 1921, and the club's hockey department was founded in 1922 with the help of IK Göta player Wilhelm Arwe. The club participated in its first Swedish championship the same year, being beaten by Hammarby in the semifinals. The club's roster consisted of only six players but was reinforced with five new players for the following season. Djurgården managed to reach the final during this season against IK Göta, which proved to be too hard and Djurgården lost 3–0 at Stockholms Stadion. The procedure was repeated in 1924 and Djurgården had to wait until 1926 to finally lift the Le Mat trophy for the first time, after a 7–1 victory against VIK Västerås HK. The club was successful early on and four Djurgården players were named for the Swedish roster in the 1924 Winter Olympics. At the 1926 Swedish Championship, the team contained three of those players, Wilhelm Arwe, Ernst Karlberg and Ruben Allinger.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1930s, the success Djurgården had during the 1920s began to fade. High costs and low attendance figures took their toll on the hockey department, and the main club itself. At the same time, no new leaders or players joined Djurgården. When the team was relegated to the second division in 1934, the hockey department was dissolved. Instead, focus was moved to the bandy department and given the hockey department's resources.\n\nThe department was restarted in 1938 in the sixth division (Klass VI) and the team consisted of former players like Einar \"Stor-Klas\" Svensson and Gustaf \"Lulle\" Johansson. The team only played three league games during this season; but this was enough to win the sixth division and get the team promoted to the fifth division. Problems arose when the club tried to recruit new players. Those who were asked to join the team thought the inquiry was some kind of joke. However, the club managed to gather enough players to take part in the following season's matches. These players had mainly played bandy and football prior to joining the hockey team. The plan for the coming seasons was to get promoted every year until the club reached the highest division again. Thus the 1940s consisted mainly of climbing in the league system.\n\nFor three years in a row from the fifth division, Skuru IK was always ahead of Djurgården in the league table. However, as two teams were promoted from every division, this was of no concern. The 1942–43 season was never completed due to warm weather, but since the national division 2 were expanded to six leagues for the 1943–44 season, both Djurgården and Skuru were promoted anyway. This meant that Djurgården now had left the local Stockholm leagues and advanced to the national leagues. Djurgården would have to wait until 1947 to finally win a division again, only to be beaten by Atlas Diesel and Västerås SK in the promotion playoffs. For the 1948–49 season, the team was finally back in the highest league, and finished second behind Hammarby. No Swedish championship was played this season due to warm weather, and the only available hockey rink at Stockholms Stadion could not suffice. The hockey department had now trained their own talents, who began to replace many of the players still playing for either the bandy or the football department.\n\nThe 1950s began well for Djurgården. While the team couldn't beat Hammarby in the league, the Swedish Championship was a different matter. After winning on walk over against Forshaga IF, the team advanced to the semifinals to meet Hammarby. The dominants of the 1930s and the 1940s were beaten 3–1 after one goal each by twins Hans and Stig Andersson, and one goal by Karl-Erik Andersson. Djurgården's final opponent Mora IK proved to be an easy task. Gösta \"Lill-Lulle\" Johansson scored three goals and in the end, Mora was beaten 7–2. This was the first Swedish Championship for the club in 24 years.\n\nThe Swedish championship was remade for the 1952–53 season. Instead of a single-elimination tournament with a total of eight teams, the winners of the south and north divisions met each other twice to decide the championship. Djurgården's opponent in the final were Gävle Godtemplares IK; the first game ended with a 5–1 victory, and the second game ended with a 1–1 draw. Led by Sven \"Tumba\" Johansson's 19-goal season, Djurgården went on to win the south division by winning all ten league games in the 1954–55 season. Both finals in 1955 were played at Johanneshovs IP and Djurgården won both games against Hammarby IF, 6–3 in the first and 11–2 in the second final. The second final is still a record for the number of goals scored in a Swedish championship final.\n\nDjurgården suffered from economical problems after the 2004–05 Elitserien season and lost 16 players before the following season. The club had to rely players from the junior teams and could only acquire new players who were rejected by other clubs due to the poor economy. The club's goal for the season was to stay clear of the relegation positions in the league table, which was accomplished. However, for the first time in 20 years, Djurgården was left outside the playoffs.\nFor the 2007–08 season, they changed their official home ice from the Stockholm Globe Arena to their smaller, former home arena, Hovet. Nevertheless, a significant minority of the games was scheduled for the larger arena, just like some games were played on Hovet during the Globe era. Djurgården reached the playoffs, finishing seventh in the regular season. The runner-up of the regular season, Linköpings HC, chose Djurgården and knocked them out of the playoffs, 4–1 in games. During the 2008–09 season all games were played at Hovet. Djurgården was often close to the relegation spots. Five straight wins after new year put Djurgården on safe ground. Although, as the teams on the last playoff-spots kept winning, the team ended up on 10th position in the league table.\n\nThe 2009–10 season began with the Nordic Trophy pre-season tournament, which Djurgården won. Djurgården finished second in the league and lost the finals to HV71, Djurgården won the first final 4–3 but lost 4–2 in matches. Five of six finals went to overtime. This was the first finals for Djurgården since the 2001 playoffs.\n\nAfter struggling through the 2011–12 season, Djurgården finished eleventh and had to play in the 2012 Kvalserien. Subsequently, the team was relegated to the second-tier league HockeyAllsvenskan for the 2012–13 season after failing to make the top two spots in the Kvalserien. This ended a 35-year run of consecutive Elitserien seasons for Djurgården. As a result, Djurgården fired general manager Jan Järlefelt and replaced him by Charles Berglund. Big budget cuts were also made, the player salary budget was cut in half. Djurgården set the goal to return to Elitserien immediately the following season. The team reached fifth place in the regular season, and Djurgården had to play qualification games for the 2013 Kvalserien. However, Djurgården failed to reach the final spot and the season was over.\n\nThe team was renewed for the 2013–14 season, with veteran players Kristofer Ottosson, Jimmie Ölvestad, Fredrik Bremberg and Christian Eklund retiring. Despite a rough period in November with six straight losses, Djurgården finished the regular season on third place in the league table, which guaranteed a spot in the 2014 Kvalserien. The fight for second place after already qualified Örebro was close, and had to be decided in the last round of Kvalserien. Djurgården managed to grab the spot with 17 points, the same number as Rögle but with better goal difference due to a 6-2 win against VIK Västerås HK in the final game of the season. Djurgården was once again a team of Sweden's top tier league.\n\nThe Swedish Hockey League board stirred up a controversy with the decision to redistribute 6 million SEK of TV sponsorship from Djurgården to newly relegated AIK IF in May 2014. AIK received the money to ease the transition from SHL to HockeyAllsvenskan. This was widely criticised by Djurgården, fans and clubs in HockeyAllsvenskan.\n\n\"This is a partial list of the last five seasons completed by Djurgården. For the full season-by-season history, see List of Djurgårdens IF Hockey seasons.\" Code explanation; GP—Games played, W—Wins, L—Losses, T—Tied games, GF—Goals for, GA—Goals against, Pts—Points. Top Scorer: Points (Goals+Assists)\n\n\nDjurgården has honoured a total of nine player numbers. The number 2 worn by Roland Stoltz, who spent 15 seasons with Djurgården between 1955 and 1970. As well, the number 2 worn by Charles Berglund was also retired by Djurgården, on 24 January 2012. Berglund played 12 seasons with Djurgården and won the Swedish Championship with them five times. He was the team's captain in his four final seasons before retiring in 2001. He also won the World Championship gold medal two times (1991, 1992) as well as the Olympics gold medal once (1994).\n\nThe number 5 worn by Sven \"Tumba\" Johansson, who spent 16 seasons with Djurgården between 1950 and 1966. The number 11 worn by Jens Öhling, who spent 18 seasons with Djurgården between 1979 and 1997. His number was retired on 24 January 2002. The number 12 worn by Lars Björn, who spent 18 seasons with Djurgården between 1949 and 1966. The number 16 worn by Nichlas Falk, who played a total of 16 seasons and 751 games with Djurgården between 1995 and 2011. Falk's number was retired on 12 October 2017. The number 22 worn by Håkan Södergren, who played 14 seasons with Djurgården between 1977 and 1991. The number 25 worn by Mikael Johansson, who joined the club in 1985. Johansson played seven seasons before joining EHC Kloten in the Swiss National League A. He returned to Djurgården in 1997 and played eight more seasons in the club. Johansson's number was retired on 15 February 2007. The number 27 worn by Thomas Eriksson, who joined Djurgården in 1976 and played four seasons before joining Philadelphia Flyers. He returned in 1981 and played two seasons before moving back to Philadelphia once more. In 1986, Eriksson returned to Djurgården and played an additional eight seasons.\n\nFour Djurgården players and two builders has been inducted into the IIHF Hall of Fame. Arne Grunander, longtime chairman of the club, was inducted in 1997. Grunander was also the chairman of Swedish Ice Hockey Association between 1978 and 1983. Arne Strömberg, head coach of the team between 1956 and 1960, and head coach of team Sweden between 1960 and 1971. Forward Sven \"Tumba\" Johansson was inducted the same year, and represented team Sweden in four Olympic Games and 14 IIHF World Championships. He played a total of 245 games and scored 186 goals for the national team, which makes him team Sweden's scoring leader of all time. Defenceman Lars Björn was inducted in 1998, representing Sweden in three Olympic Games and 9 World Championships. He played a total of 217 games for the national team. Defenceman Roland Stoltz was inducted in 1999, representing team Sweden in three Olympic Games and 12 World Championships. He played a total of 218 games for the national team. Forward Kent Nilsson was inducted in 2006. He joined Djurgården in 1973 and played for the team during three seasons. After 11 seasons in North America and a short stint in Italy and Switzerland, Nilsson returned to Djurgården for one season in 1988, winning the Swedish championship. He had another stint in Switzerland before playing his last and fifth season in Djurgården in 1992. Nilsson represented team Sweden in 94 games.\n\nThese are the top-ten point-scorers of Djurgårdens IF since the 1975–76 season, which is the first Elitserien season. Figures are updated after each completed season.\n\"Note: Pos = Position; GP = Games Played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; P/G = Points per game; = current Djurgårdens IF player\"\n\n\nCoach of the Year\n\nGuldhjälmen\n\nGuldpucken\nHåkan Loob Trophy\n\nHonken Trophy\n\nRinkens riddare\n\nRookie of the Year\n\nSwedish junior player of the year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817087", "title": "Djurgårdens IF Fotboll", "text": "Djurgårdens IF Fotboll\n\nDjurgårdens IF Fotbollsförening – commonly known as Djurgårdens IF, Djurgården Fotboll (official name), Djurgården (), and (especially locally) Djurgår'n (), Dif or DIF – is the association football department of Djurgårdens IF. Founded 1891 on the island Djurgården, the club's home ground is Tele2 Arena, situated in the Johanneshov district of Stockholm. \n\nCompeting in the highest Swedish tier, Allsvenskan, the club has won the league twelve times and the cup five times. The league titles have mainly been won during three separate eras. The first period was the 1910s, when they won four league titles. The second era occurred in the 1950s and 60s, when Djurgården also won the league four times. The most recent era was the first half of the 00s when they won both the league and the cup three times. \n\nFans of the club, called \"djurgårdare\", are found all over Stockholm and Sweden. However, Östermalm, where Djurgården's former home ground Stadion is situated, is by some considered the club's heartland. Djurgården is affiliated to the Stockholms Fotbollförbund.\n\nDjurgårdens IF was founded, primarily by John G. Jansson, on 12 March 1891 at a café in Alberget 4A in the island Djurgården. Most of the founding members were young working class men. The club originally focused on winter sports and athletics. The first real football field in Stockholm was created in 1896. Djurgårdens IF's football department was formed in 1899, with the help of former GAIS player Teodor Andersson. Djurgården played their first match in July 1899, a 1–2 loss against AIK.\n\nThe first real achievement was made in 1902 when the team finished second in the tournament Rosenska Pokalen. Just two years later, in 1904, the first Swedish Championship final of the club was played, ending in a defeat against Örgryte IS. The team finished second in three more finals before the first Championship victory came in 1912 after two draws in the final matches against Örgryte, and a replay which Djurgården won. The club won three more Swedish Championships in the early years, in 1915 against Örgryte, 1917 against AIK and 1920 against IK Sleipner. However, DIF never managed to win Svenska Serien, the top Swedish league of the period, before the club's first great era ended. Between 1911 and 1935, Tranebergs Idrottsplats was the homeground for Djurgården. For the 1912 Summer Olympics, Stockholms Stadion was built. It became Djurgården's permanent home arena in 1936.\n\nThe club did not qualify for the first season of Allsvenskan, and only reached that league twice between 1924 and 1944, being directly relegated back down to Division 2 both times. The club did also play three seasons in the then third highest league, Division 3, between 1929 and 1932. From 1944 on, the club became a stable Allsvenskan club. In 1951, the team became runners-up in Svenska Cupen after Malmö FF; this was the team's first Cup final.\n\nThe second great era took place in the 1950s and 1960s, winning Allsvenskan four times during the period. Djurgården's fifth Swedish championships, and first Allsvenskan championship, was taken in the 1954–55 season under the lead of Frank Soo. In the 1955–56 season, Djurgården became the first Swedish team to enter the European Cup. Beating Gwardia Warszawa in the first round, Djurgården advanced to quarter finals against Scottish Hibernian that they lost by 1–4 over two matches.\n\nIn 1959, both the football team and Djurgårdens IF's hockey team won their respective Swedish Championships of Sweden's two most popular sports, a remarkable happening. The 1959 title was secured on Råsunda Stadium, in front of 48,894 people, marking a record attendance for Djurgården, with a team of Sven Tumba, Birger Eklund, Lars Broström, John Eriksson, Hans Karlsson, Gösta Sandberg, Olle Hellström, Stig Gustafsson, Arne Arvidsson, Hans Mild and Sigge Parling.\n\nThe year after, in the 1960 season Djurgården finished 11th and was relegated to Division 2. The team only needed one year to return to Allsvenskan. In 1964 and 1966, Djurgården took its seventh and eight championships, with 1966 marking the end of the career of Gösta Sandberg. Sandberg played 322 league matches for the team 1951–66 and scored 77 goals. Gösta Sandberg is known as \"Mr Djurgården\" and was in 1991 named \"Djurgårdare of the century\". Sandberg also played for the club's Bandy and Ice Hockey section. He died on his way home after attending the Tvillingderbyt in 2006.\n\nIt's during this era that the nickname \"Järnkaminerna\" (\"The Iron Furnaces\") was established, due to the club's physical playing style. The ideal of a strong and uncomprimising Djurgården player might also be traced back to the club's working-class roots.\n\nThe 1970s saw no greater successes; however, Djurgården was steady in Allsvenskan and had three third-places and a final loss in the 1975 Svenska Cupen Final as the best results. Gary Williams became the first foreign player in the team in the 1977 season.\nThe 1980s was not a good decade for the club, being relegated from Allsvenskan in 1981, and losing two promotion play-offs, before making a one-year visit in the highest league in 1986, although DIF returned two years later, and stayed in Allsvenskan for five consecutive seasons, but had no greater success except losing the Championship final in 1988. In 1987, Djurgårdens IF Fotboll presented a 12 million SEK deficit and later transformed into an aktiebolag. Former England striker Teddy Sheringham had a brief spell at Djurgården early in his career, as a 19-year-old loanee in 1985.\n\nThe 1990s saw Djurgården being relegated from Allsvenskan no less than three times, and being promoted back two times. During this decade, the club suffered from great economical problems and was close to bankruptcy. The 1995 season started well, but ended badly; in the last home match of the 1995 Allsvenskan, a supporter, later named Terror-Tommy in media, came on pitch and kicked referee Anders Frisk.\n\nIn the middle of 1999 season, Zoran Lukic and Sören Åkeby took over the team and won the inaugural 2000 Superettan and finished 2nd as newly promoted in the 2001 Allsvenskan. With a team consisting of Stefan Rehn, Kim Källström, Andreas Johansson, and Andreas Isaksson, Djurgården secured its first title in 36 years in the last round of the 2002 Allsvenskan. The first half of the 2000s was a golden era for the club, with three championships (2002, 2003 and 2005) and three cup wins (2002, 2004 and 2005). This marked the end of the golden era for Djurgården, which ended on sixth place in 2006. The club was one of the main contenders for the league championship in 2007, which ultimately lead to a third place.\n\nThe results went downhill in 2008 and 2009; Djurgården ended up in 14th place in 2009, and had to play through a relegation playoff against Assyriska Föreningen to remain in Allsvenskan.\nIn the early 2010s, Djurgården was a mid-table Allsvenskan team finishing 7th to 11th between 2010 and 2014. When the newly appointed Director of sport Bo Andersson who led Djurgården to three titles in the early 21st century came back in 2014 he was forced to sell players such as Daniel Amartey (who became the most expensive defender ever sold by an Allsvenskan club for about 25 million SEK), Erton Fejzullahu, Christian Rubio Sivodedov and Simon Tibbling which stabilized the financials.\n\nIn January 2017, Djurgården sold the Kenyan international forward Michael Olunga for a club record fee of 40 million SEK which made the club's financial positions one of the best in the country. The transfer also made it possible to sign club legend Kim Källström and fellow former Swedish international Jonas Olsson. Both players, together with recently returned goalkeeper Andreas Isaksson, played important roles as Djurgården finished in third place in the 2017 allsvenskan, qualifying for the second qualifying round for the 2018–19 UEFA Europa League for the first time in ten years. After 13 years without a title Djurgården won the Svenska Cupen (Swedish Cup) on 10 May 2018 going through the Cup scoring 14 goals and not conceding a single goal.\n\nIn 2019 they won the league title for the first time in fourteen years (2005). They secured the title on the last day of the season after a 2-2 draw away from home against IFK Norrköping. This means they will try to qualify for champions league in the 20/21 season.\n\nDjurgården is one of the most supported clubs in Sweden, with most of its supporters living in Stockholm and the neighbouring suburbs. Traditionally the Östermalm district is considered to be the club's stronghold. No reliable research exists about the spread of Djurgården supporters, but a 2015 T-shirt campaign suggests that supporters are spread fairly evenly throughout the Stockholm area.\n\nAlthough Djurgården's supporters have been organizing themselves since the late 1940s, with the founding of DIF Supporters Club back in 1947, the 1970s saw singing supporter sections emerging which led to a new supporter club to be founded in 1981, named Blue Saints. The supporter club later changed its name in 1997 to Järnkaminerna (lit. \"the Iron Furnaces\") since the old name was perceived to be associated with violence. Järnkaminerna is Djurgården's official supporters' group with a membership of a few thousand.\n\nThe 2000s saw the emergence and creation of independent ultras groups. The oldest active ultra group, Ultra Caos Stockholm, formed in 2003 is largely influenced by southern European supporter culture.\n\nIn 2005 Fabriken Stockholm was formed and took over the role of creating tifos for the team's games from a former, now abolished group, Ultras Stockholm, founded in the late 1990s. In 2013 a larger and more open organization was started and took charge of the terrace choreography, headed by Ultra Caos Stockholm.\n\n\nDjurgården's archrival is AIK due to several reasons. AIK was founded February 15th 1891, while Djurgården was founded March 12th, just four weeks later, both in Stockholm City Centre. Because of this, games between the teams are called Tvillingderbyt (lit. \"Derby of the twins\") by the media, a name that hasn't caught on amongst supporters since they don't view themselves as twins and want no affiliation with one another.\n\nGames between the two teams are very popular and draw large attendances. The games can often be heated occasions given the fact that there is a lot of animosity between both sets of supporters and can produce great atmospheres. They are also historically the biggest and most successful clubs from Stockholm, with 21 titles won by AIK and 17 by Djurgården.\n\nHammarby is the other main rival, mostly because of the geographical proximity with Djurgården having its stronghold in the Östermalm district of Stockholm and Hammarby considering Södermalm, also in central Stockholm, its heartland. Since 2013, the two teams share the same home ground: Tele2 Arena.\n\n\nOn 22 May 2016, Djurgården announced a cooperation with Spårvägens FF as part of strengthening the presence of Djurgården in the southern suburbs of Stockholm as for example Skarpnäck, Bagarmossen and Skölndal. One of the aims of the cooperation is to make a natural way for talents in southern Stockholm to become a part of Djurgården. On 4 August 2016 a similar cooperation with Kista Sports Club was announced.\n\n\nThe home shirt is vertically striped in sky and dark blue. The shorts are usually dark blue but have some years been white.\n\nThe club's kit manufacturer Adidas presents a new kit every other (even) year. Apart from Adidas, Djurgården has the logos of the following companies visible on their shirt and shorts: Prioritet Finans, a financial-services company; Stadium, a sporting-goods retail chain; Erlandsson, a construction company; ABT Bolagen, another construction company; German automakers Volkswagen; NRC Group, a rail-infrastructure contractor; and league sponsors Svenska Spel, a government-owned gambling company (whose logo is on the right sleeve of the shirts of all Allsvenskan teams).\n\nDjurgården's primary stadium since 2013 is Tele2 Arena. The club's first match at the new arena was the 1–2 defeat to IFK Norrköping on 31 July 2013, with an attendance of 27,798 people, which also counts as Djurgården's record attendance on the arena.\n\nBetween 1936 and 2013, Djurgården's primary stadium was Stockholm Olympic Stadium, where the national league and cup games were played. The secondary stadium was Råsunda Stadium, where Stockholm derbies against AIK and Hammarby IF were played. The old Olympic Stadium, built in 1912, didn't fulfill UEFA's stadium requirements and therefore international cup games were also played at Råsunda. The club's record attendance at the Olympic Stadium is at least 21,995 against AIK on 16 August 1946. Djurgården's record attendance at Råsunda is 48,894 against IFK Göteborg on 11 October 1959.\n\nThe club's first stadium was Stockholms idrottspark where the club played from 1899 when the football department was founded until 1906 when the club moved to the newly built Östermalm Athletic Grounds. Djurgården did not stay long at Östermalm, in August 1910 the club signed a 25-year contract with the Stockholm City Council to dispose of an area in Traneberg, a district west of the inner city, to build a stadium. Tranebergs Idrottsplats was finished in October 1911 and inaugurated by Crown Prince Gustaf Adolf. The contract expired in 1935, and the City Council intended to build a residential area where the stadium was situated. Djurgården therefore moved to the Stockholm Olympic Stadium in 1936, where the club had played previously on several occasions since it was finished in 1912.\n\nThe later half of the 1940s saw a significant increase in attendances, which led the club to play some games at the larger, more modern, Råsunda Stadium. As Djurgården climbed in the league table in the beginning of the 1950s, all games were played at Råsunda. The end of the 1960s saw a return to the Olympic stadium, and soon all games were played there, with the exception of derbies.\n\nThe club's achievements in the early 2000s drew large attendances with led Djurgården to plan for a new stadium. The old 1912 Olympic Stadium also lacked modern facilities and individual seats. Along with political promises in 2006, Djurgården aimed for a rehaul of Stockholm Olympic Stadium and later an entirely new stadium at Östermalm Athletic Grounds. These plans were abandoned in December 2011 due to the building costs exceeding the club's financial capabilities. New stadium requirements from the Swedish Football Association also did not allow Djurgården to play at the Olympic Stadium after 2013. Thus, the club board made the decision to move to Tele2 Arena for the 2013 season.\n\nThe youth academy is located at Hjorthagens IP. In December 2012 an indoor arena named \"Johan Björkmans hall\" with one full-size turf, and two smaller turfs was built at Hjorthagens IP which enables football training all year around.\nIn 2007 Djurgården invested 65 million SEK (roughly 7 million Euro) for the upcoming five years in their youth academy. This project was described as a unique investment by a Swedish club by the former director of sports, Göran Aral. In 2015 the training ground for the first team was renovated which enabled the U-19 and U-17 teams to be training at Kaknäs IP and therefore come closer to the first team. The academy has produced players like Simon Tibbling, Emil Bergström and Christian Rubio Sivodedov.\n\n (captain)\n\nList criteria:\n\n\n\"As of 8 January 2019\"\n\n\"As of 6 March 2019\"\nIt is not known for sure who was the team's manager until 1922, though it is believed that Birger Möller was in charge during a part of the club's first decades.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Competitive matches only, includes appearances as substitute. Numbers in brackets indicate goals scored.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817088", "title": "John Giles", "text": "John Giles\n\nJohn Giles or Gyles may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817091", "title": "Petrodollar recycling", "text": "Petrodollar recycling\n\nPetrodollar recycling is the international spending or investment of a country's revenues from petroleum exports (\"petrodollars\"). It generally refers to the phenomenon of major petroleum-exporting nations, mainly the OPEC members plus Russia and Norway, earning more money from the export of crude oil than they could efficiently invest in their own economies. The resulting global interdependencies and financial flows, from oil producers back to oil consumers, can reach a scale of hundreds of billions of US dollars per year – including a wide range of transactions in a variety of currencies, some pegged to the US dollar and some not. These flows are heavily influenced by government-level decisions regarding international investment and aid, with important consequences for both global finance and petroleum politics. The phenomenon is most pronounced during periods when the price of oil is historically high. \n\nThe term petrodollar was coined in the early 1970s during the oil crisis, and the first major petrodollar surge (1974–1981) resulted in more financial complications than the second (2005–2014).\n\nIn August 2018, Venezuela declared that it would price its oil in Euros, Yuan and other currencies.\n\nEspecially during the years 1974–1981 and 2005–2014, oil exporters amassed large surpluses of \"petrodollars\" from historically expensive oil. (The word has been credited alternately to Egyptian-American economist Ibrahim Oweiss and to former US Secretary of Commerce Peter G. Peterson, both in 1973.) These petrodollar surpluses could be described as net US dollar-equivalents earned from the export of petroleum, in excess of the internal development needs of the exporting nations. The surpluses could not be efficiently invested in their own economies, due to small populations or being at early stages of industrialization; but the surpluses could be usefully invested in other nations, or spent on imports such as consumer products, construction supplies, and military equipment. Alternatively, global economic growth would have suffered if that money was withdrawn from the world economy, while the oil-exporting nations needed to be able to invest profitably to raise their long-term standards of living.\n\nWhile petrodollar recycling reduced the short-term recessionary impact of the 1973 oil crisis, it caused problems especially for oil-importing countries that were paying much higher prices for oil, and incurring long-term debts. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated that the foreign debts of 100 oil-importing developing countries increased by 150% between 1973 and 1977, complicated further by a worldwide shift to floating exchange rates. Johan Witteveen, the Managing Director of the IMF, said in 1974: \"The international monetary system is facing its most difficult period since the 1930s.\" The IMF administered a new lending program during 1974–1976 called the Oil Facility. Funded by oil-exporting nations and other lenders, it was available to nations suffering from acute problems with their balance of trade due to the rise in oil prices, notably including Italy and the UK as well as dozens of developing countries.\n\nFrom 1974 through 1981, the total current account surplus for all members of OPEC amounted to US$450 billion, without scaling-up for the subsequent decades of inflation. Ninety percent of this surplus was accumulated by the Arab countries of the Persian Gulf and Libya, with Iran also accumulating significant oil surpluses through 1978 before suffering the hardships of revolution, war and sanctions.\n\nLarge volumes of Arab petrodollars were invested directly in US Treasury securities and in other financial markets of the major industrial economies, often directed discreetly by government entities now known as sovereign wealth funds. Many billions of petrodollars were also invested through the major commercial banks of the US and Europe. In fact, the process contributed to the growth of the Eurodollar market as a less-regulated rival to US monetary markets. As the recessionary condition of the world economy made investment in corporations less attractive, bankers and well-financed governments lent much of the money directly to the governments of developing countries, especially in Latin America such as Brazil and Argentina as well as other major developing nations like Turkey. The 1973 oil crisis had created a vast dollar shortage in these countries; however, they still needed to finance their imports of oil and machinery. In early 1977, when Turkey stopped heating its prime minister's office, opposition leader Suleyman Demirel famously described the shortage as: \"Turkey is in need of 70 cents.\" As political journalist William Greider summarized the situation: \"Banks collected the deposits of revenue-rich OPEC governments and lent the money to developing nations so they could avoid bankruptcy.\" In subsequent decades, many of these developing nations found their accumulated debts to be unpayably large, concluding that it was a form of neocolonialism from which debt relief was the only escape.\n\nIn the 2005–2014 petrodollar surge, financial decision-makers were able to benefit somewhat from the lessons and experiences of the previous cycle. Developing economies generally stayed better balanced than they did in the 1970s; the world economy was less oil-intensive; and global inflation and interest rates were much better contained. Oil exporters opted to make most of their investments directly into a diverse array of global markets, and the recycling process was less dependent on intermediary channels such as international banks and the IMF.\n\nThanks to the historic oil price increases of 2003–2008, OPEC revenues approximated an unprecedented US$1 trillion per year in 2008 and 2011–2014. Beyond the OPEC countries, substantial surpluses also accrued to Russia and Norway, and sovereign wealth funds worldwide amassed US$7 trillion by 2014–2015. Some oil exporters were unable to reap the full benefits, as the national economies of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria and Venezuela all suffered from multi-year political obstacles associated with what economists call the \"resource curse\". Most of the other large exporters accumulated enough financial reserves to cushion the shock when oil prices and petrodollar surpluses fell sharply again from an oil supply glut in 2014–2017.\n\nOil-exporting countries have used part of their petrodollar surpluses to fund foreign aid programs, as a prominent example of so-called \"checkbook diplomacy\" or \"petro-Islam\". The Kuwait Fund was an early leader since 1961, and certain Arab nations became some of the largest donors in the years since 1974, including through the IMF and the OPEC Fund for International Development. Oil exporters have also aided poorer nations indirectly through the personal remittances sent home by tens of millions of foreign workers in the Middle East, although their working conditions are generally harsh. Even more controversially, several oil exporters have been major financial supporters of armed groups challenging the governments of other countries.\n\nHigh-priced oil allowed the USSR to support the struggling economies of the Soviet bloc during the 1974–1981 petrodollar surge, and the loss of income during the 1980s oil glut contributed to the bloc's collapse in 1989. During the 2005–2014 petrodollar surge, OPEC member Venezuela played a similar role supporting Cuba and other regional allies, before the 2014–2017 oil downturn brought Venezuela to its own economic crisis.\n\nThe term petrodollar warfare refers to the alleged motivation of US military offensives as preserving by force the status of the United States dollar as the world's dominant reserve currency and as the currency in which oil is priced. The term was coined by William R. Clark, who has written a book with the same title. The phrase \"oil currency war\" is sometimes used with the same meaning.\n\nThe United States dollar remains \"de facto\" world currency. Accordingly, almost all oil sales throughout the world are denominated in United States dollars (USD). Because most countries rely on oil imports, they are forced to maintain large stockpiles of dollars in order to continue imports. This creates a consistent demand for USDs and ostensibly supports the USD's value, regardless of economic conditions in the United States.\n\nAccording to proponents of the petrodollar warfare hypothesis, this in turn allegedly allows the US government to gain revenues through seignorage and by issuing bonds at lower interest rates than supposedly they otherwise would be able to. As a result, the U.S. government, according to this theory, can run higher budget deficits at a more sustainable level than most other countries can. The theory points out that a stronger USD also means that goods imported into the United States are relatively cheap (although the country's exports become relatively more expensive for the rest of the world).\n\nAnother component of the hypothesis is that the price of petroleum is more stable in the U.S. than anywhere else since importers do not need to worry about exchange rate fluctuations. Since the U.S. imports a great deal of oil, its markets are heavily reliant on oil and its derivative products (jet fuel, diesel fuel, gasoline, etc.) for their energy needs. As the price of oil can be an important political factor, U.S. administrations are quite sensitive to the price of oil.\n\nPolitical competitors of the United States therefore have some interest in seeing oil denominated in euros or other currencies. The EU could also theoretically accrue the same benefits if the euro replaced the dollar.\n\nThe petrodollar system originated in the early 1970s in the wake of the Bretton Woods collapse. President Richard Nixon and his Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, feared that the abandonment of the international gold standard under the Bretton Woods arrangement (combined with a growing US trade deficit, and massive debt associated with the ongoing Vietnam War) would cause a decline in the relative global demand of the U.S. dollar. In a series of meetings, the United States — represented by then U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger — and the Saudi royal family made an agreement. The United States would offer military protection for Saudi Arabia's oil fields, and in return the Saudis would price their oil sales exclusively in United States dollars (in other words, the Saudis were to refuse all other currencies, except the U.S. dollar, as payment for their oil exports).\n\nBy 1975, all of the oil-producing nations of OPEC had agreed to price their oil in dollars and to invest surplus oil proceeds in U.S. government debt securities in exchange for similar offers by the U.S.\n\nIn 2000, Iraq converted all its oil transactions under the Oil for Food program to euros, even though the move was deemed by analysts to \"fly in the face of financial logic\", since it meant that Iraq would earn less interest on its oil revenues, which were held in a UN-monitored escrow account in New York. Also, the switch would create \"cumbersome new administrative processes\" because Baghdad decided to keep also its existing deposits in dollars, which meant that the oil-for-food program would maintain two accounts, one in dollars and one in euros.\n\nSeveral commentators writing contemporaneously with the buildup to the invasion linked Iraq's Nov 2000 re-denomination of oil from USD to euros and the possibility of more widespread adoption of the euro as an oil pricing standard to the risk that that would place on the post-Bretton Woods use of the USD as the international reserve currency and the impact that that would have on the US economy, and theorised that one of the fundamental purposes for war in Iraq would be to force Iraq to revert to pricing its oil in USD.\n\nAfter the U.S. invaded Iraq in 2003, Iraq returned the denomination of its oil sales to the US dollar, despite the greenback's then-fall in value.\n\nThe Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran ostensibly takes this theory as fact. As retaliation to this policy, which is seen by Tehran as \"neoimperialism\", Iran made an effort to create its own bourse, which started selling oil in gold, euros, dollars, and Japanese yen. In mid-2006 Venezuela indicated \"support\" of Iran's decision to offer global oil trade in the euro currency. Muammar Gaddafi of Libya had tried to implement the gold-for-oil plan in 2011 and the introduction of a Libyan gold dinar.\n\nIn 2005, William Roberts Clark, Professor and Faculty Associate, Political Science Department, Center for Political Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, published a work which claimed that a \"petrodollar warfare\" was under way between mainly the euro and the United States dollar waged in the field of world petroleum trade.\n\nOver the years, multiple scholars expressed the view that the Iraq War was conducted to re-assert the dollar hegemony in the wake of Saddam Hussein's attempts to switch from petrodollar in the oil trade and to sell Iraqi oil in exchange for other currencies or commodities.\n\nThese images illustrate the diversity of major petrodollar recycling activities, in roughly chronological order:\n\n"}
{"id": "1817093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817093", "title": "Charlotte Country Day School", "text": "Charlotte Country Day School\n\nCharlotte Country Day School is a private, secular school in Charlotte, North Carolina, with classes in grades Kindergarten-12. A junior kindergarten program is also offered. Charlotte Country Day is located on two campuses, which cover a combined . Cannon Campus is the main campus and home to the Lower School (grades JK-4) and the Upper School (grades 9-12), as well as administrative offices. Bissell Campus, located on Green Rea Road, is designed specifically for the education and development of Middle School (grades 5-8) students.\n\nFounded in 1941 by Dr. Thomas Burton, the school faced initial problems in securing a permanent location large enough to house its student body; they were eventually solved. By July 1944, the school was able to buy a 2,000-volume library from the Aiken School in South Carolina. This acquisition qualified Country Day for accreditation under the guidelines of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. In September 1960, the school began holding classes on the current site of Cannon Campus. In 1979, Carmel Academy partnered with Country Day, merging with CCDS soon thereafter, and its former campus became the Bissell Campus. Grades 5 through 8 are taught at this site. Country Day became an International Baccalaureate World School in August 1992.\n\nCannon Campus for grades JK-4 and 9-12 has 15 buildings, including a full-service dining hall, two libraries, a 400-seat theater, two reading gardens, and multiple computer labs.\n\nThe newest building is the Hance Fine Arts Center, completed in August 2004.\n\nThe campus houses the Bruton Smith Athletic Center.\n\nThe Cannon campus was newly renovated at the end of 2018. The Purdy Math and Science building is the newest addition to the Cannon campus.\n\nBissell Campus, where CCDS students in grades 5-8 attend classes, underwent extensive renovations in 2009. The Dowd Science Building was completed, which added eight science lecture/lab classrooms and two general purpose classrooms. The old science building was renovated to create six foreign language classrooms. Grounds enhancements included a new entryway and fencing, a new front courtyard, and new tennis courts and practice fields.\nElsewhere on Bissell Campus, the Sklut Center has three art rooms, the cafeteria, and the general music room. A separate building is dedicated entirely to the natural sciences.\n\nHead of School: Mark E. Reed \nHead of Upper School: Matthew Less \nHead of Middle School: Warren Sepkowitz\nHead of Lower School: Bill Mulcahy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817094", "title": "Mark Ramprakash", "text": "Mark Ramprakash\n\nMark Ravin Ramprakash (born 5 September 1969) is an English former cricketer. A right-handed batsman, he initially made his name playing for Middlesex, and was selected for England aged 21. A gifted, and one of the heaviest-scoring English batsman of his generation at county level, he rarely performed to his full potential during a long but intermittent international career. He became a particularly prolific run scorer when he moved to Surrey in 2001, averaging over 100 runs per innings in two successive seasons (2006 & 2007). He is one of only 25 players in the history of the sport to have scored 100 first-class centuries.\n\nIn November 2012, he was announced as the batting coach for the England Lions in India. In January 2013 he was appointed as batting coach for Middlesex, on a two-year contract. In November 2014 he was appointed as England's batting coach.\n\nMark Ramprakash was born in Bushey, Hertfordshire, and is of Indo-Guyanese and English descent. His father, born in British Guiana, was Indo-Guyanese and his mother was English. He attended Gayton High School (now Harrow High School), and then Harrow Weald Sixth Form College. His first local club was Bessborough Cricket Club in Headstone Lane where he showed early promise as a fast bowler before concentrating on his batting. He played his first match for Middlesex aged just 17, scoring 63 not out against Yorkshire, and top-scoring with 71 in his second match against Essex at Chelmsford (he was still a sixth-form student at the time). He scored his maiden first-class century at Headingley against Yorkshire in 1989, and captained the England U-19 team. He came to national prominence when, at the age of 18, he won the man-of-the match award in the 1988 NatWest Trophy Final after his innings of 56 helped Middlesex beat Worcestershire.\n\nRamprakash at a young age had to choose between playing football for Watford FC and continuing his playing career in cricket. His choice was made easier after Watford moved to London Colney training centre shared with Arsenal and after losing 7–0 he chose to continue with cricket.\n\nDuring his early days as a professional cricketer, Ramprakash had a reputation as something of a mercurial and stormy character. Nicknamed \"Bloodaxe\" by Middlesex team-mates for his short temper, Ramprakash's younger days contrasted with the mellowness of his thirties. However, at times he continued to display the fiery temper, which has been compared to Mount Vesuvius, that many say prevented him from succeeding at international level.\n\nDespite being asked to keep his aggression at bay by teammates, including Graham Gooch and Adam Hollioake he often struggled to control it, resulting in verbal attacks and famous dressing room tantrums, one of the most well-known being the demolition of the showers at The Oval.\n\nRamprakash was selected for his first Test match for England against the West Indies at Headingley in 1991. This was the same game in which Graeme Hick made his England Test debut, and like Hick, he struggled to impress, producing a series of scores in the 20s. He was dropped in 1992 after a number of poor performances. However, his consistent heavy scoring in county cricket meant that he was always on the fringes of selection.\n\nHe was recalled to the England team for the final Test of the 1993 Ashes series. With Australia already 4–0 up it was a dead rubber, but he produced his first substantial innings for England by scoring 64 to help the team grab a consolation victory. This booked him a place on the subsequent tour of the West Indies. However, another string of low scores meant he was dropped and out of the selectors' plans. Ramprakash was not selected in the touring party for the 1994–95 Ashes series, but was chosen as vice-captain for the England A tour to India. However, an injury to Graeme Hick meant that he was flown out to play in the final Ashes Test, scoring a useful 72. He was in and out of the England team over the next few years, never assured of selection but still scoring very heavily for Middlesex.\n\nA breakthrough of sorts came in the 1997–98 Test series against the West Indies when he scored 154 in the fifth Test in Barbados. It was his first Test century and it earned him regular selection for the England team for the next few years. While he scored a number of fifties against various teams (notably Australia), he only added one more century to his tally – 133 against Australia at The Oval in the 2001 Ashes series. He was not picked again after England's tour of New Zealand in March 2002.\n\nDuring the build-up to the final Ashes Test of 2009, with the series poised at 1–1, Ramprakash was widely touted in the press as a possible choice to improve the struggling England middle order, with a number of pundits, including Alec Stewart, suggesting his selection.\nHowever, Jonathan Trott was selected instead, going on to score a Test century on debut.\n\nIn 2001, thoroughly disillusioned with the organisation at Middlesex, who were by then playing second division-level cricket, he joined London rivals Surrey. His form improved markedly as a result. In the 2003 season, he became the first player to have scored a century against all 18 county teams, and completed the set with a century against his former county Middlesex. Only Carl Hooper and Chris Adams have since achieved this feat.\n\nRamprakash became the first man to captain both Middlesex and Surrey when he stood in for the injured Mark Butcher at the start of the 2005 English cricket season. Butcher did not recover until the middle of August, and Ramprakash remained captain for most of the season. Ramprakash's move to Surrey seemed to backfire in 2005 when Surrey were relegated after a poor season. However, in their final Championship game, against Middlesex, who were also in danger of relegation themselves, Ramprakash gained consolation by hitting 252, sharing a Surrey record for a fifth-wicket partnership of 318 with Azhar Mahmood as Surrey made 686 for five declared, and duly won by an innings and 39 runs.\n\nIn 2006, Ramprakash, relieved of the unwanted burden of captaincy, displayed good form, making a career-best 292 against Gloucestershire in May, then improving that still further with 301 not out against Northamptonshire in early August. Later that month against Worcestershire he made 196 in the first innings, and in the process passed 2,000 runs in first-class cricket for the summer in only his 20th innings (a record). Ramprakash, the leading run scorer in 2006, was the first man to score 2,000 runs in a season since the Australian Mike Hussey in 2001, and the first Englishman to do it since Ramprakash himself back in 1995. He also became the first man to score over 150 runs in an innings in five consecutive matches. He ended with 2,278 runs at an average of 103.54, only the sixth man to average over one hundred over eight or more completed first-class innings in an English season. Surrey gained promotion back into the first division. His form led some commentators to say that the England selectors should consider him for that winter's Ashes tour: Mike Selvey called him \"the best technician of his generation with a good record in trying circumstances in Australia\" and said that he should be considered as a possible replacement for Marcus Trescothick.\nHe was not, however, chosen. His 2006 form also won him the Professional Cricketers' Association Player of the Year Award and selection as one of five Wisden Cricketers of the Year.\n\nHis fine form continued in 2007, and Ramprakash was once again the most prolific batsman in county cricket. He finished the season with 2,026 first-class runs, including ten centuries, at an average of 101.30, becoming the only man to average over 100 in two consecutive English seasons. His twin hundreds in the final game of the season, against Lancashire, are widely said to have ended Lancashire's hopes of winning the championship. His form and professionalism led to further remarks that he should be recalled to the England side. Ramprakash himself stated that whilst he found this attention flattering, he had more or less abandoned any hope of being recalled to the England team, given the present selection policy targeted towards youth.\n\nIn 2008, Ramprakash scored a century in his first innings of the season – his third consecutive first-class century, all against Lancashire – and another (his 99th) two matches later. He finally scored his 100th 100 against Yorkshire at Headingley on 2 August 2008, becoming only the 25th player to reach this mark. It mirrored his very first century, also scored at Headingley. He hit 200 not out vs Somerset to get his 101st first-class hundred.\n\nHe was also in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons, when the England and Wales Cricket Board banned him for two County Championship matches, for losing his famous temper and repeatedly swearing at an umpire.\n\nIn 2009, there was, yet again, much media speculation that Ramprakash should receive an England call up for the final Test match of the 2009 Ashes series. He averaged 90 for Surrey in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Ramprakash again emerged as county cricket's leading run-getter – albeit in the second division. After 16 matches and 28 innings he ended the season with 1595 runs at an average of 61.34, including 5 hundreds with a highest score of 248.\n\nIn 2011, Ramprakash was suspended by Surrey for their CB40 game with Northants after he showed \"serious dissent\" to umpires.\n\nIn 2012, Ramprakash was picked to captain MCC in their match against Lancashire opening the 2012 English cricket season.\n\nBy the time of his retirement as a cricketer from all forms of the game on 4 July 2012 he had scored 114 hundreds, 16th in the all-time list of first-class century-makers, just three behind Sir Donald Bradman's 117.\n\nIn an article in the \"Daily Telegraph\" marking his retirement, entitled \"Mark Ramprakash: A champion of elegance in helmet and pads\", Jim White wrote \"...with him will pass into history one of the most beautiful and stylish sights ever seen on a sporting field: Ramprakash taking a long pace forward out of the crease and driving a cricket ball boundary-wards... When he addressed the ball, with everything aligned, everything in the right place, he produced an image which can only be described as exquisite.\"\n\nRamprakash was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2013 New Year Honours for services to sport.\n\nIn December 2012 he joined Middlesex as their new batting coach and it was reported at the time that he relished the opportunity of working with the players.\n\nIn 2013 Middlesex finished 5th in division one, earning 32 batting points in the process. This was the second lowest amount of batting points in the division. Middlesex came third in their 40 over competition group, narrowly missing out on a place in the semi-finals. They also missed out on a place in the T20 quarter finals.\n\nIn 2014 Middlesex finished 7th in division one and received 35 batting points, an improvement on the previous season. Middlesex again failed to qualify for the knock stages of the T20 competition and finished bottom of their T20 group.\n\nIn May 2014 it was reported that Ramprakash was interested in replacing Graham Gooch as England's batting coach and, after speculation, his appointment was announced in November 2014.\n\nThe Guardian's Mike Selvey suggested that Ramprakash's own indifferent experience at international level will be an asset in coaching England's batsmen, with Nick Knight adding that Ramprakash \"can empathise\" with England players.\n\nThe tour with Ramprakash in charge of batting was the seven match ODI series with Sri Lanka. England did not pass 300 once in the series, with their highest score being 292. England lost the series 5–2. England then toured Australia for a tri-series with India and Australia. England went past 300 in the fourth game of the series against Australia. They reached the final after beating India twice, but lost the final to Australia, being dismissed for 166.\n\nEngland had a poor World Cup campaign and failed to qualify from the group stage. England were bowled out for just 123 in the second game against New Zealand. They posted 303 against Scotland to post their biggest score of the tournament, and then bettered this by scoring 309 against Sri Lanka, although they lost by nine wickets. They were knocked out of the tournament after losing to Bangladesh.\n\nRamprakash's first Test tour as England batting coach came against West Indies. England scored 399 in the first innings of the first match and 333–7 in the second innings but were unable to force a result as the match ended in a draw. They continued to impress with the bat as they won the next Test, scoring 464 and 144–1. However, they lost the last match as the collapsed in the second innings to 123 all out.\n\nEngland's batsmen played in a more positive manner against New Zealand, with Ben Stokes scoring the fastest ever century at Lords in England's first Test victory. However, they lost the second Test and drew the series. England were impressive with the bat in the ODI series, posting scores of 350, 365 and 408 in the five match series. England went on to win the series 3–2. Joe Root and Eoin Morgan particularly impressed. England also won the only T20 match between the sides. Throughout all three series England were praised for their new aggressive brand of cricket.\n\nRamprakash remained as England batting coach for the Ashes. In the first Test England's batsmen performed well with Joe Root scoring a century as England won the first game. However, in the second Test England collapsed in their second innings and suffered a heavy defeat. England won the third Test by eight wickets, with Ian Bell scoring half centuries in both innings. Root made his second hundred of the series in the fourth Test as England won by an innings and 78 runs. In the final match of the series, England again collapsed, this time to 149 as Australia secured an innings victory. Although England won the series 3–2, Joe Root was the only England batsman to score a century and England only posted over 400 once. England's batting was generally good in the ODI series against Australia, as they went past 300 twice, with James Taylor and Eoin Morgan impressing.\n\nEngland had a mixed performance with the bat in the Tests series against Pakistan. Alastair Cook scored a magnificent 264 in first Test to help England to a draw in a match they nearly won, while Joe Root also passed 70 three times in the series, despite not scoring a century. England suffered a collapse in the final game of the series, making just 156. Jos Buttler, Alex Hales and Jason Roy all made centuries in the ODI series, where England's batting helped them to a 3–1 win. Squad players James Vince and Sam Billings impressed in the T20I series, as England continued to improve their aggressive batting.\n\nEngland performed well with the bat in the second Test against South Africa, as they made 629–6. Ben Stokes and Jonny Bairstow batted superbly together, putting on 399 in a partnership, as Bairstow made 150 and Stokes 258. England passed 300 five times in the series in their seven innings. England scored 399 in the first ODI, with Jos Buttler scoring a century. Joe Root scored back to back tons in the third and fourth games of the series, and Alex Hales's constancy was also a positive for England. England were less impressive with the bat in their T20Is, with both targets being chased down by South Africa.\n\nIn the second T20I , England chased down South Africa's target of 229, largely thanks to impressive innings from Jason Roy and Joe Root. Jos Buttler also help England post 171 against Sri Lanka to help England reach the final. They eventually finished as runners-up in the competition.\n\nEngland's top order batsmen did not perform consistently well against Sri Lanka, but centuries from Jonny Bairstow and Moeen Ali in the first and second Test respectively saw England win the series 2–0, with Alastair Cook and Alex Hales also performing well at the top of the order, as England passed 400 twice in five innings. In the ODI series, Jason Roy scored two centuries and Alex Hales also scored a century as England passed 300 twice to win the series 3–0, which included a record breaking partnership from Hales and Roy in the third ODI. England won the only T20I between the sides, with Jos Buttler impressing with the bat.\n\nIn the Test series against Pakistan, England failed to pass 300 in the first Test as they suffered a defeat. However, Joe Root scored his highest ever score in the second Test as England posted 589–8 and 173–1 to win by 330 runs. Moeen Ali and Jonny Bairstow performed well with the bat in the final two Tests, and the series finished 2–2. In the ODI series, England started the series in good from with the bat, with Joe Root performing consistently well. In the third ODI, England set a new world record score, making 444–3, and Alex Hales recorded the highest score from an Englishman, while Jos Buttler scored the fastest ever half-century by and Englishman. England won the series 4–1, but lost the only T20I between the two sides after struggling with the bat.\n\nEngland won the first ODI against Bangladesh after scoring 308, with Ben Stokes scoring a century. Jos Buttler made 50 in the second game, which England lost, but England won the final game with Sam Billings and Ben Duckett making half centuries. In the Test series, England did not go past 300 once. They won the first Test, with Ben Stokes making 85. However, they lost the second Test after a second innings collapsed, which saw them bowled out for 164 as the series finished 1–1.\n\nIn the series against India, England had a mixed time with the bat. Alastair Cook, Joe Root, Ben Stokes and Moeen Ali all scored hundreds in the first Test which ended in a draw. Keaton Jennings scored a hundred on his debut in the fourth Test, and Moeen Ali scored another century in the final game of the series, although both efforts were in a losing cause. England passed 400 three times in the series, but were also dismissed for below 250 four times as they lost the series 4–0.\n\nEngland batted well in the ODI series against India, posting over 300 in all three matches. Eoin Morgan was the only player to score a century in the series for England, which made in the second ODI. England lost the first two ODIs and although they won the final match, they lost the series 2–1. England batted well in the first T20I, with Eoin Morgan making 51 as England won by seven wickets. After losing the second game, England collapsed to 127 in the third T20I as England lost the series 2–1.\n\nEngland performed well with the bat in the series against the West Indies. England made 296–6 in the first match against the West Indies, before making 226–6, which included an unbeaten 90 from Joe Root. In the final game of the series, England made 328, with Alex Hales and Joe Root making tons, as England won the series 3–0.\n\nIn July 2019, Ramprakash was appointed as the head coach of the Edinburgh Rocks for the inaugural edition of the Euro T20 Slam cricket tournament.\n\nIn 2006, Ramprakash and Karen Hardy won the BBC's \"Strictly Come Dancing\", beating Matt Dawson, former England rugby player, and Lilia Kopylova in the final. Ramprakash was the second consecutive cricketer to win the show, following former England team mate Darren Gough. In a special edition of \"Strictly Come Dancing\" for Sport Relief on 14 March 2008, Ramprakash and partner Kara Tointon were the winners after performing a samba. In 2008, he appeared on a special \"Strictly Come Dancing\" episode of The Weakest Link, being the fifth voted off.\n\nRamprakash was on the books of Watford F.C. as a schoolboy, but gave up the game to concentrate on cricket. He was a P.E. teacher at St. Martin's School, Northwood in 2003, teaching football for a brief period as a consideration for a job after cricket. He is a supporter of Arsenal Football Club and plays for the Arsenal Ex-Pros and Celebrities side.\n\nOn 9 March 2008 Ramprakash appeared on the CBBC show \"Hider in the House\", setting up dad Ian Smeeton, with Ian's wife Wendy, two children Will and Pippa Smeeton, and their friend Dougy in Cambridge. He completed all his challenges.\n\nRamprakash is an ambassador for the British Asian Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817097", "title": "Christian Radich", "text": "Christian Radich\n\nChristian Radich is a Norwegian full-rigged ship, named after a Norwegian shipowner. The vessel was built at Framnæs shipyard in Sandefjord, Norway, and was delivered on 17 June 1937. The owner was The Christian Radich Sail Training Foundation established by a grant from an officer of that name.\n\nThe vessel is a full-rigged steel hull, 62.5 m long, with an overall length of 73 m including the bowsprit and a maximum width of 9.7 m. She has a draught of about 4.7 meters and a displacement at full load of 1050 tons. Under engine power, \"Christian Radich\" reaches a top speed of 10 knots, while she can make up to 14 knots under sail. The crew is 18 altogether. She can accommodate 88 passengers.\n\nThe class society of the vessel is Det Norske Veritas, DNV, and she is built to +1A1, E0.\n\n\"Christian Radich\" is well known through the international release in 1958 of the Cinemiracle widescreen movie \"Windjammer\". \"Christian Radich\" sailed to the United States in 1976 as part of the Bicentennial Celebration, and partook in the Operation Sail parade in New York Harbor on 4 July 1976. The ship also appeared as herself in the 1970s BBC TV series The Onedin Line, as one of James Onedin's ships.\n\nThe vessel was built for training sailors for the Norwegian merchant navy, and did so for many years. Since 1999 the ship has been on the charter market as well as sailing with paying trainees to foreign ports on summer trips, participating in the Cutty Sark Tall Ships' Race and large sail events in European ports. She won on corrected time in both Class A and overall tall ship in 2007, and was the only class A vessel that crossed the finish line.\n\n\"Christian Radich\" won the first race of the Tall Ships Race 2010 in Class A, from Antwerp to Skagen in Denmark, a distance of just under 2 days with an impressive average speed of 10.2 knots, with the corrected time of 1 day 4 hours 29 minutes and 44 seconds, and won the overall race 2010, making this her 5th victory in the Tall ships Race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817105", "title": "CKOI-FM", "text": "CKOI-FM\n\nCKOI-FM is a French-language Canadian radio station located in Montreal, Quebec, airing a Contemporary Hits radio format.\n\nOwned and operated by Cogeco, CKOI-FM broadcasts on 96.9 MHz with its transmitter on Mount Royal with an effective radiated power (ERP) of 148,000 watts (Class C1) using an omnidirectional antenna. It was one of the few Montreal FM stations not to use the Mount Royal broadcasting tower, until it moved there in late 2018. It is one of North America's highest-powered FM stations. Its studios are located at Place Bonaventure.\n\nCKVL-FM, the station's original call letters, was founded by Jack Tietolman and Corey Thomson and probably went on the air at some point between 1947 and 1957. Sources disagree on the date, and at least seven different years (including three post-1957 ones) have been reported as the station's first air date. The confusion is increased by the fact that there is no known report suggesting that the station went silent for any noticeable period of time after getting on the air, despite this phenomenon being relatively common among 1950s FM stations. In any case, the Canadian Communication Foundation reports the station's first signed on in 1947 and that CKVL-FM was confirmed as being on the air in 1957.\n\nThe station was originally a full-time simulcast of AM sister station 850 CKVL. As such, the station was bilingual (French/English), with the majority of programming being in French.\n\nBy 1962, CKVL-FM increased its power from 10,000 watts to 307,000 watts omnidirectional from the rooftop of the CIBC Tower in Downtown Montreal. It is often believed that this unusual high power was granted as the result of a clerical error by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), but that government organization did not exist at the time as radio was still regulated by the CRTC's predecessor, the Board of Broadcast Governors. Regulations limiting effective radiated power to 100,000 watts on FM, which came into force that same year, did not apply to stations which had already received approval for a higher power.\n\nThe simulcast of CKVL ended in 1970, with CKVL-FM launching an automated oldies format, calling itself \"VL-FM.\" The station played French-language Top 40 hits of the 1950s and ‘60s, as well as remakes of English-language hits translated into French, as well as a few original English-language songs. There were no DJs.\n\nOn December 6, 1976, CKVL-FM became CKOI-FM, and the station's format was changed to progressive rock, with a full-time DJ staff. It evolved into a largely new wave based format in 1979 and moved to a rock-leaning contemporary hit radio format in 1980.\n\nThe Fall 1991 Bureau of Broadcast Measurement ratings were a defining moment for the station, as it found itself in first place in Montreal with over a million listeners in full coverage. It was the first time that an FM station finished in first place in the Fall ratings, which are the most important for the radio industry as they are used to determine prices charged for advertising. CKOI-FM would have over a million listeners in 32 consecutive books (excluding Summer ratings starting in 2001 which were only done for the central area of the market), from Fall 1991 to Fall 2002 inclusively. (The station had already managed to get a million listeners on a few occasions during Summer ratings before 1991.) The station's best-ever results under the old diary system were obtained in the Spring 1995 ratings, in which CKOI-FM got 1,341,300 listeners. By comparison, 730 CKAC, which was had been Montreal's usual #1 station, had 775,500 listeners.\n\nCKOI-FM, along with sister station CKVL, was sold in 1992 by its founder Jack Tietolman to Metromedia CMR, a company owned by Pierre Arcand and Pierre Béland. Both stations would be sold again in 2001, this time to Corus Entertainment.\n\nOn January 1, 2002, the station's city of licence became Montreal. Until then, it had officially been Verdun. But as a result of a forced municipal merger, the City of Verdun became a borough of Montreal.\n\nCKOI-FM long had the highest power output of any radio station in Canada, and the second highest power in North America, only exceeded by 93.7 WBCT in Grand Rapids, Michigan which operates with 320,000 watts. Unlike other North American superpower FM stations which have lowered their power since the 1990s, CKOI-FM always protected its 307,000-watt signal. As a result, when Industry Canada advised the station in 2004 that it was not compliant with updated Code 6 safety regulations (which deal with acceptable levels of radiation), owner Corus Entertainment invested in making the transmitter compliant, instead of taking the \"easy way\" out, which would have been in this specific case to reduce power to \"only\" 122,800 watts.\n\nThe station's studios were moved for the first time ever in July 2006, after decades at 211 Gordon Avenue in Verdun. The new studios are located at Place Bonaventure in Downtown Montreal.\n\nOn April 30, 2010, Cogeco announced it would purchase Corus Quebec's radio stations, including CKOI-FM, for $80 million, as Corus's Quebec stations were less profitable than its stations in other parts of Canada. On December 17, 2010, the CRTC approved the sale of most of Corus' radio stations in Quebec, including CKOI-FM, to Cogeco.\n\nOn November 24, 2011, the CRTC determined that CKOI-FM had abusively used musical montages of English-language songs in order to get around the French-language music quotas, and imposed a condition of licence on the station limiting the broadcasting of montages to 10 percent of the broadcast week.\n\nIn 2016, Cogeco applied to the CRTC for permission to move the transmission site to Mount Royal, as space had become available there after the digital TV transition. Moreover, the move would allow Cogeco to colocate all its Montreal FM stations, and the superior location would require lower power to achieve the same reception range. The transmitter was moved in late 2018. Effective radiated power is now limited to 148,000 watts, still much higher than the usual maximum.\n\nIn recent years, the station has been known especially for pranks by the Masked Avengers, a duo composed of Marc-Antoine Audette and Sebastien Trudel, against internationally-known personalities such as Jacques Chirac, Britney Spears, Sarah Palin and George W. Bush. The duo appeared on the program's afternoon show \"Les Cerveaux de l'info\", along with co-host Richard Z. Sirois.\n\nComedian Pierre Brassard, also known for prank phone calls, was also previously associated with the station.\n\nCKOI-FM lost its longtime morning host Normand Brathwaite on March 17, 2006, following a conflict with former co-host Jean-René Dufort. Dufort became the station's morning host until June 22, 2007. Braithwaite joined CITE-FM in August 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817107", "title": "Valday", "text": "Valday\n\nValday or Valdai may refer to one of the following:\n"}
{"id": "1817110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817110", "title": "The Day of the Lord", "text": "The Day of the Lord\n\n\"The Day of the Lord\" is a biblical term and theme used in both the Hebrew Bible () and the New Testament (), as in \"The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and the terrible day of the come\" (Joel , cited in Acts 2:20).\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, the meaning of the phrases refers to temporal events such as the invasion of a foreign army, the capture of a city and the suffering that befalls the inhabitants. This appears much in the second chapter of Isaiah.\n\nIn the New Testament, the \"day of the Lord\" may also refer to the writer's own times, or it may refer to predicted events in a later age of earth's history including the final judgment and the World to Come. \nThe expression may also have an extended meaning in referring to both the first and second comings of Jesus Christ.\n\nIt is used first by Isaiah and subsequently incorporated into prophetic and apocalyptic texts of the Bible. It relies on military images to describe the Lord as a \"divine warrior\" who will conquer his enemies. In certain prophetic texts of the Hebrew Bible, the enemies of the Lord are Israel's enemies, and in these visions the day of the Lord brings victory for the people of ancient Israel. Other prophets use the imagery as a warning to Israel or its leaders and for them, the day of the Lord will mean destruction for the biblical nations of Israel and/or Judah. This concept develops throughout Jewish and Christian Scripture into a day of divine, apocalyptic judgment at the end of the world.\n\nIn the biblical canon, the earliest, direct use of the phrase is in Isaiah 2: \"For the day of the of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud and lofty, and upon every one that is lifted up; and he shall be brought low\" (). Another early use of the phrase is in Amos 5:18-20. Wright suggests that the phrase was already a standard one, and Amos' hearers would take it to mean \"the day when Yahweh would intervene to put Israel at the head of the nations, irrespective of Israel's faithfulness to Him.\" Yet Amos declares \"Woe to you who long for the day of the ! Why do you long for the day of the ? That day will be darkness, not light\" ( NIV). Because Israel had sinned, God would come in judgement on them. Thus, the day of the Lord is about God chastening his people, whether it be through the Babylonian invasion of Jerusalem or a locust plague described in Joel . Yet holds a promise that on the Day of the Lord, \"everyone who calls on the name of the will be saved.\"\n\nIn Zephaniah 1:8, the Day of the is equated with \"the day of the 's sacrifice\". This has led Christian interpreters to equate it with Jesus' death. \n\nThe Hebrew יֹום and Greek ἡμέρα both means a 24 hours day or an age or epoch. So there are many events prophesied for the Day Of The Lord; which need to take in account that the Jewish day begins with the sunset so it expects a dark phase () at the beginning of this Age and then the sunrise with The Morning Star () followed by the plenty light ()of the eternal day. \n\nReference to a specific day as being \"The Day of the Lord\" is found in the Book of Daniel , \"Blessed is he who waits and comes unto 1,335 days.\"\n\nThis promise is also picked up in the New Testament, when is quoted in Acts 2:17-21. The phrase is also used in 1 Thessalonians to refer either to the rapture or to the return of Jesus. \n\nThe phrase alludes to a judgment for eternal rewards in where it says \"we are your rejoicing, even as ye also are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus\".\n\nThe Book of Revelation describes the day of the Lord as an apocalyptic time of God's almighty wrath, which comes upon those who are deemed wicked. The text pictures every man hiding in the rocks of the mountains during a major earthquake to attempt to hide from God's wrath, while celestial phenomena turn the moon blood red and the sun dark. These celestial phenomena are also mentioned in Joel 2:31, which foretells the same precise order of events mentioned in Revelation: The moon turns blood red and the sun turns dark before the great day of the Lord. Matthew 24:29-31 mentions the same event, yet it places the celestial phenomenon as occurring after the \"tribulation of those days\". According to these passages, it then seems that the day of the Lord is an event closely tied with the coming of the Messiah to judge the world.\n\n2 Peter 3:8-10 reads \"But, beloved, do not forget this one thing, that with the Lord one day [is] as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning [His] promise, as some count slackness, but is long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat; both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up.\" \n\nMeredith Kline equates the \"Day of the Lord\" with the \"Lord's Day\", which is usually taken to refer to the Christian weekly day of rest. Kline argues that the \"Lord's Day\" mentioned in is not first day of the week, but refers to \"the already realized heavenly enthronement of the Lord Jesus.\"\n"}
{"id": "1817111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817111", "title": "Stellar Stone", "text": "Stellar Stone\n\nStellar Stone LLC was an American video game developer based in Santa Monica, California, owned by Sergey Titov through his company TS Group Entertainment. Founded in 2000, the company commissioned game development in Russia and Ukraine to produce games with little staff and at low expenses.\n\nStellar Stone developed a total of seven games, most of which are little-known. However, their best-known title was \"\", a 2003 racing game that is considered to be one of the worst games ever made due to numerous glitches and lack of AI and collision detection, and holds Metacritic's all-time lowest score for a video game, at 8/100. Every game in the company's portfolio was published by GameMill Publishing, with the exception of their first title, \"Taxi Racer\", which was published by BestBuys Interactive. Stellar Stone released their last game in 2005, and ceased operations in 2006.\n\nStellar Stone was founded in Santa Monica, California in 2000. Headquartered in Santa Monica, the company's development teams were stationed outside the U.S., in Russia and Ukraine. The Eastern European location allowed Stellar Stone to produce games at the low cost of circa , instead of expenses around three to five times higher in price with other European or United States-based developers.\n\nAll of Stellar Stone's games were built on Eternity, a game engine developed by Sergey Titov, chief executive officer of TS Group Entertainment, who licensed it to Stellar Stone in exchange for a \"large chunk of the company\". According to Titov, the company \"[wanted] to do things cheap and [was] not willing to pay even 200-300 [thousand U.S. dollars]\" to create an engine on their own. Despite being the owner of Stellar Stone, Titov claims he \"didn't have much design and development input or any power to stop [the company's games] from being released.\"\n\nStellar Stone ceased business in 2006, due to losses as a result of the failed games. Referring to the company's employees and staff, Titov said \"I have no idea where all these people went. Not that I care about it either.\" Their Internet domain, www.stellarstone.com, went offline in 2006, and has since been cybersquatted. Titov went on to produce and publish more games that were to be critically panned, such as Hammerpoint Interactive's \"The War Z\" (produced and published by Titov's OP Productions), but also worked for Riot Games on \"League of Legends\".\n"}
{"id": "1817115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817115", "title": "Ebony Rainford-Brent", "text": "Ebony Rainford-Brent\n\nEbony-Jewel Cora-Lee Camellia Rosamond Rainford-Brent (born 31 December 1983 in Lambeth, London) is a retired English cricketer, who was the first black woman to play for the England team. During her playing career, she was also captain of the Surrey women's team.\n\nRainford-Brent was a member of the England team that won the 9th ICC Women's Cricket World Cup held in Australia from 9–22 March 2009. England beat New Zealand by 4 wickets in the final held at North Sydney Oval on 22 March 2009. In the three months following their World Cup win, the team went on to win the final of the 2009 ICC Women's World Twenty20 (held at Lord's prior to the men's final), the Natwest One Day series 4–0 against Australia, and also retain the Women's Ashes.\n\nAfter retiring from cricket, Rainford-Brent has gone on to become a sporting executive; a pundit for the BBC's flagship radio programme \"Test Match Special\" (she is one of the first female expert summarisers to commentate on men's international cricket matches); and a motivational speaker. In January 2015, Rainford-Brent returned to Surrey County Cricket Club, after being appointed their first Director of Women's Cricket.\n\nSince 2017, Rainford-Brent has hosted an inspirational podcast \"The Art of Success\".\n\nBorn New Year's Eve in 1983 at St Thomas' Hospital, she was raised in Herne Hill, South-East London. She was the youngest of four children; being the only girl, she was named after all her grandmothers and great-grandmothers, which led to her being called Ebony-Jewel Cora-Lee Camellia Rosamond Rainford-Brent to appease everyone.\n\nHer introduction to cricket came through the charity Cricket for Change, which visited her primary school when she was aged 9. She later attended the Grey Coat Hospital school in Westminster. She showed considerable sporting prowess; successful at many sports including football and basketball, and represented London at the English Schools' Athletics Championships in several disciplines, but she decided to focus on cricket.\nHowever, her promising cricket career was interrupted by a serious back injury. At age 19, she was diagnosed with two prolapsed discs and a pars defect. Her injuries forced her to take a year out from her studies at University College London (UCL), and NHS doctors advised her to give up playing any form of sport.\n\nAfter taking advice and support from her elder brother, she sought alternative opinions and treatment from numerous specialists. Eventually, the Talented Athletes Scholarship Scheme (TASS) programme made contact with her; they provided the necessary treatment and support to aid her recovery. Just under three years later, she recovered enough to represent her country at the 2007 World series in Chennai, India. She was named UCL Sportswoman of the Year in March 2007, and successfully completed her studies, graduating with a Masters in Chemistry.\n\nRainford-Brent played for Surrey throughout her playing career, from the under 11s to the senior team. She was captain of the Surrey Women's cricket team which in 2011 gained promotion to the top flight of domestic women's cricket – the LV County Championship Division One.\n\nAs well as being a member of the England Women's World Cup winning team, her international playing career highlights include, in 2009, winning Man of the Match against the West Indies, with a career best 72 not out.\n\nShe was the first woman cricketer to score 3 consecutive ducks in WT20I history.\n\nShe is a fully qualified cricket coach, tutor trainer and a Master Practitioner of neuro-linguistic programming (NLP).\n\nRainford-Brent has carried out numerous media engagements over the years. In addition to being a match host for Surrey County Cricket men's games, she has appeared as a guest presenter on BBC \"Newsround\"; also as an occasional expert and pundit on Sky Sports and \"BBC Breakfast\". She has written numerous blogs and articles for BBC Sport, \"Cricket World\" and others. In 2012, she began to appear on BBC radio's \"Test Match Special\" (\"TMS\"). Initially summarising women's games, she later also contributed to domestic men's matches and has since appeared as a \"TMS\" summariser for several men's international matches. In November 2014, it was announced that Rainford-Brent would be going to the men's 2015 Cricket World Cup as one of the team of expert summarisers for \"TMS\". In October 2016, she worked for the \"TMS\" team in both the first and second Tests (of a two-match series) between Bangladesh and England, in Chittagong and Dhaka.\n\nDuring her playing career, Rainford-Brent was appointed as one of the first ever Chance to Shine Coaching ambassadors: delivering cricket and motivational talks to state schools and clubs throughout England and Wales.\n\nIn 2011, Rainford-Brent began work as a cricket executive for the charity Lord's Taverners. She eventually became Cricket programmes manager for the charity, developing national programmes to support disadvantaged and disabled young people to access sport.\n\nHer role as Director for Surrey Women's Cricket involves working with Academy Director, Gareth Townsend and the Performance Department advising on all Women's cricket played at the club. She also works with the Surrey Cricket Board on the development of the Women's game and strategies to increase participation at all levels. In this role, she has been involved in the organisation of a women's Twenty20 match between Surrey and Middlesex in May 2015. Rainford-Brent, in discussing the event, suggested that the game would be the inaugural match in what was intended to become an annual tournament.\n\nIn November 2013, Rainford-Brent was appointed as a trustee of the England and Wales Cricket Trust (EWCT). Rainford-Brent is also an ambassador for Beyond Sport.\nRainford-Brent is a full member of the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA). She is also a keen drummer, golfer and budding photographer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817117", "title": "J. W. Tutt", "text": "J. W. Tutt\n\nJames William Tutt (26 April 1858–10 January 1911) was an English schoolteacher and entomologist. He was a founding editor of the journal \"Entomologists' Record\" from 1890 and published a landmark series on the \"British Lepidoptera\" in which he described numerous species of moths and was among the first to notice industrial melanism in the pepper moth \"Biston betularia\" and was among the first to provide a clear explanation of their increasing frequency based on the role of crypsis, natural selection by predators, and the effect of changed environmental conditions brought on by industrialism.\n\nTutt was born in Strood, Kent and went to the St. Nicholas Schools before going to St. Mark's Training College, Chelsea in 1876. He matriculated in the University of London and became a headmaster at Snowfields Board School followed by Webb Street School and Higher Grade School in Portman Place. Tutt was interested in insects from the age of thirteen but became more scientific after meeting a certain Mr Coverdale in 1881. Tutt was active in London scientific societies including the Entomological Society of London which he joined in 1885. A major contribution was his explanation of melanism that he noted in several insects including the famed pepper moth. He noted this in Yorkshire and provided a selectionist (based on Darwinian natural selection) explanation synthesized from ideas proposed by contemporaries including Buchanan White and Nicholas Cooke.\n\nTutt had a congenital heart condition but lived without much trouble. He died at his home in Rayleigh Villa, Westcombe Hill. He was buried at Lewisham Cemetery. Tutt had been married Frances Marsh Collins and they had two sons and three daughters.\n\nTutt was the author of \"The British Noctuae and their Varieties\" (1891–92), \"Natural History of the British Lepidoptera\" (1890–1911), \"Practical hints for the Field lepidopterist\" (1901) and \"A natural history of the British Lepidoptera. A text-book for students and collectors\" (1908). \n\n"}
{"id": "1817119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817119", "title": "CFOX-FM", "text": "CFOX-FM\n\nCFOX-FM (identified on air and in print as CFOX) is a Canadian radio station in Vancouver, British Columbia. It broadcasts at 99.3 MHz on the FM band with an effective radiated power of 100,000 watts (peak) from a transmitter on Mount Seymour in the District of North Vancouver. Studios are located in Downtown Vancouver, in the TD Tower. The station is owned by Corus Entertainment. CFOX has an alternative rock format, as it reports to Mediabase as a Canadian alternative rock station.\n\nCFOX began broadcasting on October 15, 1964 on 99.3 MHz with 100,000 watts, under the call sign CKLG-FM (not to be confused with the new LG in Vancouver CHLG-FM on 104.3 MHz.). Transmissions originally came from the south slope of Fromme Mountain in North Vancouver.\n\nCKLG-FM initially began with an easy listening format, but in the fall of 1967, it started experimenting with rock music at night. In October that year, CKLG-FM program director Frank Callaghan hired record store owner Bill Reiter (who later went on to become part of the Dr. Bundolo's Pandemonium Medicine Show comedy troupe) to host the jazz/blues program \"Groovin' Blue\" on Saturday evenings. CKLG-FM soon shifted to become Canada's first full-time FM rock music station on March 16, 1968, with the expansion of \"Groovin' Blue\" to six nights a week and the addition of tracks from rock, folk and popular albums. In 1970, CKLG-FM added a two-hour daily talk show hosted by Allen Garr, which ran on the station until 1975. By 1973, CKLG-FM had compiled a library of 3000 albums, and all its programming was aired live except on Sunday mornings, with special programming on the station including the Allen Garr talk show, live concerts and a Saturday sock-hop program. In 1976, under the guidance of new program director Roy Hennessy (a former morning host on CKLG-AM), the FM station made the gradual transition to a progressive rock format.\n\nAt noon on January 6, 1979, CKLG-FM changed to CFOX, a call sign first used by a defunct AM radio station in Montreal, Quebec in the 1960s and 1970s. The switch was marked by The Beatles song \"The End\", followed by \"The End\" by The Doors, concluding with three minutes of the sound of a scratching record commonly referred to as \"playing the label\". The first song on the \"new\" CFOX was Steely Dan's \"FM (No Static at All)\".\n\nIn 1984, CFOX moved its transmitter to the Rogers Broadcast multiplex on nearby Mount Seymour in order to reduce multipath reception problems.\n\nOn August 20, 1992, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) approved the sale of CFOX and CKLG from Moffat Communications Ltd. to Shaw Communications. This was part of Moffat's sale of its radio division. Transfer of CKLG/CFOX to Shaw was completed on September 1, 1992. Shaw's broadcasting division became Corus Entertainment in 1999. When Western International Communications, owner of classic rocker CFMI, sold its radio stations to Corus in 2000, CFOX shifted from album oriented rock to alternative rock, aiming at Rogers' former alternative rocker 104.9 Xfm (CKVX-FM 104.9), which signed on December 31, 1999.\n\nIn 1998, the station received approval to add a transmitter at Whistler, British Columbia to operate on the frequency 92.3 MHz with the callsign CFOX-FM-1.\n\nRogers changed CKVX from alternative rock to a smooth jazz/adult contemporary hybrid as CKCL on December 26, 2003, making CFOX the lone alternative rocker in Vancouver. CFOX soon returned to an active rock format, mixing in classic hard rock and heavy metal music, but continues to lean alternative rock. Most alternative songs were toned down when CKPK-FM signed on in 2008. By 2011, the station returned to alternative.\nOn July 14, 2011, the CRTC approved Corus's application to increase the average effective radiated power (ERP) from 35,200 to 51,000 watts (maximum ERP from 75,000 to 100,000 watts).\n\nEvery year since 1979, there has been a competition through voting, live events and a concert with the finalists at the Commodore Ballroom and radio air play on CFOX of unsigned local bands that have entered to compete for that year. It is narrowed down to a few winners and one Platinum winner. Prizes include cars, support, agency, management, recording guidance and other items which can be instrumental to a band's career like the ones below.\n\nNotable Winners: Nickelback, Bif Naked, Matthew Good Band, Gob, Murray Atkinson (2007), Default, Faber Drive (2005), Theory Of A Deadman, State Of Shock, Incura (2008), Goodbye Beatdown (2009), Stars of Boulevard (2010), Head Of The Herd (2011), Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (2011), FIELDS OF GREEN (2012) \n\n"}
{"id": "1817124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817124", "title": "Ace Fu Records", "text": "Ace Fu Records\n\nAce Fu Records is an independent record label founded in 1998 by Eric Speck. It is located in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The label went on indefinite hiatus in 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817125", "title": "SYR4: Goodbye 20th Century", "text": "SYR4: Goodbye 20th Century\n\nSYR4: Goodbye 20th Century is an album by American alternative rock band Sonic Youth. It is a double album of versions of pieces by avant-garde composers, performed by Sonic Youth and collaborators.\n\n\"SYR4\" featured works by avant-garde classical composers such as John Cage, Yoko Ono, Steve Reich and Christian Wolff, played by Sonic Youth and several collaborators from the modern avant-garde music scene, such as Christian Marclay, William Winant, Wharton Tiers and Takehisa Kosugi.\n\nUnlike other entries in the SYR series, \"SYR4\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s liner notes were written in English.\n\nThurston Moore and Kim Gordon's daughter Coco Hayley Moore, about 5 years old at the time of recording, provided the vocals for \"Voice Piece for Soprano\" on disc 1.\n\n\"SYR4: Goodbye 20th Century\" was released on CD and vinyl. The vinyl version had a slightly different track order, due to the side length constraints of the format. The first disc of the CD edition contained a QuickTime video of a performance of \"Piano Piece No. 13 (Carpenter's Piece)\", which showed Sonic Youth nailing piano keys down one by one.\n\n\"SYR: Goodbye 20th Century\" received mixed reviews from critics, but most praised the group's efforts at popularizing and reinterpreting the composers' works. The album placed second in \"The Wire\"s annual critics' poll for record of the year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817130", "title": "Meglos", "text": "Meglos\n\nMeglos is the second serial of the 18th season of the science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 27 September to 18 October 1980.\n\nIn the serial, the Zolfa-Thuran plant Meglos steals a huge source of power on the planet Tigella known as the Dodecahedron.\n\nThe Prion star system contains two habitable planets which have supported civilisations: Zolfa-Thura, a desert world devoid seemingly of life structures bar five giant screens; and Tigella, a jungle world inhabited by the humanoid, white haired Tigellans. The structure of Tigellan society is based on two castes: the scientific Savants, led by the earnest Deedrix; and the religiously fanatical Deons, led by Lexa. The latter worship the Dodecahedron, a mysterious twelve-sided crystal which they see as a gift from the god Ti. The Savants, however, have utilised its power as an energy source for their entire civilisation. The planet’s leader, Zastor, mediates between the two factions, whose tensions have grown greater as the energy source has begun to fluctuate. When Zastor’s old friend the Doctor gets in touch, the weary leader invites him back to Tigella to investigate and help. When the Fourth Doctor, Romana and K9 try to land the TARDIS on Tigella someone intervenes, trapping them in a time bubble, causing them to repeat a small \"pocket of time\" over and over again.\n\nThe culprit is Meglos, the last Zolfa-Thuran, a cactus creature who has remained hidden below the surface of his planet in a secret structure. He has summoned a band of space pirates called Gaztaks to help him in an audacious plan. Meglos wants to steal the Dodecahedron back from Tigella, as it is a Zolfa-Thuran energy source of immense power. To aid him, Meglos uses an Earthling captured for him by the Gaztaks to occupy and take on humanoid form: and the humanoid form he chooses is the Doctor, whom he has trapped in the bubble. While the hysteresis persists Meglos gets the Gaztaks to take him to Tigella, and infiltrates the city in his new identity. Zastor greets “the Doctor” warmly as an old friend, asking him to examine the Dodecahedron, but others are less sure, especially Lexa.\n\nThe Doctor and Romana break out of the bubble by throwing it out of phase, and then land on Tigella in the middle of the hostile jungle. As the Doctor heads off to find Zastor, Romana stumbles across dangerous vegetation – deadly bell plants – and then the Gaztaks, waiting patiently for Meglos to return to their spaceship. She gives them the slip after a while and heads off to the city.\n\nMeglos has used his time as the Doctor to steal the Dodecahedron, shrinking it to minute size. However, the Earthling fights back against his occupation, causing green cactus spikes to break out on his skin. When the Tigellans discover that the Dodecahedron is missing and sound the alarm, Meglos hides away, but the real Doctor arrives at the same time and is accused of theft. His bewilderment and charm are little defence as both Savants and Deons start to panic as the energy levels of the city start to fail. Lexa uses the situation to her own ends. Zastor and Deedrix are arrested in a Deon coup, with other Savants expelled to the hostile surface of the planet, while the Doctor himself is prepared for sacrifice to Ti.\n\nThe doors of the city are sealed with Meglos trapped inside, with a hostage Savant named Caris for company. She soon gets the upper hand when the Earthling tries another bout of resistance. In a subsequent mix-up, Romana overpowers Caris, letting Meglos escape and reunite with the Gaztaks, who have staged an attack on the city to rescue him. With the miniaturized Dodecahedron in his possession, the pirates blast off back to Zolfa-Thura – though three Gaztaks, half the crew, have been lost.\n\nThe real Doctor has by now been able to prove that he did not steal the artefact and that there is a doppelgänger at work. Lexa realises her mistake but does not live long to regret it when she is shot dead while protecting Romana from a wounded Gaztak who was left behind. The Doctor, Romana, Caris and Deedrix head with K9 for the TARDIS, determined to follow the Gaztak ship.\n\nGrugger’s ship touches down on Zolfa-Thura and Meglos wastes no time in restoring the Dodecahedron to full size and placing it at a spot equidistant between the Screens. He reveals his race perished in a civil war over the control of the crystal, which can power a weapon strong enough to destroy planets. At Grugger’s urging Meglos decides to use the weapon again and to aim it at Tigella.\n\nWhen the Doctor arrives, he plays Meglos at his own game and tries a little impersonation. The situation becomes so confused that the Gaztaks lose track of which one is which, enabling the Doctor to redirect the super-weapon at Zolfa-Thura before both he and Meglos are detained by the Gaztaks. Meglos abandons the Earthling, leaving a bemused man watching a cactus creature reassert himself in his laboratory. Meglos knows the Doctor has realigned the weapon. However, the creature is unable to stop the Doctor fleeing back to the TARDIS, taking the Earthling with him, and is also unable to persuade Grugger not to fire the weapon. From the TARDIS the Doctor and his friends witness the destruction of Zolfa-Thura, along with the Gaztaks, Meglos and the Dodecahedron.\n\nCaris and Deedrix return to rebuild Tigella, recognising with Zastor and the Deons that old enmities must be put aside and a new society forged. The Doctor and Romana depart and prepare to take the Earthling home, but as they are leaving Romana receives a message from the Time Lords that she must return to Gallifrey.\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Golden Pentangle\" and \"The Last Zolfa-Thuran\". This is one of only two multi-part stories to feature all credited cast members in every episode, the other being \"The Edge of Destruction\" (1964).\n\nThis story features the only use in \"Doctor Who\" of a camera-linking system known as Scene-Sync that allowed the use of non-static shots of characters superimposed onto a miniature set. As the cameras on the actors were moved, the cameras on the miniature set moved the equivalent scaled amount automatically. The exact scale motion was achieved by trial and error, involving minute adjustments to the voltage delivered to the slave camera's motors. Part Four's closing theme was transposed to the lower key of the original theme music.\n\nDuring production of this story, Madame Tussauds in London debuted the \"Doctor Who Exhibition\". Included were sculptures of both the Fourth Doctor and his Meglos doppelganger. As a result, Tom Baker is the only person to have appeared twice in the wax museum.\n\nJacqueline Hill, who played the First Doctor's companion Barbara Wright, makes a guest appearance as Lexa, marking the first time a companion has returned to play a role other than their original character. Brotadac is an anagram of \"Bad Actor\", an in-joke by the production team. Bill Fraser only agreed to take the role of Grugger on condition the character was allowed to kick K9. His request was granted; he later appeared in the spin-off pilot \"K-9 and Company\". Crawford Logan also provided the voice of Meglos but was credited only as Deedrix.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in February 1983. Dicks names Meglos' unfortunate human host and bookends the novel with his kidnapping and subsequent return to Earth. A French translation of the book was published in 1987.\n\n\"Meglos\" was released on VHS in April 2003, on DVD in January 2011, and as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files (issue 109) in March 2013. Paddy Kingsland and Peter Howell's incidental music for the serial was released as part of the compilation album \"\" in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "1817135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817135", "title": "Sveta Nedilja", "text": "Sveta Nedilja\n\nSveta Nedilja, officially known as Sveta Nedjelja (by local Chakavian dialect: \"Svijeta Nedija\"), is a small village on the Croatian island of Hvar. It is located near the city of Hvar and it has 131 residents (2011).\n\nSveta Nedilja lies on a sheer cliff at the foot of \"Sv. Nikola\" (St. Nicholas; 626 metres) the highest peak of the island, below a cave which was inhabited back in the Neolithic.\n\nThe cave served as the site for an Augustinian monastery in the Middle Ages. The monastery, which existed from the 15th century to 1787, was built in a large opening of the cave where there is also a spring. Today, only the monastery church and a part of a shell of a house are preserved.\n\nThe village, which lies half way to the cave, is reached from the sea by a winding path which snakes up through pine woods. A new church was built in the village this century. It has a painting \"St. Jerome and the Saints\" by Baldassare d'Anna, and a crucifix by Juraj Plančić (1899–1930).\n\nSveta Nedilja is well known for its wine tradition. Vineyards are located on steep south slopes above the village. Wine from this region is characterized by a strong red color and fullness of flavor. Plavac Mali is the most typical red wine grape variety.\nIt is also a hometown of a famous Zlatan Otok winery established in 1986 by Zlatan Plenkovic.\n"}
{"id": "1817137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817137", "title": "CKRY-FM", "text": "CKRY-FM\n\nCKRY-FM is a Canadian radio station that broadcasts a country music format at 105.1 FM in Calgary, Alberta. The station uses its on-air brand name Country 105. The station is owned by Corus Entertainment, which also owns sister stations CHQR, CFGQ-FM, CICT-DT, and CISA-DT. CKRY's studios are located on 17th Ave SW near Westbrook Mall, while its transmitter is located at 85th Street Southwest and Old Banff Coach Road in western Calgary.\n\nCKRY is currently the most listened-to radio station in the Calgary market according to a spring 2013 PPM data report being released by BBM Canada.Country 105 has been awarded Station of the Year several times, most recently in 2019.\n\nA transmitter located in Banff, Alberta, rebroadcasts the station at 93.3 FM.\n\nIn December 2015, CKRY launched HD Radio services, becoming the first station in Alberta to do so. Their HD2 sub-channel airs a simulcast of sister station CHQR. On April 1. 2016, Corus acquired Shaw Media, giving CKRY two TV stations for additional sister networks. Country 105 is simulcast across Canada on Bell TV satellite channel 968.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817152", "title": "NYC Ghosts &amp; Flowers", "text": "NYC Ghosts &amp; Flowers\n\nNYC Ghosts & Flowers is the eleventh studio album by American rock band Sonic Youth, released on May 16, 2000 by DGC Records. The highly experimental album is considered to be a reaction to the theft of the band's instruments in July 1999, when several irreplaceable guitars and effects pedals were stolen. \"NYC Ghosts & Flowers\" was the first album since \"Bad Moon Rising\" in which the band used prepared guitar.\n\nAs a result of the theft, the members of Sonic Youth relied upon \"old guitars in their studio, unearthing instruments they hadn't used in years\" which \"along with equipment purchased to fulfill the remaining [...] dates [of the tour], would serve as the foundation for six new songs written over the next month\", in addition to \"Free City Rhymes\" and \"Renegade Princess\", which were written prior to the tour. The band members later acknowledged that \"the gear theft was somewhat of a blessing, if [also] a rather unwelcome and unpleasant one, in that it truly forced them to 'start over' and approach creating music with brand new boundaries\".\n\nOn this album, the influence of beat poetry on the band was strongly evident: The lyrics to most songs resembled the beat style; Lenny Bruce and D. A. Levy were name-checked; and the cover art was based on a painting by William S. Burroughs.\n\n\"NYC Ghosts & Flowers\" was released on May 16, 2000 by record label DGC.\n\nA music video was released for the track \"Nevermind (What Was It Anyway)\". According to the band's official website, it was a proposed single that \"never actually found its way into stores.\"\n\n\"NYC Ghosts & Flowers\" received an approval rating of 66 out of 100 on review aggregator website Metacritic, signifying \"generally favorable reviews\". In a positive review for the \"Chicago Tribune\", Greg Kot said \"though Sonic Youth flirted with alternative-rock songcraft in the early '90s, these noise-rock renegades are once again happily viewing their guitars as hunks of wood, wire and infinite possibility.\" He went on to write, \"No rock band makes the avant-garde sound quite this tactile and sensual.\" \"Salon.com\" also gave the album a positive review and stated, \"Even while there isn't a single song here that holds together from beginning to end, even as the music makes only itself felt in halting jigsaw fashion... the album has a gloomy, unaccommodating tenacity that's hard to shake.\" \"Mojo\" stated that \"in the end, it's surprisingly worth it for the few great, strange tracks.\" In \"Spin\", Douglas Wolk hailed it as Sonic Youth's \"artiest, most texturally spectacular album\" yet, writing that it \"fashions a link between the free-jazz of the New York Art Quartet and the psychotic spasms of 1978's no wave grail, \"No New York\".\" In \"NME\"s opinion, the album \"burns with such a sense of direction and focus\" that revealed the group to still be \"a vital creative force\" in music.\n\nAccording to Robert Christgau, \"NYC Ghosts & Flowers\" proved to be Sonic Youth's \"dud by acclamation\" among critics; he himself had given it a positive review in \"The Village Voice\" but later said the record's \"meanderings\", which had \"captivated me in their ambiently environmental way, never fully reconnected\" on later listens. \"Select\" wrote that \"the songs suffer from a lazy approach and the relentless repetition of unengaging chord patterns.\" \"Billboard\" believed the record \"either encapsulates Sonic Youth's most endearing or annoying qualities, depending on how one feels about the band and the spoken-word poetics from Kim Gordon.\" Brent DiCrescenzo's review for \"Pitchfork\" was far more critical and assigned the album a score of 0.0 out of 10, with the critic panning it as \"an unfathomable album which will be heard in the squash courts and open mic nights of deepest Hell.\" Commenting on the album's avant-garde roots, he said, \"These are not new ideas. These are ideas that were arrogant and unlistenable upon birth thirty years ago.\" DiCrescenzo later reevaluated his opinion of the album and, in 2013, remarked on the higher esteem with which he now held it: \"I now love the record. It's unlike anything else; eerie and beautiful. [...] No, the lesson here is: beware the opinions of a kid right out of college.\" He also described \"Pitchfork\"s decimal scale as \"knowingly silly\" and \"arbitrary\".\n\nNote: For the vinyl version, \"Renegade Princess\" moved to track 6, and \"Side2Side\" & \"StreamXSonik Subway\" were being reversed from the normal tracklist.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817154", "title": "Cucumis anguria", "text": "Cucumis anguria\n\nCucumis anguria, commonly known as maroon cucumber, West Indian gherkin, maxixe, burr gherkin, cackrey, and West Indian gourd, is a vine that is indigenous to Africa, but has become naturalized in the New World, and is cultivated in many places. It is similar and related to the common cucumber (\"C. sativus\") and its cultivars are known as gherkins.\n\n\"Cucumis anguria\" is a thinly stemmed, herbaceous vine scrambling up to 3 meters long. Fruits (4–5 cm × 3–4 cm) grow on long stalks, and are ovoid to oblong. The fruits are covered with long hairs over a surface of spines or wart-like bumps. The inner flesh is pallid to green.\n\nAlthough naturalized in many parts of the New World, \"Cucumis anguria\" is indigenous only to Africa, in the following countries: Angola; Botswana; the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Malawi; Mozambique; Namibia; South Africa (KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga); Swaziland; Tanzania; Zambia; and Zimbabwe.\n\n\"Cucumis anguria\" has become naturalized in: Anguilla; Antigua and Barbuda; Australia (Queensland and Western Australia); Barbados; Brazil; Cayman Islands; Costa Rica; Cuba; the Dominican Republic; Ecuador; French Guiana; Grenada; Guadeloupe; Guatemala; Haiti; Honduras; Jamaica; Madagascar; Martinique; Mexico; Netherlands Antilles; Nicaragua; Panama; Peru; Puerto Rico; Saint Lucia; Saint Vincent and Grenadines; Suriname; the United States (California, Florida, Georgia, Massachusetts, Montana, New York, Oregon, Texas, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Washington); Venezuela; and both British and American Virgin Islands.\n\n\"Cucumis anguria\" is also cultivated, but not indigenous to, nor yet believed to have become naturalized in these places: Cape Verde; Réunion; Senegal; and parts of the Caribbean not already mentioned above.\n\n\"Cucumis anguria\" is primarily grown (as a crop plant) for its edible fruit, which are used in pickling, as cooked vegetables, or eaten raw. The flavor is similar to that of the common cucumber. \"C. anguria\" fruits are popular in the northeast and north of Brazil, where they are an ingredient in the local version of \"cozido\" (meat-and-vegetable stew).\n\n\"Cucumis anguria\" has been used in folk medicine to treat ailments of the stomach.\n\nCrops are susceptible to attacks by fungi, aphids, and cucumber beetles.\n"}
{"id": "1817156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817156", "title": "John Smith (English filmmaker)", "text": "John Smith (English filmmaker)\n\nJohn Smith (born 1952, Walthamstow, England) is an award winning avant garde filmmaker noted for his use of humour in exploring various themes that often play upon the film spectator's conditioned assumptions of the medium.\n\nHis film \"The Girl Chewing Gum\" is widely acknowledged as one of the most important avant-garde films of the 20th century.\n\nJohn Smith studied film at the Royal College of Art. After graduating in 1977 he became involved in the activities of the London Filmmakers’ Co-op. Strongly influenced by conceptual art and the structural materialist ideas which dominated British artists' filmmaking at that time, but also fascinated by the immersive power of narrative and the spoken word, he has developed a body of work which reworks and transforms reality, playfully exploring and exposing the language of cinema.\n\nSince 1972 John Smith has made over fifty film, video and installation works that have been shown in cinemas, art galleries and on television around the world and awarded major prizes at many international film festivals including Oberhausen Short Film Festival; Cork Film Festival; Leipzig Festival for Documentary and Animated Film; 'Punto de Vista' Documentary Festival, Pamplona; Hamburg Short Film Festival; Ann Arbor Film Festival; Uppsala Short Film Festival and Biennial of Moving Images, Geneva. His solo exhibitions include Tanya Leighton, Berlin (2017, 2015, 2013, 2012 and 2010), Alma Zevi, Venice (2017), Kate MacGarry, London (2016), Wolverhampton Art Gallery (2016), Museum of Contemporary Art, Leipzig (2015), La Galerie, Noisy-le-Sec, Paris (2014), Kestnergesellschaft, Hannover (2012), Turner Contemporary, Margate (2012), Weserburg Museum of Contemporary Art, Bremen (2012), Uppsala Art Museum (2011), Sala Diaz Gallery, San Antonio, Texas (2010), Ikon Gallery, Birmingham (2006), Kunstmuseum Magdeburg (2005), Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool (2003) and Pearl Gallery, London (2003). A major retrospective exhibition of his work encompassing work from 1972 to 2010 curated by the graduating students of the Royal College of Art Curating Contemporary Art Course took place in spring 2010 at the RCA Galleries. Smith regularly presents his work in person and in recent years it has been profiled through retrospectives at the 2007 Venice Biennale and film festivals in Oberhausen, Cork, Tampere, St. Petersburg, Mexico City, Uppsala, Sarajevo, Vilnius, Prizren, Bristol, Munich, Regensburg, Karlstad, Lussas and La Rochelle.\n\nJohn Smith lives and works in London. He teaches part-time at the University of East London where he is Professor of Fine Art. In 2011 he received a Paul Hamlyn Foundation Award for Artists and in 2013 he was the winner of Film London’s Jarman Award. His work is held in numerous collections including Arts Council England; Tate Gallery; Museum of Modern Art, New York; Muzeum Sztuki, Lodz; Ella Fontanals-Cisneros, Miami; Kunstmuseum Magdeburg; Ferens Art Gallery, Hull and Wolverhampton Art Gallery. He is represented by Tanya Leighton, Berlin and Kate MacGarry, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817158", "title": "Nicolás Lindley López", "text": "Nicolás Lindley López\n\nNicolás Eduardo Lindley López (November 16, 1908 – May 3, 1995) was a Peruvian military commander who headed the military government in Peru for several months in 1963 and served as the 56th President of Peru (2nd President of the Military Junta).\n\nLindley was born in Lima in 1908 to an upper-class family of English descent. He studied at the Anglo-Peruvian School (Colegio San Andrés). In 1926, he entered the Chorrillos Military School, where he obtained his doctorate in 1930. Lindley had a successful career within the military, and in 1960 he became general commander of the Peruvian Army.\n\nOn July 18 1962, Lindley launched a military coup together with Ricardo Pérez Godoy against the democratically elected President of Peru Manuel Prado, in order to prevent the election of Manuel A. Odría as president by Congress on July 28, 1962, based on his agreement between Víctor Raúl Haya de la Torre, who placed first in the election, but the military issued a veto against him. They installed a military government, initially headed by Pérez with Lindley as the minister of defense. The junta's main goal was to organize new elections and transfer power to a newly elected government. When Pérez showed an inclination to stay in power for longer than originally foreseen, he was overthrown by Lindley on March 3, 1963. Lindley stayed in power until July 28 that year when the election winner Fernando Belaúnde took over the presidency.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1975, Lindley served as the Peruvian ambassador to Spain. He then retired from politics and military life, and later returned to Peru, where he lived until his death at the age of 86.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817170", "title": "The Last Yankee", "text": "The Last Yankee\n\nThe Last Yankee is a play by Arthur Miller, which premiered on January 5, 1993 at the Manhattan Theatre Club in New York City. The cast included Tom Aldredge as John Frick, Frances Conroy as Patricia Hamilton, Rose Gregorio as Karen Frick, John Heard as Leroy Hamilton, and Charlotte Maier as the Patient. The play had been performed previously in a much shorter version two years earlier.\n\n\"The Last Yankee\" takes place in a present-day state mental hospital, located somewhere in New England. Patricia Hamilton is recovering from depression, and this may be the day she feels strong enough to go home. But a visit from her husband Leroy, a descendant of one of America's founding fathers (but referred to as a \"Swamp Yankee\"), coincides with that of a successful businessman, John Frick, who has come to see his newly admitted wife, Karen. A clash of values and emotions upsets them all.\n\nIt is a play in two parts which focuses on the relationships of two couples - Leroy and Patricia Hamilton, married many years with seven children, and John and Karen Frick, a childless couple. Both women are patients at a mental institution, and act one sees the two men meet for the first time in the waiting room on visitors' day. Karen has not long been institutionalised, and Frick is having a difficult time coping with her mental illness, while Patricia has been in and out of institutions for many years. The two men struggle to communicate under the circumstances, though even this breaks down in the face of their respective situations. Patricia and Karen have become friendly during their time together in the ward, and act two sees the four characters brought together inside, where a picture emerges of a society whose members feel obscurely cheated and where success is equated with failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817174", "title": "Bentley railway station (Hampshire)", "text": "Bentley railway station (Hampshire)\n\nBentley railway station serves the village of Bentley in Hampshire, England. It is situated on the Alton Line, between Farnham and Alton. The station and all trains serving it are operated by South Western Railway.\n\nThe village of Bentley and the hamlet of Isington are roughly the same distance from the station.\n\nBentley was the northern terminus of the Bentley and Bordon Light Railway, built in 1905 to serve the military camp at Bordon. Built with assistance of the British Army, the line closed to passengers in 1957 (remaining open to serve traffic to the Longmoor Military Railway in times of emergency) and closed to all traffic in 1966; the track was lifted later that same year.\n\nIn June 2009, the Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC) issued a report (), which proposed the reinstatement of the line between Bentley and Bordon, as one of 20 schemes that are recommended for further consultation. 14 of these are reinstatements of lines closed in the Beeching cuts.\n\nTrains operate between Alton and London Waterloo, typically every 30 minutes in each direction, every day of the week. However, as Bentley is the least used station on the line, generally speaking alternate trains omit the stop at Bentley, meaning it has an hourly service. Faster services to London also pass through, but do not stop.\n\nDespite the station having two platforms, the majority of the trains stop at, or pass through platform 1. Platform 2 is only used during peak hours or on Sundays, when the station is used as a passing loop.\n"}
{"id": "1817180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817180", "title": "Alexander Mikhaylovich Zaytsev", "text": "Alexander Mikhaylovich Zaytsev\n\nAleksander Mikhaylovich Zaytsev (), also spelled as Saytzeff and Saytzev (2 July 1841 – 1 September 1910), was a Russian chemist. He worked on organic compounds and proposed Zaitsev's rule, which predicts the product composition of an elimination reaction.\n\nZaytsev was born in Kazan. He was the son of a tea and sugar merchant, who had decided that his son should follow him into the mercantile trades. However, at the urging of his maternal uncle, the physicist Lyapunov, Zaytsev was allowed to enroll at University of Kazan to study economics. At this time, Russia was experimenting with the cameral system, meaning that every student graduating in law and economics from a Russian university had to take two years of chemistry. Zaytsev was thus introduced to Aleksandr Mikhailovich Butlerov.\n\nEarly on, Zaytsev began working with Butlerov, who clearly saw in him an excellent laboratory chemist, and whose later actions showed that he felt that Zaytsev was an asset to Russian organic chemistry. On the death of his father, Zaytsev took his \"diplom\" in 1862, and immediately went to western Europe to further his chemical studies, studying with Hermann Kolbe in Marburg, and with Charles Adolphe Wurtz in Paris. This went directly against the accepted norms of the day, which had the student complete the \"kandidat\" degree (today approximately equivalent to the doctor of philosophy degree, but then closer to the thesis for the B.Sc. (Hons.) degree in British universities), and then spend two or three years in study abroad (a \"komandirovka\") before returning to Russia as a salaried laboratory assistant studying for the doctorate.\n\nDuring his studies with Kolbe between 1862 and 1864, Zaytsev discovered sulfoxides and trialkylsulfonium salts. In 1864, he moved to Paris, where he worked for a year in the laboratories of Wurtz before returning to Marburg in 1865. At this time, Kolbe accepted a call to Leipzig, and Zaytsev, now out of money, returned to Russia. Upon his return, Zaytsev again joined Butlerov as an unpaid assistant. During this time, he wrote a successful \"kandidat\" dissertation.\n\nIn order to teach, he required either a master's degree from a Russian university, or a Ph.D. from a foreign university, so he wrote up his work on the sulfoxides and submitted it to the University of Leipzig where (probably thanks to Kolbe's influence) he was awarded the Ph.D. in 1866. With Zaytsev now holding the Ph.D., Butlerov was able to secure his appointment as an assistant in agronomy. (In March 1866 the Kazan University board voted for this appointment.) Two years later, Zaytsev was awarded his M. Chem. degree, and, the following year (1869) was appointed as Extraordinary Professor of Chemistry, the junior colleague of another Butlerov student, Vladimir Vasilyevich Markovnikov (1838–1904). Zaytsev submitted his Dr. Chem. dissertation in 1870, and was awarded the degree over the indirect objections of Markovnikov (as second examiner of the dissertation, Markovnikov had written an overtly positive assessment that was meant to be read between the lines). The same year, he was promoted to Ordinary Professor of Chemistry. This may have been one of the final straws for Markovnikov, who left Kazan University in 1871 for Odessa. Zaytsev continued at Kazan University until his death in 1910.\n\nHis research at Kazan was primarily concerned with the development of organozinc chemistry and the synthesis of alcohols. The first of these reactions had been reported by Butlerov in 1863, who prepared \"tert\"-butyl alcohol from dimethylzinc and phosgene. Zaytsev and his students Egor Egorevich Vagner (Georg Wagner, 1849–1903) and Sergei Nikolaevich Reformatskii (1860–1934) extended this reaction to a general synthesis of alcohols using alkylzinc iodides. This synthesis was the best way to make alcohols until the advent of the Grignard reaction in 1901. Reformatskii's work, which used the zinc compounds from alpha-bromoesters, led to the discovery of a synthetic reaction (the Reformatskii reaction) that is still used today. Zaitsev's Rule was reported in 1875, and appeared just as his nemesis, Markovnikov, (who had made a prediction which the rule contradicts) was taking the Chair at Moscow University. Zaytsev received several honors: he was elected as a Corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Science, an honorary member of Kiev University, and he served two terms as President of the Russian Physical-Chemical Society.\n\nZaytsev died on 1 September 1910 in Kazan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817181", "title": "Murray Street (album)", "text": "Murray Street (album)\n\nMurray Street (sometimes written as Murray St.) is the twelfth studio album by American rock band Sonic Youth, released on June 25, 2002 by DGC Records.\n\n\"Murray Street\" is the first album by the band to feature Jim O'Rourke as an official fifth member to bolster the group's sound.\n\nRecording began in August 2001 in the band's Echo Canyon studio in New York City, following their final \"NYC Ghosts and Flowers/Goodbye to the 20th Century\" tour. The first release of material from the sessions was the song \"Plastic Sun\", on a promotional CD included with an issue of \"Jane\" magazine. However, due to an error in the pitch, the band re-released the song on their website. Recording sessions reached an unexpected halt on September 11, 2001 following the terrorist attacks, as the band instead led a Trade Center benefit festival on October 9. Several other benefits and gigs led them to their rescheduled March 17, 2002 appearance at the All Tomorrow's Parties festival in Los Angeles, California. By then, recording and mixing for the album was complete and all seven tracks (first revealed on the band website) were played at the festival. The new material was hailed as a return to the style of distorted and complex instrumentals that made the band underground favorites.\n\nArt director Frank Olinsky led the conception of the cover designs. The young blonde-haired girl pictured to the right on the album's cover was Coco Hayley Moore, Thurston Moore and Kim Gordon's daughter, picking strawberries with her friend, Stella, who was on the left. No title was shown on the cover, just a scrawled \"SONIC YOUTH\". The three-page, double-sided CD booklet, whose cover featured a reverse color image of the CD cover, included liner notes, photographs and album credits. The back cover depicted the Murray Street street sign.\n\nIn early June 2002, \"Murray Street\" was released in Japan with the bonus track, \"Street Sauce\". June 10 was the release date in Europe and June 25 was the release in North America. In France, 500 copies came with a limited-edition bonus blue 10\" EP, featuring three exclusive tracks from their recent soundtrack developments: \"Derniere Minute Electrifee\" on one side, \"Le Paysage Zim Zum\" and \"Coca Neon Kamera Sutra\" on the other. In North America, the disc was enhanced, including a screen saver and link to a \"secret\" link on the Sonic Youth website that offered promo photographs, music videos and all three songs from the \"Kali Yug\" EP. The gatefold vinyl edition was released on the Smells Like Records Goofin imprint.\n\nUpon release, \"Murray Street\" was a moderate success, peaking at number 126 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\n\"Murray Street\" received a score of 82 out of 100 from Metacritic based on \"universal acclaim\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote that, with the album, \"Sonic Youth find a balance – between formlessness and structure, melody and cacophony – that's eluded them for a while\". Playlouder gave the album 4.5 out of 5 stars and said, \"There is just enough balance between the tune, and the unexpected jazz chords, ear-splitting squeals, and lovely harmonic noises to make it forever listenable\". \"The A.V. Club\" gave it a favorable review and said the album \"doesn't mark an epochal moment for Sonic Youth, but its familiar nods and new ingredients--from Steve Shelley's occasionally near-funky drumming to O'Rourke's tingly laptop textures--stake out another high point for a band achieving self-realization by reconciling self-absorption with a sigh and a smile\". Neumu.net gave it a score of 8 of 10 stars and stated: \"Written with some basic, inviting rock structures, the album replaces the hyper energy and angst of older material with slowed-down, complex textures and delicate grooves -- but still rocks out intermittently\". Nude as the News gave it a score of 8 out of 10 and said, \"Whether they came on board at \"Daydream Nation\" or \"Experimental Jet Set\", true believers will relish this one\". \"Uncut\" gave it 4 of 5 stars, and said that the album \"contains some of the best music Sonic Youth have recorded since the landmark \"Daydream Nation\" in 1988\". \"Blender\" also gave it 4 of 5 stars and said of Sonic Youth, \"They've got more sweet-and-bitter guitar muscle than ever\". \"Q\" likewise gave the album 4 stars and called it \"an essay in coolly assured, sophisticated leftfield rock, occasionally laden with trademark discordance yet also full of scintillating tunes\". \"Billboard\" gave it a favorable review and said the album \"features some of the group's most focused and seductive work ever\". \"Mojo\" also gave the album 4 stars while labeling it as the \"Album of the Month\", and said, \"The band's conventional elements are even more conventional while the boundary-pushers stretch as far as ever\". \"Spin\" likewise gave the album a score of 8 out of 10 and said, \"This time around, the band square their artier tendencies with their sweet tooth for classic psych-rock\". No Ripcord gave it 8 of 10 stars and said, \"If you doubt the importance of Sonic Youth then a few listens to Murray Street will make you think again. Yes, there are only seven rather lengthy tracks here but you'll have to look elsewhere for signs of indulgence\".\n\n\"Alternative Press\" gave the album 3.5 out of 5 stars and said that it \"features less avant-garde noodling and more straight-up Youth\". However, \"The Village Voice\" gave it a mixed review and said, \"The new album isn't terrible, just dull\". \"Kludge\" included it on their list of best albums of 2002. Robert Christgau, who was somewhat unimpressed in his original \"Village Voice\" review, later said that \"\"Murray\"s song-soundscape fusion ... sounded strong\" in retrospect.\n\n\"The Wire\" named \"Murray Street\" its record of the year for 2002. Pitchfork placed \"Murray Street\" at number 108 in their list of the 200 greatest albums of the 2000s.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817182", "title": "Full Circle (Doctor Who)", "text": "Full Circle (Doctor Who)\n\nFull Circle is the third serial of the 18th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 25 October to 15 November 1980.\n\nThe serial involves the alien time traveller the Fourth Doctor (Tom Baker) discovering the life cycle of three closely related species on the planet Alzarius—the humanoid Alzarians, the Marshmen, and the Marshspiders—coming \"full circle\". \"Full Circle\" is the first of three loosely connected serials set in another universe to the Doctor's own known as E-Space and introduces Matthew Waterhouse as the companion Adric.\n\nEn route to Gallifrey to return Romana to the High Council of Time Lords, the TARDIS passes through a strange phenomenon and ends up in an alternative universe called E-Space. Neither the Fourth Doctor nor Romana herself can calculate why the TARDIS scanner shows images of their planet when they have arrived in a verdant forest. It later emerges they have journeyed to this pocket universe through a rare space/time phenomenon known as a Charged Vacuum Emboitment.\n\nNearby is a small but sustainable civilisation of humanoids who live between a river and a grounded spaceship called the \"Starliner\". They came to the planet, Alzarius, from Terradon and much of the focus of society is on repairing their craft to make it navigable. It is an oligarchy ruled by three self-selecting senior colonists known as Deciders, who ensure the smooth running and order of their adopted world and lay particular store on technical ability. One of the brightest of the younger colonists is Adric, who bears a Badge of Mathematical Excellence in recognition of his computational skills. However, his brother Varsh has rejected the regimented society of the Starliner and leads a band of rebels called Outlers, who steal harvested riverfruit and other foods to survive.\n\nAll is not well in the colony. Strange eggs have started to appear in the riverfruit, and this is interpreted by First Decider Draith, using the System File of the Starliner, as an omen of Mistfall, a strange periodic change to the planet during which the natural balance of society is threatened. Soon Mistfall begins, and the colonists move into the Starliner to protect themselves. Adric attempts to steal some riverfruit to prove himself to his brother; Draith gives chase to his young protégé but falls and lands in the river – only to be dragged beneath the waves by a strange force. His last words are aimed at the chief scientists of the colony: \"Tell Dexeter we've come full circle!\" Adric heads into the forest in panic, finding the TARDIS. The Doctor and Romana take him in and tend to his leg wound, which recovers remarkably quickly. The Doctor heads off to investigate the planet, while Adric attracts Varsh and the other Outlers to the protection of the TARDIS.\n\nThe other Deciders, Garif and Nefred, have ordered the Starliner doors closed as per procedure, knowing that both Draith and Keara, an Outler and the daughter of a prominent citizen called Login, have not entered the ship. Despite his worries, Login accepts a position as Third Decider when it is determined that Draith has died. It is as well the doors have been closed – humanoid, aggressive Marshmen begin to appear from underwater, looking threatening, and scuttling Marshspiders hatch from the eggs of the Riverfruit. The Marshmen beat on the walls of the Starliner to gain entry but the creatures are not admitted. The Doctor, however, gains entry to the Starliner using his sonic screwdriver, followed by a young and inquisitive Marshchild. Both are found and taken before the Three Deciders. The Doctor is appalled when chief scientist Dexeter starts to perform vivisection experiments on the Marshchild.\n\nA group of Marshmen have carried the TARDIS to a cave, intending to use it as a battering ram to force their way into the Starliner. Romana decides to venture outside. She is bitten by a Marshspider and starts to change, seeming possessed. Adric panics and materialises the TARDIS inside the Starliner. When the Outlers emerge, the Doctor pilots the TARDIS back to the cave, and finds an alert but amnesiac Romana. The Doctor scoops up the remains of a Marshspider and then reverses his journey once more with Adric and an unconscious Romana in tow. By the time he is back in the Starliner, however, Dexeter has tried to examine the brain of the Marshchild, provoking it to attack and kill him and itself. The Doctor is furious, turning on the Deciders and denounces their society – revealing secret ship controls that show the Starliner has been ready to pilot from Alzarius for centuries, but the farce of constant repair continued. The problem is that, though the Deciders understand the technical construction of the ship, no one knows how to pilot it.\n\nThe Doctor persuades the Deciders to give him equipment to examine the cells of the Marshspider and marshchild and deduces that they are from identical DNA sources. The situation is complicated, however, when a transformed Romana releases the emergency exits and allows the Marshmen to invade the Starliner. The colonists retreat before the creatures, many of whom are more inquisitive than dangerous. Nefred is mortally wounded while fleeing; his last admission is that the colonists cannot return to Terradon, because they have never been there. It is realised that the present-day Alzarians are actually a subspecies of the Marshmen, who wiped out the Starliner's original Terradonian crew and then gradually evolved into human form to take their place.\n\nThe Doctor uses a protein serum to cure Romana, and they determine from research in the ship's science unit that the ship has been maintained for 40,000 generations by a species that has three aspects; spiders, Marshmen, and the current humanoids. They are all from the same DNA and thus have come \"full circle\". This is the real secret of the System Files.\n\nIt is accidentally deduced that oxygen in pure form is problematic to the Marshmen, and this non-lethal defence is used to force the Marshmen out of the Starliner. During their retreat, Varsh is killed, leaving Adric in emotional turmoil. With the Marshmen returning to the swamps, the boy stows away on board the TARDIS. Meanwhile, his fellow colonists pilot the craft away from Alzarius. The Doctor, Romana and K-9 are unaware of Adric's presence as they leave the planet.\n\nThe story was repeated on BBC1 (except BBC1 Wales) across four consecutive evenings from Monday to Thursday, 3–6 August 1981, achieving viewing figures of 4.9, 4.2, 4.6 and 6.4 million viewers respectively.\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Planet That Slept\". At the time of writing this story, Andrew Smith was a seventeen-year-old who achieved his lifelong ambition to write for the show.\n\nThe exterior locations for Alzarius were filmed at Black Park in Buckinghamshire.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Andrew Smith, was published by Target Books in September 1982. The novelisation opens with the Starliner crashing on Alzarius.\n\n\"Full Circle\" was released on VHS in October 1997. The DVD was released in January 2009 as part of a boxed set called \"The E-Space Trilogy\". This serial was also released as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files (issue 85) in April 2012. Paddy Kingsland's incidental music for the serial was released as part of the compilation album \"\" in 2002. In 2019, the story was released on Blu-ray as part of the Doctor Who Collection Season 18 box set.\n\nA book on the serial, written by New Zealand academic John Toon, was released by Obverse Books in January 2018 as part of its Black Archive series. It won the Sir Julius Vogel Award in the category of Best Professional Production/Publication in 2019.\n"}
{"id": "1817186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817186", "title": "Baby walker", "text": "Baby walker\n\nA baby walker is a device that can be used by infants who cannot walk on their own to move from one place to another. Modern baby walkers are also for toddlers. The have a base made of hard plastic sitting on top of wheels and a suspended fabric seat with two leg holes. In the US, baby walkers are responsible for about 2000 injuries annually to children serious enough to require a trip to the emergency room, prompting calls from pediatricians for their outright ban. \n\nMany parents believe that such walkers teach a child to walk faster. However, they may actually delay walking by two to three weeks for a typical child. The amount of use matters; for every 24 hours babies spend in a baby walker (for example, one hour per day for 24 days), they learn to walk three days later and to stand four days later than they would have.\n\nBaby walkers have also led to many preventable injuries caused by tripping, toppling over, or skidding on wet floors.\n\nThe U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, American Academy of Pediatrics, Kids In Danger, and other organizations have issued warnings to discourage parents from using baby walkers. Direct education of parents in a medical setting reduces parents' willingness to use these devices.\n\nIn Canada, the sale of baby walkers was banned on April 7, 2004. Canada is the first country in the world to ban the sale, importation and advertisement of baby walkers. This ban extends to modified and second hand baby walkers, including those sold at a yard sales or flea markets. The Consumers Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) changed the items that were allowed to be sold at such sales. Owners of baby walkers may be fined up to CA $100,000 or sentenced to up to six months in jail.\nIn the United States, annual baby-walker-related injuries dropped from around 21,000 in 1990 to around 3,200 in 2003, attributed to publicity about the danger of such devices and voluntary safety improvements by manufacturers. Eight babies died from such injuries between 2004 and 2008. Annual injuries dropped a further 23% after mandatory U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission standards (adopted in 2010) went into effect, including testing requirements and brakes to prevent stair falls.\n\nParent-assisted baby walkers were developed as an alternative to traditional baby walkers. These types of baby walkers differ greatly from traditional baby walkers as they have no wheels and require full parent assistance while in use. The design of modern parent-assisted baby walkers is similar to leading strings in that the child is suspended upright from straps while learning to walk. Parent-assisted baby walkers offer a safer method for teaching a child to walk over traditional baby walkers that can be unattended while in use.\n\nThere are also immobile play centers (baby jumpers), which look very similar to baby walkers, but which have no wheels. Baby Jumpers works on the strength of the baby’s legs as they essentially push or jump themselves up from the ground. Consequently, the baby is unable to move to dangerous locations.\n\nSome toys with wheels are designed for young children to hold on to while they are walking.\n\nBaby walkers were known as early as the 15th century in Europe. An illumination in the Hours of Catherine of Cleves, a Dutch manuscript from that time, depicts the infant Jesus in a wooden baby walker.\n\n\"Go-cart\" was a common historical name for the wheeled version. Other alternatives were also used. A baby-runner was a padded wooden ring, set at the height of the baby's waist, on a pole that was fixed into the floor and ceiling. The baby was placed inside the ring and able to move in a circle around the pole. This prevented the baby from reaching dangerous places, such as hot ovens.\n"}
{"id": "1817192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817192", "title": "W. Francis McBeth", "text": "W. Francis McBeth\n\nWilliam Francis McBeth (March 9, 1933 – January 6, 2012) was an American composer, whose wind band works are highly respected. His primary musical influences included Clifton Williams, Bernard Rogers, and Howard Hanson. The popularity of his works in the United States during the last half of the twentieth century led to many invitations and appearances as a guest conductor, where he often conducted the premiere performances of some of his compositions, the majority of which were commissioned. His conducting activities took him to forty-eight states, three Canadian provinces, Japan, and Australia; and for a number of years he was principal conductor of the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra in the capital of Little Rock. At one time, his \"Double Pyramid Balance System\" was a widely used pedagogical tool in the concert band world.\n\nFrom 1957 until his retirement in 1996, McBeth taught at Ouachita Baptist University in Arkadelphia, Arkansas.\n\nMcBeth was born in Ropesville, Texas (near Lubbock). His parents were Joseph Phinis McBeth, a Baptist minister, and Lillie May Carpenter McBeth. McBeth had a brother, Harold, and a sister, Laura Fay. He had an early start to his musical training, studying piano with his mother and taking up the trumpet in the second grade. He graduated from Irving High School in Irving, Texas where he served as President of the IHS Senior Class of 1951, as well as President of Future Farmers of America. He lettered in football and track and was a member of the tiger band and choir. Mary Sue White McBeth, wife of Francis, was also in the Irving High Tiger Band class of 1951. He attended Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene, Texas. While an undergraduate at H-SU, McBeth played in the university band. From December 1952 to January 1953, the band traveled with U.S. Camp Shows to Europe. He also played string bass in a jazz combo, which was unusual for the time period due to widespread segregation throughout the South.\n\nMcBeth married Mary Sue White in 1953. They had a daughter, Laura and a son, Matthew. He served in the military from 1954 to 1956 with the 101st Airborne Band at Fort Jackson, South Carolina, and the 98th Army Band at Fort Rucker, Alabama. He was initiated into the University of Texas Alpha Iota chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia in 1957.\n\nIn 1962, McBeth conducted the Arkansas All-State Band, with future president Bill Clinton playing in the tenor saxophone section. He served as the third conductor of the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra from 1970 until 1973. He died on January 6, 2012 (age 78) in Arkadelphia, Arkansas.\n\nThe most outstanding of his awards have been the Presley Award at Hardin-Simmons University in 1954, the Howard Hanson Prize at the Eastman School of Music for his Third Symphony in 1963, recipient of an ASCAP Special Award each consecutive year from 1965 to present, the American School Band Directors Association's Edwin Franko Goldman Award in 1983, elected Fellow of the American Wind and Percussion Artists by the National Band Association in 1984, National Citation from Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia fraternity in 1985, in 1988 Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia's Charles E. Lutton Man of Music Award for his achievement and continued contribution to American music, Kappa Kappa Psi's Distinguished Service to Music Medal in 1989, Mid-West International Band and Orchestra Clinic's Medal of Honor in 1993, the John Philip Sousa Foundations Sudler Medal of Honor in 1999, and Past President of the American Bandmasters Association. In 1975 McBeth was appointed Composer Laureate of the State of Arkansas by the Governor, the first Composer Laureate named in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817202", "title": "Bentley, Hampshire", "text": "Bentley, Hampshire\n\nBentley is a village and civil parish in the East Hampshire district of Hampshire, England. The parish has changed little over centuries and currently measures , the same size it measured in 1875. when the population was 731 The village is south of the A31 road between Farnham and Alton, about five miles (8 km) southwest of Farnham and six miles (10 km) northeast of Alton. The village is served by Bentley railway station, which is about one mile (1.6 km) to the south, in the parish of Binsted against Alice Holt Forest.\n\nThere are two pubs in the village: \"The Star Inn\" (named after a car) and \"The Bull Inn\".\n\nBentley was the location of a Radio 4 and ITV Docu-Drama from the 1990s called \"The Village\", which focused on local residents and their daily lives.\n\nTwinned with Newton Haven the village is proud of its culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817203", "title": "Aviemore Speyside railway station", "text": "Aviemore Speyside railway station\n\nAviemore (Speyside) railway station is an old station in Aviemore, Scotland that closed in July 1998. It was the main terminus on the Strathspey Railway which is still open as a heritage railway and tourist attraction. The station was built in the late 1970s from components from Dalnaspidal, a station on the Highland Main Line closed as part of the Beeching Axe. When the Strathspey Railway was founded, British Rail refused access to Aviemore railway station and the company was forced to construct its own terminus up the line in the railway yard.\n\nThe role of the station came to an end when, in the 1990s, the Aviemore Centre came to be redeveloped. An effort was launched to bring the village's most popular tourist attraction closer to the centre of the village. Meanwhile, then station owner Railtrack was seeking to cover some of the maintenance backlog on its estate. When all the parties had agreed, the redevelopment went ahead. When the refurbished main line station was opened, Aviemore Speyside fell out of regular use, though it was at first retained as a fallback in case of problems with Network Rail.\n\nIn July 2013 the station building was dismantled and transported to Inshriach House, 3 miles (5 km) to the south of Aviemore. It is planned to rebuild the station as a recording studio. The site is now used as a coal bunker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817212", "title": "Pilgrim House", "text": "Pilgrim House\n\nThe term Pilgrim House is a term used by Baháʼís to signify buildings where pilgrims are (or were) greeted and housed during pilgrimage to the Baháʼí holy places.\n\nThere have been numerous buildings within Haifa, Israel dedicated to this, including \"4 Haparsim Street\" (the original Western Pilgrim House), \"10 Haparsim Street\" (the second Western Pilgrim House), the \"Haifa Pilgrim House\" (also known as the Eastern Pilgrim House), and the \"Pilgrim Reception Centre\".\n\nAnother pilgrim house is located at Bahjí, near the Shrine of Baháʼu'lláh.\n\nThe original Western Pilgrim House, located at 4 Haparsim Street in Haifa, Israel, was used a Pilgrim House for members of the Baháʼí Faith of Western origin who had come for pilgrimage during the early years of the 20th century, before it was replaced by 10 Haparsim Street.\n\nThe house is currently part of the Baháʼí World Centre. While it was originally rented to serve as a Pilgrim House, the house was then bought by ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. After being replaced by new Western Pilgrim House, the site was then used by members of the Baháʼí holy family. It left Baháʼí hands shortly before being re-bought by the Universal House of Justice.\n\nIt was at 4 Haparsim Street that Shoghi Effendi gave Mary Maxwell, who he would later marry, the title Amatu'l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khanum. It is now a pilgrimage site for Baháʼís.\n\nThe second Western Pilgrim House, often referred to as \"the old western pilgrim house\", located at 10 Haparsim Street in Haifa, Israel, was used a Pilgrim House for members of the Baháʼí Faith who had come for pilgrimage during the first half of the 20th century. It is currently part of the Baháʼí World Centre and used by the Baháʼí International Community Secretariat and related offices.\n\nThe house was originally paid for by Amelia Collins, a wealthy American Baháʼí, who felt the facilities of the previous Westerner's pilgrim house at 4 Haparsim were inadequate. Its construction was started under the instruction of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, but was only completed during the time that Shoghi Effendi was the head of the Baháʼí Faith. Although it served originally as the Pilgrim house for the westerners, it has been used for other purposes more recently:\n\n\nAs of 2005, it is currently included in the pilgrimage run by the Baháʼí World Centre\n\nThe Eastern Pilgrim House or the \"Haifa Pilgrim House\" is a Pilgrim House for Baháʼís when they go on pilgrimage. The house was built after ʻAbdu'l-Bahá interred the remains of the Báb on Mount Carmel. The construction of this stone building was supervised Mírzá Jaʼfar Rahmání of ʻIshqábád, who also paid all the expenses. It is known as the \"Eastern Pilgrim House\", as for decades it housed the Persian pilgrims. After 1951, when the Western Pilgrim House at 10 Haparsim Street became the seat of the International Baháʼí Council, it became the Pilgrim House for all pilgrims. In 1969 the decision was taken to accommodate pilgrims in hotels, so that the Pilgrim House could be converted into a pilgrim centre.\n\nThe Pilgrim Reception Centre or the \"Haifa Pilgrim Reception Centre\" is the newest Pilgrim Reception Centre for pilgrimage to sites near the Baháʼí World Centre. It is composed of two conjoined buildings, of a historic medical clinic, that have recently been remodeled. In October 2000 this new Reception Centre, which can accommodate up to 500 people, opened.\nThe reasons for having separate Pilgrim Houses for the Western and Eastern Baháʼís are due to the different cultures of the pilgrim's backgrounds. Examples may include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817215", "title": "Limerick West (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Limerick West (Dáil constituency)\n\nLimerick West was a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas from 1948 to 2011. The constituency elected 3 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs). The method of election was the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nThe constituency was created under the Electoral (Amendment) Act 1947 for the 1948 general election. It succeeded the constituency of Limerick, which was divided between Limerick West and Limerick East. It was located in the western and southern part of County Limerick. It was a rural constituency, including the towns of Abbeyfeale, Askeaton, Newcastle West and Rathkeale.\n\nIn some elections, such as in 1981 and 1982, only Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael candidates appeared on the ballot. A Progressive Democrats candidate was elected in 1987; this was the only time a candidate from a party other than Fianna Fáil or Fine Gael was elected in the constituency. No candidate from a left-wing party was ever elected there.\n\nAt the 2011 general election the constituency was replaced by the constituencies of Limerick and Kerry North–West Limerick. The western part of the constituency became part of Kerry North–West Limerick, while the remainder, along with most of the rural parts of Limerick East, was transferred to the Limerick constituency.\n\nIn the final count Dan Neville beat Michael Finucane by only one vote to win the last seat.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD James Collins, a by-election was held on 9 November 1967. The seat was won by the Fianna Fáil candidate Gerry Collins, son of the deceased TD.\n\nFollowing the death of Fine Gael TD David Madden, a by-election was held on 13 December 1955. The seat was won by the Fianna Fáil candidate Michael Colbert.\n"}
{"id": "1817218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817218", "title": "End of the Road (Boyz II Men song)", "text": "End of the Road (Boyz II Men song)\n\n\"End of the Road\" is a single song recorded by American R&B group Boyz II Men for the \"Boomerang\" soundtrack. It was released in 1992 and was written by Kenneth \"Babyface\" Edmonds, Antonio L.A. Reid and Daryl Simmons.\n\n\"End of the Road\" achieved overwhelming domestic and international success. Also it is considered one of the most successful songs of all time. In the United States, \"End of the Road\" spent a then record breaking 13 weeks at number one on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, a record broken later in the year by Whitney Houston's 14-week number one hit \"I Will Always Love You\"; Boyz II Men would later match Houston's record with \"I'll Make Love to You\", which spent 14 weeks at number one in 1994, and then reclaim the record with \"One Sweet Day\" (a duet with Mariah Carey), which spent 16 weeks at number one from 1995 to 1996.\n\n\"End of the Road\" was the number one single of 1992 on the \"Billboard\" Year-End Hot 100 Singles of 1992. It is ranked by \"Billboard\" as the sixth most successful song of the decade 1990–1999. It is also ranked at number 55 on \"Billboard\"s \"All Time Top 100 Songs\".\n\nInternationally, \"End of the Road\" reached number one in Australia, United Kingdom and the Hot 100 Eurochart, among others.\n\n\"End of the Road\" has been certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for shipments of over one million units in the United States. The song also won Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals and Best R&B Song at the 1993 Grammy Awards.\n\n\"End of the Road\" was released on June 30, 1992. It was released as a single from the \"Boomerang\" soundtrack and did not originally appear on Boyz II Men's debut album, \"Cooleyhighharmony\". It was released after all singles from their debut had been released, and was their fifth single overall. However, \"Cooleyhighharmony\" was re-issued in 1992 and 1993 to include \"End of the Road\" due to the success of the single.\n\n\"End of the Road\" debuted at number 53 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on July 18, 1992, jumping to number 30 the following week. The next week the song reached the top ten at number 8, and reached the top five the week after at number 4. The following week, the song peaked at number one, holding the position for 13 consecutive weeks from August 15, 1992 to November 7, 1992. On November 14, the song was finally succeeded by \"How Do You Talk To An Angel\" by The Heights. It also spent four weeks atop of the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.\n\nEurope/UK/Australia CD \n\n7\" single\n\nCassette single\n\n1993 Grammy Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1817223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817223", "title": "List of Monterrey Metro stations", "text": "List of Monterrey Metro stations\n\nThe following is the list of the 31 stations of the Monterrey Metro system (also referred to as Metrorrey) of Monterrey, Nuevo León, México, organized by line.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817227", "title": "Christopher Scheer", "text": "Christopher Scheer\n\nChristopher Scheer (born September 8, 1968) is an American writer, and the co-author, with Robert Scheer and Lakshmi Chaudhry, of \"The Five Biggest Lies Bush Told Us About Iraq\", published in 2003 in the U.S., England and Australia. The book appeared on the \"Los Angeles Times\" bestseller list and was a part of the national debate in 2004 about the then still popular Iraq War. In 2010, he received co-author credit, with his father, on \"The Great American Stickup\", which also appeared on the \"Los Angeles Times\" bestseller list. In 2016, he received co-author credit for \",\" with Narda Zacchino.\n\nScheer was born in Berkeley, California. His parents are Anne Butterfield Weills and journalist Robert Scheer.\n\nA graduate of Berkeley High School (1985) and UC Santa Barbara (1990), he co-founded and edited \"Prognosis\", an English-language newspaper in Prague. Later, he worked with Oliver Stone as a creative consultant on the Academy-award nominated script for \"Nixon\", as well as several unproduced scripts. \n\nAfter working as an editor at \"The San Francisco Examiner\" for several years, as well as writing for \"The Nation\", the \"Los Angeles Times\" and other publications, he launched the news/activism website Workingforchange.com for Working Assets, then moved on to become the managing editor of the alternative news site, Alternet. Currently, he teaches debate, mock trial, and journalism at Skyline High School in Oakland, California. He is the advisor for Skyline's national award winning student newspaper \"The Oracle\".\n"}
