{"id": "1849477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849477", "title": "Qazi Hussain Ahmad", "text": "Qazi Hussain Ahmad\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad (; born 12 January 1938 – 6 January 2013) was an Islamic scholar, clergyman, democracy activist, and former Emir of Jamaat-e-Islami, the socially conservative Islamist political party in Pakistan.\n\nHe was a strong critic of and was widely known for his opposition to the United States' participation in the war against the Taliban in neighbouring Afghanistan.\n\nQazi was born in 1938 in the house of \"Maulana Qazi Muhammad Abdul Rab\" at Ziarat Kaka Sahib, Nowshera District, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.\n\nA teacher by profession, Maulana was appointed as the President of Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Hind for its Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa branch before 1947. Qazi Hussain Ahmed was the youngest among his ten siblings.\n\nAfter having completed early education at home, Qazi Hussain Ahmad was admitted to Islamia College, Peshawar and got his Master of Science (MSc) degree in Geography from Peshawar University. He served as a lecturer at Jehanzeb College Swat for three years, teaching at the graduate level. After that, he started his own business. He was elected as Vice-President, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (Provincial) Chamber of commerce and industry. Living in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa gave him some familiarity with political affairs in neighboring Afghanistan.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmed had two sons (Asif Luqman Qazi and Anas Farhan Qazi) and two daughters. His wife and children all are Jamaat-e-Islami activists. He spoke Urdu, English, Arabic, Persian, in addition to his native tongue, Pashto. He was a great admirer of the poet Allama Muhammad Iqbal and employed quotes from both Iqbal's Urdu and Persian poetry in his speeches and conversations.\n\nHis association with the \"Islamic Movement\" started in his school days when he first joined Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba, Pakistan. He became member of Jamaat-e-Islami in 1970 and was elected to the office of President of its Peshawar branch. He served Jamaat-e-Islami as Secretary and then Ameer of its Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provincial branch. After the resignation of Maulana Naeem Siddiqui, he was promoted to the office of Secretary General, Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan in 1978. and then elected as Ameer (Chief) of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan in 1987, continued to serve in that capacity, getting re-elected four more times (1992, 1994, 1999 and 2003). In 2008, Syed Munawwar Hasan was elected to head Jamaat-e-Islami, when Qazi Hussain Ahmad chose not to run for the office. Qazi Hussain Ahmad remained head of Jamaat-e-Islami for nearly 22 years.\n\nIn the Parliament of Pakistan, he also served as the parliamentary leader of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal.\n\nWithin Pakistan, he was a patron of organisations such as Pasban and founder of Shabab e Milli, youth wing of Jamaat-e-Islami.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad was first elected as member of the Senate of Pakistan in 1986 for a term of six years. He was re-elected for that position in March 1992. To protest against the corrupt political system, he resigned as a Senator in 1996. He was elected as a Member of National Assembly in the 2002 Pakistani general election from his native town, Nowshera.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad traveled abroad widely to represent the Jamaat at the international forums, lead goodwill missions, and in a personal capacity to mediate in issues concerning Muslims, such as the Iran–Iraq War and the Persian Gulf War, the Balkan (Bosnia) crisis and the post-Soviet power struggle in Afghanistan. Even before the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, Qazi Hussain Ahmad was in close contact with Afghan mujahideen and met with top Afghan leaders. He helped build support in Pakistan for the movement and introduce the Afghan jihad to the outside world.\n\nHe was a staunch supporter of the Kashmiri insurgency against India and the initiator of the Kashmir Solidarity Day.\n\nOn 20 July 1996, Qazi Hussain Ahmad announced to start protests against the government alleging corruption. Qazi Hussain resigned from the senate on 27 September and announced to start a long march against the Benazir's government. Protests started on 27 October 1996 by Jamaat e Islami and the opposition parties. On 4 November 1996, Benazir Bhutto's government was dismissed by President Farooq Leghari primarily because of corruption.\n\nQazi Hussain Ahmad died on 6 January 2013 at one of his son's house in Islamabad, Pakistan. The cause of his death was heart attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849497", "title": "Treaty of Ribe", "text": "Treaty of Ribe\n\nThe Treaty of Ribe ( meaning The Ribe letter; ) was a proclamation at Ribe made in 1460 by King Christian I of Denmark to a number of Holsatian nobles enabling himself to become Count of Holstein and regain control of Denmark's lost Duchy of Schleswig (Danish: \"Sønderjylland\", i.e. \"South Jutland\"). The most famous line of the proclamation was that the Danish Duchy of Schleswig and the County of Holstein within the Holy Roman Empire, should now be, in the original Middle Low German language, \"Up Ewig Ungedeelt\", or \"Forever Undivided\". This was to assume great importance as the slogan of German nationalists in the struggles of the 19th century, under completely different circumstances.\n\nThe proclamation was issued in 1460 and declared that the King of Denmark should also be Duke of Schleswig and Count of Holstein. Another clause granted the nobility the right to revolt should the king break the agreement (a common feature of several medieval coronation charters). The agreement was most straightforward in regard to the future of Holstein, since King Christian I merely added the title of count to his existing titles. He was forbidden from annexing Holstein to Denmark and Holstein retained its independence and its position as a afterlehen of Saxe-Lauenburg (which, as part of the former Saxony, inherited this right), indirectly under the Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nRegarding the future of Schleswig, the agreement seems at first sight to contradict itself: the Danish king became Duke of Schleswig, a Danish fief, in effect becoming his own vassal. This arrangement should be seen as a guarantee against excessive Danish domination of the new union, whilst safeguarding against the partitioning of Holstein among Danish nobles.\n\nThe most obvious result of this distinction was the exclusion of Schleswig in subsequent Danish laws, although the medieval Danish Code of Jutland (Danish: \"Jyske Lov\") was retained as Schleswig's legal code. Another important, but much later, development was the gradual introduction of German-speaking administrators in the duchy resulting in a gradual but permanent Germanisation of the southern part of the province. German culture first spread in the cities, most probably as a result of the presence of merchants from the Hanseatic League. The process was greatly accelerated following the Lutheran Reformation, which introduced German liturgy in the churches in southern Schleswig - although the vernacular in most of this area was Danish. The major breakthrough of the process of Germanisation, however, did not occur until the end of the eighteenth century.\n\nFrom the beginning of Danish history, the direct border to the mighty Frankish Empire posed a strategic threat to Danish independence. In fact, many historians have seen the construction of the first border fortifications, known as the \"Danevirke\", as the first proof of the beginning of an independent Danish state. The border was challenged from both sides; Charlemagne sought to conquer Denmark, and Danish kings supported Saxons wishing to cast off the Frankish rule. Despite minor wars, a border was relatively quickly established at the River Eider. This border, which Denmark later considered to be its \"natural border\" is exemplified in a stone once set in the walls of Rendsburg (), a city on the border between Schleswig and Holstein. The stone had the following inscription: \"Eidora Terminus Imperii Romani (The Roman Empire ends at the Eider)\"\n\nDuring the early Middle Ages, a number of nobles from Holstein tried to expand their influence across the border into Schleswig. Most notably of these were the Counts of Schauenburg and Holstein ruling Holstein. The border was also challenged by a number of Danish kings, most notably King Valdemar the Victorious who sought to obtain control of Northern Germany, then a part of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\n1214 marked an important step in this process, when the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II issued a Golden Bull surrendering all imperial territories north of the rivers Elbe and Elde to Valdemar the Victorious. An action provoking many Holsatian nobles. In 1223, the fates were reversed when Henry I, Count of Schwerin (a.k.a. \"Heinrich der Schwarze\") abducted Valdemar and his eldest son and imprisoned them in the Waldemarturm of Dannenberg Castle. Henry demanded that Valdemar should surrender all of his conquests in the Holy Roman Empire and instead swear allegiance to the Holy Roman Emperor. In fact, Emperor Frederick II tried to intervene and arrange Valdemar's release, but he was rebuffed by Count Henry.\n\nHenry's terms were flatly refused by the Danish envoys sent to negotiate the release of their king, and Danish nobles decided to attack Henry. The war ended in 1225 in Danish defeat. Valdemar was now forced to not only surrender his conquests in the Holy Roman Empire but also to take an oath not to seek revenge. Henry released him in 1226 and Valdemar immediately appealed to Pope Honorius III to have his oath declared void, a request granted by the Pope. In 1226, Valdemar returned with an army and attacked the Schauenburgers in Holstein.\n\nHe used the utmost diligence in collecting an army, with which he entered Holstein, and, in the terms of the treaty concluded with his nephew Otto I, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, he was joined by Otto and the troops of Brunswick. Their united forces formed a very respectable array, and they took and destroyed a number of towns, and had recovered a great part of the County of Holstein, when they were opposed by Schauenburg Count Adolf IV of Holstein, who had been joined by his liege lord Albert I, Duke of Saxony and Prince-Archbishop Gerhard II of Bremen. The two armies were nearly of equal strength, and as both parties were anxious to try the issue of a general battle, they were not long in coming to an engagement. The field chosen for this action, was in the neighborhood of the town of Bornhöved in Holstein.\n\nOn 22 July 1227, the two armies clashed in the Battle of Bornhöved. The battle was a decisive victory for Count Adolf IV of Holstein, in part owed to a number of troops from Dithmarschen who abandoned the Danish army during the battle. In the following peace settlement, Valdemar definitively gave up the hope of ever regaining his former possessions in the northern Holy Roman Empire (Northern Germany).\n\nThe next major turn of events took place in the early fourteenth century, as a result of the bankruptcy of the Danish state. This century saw Schleswig being dominated by a more Holstein-born or Low Saxon-speaking nobility. These local lords sought to keep Schleswig independent of the king and to forge close ties to Holstein within the Holy Roman Empire. This pursuit of autonomy would have effects for centuries to come.\n\nThe bankruptcy of Denmark resulted in a rising influence of the King's creditors (mostly Holsatian nobles) in all parts of the country. In 1326, King Valdemar III of Denmark - by many Danish regarded as a usurper - was forced by the nobility of Schleswig and Holstein to sign the \"Constitutio Valdemaria\" promising that \"the Duchy of Schleswig and the Kingdom of Denmark may never be united under the same ruler\", a first precursor to the Treaty of Ribe. Schleswig was consequently granted as a fief to Count Gerhard III of Holstein-Rendsburg, the leader of one of the then four Holstein lines of the Schauenburg dynasty. By 1327, virtually all strongholds in Denmark had fallen under the control of Holsatian noblemen. In 1330, Valdemar III of Denmark abdicated his untenable kingship and returned to his former position as Duke Valdemar V of Schleswig). As compensation, Gerhard was awarded the island of Funen as a fief instead. In 1331 war broke out between Gerhard and the new king, Christopher II, ending in a Holstein-Rensburg victory. The peace terms were extremely harsh. King Christopher was only left in effective control of the island of Langeland and was faced with an impossible task of raising 100,000 silver marks to redeem his country. Denmark had effectively been dissolved and the country was left without a king between 1332 and 1340.\n\nIn 1340, King Valdemar IV of Denmark began a more-than-twenty-year-long struggle to reclaim his father's kingdom. Although eventually succeeding in regaining control of Zealand, Funen, Jutland, and the Scanian lands, he failed to obtain control of Schleswig, whose ducal House of Estridsen managed to continue its virtual independence. To gain influence over the province, Valdemar married Helvig of Schleswig, the only daughter of Duke Eric II of Schleswig. In 1372, he again turned his attention to Schleswig and conquered Gram. In 1373, he conquered Flensburg. The southern part of Schleswig had been mortgaged to a number of Holsatian nobles by Duke Henry of Schleswig (d 1375, a son of the former king Valdemar III of Denmark), the last duke of the Estridsen line. The childless, elderly Henry transferred his rights to his kinsman and brother-in-law, King Valdemar IV in 1373. This seemed a clear success for the king, but the Holsatian nobles refused to allow him to repay the mortgage and redeem the area in question. In 1374, Valdemar succeeded in buying large tracts of land in the province and was on the verge of starting a campaign to conquer the rest when he died on 24 October 1374. The nobles acted quickly and managed to establish control over the province in 1376. In 1386, Queen Margaret I of Denmark, the younger daughter of Valdemar IV of Denmark and Helvig of Schleswig, gave Schleswig as a hereditary fief under the Danish crown to Count Gerhard VI of Holstein-Rendsburg, provided that he swore allegiance to her son King Oluf. She too was unsuccessful in regaining effective control of the province.\n\nIn 1409, Margaret's adopted son and Denmark's future king, Eric of Pomerania forced the Schauenburgers to surrender the city of Flensburg to him. War broke out in 1410, and Eric conquered the islands of Als and Ærø. In 1411, Holstein-Rendsburg, which until 1403 had incorporated all Schauenburg lines except of Pinneberg, retook Flensburg, but in 1412 both sides agreed that an arbiter should settle the dispute, Ulrich I, Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard. Ulrich awarded the city to Denmark, and Queen Margaret took possession of it. During her stay in Flensburg, she was struck by the plague and died shortly after. War returned and a new mediation attempt was undertaken in 1416 by the Hanseatic League. Both sides recognised the League as arbitrators and Denmark pledged the city of Schleswig as security; the Holstein-Rendsburg pledged the stronghold of Tönning, but the mediation attempts were in vain. In 1421, the Holsteiners succeeded in regaining the cities of Haderslev, Schleswig, and Tønder.\n\nIn 1422, both sides recognised Duke Henry X of Silesia (also known as duke \"Heinrich Rumpold\"), envoy of the Holy Roman Emperor, as arbitrator. He managed to persuade the Schauenburgers to call off a planned attack on Flensburg, but died on 18 January 1423 before reaching a verdict. His master, Emperor Sigismund, now wished to settle the issue, a decision strongly opposed by the Schauenburgers. He called upon Louis of Cattaneis from Verona to travel to the disputed province and investigate the case.\n\nA similar process took place in Denmark. The Assemblies of both Lund, Ringsted, and Ribe all reached the conclusion that Schleswig was governed by Danish laws and formed part of Denmark. The decision made by the Assembly of Ribe on 4 August 1421 is of particular interest, since both the bishops of Ribe and Schleswig, the abbots from the monasteries of Ryd (modern Glücksburg) and Løgum as well as councillors from Flensburg, Aabenraa, Haderslev, and Ribe were all present. The assembly ruled that Schleswig was part of Denmark with the following argument \"... the (people) of Southern Jutland use Danish law and have kept it since it was given. Second, all the old rights granted upon the chapels and House of God in Schleswig, Ribe, and Haderslev were given by the kings of the Realm. Thirdly, every man knows where the borders are located, that Denmark and Holstein are separated; even the language in Southern Jutland is Danish to this day.\"\n\nIn 1424, a similar decision was made by Emperor Sigismund who decided that since his envoy had reported that the people of Schleswig spoke Danish, followed Danish customs, and considered themselves to be Danes, the province rightfully belonged to Denmark. Henry IV, Count of Holstein-Rendsburg and Duke of Schleswig, strongly protested this verdict and refused to follow it.\n\nWar returned in 1425. In 1431, a group of burghers in favour of Holstein-Rendsburg opened the gates of Flensburg and a Holsatian army took control of the city. In 1432, peace was settled, and Eric recognised the conquests made by the Holsatian nobles.\n\nIn 1439, the new Danish king Christopher III (a.k.a. Christopher of Bavaria) acquired the loyalty of Count Adolf VIII of Holstein-Rendsburg by granting him the entire Duchy of Schleswig as a hereditary fief but under the Danish crown. In 1459, Adolf died without leaving an heir and no other count could produce claims to both the Duchy of Schleswig and the County of Holstein-Rendsburg. King Christian I of Denmark did however hold a claim to Schleswig, and the separation of Schleswig and Holstein would have meant economic ruin for many members of the Schleswig and Holstein nobility. Moreover, the nobility failed to agree on taking a course. In 1460, King Christian summoned the nobles to Ribe, and on 2 March 1460, they agreed to elect him as the successor of Count Adolf and new count of Holstein. Their main motivation was to prevent the separation of the two provinces. On 5 March, Christian granted a coronation charter (or \"Freiheitsbrief\") which repeated that Schleswig and Holstein must remain united \"dat se bliven ewich tosamende ungedelt\".\n\nBy this action, Christian managed to gain control of the county of Holstein-Rendsburg within the Empire, but the price was a permanent link between two provinces, one Danish and one of the Holy Roman Empire. In 1474 Emperor Frederick III elevated Christian as Count of Holstein-Rendsburg to Duke of Holstein, thus becoming an immediate imperial vassal (see imperial immediacy). The smaller Holstein-Pinneberg remained a county further ruled by the House of Schauenburg until seized by the duchy in 1640.\n\nThe proclamation later played an important role in the nineteenth century during the nationalist awakening in both the German Confederation and Denmark. German nationalists, seeking the Unification of Germany, cited the Treaty of Ribe and wished to integrate the ethnically mixed Schleswig as well as the all-German Holstein, which until 1806 had been part of the Holy Roman Empire and then was part of the German Confederation, into a new German Empire. Danes refused to abandon Schleswig and sought to integrate the duchy into the Danish kingdom. The status of Holstein as part of the confederacy, on the other hand, was not questioned. This dispute culminated in two wars, the First War of Schleswig in 1848–1851 and the Second War of Schleswig in 1864.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849503", "title": "File attribute", "text": "File attribute\n\nFile attributes are a type of meta-data that describe and may modify how files and/or directories in a filesystem behave. Typical file attributes may, for example, indicate or specify whether a file is visible, modifiable, compressed, or encrypted. The availability of most file attributes depends on support by the underlying filesystem (such as FAT, NTFS, Ext4) \nwhere attribute data must be stored along with other control structures. Each attribute can have one of two states: set and cleared. Attributes are considered distinct from other metadata, such as dates and times, filename extensions or file system permissions. In addition to files, folders, volumes and other file system objects may have attributes.\n\nTraditionally, in DOS and Microsoft Windows, files and folders accepted four attributes:\n\nAs new versions of Windows came out, Microsoft has added to the inventory of available attributes on the NTFS file system, including but not limited to:\n\nOther attributes that are displayed in the \"Attributes\" column of Windows Explorer include:\n\nIn DOS, OS/2 and Windows, the codice_3 command in cmd.exe and command.com can be used to change and display the four traditional file attributes. File Explorer in Windows can show the seven mentioned attributes but cannot set or clear the System attribute. Windows PowerShell, which has become a component of Windows 7 and later, features two commands that can read and write attributes: codice_4 and codice_5. To change an attribute on a file on Windows NT, the user must have appropriate file system permissions known as \"Write Attributes\" and \"Write Extended Attributes\".\n\nIn Unix and Unix-like systems, including POSIX-conforming systems, each file has a 'mode' containing 9 bit flags controlling read, write and execute permission for each of the file's owner, group and all other users (see File system permissions §Traditional Unix permissions for more details) plus the \"setuid\" and \"setgid\" bit flags and a 'sticky' bit flag.\nThe mode also specifies the file type (regular file, directory, or some other special kind).\n\nIn 4.4BSD and 4.4BSD-Lite, files and directories (folders) accepted four attributes that could be set by the owner of the file or the superuser (the \"User\" attributes) and two attributes that could only be set by the superuser (the \"System\" attributes):\n\nFreeBSD added some additional attributes, also supported by DragonFly BSD:\n\nFreeBSD also supports:\n\nwhereas DragonFly BSD supports:\n\nNetBSD added another attribute, also supported by OpenBSD:\n\nmacOS added three attributes:\n\nIn these systems, the codice_6 and codice_7 commands can be used to change and display file attributes. To change a \"user\" attribute on a file in 4.4BSD-derived operating systems, the user must be the owner of the file or the superuser; to change a \"system\" attribute, the user must be the superuser.\n\nThe Linux operating system can support a wide range of file attributes that can be listed by the codice_8 command and modified, where possible, by the codice_9 commmand.\nPrograms can examine and alter attributes using ioctl operations.\n\nMany Linux file systems support only a limited set of attributes, and none of them support every attribute that codice_9 can change. File systems that support at least some attributes include ext4, XFS and btrfs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849507", "title": "Canyons Resort", "text": "Canyons Resort\n\nCanyons Resort was one of three alpine ski resorts located in Park City, Utah. Prior to 2015, there were 19 chairlifts, of skiable terrain and an average of of snow each winter, making Canyons the largest ski and snowboard resort in Utah. The base area is located 32 miles (51 km) from the Salt Lake City International Airport, accessed via Interstate 80, and is four miles (7 km) from Main Street in Park City, along State Route 224.\n\nIn the summer of 2010, Canyons was significantly upgraded by Talisker Corporation in order to compete with the other nearby resorts. In 2013, Talisker and Vail Resorts signed a 50-year lease for Vail to run the resort operations. One year later, Vail Resorts purchased neighboring Park City Mountain Resort and merged the two resorts via an interconnect gondola, re-branding as Park City at that time. The former Canyons base area was then renamed as Canyons Village at Park City.\n\nThe resort has also been used as a major concert venue hosting artists such as Heart, Meat Loaf, Barry Manilow, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Cheap Trick, Sheryl Crow, Bon Jovi, Sting, The B-52's and The Beach Boys.\n\nThe Canyons opened as Park City West in 1968, a sister resort to the nearby Park City Mountain Resort which opened five years earlier. It was renamed ParkWest in 1975 after a change in ownership, and the name was changed again in 1995 to Wolf Mountain (not to be confused with the small ski area of the same name near Ogden, Utah) for two seasons, then became The Canyons in 1997, after the acquisition by American Skiing Company. In 2007, American Skiing Company sold all of its assets and dissolved as an active corporation. The Canyons sale to Talisker Corporation was finalized in 2008.\n\nIn 2010, Talisker finished significant upgrades to the resort and officially changed the name to Canyons Resort. The upgrades included relocating the base terminal of Red Pine Gondola to a new gathering area called Ski Beach, installing two high speed quads (including Orange Bubble Express, the first chairlift in North America with heated seats), opening Iron Mountain and of new terrain, and many new dining and retail outlets.\n\nOn May 29, 2013, it was announced that Vail Resorts would operate Canyons under a 50-year lease, with six 50-year renewal options.\n\nVail Resort announced a plan to combine Canyons Resort with Park City Mountain Resort through an interconnect gondola between Iron Mountain at Canyons and the Silverlode lift at PCMR in 2015. The combined areas are operating as Park City Mountain Resort, but the former Canyons base area has been renamed Canyons Village at Park City. In addition, Vail has improved snowmaking and the mid-mountain chalet, Red Pine Lodge.\n\nIn 2018, High Meadow, a fixed grip quad servicing a learning area at Red Pine Lodge, was replaced with a high speed quad constructed by Doppelmayr. In 2019, an egress fixed grip quad known as Over and Out was installed to provide a direct return route from Tombstone and Iron Mountain back to the Canyons Village base area.\n\nPrior to its merger with Park City Mountain, Canyons Resort covered nine mountain peaks with maximum elevation of on Peak9990. The terrain had 182 trails, five bowls, six natural halfpipes, and three terrain parks. Side-mountain and backcountry skiing on the surrounding National Forest land could be accessed through gates found on some of the peaks. In 2010, Canyons began hosting part of the Sprint Grand Prix of Skicross and Snowboardcross, which lasted several consecutive years.\n\nIn the summer, Canyons Resort had an extensive trail and lift system open for mountain biking or hiking. The resort also operated two zip lines and a miniature golf course.\n\nAs with most four-season resorts, Canyons Resort had dining, shopping, and lodging options. The village also hosts concerts throughout the year at its outdoor amphitheater.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849529", "title": "Julia Tuttle", "text": "Julia Tuttle\n\nJulia DeForest Tuttle (née Sturtevant; January 22, 1849 – September 14, 1898) was an American businesswoman who owned the property upon which Miami, Florida, was built. For this reason, she is called the \"Mother of Miami.\" She is the only woman to found a major American city.\n\nJulia Sturtevant was the daughter of Ephraim Sturtevant, a Florida planter and state senator. She married Frederick Leonard Tuttle on January 22, 1867. They had two children: a daughter, Frances Emeline (b. 1868), and a son, Henry Ethelbert (b. 1870). Julia Tuttle first visited the Biscayne Bay region of southern Florida in 1875 with her husband, visiting a 40-acre (16 ha) orange grove her father had purchased. She loved the experience, but returned to Cleveland, Ohio, with her family.\n\nTuttle came to Fort Dallas, Florida, from Cleveland, Ohio, on a steamship after her father and mother had moved to South Florida. A little over ten years later, in 1886, her husband died; the foundry had already been sold. Upon his death, she found that her husband had not been good at managing money. This placed Julia in dire financial straits. To supplement her small income, she had to turn their four-story home into a boarding house and tearoom for young ladies. In 1890, when her father died and left her his land in Florida, she sold her home in Cleveland, Ohio and relocated to Biscayne Bay.\n\nTuttle used the money from her parents' estate to purchase the James Egan grant of , where the city of Miami is now located, on the north side of the river, including the old Fort Dallas stone buildings, and the two-story rock house built by Richard Fitzpatrick's slaves some 50 years earlier. This was converted into her home. In 1891, Tuttle brought her family to live there. She repaired and converted the home into one of the show places in the area with a sweeping view of the river and Biscayne Bay.\n\nTuttle immediately decided to take a leading role in the movement to start a new city on the Miami River, but knew that a decent transportation (in that time, a railroad) was necessary to attract development. Tuttle tried to induce Henry Flagler to extend his railroad to Fort Dallas (Miami), and offered to divide her large real estate holdings if he would do this. She wanted to extend it to that place because she wanted to make it easier to get around. She wrote numerous letters to Flagler in this connection and finally made the trip to St. Augustine and in person repeated her offer. Her efforts were of no avail at that time; however, providence favored Tuttle. The Great Freeze of 1894-1895 devastated the old orange belt of central and northern Florida, destroying valuable groves and wiping out fortunes overnight.\n\nEither Flagler then recalled Tuttle's story of the tropical Biscayne Bay weather and sent some men to investigate, or Tuttle alerted Flagler that the freeze had spared the Miami River, sending as evidence a bouquet of flowers and foliage (possibly oranges) to Flagler, whose order to extend the Florida East Coast Railway was then given. On February 15, 1896, Joseph B. Reilly, John Sewell, and E.G. Sewell, the vanguard of the Flagler forces, arrived, and the work of building the Royal Palm Hotel was commenced.\n\nUnder an agreement between the two, Tuttle supplied Flagler with the land for a hotel and a railroad station for free, and they split the remainder of her 640 acres (2.6 km²) north of the Miami River in alternating sections. On April 22, 1896, train service of the Florida East Coast Railway came to the area. On July 28, male residents voted to incorporate a new city, Miami. Thereafter, the city steadily grew from a small town to a metropolis.\n\nIn 1898, Tuttle fell ill with apparent meningitis. Plans were made to move her to Asheville, North Carolina, by rail for treatment, but her condition deteriorated before she could be transported. She died on September 14, 1898, at age 49. Her funeral took place at her Fort Dallas home, and she was buried in a place of honor at the City of Miami Cemetery.\n\nTuttle died leaving a large amount of debt, partly the result of her altruistic land grants to Flagler. Her children sold her remaining land to pay off the debt. For that reason, her name was mostly forgotten until it was placed on a causeway for Interstate 195 over Biscayne Bay. In contrast, the name of William Brickell, a large landowner on the south side of the Miami River who contributed to Tuttle's efforts to incorporate the city, was widely used on the south side of what became Miami.\n\nJust as Tuttle is called the Mother of Miami, Flagler became known as the Father of Miami. Coincidentally, both Tuttle and Flagler had previously lived in Cleveland, where they first met.\n\nIn addition to the Julia Tuttle Causeway, the memory of Tuttle has been honored with a sculpture in Bayfront Park, by Daub and Firmin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849543", "title": "Stuart Blanch", "text": "Stuart Blanch\n\nStuart Yarworth Blanch, Baron Blanch, (2 February 1918 – 3 June 1994) was an Anglican priest, bishop and archbishop. Little interested in religion in his youth, he became a committed Christian at the age of 21, while serving in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War.\n\nHe was ordained as a priest in 1949, and spent three years as a curate and five years as a vicar in and around Oxford where he had studied for the priesthood. He was vice principal of Wycliffe Hall, Oxford from 1957 to 1960, the founding head of Rochester Theological College from 1960 to 1966, Bishop of Liverpool from 1966 to 1975, and Archbishop of York from 1975 to 1983.\n\nBlanch was evangelical in outlook, but gained the trust of high church Anglicans, and also of Roman Catholics and nonconformists. He was well known as a lecturer and published ten books, most of them scholarly and theological.\n\nBlanch was born at Viney Hill Farm, Blakeney, Gloucestershire in the Forest of Dean, the youngest of three sons of a farmer, William Edwin Blanch, and his wife, Elizabeth, \"née\" Yarworth. William Blanch was killed in a shooting accident in 1923 and his widow and youngest child moved to London, where the two older sons were already living. Blanch attended Alleyn's School, Dulwich, winning a scholarship after the first year. His mother could not afford to pay for him to go to a university, and after leaving school at the age of 18 he started work. He would have preferred to become a journalist, but found that \"journalism in particular was hard to get into without contacts.\" He gained employment in the office of the Law Fire Insurance Society Ltd in Chancery Lane at a salary of £90 a year. He said later, \"The job taught me a great deal, not just about administration – how to write letters and so on – but how to deal with people from all walks of life.\"\n\nOn the outbreak of the Second World War Blanch enlisted in the Royal Air Force. He was on guard duty at Christmas at the RAF depot in Heaton Park (not, he later said, \"a prospect to quicken the pulse or engender much seasonal cheer\"), and for lack of anything else to read he read the New Testament thoroughly for the first time in his life, and his hitherto mild adherence to Christianity was turned into firm evangelical faith. \"This strange book spoke, its words glowed on the page, and I knew that from that moment my life was bound up for better or worse with the Man who is described there.\"\n\nIn the RAF he served as a corporal in the force's police, and then volunteered for aircrew duties. After training as a navigator, he was commissioned as a flight lieutenant. He flew reconnaissance missions over Burma from Calcutta. During this period he became an Anglican lay reader and sought ordination as a priest. In 1943 he married Brenda Gertrude Coyte. His biographer R H L Williams writes, \"Their years of wartime separation were bridged by a remarkable correspondence in which they explored their faith together.\"\n\nOn demobilisation Blanch was accepted for ordination training at Wycliffe Hall, Oxford. His ability impressed the principal, Canon J P Thornton-Duesbery, who arranged for him to be matriculated at St Catherine's Society. He obtained a first class degree in theology in 1948, and was ordained priest in 1949. After three years as a curate in the Oxford parish of Highfield, he was appointed vicar of Eynsham a few miles out of the city. He remained there for five years, building up a small congregation into a large one, described by \"The Times\" as \"thoroughly committed to Christian outreach.\" He formed close ties with the local Roman Catholic, Baptist, and Methodist churches. This was Blanch's only experience as a parish priest. While he was at Eynsham three of the Blanches' five children were born, all daughters. He was a part-time lecturer during this period, and his lectures on the New Testament led to an invitation to return to Wycliffe Hall as tutor and vice-principal to F J Taylor, who had succeeded Thornton-Duesbery as principal. Blanch took up the appointment in 1957\n\nThe chairman of the governing body of Wycliffe Hall was the Bishop of Rochester, Christopher Chavasse. Nearing the end of his twenty-year reign at Rochester, Chavasse wished it to culminate in the foundation of an evangelical theological college for mature students. He persuaded Blanch to become the founding head of the college and Oriel canon of Rochester Cathedral. Blanch was Warden of Rochester Theological College from 1960 to 1966. \"The Independent\"'s obituary of Blanch said of this period:\n\nDuring this period, the Blanches had a son and a daughter.\n\nIn 1966, the Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, invited Blanch to succeed Clifford Martin as Bishop of Liverpool. On opening Wilson's letter Blanch is said to have taken it for a prank by Rochester students. He was not altogether pleased by the offer. Because he had acquired his faith not from churchgoing but from his private reading of the New Testament, he was, in the words of \"The Independent\", \"uncoloured and uninfluenced by anything ecclesiastical and failed to see the relevance of much of it.\" The prospect of exchanging academic life for the complexities of a bishop's duties was daunting. \"The Times\" later said, \"He was at that time a bad chairman of committees and councils (he got better at it) and he knew there would be plenty of both. He did not know Lancashire. But he knew his duty and off he went to Merseyside.\" Aged 47 he was the youngest Anglican bishop of his day.\n\nIn the 1960s Liverpool underwent large-scale rehousing, with residents of inner city slums being moved to new housing estates on greenfield sites outside the city. Blanch supervised the resulting reorganisation of parishes and construction of new churches. The diocese was predominantly evangelical, but there was a substantial high church minority whose relations with some previous Bishops of Liverpool had been difficult. \"The Guardian\" said that one of Blanch's greatest achievements during his years in Liverpool (and later at York) was reconciling evangelical and high church Anglicans: \"it was universally acknowledged that he left behind him a peaceful and reconciled diocese.\" \"The Times\" comments that Blanch and his wife \"threw themselves into the richness of Liverpool life. He grew to love Scouse humour and resilience. He bicycled to work … he played squash most Saturday mornings … whenever he could, he went to listen to the Philharmonic concerts (Sir Charles Groves, the then conductor, becoming a firm friend).\"\n\nAs he had done as a parish priest at Eynsham, Blanch reached out to other Christian denominations. He established friendships and close working relationships with George Beck and Rex Kissack, respectively the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Liverpool and the chairman of the Liverpool Methodist District. They helped to end Liverpool's history of sectarian hostility, and fostered ecumenism in what became known as the \"Mersey miracle\", built upon by their successors.\n\nWhile Bishop of Liverpool, Blanch had numerous invitations to give lectures, as far afield as Alabama and Bermuda. The first of his ten books, \"The World our Orphanage\" (1972) was based on a series of lectures he gave in York.\n\nIn 1974 the Archbishop of Canterbury, Michael Ramsey announced his forthcoming retirement. His successor was the Archbishop of York, Donald Coggan, an evangelical. In view of the church's tradition of balance it was widely expected that Coggan's successor at York would be a higher churchman. The two candidates most tipped were Robert Runcie (Bishop of St Albans) and Kenneth Woollcombe (Bishop of Oxford). There was a long delay in making the appointment, and it was rumoured that at least three bishops had declined the post. \"The Times\" later named one of them as Runcie. The offer of the archbishopric to Blanch came as a surprise to him. He said that the Prime Minister's invitation \"came in one of those plain white envelopes that you open with caution. I am only now beginning to get over the shock.\" He told the press that he found the prospect daunting because he was at a loss with high formality, was not well up on central church administration and had not much political experience.\n\nBlanch was enthroned as ninety-fourth Archbishop of York on 25 February 1975. Of his years as Archbishop, Williams writes, \"A superb pastor, he presided over a happy diocese and travelled widely in his province. … No lover of bureaucracy, he was described as the most unecclesiastical of archbishops.\" One admirer, noting his common touch, said that he wore a flat cap underneath his mitre. In fact, as an evangelical, Blanch was not enthusiastic about vestments and seldom wore a mitre.\n\nBlanch's reputation as a theologian and lecturer continued to grow. \"The Guardian\" said of him, \"At York, Blanch emerged as one of the most thoughtful and touching preachers ever to occupy an archiepiscopal throne.\" Williams notes that while at York, Blanch made ten working trips abroad, carrying out engagements in fifteen countries, in Europe, Australasia, Asia and the Americas. Academically his strong point was Old Testament scholarship, and this enabled him to establish close ties with the Jewish community.\n\nIn 1981 Blanch suffered a breakdown in his health. He was absent from his ecclesiastical work for only a month, but thereafter, according to \"The Times\":\n\nHe resigned in 1983, and was the first retiring Archbishop of York to be made a life peer, being created Baron Blanch of Bishopthorpe in the County of North Yorkshire on 5 September 1983.\n\nBlanch retired to Oxfordshire, living first in Bloxham and then in Shenington. He conducted services at Shenington parish church, and continued to lecture and write. He made four more lecture trips abroad after retiring from York, and wrote two more books.\n\nBlanch died of cancer at a hospice in Banbury, Oxfordshire at the age of 76, and was buried in Shenington churchyard. He was survived by his wife, son, and three of the four daughters, the eldest predeceasing him.\n\nBooks published by Blanch were:\n\n"}
{"id": "1849552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849552", "title": "FEC v. Akins", "text": "FEC v. Akins\n\nFederal Election Commission v. Akins, 524 U.S. 11 (1998), was a United States Supreme Court case deciding that an individual could sue for a violation of a federal law pursuant to a statute enacted by the U.S. Congress which created a general right to access certain information.\n\nThe plaintiffs were registered voters who had asked the defendant Federal Elections Commission (\"FEC\") to determine that an organization called the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (\"AIPAC\") was a \"political committee\" subject to certain regulations and reporting requirements under the Federal Election Campaign Act, because AIPAC had crossed certain spending thresholds. The FEC determined that AIPAC had indeed crossed those thresholds, but still did not require it to make the required reports because the organization was issue-oriented, not campaign-related. The plaintiffs sought review in the District Court, which granted summary judgment for the FEC; this ruling was affirmed by a panel of the Court of Appeals, but the Court of Appeals \"en banc\" reversed. The government sought certiorari, and challenged the plaintiff's standing on the grounds that the plaintiffs had suffered no 'injury in fact'; that if the plaintiffs had any injury it was not fairly traceable to the FEC decision; and that a decision in favor of the plaintiffs would not redress their injury.\n\nDid the plaintiffs suffer an injury in fact sufficient to establish standing?\n\nThe Court, in an opinion by Justice Breyer, held that Congress has, by statute, allowed \"any party aggrieved by an order of the Commission\" to file a suit, which is a broad grant; not getting the requested information is an \"injury in fact\" just like the denial of any other information which is statutorily required to be provided to citizens by the government. The grievance is a \"generalized grievance,\" but the harm is concrete enough to overcome this, and the harm is fairly traceable to the FEC – even though the FEC may find other grounds not to make AIPAC provide the info. \n\nThe Court distinguished this case from lawsuits where an individual seeks relief based on mere taxpayer standing - an insufficient ground for standing to sue. It instead employed a \"zone of interests test,\" asking whether the injury asserted fell into the zone of interests protected by the statute.\n\nThe case was remanded to the FEC to review its definition of 'members.' The Court noted that the FEC was producing new guidelines regarding this issue, which would address it and not require a new legal precedent. The plaintiffs were bitterly disappointed by the decision not to intervene, as the effort to have AIPAC legally declared a political action committee was a higher priority than the (successful) effort to show standing to have filed this lawsuit in the first place. While they repeatedly attempted filings to have the case re-opened, these were entirely rejected, and in 2010 a Federal court in D.C. ruled that the lawsuit had no merit as electoral law and it was officially and finally dismissed.\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a dissenting opinion asserting that the fact the statute differentiated between 'any person' (in defining the class of persons who could file a complaint with the FEC over a violation) and 'any party aggrieved' (in defining the class of persons who could bring suit in federal court over the FEC's decision on the complaint) demonstrated the limiting force of the latter provision—anyone could file a complaint with the FEC if they believed a violation had occurred, but only parties who had actually been aggrieved (suffered a particularized injury) as a result of the FEC's decision on the complaint could sue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849555", "title": "Joe Burns (American football)", "text": "Joe Burns (American football)\n\nJoe Frank Burns (born September 15, 1979) is a former American football running back.\n\nJoseph Frank Burns attended Thomas County Central High School in Georgia. Joe was a four-year letterwinner in football, and also won two varsity letters in track. In football,Joe rushed for 4547 yards and 56 touchdowns during his last two years of high school football, and as a senior, Joe was named the Georgia Player of the Year, and was an \"USA Today\" Honorable Mention All-USA selection. Joe also has a cousin in Avon, Indiana named Charles Davis Jr. who plays runningback and who is a rising star in the area class of 2012.\n\nJoseph Frank Burns attended Georgia Tech and played for the Yellow Jackets. Joe was an All-Conference running back, and left as the fourth leading rusher in school history.\n\nJoseph Frank Burns retired in 2006 and now is the Co-Founder of RisingSeniors.com and the Georgia Junior Bowl. RisingSeniors.com has formed a very critical alliance with the NFL Players Association to introduce a character and life skills development program designed to provide resources to assist students dealing with the challenges ahead. RisingSeniors.com is a free program created to prepare high school junior student-athletes for their senior year by equipping them with the necessary tools to thrive academically, athletically and socially. We believe these tools are necessary for a successful transition to their senior year, college and beyond. The Georgia Junior Bowl will be the first all-star football game of its kind showcasing the top high school junior football players in the state of Georgia, the purpose of the game is to enhance student athletes recruiting exposure before their senior year. Joseph Frank Burns is also educating high school athletes and families across the country on the college recruiting process as an educational speaker with Upnextrecruiting.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849559", "title": "Donna Troy", "text": "Donna Troy\n\nDonna Troy is a fictional superheroine appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. She is the original Wonder Girl and later temporarily adopts another identity, Troia. Created by Bob Haney and Bruno Premiani, she first appeared in \"The Brave and the Bold\" vol. 1 #60 (July 1965). Donna has been commonly featured in stories involving the Teen Titans, which she originally joined during their second adventure and is since depicted as a founding member of the team.\n\nDonna has appeared in numerous cartoon television shows and films. She makes her live adaptation debut in the DC Universe series \"Titans\", played by Conor Leslie.\n\nAfter the shake-up in comics that resulted from the publication of \"Seduction of the Innocent,\" DC Comics searched for a way to portray Wonder Woman that would be acceptable to parents. One of the more favored approaches was to publish a series of \"Impossible Tales\" in which Wonder Woman (Diana) appeared for various reasons side-by-side with younger versions of herself as well as her mother, creating a \"Wonder Family\". A teen-aged version of Wonder Woman was dubbed \"Wonder Girl\". By issue #123 of \"Wonder Woman\" (July 1961) the label \"Impossible Tale\" was not being included on many of these stories. In this particular issue the character of Wonder Girl is referred to as if she is an entity entirely different from Diana, a character unto herself.\n\nWonder Woman's younger sister Wonder Girl made her first appearance outside the \"Wonder Woman\" book in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #60 (July 1965) as a member of a \"junior Justice League\" called the Teen Titans, consisting of Robin (Dick Grayson), Kid Flash (Wally West), and Aqualad (the sidekicks of Batman, The Flash, and Aquaman, respectively). After next being featured in \"Showcase\" #59 (December 1965), the Teen Titans were spun off into their own series with \"Teen Titans\" #1, cover-dated February 1966.\n\nWriter Marv Wolfman and artist Gil Kane created an origin for Wonder Girl in \"Teen Titans\" #22 (July–Aug. 1969) which introduced the character's new costume. This story established Wonder Girl's origin as an orphan rescued by Wonder Woman from an apartment building fire. Unable to find her birth family, Wonder Woman brought her to Paradise Island to be raised by her mother, Queen Hippolyta (DC Comics), and she eventually was given Amazon powers by Paula von Gunther's Purple Ray. In 1969, Wonder Girl dons a new, red bodysuit-style costume and—since thus far she has been called only Wonder Girl or \"Wonder Chick\" by her teammates—adopts the secret identity Donna Troy.\n\nDonna remains with the Teen Titans until the series' cancellation with issue #43 in February 1973. She is still part of the team when the comic picks up again with #44 in November 1976. \"Teen Titans\" is canceled again in February 1978 with issue #53, with Donna and the others, no longer \"teens\", going their separate ways.\n\nMarv Wolfman and George Pérez revived the series yet again in 1980 as \"The New Teen Titans\", with original members Wonder Girl, Robin, and Kid Flash joined by new heroes Raven, Starfire, Cyborg, and Beast Boy / Changeling. Donna is romantically involved with much older professor Terry Long, but along the way is put under the romantic spell of Hyperion, one of the Titans of Myth.\n\nDonna's origin is expanded in the January 1984 tale, \"Who is Donna Troy?\" Robin investigates the events surrounding the long ago fire after finding Donna's doll in a box from a coal bin. He learns that Donna's birth mother was Dorothy Hinckley, a dying unwed teen who had placed her for adoption. After Donna's adoptive father Carl Stacey had been killed in a work-related accident, her adoptive mother Fay Stacey was forced to place her for adoption again, unable to raise the toddler because of mounting expenses. However, Donna became victim to a child-selling racket, which ended with the racketeers' deaths in a furnace explosion and the fire. With Robin's help, Donna is reunited with Fay, who had married Hank Evans and given birth to two additional children, Cindy and Jerry. Donna marries Terry Long in a huge, lavish ceremony in \"Tales of the Teen Titans\" #50 (February 1985).\n\nThe subsequent \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" miniseries (1985–1986) rewrote the history of many DC Comics characters; Wonder Woman's own pre-\"Crisis\" history was written out of existence, and the character was reintroduced in \"Wonder Woman\" vol. 2 #1 (February 1987) as a new arrival from Themyscira (the former Paradise Island). With the character of Donna tied predominantly to the Titans, her origin was retconned to fit into the new continuity created by Wonder Woman's relaunch, one severing her direct ties to the Amazons. In the storyline \"Who Is Wonder Girl?\" featured in \"The New Titans\" #50–54 (December 1988–March 1989), the Titans of Myth enlist Donna's aid against the murderous Sparta of Synriannaq. It is revealed that the Titan Rhea had rescued a young Donna from a fire; Donna and Sparta had then been part of a group of 12 orphans from around the universe who had been raised on New Cronus by these Titans as \"Titan Seeds\", their eventual saviors.\n\nThe Seeds had been given superhuman powers, and named after ancient Greek cities. Called \"Troy\", Donna (like the others) had eventually been stripped of her memories of her time with the Titans of Myth, and reintroduced into humankind to await her destiny; Sparta had retained her memories, and the knowledge had eventually driven her mad. Killing her fellow Seeds to \"collect\" their powers and destroy the Titans of Myth, Sparta is ultimately defeated by Donna and the only other Seed left alive, Athyns of Karakkan. In \"The New Titans\" #55 (June 1989), Donna changes her identity from Wonder Girl to Troia and adopts a new hairstyle and costume incorporating mystical gifts from the Titans of Myth.\n\nDuring the \"Titans Hunt\" storyline, Donna discovers she is pregnant; in the \"New Titans Annual\" #7 (1991), a group calling themselves the Team Titans appears, intent on killing her. They come from a future in which Donna's son is born with the full powers of a god and full awareness of them, which drives him mad. He instantly ages himself, kills his mother, and becomes a dictator known as Lord Chaos. The Team Titans travel back to the past to kill Donna before her son can be born. Donna eventually gives birth to Robert; to prevent him from becoming Lord Chaos, she sacrifices her powers and becomes a normal human.\n\nEventually, Donna rethinks her decision and asks the Titans of Myth to grant her powers again; her request is rejected. She then joins the Darkstars. During the Zero Hour crisis, her farm in New Jersey is destroyed and all the Team Titans are wiped out of existence except for Terra and Mirage. Her marriage in ruins, Donna loses custody of her son to her now ex-husband Terry. Donna rejoins the New Titans for a time, with her Darkstar suit giving her the ability to aid them. She dates Kyle Rayner for a while and retires from the Darkstars, leaving her powerless. Donna and Kyle break up immediately following the death of her son, stepdaughter and ex-husband in a car accident.\n\nHer post-Crisis origin was updated in the late 1990s. This version had it that she was originally created by the Amazon sorceress Magala as a magical duplicate of the young Princess Diana of Themyscira (a nod to the original Wonder Girl) to be a playmate for Diana, who was previously the only child on the island. However, Donna was soon kidnapped by the Dark Angel (a World War II villainess and sworn enemy of Queen Hippolyta, Diana's mother), who thought the girl was Diana.\n\nDark Angel cursed Donna to live endless variants of a life characterized by suffering, with her life being restarted and erased from the world's memory when Donna was at her lowest. Even Donna would forget her past lives until the moment at which Dark Angel would arrive to restart her life, at which point she would immediately recall all of her past suffering. With the help of Wonder Woman, Hippolyta, and the third Flash (her former Titans teammate, Wally West), the only people who remembered the previous version, Donna was restored. Somehow, she also regained her powers, presumably because that was how Wally remembered her. Initially, she was concerned that she was not the \"same\" Donna, but an idealized form based on Wally's memories. She has since accepted that this is not the case.\n\nShortly afterwards, the Titans gathered together to save their friend Cyborg. They came into conflict with the JLA, but they saved their friend. During this incident Donna was seemingly reunited with her son via virtual reality, but with the aid of Nightwing, realized it was not real. After that, the original five Teen Titans, including Troia, decided to reform the team. A subsequent battle with Dark Angel suggested her constant rewriting of Donna's history involved Hypertime. It is not clear how this ties in with later revelations.\n\nRealizing that Donna was created from a portion of Diana's soul, Queen Hippolyta accepted Donna as a blood-related daughter and held a coronation on Themyscira to formally introduce Donna as the second princess of Paradise Island. This aspect brought Donna more in-line with her Pre-Crisis Themyscirian origins. After her coronation, Donna and Diana's bond as sisters grew stronger. The two Amazons shared a high end apartment in New York City and Donna became more active in life on Themyscira. While the Amazons of Bana-Mighdall saw Diana as an official moderator between the Themyscirian Amazons and themselves, Donna made strides in becoming an accepted member of both tribes in their eyes. While aiding the Amazons, Donna also came into contact with the villain Angle Man who immediately became enamored with her. After their awkward yet flirtatious first meeting, a seriously wounded Angle Man later teleported himself to Donna seeking her help after being attacked by The Cheetah.\n\nIn a separate battle, Donna was apparently killed by a rogue Superman robot in the Titans/Young Justice crossover , but was later shown to be alive on another world. \"The Return of Donna Troy\", a four-issue miniseries written by Phil Jimenez with art by José Luis García-López and George Pérez, expanded upon the resurrection of Donna Troy and cleared up her multiple origins.\n\nDonna Troy has now discovered that like every other person after the Crisis on Infinite Earths, she is a merger of every alternate version of Donna Troy in the Multiverse. Unlike everyone else, Donna is the repository of knowledge of every alternate universe version of herself and remembers the original Multiverse. She learned that her counterpart on Earth-Two was saved by a firefighter and was raised in an orphanage, while her Earth-S counterpart died in the fire. She also discovered that her sworn enemy of the past, Dark Angel, was in fact the Donna Troy of Earth-Seven, saved from certain death by the Anti-Monitor, just like the Monitor had saved Harbinger. When the Multiverse was reconfigured in one single Universe, Dark Angel, who had somehow escaped the compression of every Donna Troy into one single person in the new Earth, sought to kill her (every life she forced her to relive was in fact an aspect of an alternate Donna as a way to avoid the merging and remain the last one standing). When she was defeated, Donna became the real sum of every Donna Troy that existed on every Earth, a living key to the lost Multiverse.\n\nHer role in \"Infinite Crisis\" is, at the end of \"The Return of Donna Troy\", fully stated: Donna had been reborn after her death at the hands of the Superman android. The Titans of Myth, realizing that she was the child who was destined to save them from some impending threat, brought her to New Cronus and implanted false memories within her mind to make her believe she was the original Goddess of the Moon and wife of Coeus. The Titans of Myth incited war between other worlds near New Cronus in order to gain new worshipers. They would then use the combined power of their collective faith to open a passageway into another reality, where they would be safe from destruction. Donna was another means to that end until she was found by the Titans and the Outsiders, who restored her true memories. This was not without casualties, however. Sparta (who was restored to full mental health and stripped of the bulk of her power) had been made an officer in the Titans of Myth's royal military. She was sacrificed by the Titans of Myth in an attempt to lay siege to the planet Minosyss, which housed a Sun-Eater factory miles beneath its surface. Sparta's death had inadvertently helped trigger Donna's memory restoration. Athyns had also reappeared by this time and aided the heroes and the Mynossian resistance in battling the Titans of Myth. It was then that Hyperion, the Titan of the Sun, revealed Donna's true origins to her and ordered her to open a passageway into another reality by means of a dimensional nexus that once served as a gateway to the Multiverse itself, within the Sun-Eater factory's core. This turned out to be the Titans of Myth's real target. Donna did so, but, fearing that they would simply continue with their power-mad ambitions, she banished most of them into Tartarus. However, Hyperion and his wife, Thia, were warned of the deception at the last moment. Enraged, they turned on Donna, intending to kill her for the betrayal, but Coeus activated the Sun-Eater to save her and Arsenal. As the Sun-Eater began absorbing their vast solar energies, Hyperion and Thia tried to escape through the Nexus, but they were both torn apart by the combined forces of the Nexus' dimensional pull and the Sun-Eater's power. Coeus, who had learned humility and compassion from Donna, vowed to guard the gateway to make certain the other Titans of Myth remained imprisoned forever.\n\nDonna returns to the now-barren New Cronus where she shares a joyful reunion with Wonder Woman. Donna, charged with the guardianship of the Universe Orb containing the Multiverse Chronicles collected by Harbinger, makes the startling discovery that an impending doom is facing the DC Universe, a doom she cannot avert alone. Leaving Nightwing behind on Earth, Donna brings several heroes to New Cronus, including Animal Man; Cyborg; Firestorm; Herald; Bumblebee; Red Tornado; Shift; Green Lanterns Alan Scott, Kyle Rayner, and Kilowog; Jade; Starfire; Supergirl and Captain Marvel Junior (in Outsiders 30). The heroes confront a mysterious and menacing rip in space caused by Alexander Luthor, Jr. (as a part of his plan), which has sparked an intergalactic war. Donna's team contributes to the resolution of the conflict, but things take a dangerous turn when Alexander uses the inter-dimensional tear to recreate Earth-Two and, later, the Multiverse. Donna, along with Kyle Rayner (now called Ion), leads the team to attack Alexander Luthor through his space rift, giving Nightwing, Superboy, and Wonder Girl the time needed to destroy Alexander's device, and save the two Supermen and Wonder Woman from being merged with their Earth-Three counterparts. Though most of the team vanishes when they attempt to leave via the portal opened by Mal Duncan and Adam Strange, she returns to Earth shortly after the Battle of Metropolis, and provides a \"junior red-sun eater\" to the Green Lantern Corps in which to imprison Superboy-Prime at the end of the battle on Mogo.\n\nIn the series \"52\", Cyborg, Herald, Alan Scott, Bumblebee, Hawkgirl, and Firestorm were all returned to Earth although gravely injured, while other heroes such as Supergirl, Starfire, Animal Man, and Adam Strange were lost in space. In the \"History of the DC Universe\" backup feature, when Donna and the artificial intelligence in charge of Harbinger's historical records finished her task of reviewing the DC Universe's history, both the artificial intelligence and one of the new Monitors revealed to her that the current timeline has diverged from its rightful path, in which Donna herself, instead of Jade, should have sacrificed herself for Kyle Rayner.\n\nDuring the World War III storyline, Donna goes into battle as Wonder Woman against a rampaging Black Adam.\n\nDuring the \"One Year Later\" storyline event, Donna Troy has assumed the mantle of Wonder Woman after Diana stepped down following the Crisis, feeling the need to 'find out who Diana is'. Donna wears a set of armor during her tenure as Wonder Woman, which includes the bracelet and star-field material used as part of her Titans regalia. Donna's post-\"Infinite Crisis\" origin, which incorporates elements from her previous origins, is as follows: Donna was a magical twin of Diana created by the Amazon Magala and intended as a playmate for the lonely princess. Donna was later captured by Hippolyta's enemy—Dark Angel who mistook her for Diana and placed her in suspended animation for several years. Years later, the grown up Diana, now Wonder Woman, eventually freed Donna and returned her to Themyscira. Donna was then trained by both the Amazons and the Titans of Myth. A few years later, Donna followed Diana into Man's World and became Wonder Girl, wearing a costume based on Wonder Woman's and helped form the Teen Titans. In her last adventure as Wonder Woman, Donna battles The Cheetah, Giganta, and Doctor Psycho. The trio attacks Donna as a means of finding the then-missing Diana. This eventually happens with the revelation that Circe is the mastermind behind the attacks and capture. After Donna is freed from Circe, she dons her old red Wonder Girl jumpsuit and aids her sister in battle telling Diana that she wants to give the Wonder Woman title back to her as she was never really comfortable using that name and would rather just be called Donna Troy.\n\nDonna later works alongside ex-boyfriend Kyle Rayner, who has taken up the powers and title of Ion again. They go up against one of the Monitors who attempts to remove them from the newly rebuilt Multiverse, claiming the two are unwanted anomalies. Donna returns to Earth with Ion in time for him to say goodbye to his dying mother. After that event, Donna joins several former Teen Titans in the current team's battle against Deathstroke and his Titans East team.\n\nDonna attends Duela Dent's funeral with the Teen Titans. She is confronted by Jason Todd, who seeks her out as a kindred spirit; the two cross paths while investigating Duela's murder. Donna places her investigation on hold when the Amazons invade Washington, D.C. during the events depicted in \"Amazons Attack!\" She travels to the city and confronts Hippolyta, advising her to end the invasion, but Hippolyta informs her that she will only consider a withdrawal if Donna will include Diana in their talks. Donna leaves to find her sister. Jason, who has followed Donna to Washington, tells her that the Monitors are responsible for Duela's death. Donna and Jason are attacked by the Monitor's warrior, Forerunner. They are saved by a benevolent Monitor, whom Jason calls Bob, and recruited to locate Ray Palmer. They soon learn that Palmer is hiding in the Multiverse.\n\nThe group is joined by Kyle Rayner; Jason and Kyle bicker during the journey and Donna is annoyed. Ray Palmer is located on Earth-51 and Bob attacks him, betraying the group. Donna and the others escape, and are caught in the crossfire when Monarch's forces attack Earth-51. Donna is attacked by an alternate version of herself wearing a Wonder Girl costume, and overcomes her doppelganger and escapes. She takes the doppelganger's costume, defeats one of Monarch's lieutenants, and is acclaimed leader of an insect army by right of conquest. She leads the force of Myrmidons into the battle against Monarch's forces. Superboy-Prime confronts Monarch, and the insect warriors are killed in the fallout.\n\nFollowing the battle, Donna alone is able to discern a message directing the group to Apokolips, where the team are witness to its destruction as they first meet the other \"Countdown\" characters: Jimmy Olsen, Forager, Pied Piper, Mary Marvel, Holly Robinson, Harley Quinn, Karate Kid, and Una. Witnessing Apokolips near-destruction at the hands of Brother Eye, the team are later sent to a reconstituted Earth-51 by Solomon, now a world similar to New Earth with the absence of the now much-expanded Challengers team. It is here that Karate Kid dies, and his Morticoccus virus transforms the world almost entirely to violent animal-human hybrids, losing Una to the feral natives and leaving that Earth's Buddy Blank's grandson as the Last Boy on Earth. Returned to New Earth by Jimmy Olsen via a Boom Tube, Gothamites Harley, Holly, and Jason return home while Mary Marvel is once again corrupted by Darkseid who captures Jimmy, who holds the power of all the deceased New Gods. Freed from Darkseid's control by Atom's microscopic rewiring, Jimmy and Darkseid duke it out until Orion descends from the heavens (following his interrupted battle with the killer of the New Gods in \"Death of the New Gods\"), and slays his father. In the aftermath of these events, the remaining party of Donna, Kyle, Ray, and Forager announce to the Monitors they will serve as bodyguards for the New Multiverse, and depart to places unknown.\n\nReturning to Earth after her adventures in the Multiverse with Kyle, Donna and other former and present Titans are targeted by a mysterious foe who is later revealed to be Trigon. The Titans reform to fend off Trigon's assault and avenge the incapacitated Titans East team.\n\nIn \"Final Crisis\" #5, Donna Troy has been turned into a Justifier. She, among other Justifiers, attacked the Switzerland Checkmate HQ. She tried to put the Justifier helmet onto Alan Scott before being knocked away by Hawkman.\n\nThe build-up to Donna's recruitment begins when she volunteers to help Mikaal Tomas and Congorilla track down the supervillain Prometheus. She accompanies them to the JLA Watchtower alongside Starfire and Animal Man, only to discover that Red Arrow has been mutilated by Prometheus. During the ensuing battle, Donna is impaled through the wrists, but frees herself. Prometheus projects a hologram around her, causing Green Arrow to shoot her in the leg, which somehow penetrates her super-tough skin and causes her to fall unconscious. She takes down Prometheus after he defeats the rest of the team, rips of his helmet, and starts beating him brutally, but the Shade stops her. Unfortunately, the villain destroys Star City via a teleportation device.\n\nDuring the \"Blackest Night\" crossover, Donna has a horrific encounter with her deceased son Robert and husband Terry, revived as undead beings by the Black Lantern Corps. She is bitten by Robert, becoming \"infected\" by the Black Lantern's power. Donna, along with Superboy, Kid Flash, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern (Hal Jordan) and several other resurrected heroes, began to be targeted by Nekron, the being responsible for the Black Lanterns. Donna's previous status as a deceased allowed for her to be transformed into a Black Lantern. However, unlike the other heroes, Donna was converted by being infected with the Black Lantern's power rather than having a ring forced on her. Donna is freed by the power of white light.\n\nIn the aftermath of this, Donna is told by Wonder Woman that she could benefit from being a part of the JLA. To that end, she officially joins the team, even recruiting Cyborg, Dick Grayson (now Batman), and Starfire as well. Donna remains with the League and battles such foes as Superwoman, Wonder Woman's counterpart from the Crime Syndicate of Amerika, and the demonic entity Eclipso. Donna eventually resigns from the team after coming to peace with her inner turmoil, and Dick disbands the team shortly after.\n\nIn 2011, following the \"Flashpoint\" storyline, DC revised its continuity, relaunching with a suite of new #1 comics as part of an initiative called The New 52. Donna does not initially appear in this continuity at all; the Teen Titans are first established in the present day, with Cassie Sandsmark as Wonder Girl, and Wonder Woman's new origin presents her as the natural-born daughter of Zeus and Hippolyta.\n\nDonna is reintroduced in the pages of \"Wonder Woman\" as an Amazon created by a sorcerer, Derinoe, as an attempt to usurp Diana's place as queen, replacing her with a new ruler. Diana defeats Donna and Donna sets about a period of soul-searching. Meanwhile, in the \"Titans Hunt\" storyline which seeks to retroactively reestablish the history of the Teen Titans in the New 52, Donna is shown as having been a Teen Titan, working alongside Titans co-founders such as Dick Grayson and Garth, until an encounter with the telepathic supervillain Mister Twister resulted in the Titans' memories being erased. In the \"Wonder Woman\" series, Donna struggles with her rage and anger and after being killed in a battle is chosen by Zeus to replace the Fates, making Donna a new embodiment of Fate. In the last issue of \"Titans Hunt\", Donna confirms that she is \"the Fate of the Gods\", but does not reconcile her history depicted in \"Titans Hunt\" with her creation depicted in \"Wonder Woman\".\n\n\"Titans Hunt\" led into the DC Rebirth initiative, which brought back more popular elements of past continuity after former Titan Wally West returns to the DC Universe and reunites his friends. He explains to his fellow Titans how 10 years were stolen from their lives as a result of unknown forces, partially accounting for the discrepancies. Donna and her friends then reform the Titans. On touching Wally in \"Titans Rebirth\" #1, Donna has her childhood memories of Wally restored. Later, the \"Titans Annual\" #1 (May 2017) reconciles the two accounts of Donna's history — recent magical creation or longtime ally of Wonder Woman — revealing that Donna was, as in the New 52 story, created out of clay to destroy Wonder Woman, but the Amazons later gave her false memories of being an orphan rescued by Wonder Woman. This allowed Donna to be more than a living weapon, and to establish a stable life. Though Donna was heartbroken by the revelation, she was supported by her Titans colleagues, who affirmed their friendship.\n\nDonna remains a main character in the ‘‘Titans’’ series at DC after the team was broken up by the Justice League and reformed by Nightwing with supervision from the League this time. After Dick Grayson was shot in the head by KGBeast, Donna becomes leader of the team while he is recovering from his injury and amnesia.\n\nDonna Troy is often noted for having had a number of complicated revisions to her origin. Writer Marv Wolfman recounted:I wrote the original Donna Troy origin story back in the first Titans run. She had never had one and was, in fact, not a \"real\" character (if you can call any of them real). She was a computer simulation of Wonder Woman as a girl. That story also named her Donna Troy and set up everything that followed. Unfortunately, after \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" and the Wonder Woman revamp, we had to go back and redo it again as a brand new Wonder Woman being born on Earth could not have rescued the girl from the burning building. I wish we had been able to keep it as I think it's gone insane now. I just wanted a simple origin story. I came up with the original, and then [in \"Who is Donna Troy?\"] George [Pérez] and I simply elaborated on what had been done, giving her real knowledge of who she was. I would love to say that everything after \"Who is Donna Troy?\" should be forgotten, but that's not the way continuity works, sadly.\n\nUnder John Byrne, Donna was retconned to be a mirror-image duplicate of Wonder Woman, created by the Amazon sorceress Magala using a spell to give life to Diana's reflections so that the young princess would have an age-appropriate friend. This duplicate is kidnapped by WWII Wonder Woman's nemesis, Dark Angel. Dark Angel forces Donna to undergo multiple \"lives\" that all end in tragedy and result in her resetting back to her beginning. Hippolyta and Wonder Woman attempt to rescue Donna, but Dark Angel destroys her rather than release her from her clutches. With help from Wally West, Donna is recreated as a golem, drawing from Wally's incomplete, Pollyanna-esque memories of her. Later, Dark Angel attempts to erase all memories of Donna from the various Hypertime realities, drawing Dark Angel into conflict with Donna, the Titans, and their alternate reality counterparts from the story \"Kingdom Come\". During the battle, Donna is mindwiped and then reprogrammed with all of her old memories after she is made to relive her past lives.\n\nAfter Donna Troy is killed by a fleet of Superman androids reprogrammed by Brainiac, she is resurrected by the Titans of Myth, who seek to exploit her status as an \"anomaly\" from the world that existed before \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" to escape the coming cataclysm of \"Infinite Crisis\". This story establishes Donna's status as an anomaly of the timeline, explaining that she survived the Crisis and was later subjected to multiple alternate origins as the universe tried to fit her into the new timeline created following the collapse of the Multiverse. This makes Donna in effect \"a living key to the lost Multiverse\". This same storyline also reveals that Dark Angel is an evil alternate universe version of Donna from Earth-Seven. Another pre-Crisis survivor, she \"was saved by the Anti-Monitor, and raised to be his harbinger of doom, Dark Angel. But Dark Angel was uncontrollable, and vanished.\"\n\nWithin a short time after 2011's \"The New 52\" reboot that followed the \"Flashpoint\" story, DC had already presented two conflicting new origins for Donna Troy in the pages of \"Wonder Woman\" and \"Titans Hunt\". In the first case, she is introduced as a new character: magical golem, ruthless warrior, and challenger to Wonder Woman's status as leader of the Amazons. She later goes on a journey of discovery. In \"Titans Hunt\", this same Donna, alongside other former Teen Titans, rediscovers memories of childhood heroism with the Teen Titans, which should be impossible for her. In the \"DC Rebirth\" relaunch, Donna has a fuller set of childhood memories restored to her after meeting the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Wally West. In the \"DC Rebirth\" relaunch of Wonder Woman, the storyline \"The Lies\" reveals that the savage depiction of Thymiscira and the Amazons in the New 52 \"Wonder Woman\" series in which Diana is made the Queen of the Amazons and the God of War and has Donna Troy reinvented as a mass-murdering villain is, in fact, an illusion by the Olympians to keep her away from the real island. A later \"Titans\" story clarified that Donna is still a magical golem created to destroy Wonder Woman, with fake memories granted by the Amazons.\n\nDonna's superhuman powers have changed several times over the years, but in all of her various incarnations, they have always consisted of considerable superhuman strength, endurance, speed, and the power of flight.\n\nAnother version of Donna exists in the New 52 on the alternate Earth-2. In \"Earth 2: Society\", the character, Fury, reveals her name is Donna. This character is the daughter of the late Earth 2 Wonder Woman and the New God, Steppenwolf. This is the first time Fury is used as a doppelganger of Donna Troy and not just an analogue. In \"Earth 2: Society\", Fury/Donna has adopted her mother's mantle of Wonder Woman and taken over Amazonia. She is critical in helping the team recreate Earth 2 after the fall on Telos.\n\nIn the \"DC Comics Bombshells\" universe, Donna Troy is a Nisei Japanese American teenager from Los Angeles. During World War 2, Donna and her friends Cassie, Yuki, Yuri and Emily fight to liberate Japanese American citizens who were unjustly interred by the government. After witnessing the death of Wonder Woman during a battle with Clayface, Donna and the others become a band of heroines known as the Wonder Girls, with each teen drawing power from one of Wonder Woman's magical artifacts.\n\n\"IGN\" placed Donna Troy as the 93rd greatest comic book hero of all time, stating that even though she might have the most unnecessarily complex backstory of all comics characters, Donna has served a major purpose in the DC universe since her inception.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849567", "title": "Dennis Brown", "text": "Dennis Brown\n\nDennis Emmanuel Brown CD (1 February 1957 – 1 July 1999) was a Jamaican reggae singer. During his prolific career, which began in the late 1960s when he was aged eleven, he recorded more than 75 albums and was one of the major stars of lovers rock, a subgenre of reggae. Bob Marley cited Brown as his favourite singer, dubbing him \"The Crown Prince of Reggae\", and Brown would prove influential on future generations of reggae singers.\n\nDennis Brown was born on 1 February 1957 at the Victoria Jubilee Hospital in Kingston, Jamaica. His father Arthur was a scriptwriter, actor, and journalist, and he grew up in a large tenement yard between North Street and King Street in Kingston with his parents, three elder brothers and a sister, although his mother died in the 1960s. He began his singing career at the age of nine, while still at junior school, with an end-of-term concert the first time he performed in public, although he had been keen on music from an even earlier age, and as a youngster was a keen fan of American balladeers such as Brook Benton, Sam Cooke, Frank Sinatra, and Dean Martin. He cited Nat King Cole as one of his greatest early influences. He regularly hung around JJ's record store on Orange Street in the rocksteady era and his relatives and neighbours would often throw Brown pennies to hear him sing in their yard. Brown's first professional appearance came at the age of eleven, when he visited \"Tit for Tat\" a local West Kingston Nightclub where his brother Basil was performing a comedy routine, and where he made a guest appearance with the club's resident group, the Fabulous Falcons (a group that included Cynthia Richards, David \"Scotty\" Scott, and Noel Brown). On the strength of this performance he was asked to join the group as a featured vocalist. When the group performed at a JLP conference at the National Arena, Brown sang two songs – Desmond Dekker's \"Unity\" and Johnnie Taylor's \"Ain't That Loving You\" – and after the audience showered the stage with money, he was able to buy his first suit with the proceeds. Bandleader Byron Lee performed on the same bill, and was sufficiently impressed with Brown to book him to perform on package shows featuring visiting US artists, where he was billed as the \"Boy Wonder\".\n\nAs a young singer Brown was influenced by older contemporaries such as Delroy Wilson (whom he later cited as the single greatest influence on his style of singing), Errol Dunkley, John Holt, Ken Boothe, and Bob Andy. Brown's first recording was an original song called \"Lips of Wine\" for producer Derrick Harriott, but when this was not released, he recorded for Clement \"Coxsone\" Dodd's Studio One label, and his first session yielded the single \"No Man is an Island\", recorded when Brown was aged twelve and released in late 1969. The single received steadily increasing airplay for almost a year before becoming a huge hit throughout Jamaica. Brown recorded up to a dozen sessions for Dodd, amounting to around thirty songs, and also worked as a backing singer on sessions by other artists, including providing harmonies along with Horace Andy and Larry Marshall on Alton Ellis's \"Sunday Coming\" album. Brown was advised by fellow Studio One artist Ellis to learn guitar to help with his songwriting, and after convincing Dodd to buy him an instrument, was taught the basics by Ellis. These Studio One recordings were collected on two albums, \"No Man is an Island\" and \"If I Follow my Heart\" (the title track penned by Alton Ellis), although Brown had left Studio One before either was released. He went on to record for several producers including Lloyd Daley (\"Baby Don't Do It\" and \"Things in Life\"), Prince Buster (\"One Day Soon\" and \"If I Had the World\"), and Phil Pratt (\"Black Magic Woman\", \"Let Love In\", and \"What About the Half\"), before returning to work with Derrick Harriott, recording a string of popular singles including \"Silhouettes\", \"Concentration\", \"He Can't Spell\", and \"Musical Heatwave\", with the pick of these tracks collected on the \"Super Reggae and Soul Hits\" album in 1973. Brown also recorded for Vincent \"Randy\" Chin (\"Cheater\"), Dennis Alcapone (\"I Was Lonely\"), and Herman Chin Loy (\"It's Too Late\" and \"Song My Mother Used to Sing\") among others, with Brown still at school at this stage of his career.\n\nIn 1972, Brown began an association that would result in his breakthrough as an internationally successful artist; He was asked by Joe Gibbs to record an album for him, and one of the tracks recorded as a result, \"Money in my Pocket\", was a hit with UK reggae audiences and quickly became a favourite of his live performances. This original version of \"Money in my Pocket\" was in fact produced by Winston \"Niney\" Holness on behalf of Gibbs, with musical backing from the Soul Syndicate. In the same year, Brown performed as part of a Christmas morning showcase in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, along with Delroy Wilson, Scotty, Errol Dunkley, and the Fabulous Flames, where he was billed as the \"Boy Wonder of Jamaica\" and was considered the star of the show in a local newspaper review. The song's popularity in the UK was further cemented with the release of a deejay version, \"A-So We Stay (Money in Hand)\", credited to Big Youth and Dennis Brown, which outsold the original single and topped the Jamaican singles chart. Brown and Holness became close, even sharing a house in Pembroke Hall. Brown followed this with another collaboration with Holness on \"Westbound Train\", which was the biggest Jamaican hit of summer 1973, and Brown's star status was confirmed when he was voted Jamaica's top male vocalist in a poll by \"Swing\" magazine the same year. Brown followed this success with \"Cassandra\" and \"No More Will I Roam\", and tracks such as \"Africa\" and \"Love Jah\", displaying Brown's Rastafari beliefs, became staples on London's sound system scene. In 1973, Brown was hospitalized due to fatigue caused by overwork, although at the time rumours spread that he only had one lung and had only a week to live, or had contracted tuberculosis. He was advised to take an extended break from performing and concentrated instead on his college studies.\n\nBrown returned to music and toured the United Kingdom for the first time in late summer 1974 as part of a Jamaican showcase, along with Cynthia Richards, Al Brown, Sharon Forrester, and The Maytals, after which he was invited to stay on for further dates (where he was backed by The Cimarons, staying in the UK for another three months. While in the UK, he recorded for the first time since his hospitalization, working with producer Sydney Crooks, and again backed by the Cimarons. While Brown was in the UK, Gibbs released an album collecting recordings made earlier in Jamaica, released as \"The Best of Dennis Brown\", and Brown's first single to get a proper UK release was issued on the Synda label – \"No More Will I Roam\". He returned to Jamaica for Christmas, but six weeks later was back in the UK, now with Holness in tow as his business manager, to negotiate a record deal with Trojan Records, the first Brown album to be released as a result being \"Just Dennis\", although the pair would be left out of pocket after Trojan's collapse and subsequent buyout by Saga Records. On their return to Jamaica, Brown and Holness resumed recording in earnest with tracks for a new album, including \"So Long Rastafari\", \"Boasting\", and \"Open the Gate\". During 1975, Brown also recorded one-off sessions for Sonia Pottinger (\"If You leave Me\") and Bunny Lee (\"So Much Pain\", a duet with Johnny Clarke), and the first recordings began to appear on Brown's new DEB Music label. In the wake of the Trojan collapse, Brown and Holness arranged a deal with local independent label owners Castro Brown (who ran Morpheus Records) and Larry Lawrence (Ethnic Fight) to distribute their releases in the UK. Brown saw the UK as the most important market to target and performed for five consecutive nights at the Georgian Club in Croydon to raise funds to start his new DEB Music label with Castro Brown. In early 1976, Castro secured a deal with Radio London disc jockey Charlie Gillett for Morpheus (and hence DEB) output to be issued through the latter's Oval Records, which had a distribution deal with Virgin Records, but after a dispute over Castro's separate supply of these records to London record shops, the deal was scrapped and the early DEB releases suffered from a lack of promotion. Later that year, Brown voiced two tracks at Lee \"Scratch\" Perry's Black Ark studio, \"Take a Trip to Zion\" and \"Wolf and Leopard\", the latter of which was a hit in Jamaica and would prove to be one of Brown's most popular songs, with a lyric criticizing those criminals who \"rode the natty dread bandwagon\". Brown confirmed in an interview in \"Black Echoes\" that he had parted company with Holness, stating: \"I was going along with one man's ideas for too long. Niney was trying to find a new beat at all times, which was disconcerting, so I hadn't been working with my true abilities. Now I know that I can produce myself.\"\n\nBrown began working again with Joe Gibbs, with an agreement that in return for studio time for his own productions, Brown would allow Gibbs use of any rhythm recorded in the process. The first album from this arrangement, the 1977 release \"Visions of Dennis Brown\", gave him his biggest success so far, blending conscious themes and love songs, and confirming Brown's transformation from child star to grown up artist. The biblical-themed sleeve and portrait of Haile Selassie on the back complemented the roots reggae tracks on the album, including \"Repatriation\", \"Jah Can Do it\", and cover versions of Earl 16's \"Malcolm X\" and Clive Hunt's \"Milk and Honey\". The album immediately entered the \"Black Echoes\" chart and stayed there well into the following year, although it was only available in the UK as an expensive import. \"Visions...\" was voted reggae album of the year by \"Melody Maker\" writers and was given the same award by readers of \"Black Echoes\". A reissued \"Wolf and Leopard\" single, and the eventual album release of the same name also sold well in the UK, both topping the \"Black Echoes\" chart.\nBrown toured the UK in Autumn 1977 with Big Youth, and described the tour: \"It's like I was appointed to deliver certain messages and now is the time to deliver them\". He had also begun producing recordings by his protege, Junior Delgado. In 1978, Brown moved to live in London, and set up premises in Battersea Rise, near Clapham Junction to relaunch the DEB Music label with Castro Brown, with artists featured on the label including Junior Delgado, 15.16.17, Bob Andy, Lennox Brown, and later, Gregory Isaacs. Brown had further success himself with a discomix of \"How Could I Leave You\", a version of The Sharks' rocksteady standard \"How Could I Live\" with accompanying toast by Prince Mohamed. In March 1978, Brown flew to Jamaica, where he was booked at the last minute to perform at the One Love Peace Concert at the National Arena, backed by Lloyd Parks' We The People Band. \"Visions of Dennis Brown\" was given a wider distribution via a deal between Lightning Records and WEA and topped the UK reggae album chart in September 1978, this chart run lasting for five months. In August 1978, Brown returned to the UK, bringing Junior Delgado with him, and DEB Music released a series of singles, although they sold moderately compared to the label's earlier successes, but in the same month, Brown's breakthrough single was first released. Initially released as a discomix featuring a new version of \"Money in my Pocket\" and the deejay version \"Cool Runnings\" by Price Mohamed, which became unavailable for a time after quickly selling out its first pressing, this single gave Brown his first UK Top 40 hit, reaching number 14 the following year and becoming one of the biggest international hits in Jamaica's history, after crossing over first into soul clubs and then rock clubs. This success led to Brown featuring on the cover of the \"NME\" in February 1979.\n\nBrown's next two albums were both released on DEB – \"So Long Rastafari\" and \"Joseph's Coat of Many Colours\", although the label was closed down in 1979, after which Brown again did the rounds of Jamaica's top producers, as well as continuing self-productions with singles such as \"The Little Village\" and \"Do I Worry?\" in 1981.\n\nWith continuing commercial success, Brown signed an international deal with A&M Records in 1981, and now based permanently in the UK, his first album release for the label was the Gibbs-produced \"Foul Play\", which while not wholly a success included the roots tracks \"The Existence of Jah\" and \"The World is Troubled\". This was followed in 1982 by \"Love Has Found its Way\", a Gibbs/Brown/Willie Lindo production that blended lovers rock with a more pop sound, and again was not a great success. His final album with the label, 1983's \"The Prophet Rides Again\", again mixed roots themes with commercial R&B style tracks, and proved to be his swansong with the label. While his association with A&M had taken him in a more commercial pop direction, Kingston's music scene had shifted towards the new dancehall era, and Brown enthusiastically adapted to the new sound, recording for some of the genre's major producers including Prince Jammy and Gussie Clarke. In the early 1980s he also started a new label, Yvonne's Special, dedicated to his wife. In 1984, he collaborated with Gregory Isaacs on the album \"Two Bad Superstars Meet\" and the hit single \"Let aaf Sum'n\", recorded with Sly & Robbie and Jammy, which was followed by a second album featuring the two stars, \"Judge Not\", in 1985. Brown released a huge amount of work through the 1980s, including the 1986 Jammy-produced album \"The Exit\", but his biggest success of the decade came in 1989 with the Gussie Clarke-produced duet with Isaacs \"Big All Round\", and the album \"Unchallenged\". He continued to record prolifically in the 1990s, notably on the \"Three Against War\" album in 1995 with Beenie Man and Triston Palma, and on albums produced by Mikey Bennett, and his profile in the United States was raised by a series of album releases on RAS Records. In the late 1990s he was managed by Tommy Cowan, who contrasted Brown to Bob Marley, who he had also managed, stating \"Bob Marley was a serious businessman, I don't think Dennis was as serious when it came to investment. Dennis was like a community person, he would earn money and in one hour he would give it away.\" Brown said of his approach to songwriting in the late 1990s:\n\n\"When I write a song I try to follow Joseph's way – deliverance through vision from all – true vibration. I want to be a shepherd in my work, teaching and learning, really singing so much. I don't want to sing and not live it. I must live it. If I can sing songs that people can watch me living, then they can take my work\"\n\nBrown's 1994 album \"Light My Fire\" was nominated for a Grammy Award, as was the last album recorded by Brown, \"Let Me Be the One\" (in 2001).\n\nIn the late 1990s, Brown's health began to deteriorate. He had developed respiratory issues, probably exacerbated by longstanding problems with drug addiction, namely cocaine, leading to him being taken ill in May 1999 after touring in Brazil with other reggae singers, where he was diagnosed with pneumonia. After returning to Kingston, Jamaica, on the evening of 30 June 1999, he was rushed to Kingston's University Hospital, suffering from cardiac arrest. Brown died the next day, the official cause of his death was a collapsed lung. Sitting Jamaican Prime Minister P. J. Patterson and former prime minister, serving at the time as opposition leader, Edward Seaga of the Jamaica Labour Party both spoke at Brown's funeral, which was held on 17 July 1999 in Kingston. The service, which lasted for three hours, also featured live performances by Maxi Priest, Shaggy, and three of Brown's sons. Brown was then buried at Kingston's National Heroes Park. Brown was survived by his wife Yvonne and ten children. Prime Minister Patterson paid tribute to Brown, saying: \"Over the years, Dennis Brown has distinguished himself as one of the finest and most talented musicians of our time. The Crown Prince of Reggae as he was commonly called. He has left us with a vast repertoire of songs which will continue to satisfy the hearts and minds of us all for generations to come.\"\n\nDennis Brown was an inspiration and influence for many reggae singers from the late 1970s through to the 2000s, including Barrington Levy, Junior Reid, Frankie Paul, Luciano, Bushman, and Richie Stephens. In July 1999, a group of UK-based musicians and more than fifty vocalists working under the collective name The British Reggae All Stars (including Mafia & Fluxy, Carlton \"Bubblers\" Ogilvie, Peter Hunnigale, Louisa Mark, Nerious Joseph, and Sylvia Tella) recorded \"Tribute Song\", a medley of six of Brown's best-known songs, in memory of Brown.\n\nHe was honoured on the first anniversary of his death by a memorial concert in Brooklyn, which featured performances from Johnny Osbourne, Micky Jarrett, Delano Tucker, and Half Pint. In 2001, a charitable trust was set up in Brown's name. The Dennis Emanuel Brown Trust works to educate youngsters, maintain and advance the memory of Dennis Brown, and help to provide youngsters with musical instruments. The trust awards the Dennis Emanuel Brown (DEB) bursary for educational achievement each year to students between the ages of 10 and 12 years. In 2005, George Nooks, who had worked with Brown in the mid-1970s in his deejay guise as Prince Mohamed, released an album of Brown covers, \"George Nooks Sings Dennis Brown: The Voice Lives On\", with Nooks stating: \"I was always inspired by his talent and I used to sing like him. Dennis had a large influence on me. To me he was the greatest. He was my number one singer.\" In the same year, Gregory Isaacs paid a similar tribute with the album \"Gregory Isaacs Sings Dennis Brown\". In February 2007, a series of events were staged in Jamaica in celebration of the lives of both Brown and Marley (both would have had birthdays that month). In 2008, the Dennis Brown Trust announced a new internet radio station, dedicated solely to the music of Dennis Brown, and in the same month a tribute concert was staged by the Jamaican Association of Vintage Artistes and Affiliates (JAVAA) featuring Dwight Pinkney, Derrick Harriott, Sugar Minott, George Nooks, and John Holt.\n\nSongs about or dedicated to Brown include \"Song for Dennis Brown\" by The Mountain Goats, \"If This World Were Mine\" by Slightly Stoopid, \"Drive\" by Pepper (band), and Whitney Houston's \"Whitney Houston Dub Plate\" on \"\" album by Wyclef Jean.\n\nOn 26 April 2010, Brown was featured on NPR \"Morning Edition\" news program as one of the \"50 Great Voices – The stories of awe-inspiring voices from around the world and across time\". The NPR \"50 Great Voices\" list includes Nat King Cole, Ella Fitzgerald, Mahalia Jackson and Jackie Wilson among others.\n\nOn 6 August 2011, being the 49th anniversary of the country's independence, the Governor-General of Jamaica posthumously conferred the Order of Distinction in the rank of Commander (CD) upon Brown, for his contribution to the Jamaican music industry.\n\nIn April 2012, a commemorative blue plaque was placed on Brown's home in Harlesden by the Nubian Jak Community Trust.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849577", "title": "David Nicholson (British politician)", "text": "David Nicholson (British politician)\n\nDavid John Nicholson (born 17 August 1944) is a former Conservative Party politician in the United Kingdom.\n\nBefore being elected he worked at the Conservative Research Department in the 1970s and 80s.\n\nNicholson fought Walsall South in 1983, being defeated by Labour's Bruce George by 702 votes. He was Member of Parliament for Taunton from 1987 to 1997, being elected to the traditional Conservative seat after Edward du Cann left Parliament in 1987 and was elected again in 1992.\n\nHe lost the seat in the 1997 General Election to Jackie Ballard by 2,443 votes with the swing of 4.6% away from the Conservatives small compared to the national average swing.\n\nHe is now a consultant at public affairs company Butler Kelly Ltd.\n"}
{"id": "1849578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849578", "title": "Republic Monument", "text": "Republic Monument\n\nThe Republic Monument () is a notable monument located at Taksim Square in Istanbul, Turkey, to commemorate the formation of the Turkish Republic in 1923. \n\nDesigned by Italian sculptor Pietro Canonica and built in two and a half years with financial support from the population, it was unveiled by Dr. Hakkı Şinasi Pasha on August 8, 1928.\n\nThe high monument portrays the founders of the Turkish Republic, with prominent depictions of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, İsmet İnönü and Fevzi Çakmak. The monument has two sides: the side facing north depicts Atatürk in military uniform during the Turkish War of Independence, while the side facing south (towards İstiklal Avenue) has Atatürk and his comrades dressed in modern Western clothing; the former symbolizing his role as military commander-in-chief, and the latter symbolizing his role as statesman. \n\nSemyon Ivanovich Aralov, Ambassador of the Russian SFSR in Ankara during the Turkish War of Independence, is among the group of people behind Atatürk (his figure wears a cap and stands behind İsmet İnönü, on the southern facade of the monument). His presence in the monument, ordered by Atatürk, points out to the financial and military aid sent by Vladimir Lenin in 1920, during the Turkish War of Independence (1919–1922).\n\nCumhuriyet Anıtı is an important site, where official ceremonies on national holidays are being held.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849581", "title": "David Mecey", "text": "David Mecey\n\nDavid Mecey began working with \"Playboy\" magazine in the fall of 1979, serving as staff photographer and later as Contributing Photographer. During his career at Playboy, Mecey had numerous solo pictorials including; “The Girls of Texas”, and \"Women of Wall Street”. Along with David Chan, he also worked on all of the college girl pictorials produced since 1980. Mecey is credited with discovering 20 Playmate of the Month, including Brooke Berry, Suzi Schott, Suzi Simpson, and 1998 Playmate of the Year Karen McDougal.\n\nThough David's formative years were all about art and music, his love for photography blossomed after college, and quite literally, by accident. After a near tragic motorcycle collision put him convalescing for nearly a year, his doctor suggested photography after admiring David's artwork. So photography became a career by beginning with what many consider a dream job.\n\nDavid began working for Playboy magazine in the fall of 1979, soon after becoming a staff photographer, moving to Chicago. In 1987, he would take a title change to Contributing Photographer where he would continue with Playboy until 2003. It was after this time he would begin to expand on his photography style to include fashion, beauty, and celebrity work for various editorial and advertising assignments worldwide. Mecey has also photographed such celebrities as Michael Keaton, Peter Horton, Robert Palmer, Ray Liotta, Sparky Anderson, Brooke Shields, Lynda Carter, Rachel Hunter, Carmen Electra, and Sharon Stone.\n\nCalled upon to shoot Petersen Publishing’s \"SPORT\" magazine swimsuit issue for four successive years, the final year culminated with a broadcast on ESPN, ESPN-2, and \"Prime Ticket\". Mecey served as its narrator. He also acted in a made-for-TV movie titled \"Posing\", which aired on CBS. While working as a technical advisor on the film, Mecey was asked by the director to play a fictional Playboy photographer.\n\nFrom 2000–2003, David was co-host and photographer on Playboy TV's, Sexy Girls Next Door.\n\nIn 2001, David founded, David Mecey's FotoFantasyCamp®, a workshop that has grown to be considered one of the premier photographic workshops in the world. Featured in \"American PHOTO\", David brings a select number of aspiring photographers together to a fantastic location for three days of intensive training in his style of lighting, posing, rapport with models, literally everything that makes up professional-level photography.\n\nAlong with his continued catalog and beauty photography, David has self-published a number of books on his work. One, shot in B&W and titled \"Passion\", is a collection of nudes shot over the past decade. A gallery of his work is on display at the German GQ magazine website, as well as MenSTYLE-France magazine's website, with galleries also planned for the French GQ website. In the fall of 2008 and again in 2010, Mecey was selected as guest speaker and program presenter at the international photographic trade show, Photokina, held in Cologne, Germany.\n\nMecey has worked on other projects, such as an ad campaign for a line of cosmetics called M Professional. He works regularly on various swimsuit and lingerie catalogs, posters, and calendars. Mecey uses Apple computers when working on the digital side of photography.\n\nIn addition to his passion for photography, David also has a passion for cars. For well over a decade, he has pursued road racing as a way to relax. David is currently Chief Driving Instructor for the Los Angeles Chapter of the BMW Car Club of America, has established his own driving events organization, Precision Performance Driving, and often works for various auto manufacturers as a pro driver, including Audi, BMW, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Maserati, and Chrysler. He has competed in a number of endurance races including three 25-hr races where the team finished 3rd in class, and 2nd in class, respectively, for two successive years. David continues to live and work out of Marina del Rey, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849590", "title": "Cladosiphon okamuranus", "text": "Cladosiphon okamuranus\n\nA group of researchers from Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University conducting DNA research decoded S-strain genome for \"Cladosiphon okamuranus\" and found that its size was roughly 140 Mbp and smaller relative to other brown alga. They also made a rough estimate on the number of genes \"C. okamuranus\" has and found 13,640 genes. .\n\n"}
{"id": "1849599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849599", "title": "Marston Green", "text": "Marston Green\n\nMarston Green is a village of around 5000 residents in the civil parish of Bickenhill and Marston Green, in the Metropolitan Borough of Solihull in the West Midlands.\n\nThe village is adjacent to Birmingham Airport and the National Exhibition Centre. Marston Green railway station lies on the Birmingham loop of the West Coast Main Line railway and is served by West Midlands Trains local services to Birmingham and Coventry, and a small number of semi fast services to Northampton and London Euston. Notable features of the area include a number of shops, the Marston Green Tavern, St Leonards Church and Marston Green Infant and Junior schools.\n\nMarston Green began as a small village surrounded by agricultural land in the estate of Coleshill at this time, the village was known as \"Merstone\" The village grew into a leafy suburb in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, due to the construction of many detached and semi-detached homes in the 1930s, which were typical of many suburban homes in the area. The growth of homes here was encouraged by the presence of a rail station. Following the expansion of the nearby Birmingham Airport, the construction of the National Exhibition Centre and the local housing estate of Chelmsley Wood, Marston Green has grown largely into a commuter village with many of its residents working in Solihull and Birmingham.\n\nThere was a Canadian air force base in Marston Green during the Second World War. Afterwards, the buildings were used as a maternity hospital and then a psychiatric hospital, then were demolished in the 1990s.\n\nProfessional footballer, Terry Cooke who has played for Manchester United and Manchester City was born in the village on August 5, 1976.\n\nMiles Hunt, lead singer of The Wonder Stuff, lived in Marston Green with his parents and brother in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nStewart Talbot, professional Footballer who has played for Port Vale and Brentford amongst others.\n\nFrankie Bunn who played for Luton, Hull City and Oldham and holds the record for the most goals scored in one game.\n\nDave Willetts, singer in musicals, was born in Marston Green on 24 June 1952 and was brought up in Acocks Green.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849605", "title": "Knowsley North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Knowsley North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nKnowsley North was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1983 until 1997. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post voting system.\n\nThe constituency was a safe seat for the Labour Party throughout its existence. Originally, it was represented by Robert Kilroy-Silk, who resigned in 1986 to pursue a media career. This resignation prompted a by-election, which was won by George Howarth.\n\nThe Metropolitan Borough of Knowsley wards of Cantril Farm, Cherryfield, Kirkby Central, Knowsley Park, Northwood, Park, Prescot East, Prescot West, Tower Hill, and Whitefield.\n\nThe constituency covered the northern part of the metropolitan borough of Knowsley, principally the town of Kirkby. Following a review by the Boundary Commission in 1995, the constituency was expanded at the 1997 general election to form the new Knowsley North and Sefton East constituency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849606", "title": "Josh Keaton", "text": "Josh Keaton\n\nJoshua Luis Wiener (born February 8, 1979), known by his stage name Josh Keaton, is an American actor, voice actor and singer. He is known for his roles as Takashi 'Shiro' Shirogane in \"\", several characters in \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" and \"Marvel's Spider-Man\", Jack Darby in \"\" and the adolescent Hercules in \"Hercules\". He was also the voice of Ryu Hayabusa in the console versions of \"Ninja Gaiden\" and of the young Revolver Ocelot in \"\".\n\nKeaton was born in Hacienda Heights, California, to a father from Brooklyn, New York and a mother from Lima, Peru. He has three sisters: Danielle, Alitzah (Ali Navarro), and Sabrina. He is fluent in Spanish which he learned first as a child, then later English. As a child, he learned to speak some Quechua from his maternal grandparents. His father is Jewish and his mother is Catholic.\n\nHis career has included television, video game and film work, with a mixture of live acting and voice work for animations. As an infant, he appeared in an OshKosh B'gosh commercial. He was in the 1990s boy band No Authority and was signed to MJJ Music and later RCA Records as a solo artist.\n\nKeaton voiced Jules Brown in \"Back to the Future: The Animated Series\" during 1991/1992 and Major Ocelot during \"\" and \"\". From 2008 to 2009, he voiced Spider-Man in \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" animated series on The CW. He was originally supposed to voice Spider-Man in the 2002 \"Spider-Man\" video game but his voice work was scrapped and reworked as Harry Osborn / Green Goblin when Tobey Maguire came on to voice the character. He also reprised the role of New Goblin in the 2007 video game \"\", and Spider-Man again in the video games \"\", \"Marvel vs. Capcom 3\", and \"\".\n\nIn 2011, Keaton is the current voice for Spyro the Dragon in the \"Skylanders\" reboot of the franchise, Jack Darby and Tailgate on \"\", and Hal Jordan / Green Lantern in \"\".\n\nAt \"Wondercon\" 2016, it was announced that Keaton will play Shiro, one of the main characters of the \"Voltron\" animated series \"\" that premiered on June 10, exclusively on Netflix.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849608", "title": "AstroGrid", "text": "AstroGrid\n\nAstroGrid was a £7.7M project which built a data-grid for UK astronomy, forming part of the UK contribution to the International Virtual Observatory. AstroGrid announced its first full production release on 1 April 2008.\n\nThe project ran, in three phases, from 2001 to 2009. Accounts of its end-days suggest that many in the community regretted its early closing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849611", "title": "Chicago Butter and Egg Board", "text": "Chicago Butter and Egg Board\n\nThe Chicago Butter and Egg Board, founded in 1898, was a spin-off entity of the Chicago Produce Exchange. In the year 1919, it was re-organized as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). Roots of the Chicago Butter and Egg Board are traceable to the 19th century.\n\nInitially, the Chicago Butter and Egg Board traded only two types of contracts, butter and eggs. Over several decades, it evolved into the CME which traded futures contracts and options contracts on over 50 products, from pork bellies to eurodollars and stock market indices.\n\nThe butter and egg markets died out in the 1960s after the production of both commodities had become much less seasonal, which reduced both the price volatility and the need for inter-temporal signals for guiding the disposal of inventories.\n\nThe United States was experiencing significant population growth in the late 19th century, but periods of food scarcity continued. Markets were not yet well organized, refrigeration had not been invented and production was still governed by seasonal cycles. Butter was salted and stored for later use. By 1915 the Butter and Egg Board has developed 28 rules for butter grading.\n\nThe Chicago Butter and Egg Board was formed in 1898 out of the Chicago Produce Exchange. time contracts were only a small part of the Board's activity and early attempts to implement margin rules were controversial. When futures trading rules were finally put in place in 1919 the Board's mandate expanded to include futures trading, eventually giving way to the CME which began trading butter and eggs on December 1, 1919.\n"}
{"id": "1849614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849614", "title": "Barry Hoban", "text": "Barry Hoban\n\nBarry Hoban (born 5 February 1940) is a former English professional cyclist who rode during the late 1960s and early 1970s. He formerly held the record for the most stage wins in the Tour de France by a British rider, winning eight between 1967 and 1975. He holds the record (now shared with David Millar) for the most Tours completed by a British rider – having finished 11 of the 12 he started between 1965 and 1978. He was also the first Briton to win two consecutive stages of the Tour (a feat matched by Mark Cavendish in 2008, twice in 2009 and once in 2010, and by Geraint Thomas in 2018).\n\nHoban started cycle racing in 1955, and by the end of the year was competing against Tom Simpson in individual time trials. Two years later, he was fourth in the British League of Racing Cyclists hill-climb (the senior title being won by Simpson). Despite his early prowess as a climber, Hoban later established himself as one of Europe's best sprinters.\n\nInspired by the European successes of fellow Yorkshireman Brian Robinson and of Simpson, Hoban went to France in 1962, turned professional two years later, and stayed abroad for another 16 years.\nHe rode for Mercier-Hutchinson-BP where his team leader was Raymond Poulidor who is famous for coming second three times in the Tour de France but never winning. Hoban was single then and used to come back to Wakefield for the winter with a case full of used shorts/jerseys etc. and sell them to the local riders (it wasn't easy then to get good quality kit and what was available was expensive). Dozens of riders in the BCF West Yorks division had a pair of shorts with Mercier Hutchinson embroidered on the legs. Back then, the best frames were hand-built British ones and Maurice Woodrup, a Leeds frame builder, would have a new frame sprayed Mercier pink waiting for him each year. He would take it back to have Mercier transfers attached.\n\nIn the 1967 Tour de France, after the death of Tom Simpson, Hoban won the next stage. Two years later, in 1969, Hoban married Simpson's widow, with whom he has a daughter Daniella, and two stepdaughters Jane and Joanne.\n\nHe competed in the team pursuit at the 1960 Summer Olympics.\n\nHoban also won two stages of the 1964 Vuelta a España and the 1974 Gent–Wevelgem, where he finished ahead of Eddy Merckx and Roger De Vlaeminck. In the ’Monument’ Classics, his best performances were third places in Liège–Bastogne–Liège (1969) and Paris–Roubaix (1972). Towards the end of a career spent largely in mainland Europe, Hoban occasionally returned to the UK to race; he won the London-Bradford race and was second in the British professional road-race championship in 1979, and he won the Grand Prix of Manchester in 1980.\n\nAt least one bicycle was made with his name on it, including \"Barry Hoban\"-badged frames made by Coventry Cycles (later trading as Coventry Eagle). This is a common practice of retired racing cyclists. Hoban lives in Mid-Wales after moving there to work with the factory that built his frames.\n\nIn 2009 he was inducted into the British Cycling Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849620", "title": "Campbeltown single malts", "text": "Campbeltown single malts\n\nCampbeltown single malts are single malt Scotch whiskies distilled in the burgh of Campbeltown, on the Kintyre peninsula in Scotland. Once a major producer of whisky with as many as 30 distilleries, and claiming the title \"whisky capital of the world\", its production has markedly declined. Most of the distilleries have gone out of business and little trace of them remains. The reason for this decline was the fact that the town was \"churning out whisky in volume ... with little concern for quality\", according to a 2018 book that covers the entire industry and its history.\n\nBy 2010 only three distilleries continue to produce whisky in Campbeltown: Springbank, Glengyle, and Glen Scotia. The Springbank distillery produces three distinct whiskies; Springbank, Hazelburn, and Longrow. Glengyle distillery has only recently been revived by J & A Mitchell and Co Ltd., who own and operate the Springbank distillery, and its whisky is sold under the name Kilkerran to avoid confusion with the Highland blended malt named Glengyle. By 2016, Kilkerran had started bottling and selling a 12 year old spirit, to go along with their previously released No-Age-Statement offerings.\n\nA 2019 review indicated that the whisky produced here offers notes of \"dried fruit, vanilla, toffee, and brine within a dry and pungent body\". The \"Visit Scotland\" web site is more specific, defining Springbank malts as \"robust and smoky with hints of their maritime roots\", the Glen Scotia single malts as \"lighter with grassy notes\" and Glengyle's Kilkerran whisky as \"lighter and sweeter, but with the distinctive oily and salty notes\".\n\nCampbeltown is a \"protected locality\" for Scotch Whisky distilling under UK Government legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849641", "title": "Hugo Distler", "text": "Hugo Distler\n\nHugo Distler (24 June 1908 – 1 November 1942) was a German organist, choral conductor, teacher and composer.\n\nBorn in Nuremberg, Distler attended the Leipzig Conservatory from 1927 to 1931, first as a conducting student with piano as his secondary subject, but changing later, on the advice of his teacher, to composition and organ. He studied there with Martienssen (piano), Günther Ramin (organ) and Grabner (harmony).\n\nHe became the organist at St. Jacobi in Lübeck in 1931. In 1933 he married Waltraut Thienhaus. That same year he joined the NSDAP (National Socialist German Workers' Party), reluctantly, as his continued employment depended on his doing so. In October 1933 Distler was appointed head of the chamber music department at the Lübeck Conservatory, and at about the same time he began teaching at the Spandauer Kirchenmusikschule (Spandau school of church music).\n\nIn 1937 Distler was appointed as a lecturer at the Württemberg Hochschule für Musik in Stuttgart, where he also directed its two choirs. In 1940 he moved to Berlin to teach and conduct at the Hochschule für Musik there, and in 1942 he was named the conductor of the State and Cathedral Choir.\n\nHe became increasingly depressed due to the deaths of friends, aerial attacks, job pressures, and the constant threat of conscription into the German Army, causing him to commit suicide in Berlin at the age of 34. However, his suicide was probably not a direct result of antagonistic government pressure; \"rather, it appears that he saw the futility of attempting to serve both God and Nazis, and came to terms with his own conscience unequivocally.\" He is buried in the .\n\nDistler enjoyed his first success in 1935 at the official \"Kassel Music Days\" (Kasseler Musiktage). He achieved his greatest public success in 1939 at the German Choral Music Festival in Graz, when the Stuttgart Hochschule choir gave the première of sections from the \"Mörike-Chorliederbuch\"; the event was regarded as the climax of the festival, but the dissemination of the work took place only after the war. His \"Mörike-Chorliederbuch\" is now recognized as \"the most important German secular a cappella collection of the 20th century.\"\n\nHe composed chamber pieces, works for solo piano and two concertos (one for harpsichord in 1935 and 1936 and one for piano in 1937), but he is known mostly for his sacred choral music and as a champion of Neo-Baroque music. His works are a re-invention of old forms and genres, rich with word painting, based on the music of Heinrich Schütz and other early composers.\n\nHis music is polyphonic and frequently melismatic, often based on the pentatonic scale. His works remain \"tonally anchored\", while at the same time they \"reveal an innovative harmonic sense\". Because of these characteristics, his music was stigmatized by some Nazis as \"degenerate art\".\n\nHe is now recognized as \"one of the most significant German composers of his generation\". He is often associated with other German neo-Baroque choral composers, including Johann Nepomuk David, Ernst Pepping and Wolfgang Fortner. One of Distler's most prominent students, who carried on many of his rhythmic and harmonic innovations, was Jan Bender. Distler's style was spread by choirs in Germany and abroad during the years after World War II, stimulating and influencing other later composers.\nIn 1953 a choir in Berlin was named for the composer, the Hugo-Distler-Chor, an ensemble that is still active today. In 1992 a German stamp was designed honouring him. Distler's style and importance spread to the United States through the influence of organists including Larry Palmer, who wrote the first important book on the composer in the English language, and subsequently by organist and composer Justin Rubin, who performed the entire cycle of Distler's keyboard works in New York City in 1995.\n\n\n\nWorks without opus number\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849648", "title": "World Airways Flight 30", "text": "World Airways Flight 30\n\nWorld Airways Flight 30 was a McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30CF airliner which suffered a fatal accident upon landing at Boston Logan International Airport in Boston after departing Newark International Airport (now Newark Liberty International Airport) in Newark, New Jersey on January 23, 1982. Two of the passengers were never found, and are presumed to have drowned.\nThis was never updated! I was a flight attendant on this flight. The 2 missing men were father & son, last name Metcalf. Years after the accident I got a phone call from an insurance investigator who was writing a book on insurance fraud. These 2 men were alive that night. They snuck away and with the help of a family member they hid away so the family would get a cash settlement. I had never heard this in all the years since! They were eventually caught and both served time in prison! I told the author my recollection of the event. These men sat directly in front of me, facing me. I was the one who identified their photos for police. I never heard from this author again and could not find any book about this. I tried to trace the Metcalf family and nearby prisons and got nowhere. I contacted the Boston Globe and they could not find any information. To set the record straight: no one died on flight 30. A tv show called What Happened did an episode about it. This accident gave me PTSD that took several years to conquer. Yes I still fly.\n\nWorld Airways Flight 30 was a regularly scheduled flight from Oakland to Boston via Newark. The first leg of the flight was uneventful. Flight 30 departed Newark under the command of Captain Peter Langley (58), First Officer Donald Hertzfeld (38), and Flight Engineer William Rodger (56). \n\nThe DC-10 touched down beyond the displaced threshold. Under normal circumstances, such an incident would have been of minor importance and the plane would have had sufficient space to come to a full stop on the long runway. However, the runway was covered in ice, and the braking action was poor to nil (though reported to the pilots as \"fair to poor\").\n\nWhen it became apparent that the aircraft was not going to be able to stop on the runway, and since there was insufficient space remaining on the runway to take off again (\"touch and go\"), the pilots steered the plane off the runway in order to avoid hitting approach lights beyond the runway. The plane then skidded across a field and a taxiway before coming to rest in the waters of Boston Harbor.\n\nThe part of the DC-10 that housed the aircraft cockpit and forward galley separated from the main body of the aircraft, submerging the first row of passenger seats. The three pilots, two flight attendants, and three passengers ended up in the water. 2 passengers were never found and are presumed dead. The other 210 passengers and crew, among them documentarian and television show host Justine Shapiro, survived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849655", "title": "Caylen Croft", "text": "Caylen Croft\n\nKris Pavone (born May 2, 1980) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), where he wrestled under the ring name Caylen Croft. He was one half of the DudeBusters tag team with Trent Barreta.\n\nPavone debuted in 2001 using the name Chris Cage. After two years on the independent circuit, he signed a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and was assigned to the Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) territory. In OVW, he won the Southern Tag Team Championship four times (three times with Tank Toland and once with Mike Mizanin) and the Heavyweight Championship once. He was released from his WWE developmental contract in March 2006 before being re-signed in 2008. He competed for the Florida Championship Wrestling developmental territory, where he won the FCW Florida Tag Team Championship twice, and debuted for the ECW brand in December 2009.\n\nPavone made his debut in 2001 as a student of Nightmare Danny Davis and Nick Dinsmore. Within two years, he appeared at the ECWA Super 8 Tournament in April 2003 and began competing in Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) several weeks later.\n\nAfter forming a brief tag team with Nova, using the ring name Chris Cage, Pavone later teamed up with Tank Toland to form Adrenaline. Together, they went on to win the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship three times during 2003 and 2004. He later won his first and only OVW Heavyweight Championship after defeating Matt Morgan, before losing it a few months later to Chad Toland, the on-screen cousin of his tag partner Tank. He later won his fourth and final OVW Southern Tag Team Championship, this time with newcomer Mike Mizanin. Together, they feuded with the Toland Cousins (Tank and Chad) and The Throwbacks. Pavone, however, was released from his contract due to behavior problems, leaving Mizanin to defend and ultimately lose the Tag Team Championship to The Throwbacks.\n\nAfter wrestling on the independent circuit, including a one-time appearance in Ring of Honor, throughout 2006 and 2007, Pavone was re-signed to a development deal by WWE, and he began working in their development territory Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) under the name Caylen Croft. Soon after debuting in FCW, he formed a tag team with Trent Barreta called The Dude Busters. On May 30, 2009, Barreta and Croft won the FCW Florida Tag Team Championship from Tyler Reks in a handicap match when his partner Johnny Curtis failed to appear. On July 23, Croft and Barreta lost the championship to Justin Angel and Kris Logan. On November 19, Croft won his second FCW Florida Tag Team Championship, this time with Curt Hawkins, after they defeated The Rotundos (Bo and Duke). While they were champions, Croft and Hawkins would defend the title with Barreta via the Freebird Rule. On January 14, 2010 at an FCW television taping, the Dude Busters lost the Florida Tag Team Championship to The Fortunate Sons (Brett DiBiase and Joe Hennig).\n\nOn the December 1, 2009 episode of \"ECW on SyFy\", Croft and Barreta, no longer using the Dude Busters name, debuted as villains, defeating Tyler Hilton and Bobby Shields, two local competitors. The duo would then feud with Goldust and Yoshi Tatsu, which culminated in a loss to Goldust and Tatsu in a match to determine the number one contenders to the Unified WWE Tag Team Championship on the February 9, 2010 episode of \"ECW\".\n\nWhen the ECW brand ended in February 2010, its roster became free agents. Barreta and Croft signed with \"SmackDown\", making their debut for the brand on February 19 in a losing effort against Cryme Tyme. Baretta and Croft would then feud with The Hart Dynasty, but could never manage a win against them. In April, they began using their Dude Busters name again, which they had seemingly dropped since debuting in ECW.\n\nThe Dude Busters then turned face when they entered into a feud with the Gatecrashers (Curt Hawkins and Vance Archer) in August. The Dude Busters then earned their first tag team victory since joining the \"SmackDown\" roster when they defeated the Gatecrashers on the August 26 episode of \"Superstars\". On November 19, 2010, Pavone was released from his contract. He retired from professional wrestling shortly after.\n\nPavone grew up in Youngstown, Ohio. He was influenced by Bret Hart and Shawn Michaels. Pavone attended Youngstown State University graduating with a Bachelor of Arts. After leaving WWE, Pavone became an elementary school art teacher in the Hillsborough County School District in Florida. Pavone is also the illustrator and author of the children's book \"No Beard The Pirate\".\n\nHe married Rachael Ferguson on October 10, 2015.\n\n\nDuring his reign with Hawkins, Croft could defend the title with either Hawkins or Barreta under the Freebird Rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849663", "title": "Pan Am Flight 214", "text": "Pan Am Flight 214\n\nPan Am Flight 214 was a scheduled flight of Pan American World Airways from San Juan, Puerto Rico, to Baltimore, Maryland, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. On December 8, 1963, the Boeing 707 serving the flight crashed near Elkton, Maryland, while flying from Baltimore to Philadelphia, after being hit by lightning. All 81 occupants of the plane were killed. It was the first fatal accident on a Pan Am jet aircraft since the company had taken its first delivery of the type five years earlier.\n\nAn investigation by the Civil Aeronautics Board concluded that the cause of the crash was a lightning strike that had ignited fuel vapors in one of the aircraft's fuel tanks, causing an explosion that destroyed one of the wings. The exact way that the lightning had ignited the fumes was never determined. However, the investigation revealed various ways that lightning can damage aircraft in flight, which led to new safety regulations. The crash also led to research into the safety of different types of aviation fuel and research into methods of reducing dangerous fuel-tank vapors.\n\nPan American Flight 214 was a regularly scheduled flight from Isla Verde International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, to Philadelphia International Airport with a scheduled stopover at Baltimore's Friendship Airport. It operated three times a week as the counterpart to Flight 213, which flew from Philadelphia to San Juan via Baltimore earlier the same day. Flight 214 left San Juan at 4:10p.m. Eastern time with 140 passengers and 8 crew members, and arrived in Baltimore at 7:10p.m. The crew did not report any maintenance issues or problems during the flight. Upon arrival, 67 of the passengers disembarked in Baltimore. After refueling, the aircraft left Baltimore at 8:24p.m. with the remaining 73 passengers for the final leg to Philadelphia International Airport.\n\nAs the flight approached Philadelphia, the pilots established contact with air traffic control near Philadelphia at 8:42p.m. The controller informed the pilots that the airport was experiencing a line of thunderstorms in the vicinity of the airport, accompanied by strong winds and turbulence. The controller asked if the pilots wanted to proceed directly to the airport, or to enter a holding pattern to wait for the storm to pass. The crew of Pan Am flight 214 elected to hold, at 5,000 feet, in a holding pattern with five other aircraft. The air traffic controller told them that the delay would be approximately 30 minutes. There was heavy rain in the holding area, with frequent lightning and gusts of wind up to .\n\nAt 8:58p.m., the aircraft exploded. The pilots were able to transmit a final message, \"MAYDAY MAYDAY MAYDAY. Clipper 214 out of control. Here we go.\" Seconds later, the first officer of National Airlines Flight 16, holding 1,000 feet higher in the same holding pattern, radioed in, \"Clipper 214 is going down in flames\". The aircraft crashed at 8:59p.m. in a corn field east of Elkton, Maryland, near the Delaware Turnpike, setting the rain-soaked field on fire. The aircraft was completely destroyed, and all of the occupants were killed.\n\nThe aircraft was the first Pan American jet plane to crash in the five years they had been flown by the airline.\n\nA Maryland State Trooper had been patrolling on Route 213 and he radioed an alert as he drove toward the crash site, east of Elkton near the state line. The Trooper was first to arrive at the crash site and later stated that “It wasn’t a large fire. It was several smaller fires. A fuselage with about 8 or 10 window frames was about the only large recognizable piece I could see when I pulled up. It was just a debris field. It didn’t resemble an airplane. The engines were buried in the ground 10 to 15-feet from the force of the impact.” \n\nThe emergency radio communications tape from that evening was preserved, recording the early minutes of the accident as police officers and firefighters arrived at the scene. The streaming audio is available on the blog, A Window on Cecil County's Past \n\nIt was soon obvious to firefighters and police officers that there was a little could be done done other than begin the collection of bodies. The wreckage was engulfed in intense fires that burned for more than four hours. First responders and police from across the county, along with men from the Bainbridge Naval Training Center assisted with the recovery. They patrolled the area with railroad flares and set up searchlights to define the accident scene and to make sure that the debris and human remains were undisturbed by curious spectators.\n\nRemains of the victims were brought to the National Guard Armory in Philadelphia where a temporary morgue was set up. Relatives came to the armory, but officials there ruled out any possibility of being able to visually identify the victims. It took the state medical examiner nine days to identify all of the victims, using fingerprints, dental records, and nearby personal effects. In some cases, the team reconstructed the victims' faces as much as possible using mannequins.\n\nThe main impact crater contained most of the aircraft's fuselage, the left inner wing, the left main gear, and the nose gear. Portions of the plane's right wing and fuselage, right main landing gear, horizontal and vertical tail surfaces, and two of the engines were found within of the crater. A trail of debris from the plane extended as far as from the point of impact. The complete left wing tip was found a little under from the crash site. Parts of the wreckage ripped a hole in a country road, shattered windows in a nearby home, and spread burning jet fuel across a wide area. \n\nThe Civil Aeronautics Board was notified of the accident and was dispatched from Washington, D.C., to conduct an investigation. Witnesses of the crash described hearing the explosion and seeing the plane in flames as it went down. Of the 140 witnesses interviewed, 99 reported seeing an aircraft or a flaming object in the sky. Seven witnesses stated that they saw lightning strike the aircraft. Seventy-two witnesses said the ball of fire occurred at the same time or immediately after the lightning strike. Twenty-three witnesses reported that the aircraft exploded after they saw the plane on fire.\n\nThe aircraft involved was a Boeing 707-121 registered with tail number N709PA. Named the \"Clipper Tradewind\", it was the oldest aircraft in the U.S. commercial jet fleet at the time of the crash. It had been delivered to Pan Am on 27 October 1958 and had flown a total of 14,609 hours. It was powered by four Pratt & Whitney JT3C-6 turbojet engines. At the time of the accident, the aircraft was estimated to have a book value of $3,400,000 ().\n\nNearly five years earlier, in 1959, the same aircraft had been involved in an incident when the right outboard engine had been torn from the wing during a training flight in France. The plane entered a sudden spin during a demonstration of the aircraft's minimum control speed, and the aerodynamic forces caused the engine to break away. The pilot regained control of the aircraft and landed safely in London using the remaining three engines. The detached engine fell into a field on a farm southwest of Paris, where the flight had originated, with no injuries.\n\nThe plane carried 73 passengers, who all died in the crash. All the passengers were residents of the United States.\n\nThe pilot of the plane was George F. Knuth, 45, of Long Island. He had flown for Pan Am for 22 years and had accumulated 17,049 hours of flying experience, including 2,890 in the Boeing 707. He had been involved in another incident in 1949, when as pilot of Pan Am Flight 100, a Lockheed Constellation in flight over Port Washington, New York, a Cessna 140 single-engine airplane crashed into his plane. The two occupants of the Cessna were killed in the accident, but Captain Knuth was able to land safely with no injuries to the crew or passengers of the Pan Am flight.\n\nThe first officer of the flight was John R. Dale, 48, of Long Island. He had a total of 13,963 hours of flying time, of which 2,681 were in the Boeing 707. The second officer was Paul L. Orringer, age 42, of New Rochelle, New York. He had 10,008 hours of flying experience, including 2,808 in Boeing 707 aircraft. The flight engineer was John R. Kantlehner, of Long Island. He had a total flying time of 6,066 hours, including 76 hours in the Boeing 707.\n\nThe Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) assigned more than a dozen investigators within an hour of the crash. They were assisted by investigators from the Boeing Company, Pan American World Airways, the Air Line Pilots Association, Pratt & Whitney, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Federal Aviation Agency. The costs of investigations by the CAB at the time rarely exceeded $10,000, but the agency would spend about $125,000 investigating this crash (), in addition to the money spent by Boeing, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the engine manufacturer, and other aircraft parts suppliers on additional investigations.\n\nInitial theories of the cause of the crash focused on the possibility that the plane had experienced severe turbulence in flight that had caused a fuel tank or fuel line to rupture, leading to an in-flight fire from leaking fuel. U.S. House Representative Samuel S. Stratton of Schenectady, New York, sent a telegram to the Federal Aviation Administration urging them to restrict jet operations in turbulent weather, but the FAA responded that it saw no pattern that suggested the need for such restrictions, and the Boeing Company concurred. Other possibilities of the cause of the crash included sabotage or that the aircraft had been hit by lightning, but by nightfall after the first day, investigators had not found evidence of either. There was also some speculation that metal fatigue as a result of the aircraft's 1959 incident could be involved in the crash, but the aircraft had gone through four separate maintenance overhauls since the accident without any issues being detected.\n\nInvestigators rapidly located the flight data recorder, but it was badly damaged in the crash. Built to withstand an impact 100 times as strong as the force of gravity, it had been subjected to a force of 200 times the force of gravity, and its tape appeared to be hopelessly damaged. Alan S. Boyd, chairman of the CAB, told reporters shortly after the accident, \"It was so compacted there is no way to tell at this time whether we can derive any useful information from it.\" Eventually, investigators were able to extract data from 95 percent of the tape that had been in the recorder.\n\nThe recovery of the wreckage took place over a period of 12 days, and 16 truckloads of the debris was taken to Bolling Air Force Base in Washington, D.C., for investigators to examine and reassemble. Investigators revealed that there was evidence of a fire that occurred in flight, and one commented that it was nearly certain that there had been an explosion of some kind before it crashed. Eyewitness testimony later confirmed that the plane had been burning on its way down to the crash site.\n\nWithin days, investigators reported that it was apparent that the crash had been caused by an explosion that had blown off one of the wing tips of the airplane. The wing tip had been found about from the crash site bearing burn marks and bulging from an apparent internal explosive force. Remnants of of the wing tip had been found at various points along the flight path short of the impact crater. Investigators revealed that it was unlikely that rough turbulence had caused the crash because the crews of other aircraft that had been circling in the area reported that the air was relatively smooth at the time. They also said that the plane would have had to dive a considerable distance before aerodynamic forces would have caused it to break up and explode, but it was apparent that the aircraft had caught fire near its cruising altitude of 5,000 feet.\n\nBefore this flight, there had been no other known case of lightning causing a plane to crash despite many instances of planes being struck. Investigators found that on average, each airplane is struck by lightning once or twice a year. Scientists and airline industry representatives vigorously disputed the theory that lightning could have caused the aircraft to explode, calling it improbable. The closest example of such an instance occurred near Milan, Italy, in June 1959 where a Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation crashed as a result of static electricity igniting fuel vapor coming from the fuel vents. Despite the opposition, investigators found multiple lightning strike marks on the left wing tip, and a large area of damage that extended along the rear edge of the wing, leading investigators to believe that lightning was the cause. The CAB launched an urgent research program in an attempt to identify conditions in which fuel vapors in the wings could have been ignited by lightning. Within a week of the crash, the FAA issued an order requiring the installation of static electricity dischargers on the approximately 100 Boeing jet airliners that had not already been equipped with them. Aviation industry representatives were critical of the order, saying there was no evidence that the dischargers would have any beneficial effect since they were never designed to handle the effects of lightning, and they said the order would create a false impression that the risk of lightning strikes had been resolved.\n\nThe CAB conducted a public hearing in Philadelphia in February 1964 as part of their investigation. Experts had still not concluded that lightning had caused the accident, but they were investigating different ways lightning could have triggered the explosion. The FAA said that it was going to conduct research to determine the relative safety of the two types of jet fuel used in the United States, both of which were present in the fuel tanks of Flight 214. Criticism of the JP-4 jet fuel that had been present in the tanks centered around the fact that its vapors can be easily ignited at the low temperatures encountered in flight. JP-4 advocates countered that it was as safe or safer than kerosene, the other fuel used in jets at the time.\n\nPan American World Airways conducted a flight test in a Boeing 707 to investigate whether fuel could leak from the tank venting system during a test flight that attempted to simulate moderate to rough turbulence in flight. The test did not reveal any fuel discharge, but there was evidence that fuel had entered the vent system, collected in the surge tanks, and returned to the fuel tanks. Pan American said that it would test a new system to inject inert gas into the air spaces above the fuel tanks in aircraft in an attempt to reduce the risk of hazardous fuel-air mixtures that could ignite.\n\nOn March 3, 1965, the CAB released the final accident report. The investigators concluded that a lightning strike had ignited the fuel-air mixture in the number 1 reserve fuel tank, which had caused an explosive disintegration of the left outer wing, leading to a loss of control. Despite one of the most intensive research efforts in its history, the agency could not identify the exact mechanics of how the fuel had ignited, concluding that the lightning had ignited vapors through an as-yet unknown pathway. The board said, \"It is felt that the current state of the art does not permit an extension of test results to unqualified conclusions of all aspects of natural lightning effects. The need for additional research is recognized and additional programming is planned.\"\n\nThe crash of Pan Am Flight 214 called attention to the fact that there were previously unknown risks to aircraft in flight from lightning strikes. One month after the crash, the FAA formed a technical committee on lightning protection for fuel systems, with experts from the FAA, CAB, other government agencies, and lightning experts. The committee made commitments to conduct both long-range and short-range studies of the hazards of lightning on the fuel systems of aircraft, and how to defeat those hazards. In 1967, the FAA updated airworthiness standards for transport category airplanes with requirements that the fuel systems of aircraft must be designed to prevent the ignition of fuel vapor within the system by lightning strikes, and published guidance related to that requirement. Additional requirements to protect the aircraft from lightning were enacted in 1970.\n\nMany aircraft design improvements emerged as a result of the new guidelines and regulations. There was increased attention to the electrical bonding of the components installed in the outer surfaces of the fuel tanks located in the wings, such as fuel filler caps, drain valves, and access panels, to the surrounding structures. Fuel vent flame arrestors were added to aircraft to detect and extinguish fuel vapors that had ignited at fuel vent outlets. The thickness of the aluminum surfaces of the wings was thickened in order to reduce the chances that a lightning strike could cause a complete melt-through of the wing surface into the internal components of the wings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849669", "title": "Émilie Loit", "text": "Émilie Loit\n\nÉmilie Loit (; born 9 June 1979) is a retired tennis player from France.\n\nBesides her three career singles titles, all on clay, included Estoril and Casablanca both in 2004, and Acapulco in 2007, she won 16 doubles titles on the WTA Tour. Her highest rankings were No. 27 in singles and No. 15 in doubles.\n\nOn 24 May 2009, right after losing her first-round match at the French Open, she announced her retiring from professional tennis by the end of the tournament.\n\nIn summer 2011, she gave birth to a son, Mathias.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849676", "title": "D'Angelo Dinero", "text": "D'Angelo Dinero\n\nElijah Samuel Burke (born May 24, 1978) is an American professional wrestler and color commentator, better known under the ring names D'Angelo Dinero, Da Pope and Elijah Burke. He started his wrestling career in 2004, working for WWE, first in their developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling and later on their main roster from 2006 to 2008. While in WWE he would occasionally do commentary during events, but was primarily used as a wrestler, especially as part of the New Breed stable,\n\nFrom 2009 to 2013, and again from 2015 to 2017 Burke worked for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling / Impact Wrestling, his first stint as a wrestler and the second stint as one of their main television commentators. Burke has won the OVW Heavyweight Championship, OVW Television Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship and was voted the 2010 Most Improved Wrestler of the Year by the readers of Pro Wrestling Illustrated.\n\nPrior to his wrestling career Burke worked as a corrections officer in Florida, later gaining a degree in criminal justice, as well as an amateur boxer, a background that influenced his in ring style.\n\nBurke is a former Corrections Officer for the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office in Florida who would become an amateur boxer in Jacksonville's \"Club 5\" and \"Club Plush\" where he had a 98–1 win/loss record. According to his WWE.com profile, Burke has a record of 103–1 with 102 knockouts in his amateur career. According to WWE, the only loss he sustained was a disqualification, after he knocked his opponent out and refused to back down to his corner. Before each of his matches he writes the phrase \"4-Up\" on his wrist tape, and in an interview with \"WWE Magazine\", Burke stated that this came from the phrase \"I'm going to give you five upside your head,\" used by comedians such as Redd Foxx. However, when you punch somebody, it's more accurately four upside the head. On the \"Right After Wrestling\" program on Sirius Satellite Radio Channel 98, Burke told hosts Arda Ocal and Jimmy Korderas that early in his professional wrestling career, he never threw worked punches due to having difficulty pulling his punches.\n\nAfter signing with WWE, he was sent to their developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). There, he won the Heavyweight Championship on December 8, 2004, by defeating Chad Toland. On April 14 Burke lost the championship to Matt Morgan. While in OVW, Burke was offered a spot in the Spirit Squad by WWE's creative team, but turned it down, which forced him to stay in OVW on a longer stint before moving to SmackDown! with Sylvester Terkay.\n\nBurke would be brought up to the main roster of SmackDown! on July 28, 2006 working a mixed martial arts cornerman gimmick with the also debuting former MMA fighter Sylvester Terkay. His first WWE match saw him defeating Scott Wright and he would also break Vito's four month winning streak while on \"SmackDown!\", albeit with Terkay's assistance.\n\nOn November 7, 2006, Burke and Terkay debuted on the ECW brand by cutting a backstage promo. The following week, Burke replaced Tazz, who had knee surgery, as color commentator alongside play-by-play announcer Joey Styles. Two weeks later, Burke returned to the ring; he and Terkay lost to The Hardys. At the ECW brand's December to Dismember pay-per-view, Burke and Terkay defeated The Full Blooded Italians. The pair were later dubbed The Knock-Out/Tap-Out Connection, in reference to Burke's amateur boxing career and Terkay's mixed martial arts background. On January 18, 2007, Terkay was released from WWE.\n\nFollowing this, Burke usually wrestled in singles matches, and appeared in a segment where WWE owner Vince McMahon showed disdain for members of the original ECW and called Burke to the ring, naming him \"The Future of ECW\". Burke was then attacked by Tommy Dreamer, Rob Van Dam, Sabu, and The Sandman, who would later form the ECW Originals stable. Burke then became the official leader of The New Breed, a group of new ECW stars including Matt Striker, Marcus Cor Von and Kevin Thorn, who proceeded to feud with the ECW Originals. At WrestleMania 23, The New Breed faced off against the ECW Originals but were ultimately defeated.\n\nAfter several weeks of trying to recruit fellow roster mate and new ECW superstar CM Punk, Burke and the New Breed were successful on April 10. Just two weeks later, however, CM Punk betrayed the New Breed, attacking Burke after a match. The next week, Kevin Thorn quit the New Breed due to lack of interference in his match with CM Punk. The same night, Matt Striker and Marcus Cor Von were defeated by the debuting Major Brothers. After being pinned, Burke screamed at Striker creating tension between the two. The New Breed would then feud with the ECW Originals, CM Punk and the Major Brothers at the same time. At Judgment Day, Burke was defeated by CM Punk. Then, at One Night Stand, Burke, Marcus Cor Von and Matt Striker were defeated by Tommy Dreamer, The Sandman and CM Punk in a tables match, ending the New Breed stable.\n\nOn June 19, 2007, Burke lost to Chris Benoit (which would be Benoit's last match before his death) in a match that would decide who would face either CM Punk or Marcus Cor Von for the vacant ECW World Championship at . Burke then lost to Punk in a two out of three falls match, which would see the winner becoming the number-one contender to Johnny Nitro's ECW World Championship. On July 10, Burke rebounded with a decisive victory over Balls Mahoney. He was then named the number one contender for the ECW Championship and went on to face CM Punk at the Unforgiven pay-per-view where he was beaten after Punk cleanly pinned him.\n\nTwo days later on \"ECW\", an elimination chase was set up by ECW General Manager Armando Estrada. This challenge was to determine the number one contender to CM Punk's ECW Championship in order to compete for the title at No Mercy 2007. Estrada pitted four ECW wrestlers (Burke, Kevin Thorn, Tommy Dreamer and Stevie Richards) against each other in a fatal four-way that night, which Burke won, removing the loser of the match, Richards, from contention. The following week Thorn was eliminated and in the final match of the elimination chase, Burke was eliminated by Dreamer.\n\nTowards the end of 2007, Burke had a short feud with then-World Heavyweight Champion Batista after Batista claimed his upcoming match with Burke was the last thing on his mind, thus disrespecting him and leading to two singles matches against Batista with Burke on the losing end of both. On the November 20 episode of \"ECW\", Burke introduced and formed an alliance with the newest member of the ECW roster, Shelton Benjamin, who moved over from the Raw brand. Burke was then taken off television for several months but he later reappeared by participating in the 2008 Royal Rumble, entering as the 28th entrant but was eliminated by Triple H after having Mick Foley pushed into him, after which both Foley and Burke were eliminated.\n\nHe later participated in a 24-man battle royal at WrestleMania XXIV to determine who would face ECW Champion Chavo Guerrero. Burke was eliminated early in the match (shortly after he himself eliminated Stevie Richards) by Kane. Burke then reappeared again in a tag team match on \"SmackDown\" where he and Shelton Benjamin faced Kofi Kingston and then-United States Champion Matt Hardy in a losing effort. Burke faced Hardy the following week in what would be his final televised match, but was unsuccessful. Burke later resurfaced once again in 2008 with a new \"Black Pope\" gimmick defeating Stevie Richards, Kung Fu Naki and Jamie Noble in dark matches.\n\nOn November 10, 2008, Burke was released from his WWE contract after being absent from television since May 2008.\n\nOn November 16, 2008, One Pro Wrestling based in England announced that Burke would be appearing on their Friday the 13th show in February 2009, but was canceled. Burke appeared at the World Wrestling Council WWC) show LockOut on December 13, losing a hardcore three-way dance match, also involving Steve Corino, to Sabu. Later in January on an event named Euphoria he teamed with Armando Alejandro Estrada to unsuccessfully challenge Thunder and Lightning for the WWC World Tag Team Championship. Burke appeared at the Blue Collar Wrestling Alliance (BCWA) show \"Superslam 7\" in Detroit, Michigan on April 12, 2009, winning in a singles match against local indy wrestler \"The Reason\" Black Velvet.\n\nIn 2012, he returned to WWC, defeating Ricky Banderas. He wrestled Carlito for the promotion in 2013. Burke made his return to the independent circuit on April 4, 2013, at Pro Wrestling Syndicate \"Super Card\" where he was defeated by John Morrison. Burke wrestled Jason Steel in WWC in December 2014. On January 1, 2015, he defeated Chicano. Burke made his return to Puerto Rico, but now in different promotion International Wrestling Association (IWA), defeating Gilbert.\n\nOn May 27, 2009, Burke defeated Shawn Spears in a tryout dark match for TNA at their \"TNA Impact!\" television tapings. On July 29, the Wrestling Observer Newsletter reported that Burke had signed a contract with TNA. On the August 6 episode of \"Impact!\" a vignette was aired that announced that Burke would be debuting under the ring name D'Angelo Dinero at Hard Justice. Burke made his debut as a heel on August 16 in the Steel Asylum match, which was won by Daniels. On August 20, 2009, he made his \"Impact!\" debut and defeated Consequences Creed before he was attacked by Suicide, who had lost the Steel Asylum match because of Dinero's interference. On the September 17 episode of \"Impact!\", Dinero defeated Suicide. At No Surrender, Dinero defeated Suicide once again, this time in a \"falls count anywhere\" match. The following week on \"Impact!\" Suicide finally defeated Dinero, by pinning him in a street fight.\n\nBurke was slated to take part in the Ultimate X match at Bound for Glory, but ended up missing the event due to a \"family emergency\". Dinero returned on the November 12 episode of \"Impact!\", aligning himself with Matt Morgan and Hernandez against Team 3D and Rhino, which turned him face as a result. Three days later, on November 15, 2009, Dixie Carter announced on her Twitter account that Burke had signed a new long term deal with the company.\n\nAt Turning Point Rhino and Team 3D defeated Dinero, Morgan and Hernandez. On the following \"Impact!\" Rhino and Team 3D won the rematch as well, when Jesse Neal turned heel and joined them. On the December 3 episode \"Impact!\" Suicide accepted Dinero's offer for peace and joined him, Morgan and Hernandez in their war with Rhino, Team 3D and Neal. At Final Resolution Morgan, Hernandez, Dinero and Suicide defeated Neal, Team 3D and Rhino in an eight-man elimination tag team match.\n\nOn the January 4, 2010, special live three-hour Monday night episode of \"Impact!\", Dinero defeated Desmond Wolfe. Two weeks later at Genesis, however, Wolfe avenged his loss and defeated Dinero in a rematch. On the February 4 episode of \"Impact!\", Dinero scored a non-title victory over the World Heavyweight Champion, A.J. Styles. At Against All Odds Dinero defeated Desmond Wolfe, Matt Morgan and Mr. Anderson, despite being attacked by Scott Hall and Sean Waltman prior to the match, to win the 8 Card Stud Tournament and earn himself a shot at Styles' World Heavyweight Championship at Lockdown.\n\nTwo months later, at Lockdown, Dinero failed in his attempt to win the World Heavyweight Championship from Styles. During the match Burke suffered ligament damage in his shoulder, which would sideline him for over two months. In storyline, Dinero's absence was attributed to Mr. Anderson attacking him backstage on the May 3 episode of \"Impact!\". Dinero returned on the July 1 episode of \"Impact!\" and was immediately challenged to a match by Kurt Angle, who had vowed to go through TNA's top ten wrestlers in the Championship Committee's rankings and had now arrived to the man ranked number eight. At Victory Road Dinero was defeated by Angle in his return match. Afterwards, Dinero started a storyline with Mr. Anderson, who had recently turned face and wanted to prove his change to the man he had injured two months earlier by saving him from Matt Morgan. On the August 19 episode of \"Impact!\" the TNA World Heavyweight Championship was vacated and Dinero was entered into an eight-man tournament for it. In his first-round match he defeated Morgan to set up a semifinal match against Anderson. At No Surrender Anderson defeated Dinero to eliminate him from the tournament.\nOn the September 16 episode of \"Impact!\", and the \"Reaction\" following it, Dinero seemingly turned heel by aligning himself with Kevin Nash and Sting, who had been feuding with Hulk Hogan, Eric Bischoff and Jeff Jarrett for months over the way TNA was run, claiming to know that they were up to something. Dinero later claimed to have gotten inside information from Bischoff's secretary Miss Tessmacher, that would suggest that Sting and Nash were right. At Bound for Glory Dinero, Sting and Nash faced Jeff Jarrett and Samoa Joe in a handicap match, after Hulk Hogan, who was scheduled to team with Jarrett and Joe, was forced to pull out due to a back surgery. At the end of the match Jarrett abandoned Joe and left him to be pinned by Nash. At the end of the event it was revealed that Sting and Nash had been right about Hogan and Bischoff all along, as they turned heel with Jarrett, Abyss and Jeff Hardy, and in the process turned Dinero, Sting and Nash back to being faces.\n\nOn the following episode of \"Impact!\" Sting and Nash refused to join Hogan's and Bischoff's new Immortal stable and instead walked out on TNA and Dixie Carter, noting that they had tried to warn her, but she had not listened. Dinero, now left alone, then became a target of the Immortal/Fortune alliance, with Fortune members A.J. Styles, Douglas Williams, Kazarian, James Storm and Robert Roode defeating him in a 5–on–1 handicap match. The following week Dinero received a shot at Styles' Television Championship in a street fight, but was defeated after an interference from Abyss. Afterwards, Dinero tried to form an alliance with Samoa Joe to fight Immortal and Fortune, but was turned down. At Turning Point Abyss defeated Dinero in a Lumberjack match, after Dinero's lumberjacks, including his own brother, turned on him, after being bought out by Eric Bischoff. The following month at Final Resolution Dinero was defeated by Abyss in a casket match.\nOn the following episode of \"Impact!\" Dinero started collecting donations in order to help those in need, however, after a vignette, filmed secretly by Samoa Joe's associate Okato, where Dinero visited a strip club, his true motivations were questioned by Joe on the January 6, 2011, episode of \"Impact!\". On the January 27 episode of \"Impact!\", Dinero completed his heel turn, talking down to the crowd at the Impact! Zone and confessing his dislike of Samoa Joe. On February 13 at Against All Odds Dinero was defeated by Joe in a singles match. After the match Dinero attacked Joe and bloodied him. On the following episode of \"Impact!\", Joe got his revenge on Dinero by giving him a muscle buster through a table, after Okato prevented him from escaping the ring. On the March 10 episode of \"Impact!\", Dinero defeated Joe in a rematch between the two, after hitting him with a chain. On April 17 at Lockdown, Joe defeated Dinero in a steel cage match.\n\nIn June, Dinero helped Brother Devon in his feud with Mexican America, even though Devon tried to decline his help, claiming that he was a bad influence on his two sons Terrence and Terrell. Later that month, Dinero and Devon were both entered into the Bound for Glory Series to determine the number one contender for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship, during the course of which Dinero handed Devon a win in a tag team match, but Devon did not return the favor and save Dinero from a post-match assault at the hands of Samoa Joe. On August 7 at Hardcore Justice, Dinero defeated Devon in a Bound for Glory Series match. At the start of the match, Dinero offered to lay down for Devon, but the offer was refused. Devon finally changed his attitude towards Dinero by saving him from Samoa Joe on the August 25 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". The attack however forced Dinero to pull out of the Bound for Glory Series with a storyline injury. On the September 8 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Dinero and Devon defeated The British Invasion (Douglas Williams and Magnus) to become the number one contenders to the World Tag Team Championship. On September 11 at No Surrender, Dinero and Devon failed in their attempt to win the TNA World Tag Team Championship from Anarquia and Hernandez of Mexican America. On the December 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Dinero and Devon defeated Ink Inc. (Jesse Neal and Shannon Moore) and Mexican America to become the number one contenders to the World Tag Team Championship, now held by the team of Crimson and Matt Morgan. On December 11 at Final Resolution, Dinero and Devon failed to capture the World Tag Team Championship. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Dinero, along with Terrence and Terrell, turned on Devon. On January 8, 2012, at Genesis, Terrence and Terrell turned on Dinero and helped their father defeat him in a singles match.\n\nDinero returned to TNA on the June 14 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", when he entered the 2012 Bound for Glory Series, taking part in the opening gauntlet match, from which he was eliminated by James Storm. After only one win and eight losses, Dinero suffered a legitimate shoulder injury and was sidelined from the tournament during its final weeks in mid-August. In storyline Dinero was sidelined as a result of being attacked by Aces & Eights at Hardcore Justice.\n\nOn January 8, 2013, Burke announced on Twitter that his TNA contract had expired on January 1, and he would not be re-signing with the company.\n\nOn September 11, 2013, Burke returned to Ohio Valley Wrestling and defeated Flash Flanagan to win the Television Championship. After defeating Flanagan to retain the OVW Television Championship in a rematch the following week, Burke successfully defended his title twice against Raul LaMotta and Rockstar Spud before losing the title to Shiloh Jonze on October 5 at the \"OVW Saturday Night Special\".<ref name=\"OVW Saturday Night Special 10/5\"></ref> On October 9, 2013, Burke teamed with Eddie Diamond to defeat The Marauders (Joe Coleman & Shiloh Jonze), then made a challenged to Jonze for a title rematch. On October 16, Burke faced Shiloh Jonze in a Steel Cage match for the Television Championship but was unsuccessful.<ref name=\"OVW TV Results 10/16\"></ref>\n\nOn September 16, 2015, Burke made his return under the ring name General Pope, teaming with Private Anthony defeating Adam Revolver and Reverend Stuart Miles in a number one contenders match for an opportunity at the Southern Tag Team Championship. On December 5, The Band of Brothaz (General Pope and Private Anthony) defeated The Van Zandt Family Circus (Dapper Dan Van Zandt and The Ringmaster) to win the Southern Tag Team Championship. With this victory, Burke became the sixteenth triple crown champion in OVW history.\n\nBurke returned to TNA on the June 3, 2015 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" alongside Josh Mathews on commentary under the ring name Da Pope. On October 4, 2015, at Bound For Glory, Pope entered in a twelve-man Bound For Gold Gauntlet match which was won by Tyrus.\n\nOn the March 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Pope saved Josh Mathews from an attack by Lashley only to be attacked himself. The following week, Pope cost Lashley a shot at the TNA World Heavyweight Championship when he interfered in a gauntlet match he was competing in and then fighting him to the backstage area. On the April 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Pope was defeated by Lashley in a street fight. He Was acting as a face commentator.\n\nOn August 16, 2017, Dinero announced his departure from TNA.\n\nSince leaving TNA, he has primarily wrestled for Fighting Evolution Wrestling, a Florida-based promotion. Burke debuted on the December 23, 2019 episode of NWA Powerrr, using his \"Pope\" moniker..\n\nBurke was a guest on Sci-Fi Channel's \"Ghost Hunters\", on the October 31, 2007 Halloween live special episode. He would become the second WWE wrestler to appear on \"Ghost Hunters\", with the first being CM Punk. He also had a journal on WWE.com called \"The Elijah Experience\", where he discussed the happenings on \"ECW on Sci-Fi\".\n\nBurke is a playable character in the video games \"WWE SmackDown vs Raw 2008\" and \"WWE SmackDown vs Raw 2009\".\n\nIn May 2011, it was announced on his official website that Burke had graduated and received his degree with high honors in criminal justice.\n\nAlthough Burke hasn't been on WWE in over ten years, Burke is close friends with Xavier Woods and the rest of The New Day, and appeared on an episode of Woods' YouTube channel \"UpUpDownDown\" in January 2019 playing Madden 19.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849681", "title": "Paul Gilroy", "text": "Paul Gilroy\n\nPaul Gilroy FBA (born 16 February 1956) is a British historian, writer and academic, who is the founding Director of the Centre for the Study of Race and Racism at University College London. Gilroy is the 2019 winner of the €660,000 Holberg Prize, for \"his outstanding contributions to a number of academic fields, including cultural studies, critical race studies, sociology, history, anthropology and African-American studies\".\n\nGilroy was born in the East End of London to a Guyanese mother, novelist Beryl Gilroy, and an English father, Patrick, who was a scientist. He has a sister, Darla. He was educated at University College School and obtained his bachelor's degree at the University of Sussex in 1978. He moved to Birmingham University, where he completed his PhD in 1986.\n\nGilroy is a scholar of Cultural Studies and Black Atlantic diasporic culture with interests in the \"myriad manifestations of black British culture\". He is the author of \"There Ain't no Black in the Union Jack\" (1987), \"Small Acts\" (1993), \"The Black Atlantic\" (1993), \"Between Camps\" (2000; also published as \"Against Race\" in the United States), and \"After Empire\" (2004; published as \"Postcolonial Melancholia\" in the United States), among other works. Gilroy was also co-author of \"The Empire Strikes Back: Race and Racism in 1970s Britain\" (1982), a path-breaking, collectively produced volume published under the imprint of the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies at Birmingham University, where he was a doctoral student working with the Jamaican intellectual Stuart Hall. Other members of the group that produced \"The Empire Strikes Back\" include Valerie Amos, Hazel Carby and Pratibha Parmar.\n\nGilroy taught at South Bank University, Essex University, and then for many years at Goldsmiths, University of London, before taking up a tenured post in the US at Yale University, where he was the chair of the Department of African American Studies and Charlotte Marian Saden Professor of Sociology and African American Studies. He was the first holder of the Anthony Giddens Professorship in Social Theory at the London School of Economics before he joined King's College, London in September 2012.\n\nGilroy worked for the Greater London Council for several years in the 1980s before becoming an academic. During that period, he was associated with the weekly listings magazine \"City Limits\" (where he was a contributing editor between 1982 and 1984) and \"The Wire\" (where he had a regular column from 1988 to 1991). Other publications he wrote for during this period include \"New Musical Express\", \"The New Internationalist\" and \"New Statesman and Society\".\n\nGilroy is known as a path-breaking scholar and historian of the music of the Black Atlantic diaspora, as a commentator on the politics of race, nation and racism in the UK, and as an archaeologist of the literary and cultural lives of blacks in the western hemisphere. According to the US \"Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\" he has been consistently among the most frequently cited black scholars in the humanities and social sciences. He held the top position in the humanities rankings in 2002, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008.\n\nGilroy holds honorary doctorates from the University of London Goldsmiths College the University of Liège 2016. The University of Sussex and the University of Copenhagen..\n\nIn Autumn 2009 he served as Treaty of Utrecht Visiting Professor at the Centre for Humanities, Utrecht University. Gilroy was awarded a 50th Anniversary Fellowship of Sussex University in 2012. \nIn 2014 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences. In the same year, he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature. He was elected an international honorary member of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in April 2018.\n\nHe is married to the writer, photographer and academic Vron Ware. The couple live in North London, and have two children, Marcus and Cora.\n\nGilroy's 1993 book \"The Black Atlantic: Modernity and Double Consciousness\" marks a turning point in the study of diasporas. Applying a cultural studies approach, he provides a study of African intellectual history and its cultural construction. Moving away from all cultural forms that could be deemed ethnic absolutism, Gilroy offers the concept of the Black Atlantic as a space of transnational cultural construction. In his book, Gilroy makes the peoples who suffered from the Atlantic slave trade the emblem of his new concept of diasporic peoples. This new concept breaks with the traditional diasporic model based on the idea that diasporic people are separated by a communal source or origin, offering a second model that privileges hybridity. Gilroy's theme of Double Consciousness involves Black Atlantic striving to be both European and Black through their relationship to the land of their birth and their ethnic political constituency being absolutely transformed.\n\nRather than encapsulating the African-American tradition within national borders, Gilroy recognizes the actual significance of European and African travels of many African-American writers. To prove his point, he re-reads the works of African-American intellectuals against the background of a trans-Atlantic context. Gilroy's concept of the Black Atlantic fundamentally disrupts contemporary forms of cultural nationalism and reopens the field of African-American studies by enlarging the field's interpretive framework.\n\nGilroy offers a corrective to traditional notions of culture as rooted in a particular nation or history, suggesting instead an analytic that foregrounds movement and exchange. In an effort to disabuse scholars of cultural studies and cultural historians in the UK and the U.S. from assuming a “pure” racial, ethnic, and class-based politics/political history, Gilroy traces two legacies of political and cultural thought that emerge through cross-pollination. Gilroy critiques New Leftist’s for assuming a pure British nationalist identity that in fact was influenced by various Black histories and modes of exchange. Gilroy’s initial claim seeks to trouble the assumptive logics of a “pure” western history (canon), offering instead a way to think these histories as mutually constituted and always already entangled.\n\nGilroy uses the transatlantic slave trade to highlight the influence of \"routes\" on black identity. He uses the image of a ship to represent how authentic black culture is composed of cultural exchanges since the slave trade stifled blacks' ability to connect to a homeland. He claims that there was a cultural exchange as well as a commodity exchange that defines the transatlantic slave trade and thus black culture. In addition, he discusses how Black people and Black cultures were written out of European countries and cultures via the effort to equate white people with institutions and cultures, which causes whiteness to be conflated with Europe as a country and Black people being ignored and excluded. This causes Blackness and Britishness to be viewed as separate entities lacking symbiosis. Whiteness and Britishness even went so far as to create a culture such that Blackness becomes a threat to the sanctity of these European and British cultures. To further an understanding of this, one can think of how race is a taboo subject in Germany, which allows Blackness to never be introduced as a dimension of what it means to be German, allowing Black people and their struggles with racism to be unnamed, unmarked, and ignored.\n\nAn example of how Gilroy and his concepts in \"The Black Atlantic\" directly affected a specific field of African-American studies is its role in defining and influencing the shift between the political black British movement of the 1960/70s to the 1980/90s. Gilroy came to reject outright the working-class movements of the 1970s and '80s on the basis that the system and logic behind the movements were fundamentally flawed as a result of their roots in the way of thinking that not only ignored race but also the trans-Atlantic experience as an integral part of the black experience and history. This argument is expanded upon in one of his previous co-authored books, \"The Empire Strikes Back\" (1983), which was supported by the (now closed) Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies of the University of Birmingham in the UK.\n\"The Black Atlantic\" received an American Book Award in 1994. The book has subsequently been translated into Italian, French, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish. The influence of the study is generally accepted to be profound, though academics continue to debate in exactly what form its greatest significance may lie.\n\nThe theoretical use of the ocean as a liminal space alternative to the authority of nation-states has been highly generative in diasporic studies, in spite of Gilroy's own desire to avoid such conflations. The image of water and migration has been taken up as well by later scholars of the Black diaspora, including Omise’eke Natasha Tinsley, Isabel Hofmeyr, and Stephanie E. Smallwood, who expand Gilroy's theorizations by engaging questions of queerness, transnationality, and the middle passage.\n\nAmong the academic responses to Gilroy's Black Atlantic thesis are: \"Africadian Atlantic: Essays on George Elliott Clarke\" (2012), edited by Joseph Pivato, and George Elliott Clarke's \"Must All Blackness Be American? Locating Canada in Borden's 'Tightrope Time,' or Nationalizing Gilroy's \"The Black Atlantic\"\" (1996, \"Canadian Ethnic Studies\" 28.3).\n\nAdditionally, scholar Tsiti Ella Jaji discusses Gilroy and his conceptualization of the Black Atlantic as the \"inspiration and provocation\" for her 2014 book \"Africa in Stereo: Modernism, Music, and Pan-African Solidarity\". While finding Gilroy’s discussion of music in the Black diaspora compelling and inspiring, Jaji has two main points of contention that provoked her to critique and to dissect his theories, the first being his failure to include continental Africa in this space of music production, creating an understanding of black diaspora that is exclusive of Africa.\n\nJaji's second point is that Gilroy fails to examine the role that gender plays in Black music production. Jaji discusses how Gilroy's \"The Black Atlantic\", while enriching our collective understanding of trans-Atlantic Black cultural exchange, devalues the incorporation of gender into his analysis, as can be seen in chapter one of \"The Black Atlantic\", where Gilroy says: \"Black survival depends upon forging a new means to build alliances above and beyond petty issues like language, religion, skin colour, and to a lesser extent gender.\" Further, Gilroy did not include female voices in his discussion of music and trans-Atlantic Black cultural exchange, which Jaji argues contributes to a gendered understanding of pan-Africanism that is largely male-dominated.\n\nAn additional academic response to Gilroy's work is by scholar Julian Henriques. Gilroy concludes the first chapter of his book \"The Black Atlantic Modernity and Double Consciousness\" with the quote: \"social self-creation through labour is not the centre-piece of emancipatory hopes...Artistic expression...therefore becomes the means towards both individual self-fashioning and communal liberation\" (Gilroy, 40). This quote about the liberatory potential of art as a transatlantic cultural product. Gilroy argues that for Black people forms of culture take on a heightened meaning in light of Black persons being excluded from representation in the traditional political apparatus. As such, Gilroy argues that culture is the mode through which Black persons should aspire to liberation. In working to understand Black culture, Gilroy implores us as readers to focus on routes of movement of Black persons and Black cultural production as opposed to focusing on roots of origin. However, scholar Julian Henriques argues Gilroy's focus on routes in itself is limiting to our understanding of the Black diaspora. Henriques introduces the idea of propagation of vibration, described as the diffusion of a spectrum of frequencies through a variety of media, in his paper Sonic diaspora, vibrations, and rhythm: thinking through the sounding of the Jamaican dancehall session (Henriques, 221). This theory of the propagation of vibrations provides language to understand the diffusion of vibrations beyond the material (accessible) sonic and musical fields or the physical circulation of objects that can be tracked through Gilroy's routes. Henriques described vibrations as having corporeal (kinetic) and ethereal (meaning based) qualities that can be diffused similarly to the accessible fields, and argues that Gilroy's routes language does not encapsulate these frequencies of vibrations (224–226). When considered together, Henriques and Gilroy's writing suggests that these plethora of vibrational frequencies propagate through the Black diaspora as part of Black musical production, with the potential to be used as a mode of liberatory practice.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849685", "title": "Continental Airlines Flight 11", "text": "Continental Airlines Flight 11\n\nContinental Airlines Flight 11, registration N70775, was a Boeing 707 aircraft which exploded in the vicinity of Centerville, Iowa, while en route from O'Hare Airport, Chicago, Illinois, to Kansas City, Missouri, on May 22, 1962. The aircraft crashed in a clover field near Unionville, in Putnam County, Missouri, killing all 45 crew and passengers on board. The investigation determined the cause of the crash was a suicide bombing committed as insurance fraud.\n\nThomas G. Doty arrived at the gate after the doors had been closed. Although airline policy is that once the doors are closed they are not to be reopened, the doors were reopened and Doty was allowed to board.\n\nFlight 11 departed O'Hare at 8:35 p.m. The flight was routine until just before the Mississippi River when it deviated from its filed flight plan to the north to avoid a line of thunderstorms. In the vicinity of Centerville, Iowa, the radar image of the aircraft disappeared from the scope of the Waverly, Iowa, Flight Following Service. At approximately 9:17 p.m. an explosion occurred in the right rear lavatory, resulting in separation of the tail section from the fuselage. The flight crew initiated the required emergency descent procedures and donned their smoke masks due to the dense fog that formed in the cabin immediately after decompression. At a separation of the tail, the remaining aircraft structure pitched nose down violently, causing the engines to tear off, after which it fell in uncontrolled gyrations. The fuselage of the Boeing 707, minus the aft 38 feet, and with part of the left and most of the right-wing intact, struck the ground, headed westerly down a 10-degree slope of an alfalfa field.\n\nWitnesses in and around both Cincinnati, Iowa and Unionville reported hearing loud and unusual noises at around 9:20 p.m., and two more saw a big flash or ball of fire in the sky. A B-47 Stratojet bomber flying out of Forbes Air Force Base in Topeka, Kansas, was flying at the altitude of 26,500 feet in the vicinity of Kirksville, Missouri. The aircraft commander saw a bright flash in the sky forward of and above his aircraft's position. After referring to his navigation logs he estimated the flash to have occurred at 9:22 p.m. near the location where the last radar target of Flight 11 had been seen. Most of the fuselage was found near Unionville, but the engines and parts of the tail section and left wing were found up to six miles away from the main wreckage.\n\nOf the 45 individuals on board, 44 were dead when rescuers reached the crash site. One passenger, a 27-year-old man from Evanston, Illinois, was alive when rescuers found him in the wreckage, but he died of internal injuries at Saint Joseph Mercy Hospital in Centerville, Iowa, an hour and a half after being rescued.\n\nFBI agents discovered that Doty, a married man with a five-year-old daughter, had purchased a life insurance policy from Mutual of Omaha for $150,000, the maximum available; his death would also bring in another $150,000 in additional insurance (some purchased at the airport) and death benefits. Doty had recently been arrested for armed robbery, and was to soon face a preliminary hearing in the matter. Investigators determined that Doty had purchased six sticks of dynamite for 29 cents each shortly before the crash and were able to deduce that a bomb had been placed in the used towel bin of the right rear lavatory. Doty went into the lavatory with his briefcase and blew himself up, killing himself and everyone on board. His motive was so that his wife and daughter would be able to collect on the $300,000 of life insurance. His widow attempted to collect on the insurance, but, when Doty's death was ruled a suicide, the policy was voided, and the widow was only able to get a three dollar refund. Not talking publicly about the bombing, she died in 2008 at the age of 81.\n\nIn July 2010, a memorial was erected near the crash site in Unionville, Missouri on the anniversary of the crash.\n\nIn May 2012 a special 50th anniversary memorial service was held in Unionville.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849686", "title": "Ronald Mallett", "text": "Ronald Mallett\n\nRonald Lawrence Mallett (born March 30, 1945) is an American theoretical physicist, academic and author. He has been a faculty member of the University of Connecticut since 1975 and is best known for his scientific position on the possibility of time travel.\n\nMallett was born in Roaring Spring, Pennsylvania, on March 30, 1945, and grew up in The Bronx in New York City, New York. When he was 10 years old, his father died at age 33 of a heart attack. About one year later, at age 11, Mallett found a \"Classics Illustrated\" comic book version of H.G. Wells' \"The Time Machine\". Inspired by this literature, he resolved to travel back in time to save his father. This idea became a lifelong obsession and the basis of his research into time travel. Mallett served in the United States Air Force for four years, during the Vietnam War. He returned to civilian life in 1966. This was the year that the science fiction TV series \"\" started, in which he \"quickly became immersed\". During its first season, Mallett watched the episode \"The City on the Edge of Forever\" that \"involved both the theme of time travel and lost love\", and this became his favorite of the entire series.\n\nIn 1973, when he was 28 years old, Mallett earned his Ph.D. in physics from Pennsylvania State University. In the same year, he received the Graduate Assistant Award for Excellence in Teaching.\n\nIn 1975, Mallett was appointed a job as assistant professor at the University of Connecticut. He was promoted to the rank of full professor in 1987 and has received multiple academic honors and distinctions. His research interests include black holes, general relativity, quantum cosmology, relativistic astrophysics and time travel. As of 2018, he is a Professor Emeritus of Physics at the University of Connecticut.\n\nIn 2007, Mallett's life story of pursuing a time machine was told on \"This American Life\", Episode #324, Act 2.\n\nFor quite some time, Ronald Mallett has been working on plans for a time machine. This technology would be based upon a ring laser's properties in the context of Einstein's general theory of relativity. Mallett first argued that the ring laser would produce a limited amount of frame-dragging which might be measured experimentally, saying:\n\"In Einstein's General Theory of Relativity, both matter and energy can create a gravitational field. This means that the energy of a light beam can produce a gravitational field. My current research considers both the weak and strong gravitational fields produced by a single continuously circulating unidirectional beam of light. In the weak gravitational field of an unidirectional ring laser, it is predicted that a spinning neutral particle, when placed in the ring, is dragged around by the resulting gravitational field.\"\nIn a later paper, Mallett argued that at sufficient energies, the circulating laser might produce not just frame-dragging but also closed timelike curves (CTC), allowing time travel into the past:\n\nFor the strong gravitational field of a circulating cylinder of light, I have found new exact solutions of the Einstein field equations for the exterior and interior gravitational fields of the light cylinder. The exterior gravitational field is shown to contain closed timelike lines.The presence of closed timelike lines indicates the possibility of time travel into the past. This creates the foundation for a time machine based on a circulating cylinder of light.\nFunding for his program, now known as the Space-time Twisting by Light (STL) project, is progressing. Full details on the project, Mallett's theories, a list of upcoming public lectures and links to popular articles on his work can be found at the Mallett's faculty web page, and an illustration showing the concept on which Mallett has designed the time machine can be seen here.\n\nMallett also wrote a book entitled, \"Time Traveler: A Scientist's Personal Mission to Make Time Travel a Reality\", co-written with author Bruce Henderson, that was first published in 2006. In June 2008, motion picture director Spike Lee's production company announced it had acquired the film rights to Mallett's book. Lee is co-writing the movie script and directing the picture.\n\nIn 2006, Mallett declared that time travel into the past would be possible in the 21st century and possibly within a decade. Mallett used general relativity to attempt to substantiate his claims.\n\nHe created a prototype illustrating how lasers could be used to create a circulating beam of light that twists space and time, and has an equation which he claimed supports his theory.\n\nIn a paper by Ken Olum and Allen Everett the authors claimed to have found problems with Mallett's analysis. One of their objections is that the spacetime which Mallett used in his analysis contains a singularity even when the power to the laser is off and is not the spacetime that would be expected to arise naturally if the circulating laser were activated in previously empty space. Mallett has not offered a published response to Olum and Everett, but in his book \"Time Traveler\" he mentions that he was unable to directly model the optical fiber or photonic crystal which bends the light's path as it travels through it, so the light circulates around rather than moving in a straight line; as a substitute he chose to include a \"line source\" (a type of one-dimensional singularity) which would act as a \"geometric constraint\", bending spacetime in such a way that the light would circulate around on a helix-shaped path in a vacuum (for an older solution involving an infinite cylinder which creates CTCs, in this case due to the cylinder's own rotation rather than light circulating around it, see the Tipler cylinder). He notes that closed timelike curves are present in a spacetime containing both the line source and the circulating light, while they are not present in a spacetime containing only the line source, so that \"the closed loops in time had been produced by the circulating flow of light, and not by the non-moving line source.\" However, he does not provide any additional argument as to why we should expect to see closed timelike curves in a different spacetime where there is no line source, and where the light is caused to circulate due to passing through a physical substance like a photonic crystal rather than circulating in a vacuum due to the curved spacetime around the line source.\n\nAnother objection by Olum and Everett is that even if Mallett's choice of spacetime were correct, the energy required to twist spacetime sufficiently would be huge, and that with lasers of the type in use today the ring would have to be much larger in circumference than the observable universe. At one point Mallett agreed that in a vacuum the energy requirements would be impractical but noted that the energy required goes down as the speed of light goes down. He then argued that if the light is slowed down significantly by passing it through a medium (as in the experiments of Lene Hau where light was passed through a superfluid and slowed to about 17 metres per second) the needed energy would be attainable. However, the physicist J. Richard Gott argues that slowing down light by passing it through a medium cannot be treated as equivalent to lowering the constant \"c\" (the speed of light in a vacuum) in the equations of General Relativity, saying:\nOne has to distinguish between the speed of light in a vacuum, which is a constant, and through any other medium, which can vary enormously. Light travels more slowly through water than through empty space, for example, but this does not mean that you age more slowly while scuba diving or that it is easier to twist space-time underwater.<br>The experiments done so far don't lower the speed of light in empty space; they just lower the speed of light in a medium and should not make it easier to twist space-time. Thus, it should not take any less mass-energy to form a black hole or a time machine of a given size in such a medium.\nLater, Mallett abandoned the idea of using slowed light to reduce the energy, writing that, \"For a time, I considered the possibility that slowing down light might increase the gravitational frame dragging effect of the ring laser ... Slow light, however, turned out to be helpful for my research.\"\n\nFinally, Olum and Everett note a theorem proven by Stephen Hawking in a 1992 paper on the Chronology Protection Conjecture, which demonstrated that according to General Relativity it should be impossible to create closed timelike curves in any finite region that satisfies the weak energy condition, meaning that the region contains no exotic matter with negative energy. Mallett's original solution involved a spacetime containing a line source of infinite length, so it did not violate this theorem despite the absence of exotic matter, but Olum and Everett point out that the theorem \"would, however, rule out the creation of CTC's in any finite-sized approximation to this spacetime.\"\n\nMallett is a member of both the American Physical Society and the National Society of Black Physicists; his brother is artist Keith Mallett.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849698", "title": "Callophyllis variegata", "text": "Callophyllis variegata\n\nCallophyllis variegata, commonly known as carola, is a type of edible seaweed, a member of the genus \"Callophyllis\". \"Callophyllis variegata\" occurs in Concepción de Chile and other parts of South America such as Peru, the Falkland Islands, Tierra del Fuego. But also in New Guinea, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Alaska, St. Paul Island (Indian Ocean), Antarctic and subantarctic islands such as the Graham Land, Kerguelen, Macquarie Island, South Georgia, and the South Orkney Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849716", "title": "Writer's Digest", "text": "Writer's Digest\n\nWriter's Digest is an American magazine aimed at beginning and established writers. It contains interviews, market listings, calls for manuscripts, and how-to articles.\n\n\"Writer's Digest\" was established in 1920 under the name \"Successful Writing\", first issue, December. It changed name to \"Writer's Digest\" with the March 1921 issue. By the late 1920s, it shifted emphasis more from literary-quality writing to the rapidly growing pulp magazine field, which offered the widest opportunities to freelance writers. An important feature from 1933 forward was the New York Market Letter, edited by Harriet Bradfield, which gave timely updates on editor needs in the magazine field. As the pulp field collapsed in the 1950s, \"Writer's Digest\" shifted emphasis to famous writers and quality fiction.\n\nUntil 2019, it was owned by F+W Media. The magazine is published eight times per year.\n\nF+W Media, facing near-term liquidity issues with only about $2.5 million in cash available and $105.2 million in outstanding debt, filed on 10 Mar 19 for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code, citing in various documents a perfect storm of secular industry decline, poor investments, and even mismanagement.\nApparently their attempts to transition focus to online from print sales was poorly done. Their users forum had not worked well for some time, and the number of users had dropped way down from previous times.\n\n\"Writer's Digest\" was bought by the Active Interest Media subsidiary of Cruz Bay Publishing and/or PRH (Penguin Random House) after bankruptcy of F+W, according to various sources. Penguin Random House acquired the book publishing assets of F+W Media, which include the \"Writer's Digest\" catalog. Cruz Bay got several magazines from F+W, including \"Writer's Digest\", for $200,000, beating out enthusiast publisher Madavor Media.\n\n\"Writer's Digest\" also sponsors several in-house contests annually, including the \"Writer's Digest\" International Self-Published Book Awards and their Annual Writing Competition for short stories.\n\n\"Writer's Digest\" partnered with book publisher BookBaby, the sister company of CD Baby, in August 2014, to create a self-publishing division called Blue Ash Publishing, to provide instruction and education alongside book publishing and printing services. Blue Ash Publishing takes its name from the home office of the \"Writer’s Digest\" editorial team located in Blue Ash, Ohio.\n\nPaid circulation 63000 per 2017 media kit, down from 69000 in the 2016 media kit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849729", "title": "Caulerpa racemosa", "text": "Caulerpa racemosa\n\nCaulerpa racemosa is a species of edible green alga, a seaweed in the family Caulerpaceae. It is commonly known as sea grapes (along with the related \"Caulerpa lentillifera\") and is found in many areas of shallow sea around the world. There are a number of different forms and varieties, and one that appeared in the Mediterranean Sea in 1990, which is giving cause for concern as an invasive species.\n\nThere are about 75 species of \"Caulerpa\". Many of them exhibit polymorphism, showing different growth forms in different habitats which makes them difficult to identify. \"Caulerpa racemosa\", \"C. laetevirens\" and \"C. peltata\" form a species complex. A number of forms and varieties for \"C. racemosa\" are listed but further study is needed to clarify their exact phylogenetic relationships.\n\nA plant of \"C. racemosa\" consists of a number of branches linked to stolons which are anchored to the sandy substrate by rhizoids. The branches are a few centimetres apart and can grow to a height of . Many spherical or ovate side-shoots branch off these and give the seaweed its name of sea grapes. Like other members of the order Bryopsidales, each \"C. racemosa\" plant consists of a single enormous cell with a large number of nuclei. The chloroplasts containing chlorophyll are free to migrate from any part of the organism to another and there is a network of fibrous proteins that helps movement of organelles.\n\n\"C. racemosa\" is widely distributed in shallow temperate and tropical seas. In 1926 a new form of the alga was reported off Tunisia, possibly an immigrant from the Red Sea, and this later spread to much of the eastern Mediterranean Sea. In 1990, a new, larger form with two vertical rows of branches on opposite sides of the stem was found off Libya. It spread widely, invading much of the Mediterranean Sea and becoming more widespread than the invasive species, \"Caulerpa taxifolia\". It is known as \"C. racemosa var. cylindracea\" and may have originated from Australian waters. In America \"C. racemosa\" is found in shallow water in the Caribbean Sea, around Bermuda and along the eastern seaboard of America from Florida to Brazil.\n\nIn the Mediterranean, growth begins in April when new stolons develop and erect branches start growing, and continue till December, after which the plants decline and become dormant.\n\n\"C. racemosa\" reproduces vegetatively by fragmentation. When pieces of the plant get broken off they develop into new plants. Small pieces of tissue only a few millimetres across are capable of doing this.\n\n\"C. racemosa\" can also reproduce sexually and in so doing exhibits holocarpy. This means that all the organism's cytoplasm is used up in the creation of the gametes and only a husk remains at the site of the original plant. The plants are monoecious with male and female gametes being produced by the same plant and liberated into the water column where they unite to give spherical zygotes. These settle and after five weeks produce germ tubes which elongate and branch to develop into new plants. Mass spawnings sometimes take place in the Caribbean Sea and normally do so just before dawn. There were 39 such mass spawnings during a period of 125 days and the days on which they took place showed no relation to the tidal or lunar cycles. The gametes remain motile for about 60 minutes. Mass spawning is advantageous to the plant in increasing the chances of fertilisation. Underwater visibility can be reduced to less than one metre by the green cloud produced in the process. Similar mass spawnings take place in the Mediterranean Sea causing a cloud of green gametes to be released in the water approximately 14 minutes before sunrise.\n\n\"Caulerpa\" species contain secondary metabolites that are cytotoxic, of which caulerpenyne is the most abundant. These deter animals from consuming the plants. A study has been done on herbivores that graze on meadows of the invasive \"C. cylindracea\" in the north west of its range in the Mediterranean. The sea breams \"Boops boops\" and \"Sarpa salpa\" were found to feed on the algae, as did the sea urchins \"Paracentrotus lividus\" and \"Sphaerechinus granularis\". Other herbivores also grazed occasionally, but the total amount consumed was compensated for by the rapid growth of the plant and it was considered that these organisms were not likely to play a valuable role in bio-control of the plant. \"Caulerpa taxifolia\" and \"Caulerpa racemosa\" shows the great influence of substratum on their spatial distribution with a high colonization of the dead matte of the seagrass \"Posidonia oceanica\"\n\nCaulerpenyne content is lesser in \"Caulerpa racemosa\" than in the related and also invasive Lessepsian migrant \"Caulerpa taxifolia\".\n\nLike the closely related \"Caulerpa lentillifera\", \"C. racemosa\" is edible. It is consumed widely in salads in Japan, Fiji, the Philippines, and Thailand. It is also eaten by local fishermen in Malaysia and Indonesia. They are rich in fiber, proteins, minerals (calcium and magnesium), folic acid, ascorbic acid, vitamin A, and vitamin B1 while also being low in fat.\n"}
{"id": "1849730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849730", "title": "Missing Sun motif", "text": "Missing Sun motif\n\nThe missing Sun motif is a theme in the myths of various cultures. It may have served to explain any of several natural phenomena, including the disappearance of the Sun at night (the Egyptian version of the motif described below is an example), the shorter days during the winter (for example, the Japanese one mentioned below), or even solar eclipses. Most myths following the motif involve the disappearance of a solar deity, through imprisonment, exile or death.\n\nSome other tales are similar, such as the Sumerian story of Inanna's descent into the underworld. These may have parallel themes but do not fit in this motif unless they concern a solar deity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849736", "title": "Hans Baumann (writer)", "text": "Hans Baumann (writer)\n\nHans Baumann (22 April 1914 – 7 November 1988) was a German poet, songwriter, literary translator and author of children's books.\n\nBorn in Amberg, Bavaria, in 1914 into a military family, Baumann was a German nationalist. He belonged to the Catholic organization \"New Germany\". He started writing songs and poems when he was still an adolescent (e.g. \"Macht keinen Lärm\", 1933). In 1934 he was noticed by the Hitler Youth leadership and invited to Berlin to work as a songwriter, author and journalist.\n\nIn 1935, Baumann applied for membership in \"SS-Sturm 11/75\". He joined the NSDAP in 1933. Then, he served two years in the \"Wehrmacht\".\n\nIn the 1930s he wrote numerous poems, ballads and songs with various themes, both political and romantic. Some of his songs, such as his famous 1932 \"Es zittern die morschen Knochen\" (\"The frail bones tremble\", especially known for the line changed, \"\"Denn heute da hört uns Deutschland/Und morgen die ganze Welt\"\", in English \"For today Germany hears us/But tomorrow the whole world shall\", where \"da hört\" was frequently replaced by \"gehört\", \"belongs to\") which became the official marching song of the Reichsarbeitsdienst in 1935, were enormously popular within the National Socialist movement, and are naturally no longer accepted today. Others, like the ballad \"Hohe Nacht der klaren Sterne\", were of less Nazi content and are to some degree still sung today. The song collections \"Unser Trommelbube\", \"Wir zünden das Feuer\", \"Der helle Tag\" and others date from that period.\n\nIn September 1938, when Baumann visited Passau, the \"Donau-Zeitung\" informed its readers that Baumann was on his way to Bulgaria. The newspaper also announced Baumann's latest contribution to \"Bayerische Ostmark\", where he praised Passau.\n\nIn February 1939, Baumann returned to Veste Oberhaus at Passau, where he recited from his new play \"Rüdiger von Bechelaren\". In July 1940, the play was performed there for the second time.\n\nAt the outset of World War II he joined the German army in 1939 and spent most of the war on the Eastern front in a propaganda unit (Propagandakompanie 501). Continuing his work as much as possible throughout the war, he wrote two collections of war poems (\"Briefgedichte\", 1941 and \"Der Wandler Krieg\" in 1942).\n\nIn December 1942, Baumann returned to Passau again. This time, to marry Elisabeth Zoglmann at Veste Oberhaus. Among his guests was Hans Carossa.\n\nIn April 1944, the \"Donau-Zeitung\" reported about a rally where Hans Baumann addressed Passau Hitler Youth.\n\nAfter the war and a period spent in a prisoner of war camp, he distanced himself from the policies of the National Socialist government and made a remarkable comeback as one of the most popular contemporary writers for children and teenagers. His novels dealt with natural and historical themes (e.g. \"I Marched with Hannibal\", \"The Sons of the Steppe\", \"Barnabas the Dancing Bear\", \"The Barque of the Brothers\", \"Son of Columbus\", \"In the Land of Ur\") and won a number of international prizes, including the New York Herald Tribune prize for the best children's book in 1968 and the Batchelder Award in 1971. They have been compared to the novels of Rosemary Sutcliff, his earlier books described as major works: \"long complicated stories, full of difficult concepts and problems of psychology\".\n\nHis attempted strides into other literature genres were less successful as he was viewed with suspicion by the post-war German literary and political circles because of his past NS involvement. In 1962 he was at a center of a literary controversy when forced to return the prestigious Gerhard-Hauptmann Prize received in 1959 for his drama \"Im Zeichen der Fische\" (written under a pseudonym), after his real identity was revealed. Baumann was also an accomplished translator, having translated numerous books from Russian to German, including works by Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Anna Akhmatova and others. His own work was translated into more than twenty languages.\n\nHe died in Murnau am Staffelsee (Bavaria) on November 7, 1988.\n\nWorks translated into English\n\n"}
{"id": "1849742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849742", "title": "Damien Sandow", "text": "Damien Sandow\n\nAron Steven Haddad (born August 3, 1982) is an American professional wrestler and actor best known for wrestling with WWE under the ring name Damien Sandow. He currently wrestles on the independent circuit, most notably for National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) as Aron Stevens. He is also known for his time in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling and the independent circuit under the ring name Aron Rex, where he was the first-ever Impact Grand Champion in 2016. Starting in January 2017 he took a break from wrestling, instead focusing more on acting. In 2019 he would return to the ring, later debuting for the NWA in September of that year.\n\nHaddad started wrestling in 2001, and began appearing for WWE in 2002 as Aaron Stevens on \"Heat\". From 2003 to 2006, Haddad wrestled in WWE's developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). In 2006, Haddad reappeared on the WWE main roster as Idol Stevens, teaming with KC James and allying with Michelle McCool. In 2007, Haddad was released from WWE, first embarking on a return to OVW, no longer WWE's official developmental territory, in 2008 and then from 2009 to 2010, wrestling in Puerto Rico for World Wrestling Council (WWC).\n\nSigning again with WWE in 2010, he was assigned to a developmental territory, Florida Championship Wrestling, where he adopted the Damien Sandow moniker. In 2012, Sandow returned to WWE's main roster as an arrogant intellectual. In 2013, Sandow won the Money in the Bank match for a World Heavyweight Championship opportunity, and became the first to lose the cashed-in title match. In 2014, Sandow became a comedic impersonator, leading up to an alliance with The Miz, serving as his stunt double Damien Mizdow. The duo won the WWE Tag Team Championship before the team split in 2015. He briefly teamed with Curtis Axel, shortly before returning to singles action, and was released in 2016.\n\nHaddad started training under Killer Kowalski at the age of 16. Three years later, Haddad made his debut as Aaron Stevens on June 23, 2001, with a loss to Chris Harvard in Chaotic Wrestling. In October 2001, Stevens and Edward G. Xtasy (as part of One Night Stand) defeated Little Guido Maritato and Luis Ortiz for the Chaotic Wrestling Tag Team Championship, losing the title two months later to John Walters and Vince Vicallo.\n\nFrom November 2002 to May 2003, Stevens also wrestled for World Wrestling Alliance (WWA), where he beat Danny Davis for the WWA Heavyweight Championship but lost it a day later to Jonah Adelman. During this period, he also received two singles title shots for the Chaotic Wrestling Heavyweight Championship and one for the Chaotic Wrestling New England Championship, but lost them all.\n\nStevens signed a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) after receiving numerous try-out matches on \"Heat\" against opponents such as Steven Richards and Maven. Sandow had his WWE's pay-per-view debut match in 2003 at Vengeance as the Easter Bunny in a match with the APA. He also participated in an angle where he had his fingers \"broken\" by Raven on \"Heat\".\n\nStevens, now with the tweaked name Aaron \"The Idol\" Stevens, was assigned to WWE's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). At a house show in 2004, Stevens and Nova beat Chris Cage and Tank Toland to win the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship.\n\nOn January 4, 2006, Stevens won the OVW Television Championship after replacing Ken Doane in a three-way match with Brent Albright and then-champion CM Punk. Doane was injured halfway through the match and Stevens came out to replace him.<ref name=\"OVW-01/04/06\"></ref> At the March 8 television taping, Paul Burchill cost Stevens the Television Championship against Seth Skyfire.\n\nOn August 4, 2006, Stevens made his \"SmackDown!\" debut as Idol Stevens when he was introduced (along with KC James) by Michelle McCool as one of her favorite \"teacher's pets\". The two went on to defeat Funaki and Scotty 2 Hotty with the help of McCool. The following week, Stevens and James defeated WWE Tag Team Champions Paul London and Brian Kendrick in a non-title match. On the August 18 show, Stevens and James ambushed the Tag Team Champions.\n\nThe two teams began feuding, with London and Kendrick bringing in Ashley Massaro to counteract McCool. The feud briefly encompassed the team of Jamie Noble and Kid Kash, who also wanted a Tag Team title shot. Stevens and James got their WWE Tag Team Championship shot at No Mercy on October 8, but failed to win the titles. Soon after, both Stevens and James were taken off television and sent back to Ohio Valley Wrestling.\n\nAfter being removed from the \"SmackDown!\" roster when Michelle McCool was hospitalized, Stevens returned to OVW. He lost to Charles Evans upon his return and no mention of his tag team venture with KC James was made. On March 14, 2007 he defeated Paul Burchill to win the OVW Heavyweight Championship. On May 9, after title defences against Cody Runnels and Mike Mondo, Burchill defeated Stevens to regain the OVW Championship. The championship was vacated and Stevens lost to Jay Bradley in a three-way match including Burchill. On June 8, Stevens defeated Burchill in a Number One OVW Heavyweight Contendership match.\n\nHe got his title match in a three-way match, again including champion Jay Bradley and Paul Burchill. The match was not only for Bradley's title, but also Stevens's car and Burchill's house. Bradley defeated both men and won all the stakes. His last match for OVW before his release was a two-ring steel cage flag match, which, along with Al Snow, Atlas DaBone, Chet The Jett and Colt Cabana, he defeated Michael W. Kruel, Ramon, Raul, The Belgium Brawler and Vladimir Kozlov.\nStevens was officially released by WWE on August 6, 2007.\n\nStevens made his return to the independent circuit at NWA 60th Anniversary Show losing to Mike DiBiase II in a match for the NWA North American Heavyweight Championship. He appeared for XCW Wrestling Mid-West and Derby City Wrestling for the next few months before re-signing with OVW. On November 7, 2008 he lost to Steve Boz at A Tribute Fit For The King, a tribute show for Jerry Lawler.\n\nIn February 2008, OVW ceased to be WWE's developmental territory. Stevens returned to OVW on November 12, 2008, losing to OVW Heavyweight Champion Anthony Bravado in a non-title bout. The following week, the two were featured in a triple threat match with Jacob Duncan that went off the air before the match could finish. Stevens and Bravado faced off again in a match for the title on November 26, which Stevens won, becoming a two-time champion. On December 3, 2008, he teamed up with U-Gene to take part in OVW Southern Tag Team Championship number one contendership tournament, in round one they defeated Theta Lampda Psi. A week later, they lost to Anthony Bravado and The Buck. Stevens lost the title to Vaughn Lilas at the January 14, 2009 television taping. In February 2009, he lost to Mike Mondo in an OVW Television Championship match which also included Johnny Punch. His last match for OVW was on February 11, a rematch for the championship which Mondo again won.\n\nIdol returned to Puerto Rico, but in a different promotion, the World Wrestling Council, where he was the \"protegido\" of Jose Chaparro and a member of the \"American Family\". He debuted on February 28, 2009, defeating Angel. He defeated BJ for the WWC Puerto Rico Heavyweight Championship, before losing it to Shane Sewell. On August 15, 2009, Stevens and Shawn Spears defeated Thunder and Lightning to become the new WWC World Tag Team Champions. Stevens later feuded with Shawn Spears, which ended at Euphoria 2010. Stevens won the WWC Tag Team Champion with King Tonga Jr. by defeating Thunder and Lightning.\n\nOn October 31, Stevens and Spears lost the Tag Team Championship back to Thunder and Lightning. On February 20, 2010, Chicano named Stevens his new Tag Team Championship partner to replace Bryan. On March 13, Thunder and Lightning defeated Stevens and Chicano to win the titles. After Stevens regained the titles with King Tonga Jr., the duo lost them to Los Aerios (Carlitos and Hiram Tua) on April 24. Stevens regained the Tag Team Championship from Los Aerios on June 11, this time teaming with Abbad, and lost it to Thunder and Lightning in a three-way match involving BJ and Chicano on July 11. His last match for WWC before signing with WWE came on July 31, losing to Joe Don Smith.\n\nOn July 14, 2010, it was reported that Stevens had signed a new developmental deal with WWE, and was assigned to their developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW). He changed his ring name to Damien Sandow (sharing the surname of the Gold Dust Trio's Billy Sandow and the \"father of modern bodybuilding\" Eugen Sandow), while adopting a new militant gimmick. On December 3, Sandow won the FCW Florida Tag Team Championship with Titus O'Neill by defeating Xavier Woods and Mason Ryan in a match for the vacant championship. They lost the championship to Richie Steamboat and Seth Rollins on March 25, 2011. After losing the title, Sandow turned on O'Neill and joined the group formed by Lucky Cannon, Aksana, and Maxine. Following the dissolution of the group, Sandow adopted the gimmick of a verbose intellectual. Then, he beat Rollins on September 22 to win the FCW Jack Brisco 15 Championship. On January 13, 2012, Sandow lost the FCW 15 Championship to Steamboat.\n\nHaddads main roster character upon his return, Damien Sandow, was described as a \"braggart, condescending intellectual heel\". After his second WWE run ended, Haddad said that his initial purpose in building the 'Intellectual Savior of the Unwashed Masses' character was \"to do anything I could to stand out\". Given \"freedom to execute the character\", Haddad stopped shaving, began wearing a bathrobe (proposed by Dusty Rhodes for a robe like Lou Thesz's) to \"present\" his pink trunks when the robe was taken off, and using the \"Hallelujah Chorus\" as his entrance music. Haddad also credited Mike Rotunda, Triple H and Brian James for their help in guiding him.\n\nOn the April 6, 2012 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow appeared in a pre-taped interview denouncing popular culture and extolling his virtues. After weeks of vignettes, Sandow made his WWE in-ring return under the new gimmick on the May 4 episode of \"SmackDown\", but refused to compete against Derrick Bateman, claiming that the audience would neither learn nor benefit from him facing an inferior opponent. On the May 18 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow refused to wrestle against Yoshi Tatsu, but Tatsu accused Sandow of being a coward and Sandow assaulted him. On the May 25 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow defeated Tatsu in his debut match. The following week, he refused to face Ezekiel Jackson, and despite Jackson forcing the match to begin, Sandow won. On the June 8 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow went to attack Hornswoggle but was intercepted by Tyson Kidd before he could do so. The following week on \"SmackDown\", Sandow defeated Kidd.\nOn the June 29 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow defeated Zack Ryder to qualify for the World Heavyweight Championship Money in the Bank ladder match at Money in the Bank. However, the match was won by Dolph Ziggler. On July 23 at \"Raw 1000\", Sandow interrupted D-Generation X (DX) and claimed that their sophomoric and disgusting behaviour had brainwashed society; he also declared that he would be a martyr if DX disposed of him, and DX assaulted him regardless. Sandow then began a feud with Brodus Clay on the July 30 episode of \"Raw\", attacking Clay when he laughed at a video of Sandow's beatdown at the hands of DX. Sandow and Clay finally faced off on the August 20 episode of \"Raw\", where Sandow won after a roll-up, but was attacked by Clay after the match. On the August 31 \"SmackDown\", Sandow had his first singles loss after being intentionally counted out against World Heavyweight Champion Sheamus, who would later hand Sandow his first pinfall loss in October.\nOn the September 21 \"SmackDown\", Sandow aligned himself with Cody Rhodes, and they started a feud with WWE Tag Team Champions Team Hell No (Daniel Bryan and Kane). The duo, which adopted the team name of Team Rhodes Scholars (a play on the Rhodes Scholarship) , entered a tournament a week later on \"SmackDown\", and defeated the Usos to advance. Team Rhodes Scholars defeated Santino Marella and Zack Ryder in the semi-finals, and then Rey Mysterio and Sin Cara in the finals to earn a shot at the tag titles. Team Rhodes Scholars got their title opportunity against Team Hell No on October 28 at Hell in a Cell, where they won by disqualification, thus Team Hell No retained the titles. This led to a title rematch on the November 14 episode of \"Main Event\", which Team Hell No won. During the match, Rhodes suffered several legitimate injuries, placing their partnership on hold.\n\nOn the November 23 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow unsuccessfully challenged Kofi Kingston for the Intercontinental Championship, his first singles title opportunity in WWE. From December 2012, Sandow began a regular segment in which he unsuccessfully searched for an 'apprentice' by quizzing members of the audience. Sandow and Rhodes reunited on the December 10 episode of \"Raw\" and won a fatal four-way tag team elimination match, earning them the right to face Rey Mysterio and Sin Cara in a number one contender Tables match at six days later, which Team Rhodes Scholars won. Team Rhodes Scholars received their title shot on the following episode of \"Main Event\", but were again defeated by Team Hell No. On the January 7, 2013, episode of \"Raw\", Team Rhodes Scholars defeated Team Hell No in a non-title match to earn another shot at the WWE Tag Team Championship. The title rematch took place on January 27 at the Royal Rumble, where Team Rhodes Scholars once again failed to capture the tag team titles.\n\nOn the February 1 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow and Rhodes briefly dissolved Team Rhodes Scholars while remaining \"best friends\", only to reunite on February 17 at the pre-show of Elimination Chamber in a loss to the team of Brodus Clay and Tensai. Sandow and Rhodes then aligned themselves with The Bella Twins in a feud against Tons of Funk (Clay and Tensai) and the Funkadactyls (Cameron and Naomi).<ref name=\"Raw3/25/13\"></ref> The two teams were originally booked to face each other in an eight-person mixed tag team match on April 7 at WrestleMania 29, but their match was cut due to time constraints. The match instead took place the following night on \"Raw\", where Tons of Funk and the Funkadactyls emerged victorious.\n\nOn the May 15 episode of \"NXT\", Sandow unsuccessfully challenged Big E Langston for the NXT Championship. While Sandow hosted a series of mental challenges on \"SmackDown\", Sheamus repeatedly interrupted Sandow and tried to solve the challenges. However, when Sheamus failed to solve the puzzles, he instead resorted to physical violence by attacking Sandow. On June 16, during the Payback pre-show, Sandow was defeated by Sheamus. The following night on \"Raw\", Team Rhodes Scholars defeated Sheamus in a handicap match after Sandow pinned him with a roll-up. The rivalry culminated in a Dublin Street Fight on the June 28 \"SmackDown\", where Sheamus defeated Sandow.\nThe July 14 Money in the Bank pay-per-view marked the beginning of the end for Team Rhodes Scholars. Both Rhodes and Sandow entered the World Heavyweight Championship Money in the Bank ladder match; just as Rhodes was about to win the match, Sandow threw Rhodes off the ladder and retrieved the briefcase himself to earn the opportunity to challenge for the World Heavyweight Championship at any time of his choosing within the next year. Despite winning the briefcase, Sandow went on to lose many matches before his cash-in, with a total of 1 win and 12 losses on \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\". The split of Team Rhodes Scholars was confirmed the next night on \"Raw\" when Rhodes attacked Sandow. Rhodes dominated the feud between him and Sandow; throwing Sandow's briefcase into the Gulf of Mexico, which forced Sandow to introduce a new custom-made briefcase; thwarting Sandow's attempt to cash-in on a vulnerable Alberto Del Rio; and defeating Sandow twice in singles matches, one of which was at SummerSlam.\n\nAfter moving on from his feud with Rhodes, Sandow went on to lose to the likes of R-Truth, Santino Marella and Dolph Ziggler. On the October 28 \"Raw\", Sandow confronted World Heavyweight Champion John Cena; stating his belief that Cena's arm was still injured following Cena's match against Alberto Del Rio at Hell in a Cell, Sandow assaulted Cena's arm and then cashed in his Money in the Bank contract, but Cena won the match by pinfall. This made Sandow the second wrestler to fail to win a title upon cash-in (after Cena himself), and the first to lose a cash-in outright. \"Forbes\" wrote in 2016 that Sandow's 2012 intellectual character \"quickly won over the fans and showed his potential as one of the top heels on the main roster\", but his \"career never recovered\" from losing the Money in the Bank cash-in. Haddad later said, \"I absolutely did think I was going to take that [next] big step\" after his character won Money in the Bank, but \"circumstances dictated otherwise\". Despite being scripted to lose to Cena, Haddad was \"very proud\" that he delivered \"a performance of a lifetime\" that night.\n\nAfter Sandow's cash-in, he was noted to have become more generic as he stopped doing cartwheels and started wearing plain black ring attire. Sandow's misfortune continued when he challenged Intercontinental Champion Big E Langston to a title match at and lost. In January 2014, Sandow entered the 2014 Royal Rumble and was the first eliminated, courtesy of CM Punk. He then started a losing streak that lasted until May, which included him losing to the likes of Darren Young, being pinned in an eight-man tag match, and losing to Sin Cara in one minute.\n\nOn the April 28 \"Raw\", Sandow dressed as Magneto to confront guest star Hugh Jackman (who plays Wolverine in the \"X-Men\" film series) and Dolph Ziggler, which resulted in Sandow being attacked by both Jackman and Ziggler. On the May 12 \"Raw\" and its pre-show, Sandow started delivering worked shoot comments displaying his apparent dissatisfaction at his position in WWE, resulting in his microphone being turned off. Sandow later made comments with allusions to being handcuffed.\n\nSandow then transitioned into a comedic impersonator, and from May 20 he started to dress as a different character every week, sometimes wrestling as them. These characters included Sherlock Holmes, Bruce Springsteen, Abraham Lincoln, Paul Revere, a rapper called D-Sizzle and an interpretive dancer. He also mimicked other wrestlers, such as Shawn Michaels, Bret Hart, and Vince McMahon. Haddad reflected after his release that when he was \"dressing up as someone new every week\", \"other guys said I should be doing something else\", but back then he was willing to \"go with it\" to capture \"attention\", though he said, \"I didn't know where or how it was going to end up\".\nFrom August, Sandow formed an alliance with The Miz, whose persona was that of an arrogant movie star. Sandow was 'hired' by Miz to be his \"stunt double\", which initially entailed him taking bumps for Miz and later expanded to him mimicking every move Miz made during his matches, as well as Miz's mannerisms when not wrestling. During this period, Sandow's ring name was tweaked to Damien Mizdow to reflect his new role. Haddad later detailed how he was initially not aware whether being the stunt double was a \"one-time thing\" like his previous impersonations or a long-term storyline, and that WWE only decided to make it a long-term storyline \"about two or three weeks\" into the Mizdow act. Haddad also said that mimicking Miz's actions in the ring was a \"completely on the whim\" improvisation, with him and the Miz never rehearsing any of their actions.\n\nAt Night of Champions in September, Mizdow's interference helped Miz win the Intercontinental Championship from Dolph Ziggler. Miz lost his title back to Ziggler the following night in a rematch on \"Raw\". Mizdow's antics soon endeared him to WWE fans and he became popular with live audiences, who would often boo Miz during matches and chant \"We want Mizdow!\".\nAt Survivor Series, Mizdow and Miz won the WWE Tag Team Championship after defeating defending champions Gold and Stardust, The Usos and Los Matadores in Fatal 4-Way tag team match. This was Mizdow's first championship in WWE. By this time, Mizdow had become one of the most popular wrestlers in WWE.\n\nOn the December 29 episode of \"Raw\", they lost the titles to The Usos. On the same night, they were defeated by the debuting Ascension. Miz and Mizdow then began to show dissension, with Miz becoming angry at Mizdow's positive crowd reactions and accusing Mizdow of trying to 'upstage' him. On the February 2 episode of \"Raw\", The Miz relegated Mizdow from being a stunt double to a personal assistant.\n\nMizdow turned face for the first time in his WWE career, when he finally split away from The Miz at WrestleMania 31 in the Andre the Giant Memorial Battle Royal, but the \"red hot babyface in waiting\" (as described by \"Forbes\") was the last wrestler eliminated, courtesy of Big Show. Haddad described WrestleMania 31 being one of his \"favorite memories in the WWE\", due to \"feeling the surge of 83,000 people chanting\" for him when he split from Miz, a \"genuine, 100-percent real emotional response on a grand stage\" that would eclipse any \"award\" or \"accolade\". Post-WrestleMania, Mizdow (now accompanied by The Miz's \"\" co-star Summer Rae) then feuded with The Miz over the next several weeks, trading victories on \"Raw\" before challenging Miz to a match for the rights to the Miz brand on the April 20 episode. The Miz won the match after Summer Rae betrayed Mizdow by raking him in the eyes, allowing Miz to hit the Skull-Crushing Finale and pick up the win. As a result of the loss, Mizdow returned to his former name, Damien Sandow. The manner of the breakup between Miz and Sandow was extremely criticized by critics for poor storyline writing which made Sandow look like a fool post-WrestleMania and also diminishing the feud to an \"afterthought\".\nReturning to the Damien Sandow ring name on the April 27 episode of \"Raw\", Sandow was thanking fans for their support when he was interrupted by Curtis Axel. Sandow began to parrot after Axel, who had been mimicking Hulk Hogan. Sandow won the ensuing scuffle with a Hogan leg drop. On the April 30 episode of \"SmackDown\", Sandow parroted ring announcer JoJo before facing and defeating Axel. In May 2015, Sandow began impersonating Randy Savage as Macho Mandow, while he and Axel suffered attacks by The Ascension to start a feud. Mandow and Axel's alliance was known as The Meta Powers, a parody of The Mega Powers. At Payback, the Meta Powers were defeated by the Ascension. Various critics expressed disappointment that Sandow was still restricted to doing comedic impersonations. The Meta Powers stopped their respective impersonations from July 24, after WWE severed ties with Hulk Hogan.\n\nThe end of The Meta Powers marked a further decline in Sandow's fortunes. The \"Wrestling Observer\" wrote that \"Sandow had been used sparingly since then, usually in an enhancement role or in battle royals\"; while \"PWInsider\" described that \"Sandow never recovered nor had a regular storyline beyond that point\", yet \"his appearance would get a big reaction from fans at live events\". From July to October 2015, Sandow never wrestled a televised match, being restricted to wrestling dark matches or at live events.\nSandow returned to television on the November 14, 2015 episode of \"Main Event\" as his original \"Intellectual Savior\" character, defeating Heath Slater. Following that, Sandow never won another televised match for WWE. At the 2016 Royal Rumble kickoff, Sandow and Darren Young failed to qualify for the Royal Rumble match when they lost a four-way tag team match. In February, after Sandow posted a tribute to his grandmother on Twitter, possibly indicating her recent death, WWE allowed Sandow to take time off to spend time with family. At WrestleMania 32, Sandow was quickly eliminated from the Andre the Giant Memorial Battle Royal by Shaquille O'Neal. Sandow returned to \"Raw\" on April 25, but his match against Baron Corbin never started due to Dolph Ziggler attacking Corbin; with \"Pro Wrestling Torch\" describing that Sandow's appearance \"got one of the best reactions of the night\". Corbin defeated Sandow in under two minutes on that week's \"SmackDown\". On the May 2 episode of \"Raw\", Sandow competed in a battle royal for a shot at the WWE United States Championship, but was eliminated early in the match; the \"Wrestling Observer\" wrote that \"his elimination was one of the louder reactions in the match\". Then, Sandow's final two televised matches for WWE saw him lose to Titus O'Neil on \"Main Event\" and Darren Young on \"Superstars\"; Sandow wrestled the latter match as a heel.\nOn May 6, 2016, Sandow was released from WWE. His release caused him to become a top 5 Twitter trend in the United States. Mike Johnson of \"PWInsider\" described Sandow's release as \"mind-boggling\" and \"shocking\" due to \"the level of popularity that Sandow has with fans\". Johnson listed more of Sandow's positives: \"Sandow had size, could talk\", and \"no matter what role he was in, he received a big reaction\": \"fans recognized was vastly underutilized by the company and pushed for him to have a bigger role\". Meanwhile, the \"Wrestling Observer\" described Sandow as \"a popular undercard wrestler who always got bigger crowd reactions than his push\", while \"Pro Wrestling Dot Net\" reported that Sandow, a \"popular undercard wrestler\", \"has been in career tailspin mode for some time\" up to his release. \"Forbes\" lamented in reference to the releases of Sandow and Wade Barrett: \"... it's a hard pill to swallow when you realize that two stars who could have been World champion never got the chance to\".\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" interviewed Haddad within a week of his release. Haddad was \"grateful\" for a \"great\" second run in WWE where he \"traveled the world\" and \"had a bunch of fun\". Given that his main aim as a performer was \"to get the audience to feel something, to evoke some kind of emotion\", Haddad had no regrets leaving since he felt he \"took the audience through the whole spectrum of emotions in four years\": first \"there was an extreme feeling of dislike towards\" the Sandow character upon its debut, and years later, the Mizdow character was cheered to a point that \"there are guys that are in the main event that don't get cheers like that\". As for his release, Haddad was \"not really\" surprised as he thought he \"had gone through the gamut\" with the impersonator character. Describing himself as an empathetic individual, Haddad had \"no problem\" with WWE giving other wrestlers television time at his expense so that they could \"show their craft\" and become popular, while he was already popular whatever \"spot\" WWE put him. Although there were several alternate options of using Haddad, including \"repackaging\" his character, \"doing a parody of current events\", or becoming a commentator, ultimately, Haddad did not \"fit\" into WWE's plans.\n\nAfter being released from WWE, Haddad announced on his official Twitter account that he would once again be taking independent bookings, returning to his Aron Stevens ring name. He said he \"took select dates\" for wrestling, wanting to \"say thank you to the fans\", \"to meet them, and have a chance to talk to them\". His first independent appearance was on June 11 at a co-promoted show organized by Global Force Wrestling (GFW) and WrestlePro, where he defeated Colt Cabana. Haddad also made appearances at Warriors of Wrestling and Tier 1 Wrestling events. On June 14, 2016, Haddad signed for What Culture Pro Wrestling (WCPW) and was scheduled to debut the weekend of July 27–28, 2016. He was victorious in his debut match, where he defeated Doug Williams to become the #1 contender for the WCPW Championship.\n\nAfter a two-year hiatus, he made his return to the ring in July 2019 under a new gimmick, the Millenial Slayer. On July 18, Sandow wrestled his first match back, at a Battle Arts Academy show under the name Aron Stevens.\n\nOn August 10, 2016, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) released a promo teasing the acquisition of Stevens. On the August 11, 2016 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Stevens made his debut under the ring name Aron Rex, cutting a promo in the ring and confronting the Impact World Heavyweight, X Division and King of the Mountain Champion Lashley at the end of the show. A week later, he announced that he would be the special guest referee in the No. 1 contender's match between Ethan Carter III and Drew Galloway. At the end of that match, he was attacked by Galloway over his frustrations due to losing the match. The next week, after Galloway explained his actions, Rex interrupted him and brawled with him before being separated by officials. Rex then entered himself in the inaugural Impact Grand Championship tournament and had his debut match on the September 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", defeating Trevor Lee. The next week, he defeated Eli Drake in the semi-finals and faced rival Drew Galloway in the finals of the tournament at Bound for Glory. Galloway was replaced by Eddie Edwards due to an injury. Rex won the tournament and the championship by split decision. On December 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", during an Open Challenge for the championship, Moose defeated Rex. Moose successfully retained his title against Rex in a rematch the following week.\n\nAfter a hiatus, Rex returned on the January 12, 2017 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" debuting a Liberace-inspired character, with a new clean shaven look and sporting plucked eyebrows, lip gloss, a fur coat, naked trunks and oversized rings on all fingers, along with Rockstar Spud as his new manager. On January 19 episode of \"Impact\", Rex and Spud defeated the team of Robbie E and Swoggle in his last professional wrestling match to date. On April 4, 2017 Stevens announced that he was no longer with the now renamed Impact Wrestling and that he would be taking a break from wrestling to focus on acting.\n\nOn the October 15 episode of National Wrestling Alliance's \"NWA Power\", Sandow announced he was returning to the ring and would be wrestling again under the Aron Stevens name. On December 14, at NWA Into the Fire, Stevens defeated previous champion Colt Cabana and Ricky Starks in a Triple Threat match to win the NWA National Championship.\n\nHaddad has appeared on Xavier Woods' gaming YouTube channel \"UpUpDownDown\".\n\nAs of 2019, Haddad co-hosts a wrestling podcast titled On the Mat.\n\nHaddad also appears in the following video games:\nHaddad is Catholic and has attended mass at the EWTN chapel.\n\nHaddad practiced Wah Lum Kung Fu from the ages of 5 to 16, when he abandoned it in favor of wrestling.\n\nHaddad has been taking acting classes, including Shakespearean acting. He is considering acting in films, but has not ruled out television or stage acting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849744", "title": "Springbank distillery", "text": "Springbank distillery\n\nThe Springbank distillery is a family-owned single malt whisky distillery on the Kintyre Peninsula in western Scotland. It is owned by J & A Mitchell & Company, who also owns the Glengyle Distillery, the oldest independent bottler, William Cadenheads, and several blended scotch labels. Licensed in 1828, Springbank is one of the last surviving producers of single malt whiskies in Campbeltown, an area that once had over thirty active distilleries. The distillery produces three types of peated and unpeated malt whisky that it bottles under three distinct brands. The majority of its distillate is bottled as a single malt, with a small percentage sold to larger blenders or ending up in one of J&A Mitchell's own blended scotch labels, such as Campbeltown Loch.\n\nSpringbank produces three variants from its distillery by tweaking the production process at various stages. None of the malts produced at this distillery are chill-filtered, and they do not contain colorants, such as caramel E150.\n\nSpringbank is the only Scottish distillery to perform every step in the whisky making process, from malting the barley to bottling the spirit. Several distilleries malt some percentage of their barley and source the balance from an industrial malting facility, such as Port Ellen; however, Springbank maintains a traditional malting floor that provides for 100% of their distillate.\n\nSpringbank then dries its barley using peat sourced from Islay for various lengths of time (30 to 48 hours) to imbue different levels of the smoky flavor associated with Scottish whisky. Unpeated malt becomes Hazelburn, whereas medium-peated and heavily peated malts become the distillery's Springbank and Longrow labels, respectively. Once dried, the barley is ground into grist, mixed with warm water in a cast iron open-top mash tun to extract the barley sugars, the wort is cooled, then pumped into six boatskin larch washbacks to ferment for 72-110 hours and produce what's now called 'wash'. This long fermentation period allows for the formation of esters that shape the fruity secondary characteristics that help make the identity of the final product. The alcoholic wash goes on to the stills for the distillation phase. \n\nSpringbank uses three copper pot stills (one using direct-fire, the other two using steam) used in various combinations to produce its malts: Hazelburn (unpeated) is triple-distilled to produce a lighter, higher ABV end product of 74-76% ABV. The medium-peated Springbank is two and a half times distilled: during the distillation process some of the low wines are collected before the second distillation, and then mixed back into the feints for another distillation. This means that some parts of the spirit have been through the stills twice and some parts three times; hence, the \"half\" distillation. The amount of spirit that goes through the \"half\" time is judged by the stillman as the process takes place to ensure consistency. It emerged at around 71-72% ABV. The heavily peated Longrow is double-distilled leaving a heavier, smoky distillate that leaves the still at 68% ABV. The distillery employs traditional worm-tub condensers, which limit copper contact and make for a richer, oilier spirit.\n\nThe spirit is then aged primarily in ex-bourbon and ex-sherry casks, although Springbank experiments with a dizzying array of casks to produce secondary characteristics that accent its house style.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849745", "title": "Peter F. Flaherty", "text": "Peter F. Flaherty\n\nPeter Francis Flaherty (June 25, 1924 – April 18, 2005) was an American politician and attorney. He served as Assistant District Attorney of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania from 1957 to 1964, a member of the Pittsburgh City Council from 1966 to 1970, the 54th Mayor of Pittsburgh from 1970 to 197,United States Deputy Attorney General during the Carter administration from 1977 to 1978, and County Commissioner of Allegheny County from 1984 to 1996.\n\nFlaherty was born and raised on the North Side of Pittsburgh. He served in the United States Air Force from 1943 to 1946 during World War II, reaching the rank of Captain. Flaherty was honorably discharged and used the G.I. Bill to become the first in his family to attend college. He graduated from Carlow University in three years, then graduated \"cum laude\" from Notre Dame Law School and was admitted to the Pennsylvania Bar Association. He then established his own legal practice which included the Pittsburgh Steelers among his clients. In 1971, he earned a Masters in Public Administration from the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs.\n\nIn 1965, Flaherty led the Democratic Party ticket when he was elected to the Pittsburgh City Council. He was elected mayor in the 1969 Pittsburgh mayoral election, defeating Judge Harry A. Kramer in the primary election. In the general election Flaherty beat the Republican, John K. Tabor. Four years later, in the 1973 election, Flaherty was re-elected by winning the Democratic primary, the Republican primary, and the Constitutional party primaries.\n\nDuring his seven years as mayor, Flaherty reduced the payroll by almost one third, balanced the budget each year without a tax increase or any new taxes, reduced the taxes by two mils, eliminated the wage tax for three years, and left office with a substantial budget surplus and taxes lower than when he took office. He increased the amount of street repaving from less than ten miles in 1969 to more than 100 miles in his last year in office. This was accomplished in part by using city personnel and a city owned asphalt plant instead of continuing to contract out the work.\n\nFlaherty was featured in a book on city governing called \"City Money: Political Processes, Fiscal Strain, and Retrenchment\" by Terry N. Clark and Laura Crowley Ferguson, Columbia University Press 1983. Throughout most of his tenure as mayor, Flaherty successfully opposed the Early Action Program, a project which included the development of Skybus. At the end of his tenure, the dispute over this program was resolved by a study performed through the agreement of Flaherty, the county commissioners, representatives of labor and the City Council. The study recommended the abandonment of Skybus and the use, instead, of steel wheel on steel rail technology. This recommendation was adopted by the County transit agency.\n\nAlthough he was criticized in the African-American community for opposing forced busing, his administration was a leader in recruiting minorities and women for top administrative posts and throughout the work force. One of his early appointments was former Duquesne University and Boston Celtics basketball star Chuck Cooper, as Director of Parks and Recreation. He eliminated the Police Tactical Police Force unit which was associated by African Americans with racism during the late 1960s and especially the disturbances that erupted after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. Pittsburgh was the first major city in Pennsylvania to adopt a successful affirmative action program for minorities and women. \n\nFlaherty was a prominent supporter of Jimmy Carter during the 1976 United States presidential election. After Carter was elected, he nominated Flaherty to serve as the 16th United States Deputy Attorney General from April 12, 1977 to 1978. Flaherty served under Attorney General Griffin Bell, and was succeeded in office by Benjamin Civiletti. After Flaherty left the Carter administration, he supported the Ted Kennedy 1980 presidential campaign.\n\nFlaherty was the Democratic Party nominee for United States Senate in 1974, losing to incumbent Republican Senator Richard Schweiker in the general election. Flaherty was also the Democratic Party's nominee for governor of Pennsylvania in 1978, losing in the general election to Republican Richard Thornburgh, who would go on to become United States Attorney General under President Ronald Reagan and President George H.W. Bush. In 1980, he again ran statewide as the Democratic nominee for United States Senate. Flaherty was defeated by Republican Arlen Specter, winning 48% of the vote.\n\nFlaherty was elected to the Allegheny County Board of Commissioners in November 1983. He supported longtime Commissioner and fellow Democrat Tom Foerster's long-term goal of building a world class airport in Allegheny County. This became a reality in 1992 when a first class airport was opened and later named its terminal in Foerster's honor. \n\nHe supported Foerster and served as Foerster's intermediary with the City of Pittsburgh to build a new county jail to replace a facility which was designed by famous architect Henry Hobson Richardson in the 1800s. The team of Foerster as chairman and Pete Flaherty as the second Democrat on the three member Board of County Commissioners served together for three four year terms. Both Foerster and Flaherty were defeated for re-election in 1995.\n\nFlaherty died on April 21, 2005 in Mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania at the age of 80. He is interred in the Roman Catholic Queen of Heaven Cemetery, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849750", "title": "Schnabel car", "text": "Schnabel car\n\nA Schnabel car or Schnabel wagon is a specialized type of railroad freight car. It is designed to carry heavy and oversized loads in such a way that the load makes up part of the car. The load is suspended between the two ends of the cars by lifting arms; the lifting arms are connected to an assembly of span bolsters that distribute the weight of the load and the lifting arm over many wheels.\n\nWhen a Schnabel car is empty, the two lifting arms are connected and the car can usually operate at normal freight train speeds. Some Schnabel cars include hydraulic equipment that will either lift or horizontally shift the load while in transit (at very low speeds) to clear obstructions along the car's route.\nAs of 2012, there were 31 Schnabel cars operating in Europe, 30 in North America, 25 in Asia, and one in Australia.\n\nThe largest Schnabel car in public railroads operation, reporting number WECX 801, was completed in 2012 by Kasgro Railcar for Westinghouse Nuclear and is used in North America primarily to transport reactor containment vessels. It has 36 axles (18 for each half). Each half contains nine trucks which are connected by a complex system of span bolsters. Its tare (unloaded) weight is and has a load limit of for a maximum gross weight of . WECX 801 has the ability to shift its load vertically and up to laterally on either side of the car's center line. When empty, this car measures long; for comparison, a conventional boxcar currently operating on North American railroads has a single two-axle truck at each end of the car, measures long and has a capacity of . The train's speed is limited to when WECX 801 is empty, but only when loaded and requires a crew of six operators in addition to the train's crew.\n\nThe word \"Schnabel\" is from German \"Tragschnabelwagen\", meaning \"carrying-beak-wagon\", because of the usually tapered shape of the lifting arms, resembling a bird's beak.\n\nIn World War II the German \"Wehrmacht\" used Schnabel cars for transporting the \"Karl-Gerät\" heavy-calibre (54 cm and 60 cm calibre) siege mortars. These were self-propelled with a continuous track suspension chassis of substantial length to maneuver into a firing position over a short range, but depended on a pair of purpose-designed Schnabel cars for long-range transport by rail.\n\nThe Schnabel design is covered under US patent #US 4041879 A, filed December 1, 1975, issued to Charles R. Cockrell, with Combustion Engineering, Inc. as assignee, now expired.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849751", "title": "WKRC-TV", "text": "WKRC-TV\n\nWKRC-TV, virtual and VHF digital channel 12, is a dual CBS/CW-affiliated television station licensed to Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, which also operates MyNetworkTV affiliate WSTR-TV (channel 64) under a local marketing agreement (LMA) with owner Deerfield Media. The two stations share studios on Highland Avenue in the Mount Auburn section of Cincinnati, where WKRC-TV's transmitter is also located.\n\nOn cable, the station is available on Charter Spectrum channel 12 in Ohio and channel 3 in Kentucky, and on Cincinnati Bell channel 12.\n\nWKRC-TV first signed on the air on April 4, 1949, originally operating as a CBS affiliate on VHF channel 11; it is Cincinnati's second-oldest television station, but first to receive an FCC License. The station was owned by the Ohio-based Taft family, who were active in both politics and media. The Tafts published \"The Cincinnati Times-Star\", and also owned WKRC radio (550 AM and 101.9 FM, now WKRQ) under their broadcasting subsidiary, Radio Cincinnati. In 1958, the Tafts sold the \"Times-Star\" to the locally based rival E. W. Scripps Company, owner of \"The Cincinnati Post\" and WCPO-AM-FM-TV. The Tafts' broadcasting interests were then reorganized as Taft Broadcasting, with WKRC-AM-FM-TV as the flagship stations. The WKRC stations' call letters were derived from the original owner of WKRC radio, Clarence Ogden of the Kodel Radio Company (\"Ko\" for Clarence O. and \"dell\" for Della his wife). Following the release of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s \"Sixth Report and Order\", WKRC-TV moved to channel 12 on October 12, 1952.\n\nIn 1953, three television stations owned by Taft Broadcasting Company and Cox Enterprises formed the short-lived \"Tri-State Network\" to compete with entertainment programming produced by Crosley Broadcasting Corporation on Crosley television stations in the Cincinnati, Columbus and Dayton broadcast markets. On January 11, 1954, \"The Wendy Barrie Show\" premiered from the studios of WHIO-TV in Dayton, simulcast on Taft Broadcasting's WKRC-TV in Cincinnati and WTVN-TV (now WSYX) in Columbus. Barrie's contract was terminated in October 1954 and replaced by her co-host of nine months, Don Williams.\n\nIn 1961, the station became an ABC affiliate, switching networks with WCPO-TV. This came after that network's founder Leonard Goldenson persuaded Taft president Hulbert Taft Jr., a longtime friend, to switch several of the company's stations to ABC. During the late 1950s, the station was also briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network. WKRC's nickname in the 1960s was \"Tall 12\", a reference to the station's transmitter tower which was the tallest in Cincinnati at the time. Like WCPO-TV, channel 12 used a distinctive jingle ID at the top of the hour in the 1960s. The upbeat, orchestrated \"Channel 12\" jingle was followed by children's show host Glenn Ryle announcing: \"This is WKRC-TV Cincinnati\". Also, during its tenure with ABC, WKRC (through ABC) aired a number of animated shows produced by Hanna-Barbera, which Taft purchased in 1967. In 1975, it began airing movies on late night Saturdays in a program called \"The Past Prime Playhouse\". Hosted live by local personality Bob Shreve, the show would air until 1988.\nIn 1987, Taft was dissolved in a hostile takeover of its board and all of its stations (except WTVN-TV in Columbus and WGHP-TV in High Point, North Carolina) were absorbed into Great American Broadcasting, which became Citicasters in 1993. WKRC was subsequently acquired by Jacor in September 1996 after most of Citicasters' other television stations were sold to New World Communications and Fox. The Jacor deal reunited channel 12 with its AM sister, which had been bought by Jacor in 1993 during Great American Broadcasting's bankruptcy reorganization. Jacor merged with Clear Channel Communications in 1998.\n\nThe station returned to CBS in 1996, reversing the 1961 affiliation swap. WCPO had agreed to affiliate with ABC in September 1995, but WKRC's contract with ABC was not set to expire for another year. In May 1996, WKRC began airing half-hour-long special programs detailing upcoming programming changes at the two stations. On June 3, 1996, WKRC's contract ended, and WKRC rejoined CBS while WCPO rejoined ABC.\n\nAlthough owned by Clear Channel at the time, the station changed its branding to \"Local 12\" in 2003. This was inspired by the \"Local Mandate\", a station brand standardization adopted by Post-Newsweek Stations for its own television stations. \nIn 2006, Clear Channel ranked WKRC as the top CBS affiliate in the United States. On November 16 of that year, the company announced that it would sell its entire television division, including WKRC, after being bought by private equity firms in order to focus on its radio and event properties. On April 20, 2007, Clear Channel entered into an agreement to sell its stations to Providence Equity Partners. Providence Equity teamed up with Sandy DiPasquale to form a new holding company, Newport Television, for the station group. Concurrently, Clear Channel applied to place WKRC and several other stations to the Aloha Station Trust just in case Newport Television failed to close on the group. However, as a result of Newport Television closing on the purchase of WKRC and the other stations on March 14, 2008, Aloha Station Trust and the would-be new owners of Clear Channel opted not to consummate on the acquisition of the station. As a result, Newport Television became WKRC's fourth owner in just over 20 years. As a result of the sale, the Citicasters name disappeared from WKRC's license, dissolving channel 12's last link to Taft Broadcasting; the Citicasters name is still alive as a holding company within the corporate structure of Clear Channel's successor, iHeartMedia.\n\nOn June 18, 2008, Newport announced that it was eliminating 7.5% of the jobs at its 56 stations, attributed the layoffs to a weak economy. As a result, WKRC fired 18 staff members. On July 19, 2012, Newport Television reached deals to sell 22 of its 27 stations to three station groups – Nexstar Broadcasting Group, Sinclair Broadcast Group and Cox Media Group. WKRC-TV was among the six sold to Sinclair. WSTR-TV (channel 64) was transferred to Deerfield Media (who also received San Antonio's CW affiliate KMYS in the same deal) because the Cincinnati market, despite being the 35th-largest market, has only five full-power commercial stations, which are not enough to legally permit a duopoly. However, Sinclair retained control of WSTR through a shared services agreement. The deal also reunited WKRC-TV with WSYX (the former WTVN-TV), another station formerly owned by Taft. The sale was completed on December 3.\n\nOn January 8, 2016, Sinclair announced that American Sports Network would launch as a dedicated, digital multicast network under the American Sports Network name with 10 stations including WKRC on January 11, 2016.\n\nWKRC-DT2, branded on-air as The CW Cincinnati, is the CW-affiliated second digital subchannel of WKRC-TV, broadcasting in high definition on virtual and VHF digital channel 12.2. On cable, it is available in standard definition on Spectrum channels 20 in Ohio, 25 in Kentucky, and 989 in both states, and on Cincinnati Bell channel 17. A high definition feed is carried on Spectrum digital channel 1024 in Ohio and channel 901 in Kentucky, and on Cincinnati Bell channel 517.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. WKRC signed a deal to affiliate with the new network on a new second digital subchannel resulting in UPN affiliate WBQC-CA (channel 25) becoming an independent station. Meanwhile, WB affiliate WSTR-TV joined another new network, News Corporation-owned MyNetworkTV (now owned by 21st Century Fox) which launched on September 5. With the affiliation, WKRC-DT2 became the largest subchannel-only CW affiliate by market size, and was one of the few such stations located in the top 100 markets (most CW-affiliated stations that carry the network via a subchannel are located in the 110 smallest U.S. television markets and carry The CW Plus, an automated feed featuring a pre-packaged schedule of syndicated programs outside CW programming hours; the few that are located among the top 100—such as WTVG-DT2 in Toledo—maintain an independently programmed schedule as their primary channel counterparts do). This distinction ended on May 31, 2017, when San Diego's CBS affiliate, KFMB-TV, affiliated its DT2 subchannel with The CW (which had previously been carried on the primary feed of Tijuana, Mexico-based XETV).\n\nCincinnati cable viewers were concerned that WKRC-DT2 would face the same problems as WBQC. For years, Time Warner Cable had refused to carry that station full-time, eventually airing its prime time programming on a low-profile channel. However, Time Warner Cable was a division of Time Warner at the time (who would be half-owner of The CW), so it was in the company's best interest to air WKRC-DT2 over its systems. By late in the day on September 17, Time Warner Cable agreed to carry the new station only hours before the network's launch on September 18. WKRC-DT2 launched on Time Warner channel 2 in prime time only to start out with and 24 hours a day on digital cable channel 913, before earning a full-time broadcast basic placement on channel 20 as of October 18, displacing WBQC and a commercial access channel. The station also debuted on Insight Communications and DirecTV under WBQC's former channel slots. As a result, the channel can be viewed by 66% of the local population.\n\nWhile now branded as simply \"The CW Cincinnati,\" the subchannel originally branded as \"The CinCW,\" a portmanteau with \"Cincy\", a common nickname for the city. It currently airs the entire CW schedule in-pattern with films and syndicated programming (and sometimes second runs of WKRC's programming) airing outside network hours along with occasional coverage of high school sports and/or telecasts from FC Cincinnati on weekends. In the event of breaking news (either from WKRC or CBS News) or sports coverage, WKRC-DT2 airs CBS programming when needed. Repeats of some shows formerly aired by WKRC, along with the second half of CBS' \"Face the Nation\", can also be seen. Through The CW, it also carried the daily self-titled talk show of local WLW radio personality Bill Cunningham until that show ended in 2016.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWKRC-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 12, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 31 to VHF channel 12.\n\nDuring its first few years as a CBS affiliate, WKRC-TV ran the entire schedule except for several hours of the CBS Saturday morning cartoon lineup which would soon be reduced to only a few hours anyway. Once that reduction was made, WKRC-TV was then running the entire CBS schedule with an occasional exception. Syndicated programs currently broadcast on WKRC-TV include \"Dr. Phil\", \"Inside Edition\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", and \"Comics Unleashed\". On weekends, during the overnight hours, it also airs re-runs of such CBS shows as \"\", and \"Madam Secretary\", all of which air, or have aired, first-run on the station.\n\nIn 1998, the station became the primary home station for most Cincinnati Bengals games (when CBS acquired the AFC broadcast rights that year, displacing longtime incumbent WLWT in that role).\n\nOver the years, as an ABC affiliate, WKRC-TV preempted moderate amounts of weekday programming and the Sunday morning cartoon reruns from ABC; when an ABC game show hosted by WKRC-TV personality Nick Clooney, \"The Money Maze\", aired from December 1974 to June 1975, WKRC opted to delay that program from the national scheduled time of 4 p.m. to 10:30 a.m. the following day, so it would be presented in tandem with their local talk program, \"The Nick Clooney Show\", at 11 a.m. Other shows delayed by WKRC included Friday night sitcoms \"Here Come the Brides\" (delayed to nine days after their original ABC airing) and \"The Brady Bunch\" (delayed to the following afternoon). It also briefly ran instrumental music over the closing credits of primetime network shows in lieu of program promos during the 1973-74 season. At one point during the 1987-88 season, WKRC briefly preempted the 8:30 p.m. ABC primetime slot (occupied by such shows as \"I Married Dora\", \"Mr. Belvedere\" and part of the first season of \"Full House\") in favor of the syndicated sitcom \"Small Wonder\". The 9:30 p.m. time slot was similarly preempted in favor of the short-lived Suzanne Somers vehicle \"She's the Sheriff\".\n\nWhen ABC offered late night programming from 11:30 p.m. to about 2 a.m., WKRC, as with several other ABC affiliates, chose not to air it. However, it aired \"Nightline\" once that show began in 1979 as a program on the Iran hostage crisis. Occasionally, WKRC preempted a lower-rated primetime program or movie from ABC to air either a stronger movie or a locally based special. Most of the programs not shown on WKRC were widely preempted by many affiliates. Also, most every program not shown on WKRC-TV was aired on the ABC station in nearby Dayton, WKEF until 1980 and WDTN after 1980. WKEF provided grade B coverage to most of the market, while WDTN provided city-grade coverage to nearly the entire market. Locally, WKRC aired news, talk shows, movies, and a few off-network sitcoms at some points. Beginning in 1992, WKRC-TV began preempting portions of ABC's Saturday morning cartoons in favor of a local Saturday morning newscast. For a while, WKRC-TV was also one of the very few ABC affiliates that did not clear \"This Week with David Brinkley\", choosing to air religious programs instead.\n\nRegardless of its network, at least one program airing on both, \"The Edge of Night\", always had shabby treatment in Cincinnati, which was ironic because the series' producer Procter & Gamble was headquartered there, and \"Edge\"s fictional locale of Monticello was loosely based on the city. WKRC did not clear that program as late as 1958, but by 1960–1961 (its last initial season as a CBS affiliate) it telecast the program at 10 a.m. When ABC picked the program up in 1975, it originally carried the ABC run at 11 a.m. By fall 1976 the show was airing on WKRC at 10:30 a.m., and by May 1981 it was on at 9 a.m. WKRC had an unusual broadcast of the 90-minute ABC premiere. It aired the first hour from 3 to 4 p.m. on December 1. The final 30 minutes was telecast December 2 at 11 a.m., where all subsequent episodes aired on a one-day delay.\n\nWKRC currently broadcasts 41½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with seven hours each weekday, four hours on Saturdays and 2½ hours on Sundays); it also produces an additional 13½ hours of newscasts weekly (with 2½ hours each weekday and a half-hour each on Saturdays and Sundays) for WSTR. WKRC's newscasts and reports were formerly seen on the Ohio News Network until the regional cable news channel shut down on August 31, 2012. During weather segments, it uses regional weather radar data in a system called \"Precision Doppler 12 Network.\"\n\nFor most of its history, WKRC has been a solid runner-up to WCPO in the local newscast ratings. However, in the past decade or so, WKRC and WCPO have taken turns in first and second place. WKRC usually wins on weekday mornings and at 11 p.m., while WCPO leads in the 5 to 7 p.m. block. However, since the May 2010 Nielsen ratings period, WKRC has dominated its competition in all newscast timeslots, with WCPO slipping to second. This dominance in the Cincinnati local news race continued as of the May 2012 sweeps period. At one point, all three of Cincinnati's \"Big Three\" network affiliates were locally owned. WLWT began falling behind in the ratings after becoming the first of the three to be sold to outside interests. WCPO is now the only one of the three to remain under locally based ownership.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1992, its news division was branded \"Eyewitness 12 News\". (The \"Eyewitness News\" moniker would be reused by WLWT in 1998.) Afterward, the station was usually announced as \"12 News\". With the arrival of chief meteorologist Tim Hedrick in 1988, WKRC began using the top of the Chiquita Center as its Weather beacon.\n\nIn 1994, WKRC refreshed its newscasts with the slogan \"A New Generation of News\", which referred to anchors Kit Andrews and Rob Braun, along with new graphics, a green screen set, and music originally composed by Rick Krizman for KRON-TV in San Francisco. WKRC made extensive use of \"Texta\", a graphics package that included a persistent on-screen banner with the current story's headline. Seasonal school closing information and eventually a news ticker appeared below the Texta headline. That October, WKRC debuted 11 minutes of \"Non-Stop News\" on its 11 p.m. newscast, reviving a feature the station attempted in 1989. In 1996, the station debuted a half-hour 4 p.m. newscast on weekday afternoons that remains the Cincinnati area's earliest afternoon newscast.\n\nFrom August 22, 2001, to January 2005, WKRC aired its weekday \"Good Morning Cincinnati\" broadcast live from a $500,000 remote studio at the Greater Cincinnati Convention and Visitors Bureau on the ground floor of Fifth Third Bank's downtown headquarters, with the Tyler Davidson Fountain as the backdrop. Despite WKRC's initial hopes for a \"Today\"-like atmosphere, the show failed to attract a regular crowd on Fountain Square. From March 2004 to 2008, WKRC aired \"Nuestro Rincón\" (\"Our Corner\"), a twice-weekly Spanish-language news program hosted by Sasha Rionda. It was the only television program in the market airing in a language other than English.\n\nOn April 26, 2006, WKRC entered into a news share agreement with WSTR to produce a nightly primetime newscast at 10 p.m., which began airing on August 21. This resulted, once MyNetworkTV began, in a CBS affiliate's newscast being carried on a station affiliated with a Fox sister network. On January 7, 2008, WKRC began simulcasting \"Good Morning Cincinnati\" on WKRC-DT2; it had been aired on the main channel from 5 to 8 am, but the third hour was dropped when CBS reclaimed the 7 a.m. hour for \"The Early Show\", after the network required all of its affiliates to air the show (which was replaced by \"CBS This Morning\" in 2012) in its entirety after receiving a makeover hoping to better compete against its rivals, NBC's \"Today\" and ABC's \"Good Morning America\". The 7–8 a.m. hour of \"Good Morning Cincinnati\" can now be only seen on WKRC-DT2. WKRC announced its intent to move the primetime newscast on WSTR to WKRC-DT2 in August 2008; on August 4, 2008, it began a brief simulcast of the program on WKRC-DT2, with it eventually being dropped from WSTR on August 22. The program then became known as \"CW News at 10\".\nNewport Television released a statement in October 2008 stating that WKRC would eventually begin broadcasting its newscasts in 1080i high definition. The company used channel 12 as a pilot station before investing in HD equipment for its other television stations. On October 30, it debuted a new set on its \"First at 4\" broadcast in preparation for the HD debut. After nearly a year of delay, the station launched its high definition newscasts along with a revised logo and new graphics on September 27, 2009 during its 11 p.m. newscast; WKRC became the third station in the Cincinnati market (after WCPO and WXIX-TV, channel 19) and the second in the Newport group (after WOAI-TV) to make the upgrade. WKRC currently use JVC ProHD 250 Series cameras in its studios. The newscasts on The CW Cincinnati were not initially included in the upgrade, until it upgraded to HD at some point in 2013. On July 7, 2013, WKRC launched Sunday morning newscasts, airing in two blocks: one hour at 8:00 a.m. and an additional half-hour at 11:30 a.m. On January 6, 2014, the 10 p.m. newscast was moved back to WSTR, where it is called the \"Local 12 News at 10 on STAR 64\". On February 3, 2014, the 7 a.m. newscasts would follow suit to WSTR.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849753", "title": "Dominique Monami", "text": "Dominique Monami\n\nDominique Monami (born 31 May 1973) is a Belgian former professional tennis player. She is her country's first ever top 10 tennis professional.\n\nMonami was born in Verviers. In 1995, she married her coach Bart Van Roost, with whom she has a daughter, and played under the name Dominique Van Roost until their divorce in 2003.\n\nMonami won her first WTA tournament in 1996 in Cardiff (Welsh Open). Before this win, she had been on the ITF circuit where she won seven ITF events, five of which in 1990. In 1997, she reached the quarterfinals of the Australian Open. The following year, Van Roost became the first ever Belgian tennis player (male or female) to reach the top 10 in WTA rankings.\n\nMonami won a total of four WTA singles titles and reached a career-high singles ranking of world No. 9 in October 1998. In total, she participated in 36 Grand Slam tournaments during her professional career.\n\nAnother achievement for Van Roost came during the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney where she won the bronze medal in doubles, partnering Els Callens. Also in doubles, she reached the quarterfinals of the Australian Open in 1999 and 2000, and the semifinals of the 2000 US Open.\n\nIn November 2000, Monami ended her professional tennis career when she became pregnant by Bart van Roost, whom she divorced later in 2003. She became embroiled in political controversy in Belgium because of her name change. She had been criticized in the country for abandoning her Walloon surname and adopting that of her Flemish husband. After her divorce, she reverted to her original last name. Subsequently, in 2006, she married Erik Vink, a manager in Sony BMG.\n\nAfter retiring from playing, Monami became involved in Belgian tennis in various capacities, including as a tournament director (Brussels Open) and as the Belgian Fed Cup captain. She also wrote a book titled \"Een Kwestie van Karakter (Tout est dans le caractere)\". Monami was awarded Belgian Sports Personality of the Year in 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849754", "title": "Anne Royall", "text": "Anne Royall\n\nAnne Royall (June 11, 1769 – October 1, 1854) was a travel writer, newspaper editor, and, by some accounts, the first professional woman journalist in the United States.\n\nShe was born Anne Newport in Baltimore, Maryland. Anne grew up in the western frontier of Pennsylvania before her impoverished and fatherless family migrated south to the mountains of western Virginia. There, at 16, she and her widowed mother were employed as servants in the household of William Royall, a wealthy American Revolution major, freemason and deist who lived at Sweet Springs in Monroe County (now in West Virginia). Royall, a learned gentleman farmer twenty years Anne's senior, took an interest in her and arranged for her education, introducing her to the works of Shakespeare and Voltaire, and allowing her to make free use of his extensive library.\n\nAnne and William Royall were wed in 1797. The couple lived comfortably together for fifteen years until his death in 1812. His death touched off litigation between Anne and Royall's relatives, who claimed that they were never legally married and that his will leaving her most of his property was a forgery. After seven years, the will was nullified and she was left virtually penniless.\n\nAnne spent the next four years traveling around Alabama, writing letters to a friend about the evolution of the young state that were eventually turned into a manuscript published as \"Letters from Alabama\". She also penned a novel called \"The Tennessean\" before setting off for Washington D.C.\n\nShe became an “itinerant storyteller,” according to biographer Jeff Biggers, traveling first to the new state of Alabama, where she wrote the initial of her series of “Black Books.” The popular volumes were “informative but sardonic portraits of the elite and their denizens from Mississippi to Maine.” In an expanding nation, Royall’s incisive descriptions of American life and individual Americans from many walks of life were popular reading and a sharp contrast to the sentimental literature penned by other female writers.\n\nShe arrived in Washington in 1824 to petition for a federal pension as the widow of a veteran; under the pension law at the time, widows had to plead their cases before Congress. She remained unsatisfied until Congress passed a new pension law in 1848. Even then, her husband's family claimed most of her pension money.\n\nWhile in Washington attempting to secure a pension, Anne caught President John Quincy Adams during one of his usual early morning naked swims in the Potomac River. It is commonly recounted, but apocryphal, that she gathered the president's clothes and sat on them until he answered her questions, earning her the first presidential interview ever granted to a woman.\n\nAdams afterward supported Anne's petition for a pension. He also invited her to visit his wife, Louisa Adams, at their home in Washington, which she did. Mrs. Adams gave her a white shawl when she journeyed north to obtain proof of her husband's military service.\n\nAfterward Anne toured New England, Pennsylvania, New York and Massachusetts, all the while taking copious notes and using her Masonic connections to help fund her travels.\n\nIn Boston, she stopped in on former President John Adams to give him an update on his son and daughter-in-law. Then, in 1826, at 57, she published her notes in a book titled \"Sketches of History, Life and Manners in the United States\". Her previous manuscript \"The Tennessean\" would follow a year later.\n\nThe caustic observations in her books and public stances on issues caused a stir and earned her some powerful enemies. She was derided as an eccentric scold, a virago, and (in the words of one newspaper editor) \"a literary wild-cat from the backwoods.\" In 1829, Anne Royall returned to Washington, D.C. and began living on Capitol Hill, near a fire house. The firehouse, which had been built with federal money, had been allowing a small Presbyterian congregation to use its facilities for their services. Royall, who had long made Presbyterians a particular object of scorn in her writing, objected to their using the building as a blurring of the lines between church and state. She also claimed that some of the congregation's children began throwing stones at her windows. One member of the congregation began praying silently beneath her window and others visited her in an attempt to convert her, she claimed. Royall responded to their taunts with cursing and was arrested. She was tried and convicted of being a \"public nuisance, a common brawler and a common scold.\" Although a ducking stool had been constructed nearby, the court ruled that the traditional common law punishment of ducking for a scold was obsolete, and she was instead fined $10. Two reporters from Washington's newspaper, \"The National Intelligencer\", paid the fine. Embarrassed by the incident, Royall left Washington to continue traveling.\n\nBack in Washington in 1831, she published a newspaper from her home with the help of a friend, Sally Stack. The paper, \"Paul Pry\", exposed political corruption and fraud. Sold as single issues, it contained her editorials, letters to the editor and her responses, and advertisements. It was published until 1836, when it was succeeded by \"The Huntress\". Royall hired orphans to set the type and faced constant financial woes, which were exacerbated when postmasters refused to deliver her issues to subscribers, until her death at 85 in 1854, bringing an end to her 30-year news career.\n\nShe is buried in the Congressional Cemetery.\n\n\"\" by Jeff Biggers, 2017, St. Martin's Press/Thomas Dunne Books.\n\n\"A Notorious Woman: Anne Royall in Jacksonian America\" by Elizabeth J. Clapp, 2016, University of Virginia Press\n\n"}
{"id": "1849758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849758", "title": "Mickie James", "text": "Mickie James\n\nMickie Laree James-Aldis (born August 31, 1979) is an American professional wrestler and country singer. she is a commentator for WWE's brand Main Event \n\nJames began her wrestling career in 1999 as a valet on the independent circuit, where she was known under the name Alexis Laree. She trained in several camps to improve her wrestling abilities before working for NWA: Total Nonstop Action (NWA:TNA, later Total Nonstop Action Wrestling) in June 2002, where she gained national attention. After only a few appearances, she joined a stable called The Gathering and was written into storylines with the group. She is the only woman to be involved in the promotion's Clockwork Orange House of Fun matches.\n\nJames made her World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) main roster debut in October 2005 and was placed in a storyline with Trish Stratus, in which James' gimmick was that of Stratus' biggest fan turned obsessed stalker, an angle which ran over eight months. She received a push, and she won her first WWE Women's Championship at WrestleMania 22, a title she has held a total of five times. James also won her first Divas Championship at Night of Champions in 2009 to become the second of five Divas to hold both the Women's and Divas titles. She was released from the company on April 22, 2010, after which she returned to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA).\n\nIn TNA, James won the TNA Knockouts Championship three times and the 2013 TNA World Cup with Team USA. She left TNA in September 2013. Between WWE and TNA, James is a nine-time champion. and is also the only female to hold the WWE Women's, WWE Divas, and TNA Knockouts Championships in wrestling history. \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" (PWI) ranked James as the number one female wrestler in 2009, and she was also voted Woman of the Year twice, first in 2009 and again in 2011 by readers of PWI.\n\nJames was born at Richmond Memorial Hospital in Richmond, Virginia, the daughter of Stuart James, a retired wastewater-treatment worker, landscaper, and VAIL League Division 3 Championship coach and Sandra Knuckles, a teacher and real-estate agent. Her parents divorced while she was young. She has a sister, a half-sister, a half-brother, and three stepbrothers. She grew up in Montpelier, Virginia and graduated from Patrick Henry High School in 1997. While growing up, she spent a lot of time on her grandmother's horse farm, and developed a keen interest in equestrian sports. She played violin for five years. James is part Native American of the Powhatan tribe.\n\nA fan of professional wrestling from an early age, James attended a professional wrestling school in the Washington, D.C. area at the suggestion of a friend. She made her professional debut on the independent circuit in 1999, as a valet for KYDA Pro Wrestling under the ring name Alexis Laree, a name created as the result of a combination of her stage name from when she was a dancer and her middle name. Laree went on to manage several male wrestlers, including managing Tommy Dreamer to win the KYDA Pro Heavyweight Championship. In March, she wrestled in her first match, an intergender tag team match with Jake Damian against American Mike Brown and Candie. She trained to improve her wrestling abilities by attending training camps such as the Funking Conservatory, a workshop run by Dory Funk Jr., and an Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) dojo. She also started competing for Maryland Championship Wrestling (MCW), where she trained at camps run by Ricky Morton and Bobby Eaton. Beginning in 2002, she also made appearances for Ring of Honor.\n\nDue to the low salary of the independent shows, James supplemented her income by working as a waitress at an Olive Garden restaurant in the early 2000s before gaining fame and being subsequently signed by World Wrestling Entertainment in 2003.\n\nWhile working in Ring of Honor for a year, James also debuted as Alexis Laree in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) on the company's first ever weekly pay-per-view, introduced as a participant in the lingerie battle royal, which occurred the following week. She was not prominently featured until March 26, 2003, when she teamed with Amazing Red as part of his feud against the X Division Champion Kid Kash and Trinity. Laree competed in her first singles match with the promotion on April 2, 2003 in a losing effort against Trinity. Weeks later, she became the first member of The Gathering, a stable led by Raven in his feud against NWA World Heavyweight Champion Jeff Jarrett. On April 16, Laree became the first (and thus far, only) woman to compete in a Clockwork Orange House of Fun match, after the Gathering challenged and defeated Jarrett. She continued to wrestle with the stable while they feuded with The Disciples of the New Church, taking part in an angle with Father James Mitchell burning her with a fireball and wrestling in another Clockwork Orange House of Fun match before leaving the company.\n\nAfter two years of sending tapes and making phone calls as well as wrestling a tryout dark match with Dawn Marie, James was signed to a developmental contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), who sent her to train at Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), their then-developmental territory, in August 2003. Still using the ring name Alexis Laree, she began making television appearances for OVW on January 29, 2004 and competed in several tag team matches throughout the year. She also won a Halloween costume contest on October 30, and defeated Jillian Hall in a $1,000 match on November 12.\n\nOn May 17, 2005, Laree was placed into a tournament for the OVW Television Championship. She defeated Mike Mondo in the first round, only to lose to Blaster Lashley in the next round. She began a feud with Beth Phoenix on July 20 after Phoenix interrupted Laree during an interview, setting up a match on July 29, which Laree lost. Their angle continued into September, with Shelly Martinez being added to the storyline to side with Phoenix against Laree. On October 12, she appeared in OVW under her real name, and finished the year on the losing end of matches against Martinez and Jillian Hall.\n\nUnder her real name, she debuted in WWE on the October 10, 2005 episode of \"Raw\" as a face under the gimmick of WWE Women's Champion Trish Stratus' biggest fan. The angle had the two Divas competing together in tag team matches, with James' character becoming increasingly obsessed with Stratus. The storyline included a Halloween costume contest, in which James was dressed like Stratus and helped Stratus retain the Women's Championship in a Fulfill Your Fantasy battle royal at Taboo Tuesday by eliminating herself and Victoria at the same time. James even began utilizing Stratus' signature finishing moves as her own during matches. James later became the number one contender for the WWE Women's Championship on December 12, by defeating Victoria in a match to determine who would face Stratus at New Year's Revolution. Subsequently, the storyline between Mickie and Stratus developed into a lesbian angle, after James kissed Stratus under a sprig of mistletoe. In the championship match at the pay-per-view, James lost to Stratus.\n\nDespite the defeat, James continued to be enamored of Stratus, which made Stratus uncomfortable. On March 6, 2006, the storyline had Stratus confronting James, telling her that they needed time apart from each other. Through the early part of 2006, Mickie would attack Ashley Massaro several times due to Massaro calling her \"crazy\". At the Royal Rumble pay-per-view, James defeated Massaro with then-Women's Champion, Trish Stratus, as the special guest referee. James would also confess her love for Stratus at the event. Massaro got revenge one week later on \"Raw\".\n\nJames and Stratus teamed together at the March 18, 2006 \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXXII\" to defeat Candice Michelle and Victoria. After the match, James agreed to honor Stratus' wishes and attempted to kiss her. After Stratus pushed her away, James attacked Stratus and vowed to destroy her, becoming a villain in the process for the first time in her WWE career. The feud between James and Stratus culminated in a Women's Championship match at WrestleMania 22, which James won, to earn her first Women's Championship in what was looked at as one of the best female matches ever produced at WrestleMania. Her angle with Stratus continued into Backlash during a rematch, after Stratus legitimately dislocated her shoulder when James threw her out of the ring. The feud would come to an end on the June 26 episode of \"Raw\", when Mickie defeated Stratus in a Women's Championship match.\n\nJames dropped the WWE Women's Championship on August 14 to Lita, after Lita hit James with the title belt. After the Women's Championship was vacated due to the retirement of Trish Stratus, James entered a tournament to determine the new champion. She defeated Victoria and Melina en route to the finals at Cyber Sunday, where she lost to Lita. James transitioned into a face after she and Lita wrestled in a series of matches in which Lita chose stipulations to hinder Mickie's wrestling ability. The feud between James and Lita ended at Survivor Series, where James defeated Lita, in the latter's retirement match, to win her second Women's Championship.\nJames then began an angle with Melina on January 29, 2007, when Melina became the number one contender for the Women's Championship. Following a successful title defense on February 5, James teamed with Super Crazy in a mixed tag team match against Melina and Johnny Nitro. After Melina pinned James for the victory, she challenged her to a rematch for the title. James would subsequently lose the Women's Championship to Melina on February 19 and, in continuation of their storyline feud, failed to regain the title during the first women's Falls Count Anywhere match in WWE history. During the finish of the match, James fell from the top turnbuckle and landed on her neck, which resulted in a rushed finish. James, however, was not seriously injured in the incident.\n\nThe scripted feud between James and Melina was rekindled during her photo op on \"Raw\". At a house show in Paris, France on April 24, James won her third Women's Championship during a triple threat match that also involved Victoria. Since Mickie pinned Victoria and not Melina, an immediate rematch was scheduled, in which James dropped the title back to Melina, giving her the shortest Women's Championship reign in WWE history. James later received a rematch for the title at Backlash, but was unsuccessful. After Backlash, James would only make sporadic appearances on television, wrestling occasionally in tag-matches and rarely in singles competition. On the November 26 episode of \"Raw\", James defeated Melina in a number one contender's match for Beth Phoenix's Women's Championship, setting up a title match between the two at Armageddon, in which Phoenix retained the title.\n\nOn the April 14, 2008 episode of \"Raw\", held in London, England, James defeated Beth Phoenix to win her fourth Women's Championship. At Judgment Day, James successfully defended her title against Melina and Beth Phoenix in a triple-threat match. Mickie re-entered the feud against Phoenix in mid-2008, where she and Kofi Kingston teamed up against Phoenix and Santino Marella at SummerSlam in a Winner Takes All tag team match for both the Women's and Intercontinental Championships, in which Mickie and Kingston lost their titles to Phoenix and Marella. After James lost the championship, she had two rematches for the title, but was unsuccessful in regaining it. At Survivor Series in November, James was part of the victorious Raw Diva team which defeated the SmackDown Divas in a five-on-five elimination match; she eliminated Michelle McCool, before being eliminated by Maryse. The following month at Armageddon, James teamed with Maria, Michelle McCool and Kelly Kelly in a winning effort against Jillian Hall, Maryse, Victoria and Natalya.\n\nFollowing an appearance in the 25-Diva battle royal at WrestleMania XXV, James began feuding with the WWE Divas Champion Maryse heading into Night of Champions on July 26. At the event, James defeated Maryse to win her first Divas Championship, becoming only the second Diva in history to have held both the Women's and Divas titles. Throughout the Summer, Mickie successfully defended the title against Gail Kim and Beth Phoenix on episodes of \"Raw\", and against Alicia Fox at the Hell in a Cell pay-per-view on October 4. Two weeks later on \"Raw\", James lost the title to Jillian Hall after an approximate three month title reign. After the show, James was traded to the \"SmackDown\" brand for the first time in her career, due to a Diva trade made by \"Raw\" guest host Nancy O'Dell.\n\nJames made her debut with the brand on the October 23 episode of \"SmackDown\", defeating Layla. On the October 30 episode of \"SmackDown\", a controversial angle began that saw WWE Women's Champion Michelle McCool and Layla, collectively known as LayCool, bully James. On the November 20 episode of \"SmackDown\", after James defeated Layla, McCool gave James the nickname \"Piggy James\", that sent James to tears, resulting in a five-on-five Survivor Series match at the November pay-per-view Survivor Series, where James' team prevailed over McCool's team, with James and Melina as the sole survivors. On the December 4 episode of \"SmackDown\", James became the number one contender for McCool's Women's Championship by defeating Beth Phoenix and Natalya in a triple threat match. The following week, James challenged McCool for the championship at , but was unsuccessful after interference from Layla. The storyline feud continued into the Royal Rumble on January 31, 2010 where James finally defeated McCool in 20 seconds to become a five-time Women's Champion, the second most reigns with the old WWE Women's Championship after Trish Stratus, who has had 7 reigns. Over the following couple of weeks, \"SmackDown\" consultant Vickie Guerrero was introduced into the rivalry, choosing to side with LayCool over James. On the February 26 episode of \"SmackDown\", McCool used her rematch clause to face James for the Women's Championship, with Guerrero acting as special guest referee. After Guerrero slapped James, McCool pinned her to regain the title.\n\nOn March, James was diagnosed with a staph infection on her right knee, putting her out of action for three weeks. She returned on the March 22 episode of \"Raw\", where alongside Kelly Kelly, she accompanied Eve Torres, Beth Phoenix, and Gail Kim in their losing effort against McCool, Maryse and Layla, who had Vickie Guerrero and Alicia Fox in their corner. This set up a 10-Diva tag team match at WrestleMania XXVI, in which James made an unsuccessful in-ring return after Vickie pinned Kelly. James made her last appearance on \"Raw\" during a rematch, where her team was victorious. James' final match in WWE aired on the April 23 episode of \"SmackDown\" where she teamed with former long-time rival Beth Phoenix against LayCool in a losing effort when she was pinned by Layla. James was released from WWE one day earlier on April 22, having pre-taped her \"SmackDown\" match. According to James, WWE explained the decision as due to desiring to \"move in a new direction with their women's division\".\n\nIn November 2013, James served as guest trainer at the WWE Performance Center in Orlando, Florida for a week, training NXT's female wrestlers. James also attended that week's NXT live event in Tampa, Florida.\n\nJames made her return to the independent circuit in April 2010, as part of World Wrestling Council (WWC), teaming with Carlito to defeat the team of ODB and Christopher Daniels. James won the bout after pinning Daniels. On July 11, as part of their Anniversary weekend, she defeated ODB in a singles match. On the last day of that month, James returned to one of her early promotions, Maryland Championship Wrestling (MCW), to wrestle Mia Yim in a winning effort. The following month, she contested for the Women Superstars Uncensored (WSU) Championship against Mercedes Martinez, but she was unsuccessful. She also returned to Dory Funk's promotion, recording a tag team match for \"!Bang! TV\". James also accompanied Dory Funk Jr. during his match, and sung \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" during \"!Bang! TV's\" tribute to the troops. On September 18, James served as a special guest referee for a three-way match between ODB, Persephone and Kristin Flake for the SCWA Ladie's Title during Southern California Wrestling Association's (SCWA) \"'CAGED\" event in Wentworth, North Carolina, where all matches took place in a cage.\n\nIn early 2011, James began appearing for Covey Promotions. At \"All or Nothing 5\" on April 30, James defeated Hannah Blossom to become the first Covey Pro Women's Champion. During her time with TNA, James made several appearances for independent wrestling promotions such as Pro Championship Wrestling, Legends of the Ring, Northeast Wrestling and National Wrestling Superstars.\nOn November 11, 2011, James lost the Covey Pro Women's Championship to the debuting Jessie Belle Smothers.\n\nJames made her debut for Pro Wrestling Elite (PWE) in Ayr, Scotland on September 15, 2012, at \"History Is Born\", where she wrestled Kay Lee Ray to a no contest. After the match, James teamed up with Ray in a winning effort against Carmel and Nikki Storm. The following night, James competed against Carmel in a winning effort. James returned to Pro Wrestling Elite at their two-year anniversary event \"Elite Bro\" on July 20, 2013, in a winning effort against Nikki Storm. On September 21, James made an appearance at the \"Wrestling Spectacular 2\" all-female event in Edison, New Jersey, alongside many former WWE and TNA female wrestlers, such as Angelina Love, Katarina Waters, Rosita and Brooke Adams. James and Love fought in the main event, with Candice Michelle as the special guest referee, where Love pinned James after interference from Velvet Sky. James made appearances for Big Time Wrestling in August 2013, doing so as a villainess wrestling Reby Sky several times in different dates and locations, winning in all bouts against Sky. On October 12, Mickie again appeared for the promotion, beating Quebec's Midianne in Bristol, Connecticut. On February 8, 2014, James returned to Maryland Championship Wrestling for the \"Anniversary 2014\" event in Joppa, Maryland to face Angelina Love, promoted as \"Battle of the Bombshells\". Although originally promoted as a singles match, interference by MCW's Renee Michelles' and Jessie Kayes' rivalry occurred during the match, resulting in the match being turned into a tag team match with Mickie and Michelle facing Angelina and Kayes, which James and Michelle won.\n\nOn April 25, 2014, at the Berkeley Springs High School theater in West Virginia, James headlined the Covey Promotion 3rd Annual Hall Of Fame Induction Ceremony, as she was inducted into the Covey Pro Hall Of Hame Class of 2014. The next day, during the \"All or Nothing 8!\" event which was aired on May 17 as the 154th episode of Covey Pro TV, James was interrupted during an interview by Amber Rodriguez, who mocked James on her legitimate pregnancy and gave her a pie as a tease, and in return, James shoved the pie in Amber's face. Jessie Belle Smothers came to the rescue and battled Rodriguez as James was escorted out by security. Two months after giving birth to her child, James returned to in-ring competition at \"Queens Of Combat 3\" on November 30, where she defeated Tessa Blanchard after turning heel during the match and resorting to villainous tactics. On May 16, James debuted for First State Championship Wrestling (1CW) unsuccessfully challenging Kacee Carlisle for the 1CW Women's Championship after getting herself disqualified.\n\nOn June 19, 2015, at Maryland Championship Wrestling's \"Ladies Night\" event, James defeated Amber Rodriguez (with Lisa Marie Varon as the special guest referee and Melina as the enforcer) to win the MCW Women's Championship, despite being attacked by the villainous Melina during the match. On November 13, Kimber Lee defeated James to win the MCW Women's Championship after interference from Amber Rodriguez. The following night, James gained a measure of revenge by defeating Rodriguez in a Loser Leaves MCW match, causing Rodriguez to leave the company. On February 2, 2016, James made an appearance for Chikara in a losing effort against Grand Champion Princess Kimber Lee. On April 1, 2016, James returned to Queens of Combat and defeated LuFisto at \"Queens of Combat 10\".\n\nOn September 2, 2016, James made her debut for Chikara, when she entered the 2016 King of Trios tournament as part of Team Original Divas Revolution, alongside Jazz and Victoria. They defeated Team Shimmer (Candice LeRae, Crazy Mary Dobson and Solo Darling) in their first round match. The following day, Team Original Divas Revolution was eliminated from the tournament by The Warriors Three (Oleg the Usurper, Princess KimberLee and ThunderFrog).\n\nOn September 22, 2010, it was reported that James had signed a contract with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). James returned to the promotion on October 7's \"Before The Glory\" special episode of \"Impact!\", when she was introduced as the special guest referee for the TNA Knockouts Championship match between Angelina Love, Velvet Sky, Madison Rayne and Tara at Bound for Glory. At the pay-per-view, James counted the pinfall which made Tara the new Knockouts Champion, prompting Rayne to shove James amidst an argument with Tara, and James replying with a punch. On the following episode of \"Impact!\", Tara lost the title to Rayne, while James made her intentions for the Knockouts title clear, after a confrontation with the new champion. James wrestled her return match the following week, defeating Sarita, before being attacked by Rayne's ally, Tara. James wrestled her first TNA pay-per-view match at Turning Point, where she battled Tara to a double disqualification.\n\nOn the November 18 episode of \"Impact!\" James defeated Angelina Love to become the number one contender to the championship. At Final Resolution, James was defeated by Tara in a Falls Count Anywhere match, following interference from Madison Rayne after she sprayed a fire extinguisher and hit James with the Knockouts title belt. On the following episode of \"Impact!\", James defeated Tara in a steel cage match. On January 9, 2011 at Genesis, James lost her match against Rayne for the Knockouts Championship due to interference from Tara. The following month at Against All Odds, James once again failed to win the Knockouts Championship, this time losing to Rayne in a Last Knockout Standing match, after another interference by Tara. On the March 17 episode of \"Impact!\", Rayne agreed to give James another title match at Lockdown, with the added stipulation that should James fail to win the title, she would have to shave her hair off. On March 18, James legitimately separated her shoulder at a TNA house show in Jacksonville, Florida. James's injury was put into a storyline, where it was caused by Rayne and Tara running over her with Tara's motorcycle.\n\nOn April 17, James defeated Madison Rayne in a steel cage match, which lasted less than a minute, to win the TNA Knockouts Championship for the first time. With the win, James became the first woman in history to have held the WWE Women's Championship, the WWE Divas Championship, and the TNA Knockouts Championship. On the May 5 episode of \"Impact!\", James made her first successful title defense against Ms. Tessmacher. On May 15 at Sacrifice, James successfully defended her title against Madison Rayne and in the process helped Tara get a release from her alliance with Rayne. The following month at Slammiversary IX, James successfully defended her title against Angelina Love, however after the match both Love and Winter attacked her. On June 18, James made her debut for TNA's Mexican partner Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA) at Triplemanía XIX, where she teamed with Angelina Love, Sexy Star and Velvet Sky to defeat Cynthia Moreno, Faby Apache, Lolita and Mari Apache in an eight-woman tag team match. James returned to AAA on July 9, teaming with Sexy Star to defeat the Apaches in a tag team match, after which she challenged Mari to a match for her AAA Reina de Reinas Championship. On July 31 at \"Verano de Escándalo\", James competed in an eight-way match for the Reina de Reinas Championship, becoming the last person eliminated by the new champion, Pimpinela Escarlata. On the June 23 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James was defeated by Winter in a non-title Street Fight, following outside interference from Love. This led to a match on August 7 at Hardcore Justice, where James lost the Knockouts Championship to Winter, following multiple interferences from Love and a red mist from Winter. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated Madison Rayne to earn a rematch for the title. On the September 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated Winter to win her second TNA Knockouts Championship. On September 11 at No Surrender, James dropped the title back to Winter. On the September 22 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated Ms. Tessmacher to earn another shot at the championship at Bound for Glory, in a four-way match with defending champion Winter, Madison Rayne and Velvet Sky, which Sky would win.\n\nOn the November 17 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated nine other Knockouts in a gauntlet match to earn a championship match with the new champion, Gail Kim. On December 11 at Final Resolution, Gail defeated James to retain the championship, following a distraction from Madison Rayne. In the main event of the December 29 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James challenged Kim for the championship, but was defeated following interference from Rayne. On the January 5, 2012, episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James and Traci Brooks failed to capture the TNA Knockouts Tag Team Championship from Kim and Rayne. Three days later at Genesis, James lost another championship match against Kim, after being disqualified for using the brass knuckles that were thrown into the ring by Rayne, who was locked in a cage suspended in the air during the match. On the January 19 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated Rayne in a steel cage match. On the January 26 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James and Velvet Sky were defeated by Tara in a three-way number one contender's match for the Knockouts Championship. On the April 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James was defeated by Sky in a six-way number one contenders match, also involving Angelina Love, Madison Rayne, Tara, and Winter. On the June 7 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James again failed to earn a shot at the Knockouts Championship when she was defeated by Ms. Tessmacher in a four-way match that also included Tara and Velvet Sky, while also showing signs of a heel turn due to jealousy of Sky. On the June 21 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James was chosen over Sky as the next challenger for the Knockouts Championship, but failed to recapture the title from Ms. Tessmacher. James' storyline with Sky ended abruptly the following month, when Sky was granted her release from TNA. On the August 2 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James unsuccessfully competed in a four-way number one contenders match involving Gail Kim, Tara and the eventual winner Madison Rayne. After a three-month absence, James returned on the November 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", winning a Knockouts battle royal to become the number one contender to the Knockouts Championship. On December 9 at Final Resolution, James was unsuccessful in winning the championship from Tara after a distraction from her boyfriend Jesse. James received another shot at the championship on the December 20 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", but was again defeated by Tara. On January 13, 2013, at the Genesis pay-per-view, James competed in a five-woman gauntlet match to determine the number one contender to the Knockout Championship, but was eliminated by Gail Kim.\nOn the April 18 of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated Ms. Tessmacher to become the number one contender to the Knockouts Championship. James began turning heel during her title match against defending champion Velvet Sky on the following week, when she targeted Sky's injured knee; James was defeated Sky. On the May 23 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James defeated Sky after attacking her injured knee to become a three-time Knockouts Champion. The following week, James continued portraying a villainous persona by calling out Velvet Sky, acting sarcastic and pompous towards her, and also did not help Sky when she was attacked by Gail Kim. James cemented her heel turn on the June 13 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", when she attacked Sky when the latter said that she was ready for a rematch. James and Sky had their rematch on the June 27 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", where James retained her championship. On the July 4 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James justified her actions by claiming that getting to the top of the Knockouts division requires \"clawing and scratching your way to the top\"; James also claimed that \"no woman would ever be as great as her\" and she'll \"stand atop the division as the greatest Knockouts Champion of all time\". On the July 25 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James successfully defended the championship against Gail Kim. At the September 6 airing of Knockout Knockdown, James defeated Serena Deeb to qualify for the gauntlet battle royal finals, in which James was lastly eliminated by Gail Kim. James lost the Knockouts Championship on the September 19 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" to ODB. Four days later, it was revealed that James had failed to come to terms on a contract renewal with TNA. James later stated in an interview that she technically wasn't under contract with TNA, but she did not confirm that she was gone. On November 15, 2013, James appeared in an interview on WWE.com, discussing her history with WWE and the possibility of making a return to the company. At the December 6 airing of World Cup of Wrestling, James was a member of Team USA, along with James Storm, Christopher Daniels, Kazarian and Kenny King. James was defeated by Team Aces & Eights' Ivelisse Vélez following interference from the other members of Aces & Eights. Team USA would go on to defeat Team Aces & Eights in a 5-on-5 elimination tag team match, in which James gained a measure of retribution by eliminating Vélez during the match; James and Storm were presented with the trophy afterward.\n\nJames made a surprise return to TNA as a fan favorite, after a year and a half absence from the company, on January 30, 2015, during the tapings of \"Impact Wrestling\" in Glasgow, Scotland. James would then have several confrontations with Bram over his actions towards her real life fiancé, Magnus. On the April 24 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James retired from wrestling to focus on becoming a full-time mother, but James Storm talked her into having one more match. On the June 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James declined an offer by Storm to join The Revolution, which resulted in him intentionally shoving her onto a train track in the storyline, which sparked controversy. This was done to write off James from television, as she had no more dates set with the company at the time. James made her return on the July 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", confronting Storm and challenging him to an intergender tag team match. After the match, James got revenge on Storm and she delivered a jumping DDT on him. On the July 29 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", James and Magnus defeated Storm and his partner Serena, when James pinned Serena.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, James signed with Global Force Wrestling (GFW). On July 24, at GFW's inaugural tapings in Las Vegas, Nevada, James lost a three-way GFW Women's Championship tournament qualifying match that also included Lei'D Tapa and the ultimate winner, Christina Von Eerie. On January 22, Christina Von Eerie defeated James and Kimber Lee to retain the GFW Women's Championship.\n\nOn October 13, 2016, it was announced that James would return to WWE's developmental brand NXT at the event on November 19, competing against Asuka for the NXT Women's Championship. On the October 26 episode of \"NXT\", James cut a promo where she formally re–introduced herself and challenged Asuka for the championship. At the event, James was defeated and after the match Asuka refused to shake her hand as a sign of disrespect.\n\nOn December 8, it was announced that James had signed a multi–year contract with WWE. On the January 17, 2017 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", James made her return by helping Alexa Bliss retain her SmackDown Women's Championship against Becky Lynch in a Steel Cage match, revealing herself as the woman under the \"La Luchadora\" gimmick and establishing herself as a villainess character, while also allying with Bliss in the process. She competed in her first match in nearly seven years in a WWE ring on January 29, 2017 at the Royal Rumble pay–per–view, teaming with Bliss and Natalya against Lynch, Naomi, and Nikki Bella in a losing effort. James went on to face Lynch at the Elimination Chamber pay–per–view in another losing effort. She would defeat Lynch in a rematch on the edition of February 14 of \"SmackDown\", but would lose a Two-Out-of-Three Falls match two weeks later to end the storyline. In March, James turned face after hitting Bliss with a Mick Kick, ending their brief alliance and leading to a non-title match between the two on the edition of March 14 of \"SmackDown\", in which James was victorious. At WrestleMania 33, James took part in a six–pack challenge for Bliss’ SmackDown Women's Championship, which saw Naomi winning the title.\n\nShortly after Wrestlemania, James was drafted to Raw as part of the 2017 Superstar Shake–Up. In October, after being named the No. 1 Contender by \"Raw\" General Manager Kurt Angle, James faced Bliss for the Raw Women's Championship at , but was unsuccessful in capturing the title. A few weeks later on the edition of October 30 of \"Raw\", James once again challenged Bliss for the title in the main event but came up short. On January 28, 2018 at the Royal Rumble, James entered the first-ever women's Royal Rumble match at No. 26 and lasted over 8 minutes before being eliminated by long–time rival Trish Stratus. The following month, James competed in the first-ever women's Elimination Chamber match at the namesake pay–per–view, where she entered at No. 5 and eliminated Sonya Deville after a diving Lou Thesz press off the top of a pod before being eliminated by Bayley.\n\nJames proceeded to turn heel and realigned herself with Bliss on the February 26 \"Raw\". At WrestleMania 34, James participated in the first-ever WrestleMania Women's Battle Royal for the WrestleMania Women's Battle Royal Trophy, but was eliminated from the match by Ruby Riott. Later that night, she had planned to manage Bliss to her title defense against Nia Jax, but was attacked and ejected by Jax before the match began. In May, James competed unsuccessfully in a Triple Threat match against Bliss and Bayley, as well as a Gauntlet match in attempts to qualify for the women's Money in the Bank ladder match.\n\nIn August, James returned from a brief hiatus at the sides of Alexa Bliss and Alicia Fox. With Bliss, the tandem began a scripted feud with her former rivals and WWE Hall of Famers Trish Stratus and Lita, setting up a tag team match at WWE Evolution, WWE's first-ever all-women's pay–per–view. Just three days before the event on October 25, however, it was announced that Bliss was pulled out of the match due to a concussion, and that Fox would be her replacement. In the event's opening contest, James and Fox were unsuccessful against Stratus and Lita.\n\nOn November 18 at Survivor Series, James was selected by Bliss to be a part of Team \"Raw\" along with Nia Jax, Tamina, Bayley and Sasha Banks to go against Team \"SmackDown’s\" Naomi, Carmella, Sonya Deville, Asuka and Mandy Rose. Team \"Raw\" came out victorious after Jax was the sole survivor. The victory also upped James’ undefeated streak to 5–0 at Survivor Series. The next night on \"Raw\", James was selected by “General Manager-Elect” Baron Corbin to answer an open-challenge by Raw Women's Champion Ronda Rousey, but lost the title match via submission. Meanwhile, James and Bobby Lashley were announced as one of the teams that would be competing in season 2 of Mixed Match Challenge. Despite pulling ahead with a 3–0 lead on the competition, the duo lost to Bayley and Finn Bálor in the playoffs and were eliminated from the tournament.\n\nBack on \"Raw,\" James made history on the edition of December 17 by competing in the most matches by a female Superstar in the show's 25-year history with 164 total combined matches by this point. On January 27, 2019 at the Royal Rumble, James entered the second women's Royal Rumble match at number 5 and lasted over 11 minutes before being eliminated by Tamina. The following night on \"Raw\", James once again aligned herself with Bliss in hopes of qualifying for the Elimination Chamber event to crown the first-ever WWE Women's Tag Team Champions, but the long-time allies lost their tag team match to Nia Jax and Tamina.\n\nJames would later compete in the second-annual WrestleMania Women's Battle Royal at WrestleMania 35 for the trophy, eliminating Mandy Rose from the match before subsequently being eliminated by Sonya Deville. \n\nOn April 16 during the 2019 WWE Superstar Shake-up, James was drafted back to the SmackDown brand. During a live event on June 1, it was reported that James had suffered a torn ACL in a singles match with Carmella. On July 16, James underwent successful knee surgery and would be out of action for 7 to 9 months, which would be the remainder of her multi-year contract. During her recovery from injury, James would become a commentator for WWE Main Event.\nMickie was later made a free agent after the 2019 WWE Draft.\n\nJames' first country music album, \"Strangers & Angels\", was released on May 18, 2010 on iTunes. The album was self-released with an independent team. On December 2, 2010, James released another single called, \"Hardcore Country\", which was also used as her entrance music with TNA and on their independent circuit appearances. A music video for the single was first shown during James's first appearance on \"TNA Spin Cycle\". For her second album, James joined a Kickstarter campaign in order to partially fund the album. Fans who contributed donations received special items from the campaign. The online campaign was a success, with a total pledge of $16,500 out of a $5,000 goal. The funds helped to produce the first six songs from the album. The album, called \"Somebody's Gonna Pay\" was released on May 7, 2013 under the label Entertainment One (eOne) Music, and debuted on the music charts at #15 on the Billboards Heatseekers charts. James also filmed a music video for the song \"Somebody's Gonna Pay\", from her second album of the same name. The video features former WWE Women's Champion, Trish Stratus and her then-fiancé Magnus. TNA founder, Jeff Jarrett, was also on set of the video in Nashville, Tennessee. Jarrett did not appear in the video, but taught James how to swing a guitar. While she worked for TNA, James also toured around the United States, holding small concerts at various venues.\n\nJames has opened shows for Montgomery Gentry, Randy Houser, Gretchen Wilson and Rascal Flatts. James also performed at the 2011 CMA Music Festival. James again performed at CMA Fest in 2013, where Eric Young and James Storm made appearances at the event. In 2014, James collaborated with country artist Cowboy Troy and fellow wrestler James Storm on a song titled \"Is Everybody Doing OK\", which is featured on Cowboy Troy's album, \"King of Clubs\".\n\nOn November 19, 2016, James released a new song entitled \"Shooting Blanks\".\n\nOn October 14, 2017, James was inducted into The Native American Music Awards Hall of Fame. She also received a Nammy for \"Song of the Year\" for her recording \"Shooting Blanks\". On October 13, 2018, James won “Best Single Recording” for her song “Left Right Left” at the Native American Music Awards.\n\nJames, along with Ken Anderson, represented WWE at the 2008 Republican National Convention, in an effort to persuade fans to register to vote in the 2008 Presidential election. On April 13, 2008, James, along with Layla, Melina and Kelly Kelly, appeared as guest trainers in \"Over the Ropes\". On September 5 of that same year, James appeared on the USA Network show \"Psych\", portraying a villainous roller derby girl called Rita \"Lethal Weapon\" Westwood, in the episode \"Talk Derby to Me\". James made a special appearance on \"Redemption Song\" which is hosted by Chris Jericho along with Candice Michelle, Maryse, and Eve Torres. It was originally aired on November 12, 2008. In 2012, James was featured in Bucky Covington's music video for his song \"Drinking Side of Country\". In June 2013, James starred in a Dr Pepper advert, which featured \"One of a Kind\" individuals talking about the role of Dr. Pepper in their lives.\n\nJames has appeared in eight WWE video games. She made her in-game debut at \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007\" and appears in \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008\", \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009\", \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010\", \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011\", \"WWE 2K18\", \"WWE 2K19\", and WWE 2K20.\n\nWhen she is finished with her wrestling career, James plans to own a farm and be an equine trainer. James owns three Morgan horses named Rhapsody, Bunny and Casanova. James also owns two dogs, one named Butch and a Miniature Pinscher named Elvis. Outside of wrestling, James received her Associate of Arts degree in business administration, and studied for her Bachelor of Arts degree in operations management.\n\nJames has two tattoos: a symbol meaning 'love' on her ankle, and a dragon that wraps around it. James is a fan of Equine sports and American Football, and is a fan of the Dallas Cowboys.\n\nIn 2007, James was engaged to fellow wrestler Kenny Dykstra. On September 25, 2014, James and Nick Aldis, also known as Magnus, had their first child, a boy named Donovan Patrick Aldis. James and Aldis got engaged in December 2014 and married on December 31, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849770", "title": "Limca", "text": "Limca\n\nLimca is a lemon- and lime-flavoured carbonated soft drink made primarily in India and certain parts of the U.S. It contains 60 calories per 150ml can. The formula does not include fruit, relying instead on artificial flavours.\n\nIn an interview in 2008, \"Ramesh Chauhan\" of Parle Bisleri revealed that he had approached the owners of Duke's Lemonade, requesting them to share the formula for the drink with the promise not to make it in India, which was turned down. Chauhan decided to come up with his own formula, which he launched under the Limca brand in 1977.\n\nIn 1992, when the Indian government allowed Coca-Cola to return for operations, at the same time as it admitted Pepsi for the first time, Coca-Cola bought local soft-drink (soda) brands, from Parle Bisleri owner Ramesh Chauhan including Limca, Thums Up (a cola-like drink), Maaza (a mango-juice based drink), Citra (a clear lemon-lime drink), and Gold Spot (Orange flavour).\n\nPrior to 1988, the original formula of Limca contained brominated vegetable oil (BVO). After worldwide reports of ill effects of BVO, its use in soft drinks was banned in India. As a result of this ban, the formula for Limca was changed, and BVO was removed from the concentrate for Limca.\n\nOne of Limca's taglines was \"Limca. It's veri veri Lime & Lemoni.\"\n\nLimca also publishes the \"Limca Book of Records\", a record book similar to the \"Guinness Book of Records\", started originally by Ramesh Chauhan. The \"Limca Book of Records\" details feats, records and other unique statistics from an Indian perspective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849771", "title": "Frost law", "text": "Frost law\n\nFrost laws are seasonal restrictions on traffic weight limits and speeds on roadways subject to thaw weakening.\n\nIn climates that experience below-freezing temperatures, damage to roads from thaw-weakening have led to many US states, Canadian provinces and other jurisdictions to enact laws that restrict vehicle loads during spring months, when road structures are thawing from above in a manner that limits water from escaping the soil structure, thereby weakening the pavement underpinnings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849775", "title": "Anglo-French Declaration", "text": "Anglo-French Declaration\n\nThe Anglo-French Declaration was published by Great Britain and France, shortly after the Armistice of Mudros saw the capitulation of the Ottoman Empire. Some sources mention as publication date 7 November 1918, others 9 November 1918.\n\nThe declaration attempted to explain the reason why the two powers had decided to take part in the battle for Ottoman territories. France and Great Britain contended that their intentions were \"the complete and final liberation of the people\" who had been oppressed by the Ottoman Empire, and the establishment of democratic governments in Ottoman Syria, Ottoman Iraq (Mesopotamia), and other territories still to be assisted in obtaining their \"liberation\".\n\nThe declaration made it explicit that the form of the new governments was to be determined by local populations rather than imposed by the signatory powers. The declaration was meant to allay Arab suspicions of possible European colonialist or imperialist ambitions.\n\nThe object aimed at by France and Great Britain in prosecuting in the East the War let loose by the ambition of Germany is the complete and definite emancipation of the peoples so long oppressed by the Turks and the establishment of national governments and administrations deriving their authority from the initiative and free choice of the indigenous populations.\n\nIn order to carry out these intentions France and Great Britain are at one in encouraging and assisting the establishment of indigenous Governments and administrations in Syria and, Mesopotamia, now liberated by the Allies, and in the territories the liberation of which they are engaged in securing and recognising these as soon as they are actually established.\n\nFar from wishing to impose on the populations of these regions any particular institutions they are only concerned to ensure by their support and by adequate assistance the regular working of Governments and administrations freely chosen by the populations themselves. To secure impartial and equal justice for all, to facilitate the economic development of the country by inspiring and encouraging local initiative, to favour the diffusion of education, to put an end to dissensions that have too long been taken advantage of by Turkish policy, such is the policy which the two Allied Governments uphold in the liberated territories.\n\nThe goal envisaged by France and Great Britain in prosecuting in the East the war set in train by German ambition is the complete and final liberation of the peoples who have for so long been oppressed by the Turks, and the setting up of national governments and ad-ministrations that shall derive their authority from the free exercise of the initiative and choice of the indigenous populations.\n\nIn pursuit of those intentions, France and Great Britain agree to further and assist in the setting up of indigenous governments and administrations in Syria and Mesopotamia, which have already been liberated by the Allies, as well as in those territories which they have been endeavouring to liberate, and to recognize them as soon as they are actually set up.\n\nFar from wishing to impose this or that system upon the populations of those regions, their [i.e., France's and Great Britain's] only concern is to offer such support and efficacious help as will ensure the smooth working of the governments and administrations which those populations will have elected of their own free will to have; to secure impartial and equal justice for all; to facilitate the economic development of the country by promoting and encouraging local initiative; to foster the spread of education; and to put an end to the dissensions which Turkish policy has for so long exploited. Such is the task which the two Allied Powers wish to under-take in the liberated territories.\n\nWhatever the real intentions of France and Great Britain may have been, most territories indeed became free, some after a period of administration under League of Nations mandate, like Lebanon, Syria and Jordan.\n\nNot all liberated peoples got the \"Governments and administrations freely chosen by the populations themselves\". The Kurds were divided among the new states Syria, Iraq and Turkey, and partly remained under Persian rule. The Palestinians were ultimately scattered over the State of Israel, governed by Jewish immigrants, the Occupied Palestinian territories and Jordan. Most of the Palestinians, however, ended up as refugees scattered over several countries in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849782", "title": "Tuas Naval Base", "text": "Tuas Naval Base\n\nTuas Naval Base (TNB) is the second naval base in the history of the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN). Located at the western tip of Singapore, it occupies 0.28 km² (0.11 sq mi) of land. It was officially opened on 2 September 1994 by Goh Chok Tong, the second prime minister of Singapore.\n\nFor about two decades, Brani Naval Base was the RSN's only base. An expansion of the fleet in the early 1980s meant that more space was needed for the fleet and its shore infrastructure. However, this was not possible as the land around Brani was reserved for use by the port authority to develop container facilities. As a result, Tuas was selected as the site for a second naval base.\n\nBetter utilisation of space at TNB resulted in two and a half times more berthing space than Brani, even though TNB only has a shoreline of 850 m (0.5 mi). Provision was also made for recreational facilities. Automation was incorporated into the design of TNB to reduce manpower requirements, such as mechanical ramps for the loading and unloading of vehicles and an automatic storage and retrieval system. It also has a floating dock which can lift 600 tonnes and transfer a ship from sea to land to facilitate repairs and maintenance.\n\nCurrently, the missile corvettes, patrol vessels and mine counter-measures vessels are based at TNB.\n"}
{"id": "1849784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849784", "title": "WXIX-TV", "text": "WXIX-TV\n\nWXIX-TV, virtual channel 19 (UHF digital channel 15), is a Fox-affiliated television station serving Cincinnati, Ohio, United States that is licensed to Newport, Kentucky (as such, it is the only commercial television station in Cincinnati to be licensed to a community on the Kentucky side of the market). The station is owned by Gray Television. WXIX-TV's studios are located at 19 Broadcast Plaza on Seventh Street just west of downtown Cincinnati, and its transmitter is located in the South Fairmount neighborhood on the city's northwest side.\n\nOn cable, the station is available on Charter Spectrum channel 3 in Ohio and channel 4 in Kentucky, and on Cincinnati Bell channel 3.\n\nWXIX-TV began operation as an independent station on August 1, 1968; it was founded by U.S. Communications Corporation, which also owned UHF independent stations WATL-TV in Atlanta, WPGH-TV in Pittsburgh, WPHL-TV in Philadelphia and KEMO-TV (now KOFY-TV) in San Francisco. It was jointly owned by the U.S. Communications Corporation (subsidiary of AVC Corporation) station group of Philadelphia holding an 80% interest and the remaining 20% by Daniel H. Overmyer. Overmyer had previously sold the majority interest (80%) in the construction permits for the stations in Atlanta, Cincinnati, San Francisco, Pittsburgh and Houston to AVC on March 28, 1967, with FCC approval of their sale coming December 8, 1967. Before the sale to AVC, Overmyer had planned on bringing channel 19 on the air in late 1966 as WSCO-TV, named for his wife Shirley Clark Overmyer. WXIX-TV was the first new commercial station in the market since 1949, and the second UHF station in the area (behind PBS member station WCET, channel 48). The original channel allocation tables set by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) did not have channel 19 in the greater Cincinnati market. The construction permit awarded to Overmyer on March 10, 1965 was for channel 74. On August 10, 1965, a request was made by Overmyer to change the allocation from channel 74 to 19, which was done in the next allocation table release a year later. The lower channel number not only allowed WXIX to provide wider signal coverage at less cost, but was also thought to be more marketable.\n\nWhile WXIX was running test transmissions before its inaugural broadcast, the station intermittently aired \"mini-shows\" featuring The Larry Smith Puppets that promoted the sale of UHF converters for use with pre-1964 television sets which were only equipped to receive VHF signals at the time. Larry Smith and his puppets (a witch named \"Battie Hattie from Cincinnati\" and her dog \"Snarfy\" among other characters) later hosted a daytime children's program on weekday afternoons for several years. Afterward, \"The Cool Ghoul\"—played by Dick VonHoene, known for his weekend late night sci-fi/monster movie program \"Scream-In\"—also hosted a weekday afternoon children's program. There was an afternoon show called \"Kimberly's Cartoon Capers\", a cartoon variety hour hosted by Kimberly, a 13-year-old girl.\nBy the early 1970s, U.S. Communications encountered financial difficulties, largely due to poor advertising revenues. The firm wound up taking its San Francisco, Atlanta and Pittsburgh stations off-the-air in 1971 (all would resume operations under different ownership) and also considered the same for WXIX-TV. Instead it put the station up for sale, and would sell WXIX-TV to Metromedia in 1972 for assumption of $3 million in debt. Metromedia's deep pockets helped stabilize channel 19's entire operation, and the station benefited from Metromedia's aggressiveness in purchasing syndicated programming as well as developing its own first-run programming. After over a decade on air, channel 19 finally received competition in 1980 with the launch of WBTI (channel 64, now WSTR-TV), which ran general entertainment and religious programming before 7 p.m. and subscription television at night. However, that competition was short-lived, ending when WBTI became a full-time subscription station by 1982. The over-air subscription television phenomenon occurred in larger markets in the U.S. where cable had yet to penetrate city centers before the late 1980s.\nMalrite Communications bought channel 19 from Metromedia in December 1983. The station remained the leading independent station in the market, even after WBTI returned to full-time general entertainment programming in 1985. On October 9, 1986, WXIX became a charter affiliate of the upstart Fox network (which, coincidentally, used some of WXIX's former Metromedia sister stations as its charter owned-and-operated stations).\n\nThe station changed its on-air branding from \"19XIX\" to \"Fox 19\" in 1996. In 1998, Malrite Communications merged with Raycom Media. Around 2000, WXIX operated a large open space inside the Tri-County Mall called the \"Fox 19 Station Break.\"\n\nOn June 25, 2018, Atlanta-based Gray Television announced it had reached an agreement with Raycom to merge their respective broadcasting assets (consisting of Raycom's 63 existing owned-and/or-operated television stations, including WXIX-TV), and Gray's 93 television stations) under Gray's corporate umbrella. The cash-and-stock merger transaction valued at $3.6 billion—in which Gray shareholders would acquire preferred stock currently held by Raycom—will result in WXIX-TV gaining new sister stations in nearby markets, including ABC affiliate WTVG in Toledo (while separating it from WTOL), and CBS affiliate WKYT in Lexington. The sale was approved on December 20, and was completed on January 2, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWXIX originally carried The Tube Music Network on digital subchannel 19.2 until the network's closure in 2007. The subchannel was reactivated in January 2009 as an affiliate of This TV, which remained with the subchannel until December 2011. Bounce TV replaced This TV on January 1, 2012 (the This TV affiliation was then acquired by WBQC-LD for its 25.2 subchannel). The Grit TV Network was added as 19.3 in July 2015.\n\nOn August 1, 2018, the station's 50th anniversary, it added a fourth subchannel, Ion Television.\n\nOn January 1, 2020, Bounce moved from 19.2 to WCPO-TV, replaced by Heroes & Icons; Circle was added to 19.3; Grit moved from 19.3 to 19.4; and Ion Television moved from 19.4 to 19.5.\n\nBefore February 10, 2020, Justice Network was added to 19.6.\n\nWXIX-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 19, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 29, using PSIP, to display WXIX-TV's virtual channel as 19 on digital television receivers.\n\nWXIX-TV clears the complete Fox network schedule in pattern, including \"Weekend Marketplace\" on Saturday mornings, and \"Xploration Station\" Sunday mornings. The station also airs at least three Cincinnati Bengals games during the NFL season, usually when the team plays host to an NFC team at Paul Brown Stadium, or starting in 2014, with the institution of the NFL's new 'cross-flex' broadcast rules, any Bengals games involving their fellow AFC teams that are moved from WKRC-TV, along with \"Thursday Night Football\".\n\nOn September 17, 2012, WXIX began carrying the syndicated game shows \"Wheel of Fortune\" and \"Jeopardy!\", picking up both programs from ABC affiliate WCPO-TV (channel 9), after its owner E. W. Scripps Company decided to instead carry internally produced national programming on their stations. WXIX is among eight Fox affiliates to air \"Jeopardy!\" and \"Wheel\" (the others being located in Baltimore; Syracuse, New York; New Orleans; Green Bay, Wisconsin; Denver; Lake Charles, Louisiana and Mobile, Alabama).<ref name=\"Wheel/Jeopardy WXIX\"></ref>\n\nWXIX presently broadcasts 61½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 11 hours each weekday, 3 hours on Saturdays and 3½ hours on Sundays).\n\nIn the 1980s, WXIX aired a prime time news brief titled \"The Headline Report\", with Suzanne Kay as the anchor. In the early 1990s, the \"19XIX Headline News\" was read by Hugh Dermody.\nThe station launched its news department on October 18, 1993, with the debut of a 35-minute-long late-evening newscast, originally titled \"The Ten O'Clock News\". Originally anchored by Jack Atherton and Phyllis Watson, alongside chief meteorologist Rich Apuzzo and sports director Greg Hoard, it was the first successful attempt at a prime time newscast in the Cincinnati market. The station gradually expanded its news programming, expanding the \"Ten O'Clock News\" to a full hour on January 22, 1996, and adding a three-hour weekday morning newscast, \"19 in the Morning\", the following year. During the mid-1990s, WXIX also aired a \"Midnight News\" program, one of the few late night local newscasts ever attempted on modern U.S. television. In the late 1990s, the station added a \"19 News Midday\" newscast at 11:30 a.m. WXIX partnered with WBQC-CA (channel 25) to air channel 19's evening newscast during the Cincinnati Bearcats college basketball season. After cable providers in Northern Kentucky and Southwest Ohio dropped WBQC from their basic tiers, these newscasts were moved to Insight Communications channel 6 in Kentucky and Time Warner Cable channel 2 in Ohio. (WXIX no longer broadcasts Bearcat football or basketball games.)\n\nPaul Horton joined WXIX as its chief meteorologist on January 31, 2007; he left channel 19 seven months later on August 7 to become a morning meteorologist at Phoenix CBS affiliate KPHO-TV. Steve Horstmeyer left his longtime morning and noon position at CBS affiliate WKRC-TV (channel 12) to replace Horton as chief meteorologist on August 7, 2008. Horstmeyer traveled to Lake Charles, Louisiana, to assist sister station KPLC, as part of a Raycom effort to cover Hurricane Gustav.\n\nOn August 11, 2008, WXIX debuted a half-hour early evening newscast at 6:30 p.m., which is aimed at the 18 to 54-year-old demographic. The broadcast competes with national network newscasts airing at 6:30 on WLWT (channel 5), WCPO-TV and WKRC-TV. On September 21, 2009, the program was extended to a full hour, with the addition of a half-hour of news at 6 p.m. On September 19, 2011, WXIX reverted the start time of the newscast to 6:30 p.m., though retaining its one-hour time length. By 2015, WXIX had cut its newscast back to a half-hour, starting at 6:30.\n\nOn November 4, 2008, WXIX became the second Cincinnati television station (after WCPO) to begin broadcast its local newscasts in high definition. However, the station continued to broadcast most field reports and weather radar imagery in standard definition. By mid-December, nearly all aspects of its newscasts (including in-studio and field footage, and select video from affiliate news services) were available in high definition. In December 2009, WXIX entered an agreement with WCPO-TV to pool videographers at press conferences. On March 31, 2010, WXIX entered into an agreement with Clear Channel Communications to provide hourly news and weather updates on local radio station WLW (700 AM); these updates began airing on WLW on April 1. This agreement expired in 2015.\n\nOn September 20, 2010, WXIX expanded its weekday morning newscast to 5½ hours, from 4:30 to 10:00 a.m. with the addition of an extension of the newscast during the 9:00 a.m. hour called \"Fox 19 Morning Xtra\". On July 25, 2011, WXIX debuted a half-hour weekday morning weather-focused newscast at 4:00 a.m. called \"Fox 19 First Weather\". On August 18, 2012, WXIX launched two-hour long Saturday and Sunday morning newscasts, airing from 8:00 to 10:00 a.m. In addition on September 10, 2012, the weekday morning newscast was expanded to seven hours from 4:00 to 11:00 a.m., as the \"Morning Xtra\" portion of the program was expanded by one hour. But as of 2013, the 4:00 a.m. half-hour of the morning newscast was cut. The program is now run from 4:30 to 11:00 a.m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849790", "title": "List of tallest structures in Germany", "text": "List of tallest structures in Germany\n\nThis is a list of Germany's tallest structures, containing all types of structures. Please correct and expand this list.\nVarious other wind turbines reach at least 200 m tip height (list will not be updated completely as regards more recent wind turbines, see also German Wikipedia article).\n\n\n\n\n\nAt all bridges height of highest pillar is given\n\n\n\nClose to the site, there is a telecommunication tower of reinforced concrete, the Telecommunication Tower Bungsberg with an observation deck in a height of 40 m.\n\n\n\n\nClose to it, there is the TV Tower Schwerin-Zippendorf, a TV tower of reinforced concrete with an observation deck.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849791", "title": "Withcall", "text": "Withcall\n\nWithcall is a small farming village and civil parish in the East Lindsey district of Lincolnshire, England. It lies within the Lincolnshire Wolds, and south-west from Louth .\n\nThe village was served by Withcall railway station, a small station halt on the long-since defunct Louth to Bardney line; a section of the platform edge still remains, and there is a well-preserved tunnel close by. Work on the building of the tunnel started in January 1852; the tunnel is long. The first passenger train passed through the tunnel in 1876 and the last train in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "1849797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849797", "title": "Salasar Balaji", "text": "Salasar Balaji\n\nनिज मंदिर पुजारी श्रीराम पुजारी +91 9982435366\n\nSalasar Balaji or Salasar Dham in India is a place of religious importance for the devotees of Lord Hanuman. It is located in the town of Salasar, on National Highway 65 near Sujangarh in Churu district, Rajasthan. The temple of Balaji, founded by a farmer is situated in the middle of Salasar and attracts innumerable worshippers throughout the year. On Chaitra Purnima and Ashvin Purnima, large fairs are organized that attract devotees as they pay homage to the deity.\n\nSalasar Balaji is in the religious circuit that includes the pilgrim centers of Rani Sati Temple, Jeen Mata and Khatushyamji, which are located close to it. Initially a small construction, the temple of Salasar Balaji is now considered to be a Shakti Sthal (a shrine) and Swayambhu (self-creation) by faith, belief, miracles and wish fulfilments of the devotees.\nShriram pujari +91 9982435366\n\nHistory claims the site was discovered by a Jat farmer of Asota village in Nagaur district of Rajasthan in samvat 1811 (1754 AD). The farmer hit an item in the ground while plowing his field and discovered it to be an idol covered with sand. His wife arrived and cleaned it the idol with her saree before determining it to be of Hanuman, also known as Balaji. The news of the appearance of Balaji soon spread in the Asota village and reached the Thakur of Asota. That night Balaji appeared in Thakur's dream and ordered him to send the idol to Salasar in the Churu district. The same night a devotee of Hanuman, Mohandas Maharaj of Salasar saw Hanuman or Balaji in his dream too. Balaji told him about the idol of Asota. He immediately sent a message to the Thakur of Asota. The thakur was surprised to discover that Mohandas knew even minor details without coming to Asota. The idol was sent to Salasar and was consecrated at the place presently known as Salasar Dham.\n\nThe principal deity of the temple is Hanuman who receives veneration along with other deities. Of the idols of Hanuman found in India, that at Salasar Balaji is unique because it has a round face with mustache and beard. It is believed that drinking water of the wells of the Salasar is due to the blessings of the Balaji.\n\nThe temple was constructed in 1754 AD. Inspired by a strange dream in which Balaji featured, the founder of the temple, Mohandas Maharaj, constructed a mud and stone temple initially with the help of craftsmen Noora and Dau of Fatehpur Shekhawati. The place was later developed into a concrete temple with the help of the successor of Sikar Jagirdar Rao Devi Singh who contributed to the construction of the temple as he was once saved from the loot by Dungji-Jawaharji by the blessings of Balaji. Later, inspired by Mohandas' devotion towards Balaji, his descendants Kaniram and Ishwardas developed and renovated the temple which took the present form of a large temple complex. A patta of the land was made in the name of Balaji in the presence of Shobhasar Thakur Dhiraj Singh, Salasar Thakur Salim Singh and elders of Tetarwal Jats.\n\nThe temple was constructed over a period of about two years using bricks, stones, cement, lime mortar, and white marble. While white marble is used extensively throughout, the entire circulatory path, the \"Sabha Mandap\" (prayer hall) and the \"Sanctum Sanctorum\" are covered with artistic works of gold and silver. The vestibule, the doors and the utensils used in worshipping are made of silver. The main gate is made up of carving works of white marble. The temple shrine and the sanctum sanctorum are decorated with floral patterns and other kinds of mosaic works done in gold and silver.\n\nWhile the worship of the deity is managed by the Brahmins priests from the Dadhich clan, the temple is managed and maintained by the trust Hanuman Sewa Samiti. They also look after the management of the fairs, social works, public and private facilities such as the maintenance of road, water supply, charitable hospitals, in the village. Over the years, there have been many Dharamshalas and restaurants constructed here to stay and eat comfortably.\n\nThe temple is open to devotees from early morning 4:00 am till 10:00 pm in the night. However, the temple is not closed at all on some special occasions such as Hanuman Jayanti.\n\nThousands of visitors choose to come on feet, while some on prostrated movement showing their intensity of devotion for Balaji.\n\nOf many rituals and traditions performed at the temple, the most widely followed is the tying of coconuts with moli (sacred red threads) in the temple premises by a large number of devotees. It is widely believed that such practice helps them to fulfill their wishes if done with sincere faith. The practice was originated by the Jagirdar of Sikar, Rao Raja Devi Singh. Devi Singh did not have a son. He heard about Balaji and came to this place and tied a coconut on a tree to fulfill his wish of having a son. He was later blessed with a handicapped son Rao Raja Laxman Singh after ten months. Thus the custom of tying coconuts to fulfill wishes continues at the temple from that time onwards.\n\nThe other widely followed practice is the offering of food (weighing up to 50 kg) by the devotees to their deity, referred to as \"Savamani\". The term \"Savamani\" is derived from the word \"Sava\" meaning one and a quarter in Hindi and the word \"Mun\" or \"Maund\", a mass unit weighing about 40 kg; thus adding the total up to 50 kg. Though the food is mostly prepared by the cooks of the temple kitchens, the process is now being outsourced to several independent shopkeepers & food-caterers due to the increasing number of offerings every day. Several delicacies like Dal, Baati, Churma, Boondi, Peda & Laddu is chosen for Savamani. The food after first being offered to the deity, is later used as part of family celebrations, distributed over to family and relatives or donated to the needy.\n\nSome of the regular activities of the temple include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849799", "title": "0.999...", "text": "0.999...\n\nIn mathematics, 0.999... (also written as 0., among other ways) denotes the repeating decimal consisting of infinitely many 9s after the decimal point (and one 0 before it). This repeating decimal represents the smallest number no less than every decimal number in the sequence (0.9, 0.99, 0.999, ...). This number is equal to 1. In other words, \"0.999...\" and \"1\" represent the same number. There are many ways of showing this equality, from intuitive arguments to mathematically rigorous proofs. The technique used depends on the target audience, background assumptions, historical context, and preferred development of the real numbers, the system within which 0.999... is commonly defined. (In other systems, 0.999... can have the same meaning, a different definition, or be undefined.)\n\nMore generally, every nonzero terminating decimal has two equal representations (for example, 8.32 and 8.31999...), which is a property of all base representations. The utilitarian preference for the terminating decimal representation contributes to the misconception that it is the only representation. For this and other reasons—such as rigorous proofs relying on non-elementary techniques, properties, or disciplines—some people can find the equality sufficiently counterintuitive that they question or reject it. This has been the subject of several studies in mathematics education.\n\nThere is an elementary proof of the equation , which uses just the mathematical tools of comparison and addition of (finite) decimal numbers, without any reference to more advanced topics such as series, limits, formal construction of real numbers, etc. The proof, an exercise given by , is a direct formalization of the intuitive fact that, if one draws 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, etc. on the number line there is no room left for placing a number between them and 1. The meaning of the notation 0.999... is the least point on the number line lying to the right of all of the numbers 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, etc. Because there is ultimately no room between 1 and these numbers, the point 1 must be this least point, and so .\n\nIf one places 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, etc. on the number line, one sees immediately that all these points are to the left of 1, and that they get closer and closer to 1.\n\nMore precisely, the distance from 0.9 to 1 is , the distance from 0.99 to 1 is , and so on. The distance to 1 from the th point (the one with 9s after the decimal point) is .\n\nTherefore, if 1 were not the smallest number greater than 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, etc., then there would be a point on the number line that lies between 1 and all these points. This point would be at a positive distance from 1 that is less than for every integer . In the standard number systems (the rational numbers and the real numbers), there is no positive number that is less than for all \"n\". This is (one version of) the Archimedean property, which can be proven to hold in the system of rational numbers. Therefore, 1 is the smallest number that is greater than all 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, etc., and so .\n\nPart of what this argument shows is that there is a least upper bound of the sequence 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, etc.: a smallest number that is greater than all of the terms of the sequence. One of the axioms of the real number system is the completeness axiom, which states that every bounded sequence has a least upper bound. This least upper bound is one way to define infinite decimal expansions: the real number represented by an infinite decimal is the least upper bound of its finite truncations. The argument here does not need to assume completeness to be valid, because it shows that this particular sequence of rational numbers in fact has a least upper bound, and that this least upper bound is equal to one.\n\nThe previous explanation is not a proof, as one cannot define properly the relationship between a number and its representation as a point on the number line. For the accuracy of the proof, the number , with nines after the decimal point, is denoted . Thus , , , and so on. As , with digits after the decimal point, the addition rule for decimal numbers implies\n\nand\n\nfor every positive integer .\n\nOne has to show that 1 is the smallest number that is no less than all . For this, it suffices to prove that, if a number is not larger than 1 and no less than all , then . So let such that\n\nfor every positive integer .\nTherefore,\n\nThis implies that the difference between and is less than the inverse of any positive integer. Thus this difference must be zero, and, thus ; that is\nThis proof relies on the fact that zero is the only nonnegative number that is less than all inverses of integers, or equivalently that there is no number that is larger than every integer. This is the Archimedean property, that is verified for rational numbers and real numbers. Real numbers may be enlarged into number systems, such as hyperreal numbers, with infinitely small numbers (infinitesimals) and infinitely large numbers (infinite numbers). When using such systems, notation 0.999... is generally not used, as there is no smallest number that is no less than all . (This is implied by the fact that implies ).\n\nThe matter of overly simplified illustrations of the equality is a subject of pedagogical discussion and critique. discusses the argument that, in elementary school, one is taught that , so, ignoring all essential subtleties, \"multiplying\" this identity by gives . He further says that this argument is unconvincing, because of an unresolved ambiguity over the meaning of the equals sign; a student might think, \"It surely does not mean that the number 1 is identical to that which is meant by the notation .\" Most undergraduate mathematics majors encountered by Byers feel that while is \"very close\" to 1 on the strength of this argument, with some even saying that it is \"infinitely close\", they are not ready to say that it is equal to 1. discusses how \"this argument gets its force from the fact that most people have been indoctrinated to accept the first equation without thinking\", but also suggests that the argument may lead skeptics to question this assumption.\n\nByers also presents the following argument. Let\nStudents who did not accept the first argument sometimes accept the second argument, but, in Byers' opinion, still have not resolved the ambiguity, and therefore do not understand the representation for infinite decimals. , presenting the same argument, also state that it does not explain the equality, indicating that such an explanation would likely involve concepts of infinity and completeness. , citing , also conclude that the treatment of the identity based on such arguments as these, without the formal concept of a limit, is premature.\n\nThe same argument is also given by , who notes that skeptics may question whether is cancellable that is, whether it makes sense to subtract from both sides.\n\nSince the question of 0.999... does not affect the formal development of mathematics, it can be postponed until one proves the standard theorems of real analysis. One requirement is to characterize real numbers that can be written in decimal notation, consisting of an optional sign, a finite sequence of one or more digits forming an integer part, a decimal separator, and a sequence of digits forming a fractional part. For the purpose of discussing 0.999..., the integer part can be summarized as \"b\" and one can neglect negatives, so a decimal expansion has the form\nThe fraction part, unlike the integer part, is not limited to finitely many digits. This is a positional notation, so for example the digit 5 in 500 contributes ten times as much as the 5 in 50, and the 5 in 0.05 contributes one tenth as much as the 5 in 0.5.\n\nPerhaps the most common development of decimal expansions is to define them as sums of infinite series. In general:\n\nFor 0.999... one can apply the convergence theorem concerning geometric series:\nSince 0.999... is such a sum with \"a\" = 9 and common ratio \"r\" = , the theorem makes short work of the question:\nThis proof appears as early as 1770 in Leonhard Euler's \"Elements of Algebra\".\nThe sum of a geometric series is itself a result even older than Euler. A typical 18th-century derivation used a term-by-term manipulation similar to the algebraic proof given above, and as late as 1811, Bonnycastle's textbook \"An Introduction to Algebra\" uses such an argument for geometric series to justify the same maneuver on 0.999... A 19th-century reaction against such liberal summation methods resulted in the definition that still dominates today: the sum of a series is \"defined\" to be the limit of the sequence of its partial sums. A corresponding proof of the theorem explicitly computes that sequence; it can be found in any proof-based introduction to calculus or analysis.\n\nA sequence (\"x\", \"x\", \"x\", ...) has a limit \"x\" if the distance |\"x\" − \"x\"| becomes arbitrarily small as \"n\" increases. The statement that 0.999... = 1 can itself be interpreted and proven as a limit:\nThe first two equalities can be interpreted as symbol shorthand definitions. The remaining equalities can be proven. The last step, that → 0 as \"n\" → ∞, is often justified by the Archimedean property of the real numbers. This limit-based attitude towards 0.999... is often put in more evocative but less precise terms. For example, the 1846 textbook \"The University Arithmetic\" explains, \".999 +, continued to infinity = 1, because every annexation of a 9 brings the value closer to 1\"; the 1895 \"Arithmetic for Schools\" says, \"when a large number of 9s is taken, the difference between 1 and .99999... becomes inconceivably small\". Such heuristics are often interpreted by students as implying that 0.999... itself is less than 1.\n\nThe series definition above is a simple way to define the real number named by a decimal expansion. A complementary approach is tailored to the opposite process: for a given real number, define the decimal expansion(s) to name it.\n\nIf a real number \"x\" is known to lie in the closed interval [0, 10] (i.e., it is greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 10), one can imagine dividing that interval into ten pieces that overlap only at their endpoints: [0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], and so on up to [9, 10]. The number \"x\" must belong to one of these; if it belongs to [2, 3] then one records the digit \"2\" and subdivides that interval into [2, 2.1], [2.1, 2.2], ..., [2.8, 2.9], [2.9, 3]. Continuing this process yields an infinite sequence of nested intervals, labeled by an infinite sequence of digits \"b\", \"b\", \"b\", \"b\", ..., and one writes\n\nIn this formalism, the identities 1 = 0.999... and 1 = 1.000... reflect, respectively, the fact that 1 lies in both [0, 1] and [1, 2], so one can choose either subinterval when finding its digits. To ensure that this notation does not abuse the \"=\" sign, one needs a way to reconstruct a unique real number for each decimal. This can be done with limits, but other constructions continue with the ordering theme.\n\nOne straightforward choice is the nested intervals theorem, which guarantees that given a sequence of nested, closed intervals whose lengths become arbitrarily small, the intervals contain exactly one real number in their intersection. So \"b\".\"b\"\"b\"\"b\"... is defined to be the unique number contained within all the intervals [\"b\", \"b\" + 1], [\"b\".\"b\", \"b\".\"b\" + 0.1], and so on. 0.999... is then the unique real number that lies in all of the intervals [0, 1], [0.9, 1], [0.99, 1], and [0.99...9, 1] for every finite string of 9s. Since 1 is an element of each of these intervals, 0.999... = 1.\n\nThe Nested Intervals Theorem is usually founded upon a more fundamental characteristic of the real numbers: the existence of least upper bounds or \"suprema\". To directly exploit these objects, one may define \"b\".\"b\"\"b\"\"b\"... to be the least upper bound of the set of approximants {\"b\", \"b\".\"b\", \"b\".\"b\"\"b\", ...}. One can then show that this definition (or the nested intervals definition) is consistent with the subdivision procedure, implying 0.999... = 1 again. Tom Apostol concludes,\n\nSome approaches explicitly define real numbers to be certain structures built upon the rational numbers, using axiomatic set theory. The natural numbers – 0, 1, 2, 3, and so on – begin with 0 and continue upwards, so that every number has a successor. One can extend the natural numbers with their negatives to give all the integers, and to further extend to ratios, giving the rational numbers. These number systems are accompanied by the arithmetic of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. More subtly, they include ordering, so that one number can be compared to another and found to be less than, greater than, or equal to another number.\n\nThe step from rationals to reals is a major extension. There are at least two popular ways to achieve this step, both published in 1872: Dedekind cuts and Cauchy sequences. Proofs that 0.999... = 1 which directly use these constructions are not found in textbooks on real analysis, where the modern trend for the last few decades has been to use an axiomatic analysis. Even when a construction is offered, it is usually applied towards proving the axioms of the real numbers, which then support the above proofs. However, several authors express the idea that starting with a construction is more logically appropriate, and the resulting proofs are more self-contained.\n\nIn the Dedekind cut approach, each real number \"x\" is defined as the \"infinite set of all rational numbers less than x\". In particular, the real number 1 is the set of all rational numbers that are less than 1. Every positive decimal expansion easily determines a Dedekind cut: the set of rational numbers which are less than some stage of the expansion. So the real number 0.999... is the set of rational numbers \"r\" such that \"r\" < 0, or \"r\" < 0.9, or \"r\" < 0.99, or \"r\" is less than some other number of the form\n\nEvery element of 0.999... is less than 1, so it is an element of the real number 1. Conversely, all elements of 1 are rational numbers that can be written as\n\nwith and .\nThis implies\n\nand thus\nand since\n\nby the definition above, every element of 1 is also an element of 0.999..., and, combined with the proof above that every element of 0.999... is also an element of 1, the sets 0.999... and 1 contain the same rational numbers, and are therefore the same set, that is, 0.999... = 1.\n\nThe definition of real numbers as Dedekind cuts was first published by Richard Dedekind in 1872.\nThe above approach to assigning a real number to each decimal expansion is due to an expository paper titled \"Is 0.999 ... = 1?\" by Fred Richman in \"Mathematics Magazine\", which is targeted at teachers of collegiate mathematics, especially at the junior/senior level, and their students. Richman notes that taking Dedekind cuts in any dense subset of the rational numbers yields the same results; in particular, he uses decimal fractions, for which the proof is more immediate. He also notes that typically the definitions allow\n\nAnother approach is to define a real number as the limit of a Cauchy sequence of rational numbers. This construction of the real numbers uses the ordering of rationals less directly. First, the distance between \"x\" and \"y\" is defined as the absolute value |\"x\" − \"y\"|, where the absolute value |\"z\"| is defined as the maximum of \"z\" and −\"z\", thus never negative. Then the reals are defined to be the sequences of rationals that have the Cauchy sequence property using this distance. That is, in the sequence (\"x\", \"x\", \"x\", ...), a mapping from natural numbers to rationals, for any positive rational \"δ\" there is an \"N\" such that |\"x\" − \"x\"| ≤ \"δ\" for all \"m\", \"n\" > \"N\". (The distance between terms becomes smaller than any positive rational.)\n\nIf (\"x\") and (\"y\") are two Cauchy sequences, then they are defined to be equal as real numbers if the sequence (\"x\" − \"y\") has the limit 0. Truncations of the decimal number \"b\".\"b\"\"b\"\"b\"... generate a sequence of rationals which is Cauchy; this is taken to define the real value of the number. Thus in this formalism the task is to show that the sequence of rational numbers\nhas the limit 0. Considering the \"n\"th term of the sequence, for , it must therefore be shown that\nThis limit is plain if one understands the definition of limit. So again 0.999... = 1.\n\nThe definition of real numbers as Cauchy sequences was first published separately by Eduard Heine and Georg Cantor, also in 1872. The above approach to decimal expansions, including the proof that 0.999... = 1, closely follows Griffiths & Hilton's 1970 work \"A comprehensive textbook of classical mathematics: A contemporary interpretation\". The book is written specifically to offer a second look at familiar concepts in a contemporary light.\n\nCommonly in secondary schools' mathematics education, the real numbers are constructed by defining a number using an integer followed by a radix point and an infinite sequence written out as a string to represent the fractional part of any given real number. In this construction, the set of any combination of an integer and digits after the decimal point (or radix point in non-base 10 systems) is the set of real numbers. This construction can be rigorously shown to satisfy all of the real axioms after defining an equivalence relation over the set that defines 1 = 0.999... as well as for any other nonzero decimals with only finitely many nonzero terms in the decimal string with its trailing 9s version. With this construction of the reals, all proofs of the statement \"1 = 0.999...\" can be viewed as implicitly assuming the equality when any operations are performed on the real numbers.\n\nThe result that 0.999... = 1 generalizes readily in two ways. First, every nonzero number with a finite decimal notation (equivalently, endless trailing 0s) has a counterpart with trailing 9s. For example, 0.24999... equals 0.25, exactly as in the special case considered. These numbers are exactly the decimal fractions, and they are dense.\n\nSecond, a comparable theorem applies in each radix or base. For example, in base 2 (the binary numeral system) 0.111... equals 1, and in base 3 (the ternary numeral system) 0.222... equals 1. In general, any terminating base \"b\" expression has a counterpart with repeated trailing digits equal to \"b\" − 1. Textbooks of real analysis are likely to skip the example of 0.999... and present one or both of these generalizations from the start.\n\nAlternative representations of 1 also occur in non-integer bases. For example, in the golden ratio base, the two standard representations are 1.000... and 0.101010..., and there are infinitely many more representations that include adjacent 1s. Generally, for almost all \"q\" between 1 and 2, there are uncountably many base-\"q\" expansions of 1. On the other hand, there are still uncountably many \"q\" (including all natural numbers greater than 1) for which there is only one base-\"q\" expansion of 1, other than the trivial 1.000... This result was first obtained by Paul Erdős, Miklos Horváth, and István Joó around 1990. In 1998 Vilmos Komornik and Paola Loreti determined the smallest such base, the Komornik–Loreti constant \"q\" = 1.787231650... In this base, 1 = 0.11010011001011010010110011010011...; the digits are given by the Thue–Morse sequence, which does not repeat.\n\nA more far-reaching generalization addresses the most general positional numeral systems. They too have multiple representations, and in some sense the difficulties are even worse. For example:\n\nThat all these different number systems suffer from multiple representations for some real numbers can be attributed to a fundamental difference between the real numbers as an ordered set and collections of infinite strings of symbols, ordered lexicographically. Indeed, the following two properties account for the difficulty:\n\nThe first point follows from basic properties of the real numbers: \"L\" has a supremum and \"R\" has an infimum, which are easily seen to be equal; being a real number it either lies in \"R\" or in \"L\", but not both since \"L\" and \"R\" are supposed to be disjoint. The second point generalizes the 0.999.../1.000... pair obtained for \"p\" = \"0\", \"p\" = \"1\". In fact one need not use the same alphabet for all positions (so that for instance mixed radix systems can be included) or consider the full collection of possible strings; the only important points are that at each position a finite set of symbols (which may even depend on the previous symbols) can be chosen from (this is needed to ensure maximal and minimal choices), and that making a valid choice for any position should result in a valid infinite string (so one should not allow \"9\" in each position while forbidding an infinite succession of \"9\"s). Under these assumptions, the above argument shows that an order preserving map from the collection of strings to an interval of the real numbers cannot be a bijection: either some numbers do not correspond to any string, or some of them correspond to more than one string.\n\nMarko Petkovšek has proven that for any positional system that names all the real numbers, the set of reals with multiple representations is always dense. He calls the proof \"an instructive exercise in elementary point-set topology\"; it involves viewing sets of positional values as Stone spaces and noticing that their real representations are given by continuous functions.\n\nOne application of 0.999... as a representation of 1 occurs in elementary number theory. In 1802, H. Goodwin published an observation on the appearance of 9s in the repeating-decimal representations of fractions whose denominators are certain prime numbers. Examples include:\nE. Midy proved a general result about such fractions, now called \"Midy's theorem\", in 1836. The publication was obscure, and it is unclear if his proof directly involved 0.999..., but at least one modern proof by W. G. Leavitt does. If it can be proved that if a decimal of the form 0.\"b\"\"b\"\"b\"... is a positive integer, then it must be 0.999..., which is then the source of the 9s in the theorem. Investigations in this direction can motivate such concepts as greatest common divisors, modular arithmetic, Fermat primes, order of group elements, and quadratic reciprocity.\nReturning to real analysis, the base-3 analogue 0.222... = 1 plays a key role in a characterization of one of the simplest fractals, the middle-thirds Cantor set:\n\nThe \"n\"th digit of the representation reflects the position of the point in the \"n\"th stage of the construction. For example, the point is given the usual representation of 0.2 or 0.2000..., since it lies to the right of the first deletion and to the left of every deletion thereafter. The point is represented not as 0.1 but as 0.0222..., since it lies to the left of the first deletion and to the right of every deletion thereafter.\n\nRepeating nines also turn up in yet another of Georg Cantor's works. They must be taken into account to construct a valid proof, applying his 1891 diagonal argument to decimal expansions, of the uncountability of the unit interval. Such a proof needs to be able to declare certain pairs of real numbers to be different based on their decimal expansions, so one needs to avoid pairs like 0.2 and 0.1999... A simple method represents all numbers with nonterminating expansions; the opposite method rules out repeating nines. A variant that may be closer to Cantor's original argument actually uses base 2, and by turning base-3 expansions into base-2 expansions, one can prove the uncountability of the Cantor set as well.\n\nStudents of mathematics often reject the equality of 0.999... and 1, for reasons ranging from their disparate appearance to deep misgivings over the limit concept and disagreements over the nature of infinitesimals. There are many common contributing factors to the confusion:\n\nThese ideas are mistaken in the context of the standard real numbers, although some may be valid in other number systems, either invented for their general mathematical utility or as instructive counterexamples to better understand 0.999...\n\nMany of these explanations were found by David Tall, who has studied characteristics of teaching and cognition that lead to some of the misunderstandings he has encountered in his college students. Interviewing his students to determine why the vast majority initially rejected the equality, he found that \"students continued to conceive of 0.999... as a sequence of numbers getting closer and closer to 1 and not a fixed value, because 'you haven't specified how many places there are' or 'it is the nearest possible decimal below 1.\n\nThe elementary argument of multiplying 0.333... = by 3 can convince reluctant students that 0.999... = 1. Still, when confronted with the conflict between their belief of the first equation and their disbelief of the second, some students either begin to disbelieve the first equation or simply become frustrated. Nor are more sophisticated methods foolproof: students who are fully capable of applying rigorous definitions may still fall back on intuitive images when they are surprised by a result in advanced mathematics, including 0.999... For example, one real analysis student was able to prove that 0.333... = using a supremum definition, but then insisted that 0.999... < 1 based on her earlier understanding of long division. Others still are able to prove that = 0.333..., but, upon being confronted by the fractional proof, insist that \"logic\" supersedes the mathematical calculations.\n\nJoseph Mazur tells the tale of an otherwise brilliant calculus student of his who \"challenged almost everything I said in class but never questioned his calculator,\" and who had come to believe that nine digits are all one needs to do mathematics, including calculating the square root of 23. The student remained uncomfortable with a limiting argument that 9.99... = 10, calling it a \"wildly imagined infinite growing process.\"\n\nAs part of Ed Dubinsky's APOS theory of mathematical learning, he and his collaborators (2005) propose that students who conceive of 0.999... as a finite, indeterminate string with an infinitely small distance from 1 have \"not yet constructed a complete process conception of the infinite decimal\". Other students who have a complete process conception of 0.999... may not yet be able to \"encapsulate\" that process into an \"object conception\", like the object conception they have of 1, and so they view the process 0.999... and the object 1 as incompatible. Dubinsky \"et al.\" also link this mental ability of encapsulation to viewing as a number in its own right and to dealing with the set of natural numbers as a whole.\n\nWith the rise of the Internet, debates about 0.999... have become commonplace on newsgroups and message boards, including many that nominally have little to do with mathematics. In the newsgroup , arguing over 0.999... is described as a \"popular sport\", and it is one of the questions answered in its FAQ. The FAQ briefly covers , multiplication by 10, and limits, and it alludes to Cauchy sequences as well.\n\nA 2003 edition of the general-interest newspaper column \"The Straight Dope\" discusses 0.999... via and limits, saying of misconceptions,\nA \"Slate\" article reports that the concept of 0.999... is \"hotly disputed on websites ranging from \"World of Warcraft\" message boards to Ayn Rand forums\". In the same vein, the question of 0.999... proved such a popular topic in the first seven years of Blizzard Entertainment's Battle.net forums that the company issued a \"press release\" on April Fools' Day 2004 that it is 1:\n\nTwo proofs are then offered, based on limits and multiplication by 10.\n\n0.999... features also in mathematical jokes, such as:\nAlthough the real numbers form an extremely useful number system, the decision to interpret the notation \"0.999...\" as naming a real number is ultimately a convention, and Timothy Gowers argues in \"Mathematics: A Very Short Introduction\" that the resulting identity 0.999... = 1 is a convention as well:\n\nOne can define other number systems using different rules or new objects; in some such number systems, the above proofs would need to be reinterpreted and one might find that, in a given number system, 0.999... and 1 might not be identical. However, many number systems are extensions of, rather than independent alternatives to, the real number system, so 0.999... = 1 continues to hold. Even in such number systems, though, it is worthwhile to examine alternative number systems, not only for how 0.999... behaves (if, indeed, a number expressed as \"0.999...\" is both meaningful and unambiguous), but also for the behavior of related phenomena. If such phenomena differ from those in the real number system, then at least one of the assumptions built into the system must break down.\n\nSome proofs that 0.999... = 1 rely on the Archimedean property of the real numbers: that there are no nonzero infinitesimals. Specifically, the difference 1 − 0.999... must be smaller than any positive rational number, so it must be an infinitesimal; but since the reals do not contain nonzero infinitesimals, the difference is therefore zero, and therefore the two values are the same.\n\nHowever, there are mathematically coherent ordered algebraic structures, including various alternatives to the real numbers, which are non-Archimedean. Non-standard analysis provides a number system with a full array of infinitesimals (and their inverses). A. H. Lightstone developed a decimal expansion for hyperreal numbers in (0, 1). Lightstone shows how to associate to each number a sequence of digits,\n\nindexed by the hypernatural numbers. While he does not directly discuss 0.999..., he shows the real number is represented by 0.333...;...333... which is a consequence of the transfer principle. As a consequence the number 0.999...;...999... = 1. With this type of decimal representation, not every expansion represents a number. In particular \"0.333...;...000...\" and \"0.999...;...000...\" do not correspond to any number.\n\nThe standard definition of the number 0.999... is the limit of the sequence 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, ... A different definition involves what Terry Tao refers to as \"ultralimit\", i.e., the equivalence class [(0.9, 0.99, 0.999, ...)] of this sequence in the ultrapower construction, which is a number that falls short of 1 by an infinitesimal amount. More generally, the hyperreal number with last digit 9 at infinite hypernatural rank \"H\", satisfies a strict inequality Accordingly, an alternative interpretation for \"zero followed by infinitely many 9s\" could be\nAll such interpretations of \"0.999...\" are infinitely close to 1. Ian Stewart characterizes this interpretation as an \"entirely reasonable\" way to rigorously justify the intuition that \"there's a little bit missing\" from 1 in 0.999... Along with Katz & Katz, Robert Ely also questions the assumption that students' ideas about are erroneous intuitions about the real numbers, interpreting them rather as \"nonstandard\" intuitions that could be valuable in the learning of calculus.\nJose Benardete in his book \"Infinity: An essay in metaphysics\" argues that some natural pre-mathematical intuitions cannot be expressed if one is limited to an overly restrictive number system:\nCombinatorial game theory provides alternative reals as well, with infinite Blue-Red Hackenbush as one particularly relevant example. In 1974, Elwyn Berlekamp described a correspondence between Hackenbush strings and binary expansions of real numbers, motivated by the idea of data compression. For example, the value of the Hackenbush string LRRLRLRL... is 0.010101... = . However, the value of LRLLL... (corresponding to 0.111...) is infinitesimally less than 1. The difference between the two is the surreal number , where ω is the first infinite ordinal; the relevant game is LRRRR... or 0.000...\n\nThis is in fact true of the binary expansions of many rational numbers, where the values of the numbers are equal but the corresponding binary tree paths are different. For example, 0.10111... = 0.11000..., which are both equal to 3/4, but the first representation corresponds to the binary tree path LRLRLLL... while the second corresponds to the different path LRLLRRR...\n\nAnother manner in which the proofs might be undermined is if 1 − 0.999... simply does not exist, because subtraction is not always possible. Mathematical structures with an addition operation but not a subtraction operation include commutative semigroups, commutative monoids and semirings. Richman considers two such systems, designed so that 0.999... < 1.\n\nFirst, Richman defines a nonnegative \"decimal number\" to be a literal decimal expansion. He defines the lexicographical order and an addition operation, noting that 0.999... < 1 simply because 0 < 1 in the ones place, but for any nonterminating \"x\", one has 0.999... + \"x\" = 1 + \"x\". So one peculiarity of the decimal numbers is that addition cannot always be cancelled; another is that no decimal number corresponds to . After defining multiplication, the decimal numbers form a positive, totally ordered, commutative semiring.\n\nIn the process of defining multiplication, Richman also defines another system he calls \"cut \"D\"\", which is the set of Dedekind cuts of decimal fractions. Ordinarily this definition leads to the real numbers, but for a decimal fraction \"d\" he allows both the cut (−∞, \"d\") and the \"principal cut\" (−∞, \"d\"<nowiki>]</nowiki>. The result is that the real numbers are \"living uneasily together with\" the decimal fractions. Again 0.999... < 1. There are no positive infinitesimals in cut \"D\", but there is \"a sort of negative infinitesimal,\" 0, which has no decimal expansion. He concludes that 0.999... = 1 + 0, while the equation \"0.999... + \"x\" = 1\" has no solution.\n\nWhen asked about 0.999..., novices often believe there should be a \"final 9\", believing 1 − 0.999... to be a positive number which they write as \"0.000...1\". Whether or not that makes sense, the intuitive goal is clear: adding a 1 to the final 9 in 0.999... would carry all the 9s into 0s and leave a 1 in the ones place. Among other reasons, this idea fails because there is no \"final 9\" in 0.999... However, there is a system that contains an infinite string of 9s including a last 9.\n\nThe \"p\"-adic numbers are an alternative number system of interest in number theory. Like the real numbers, the \"p\"-adic numbers can be built from the rational numbers via Cauchy sequences; the construction uses a different metric in which 0 is closer to \"p\", and much closer to \"p\", than it is to 1. The \"p\"-adic numbers form a field for prime \"p\" and a ring for other \"p\", including 10. So arithmetic can be performed in the \"p\"-adics, and there are no infinitesimals.\n\nIn the 10-adic numbers, the analogues of decimal expansions run to the left. The 10-adic expansion ...999 does have a last 9, and it does not have a first 9. One can add 1 to the ones place, and it leaves behind only 0s after carrying through: 1 + ...999 = ...000 = 0, and so ...999 = −1. Another derivation uses a geometric series. The infinite series implied by \"...999\" does not converge in the real numbers, but it converges in the 10-adics, and so one can re-use the familiar formula:\n(Compare with the series above.) A third derivation was invented by a seventh-grader who was doubtful over her teacher's limiting argument that 0.999... = 1 but was inspired to take the multiply-by-10 proof above in the opposite direction: if \"x\" = ...999 then 10\"x\" =  ...990, so 10\"x\" = \"x\" − 9, hence \"x\" = −1 again.\n\nAs a final extension, since 0.999... = 1 (in the reals) and ...999 = −1 (in the 10-adics), then by \"blind faith and unabashed juggling of symbols\" one may add the two equations and arrive at ...999.999... = 0. This equation does not make sense either as a 10-adic expansion or an ordinary decimal expansion, but it turns out to be meaningful and true in the doubly infinite decimal expansion of the 10-adic solenoid, with eventually repeating left ends to represent the real numbers and eventually repeating right ends to represent the 10-adic numbers.\n\nThe philosophy of ultrafinitism rejects as meaningless concepts dealing with infinite sets, such as idea that the notation formula_1 might stand for a decimal number with an \"infinite sequence of nines\", as well as the summation of infinitely many numbers formula_2 corresponding to the positional values of the decimal digits in that infinite string. In this approach to mathematics, only some particular (fixed) number of finite decimal digits is meaningful. Instead of \"equality\", one has \"approximate equality\", which is equality up to the number of decimal digits that one is permitted to compute. Although Katz and Katz argue that ultrafinitism may capture the student intuition that 0.999... ought to be less than 1, the ideas of ultrafinitism do not enjoy widespread acceptance in the mathematical community, and the philosophy lacks a generally agreed-upon formal mathematical foundation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849801", "title": "Mizuno Corporation", "text": "Mizuno Corporation\n\nMizuno was founded in 1906 as Mizuno Brothers Ltd by Rihachi Mizuno and his younger brother Rizo, in Osaka. The shop sold Western sundries, including baseballs, and then in 1907 began to sell order-made athletic wear. In 1910 the shop moved to Umeda Shinmichi and its name was changed to Mizuno Shop. In 1913 the firm began to manufacture baseballs and gloves. In 1933 Mizuno presented \"Star Line\", the first Japanese made golf clubs. By 1935 its golf club showroom was the world's largest. In 1941 the company name was changed to Mizuno Co., Ltd, and has remained the same since. The first American factory was established in Los Angeles, under the denomination American Mizuno in 1961.\n\nDuring the following years, Mizuno signed sponsorship deals with some of the most prominent personalities in sports, such as track and field athlete Carl Lewis, the All Blacks rugby team, former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Joe Montana, for most of his years in the NFL, the Manu Samoa rugby team, Czech tennis player Ivan Lendl, and golf player Nick Faldo.\n\nThe company also expanded its operation centres opening new factories in Germany, France, China, Scotland and Hong Kong.\n\nMizuno is a manufacturer of golf clubs and accessories, their Grain Flow Forged irons are used by professional golfers. Tiger Woods used Mizuno golf clubs until he turned professional in 1996, including for his first Masters Tournament victory in 1997, having left Mizuno and moved to Titleist. Other players have played using Mizuno equipment during their careers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849803", "title": "Coins in the Fountain (novel)", "text": "Coins in the Fountain (novel)\n\nCoins in the Fountain is a novel by John Hermes Secondari, from which was adapted the 1954 Academy Award-winning film, \"Three Coins in the Fountain\". It was remade in 1964 as the Oscar-nominated film \"The Pleasure Seekers\" and again in 1990 as \"Coins in the Fountain\".\n"}
{"id": "1849804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849804", "title": "France men's national basketball team", "text": "France men's national basketball team\n\nThe France national basketball team () represents France in international basketball and is administered by the French Federation of Basketball. France has been a regular at the EuroBasket, with 37 appearances, the most of any nation. Its best result at the tournament was a gold medal at EuroBasket 2013. The team has also earned two silver medals, in 1949 and 2011. The French squad has won two silver medals at the Summer Olympics as well, in 1948 and 2000. France's best result at the FIBA World Cup has been a pair of bronze medals, earned in 2014 and 2019. \n\nFrance is currently ranked sixth in the FIBA World Rankings.\n\nThroughout its history, France's national basketball team has experienced many ups and downs. The time periods where the national team earned medals have been quite streaky.\n\nIn Europe, team France started out as a fierce competitor. The team won 5 medals at the EuroBasket between 1937 and 1959.<br>\n1937: \"Bronze Medal\", 3–2 overall, second in preliminary group, lost semifinal, won bronze medal match<br>\n1947: \"Silver Medal\", 5–1 overall, round robin tournament, no playoffs<br>\n1949: \"Bronze Medal\"; 6–3 overall, second in preliminary group at 3–1, won semifinal group in three-way tie-breaker with 2–1 record, lost semifinal, won bronze medal match<br>\n1953: \"Bronze Medal\", 6–4 overall, second in preliminary group at 2–1, second position of four-way tiebreaker for 2nd place in final round with 4–3 record.<br>\n1959: \"Bronze Medal\", 7–3 overall, second in preliminary group at 3–1, first in Semi-final round at 3–0, third in final round with 1–2 record.\n\nIts period of glory at the world stage began in the late 1940s / early 1950s.\nAt the 1948 Olympics in London, the France team led by Robert Busnel won an Olympic silver medal, the first Olympic medal in its history. The French finished second only to the United States.\n\nIn the wake of this Olympic medal, France, led by captain André Vacheresse, won three consecutive medals, including silver at the EuroBasket 1949, and bronze at the EuroBasket 1951 and the EuroBasket 1953.\n\nThe following years were less glorious. France's basketball team seemingly declined gradually to disappear almost completely from the two major world competitions during the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nAfter the disappointing 60s and 70s, the 1980s were marked by a generation of hope, counting in its ranks French basketball icons such as Richard Dacoury, Stephane Ostrowski and Hervé Dubuisson.\nDuring this decade, France returned to the Olympics (1984), and the 1986 FIBA World Championship.\n\nDuring the 1990s Team France had its moments to shine despite some internal struggles and many injuries for key players. At the European meetings, the team did not win a medal despite some good performances. The years 1999 and 2000, however, marked a turnaround for French basketball. The team built around Rigaudeau, Tariq Abdul-Wahad, Sciarra, Bilba, Foirest finished in the top 4 at the EuroBasket 1999 in France and only lost the bronze medal final to Yugoslavia (74–62), despite some internal problems that disrupted the group of players. In 2000, team France traveled to the Olympics in Sydney, full of ambition, which developed the means for major achievement. At the end of its time in Australia, the selection of Jean-Pierre de Vincenzi won the Olympic silver medal, the selection's first top 3 performance at a major basketball event in 46 years and its first Olympic medal in 52 years.\n\nAfter this event, the Olympic vice-champion gained new backbone in Tony Parker who was selected by the San Antonio Spurs in the 2001 NBA draft. However, at the EuroBasket 2001, without Rigaudeau, who surprisingly decided to retire from the team after the Olympics, the 19-year-old Parker alone was not enough as France failed to repeat its outstanding performance at the Olympic Games. France lost the quarter-finals to Germany 77–81 and finished 6th place overall. During this time, most of France's players cleared their spots for a new generation of players, which were available in abundance as France Junior national team had won the 2000 junior championship.\n\nAt the EuroBasket 2003, France competed with an immensely talented squad, which included the NBA players Tony Parker, Jérôme Moïso and Tariq Abdul-Wahad, future NBA-player Boris Diaw and Euroleague players Laurent Foirest, Cyril Julian and Florent Piétrus. The stated objective was the title, which would come as the second within a short time-period to Tony Parker who had won the NBA title only a few months ago. But despite competing with one of the most promising rosters ever, France lost in the semifinal against Lithuania and then also barely lost the match for 3rd place against Italy, which France had declassified in the preliminary round. At the end, France even failed to qualify for the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nHoping not to repeat the disappointing performance of 2003, France's squad again saw some considerable changes in 2005. Then, for the EuroBasket 2005 team France was built based on team chemistry instead of big names; Amongst others, Jérôme Moïso and Tariq Abdul-Wahad disappeared from the roster and the newly formed team was built on the three NBA players Tony Parker, Boris Diaw, and Mickaël Piétrus as well as the returning EuroLeague and NBA-veteran Antoine Rigaudeau. The new coach Claude Bergeaud, surprisingly also selected Frédéric Weis, an underachieving player once drafted at the 1999 NBA Draft, who did not participate the team's preparation. After a sobering first round, team France improved to stunning performances in the playoffs. First, France eliminated world champion Serbia-Montenegro on their home court, then the team defeated the European champion Lithuania. Then, in a semi-final game against Greece where both side battled each other through tough defense, France failed in the last second after leading by seven points, 45 seconds before the game ended. Unlike 2003, however, France recovered to win a bronze medal by beating Spain in the small final by more than thirty points.\n\nAt the 2006 FIBA World Cup France competed without Tony Parker, who suffered a twisted finger two days before the competition. Because of this, the San Antonio Spurs, who just signed Parker to a 51 million Euros contract did not allow him to participate. After a first round marked by three wins and two losses, including a downfall to Lebanon, France beat Angola in the eighth-finals 68–62 before losing in the quarterfinals against Greece 56–73. Two victories in classification matches finally granted the French the fifth place.\n\nAt the EuroBasket 2007, France fell behind its aspirations again. After a strong preliminary round, the team was eliminated in the quarterfinals by eventual champion Russia (75–71), then was beaten in the classification games by Croatia (86–69) and Slovenia (88–74), finishing in 8th place, missing for the second consecutive time the Olympic Games. In the following months, the team had to go through the ordeal of qualifications to participate in the next EuroBasket which was to be held in 2009. In 2008, Michel Gomez returned as coach, a position he has held between 1993 and 1995. But Gomez failed to help the national team qualify directly for the European Championship and had to enter a repechage tournament. In August 2009 he was replaced by Vincent Collet, coach of ASVEL Lyon-Villeurbanne.\n\nUnder Collet's direction, the Bleus won the last ticket to the EuroBasket 2009 by trashing Belgium 92–54 in the final game of the repechage. At the European Championship, France won its first six games of the first two rounds but failed in the quarterfinals against the eventual tournament Champion Spain. Spain finished fourth in their group during the main round due to two defeats, against Serbia in the first round, and Turkey in the second. One main reason for these defeats was certainly the absence of star-player Pau Gasol who missed these games due to finger surgery. The French finally finished in fifth place, a performance which would grant the team the direct qualification for the next two major competitions, the 2010 FIBA World Cup and EuroBasket 2011.\n\nLed by extraordinary performances by the iconic Tony Parker, France finished 2nd at the EuroBasket 2011, its best performance at the European Championship in over 60 years. Two years later, on 22 September 2013, France beat Lithuania 80–66 to win the EuroBasket 2013 title, their first continental crown. Parker was named the tournament's most valuable player.\n\nSince the summer of 2017, the French national team has been composed of 37 players who have all signed an engagement contract that engages them until the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.\n\nRoster for the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1935 EuroBasket: finished 5th among 10 teams\n\nPierre Boel, Robert Cohu, Etienne Roland, Raoul Gouga, Henri Hell, Charles Hemmerlin, Francis Rudler, Jacques Flouret (Coach: Marius Orial)\n\n1936 Olympic Games: finished 20th among 21 teams\n\nPierre Boel, Georges Carrier, Robert Cohu, Jacques Flouret, Fernand Prudhomme, Etienne Roland, Lucien Theze, Pierre Caque, Jean Couturier, Edmond Leclere, Etienne Onimus\n\n1937 EuroBasket: finished 3rd among 8 teams\n\nHenri Lesmayoux, Etienne Roland, Pierre Boel, Robert Cohu, Jacques Flouret, Henri Hell, Edmond Leclere, Fernand Prudhomme, Eugene Ronner, Marcel Verot (Coach: Henri Kretzschmar)\n\n1939 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 8 teams\n\nRobert Busnel, Henri Lesmayoux, Fernand Prudhomme, Etienne Roland, Robert Cohu, Vladimir Fabrikant, Jean Jeammes, Emile Frezot, Maurice Mertz, Abel Gravier, Andre Ambroise, Gaston Falleur, Gabriel Gonnet, Alexandre Katlama (Coach: Paul Geist)\n\n1946 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 10 teams\n\nAndré Buffière, Robert Busnel, René Chocat, Henri Lesmayoux, Paul Chaumont, Jean Duperray, Etienne Roland, Emile Frezot, Maurice Girardot, Andre Goeuriot, Jacques Perrier, Lucien Rebuffic, Justy Specker, Andre Tartary (Coach: Paul Geist)\n\n1947 EuroBasket: finished 5th among 14 teams\n\nRobert Busnel, René Chocat, Marcel Béziers, Henri Lesmayoux, Jean Duperray, Jacques Faucherre, Jacques Favory, Emile Frezot, Maurice Girardot, Andre Goeuriot, Aime Gravas, Fernand Guillou, Jacques Perrier, Pierre Thiolon (Coach: Michael Rutzgis)\n\n1948 Olympic Games: finished 2nd among 23 teams\n\nAndré Buffière, René Chocat, André Barrais, Michel Bonnevie, René Dérency, Maurice Desaymonnet, André Even, Fernand Guillou, Maurice Girardot, Raymond Offner, Jacques Perrier, Yvan Quénin, Lucien Rebuffic, Pierre Thiolon (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1949 EuroBasket: finished 2nd among 7 teams\n\nAndré Buffière, Robert Busnel, René Chocat, Jacques Dessemme, Maurice Desaymonnet, Louis Devoti, Jacques Favory, Jacques Freimuller, Fernand Guillou, Jean Perniceni, Marc Quiblier, Jean-Pierre Salignon, Jean Swidzinski, André Vacheresse (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1950 World Championship: finished 6th among 10 teams\n\nJacques Dessemme, Maurice Desaymonnet, Robert Monclar, Jacques Perrier, Jean Swidzinski, Jean Perniceni, Fernand Guillou, Robert Marsolat, Jean-Pierre Salignon, Maurice Marcelot, André Vacheresse, Jacques Chalifour (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1951 EuroBasket: finished 3rd among 17 teams\n\nAndré Buffière, René Chocat, Jacques Dessemme, Robert Monclar, Jean-Pierre Salignon, Louis Devoti, Jacques Freimuller, Robert Guillin, Justy Specker, Marc Peironne, Jean Perniceni, Marc Quiblier, Pierre Thiolon, André Vacheresse (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1952 Olympic Games: finished 8th among 23 teams\n\nAndré Buffière, René Chocat, Jacques Dessemme, Jean-Pierre Salignon, Louis Devoti, Robert Guillin, Robert Monclar, Jean Perniceni, Roger Haudegand, André Vacheresse, Bernard Planque, Andre Chavet, Robert Crost\n\n1953 EuroBasket: finished 3rd among 17 teams\n\nAndré Buffière, René Chocat, Jacques Dessemme, Robert Monclar, Jacques Freimuller, Claude Gallay, Robert Guillin, Roger Haudegand, Jean Perniceni, Justy Specker, Bernard Planque, Marc Quiblier, Henri Rey, André Vacheresse (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1954 World Championship: finished 4th among 12 teams\n\nJean-Paul Beugnot, André Buffière, Roger Antoine, Henri Grange, Jacques Dessemme, Robert Monclar, Roger Haudegand, Robert Zagury, Jacques Freimuller, Jean Perniceni, Henri Rey, Louis Bertorelle, Paul Schlupp, Yves Gominon (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1955 EuroBasket: finished 9th among 18 teams\n\nJean-Paul Beugnot, André Buffière, Henri Grange, Robert Monclar, Louis Bertorelle, Jacques Freimuller, Robert Giraud, Maurice Marcelot, Jacques Owen, Jean Perniceni, Bernard Planque, Gerard Pontais, Henri Rey, André Vacheresse (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1956 Olympic Games: finished 4th among 15 teams\n\nJean-Paul Beugnot, Roger Antoine, Henri Grange, Robert Monclar, Roger Haudegand, Christian Baltzer, Roger Veyron, Gerard Sturla, Henri Rey, Yves Gominon, Maurice Buffiere, Andre Schlupp (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1957 EuroBasket: finished 8th among 16 teams\n\nRoger Antoine, Henri Grange, Christian Baltzer, Robert Monclar, Louis Bertorelle, Maurice Buffiere, Claude Desseaux, Roger Guillaume, Jean-Claude Lefebvre, Bernard Mayeur, Gerard Sturla, Roger Veyron (Coach: Robert Busnel)\n\n1959 EuroBasket: finished 3rd among 17 teams\n\nHenri Grange, Maxime Dorigo, Philippe Baillet, Henri Villecourt, Christian Baltzer, Robert Monclar, Andre Chavet, Jerome Christ, Jean-Claude Lefebvre, Bernard Mayeur, Michel Rat, Lucien Sedat (Coach: André Buffière)\n\n1959 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1960 Olympic Games: finished 10th among 16 teams\n\nJean-Paul Beugnot, Roger Antoine, Henri Grange, Robert Monclar, Henri Villecourt, Maxime Dorigo, Jerome Christ, Jean Degros, Christian Baltzer, Bernard Mayeur, Philippe Baillet, Louis Bertorelle (Coach: André Buffière)\n\n1961 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 19 teams\n\nJean-Paul Beugnot, Henri Grange, Jerome Christ, Lucien Sedat, Bernard Mayeur, Michel Rat, Michel House, Michel le Ray, Christian Baltzer, Andre Goisbault, Jean-Claude Vergne, Andre Souvre (Coach: André Buffière)\n\n1963 EuroBasket: finished 13th among 16 teams\n\nAlain Gilles, Jean Degros, Christian Baltzer, Michel Rat, Jean-Claude Lefebvre, Claude Marc, Jean-Claude Bonato, Jacques Caballe, Jean-Pierre Goisbault, Jean-Baptiste Re, Michel Audureau, Philippe Baillet (Coach: André Buffière)\n\n1963 World Championship: finished 5th among 13 teams\n\nAlain Gilles, Jean Degros, Henri Grange, Christian Baltzer, Maxime Dorigo, Jean-Daniel Vinson, Michel le Ray, Bernard Mayeur, Jean-Baptiste Re, Jean-Claude Lefebvre, Michel Rat, Raphael Ruiz (Coach: André Buffière)\n\n1964 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1965 EuroBasket: finished 9th among 16 teams\n\nAlain Gilles, Jean-Claude Bonato, Jean Degros, Michel le Ray, Alain Schol, Daniel Ledent, Jean-Marie Jouaret, Hubert Papin, Laurent Dorigo, Gerard Capron, Ferruccio Biasucci, Maurice Boulois\n\n1967 EuroBasket: finished 11th among 16 teams\n\nAlain Gilles, Jean Degros, Alain Schol, Jean-Pierre Staelens, Michel le Ray, Jean-Claude Bonato, Francis Schneider, Charles Tassin, Michel Longueville, Gerard Lespinasse, Claude Peter, Alain Durand (Coach: Joe Jaunay)\n\n1967 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1968 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1969 EuroBasket: did not participate\n\n1970 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1971 EuroBasket: finished 10th among 12 teams\n\nJacques Cachemire, Alain Gilles, Jean-Pierre Staelens, Jean-Claude Bonato, Daniel Ledent, Charles Tassin, Alain Durand, Carlo Wilm, Claude Gasnal, Bernard Magnin, Michel Longueville, Gerard Lespinasse (Coach: Joe Jaunay)\n\n1972 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1973 EuroBasket: finished 10th among 12 teams\n\nJacques Cachemire, Jean-Claude Bonato, Jean-Michel Sénégal, Pierre Galle, Daniel Ledent, Charles Tassin, Yves-Marie Verove, Jean-Louis Vacher, Jacky Lamothe, Claude Gasnal, Firmin Onissah, Patrick Demars (Coach: Joe Jaunay)\n\n1974 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1975 EuroBasket: did not participate\n\n1976 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1977 EuroBasket: finished 11th among 12 teams\n\nHervé Dubuisson, Jacques Cachemire, Eric Beugnot, Alain Gilles, Mathieu Bisseni, Barry White, Alain Larrouquis, Alain Durand, Didier Dobbels, Jacky Lamothe, Roger Duquesnoy, Jean-Louis Vacher (Coach: Pierre Dao)\n\n1978 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1979 EuroBasket: finished 8th among 12 teams\n\nHervé Dubuisson, Jacques Cachemire, Eric Beugnot, Jean-Michel Sénégal, Jacques Monclar, Mathieu Bisseni, Victor Boistol, Apollo Faye, Saint-Ange Vebobe, Bill Cain, Georges Brosterhous, Jacky Lamothe (Coach: Pierre Dao)\n\n1980 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1981 EuroBasket: finished 8th among 12 teams\n\nPhilip Szanyiel, Jacques Cachemire, Richard Dacoury, Hervé Dubuisson, Frederic Hufnagel, Jacques Monclar, Eric Beugnot, Jean-Michel Sénégal, Jean-Luc Deganis, Patrick Cham, Didier Dobbels, Jacky Lamothe (Coach: Pierre Dao)\n\n1982 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1983 EuroBasket: finished 5th among 12 teams\n\nPhilip Szanyiel, Hervé Dubuisson, Richard Dacoury, Jacques Cachemire, Eric Beugnot, Georges Vestris, Jean-Michel Sénégal, Apollo Faye, Jacques Monclar, Alain Larrouquis, Georges Brosterhous, Daniel Haquet (Coach: Pierre Dao)\n\n1984 Olympic Games: finished 11th among 12 teams\n\nRichard Dacoury, Philip Szanyiel, Stéphane Ostrowski, Hervé Dubuisson, Eric Beugnot, Greg Beugnot, Jean-Michel Sénégal, Jacques Monclar, Georges Vestris, Bengaly Kaba, Jean-Luc Deganis, Patrick Cham (Coach: Jean Luent)\n\n1985 EuroBasket: finished 6th among 12 teams\n\nPhilip Szanyiel, Stéphane Ostrowski, Hervé Dubuisson, Frederic Hufnagel, Jacques Monclar, Valéry Demory, Franck Cazalon, Patrick Cham, Christophe Gregoire, Daniel Haquet, Christian Garnier, Jean-Louis Hersin (Coach: Jean Luent)\n\n1986 World Championship: finished 13th among 24 teams\n\nRichard Dacoury, Stéphane Ostrowski, Hervé Dubuisson, Frederic Hufnagel, Valéry Demory, Jacques Monclar, Jean-Luc Deganis, Eric Beugnot, Georges Vestris, Patrick Cham, Christian Garnier, Daniel Haquet (Coach: Jean Galle)\n\n1987 EuroBasket: finished 9th among 12 teams\n\nHervé Dubuisson, Richard Dacoury, Stéphane Ostrowski, Frederic Hufnagel, Valéry Demory, Jean-Luc Deganis, Eric Beugnot, Georges Vestris, Patrick Cham, Jean-Frederic Monetti, Pierre Bressant, Jean-Louis Hersin (Coach: Jean Galle)\n\n1988 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1989 EuroBasket: finished 6th among 8 teams\n\nHervé Dubuisson, Richard Dacoury, Stéphane Ostrowski, Jim Bilba, Frederic Hufnagel, Greg Beugnot, Franck Butter, Georges Vestris, Stephane Lauvergne, Stanley Jackson, Eric Occansey, Patrick Cham (Coach: Francis Jordane)\n\n1990 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1991 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 8 teams\n\nAntoine Rigaudeau, Richard Dacoury, Philip Szanyiel, Jim Bilba, Stéphane Ostrowski, Hugues Occansey, Didier Gadou, Frederic Forte, Valéry Demory, Georges Adams, Felix Courtinard, Jim Deines (Coach: Francis Jordane)\n\n1992 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1993 EuroBasket: finished 7th among 16 teams\n\nAntoine Rigaudeau, Yann Bonato, Stéphane Ostrowski, Jim Bilba, Thierry Gadou, Frederic Forte, Georges Adams, Olivier Allinei, Christophe Soule, Stéphane Risacher, Bruno Coqueran, Felix Courtinard, Jean-Baptiste Elicot (Coach: Francis Jordane)\n\n1994 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1995 EuroBasket: finished 8th among 14 teams\n\nAntoine Rigaudeau, Yann Bonato, Jim Bilba, Stéphane Ostrowski, Hugues Occansey, Thierry Gadou, Didier Gadou, Frederic Forte, Moustapha Sonko, Bruno Hamm, Franck Butter, Frederic Domon (Coach: Michel Gomez)\n\n1996 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n1997 EuroBasket: finished 10th among 16 teams\n\nYann Bonato, Laurent Sciarra, Frédéric Fauthoux, Laurent Foirest, Stéphane Risacher, Thierry Gadou, Georges Adams, Laurent Pluvy, Fabien Dubos, Cyril Julian, Remi Rippert, Jérôme Moïso (Coach: Jean-Pierre de Vincenzi)\n\n1998 World Championship: did not participate\n\n1999 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 16 teams\n\nTariq Abdul-Wahad, Antoine Rigaudeau, Alain Digbeu, Jim Bilba, Ronnie Smith, Moustapha Sonko, Stéphane Risacher, Frédéric Weis, Laurent Foirest, Laurent Sciarra, Thierry Gadou, Cyril Julian (Coach: Jean-Pierre de Vincenzi)\n\n2000 Olympic Games: finished 2nd among 12 teams\n\nAntoine Rigaudeau, Yann Bonato, Jim Bilba, Stéphane Risacher, Moustapha Sonko, Frédéric Weis, Cyril Julian, Laurent Sciarra, Laurent Foirest, Thierry Gadou, Crawford Palmer, Makan Dioumassi (Coach: Jean-Pierre de Vincenzi)\n\n2001 EuroBasket: finished 6th among 16 teams\n\nTony Parker, Alain Digbeu, Jim Bilba, Stéphane Risacher, Vasco Evtimov, Frédéric Weis, Cyril Julian, Laurent Sciarra, Laurent Foirest, Crawford Palmer, Eric Micoud, Makan Dioumassi (Coach: Alain Weisz)\n\n2002 World Championship: did not participate\n\n2003 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 16 teams\n\nTony Parker, Tariq Abdul-Wahad, Boris Diaw, Florent Piétrus, Ronny Turiaf, Moustapha Sonko, Jérôme Moïso, Cyril Julian, Alain Digbeu, Laurent Foirest, Thierry Rupert, Makan Dioumassi (Coach: Alain Weisz)\n\n2004 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n2005 EuroBasket: finished 3rd among 16 teams\n\nTony Parker, Boris Diaw, Antoine Rigaudeau, Mickaël Piétrus, Mickaël Gelabale, Florent Piétrus, Cyril Julian, Frédéric Weis, Frédéric Fauthoux, Mamoutou Diarra, Sacha Giffa, Jerome Schmitt (Coach: Claude Bergeaud)\n\n2006 World Championship: finished 5th among 24 teams\n\nBoris Diaw, Florent Piétrus, Mickaël Piétrus, Ronny Turiaf, Mickaël Gelabale, Aymeric Jeanneau, Mamoutou Diarra, Laurent Foirest, Frédéric Weis, Johan Petro, Yannick Bokolo, Joseph Gomis (Coach: Claude Bergeaud)\n\n2007 EuroBasket: finished 8th among 16 teams\n\nTony Parker, Boris Diaw, Tariq Kirksay, Ronny Turiaf, Yakhouba Diawara, Florent Piétrus, Frédéric Weis, Joseph Gomis, Yohann Sangare, Sacha Giffa, Pape Badiane, Cédric Ferchaud (Coach: Claude Bergeaud)\n\n2008 Olympic Games: did not participate\n\n2009 EuroBasket: finished 5th among 16 teams\n\nTony Parker, Boris Diaw, Nicolas Batum, Ronny Turiaf, Florent Piétrus, Ali Traore, Antoine Diot, Yannick Bokolo, Alain Koffi, Nando de Colo, Aymeric Jeanneau, Ian Mahinmi (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2010 World Championship: finished 13th among 24 teams\n\nNicolas Batum, Boris Diaw, Florent Piétrus, Nando de Colo, Ali Traore, Mickaël Gelabale, Yannick Bokolo, Ian Mahinmi, Alain Koffi, Andrew Albicy, Edwin Jackson, Fabien Causeur (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2011 EuroBasket: finished 2nd among 24 teams\n\nTony Parker, Nicolas Batum, Boris Diaw, Florent Piétrus, Nando de Colo, Ali Traore, Mickaël Gelabale, Joakim Noah, Kevin Seraphin, Charles Kahudi, Andrew Albicy, Steed Tchicamboud (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2012 Olympic Games: finished 6th among 12 teams\n\nKevin Seraphin, Nicolas Batum, Fabien Causeur, Yakhouba Diawara, Ali Traore, Tony Parker, Yannick Bokolo, Florent Piétrus, Nando de Colo, Boris Diaw, Ronny Turiaf, Mickaël Gelabale (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2013 EuroBasket: finished 1st among 24 teams\n\nJoffrey Lauvergne, Nicolas Batum, Antoine Diot, Johan Petro, Charles Lombahe-Kahudi, Tony Parker, Thomas Heurtel, Florent Piétrus, Nando de Colo, Boris Diaw, Alexis Ajinça, Mickaël Gelabale (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2014 World Cup: finished 3rd among 24 teams\n\nThomas Heurtel, Nicolas Batum, Antoine Diot, Joffrey Lauvergne, Charles Lombahe-Kahudi, Edwin Jackson, Evan Fournier, Florent Piétrus, Rudy Gobert, Boris Diaw, Kim Tillie, Mickaël Gelabale (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2015 EuroBasket: finished 3rd among 24 teams\n\nLéo Westermann, Nicolas Batum, Joffrey Lauvergne, Charles Lombahe-Kahudi, Tony Parker, Evan Fournier, Florent Piétrus, Nando de Colo, Boris Diaw, Mickaël Gelabale, Rudy Gobert, Mouhammadou Jaiteh (Coach: Vincent Collet) \n\n2016 Olympic Games: finished 6th among 12 teams\n\nThomas Heurtel, Nicolas Batum, Antoine Diot, Joffrey Lauvergne, Charles Lombahe-Kahudi, Tony Parker, Florent Piétrus, Nando de Colo, Boris Diaw, Mickaël Gelabale, Rudy Gobert, Kim Tillie (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2017 EuroBasket: finished 12th among 24 teams\n\nKevin Séraphin, Thomas Heurtel, Antoine Diot, Joffrey Lauvergne, Evan Fournier, Nando de Colo, Boris Diaw, Léo Westermann, Vincent Poirier, Louis Labeyrie, Axel Toupane, Edwin Jackson (Coach: Vincent Collet)\n\n2019 World Cup: finished 3rd among 32 teams\n\nFrance's matches are currently televised by Canal+.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2013, France's kit was supplied by Nike. Between 2014 and 2017, France’s kit was supplied by Adidas. From 2017 onwards, France's kit has been supplied by Jordan Brand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849805", "title": "Francis Englefield", "text": "Francis Englefield\n\nSir Francis Englefield (c. 1522 – 1596) was an English courtier and Roman Catholic exile.\n\nFrancis Englefield, born about 1522, was the eldest son of Thomas Englefield (1488–1537) of Englefield, Berkshire, Justice of the Common Pleas, and Elizabeth Throckmorton (died 1543), sister of Sir George Throckmorton (died 1552), and daughter of Sir Robert Throckmorton (died 1518) of the well-known Catholic family of Coughton Court in Warwickshire. His grandfather, Sir Thomas Englefield (1455–1514), was an adviser to Henry VIII during the King's youth, and Speaker of the House of Commons in 1497 and 1510.\n\nEnglefield had a brother, John Englefield (died 1567), who married Margaret Fitton, the daughter of Sir Edward Fitton (d.1547/8) of Gawsworth and his wife, Mary Harbottle (died 1557), and three sisters, Margaret Englefield (died 1563), who married firstly, George Carew (died 1538), and secondly, Sir Edward Saunders (1506–1576), Chief Baron of the Exchequer; Anne Englefield, who married Humphrey Coningsby (1515–1569); and Susan Englefield, who married Humphrey Barnes.\n\nFrancis, who succeeded his father in 1537, was too young to have taken any part in the opposition to the abolition of the Roman jurisdiction and dissolution of the monasteries; and he acquiesced in these measures to the extent of taking the oath of royal supremacy, serving as High Sheriff of Berkshire and Oxfordshire in 1546–1547. In 1545 he purchased the manor of Tilehurst, which had belonged to Reading Abbey. He was knighted at the coronation of Edward VI of England in February 1547.\n\nBut the progress of the Reformation during that reign alienated him, and he became a member of the household of Princess Mary in 1549. In August of that year he was sent to the Tower for permitting Mass to be celebrated in Mary's household. He was released in the following March, and permitted to resume his duties in Mary's service. But in February 1553 he was again summoned before the privy council, and may have been in confinement at the crisis of July; perhaps he was only released on Marys triumph, for his name does not appear among those who exerted themselves on her behalf before the middle of August.\n\nHe was then sworn a member of the privy council like many others who owed their promotion to their loyalty rather than to their political abilities. Their numbers swelled the privy council and sadly impaired its efficiency; but Mary resisted the various attempts to get rid of them because she liked staunch friends, and regarded them as a salutary check upon the abler but less scrupulous members who had served Edward VI as well as herself. Englefield sat as M.P. for Berkshire in all Mary's parliaments except that of April 1554, but received no higher political office than the lucrative mastership of the court of wards.\n\nHe was an ardent supporter of the Marian persecutions, was present at Hooper's trial, sought Ascham's ruin, and naturally lost his office and his seat on the privy council at Elizabeth's succession. He retired to the continent before May 1559, and lived in exile for the remainder of his life. \n\nEnglefleld lived first at Rome, then in the Low Countries, and finally at Valladolid. He was blind for the last twenty years of his life, and received a pension of six hundred crowns from Philip. He had been outlawed in 1564 and his estates sequestered, but his correspondence with the pope and the King of Spain on behalf of Mary Queen of Scots brought an act of attainder against Englefield in 1585. Even then some legal difficulties stood in the way of their appropriation by the crown, for Englefield, obviously with an eye to this contingency, had conditionally settled them on his nephew, Francis Englefield (c. 1561 – 26 October 1631). The long arguments on the point are given in Cokes Reports, and a further Act of Parliament was passed in 1592 confirming the forfeiture to the crown (35 Eliz. I. c. 5). The nephew, however, eventually recovered some of the family estates, and was created a baronet in 1612. His uncle was alive in September 1596, but apparently died at Valladolid about the end of that year. His tomb there used to be shown to visitors as that of an eminent man.\n\nEnglefield's nephew, namesake and heir, Sir Francis Englefield (c. 1561 – 26 October 1631), 1st Baronet Englefield, married Jane Browne, the daughter of Anthony Browne (22 July 1552 – 29 June 1592), and Mary Dormer, the daughter of Sir William Dormer (died 1575). Jane Browne was the niece of Mary Wriothesley, Countess of Southampton (22 July 1552 – 4 November 1607), and the granddaughter of Anthony Browne, 1st Viscount Montague (died 19 October 1592) by his first wife, Jane Radcliffe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849808", "title": "Washington Catholic Athletic Conference", "text": "Washington Catholic Athletic Conference\n\nThe Washington Catholic Athletic Conference (WCAC) is a major high school athletic league for boys, girls, and co-ed Catholic high schools of the Archdiocese of Washington & Diocese of Arlington Schools located in the Washington Metropolitan Area. The WCAC is regarded as one of the best boys and girls basketball and football conference in the nation, with at least 1 team nationally ranked by USA Today every year. The WCAC also has at least one very strong team in all other sports.\n\nThe conference is known for its nationally renowned Basketball, Football, Lacrosse, Track and Field, Wrestling, Soccer, and Baseball programs.It has produced numerous professional athletes in the NFL, NBA, MLS, MLB and MLL.\n\nHoly Cross and Elizabeth Seton are girls only, while Gonzaga, DeMatha and the Heights are all boys.\n\nThe WCAC sponsors competitions in the following sports:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nArchbishop Carroll\n\nBishop Ireton\n\nBishop McNamara\n\nBishop O'Connell\n\nDeMatha\nBill Hamid, Current MLS player, member of USMNT\nGonzaga\n\nGood Counsel\n\nPaul VI\n\nSt. John's\n"}
{"id": "1849809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849809", "title": "Codswallop", "text": "Codswallop\n"}
{"id": "1849824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849824", "title": "Myxobolus cerebralis", "text": "Myxobolus cerebralis\n\nMyxobolus cerebralis is a myxosporean parasite of salmonids (salmon, trout, and their allies) that causes whirling disease in farmed salmon and trout and also in wild fish populations. It was first described in rainbow trout in Germany a century ago, but its range has spread and it has appeared in most of Europe (including Russia), the United States, South Africa, Canada and other countries. In the 1980s, \"M. cerebralis\" was found to require a tubificid oligochaete (a kind of segmented worm) to complete its life cycle. The parasite infects its hosts with its cells after piercing them with polar filaments ejected from nematocyst-like capsules.\n\nWhirling disease afflicts juvenile fish (fingerlings and fry) and causes skeletal deformation and neurological damage. Fish \"whirl\" forward in an awkward, corkscrew-like pattern instead of swimming normally, find feeding difficult, and are more vulnerable to predators. The mortality rate is high for fingerlings, up to 90% of infected populations, and those that do survive are deformed by the parasites residing in their cartilage and bone. They act as a reservoir for the parasite, which is released into water following the fish's death. \"M. cerebralis\" is one of the most economically important myxozoans in fish, as well as one of the most pathogenic. It was the first myxosporean whose pathology and symptoms were described scientifically. The parasite is not transmissible to humans.\n\nThe taxonomy and naming of both \"M. cerebralis\", and of myxozoans in general, have complicated histories. It was originally thought to infect fish brains (hence the specific epithet \"cerebralis\") and nervous systems, though it soon was found to primarily infect cartilage and skeletal tissue. Attempts to change the name to \"Myxobolus chondrophagus\", which would more accurately describe the organism, failed because of nomenclature rules. Later, the organisms previously called \"Triactinomyxon dubium\" and \"T. gyrosalmo\" (class Actinosporea) were found to be, in fact, triactinomyxon stages of \"M. cerebralis\", the life cycle of which was expanded to include the triactinomyxon stage. Similarly, other actinosporeans were folded into the life cycles of various myxosporeans.\n\nToday, the myxozoans, previously thought to be multicellular protozoans, are considered animals by most scientists, though their status has not officially changed. Recent molecular studies suggest they are related to Bilateria or Cnidaria, with Cnidaria being closer morphologically because both groups have extrusive filaments. Bilateria were somewhat closer in some genetic studies, but those were found to have used samples that were contaminated by material from the host organism, and a 2015 study confirms they are cnidarians.\n\n\"M. cerebralis\" has many diverse stages ranging from single cells to relatively large spores, not all of which have been studied in detail.\n\nThe stages that infect fish, called triactinomyxon spores, are made of a single style that is about 150 micrometers (µm) long and three processes or \"tails\", each about 200 micrometers long. A sporoplasm packet at the end of the style contains 64 germ cells surrounded by a cellular envelope. There are also three polar capsules, each of which contains a coiled polar filament between 170 and 180 µm long. Polar filaments in both this stage and in the myxospore stage (see picture above) rapidly shoot into the body of the host, creating an opening through which the sporoplasm can enter.\n\nUpon contact with fish hosts and firing of the polar capsules, the sporoplasm contained within the central style of the triactinomyxon migrates into the epithelium or gut lining. Firstly, this sporoplasm undergoes mitosis to produce more amoeboid cells, which migrate into deeper tissue layers, to reach the cerebral cartilage.\n\nMyxospores, which develop from sporogonic cell stages inside fish hosts, are lenticular. They have a diameter of about 10 micrometers and are made of six cells. Two of these cells form polar capsules, two merge to form a binucleate sporoplasm, and two form protective valves. Myxospores are infective to oligochaetes, and are found among the remains of digested fish cartilage. They are often difficult to distinguish from related species because of morphological similarities across genera. Though \"M. cerebralis\" is the only myxosporean ever found in salmonid cartilage, other visually similar species may be present in the skin, nervous system, or muscle.\n\n\"Myxobolus cerebralis\" has a two-host life cycle involving a salmonid fish and a tubificid oligochaete. So far, the only worm known to be susceptible to \"M. cerebralis\" infection is \"Tubifex tubifex\", though what scientists currently call \"T. tubifex\" may in fact be more than one species. First, myxospores are ingested by tubificid worms. In the gut lumen of the worm, the spores extrude their polar capsules and attach to the gut epithelium by polar filaments. The shell valves then open along the suture line and the binucleate germ cell penetrates between the intestinal epithelial cells of the worm. This cell multiplies, producing many amoeboid cells by an asexual cell fission process called merogony. As a result of the multiplication process, the intercellular space of the epithelial cells in more than 10 neighbouring worm segments may become infected.\n\nAround 60–90 days postinfection, sexual cell stages of the parasite undergo sporogenesis, and develop into pansporocysts, each of which contains eight triactinomyxon-stage spores. These spores are released from the oligochaete anus into the water. Alternatively, a fish can become infected by eating an infected oligochaete. Infected tubificids can release triactinomyxons for at least a year. The triactinomyxon spores are carried by the water currents, where they can infect a salmonid through the skin. Penetration of the fish by these spores takes only a few seconds. Within five minutes, a sac of germ cells called a sporoplasm has entered the fish epidermis, and within a few hours, the sporoplasm splits into individual cells that will spread through the fish.\n\nWithin the fish, both intracellular and extracellular stages reproduce in its cartilage by asexual endogeny, meaning new cells grow from within old cells. The final stage within the fish is the creation of the myxospore, which is formed by sporogony. They are released into the environment when the fish decomposes or is eaten. Some recent research indicates some fish may expel viable myxospores while still alive.\n\nMyxospores are extremely tough: \"it was shown that \"Myxobolus cerebralis\" spores can tolerate freezing at −20°C for at least 3 months, aging in mud at 13°C for at least 5 months, and passage through the guts of northern pike \"Esox lucius\" or mallards \"Anas platyrhynchos\" without loss of infectivity\" to worms. Triactinomyxons are much shorter-lived, surviving 34 days or less, depending on temperature.\n\n\"M. cerebralis\" infections have been reported from a wide range of salmonid species: eight species of \"Atlantic\" salmonids, \"Salmo\"; four species of \"Pacific\" salmonids, \"Oncorhynchus\"; four species of char, \"Salvelinus\"; the grayling, \"Thymallus thymallus\"; and the huchen, \"Hucho hucho\". \"M. cerebralis\" causes damage to its fish hosts through attachment of triactinomyxon spores and the migrations of various stages through tissues and along nerves, as well as by digesting cartilage. The fish's tail may darken, but aside from lesions on cartilage, internal organs generally appear healthy. Other symptoms include skeletal deformities and \"whirling\" behavior (tail-chasing) in young fish, which was thought to have been caused by a loss of equilibrium, but is actually caused by damage to the spinal cord and lower brain stem. Experiments have shown that fish can kill \"Myxobolus\" in their skin (possibly using antibodies), but that the fish do not attack the parasites once they have migrated to the central nervous system. This response varies from species to species.\n\nIn \"T. tubifex\", the release of triactinomyxon spores from the intestinal wall damages the worm's mucosa; this may happen thousands of times in a single worm, and is believed to impair nutrient absorption. Spores are released from the worm almost exclusively when the temperature is between 10 °C and 15 °C, so fish in warmer or cooler waters are less likely to be infected, and infection rates vary seasonally.\n\nFish size, age, concentration of triactinomyxon spores, and water temperature all affect infection rates in fish, as does the species of the fish in question. The disease has the most impact on fish less than five months old because their skeletons have not ossified. This makes young fish more susceptible to deformities and provides \"M. cerebralis\" more cartilage on which to feed. In one study of seven species of many strains, brook trout and rainbow trout (except one strain) were far more heavily affected by \"M. cerebralis\" after two hours of exposure than other species were, while bull trout, Chinook salmon, brown trout, and Arctic grayling were least severely affected. While brown trout may harbor the parasite, they typically do not show any symptoms, and this species may have been \"M. cerebralis\"' original host. This lack of symptoms in brown trout meant that the parasite was only discovered after nonnative rainbow trouts were introduced in Europe.\n\nModerate or heavy clinical infection of fish with whirling disease can be presumptively diagnosed on the basis of changes in behavior and appearance about 35 to 80 days after initial infection, though \"injury or deficiency in dietary tryptophan and ascorbic acid can evoke similar signs\", so conclusive diagnosis may require finding myxospores in the fish's cartilage. In heavy infections, only examining cartilage microscopically may be needed to find spores. In less severe infections, the most common test involves digestion of the cranial cartilage with the proteases pepsin and trypsin (pepsin-trypsin digest—PTD) before looking for spores. The head and other tissues can be further examined using histopathology to confirm whether the location and morphology of the spores matches what is known for \"M. cerebralis\". Serological identification of spores in tissue sections using an antibody raised against the spores is also possible. Parasite identity can also be confirmed using the polymerase chain reaction to amplify the 415 base pair 18S rRNA gene from \"M. cerebralis\". Fish should be screened at the life stage most susceptible to the parasites, with particular focus on fish in aquaculture units.\n\nAlthough originally a mild pathogen of \"Salmo trutta\" in central Europe and other salmonids in northeast Asia, the introduction of the rainbow trout (\"Oncorhynchus mykiss\") has greatly increased the impact of this parasite. Having no innate immunity to \"M. cerebralis\", rainbow trout are particularly susceptible, and can release so many spores that even more resistant species in the same area, such as \"S. trutta\", can become overloaded with parasites and incur 80%–90% mortalities. Where \"M. cerebralis\" has become well-established, it has caused decline or even elimination of whole cohorts of fish.\n\nThe impact of \"M. cerebralis\" in Europe is somewhat lessened because the species is endemic to this region, giving native fish stocks a degree of immunity. Rainbow trout, the most susceptible species to this parasite, are not native to Europe; successfully reproducing feral populations are rare, so few wild rainbow trout are young enough to be susceptible to infection. On the other hand, they are widely reared for restocking sport-fishing waters and for aquaculture, where this parasite has its greatest impact. Hatching and rearing methods designed to prevent infection of rainbow trout fry have proved successful in Europe. These techniques include hatching eggs in spore-free water and rearing fry to the \"ossification\" stage in tanks or raceways. These methods give particular attention to the quality of water sources to guard against spore introduction during water exchanges. Fry are moved to earthen ponds only once they are considered to be clinically resistant to the parasite, after skeletal ossification occurs.\n\n\"M. cerebralis\" was first found in New Zealand in 1971. The parasite has only been found in rivers in the South Island, away from the most important aquaculture sites. Additionally, salmonid species commercially aquacultured in New Zealand have low susceptibility to whirling disease, and the parasite has also not been shown to affect native salmonids. An important indirect effect of the parasites presence is quarantine restriction placed on exports of salmon products to Australia.\n\n\"M. cerebralis\" was first recorded in North America in 1956 in Pennsylvania, having been introduced via infected trout imported from Europe, and has spread steadily south and westwards. Until the 1990s, whirling disease was considered a manageable problem affecting rainbow trout in hatcheries. However, it has recently become established in natural waters of the Rocky Mountain states (Colorado, Wyoming, Utah, Montana, Idaho, New Mexico), where it is causing heavy mortalities in several sportfishing rivers. Some streams in the western United States have lost 90% of their trout. In addition, whirling disease threatens recreational fishing, which is important for the tourism industry, a key component of the economies of some U.S. western states. For example, \"the Montana Whirling Disease Task Force estimated trout fishing generated US $300,000,000 in recreational expenditures in Montana alone\". Making matters worse, some of the fish species that \"M. cerebralis\" infects (bull trout, cutthroat trout, and steelhead) are already threatened or endangered, and the parasite could worsen their already precarious situations. For reasons that are poorly understood, but probably have to do with environmental conditions, the impact on infected fish has been greatest in Colorado and Montana, and least in California, Michigan, and New York.\n\nWhirling disease was first detected in fish in Johnson Lake in Banff National Park in May, 2016. CFIA Labs confirmed in August and Parks Canada announced the outbreak August 23, 2016. Although it was first discovered in Banff, it is not necessarily where the disease originated and spread. The Government of Alberta is currently sampling and testing fish in 6 different watersheds (Peace River, Athabasca, North Saskatchewan, Red Deer, Bow and Oldman) to see where the disease has spread. Initial sample fish were collected in 2016, and are currently being processed by the Government of Alberta and CFIA labs. Since testing began, it has been detected in the Upper Bow River, and in May 2017 it was confirmed that whirling disease had also been detected in the Oldman River Basin. The declaration does not mean that every susceptible finfish population within the Bow and Oldman River watersheds are infected with the disease.\n\nAs a result of the new declaration, a domestic movement permit will be required from the CFIA for susceptible species and end uses identified in the Domestic Movement Control Program, the vector \"Tubifex tubifex\", the disease causing agent \"Myxobolus cerebralis\", and/or related things out of the infected and buffer areas of Alberta. Recreational and sport fishing, including fishing led by a professional guide, will not require a CFIA permit.\n\nSome biologists have attempted to disarm triactinomyxon spores by making them fire prematurely. In the laboratory, only extreme acidity or basicity, moderate to high concentrations of salts, or electric current caused premature filament discharge; neurochemicals, cnidarian chemosensitizers, and trout mucus were ineffective, as were anesthetized or dead fish. If spores could be disarmed, they would be unable to infect fish, but further research is needed to find an effective treatment.\n\nSome strains of fish are more resistant than others, even within species; using resistant strains may help reduce the incidence and severity of whirling disease in aquaculture. There is also some circumstantial evidence that fish populations can develop resistance to the disease over time. Additionally, aquaculturists may avoid \"M. cerebralis\" infections by not using earthen ponds for raising young fish; this keeps them away from possibly infected tubificids and makes it easier to eliminate spores and oligochaetes through filtration, chlorination, and ultraviolet bombardment. To minimise tubificid populations, techniques include periodic disinfection of the hatchery or aquaculture ponds, and the rearing of small trout indoors in pathogen-free water. Smooth-faced concrete or plastic-lined raceways that are kept clean and free of contaminated water keep aquaculture facilities free of the disease.\n\nLastly, some drugs, such as furazolidone, furoxone, benomyl, fumagillin, proguanil and clamoxyquine, have been shown to impede spore development, which reduces infection rates. For example, one study showed that feeding fumagillin to \"O. mykiss\" reduced the number of infected fish from between 73% and 100% to between 10% and 20%. Unfortunately, this treatment is considered unsuitable for wild trout populations, and no drug treatment has ever been shown to be effective in the studies required for United States Food and Drug Administration approval.\n\nRecreational and sports fishers can help to prevent the spread of the parasite by not transporting fish from one body of water to another, not disposing of fish bones or entrails in any body of water, and ensuring boots and shoes are clean before moving between different bodies of water. Federal, state, provincial, and local regulations on the use of bait should be followed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849829", "title": "Cushing Island", "text": "Cushing Island\n\nCushing Island, or Cushing's Island, is a privately owned island in Casco Bay in the U.S. state of Maine. Part of the city of Portland, Maine, roughly 45 families live there seasonally. \n\nIn 1623-24 English explorer Christopher Levett built a blockhouse on the island, part of granted him by the English King. Levett left behind a group of settlers to carry on after he returned to England. But the naval captain and adventurer never returned, and the fate of the men is unknown. After Levett's occupation the island was known as Andrews Island. Levett's early settlement earned him the sobriquet \"the pioneer colonist in Casco Bay\" from eminent Maine historian James Phinney Baxter.\n\nAfter a host of owners, in September 1734, Nathaniel Jones conveyed the island to Joshua Bangs. The island was then known as 'Bangs Island'. The name 'Bangs Island' will be found on maps from the period. In the late 1750s Ezekiel Cushing obtained the island from Bangs. In 1760, Bangs regained the island. The island was later conveyed to Jedediah Preble, Joshua Bangs' son-in-law after Bangs' death. Simeon Skillings, a relation of Preble's later lived on the island and purchased small parts of the land. Lemuel Cushing, a fourth cousin of Ezekiel Cushing purchased most of the island in 1859. Cushing then consolidated the holdings of the Preble's and the Skilling's, becoming the sole owner of the island. Born in Quebec, Canada, to Massachusetts emigrants, Lemuel Cushing planned to turn the island into a summer resort and built the Ottawa House hotel. Lemuel's son Francis Cushing formed the Cushing's Island Company in 1883 and hired Frederick Law Olmsted the same year to develop the island as a planned 'summer colony'. Olmsted designed the landscape of the island, along with architect John Calvin Stevens.\n\nThe first Ottawa House was destroyed by fire and rebuilt in 1888. The second Ottawa House burned down in 1917 and was not rebuilt.\n\nThe United States Army began acquiring land on the island in the 1890s to build Fort Levett, named for explorer Christopher Levett, the English explorer and first settler of what is now Portland, which eventually grew to 200 acres (0.8 km²). (The island was initially known as Levett's Island, after the first English settler of Maine. Levett has been described by the eminent Maine historian James Phinney Baxter as \"the first owner of the soil of Portland.\") It was last used during World War II for coastal defense. That land was purchased by island residents in 1970. The island is now privately owned.\n\nFerry service is provided by the St Croix, which departs from Long Wharf in Portland and lands at the summer dock, also known as Civilian Dock. Access to the island is for private/owners use only.\n\nThe island has a US Coast Guard Cutter that bears its name, USCGC Cushing (WPB-1321), previously stationed in Mobile, AL and currently homeported in Atlantic Beach, North Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849838", "title": "Suceava (river)", "text": "Suceava (river)\n\nThe Suceava ( - \"Suchava\") is a river located in the north-east of Romania (Suceava County) and western Ukraine (Chernivtsi Oblast). It is a right tributary of the river Siret.\n\nIt rises from the Obcina Mestecăniș Mountains in Bukovina, near the border with Ukraine. The total length of the Suceava from its source to its confluence with the Siret 21 km south-east of the city of Suceava, near the village of Liteni, is . Its basin area is , of which in Romania.\n\nThe following towns and villages are situated along the river Suceava, from source to mouth: Izvoarele Sucevei, Shepit, Seliatyn, Ulma, Brodina, Vicovu de Jos, Bilca, Dornești, Satu Mare, Suceava, Verești.\n\nThe following rivers are tributaries to the river Suceava (from source to mouth):\n\nLeft: Aluniș, Izvor, Cobilioara, Garbanevski, Melesh, Rapochev, Rusca, Ulma, Sadău, Falcău, Caraula, Șicova, Bilca Mare, Petrimiasa, Târnauca, Climăuț, Ruda, Horaiț, Hatnuța, Pătrăuțeanca, Dragomirna, Mitoc, Podul Vătafului, Plopeni, Salcea\n\nRight: Pogonișoara, Nisipitu, Brodina, Pârâul Ascuns, Valea Boului, Putna, Vicov, Remezeu, Voitinel, Pozen, Sucevița, Solca, Soloneț, Ilișești, Șcheia, Râul Târgului, Udești, Racova\n\n"}
{"id": "1849842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849842", "title": "PP-93", "text": "PP-93\n\nThe PP-93 submachine gun was developed in the 1990s at the \"KBP Instrument Design Bureau\" in Tula as a non-folding version of earlier PP-90 clandestine submachine gun, for use by security and law enforcement units. It is operated on blowback principle and has good controllability of full automatic fire.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849843", "title": "Filigree", "text": "Filigree\n\nFiligree (also less commonly spelled \"filagree\", and formerly written \"filigrann\" or \"filigrene\") is a form of intricate metalwork. \nIt may span from delicate jewellery to cast iron railings and balustrades. \n\nIn jewellery, it is usually of gold and silver, made with tiny beads or twisted threads, or both in combination, soldered together or to the surface of an object of the same metal and arranged in artistic motifs. It often suggests lace and remains popular in Indian and other Asian metalwork. It was popular as well in Italian, French and Portuguese metalwork from 1660 to the late 19th century. It should not be confused with ajoure jewellery work, the ajoure technique consisting of drilling holes in objects made of sheet metal.\n\nThe English word filigree is shortened from the earlier use of \"filigreen\" which derives from Latin \"filum\" meaning thread and \"granum\" grain, in the sense of small bead. The Latin words gave \"filigrana\" in Italian which itself became \"filigrane\" in 17th-century French.\n\nThough filigree has become a special branch of jewellery in modern times, it was historically part of the ordinary work of the jeweler. Indeed, all the jewellery of the Etruscans and Greeks (other than that intended for the grave, and therefore of an unsubstantial character) was made by soldering together and so building up the gold rather than by chiselling or engraving the material.\n\nArchaeological finds in ancient Mesopotamia indicate that filigree was incorporated into jewellery since 3,000 BC. Specific to the city of Midyat in Mardin Province in upper Mesopotamia, a form of filigree using silver and gold wires, known as \"telkari\", was developed in the 15th Century. To this day, expert craftsmen in this region continue to produce fine pieces of telkari.\n\nThe Egyptian jewelers employed wire, both to lay down on a background and to plait or otherwise arranged jour. But, with the exception of chains, it cannot be said that filigree work was much practiced by them. Their strength lay rather in their cloisonné work and their molded ornaments. Many examples, however, remain of round plaited gold chains of fine wire, such as those that are still made by the filigree workers of India, and known as trichinopoly chains. From some of these are hung smaller chains of finer wire with minute fishes and other pendants fastened to them.\n\nIn ornaments derived from Phoenician sites, such as Cyprus and Sardinia, patterns of gold wire are laid down with great delicacy on a gold ground, but the art was advanced to its highest perfection in the Greek and Etruscan filigree of the 6th to the 3rd centuries BC. A number of earrings and other personal ornaments found in central Italy are preserved in the Louvre and in the British Museum. Almost all of them are made of filigree work. Some earrings are in the form of flowers of geometric design, bordered by one or more rims each made up of minute volutes of gold wire, and this kind of ornament is varied by slight differences in the way of disposing the number or arrangement of the volutes. But the feathers and petals of modern Italian filigree are not seen in these ancient designs. Instances occur, but only rarely, in which filigree devices in wire are self-supporting and not applied to metal plates.\n\nThe museum of the Hermitage at Saint Petersburg contains a large collection of Scythian jewellery from the tombs of the Crimea. Many bracelets and necklaces in that collection are made of twisted wire, some in as many as seven rows of plaiting, with clasps in the shape of heads of animals of beaten work. Others are strings of large beads of gold, decorated with volutes, knots and other patterns of wire soldered over the surfaces. In the British Museum a sceptre, probably that of a Greek priestess, is covered with plaited and netted gold wipe, finished with a sort of Corinthian capital and a boss of green glass.\n\nIt is probable that in India, Iran (in Zanjan, this handicraft is called \"malileh\") and various parts of central Asia filigree has been worked from the most remote period without any change in the designs. Whether the Asiatic jewellers were influenced by the Greeks who settled on that continent, or merely trained under traditions held in common with them, it is certain that the Indian filigree workers retain the same patterns as those of the ancient Greeks and work them in the same way, down to the present day. Wandering workmen are given so much gold, coined or rough, which is weighed, heated in a pan of charcoal, beaten into wire, and then worked in the courtyard or verandah of the employer's house according to the designs of the artist, who weighs the complete work on restoring it and is paid at a specified rate for his labour. Very fine grains or beads and spines of gold, scarcely thicker than coarse hair, projecting from plates of gold are methods of ornamentation still used.\n\nCuttack, of the eastern Indian state Odisha, features traditional filigree work Known as \"tarakasi\" in the Odia language, most filigree work revolves around images of deities, though due to lack of patronage and modern design ideas, it is a dying art. Also noted is silver filigree of Karimnagar in Telangana state.\n\nPassing to later times, there are in many collections of medieval jewel work reliquaries, covers for Gospel books, etc., made either in Constantinople from the 6th to the 12th centuries, or in monasteries in Europe, in which studied and imitated Byzantine goldsmiths' work. These objects, besides being enriched with precious stones, polished, but not cut into facets, and with enamels, are often decorated with filigree. Large surfaces of gold are sometimes covered with scrolls of filigree soldered on, and corner pieces of the borders of book covers, or the panels of reliquaries, are frequently made up of complicated pieces of plaited work alternating with spaces encrusted with enamel. Byzantine filigree work occasionally has small stones set amongst the curves or knots. Examples of such decoration can be seen in the Victoria and Albert, and British Museums. Examples include the Cross of Lothair in Aachen.\n\nIn the north of Europe, the Saxons, Britons and Celts were from an early period skillful in several kinds of goldsmiths' work. Admirable examples of filigree patterns laid down in wire on gold, from Anglo-Saxon tombs, may be seen in the British Museum, notably a brooch from Dover, and a sword-hilt from Cumberland. The Staffordshire Hoard of Anglo-Saxon gold and silver (estimated 700 CE) discovered in a field in Staffordshire, England, on 5 July 2009 contains numerous examples of very fine filigree described by archaeologist Kevin Leahy as \"incredible\".\n\nIrish filigree work of the Insular period is more thoughtful in design and more extremely varied in pattern. The Royal Irish Academy in Dublin contains a number of reliquaries and personal jewels, of which filigree is the general and most remarkable ornament. The Tara brooch has been copied and imitated, and the shape and decoration of it are well known. Instead of fine curls or volutes of gold thread, the Irish filigree is varied by numerous designs by which one thread can be traced through curious knots and complications, which, disposed over large surfaces, balance one another, but always with special varieties and arrangements difficult to trace with the eye. The long thread appears and disappears without breach of continuity, the two ends generally worked into the head and the tail of a serpent or a monster.\n\nThe reliquary containing the \"Bell of Saint Patrick\" is covered with knotted work in many varieties. A two-handled chalice, called the \"Ardagh Chalice\" found near Limerick in 1868, is ornamented with work of this kind of extraordinary fineness. Twelve plaques on a band round the body of the vase, plaques on each handle and round the foot of the vase have a series of different designs of characteristic patterns, in fine filigree wire work wrought on the front of the repoussé ground.\n\nMuch of the medieval jewel work all over Europe down to the 15th century, on reliquaries, crosses, croziers, and other ecclesiastical goldsmiths' work, is set off with bosses and borders of filigree. Filigree work in silver was practised by the Moors of Spain during the Middle Ages with great skill, and was introduced by them and established all over the Iberian Peninsula, hence it was carried to the Spanish colonies in America.\n\nThe manufacture spread over the Balearic Islands, and among the populations that border the Mediterranean. It is still made all over Italy, and in Portugal, Malta, North Macedonia, Albania, the Ionian Islands and many other parts of Greece. That of the Greeks is sometimes on a large scale, with several thicknesses of wires alternating with larger and smaller bosses and beads, sometimes set with turquoises, and mounted on convex plates, making rich ornamental headpieces, belts, and breast ornaments. Filigree silver buttons of wire-work and small bosses are worn by the peasants in most of the countries that produce this kind of jewellery.\n\nSilver filigree brooches and buttons are also made in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Little chains and pendants are added to much of this northern work.\n\nThe oldest filigree pieces discovered in the Iberian Peninsula date back to 2000–2500 BC, but its origin is not clear. These pieces possibly belonged to merchants and navigators originally from the Middle East and are not thought to have been produced in the region at that time. Filigree began to be produced in Portugal in the 8th century with the arrival of Arab migrants, who brought new patterns with them. With time, the peninsula began to produce different filigree patterns, but while in Spain the filigree jewellery-making tradition became less relevant, in Portugal it was perfected. After the 18th century, Portuguese Filigree already had its own distinctive imagery, motifs and shapes. Filigree from the 17th and 18th centuries became famous for their extraordinary complexity. Gold and silver filigree jewellery of delicate and artistic design is still made in considerable quantities throughout the country, particularly filigree hearts, which are iconic symbols of Portuguese jewellery-making.\n\nFiligree work was brought to Great Britain from Abyssinia after the Battle of Magdala: armguards, slippers, and cups, some of which are now in the Victoria and Albert Museum. They are made of thin plates of silver, over which the wirework is soldered. The filigree is subdivided by narrow borders of simple pattern, and the intervening spaces are made up of many patterns, some with grains set at intervals.\n\nThe art may be said to consist in curling, twisting and plaiting fine pliable threads of metal, and uniting them at their points of contact with each other, and with the ground, by means of flux such as borax, by the help of the blowpipe. When granulated motifs are desired, small beads are made traditionally by using precious metal wire or fine sheet to start with, which is cut up in small pieces mixed with flux and placed in the small holes of a pitted block of charcoal (or any other suitable refractory material) and are then melted with a blowpipe (or today with a blowtorch), after which the bits of wire curl up and take a natural spherical like shape to end up in minuscule grains which slightly differ one from the other. Small grains or beads of the same metals are often set in the eyes of volutes, on the junctions, or at intervals at which they will set off the wirework effectively. The more delicate work is generally protected by framework of stouter wire.\n\nBrooches, crosses, earrings, buttons and other personal ornaments of modern filigree are generally surrounded and subdivided by bands of square or flat metal, giving consistency to the filling up, which would not otherwise keep its proper shape.\n\nFiligree jewellery design, and its twisting and soldering techniques, have an application in other metal-work such as wrought iron hanging wall brackets and silertoned doors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849849", "title": "Morning Has Broken", "text": "Morning Has Broken\n\n\"Morning Has Broken\" is a Christian hymn first published in 1931. It has words by English author Eleanor Farjeon and was inspired by the village of Alfriston in East Sussex, then set to a traditional Scottish Gaelic tune, \"Bunessan\". It is often sung in children's services and in funeral services.\n\nEnglish pop musician and folk singer Cat Stevens included a version on his album \"Teaser and the Firecat\" (1971). The song became identified with Stevens due to the popularity of this recording. It reached number six on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, number one on the U.S. easy listening chart in 1972, and number four on the Canadian \"RPM\" magazine charts.\n\nThe hymn originally appeared in the second edition of \"Songs of Praise\" (published in 1931), to the tune \"Bunessan\", composed in the Scottish Islands. In \"Songs of Praise Discussed\", the editor, Percy Dearmer, explains that as there was need for a hymn to give thanks for each day, English poet and children's author Eleanor Farjeon had been \"asked to make a poem to fit the lovely Scottish tune.\" A slight variation on the original hymn, also written by Eleanor Farjeon, can be found in the form of a poem contributed to the anthology \"Children's Bells\", under Farjeon's new title, \"A Morning Song (For the First Day of Spring)\", published by Oxford University Press in 1957. The song is noted in time but with a feel.\n\nAfter appearing in Lachlan MacBean's \"Songs and Hymns of the Gael\", \"Bunessan\" was used in the \"Revised Church Hymnary\" (1927) and the Appendix (1936) to the \"Irish Church Hymnal\" (1919) paired with the nativity text, \"Child in the Manger\" by the Scottish poet Mary MacDonald (1789–1872), who lived on the Isle of Mull and was born there, near the village of Bunessan for which the tune is named. The tune is also used for James Quinn hymns, \"Christ Be Beside Me\" and \"This Day God Gives Me\", both of which were adapted from the traditional Irish hymn \"St. Patrick's Breastplate\". Michael Saward's hymn \"Baptized In Water\" also uses the tune.\n\nWriting credit for \"Morning Has Broken\" has occasionally been erroneously attributed to Cat Stevens, whose recording led to the song being known internationally. The piano arrangement on Stevens' recording was arranged and performed by Rick Wakeman, a classically trained keyboardist who joined the English progressive rock band Yes soon afterwards.\n\nWhen shaping \"Morning Has Broken\" for recording, Stevens started with the hymn, which took around 45 seconds to sing in its basic form. Producer Paul Samwell-Smith told him he could never put something like that on an album, and that it had to be at least three minutes, though an acoustic demo of an early Stevens version lasts almost three minutes. Prior to the actual recording Stevens heard Wakeman play something in the recording booth. It was a rough sketch of what would later become \"Catherine Howard\". Stevens told Wakeman that he liked it and wanted something similar as the opening section, the closing section and, if possible, a middle section as well. Wakeman told Stevens he could not as it was his piece destined for a solo album, but Stevens persuaded him to adapt his composition.\n\nIn 2000, Wakeman released an instrumental version of \"Morning Has Broken\" on an album of the same title. That same year he gave an interview on BBC Radio 5 Live in which he said he had agreed to perform on the Cat Stevens track for £10 and was \"shattered\" that he was omitted from the credits, adding that he never received the money either.\n\nOn his return to performance as Yusuf Islam, Stevens made a payment to Wakeman and apologized for the original non-payment, which he said arose from confusion and a misunderstanding on the record label's part. On a documentary aired on British television, Wakeman stated that he felt Stevens's version of \"Morning Has Broken\" was a very beautiful piece of music that had brought people closer to religious truth. He expressed satisfaction in having contributed to this. Wakeman included a 3:42 version on his 2017 album of piano arrangements, \"Piano Portraits\".\n\nThe Stevens arrangement changes keys back and forth four times. The first, second, and fourth verses of the song are played in C major, while the instrumental introduction, third verse, and the instrumental ending are played in D major.\n\nAlthough some sources report that the song was released on Floyd Cramer's album \"Last Date\" (1961), discographies of the artist demonstrate that the song is not on that album. In fact, Cramer did not record the song until 1972, when he used the arrangement that he attributed to Cat Stevens.\n\nThe song has been recorded by many other artists, including The New Seekers, Steven Curtis Chapman, Judy Collins, Michael Card, Floyd Cramer, Dana, Neil Diamond, Órla Fallon, Art Garfunkel, Ellen Greene, Esther Ofarim, Daliah Lavi, Joe Longthorne, Jojje Wadenius and Anni-Frid Lyngstad (2010), the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, Nana Mouskouri, Aaron Neville, Kenny Rogers and the First Edition, Joseph McManners, Sister Janet Mead, Mary O'Hara, Demis Roussos, Third Day, The Brilliance, Pam Tillis, Hayley Westenra, Roger Whittaker, 2nd Chapter of Acts, Libera (choir), Richard Souther and Dana Winner.\n\nIn November 2008, the \"Teaser and the Firecat\" album was re-issued in a deluxe CD version that includes the original demo of \"Morning Has Broken\".\n\nThe song has been translated or adapted into many languages, including German (\"Schön ist der Morgen\", performed by Nana Mouskouri among others), French (\"Matin brisé\", performed by on her 1972 album \"L'orage\"), and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849856", "title": "Grandia: Parallel Trippers", "text": "Grandia: Parallel Trippers\n\nThe game follows Yuuhi, a young boy living in Japan who is transported along with his friends Mizuki and Shirou to an alternate version of the \"Grandia\" world populated by characters from the original video game. Players must guide Yuuhi around numerous environments to re-unite with his friends and discover a way home.\n\n\"Grandia: Parallel Trippers\" is a traditional role-playing video game that is presented using two-dimensional graphics and character sprites and is presented using an overhead perspective. Players must guide the main character Yuuhi through a number of environments containing non-player characters, enemy monsters, traps, and puzzles that must be overcome in order to advance. Obstacles such as ledges and pits may be overcome by jumping, and other hindrances such as barricades and walls may be crossed using switches found in the area. The accompanying character Pinky, a rotund, flying creature with large ears, can also be used to manipulate objects from a distance. Treasure chests containing beneficial items such as healing herbs and equipment are scattered throughout each area, in addition to hidden items that must be found by searching certain objects. Like the original \"Grandia\", enemies in \"Parallel Trippers\" are visible on the map screen, and are only engaged when a player comes in contact with one.\n\nCombat in \"Parallel Trippers\" has been modified from the original game, yet still retains the Initiative Point Gauge (\"IP Gauge\") for determining the order of actions. Neither characters in the player's party nor enemy monsters move about the combat field, and are instead restricted to fixed positions observed from a first-person perspective. As a party member or enemy's turn approaches, a representative icon on the bottom of the screen moves along the IP Gauge to its end, the speed of which being determined by the particular character's \"speed\" rating. Once a character's icon has reached the end of the gauge, it becomes their turn to act, with all other activity halting until the player has selected their action. Players may choose to attack an enemy or use a magic-based attack by selecting an appropriate \"Synthesis Card\" from their inventory. Synthesis Cards may also be used in combination with each other to produce additional effects or unlock special magic attacks. As a player's party defeats enemies, they earn experience points that go toward gaining levels, making each character stronger. Throughout battles, players also collect data on enemy monsters, actions, and characters that are stored in the game's database accessible from the title screen.\n\n\"Grandia: Parallel Trippers\" was announced in July 2000 by its publisher Hudson Soft, who revealed that they, along with Game Arts, would be bringing the game to the Game Boy Color as the series' first handheld title. Game Arts president Hirokazu Miyazki explained that the game was created to make a \"Grandia\" that users could \"play anywhere\", and was designed under the philosophy that both new and veteran fans of the series could enjoy the title equally. Hudson Soft was personally chosen by Game Arts as the game's publisher due to their experience with handheld titles and enthusiasm in marketing the game to Japanese audiences. The game was first showcased at the 2000 Nintendo Space World expo the following August, and again at the 2000 Tokyo Game Show in September, where the game received its final release date. Following the game's release, Huson Soft launched its \"Grandia Nippo\" (lit. \"Grandia Daily\") website that featured fan art, interviews, and special downloads related to \"Parallel Trippers\" in order to increase enthusiasm for the game. The music for \"Parallel Trippers\" consists of downsampled versions of tracks from the original \"Grandia\", originally composed by Noriyuki Iwadare.\n\nJapanese response to \"Grandia: Parallel Trippers\" was mild, with \"Weekly Famitsu\" magazine granting the game a 24 out of 40 score. In a hands-on preview of the game, IGN found it to be a very generic role-playing title, remarking that \"While Grandia didn't look or play poorly, there was nothing here that differentiated itself from all the rest of the big-headed, overhead, 2D RPGs that were on the Game Boy Color\". The website additionally felt that \"Parallel Trippers\" was too loosely associated with the original, adding that it was \"really only Grandia in characters, since the game doesn't look a thing like the Grandia you've played on the 32-bit consoles.\"\n"}
{"id": "1849871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849871", "title": "Nuages gris", "text": "Nuages gris\n\nNuages gris (; French, lit. \"Grey Clouds\"), S.199 or Trübe Wolken, is a work for piano solo composed by Franz Liszt on August 24, 1881. It is one of Liszt's most haunting and at the same time one of his most experimental works, representing, according to Allen Forte, \"a high point in the experimental idiom with respect to expressive compositional procedure.\"'\n\nDeparting from his earlier virtuoso style, Liszt in his later years made several radical, compositional experiments, including \"Nuages gris\", \"Unstern\" S.208 and Bagatelle sans tonalité S.216. Yet it was only in the second half of the twentieth century that the significance of Liszt's late experimental works began to be appreciated. R. Larry Todd, for example, has noted that \"Arguably, Liszt was the first composer to establish the augmented triad as a truly independent sonority, to consider its implications for modern dissonance treatment, and to ponder its meaning for the future course of tonality. Liszt's accomplishments in these areas were considerable and support in no small way his position, in Busoni's phrase, as the 'master of freedom.' Scholars such as Humphrey Searle, Zoltán Harsányi, Bence Szabolcsi, Lajos Bárdos, and István Szelényi have contributed much to placing these works in the repertoire of today's pianists.\n\n\"Nuages gris\" is quite short and technically simple. According to Jim Samson, \"the most distinctive features of Liszt's late style are present in this short work—the avoidance of a conventional cadential structure, the importance of semitonal movement, the use of the augmented triad as the central harmonic unit and of parallelism as a principal means of progression.\" The harmonies are based on augmented triads while the melody line makes extensive reference to the Hungarian minor scale. The harmonies, which are very different from those found in his earlier works, give a very dark and almost morbid feel to the piece. Leonard Ratner has commented: \"The restless, unresolved dissonances of \"Nuages gris\" the isolated figures, the sense of alienation—these have a clear affinity with the somewhat later expressionism of the Viennese composers Mahler and Schoenberg... [\"Nuages gris\"] is a musical bellwether that indicated what was happening and what would happen in European music: sound, with the assistance of symmetry, would take over, harmony would be absorbed into color and lose its cadential function.\"\n\nClaude Debussy probably had \"Nuages gris\" in mind when he composed his own \"Nuages\". \nMauricio Kagel used \"Nuages gris\" in his \"Unguis incarnatus est\" (1972). in 1986, Heinz Holliger worked the piece out into \"Zwei Liszt-Transkriptionen\" for orchestra (together with \"Unstern!\"). A shocking scene at the morgue in Stanley Kubrick's last film\" Eyes Wide Shut\" is accompanied by \"Nuages gris\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1849872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849872", "title": "Juan Rivera", "text": "Juan Rivera\n\nJuan Rivera may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1849873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849873", "title": "WGLD", "text": "WGLD\n\nWGLD (1440 kHz) is a commercial AM radio station licensed to Manchester Township, Pennsylvania. The station is owned by Cumulus Media, Inc., through licensee Radio License Holding SRC LLC. It broadcasts a sports talk radio format as a CBS Sports Radio Network affiliate. \n\nWGLD's broadcast tower is located near York at (). The station's programming is also available to listeners with an HD Radio receiver via a simulcast on the HD4 subchannel of FM sister station 96.1 WSOX.\n\nWGCB was first licensed on December 8, 1950. It originally was licensed to Red Lion, Pennsylvania. It broadcast a Christian radio format and was owned by Red Lion Broadcasting. \n\nJohn Harden Norris was the station's first manager. In 1964, Norris went on a 15-minute diatribe against journalist Fred Cook. Cook, under Fairness Doctrine rules, requested a chance to rebut, and Norris refused, claiming the doctrine to be unconstitutional. A lawsuit ensued, which Cook won.\n\nCumulus Media took control of the station after its purchase of Susquehanna Radio Corporation in 2006. Following the purchase, Cumulus renamed the corporation Radio License Holding SRC, LLC.\n"}
{"id": "1849878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849878", "title": "Father's Day (Doctor Who)", "text": "Father's Day (Doctor Who)\n\n\"Father's Day\" is the eighth episode of the first series of the British science fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\", first broadcast on 14 May 2005 on BBC One. It was written by Paul Cornell and directed by Joe Ahearne. It was one of three Doctor Who episodes that year to be nominated for the 2006 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form.\n\nIn the episode, alien time traveller the Doctor (Christopher Eccleston) agrees to take his companion Rose Tyler (Billie Piper) back to the day her father Pete (Shaun Dingwall) died in 1987. When Rose intervenes and pulls her father out of the path of a car, time is wounded and dangerous Reapers attack, threatening to erase history. Pete eventually realises that to get rid of the Reapers, he must throw himself under the car that was originally meant to kill him.\n\nLead writer and executive producer Russell T Davies conceived \"Father's Day\" as an emotionally driven time travel story to explore Rose's character. He chose Cornell to write the episode; Cornell had written spin-off material during the years the programme was on hiatus. The monster element of the story was expanded based on suggestions from Cornell and BBC Head of Drama Jane Tranter, and the Reapers went through many designs. The episode was filmed in November 2004 at St Paul's Church and streets in Cardiff. \"Father's Day\" was watched by 8.06 million viewers in the United Kingdom and received generally positive reviews. Critics praised the focus on character and emotion.\n\nThe episode begins with a flashback, in which Rose's mother, Jackie, tells a young Rose about her father, Pete, who was killed in a hit-and-run accident while on the way to a friend's wedding in 1987. She tells her daughter that he died alone.\n\nThe Ninth Doctor takes Rose to the day Pete died so that he is not alone when he dies. Upon their arrival in London in 1987, they witness the accident, but Rose is unable to go to comfort Pete. Going back to try again, Rose suddenly runs out and pushes Pete aside, saving his life. The younger versions of the Doctor and Rose vanish. Rose and the Doctor fight about her actions, with the Doctor rebuking her for potentially damaging the timeline. Rose decides to go with Pete to his friend's wedding, while the Doctor walks back to the TARDIS only to find that it is now an empty shell. Strange flying beasts called Reapers appear and begin consuming people.\n\nRose and Pete drive to the wedding together, and the car that was meant to kill Pete appears and nearly collides with their car. A Reaper attacks the wedding guests, including Jackie and an infant Rose. The Doctor runs to the church and directs everyone inside, noting that the age of the church will protect them against the Reapers. The Doctor explains to Rose that her actions have caused a paradox the Reapers are fixing by consuming everyone within it. Feeling that his TARDIS key is still warm, the Doctor sets it up in the middle of the church and the TARDIS slowly begins materialising around it.\n\nPete realises that Rose is his and Jackie's daughter, and when Rose is unable to answer questions about how good a father he was, Pete realises he was meant to die in the accident. Jackie thinks Rose is Pete's daughter with another woman. In a fit of frustration Pete hands the baby Rose to adult Rose. The paradox worsens, and a Reaper is able to enter the church. The Doctor declares himself the oldest thing in the church and offers himself to the Reaper, which consumes him and disappears. The TARDIS key goes cold and drops to the ground.\n\nPete realises that he must die in order to restore the timeline. He runs in front of the car that was originally meant to kill him; it had continued to appear and disappear on the road just outside the church. After Pete is hit by the car and fatally injured, the timeline is repaired, and the Reapers' victims including the Doctor reappear. The Doctor sends Rose to be with Pete, and she holds his hand until he dies.\n\n\"The Lamb and Flag\", a pub from the sitcom \"Bottom\", is referenced in the episode. It also features the 2002 song \"Don't Mug Yourself\" by The Streets, indicating the damage to the timeline. Rose believes Pete to be \"a bit of a Del Boy\", referring to the character from 1980s comedy \"Only Fools and Horses\". The 1987 song \"Never Gonna Give You Up\" by Rick Astley and the 1987 The Communards cover of the 1971 song \"Never Can Say Goodbye\" also feature in the episode.\n\nAccording to producer Phil Collinson, showrunner Russell T Davies came up with the concept for \"Father's Day\" at an early stage in the planning of the series, as it was a \"perfect time travel story\". Davies wanted the storyline to be easy to follow and drawn from human emotions. Additionally, the previous seven episodes had established why Rose was a good companion, and so \"Father's Day\" shows that she does make mistakes, but in a relatable way. Davies chose Paul Cornell to write the episode; Cornell had written \"Doctor Who\" spin-off material, especially in novels for the \"Virgin New Adventures\", which bridged the gap between the classic series and the new. Davies originally intended that the episode be a small budget-saver character piece investigating the death of Rose's father, but Cornell suggested the addition of the Reapers and BBC Head of Drama Jane Tranter encouraged the additions of monsters to the new series. Working titles for the episode included \"Wounded Time\" and \"Wound in Time\".\n\nDavies and Cornell debated whether it should have been Rose's plan all along to save her father; this is left ambiguous in the episode. Billie Piper felt that it did not occur to Rose until after she began travelling. In the original script, in the scene where the Doctor opens the TARDIS doors and discovers only a police box interior, the police box fell apart. This was changed for reasons of cost, and Cornell has stated that he thinks the change is an improvement. Cornell also states that the character of Pete Tyler is based on his own father, who attempted many different jobs and schemes (including, like Pete, selling health drinks) before eventually finding success running a betting shop. Pete's line \"I'm your dad, it's my job for it to be my fault\" is taken from something Cornell's father once said to him. Originally Pete was to take a swig of wine before sacrificing himself, but this was removed because a correlation between alcohol and bravery was not thought to be a positive message.\n\nThe entire episode was shot in Cardiff, in November 2004. The weather changed frequently during filming, and the cast began to fall ill; Eccleston had a cold. The production team selected several streets that looked similar. Most of the streets were in the community of Grangetown. The streets did not require much work for them to resemble 1980s streets; only a few satellite dishes were taken down. The church is St Paul's Church, also in Grangetown. The set of the Tylers' flat was redressed for the time period. For the 1980s style, members of the cast and crew brought in photographs of themselves from the 80s; for example, peach dresses and \"big hair\" were incorporated, but these elements were not meant to be distracting. Camille Coduri, who played Jackie, wore a wig for this episode. Some of the conversation between Rose and her father in the car was cut because the car had made the dialogue delivery too \"bouncy\". Piper was scared of holding the baby. Because the baby is present throughout the majority of the episode, but the number of hours they could work with the infant was limited, an \"artificial baby\" was used as a placeholder in some scenes.\n\nThe Reapers went through many designs. Originally, they were supposed to be \"men in cowls\" based on the Grim Reaper; the final design retains some of this image with its \"scythe-like tail\". The original design was deemed too similar to creatures seen in \"The End of the World\", and so were reworked into something more \"otherworldly\". They were not originally intended to fly. There was also discussion of how much they should resemble animals as opposed to the Grim Reaper; the end result is a mixture of the two approaches. The final design had a \"shark quality\", bat wings, and a mouth influenced by the praying mantis. Vulture sound effects were used for its screech. The model was made over two months, being finished at the end of February 2005 rather than at the beginning of January as scheduled. The special effects team then had two or three weeks to complete the \"40-odd shots\" of the completely CGI Reapers in the episode. The episode ended up being more expensive than intended because of the CGI.\n\nWhen time is damaged, one of the effects is that mobile telephones all begin to repeat the message, \"Watson, come here, I need you,\" purportedly Alexander Graham Bell's first words ever spoken over a telephone. However, historical records indicate the words to be \"Watson, come here, I want you.\" The error was not present in Paul Cornell's original script, but crept in at some point during production. Producer Phil Collinson speculated that it was because the line was rerecorded: it was originally recorded by someone who the production team felt put on too false a Scottish accent, and so it was rerecorded by a real Scot.\n\n\"Father's Day\" was first broadcast in the United Kingdom on 14 May 2005 on BBC One. The episode received UK overnight ratings of 7.47 million viewers, an audience share of 42.74%. When time-shifted viewers were taken into account, the number rose to 8.06 million. The episode received an Audience Appreciation Index score of 83.\n\n\"Father's Day\" was met with a generally positive reception. Piper stated that this was her favourite episode of the first series, and the most emotionally taxing for her to perform. \"SFX\" praised the way the concept of time was explored as well as the accurate representation of the '80s, and stated that Dingwall gave \"one of the series' best performances\" as Pete Tyler. However, the reviewer thought that the Reapers were the let-down of the episode, finding that \"the episode doesn't feel as much like horror as it should\". Arnold T Blumburg of \"Now Playing\" gave the episode an A for the emotional impact and the acting. Blumburg did note, however, that there were \"enormous logical gaps\" involving \"glowing TARDIS keys and under-explained paradoxes\". In 2013, \"Radio Times\" reviewer Mark Braxton described it as \"a time-travel tale with immense heart\" and highlighted the shift of identification from the Doctor to Rose and the acting of Piper and Dingwall. Braxton, on the other hand, felt that the Reapers were redundant and the episode would have done \"equally well if you scythed the Reapers from the script\". Reviewing \"Father's Day\" for \"The A.V. Club\" in 2013, Alasdair Wilkins gave it a grade of \"A\", finding the story powerful. In \"Who Is the Doctor\", a guide to the revived series, Robert Smith praised the emotion and the dilemma, which he felt was not heavy-handed. He was also positive about the direction and Dingwall's performance, though he felt that removing the Doctor from the plot suggested that he would have done something else to resolve it, and he was not a fan of the scene where the Doctor tells two ordinary people how important their lives are, because it was \"cheesy\" and \"disconnected\" from the rest of the story. Coauthor Graeme Burk was also positive, writing that it may be \"the best story this season\". He called the direction \"wonderful\" and the script \"sublime\", and noted how the story was more about family than time travel.\n\n\"Father's Day\" was nominated for the 2006 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form, alongside other first series episodes \"Dalek\" and \"The Empty Child\" / \"The Doctor Dances\". The latter won. \"Father's Day\" topped the third place category in terms of votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849889", "title": "Bruce Prichard", "text": "Bruce Prichard\n\nBruce Prichard (born March 7, 1963) is an American podcaster and professional wrestling booker, commentator, manager, and producer. As of February 2019, Prichard is employed by WWE, where he is a Senior Vice President and working as the Executive Director of \"SmackDown\". As a manager for the promotion, Prichard performed under the ring name Brother Love and served as the original manager of The Undertaker. During Prichard's run as Brother Love, he hosted his own segment, \"The Brother Love Show\" where he would usually support the heel wrestlers. After leaving WWE in 2008, Prichard served as the Senior Vice President of Programming and Talent Relations for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA, now Impact Wrestling).\n\nSince 2016, Prichard has co-hosted the \"Something to Wrestle with Bruce Prichard\" podcast with Conrad Thompson.\n\nPrichard began his career working for Paul Boesch out of Houston, Texas. At 10 years old, he sold posters with great success. At 12, he worked as a ring announcer and sometimes referee. Due to Boesch's working relationship with Bill Watts' Universal Wrestling Federation in the 1980s, Prichard would also act as ring announcer for some UWF shows.\n\nAfter Boesch sold his Houston territory to the WWF, Prichard would move there, initially as a color commentator for televised WWF events from the Houston area.\n\nAfter entering the World Wrestling Federation in 1987, he first occasionally worked as an announcer for the WWF's television programs alongside Mike McGuirk and \"The Duke of Dorchester\" Pete Doherty and occasionally Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, before creating the Brother Love character.\n\nIn June 1988, Prichard debuted as Brother Love, a red-faced, smarmy, dishonest, effusive and boisterous \"preacher\" character dressed in a conspicuous white suit, tight red shirt and white tie, who claimed to preach not the word of God, but \"the word of \"love\".\" He was best known for his disingenuous catchphrase \"I love you!\", during which he would enunciate each word for several seconds in a thick Southern accent. The character was inspired by controversial televangelists of the time, with Prichard specifically citing Robert Tilton as his most direct inspiration.\n\nIntroduced to the WWF by Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, Love hosted a segment on the World Wrestling Federation's syndicated and cable television programs called \"\"The Brother Love Show\"\", in which he would interview wrestlers. The segment debuted on the June 19, 1988 airing of \"Wrestling Challenge\", and would be \"promoted\" to the WWF's \"A-show,\" \"Superstars of Wrestling\", first appearing on the October 8, 1988 edition.\n\nThe segment was patterned largely after Piper's Pit, where Brother Love would berate face wrestlers (especially Hulk Hogan and the Ultimate Warrior) and openly support such heels as \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase and Bobby Heenan. It was explained that DiBiase was Brother Love's main \"benefactor.\" More than once, a wrestling feud was set up because of what occurred on \"The Brother Love Show\" (including Hulk Hogan's feuds vs. Big Boss Man (1988–1989) and Earthquake (1990), and the Jake Roberts-Rick Martel feud from late 1990 to early 1991). The Brother Love Show was also the setting for the unveiling of Ted DiBiase's Million Dollar Championship belt and Rick Martel's \"Arrogance\" cologne.\n\nBrother Love made his pay-per-view debut at the inaugural SummerSlam event in 1988 at Madison Square Garden when he interviewed face wrestler \"Hacksaw\" Jim Duggan. He later featured prominently in WrestleMania V in 1989 where Rowdy Roddy Piper in his first appearance in the WWF since his 'retirement\" after WrestleMania III, \"de-skirted\" Brother Love of his \"kilt\" after taking over \"Piper's Pit\". A year later, Sgt. Slaughter bestowed a medal upon Brother Love during SummerSlam for being the \"greatest American.\"\n\nOccasionally, Brother Love provided color commentary for the WWF's televised events; unlike during his early WWF run under his real name and using his natural voice (as Prichard), where he was pro-face, Brother Love was pro heel. His most famous assignment was alongside Sean Mooney for the WWF's televised event at Madison Square Garden on January 21, 1991, where he was roughed up by the Ultimate Warrior on his way to the ring to face \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage in a steel cage just two days after Savage had caused the Warrior to lose the WWF World Heavyweight Championship to Sgt. Slaughter at the Royal Rumble.\n\nIn a 2016 podcast with Stone Cold Steve Austin, Prichard recalled that he had long been a fan of evangelist preachers, more for their theatrics than their religion. When Prichard first pitched the idea of Brother Love to WWF owner Vince McMahon, Vince generally liked the idea but did not believe that Prichard \"had the face\" for the role. Determined to get himself into the role that he had created, Prichard, dressed as Brother Love (minus the red face paint he would appear on television with), invaded a meeting at the WWF's headquarters between McMahon, the head of WWF International and the WWF's chief financial officer. There, he gave an impromptu two minute sermon before quickly departing. When he arrived back at his office at the WWF's television studios five minutes later, he discovered that he had two missed calls from McMahon who he was relieved to find had liked what he had seen. However, Vince wanted to see how it worked on camera. Thus, the Brother Love character became a reality. Prichard also told that the bright red face make up was unknown to him the first time he appeared on television as Brother Love. As it was a television taping, Prichard thought it was just normal make up being applied and he did not look in the mirror, not knowing that Vince McMahon had ordered that he be given the red face.\n\nOn November 19, 1990, Brother Love managed The Undertaker, who at the time was known as \"Kane the Undertaker,\" for his in-ring debut during a taping of \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\". That match, and another one for a taping of \"WWF Wrestling Challenge\" the following night, aired on television after his appearance live at the 1990 Survivor Series in which he was part of a Survivor Series style match between a team led by Dusty Rhodes and a team led by Ted DiBiase. DiBiase would reveal the mystery partner as The Undertaker. This was the first time Brother Love appeared on television as The Undertaker's manager. Brother Love continued to manage The Undertaker until February 1991, when he sold his contract to Paul Bearer.\n\nThe character of Brother Love was controversial by its design and nature, since it was introduced around the time of the late 1980s scandals involving televangelists including Jim Bakker and Jimmy Swaggart. In its antics bearing it was an artistic hyperbole and apparently played off of aforementioned figures. As such several of the segments on the \"Brother Love Show\" that was featured on WWF TV program was explicitly offensive and exploitative and bordered on the lines of taste. One such particular segment involved Brother Love playing the part of a charlatan \"faith healer\", where he induced an actor, pretending to be blind and crippled, to \"see\" and \"walk\" on command. The actor would proclaim, \"I can see!\" and \"I can walk!\" after obeying Love's commands.\n\nPrichard was released from the WWF in May 1991, shortly after the \"I Can See!\" segment aired. He was \"offed\" i.e., the on-screen demise of Brother Love was brought about when The Ultimate Warrior attacked him and beat him nearly unconscious, breaking his ribs, and destroyed The Brother Love Show set, slamming the lectern, tearing the curtains and knocking down a light. \nPrichard's release, however, was actually due to personal and private issues that he had at the time and not because of the \"I Can See\" segment and he would eventually be re-hired and return to the WWF the following year (1992), albeit in a different capacity not reprising the Brother Love role.\n\nAfter his release from the WWF, Prichard eventually joined the Dallas-based Global Wrestling Federation, where he worked as a manager and ringside interviewer between 1991 and 1992, using his real name.\n\nHe began as a babyface color commentator, but eventually turned heel right in the middle of calling an ESPN televised match with GWF play-by-play announcer Craig Johnson. He managed Barry Horowitz in the GWF, and gave him the nickname \"The Winner\". Horowitz and Prichard feuded with GWF Light Heavyweight champion Chaz Taylor. Prichard said mockingly of Taylor, \"He may be a lightweight but he's no champion!\" After failing to win the title from Taylor, both Horowitz and Prichard left the GWF.\n\nPrichard returned to the WWF in September 1992 and portrayed two short-lived characters. He first appeared as The Wizard, a heel color commentator on \"All-American Wrestling\" (who never appeared on camera during the character's brief run), and then as Reo Rodgers, a satire on Dusty Rhodes. Rodgers did commentary from time to time in his short stint, and his interview segment, \"Reo's Roundup,\" lasted only two segments before the character was dropped.\n\nAfter this, he remained behind the scenes, working as Vince McMahon's \"right-hand man\" and also as a writer for some of WWE's shows. However, Prichard has reprised his Brother Love character on occasion.\n\nBrother Love returned to the WWF in November 1995. He hosted the Brother Love Show once again, this time on \"Monday Night Raw\". In what would prove to be a monumental moment in WWF history, Brother Love hosted Ted DiBiase introducing The Ringmaster into the World Wrestling Federation. The Ringmaster would eventually transform into Stone Cold Steve Austin. Brother Love then quietly disappeared from the WWF again soon after.\n\nBrother Love resurfaced once again for one night in January 1997, making a surprise appearance on the debut episode of \"Shotgun Saturday Night\", helping the Flying Nuns defeat The Godwinns. Love then named the team The Sisters of Love. The gimmick was quickly scrapped, with the team later finding success as The Headbangers.\n\nPrichard (as himself) once again managed The Undertaker for a match in Michinoku Pro Wrestling (MPW) on October 10, 1997, where he defeated Jinsei Shinzaki.\n\nThrough the remainder of the Attitude Era, Prichard was occasionally seen on-screen as himself, either cleaning up between matches at ringside, or as one of the people called in to break up a backstage fight. During the fall of 1998 and into early-1999, he provided colour-commentary on Shotgun Saturday Night. He was also the only backstage employee to have an interview segment on the \"Raw is Owen\" memorial broadcast.\n\nIn 2001, Brother Love participated in the gimmick battle royal at WrestleMania X-Seven. He was eliminated by Sgt. Slaughter.\n\nOn the February 6, 2003 airing of \"SmackDown!\", Brother Love confronted The Undertaker, then portraying a biker gimmick, in his feud against The Big Show. Brother Love pleaded with The Undertaker to forgive Big Show for his recent actions, but The Undertaker, however, wasn't pleased and gave Brother Love a chokeslam, followed up by a Tombstone Piledriver in the middle of the ring. Love later appeared in the Bar Room Brawl at Vengeance 2003, lasting all the way to the end before being knocked out by Bradshaw.\n\n\"The Brother Love Show\" made a short-term return on a couple of SmackDown! brand house shows in the summer of 2003 as a replacement for planned \"Piper's Pit\" segments (Roddy Piper had been released from his contract). These segments saw Love and Mr. McMahon attempt to humiliate Zach Gowen, only to get their comeuppance in the end.\n\nOn December 1, 2008, Bruce Prichard was released from the WWE by Stephanie McMahon.\n\nIt was reported on October 7, 2010, that Prichard had been hired by TNA to presumably reprise the role he had in WWE working as a backstage agent and producer.\n\nOn October 6, 2011, Prichard took over the role of TNA head writer from Vince Russo. \n\nIn May 2012, Prichard was promoted to Vice President of Talent Relations to replace Terry Taylor. On October 17, 2012, Prichard was promoted to Senior Vice President, Programming & Talent Relations. In this new role, Prichard oversaw talent relations, talent scouting and development as well as the creative direction of the company.\n\nIn May 2013, Prichard began appearing as a judge alongside Al Snow and Taz in the monthly Gut Check segment on \"TNA Impact\".\n\nTNA released Prichard on July 17, 2013.\n\nIn March 2017, it was announced that Prichard would be making his return to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. Shortly after re-signing with the company, Prichard began appearing in an onscreen role for the recently renamed Impact Wrestling. Prichard left the company in August 2017. To explain Prichard's departure on screen, the story saw Jim Cornette brought in by Anthem, the parent company of Impact Wrestling, to fire him.\n\nOn March 8, 2018, it was announced that Prichard had been hired as a senior producer by Major League Wrestling, a wrestling promotion founded by former WWE writer, Court Bauer, in 2002.\n\nOn January 22, 2018, Prichard returned to the WWE for a one-off appearance as Brother Love on the \"WWE Raw 25 Years\" anniversary special. In April 2018, Prichard and podcast co-host Conrad Thompson began doing a video version of their podcast titled \"Something Else to Wrestle\", airing exclusively on the WWE Network. On February 23, 2019, it was reported that WWE had officially signed Prichard on to join their creative team. In March, it was reported that Prichard would be working as WWE's Senior Vice President. On October 15, 2019, it was announced that he would take over as Executive Director of \"SmackDown\", assuming the role from Eric Bischoff.\n\nPrichard made a cameo appearance as Brother Love at the 2020 Money in the Bank pay-per-view, during the titular ladder match. \n\nIn August 2016, Prichard and co-host Conrad Thompson began the internet podcast \"Something to Wrestle with Bruce Prichard\". Prichard and Thompson discuss a wide variety of subjects from Prichard's time with the World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment and his time in TNA and the GWF have been topics as well. The show has spun-off into a companion video show, titled \"Something Else to Wrestle with Bruce Prichard\", which debuted on the WWE Network on April 18, 2018.\n\nBruce Prichard is the brother of professional wrestler Tom Prichard and guitarist Chris Prichard. Bruce also has two other brothers, Jerry and Ken. He also has a son, Kane, which he named after the pro wrestler Kane.\n\nPrichard suffered two heart attacks in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849896", "title": "The Big Knights", "text": "The Big Knights\n\nThe Big Knights was a British animated television series created, directed and produced by Astley Baker Davies. It was first broadcast on BBC One over the Christmas Season of 1999-2000. It was the first TV series to be digitally animated using CelAction 2D, while the first release of the software was still under development.\n\nThe stories tell the adventures of the two Big Knights, Sir Boris and Sir Morris, who are incredibly strong and brave, but are also incredibly stupid. They solve crises, usually of their own creation, but cause great destruction and mayhem in the process.\n\nThe eponymous Big Knights live in Castle Big, on the edge of Forest Big, in the land of Borovia. Borovia seems to be situated in either Central or Eastern Europe. The knights themselves are indeed big; according to the title sequence they are \"the height of two men, the weight of four, the strength of sixteen\".\n\nBorovia is rife with dragons, witches, trolls, ogres and a race of tiny people. The only real civilisation aside from Castle Big and King Otto's run-down palace is Borodzo, a tiny country town in the middle of nowhere. In the town square was a large gold clock which the incompetent King Otto accidentally spent a huge amount of money upon, only for the Big Knights to destroy it before the King arrived to view it.\n\nThe population is negligible, the economy is poor and the army consists mainly of Sir Boris, Sir Morris and their pets, as well as a host of lesser knights who, not being big, tend to take a back seat. This is mainly due to their snobbish elitism and general martial incompetence; they are much happier practising genuflection and brushing up their courtly manners. There doesn't seem to be much going for Borovia. The land has a fledgling television system (in black and white, consisting mainly of weather reports), at least one car (owned by the King) and an ill-fated hydroelectric dam, along with a failed proton power plant, which runs on pig manure. From this it becomes apparent that Borovia, rather than being merely medieval, is in fact in the modern age, and whether through geographical isolation or sheer indolence, very backward.\n\nThe country borders on the land of Moridia, a richer and more prosperous nation. The people there are more intelligent, and are always one step ahead of their envious neighbours. Borovia also borders a land of vampires, which the Big Knights help to get rid of more by accident than design, in the process reviving the land's tourism industry. As lovable as they are, the Big Knights always seem to make life for all Borovians that little bit harder.\n\n\nThe Big Knights appeared over the Christmas of 1999/2000, and was lauded for its funny humour and cleverness. Jack and the Beanstalk, for example, is retold from the point of view of a tiny race of people who inhabit Sir Morris' garden. In another episode, an asteroid narrowly misses a new hydroelectric dam, only for the knights' efforts to rescue the princesses to result in the destruction of the dam by Sir Morris hurtling into it from a great height. The theme tune was provided by the Rostov Balalaika orchestra.\n\n\n\nThe series is airing or has aired in the following other countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849904", "title": "Alastair Burnet", "text": "Alastair Burnet\n\nSir James William Alexander Burnet (12 July 192820 July 2012), known as Alastair Burnet, was a British journalist and broadcaster, best known for his work in news and current affairs programmes, including a long career with ITN as chief presenter of the flagship \"News at Ten\"; Sir Robin Day described Burnet as \"the booster rocket that put ITN into orbit\".\n\nBurnet was also a prominent print journalist who edited \"The Economist\" and \"Daily Express\".\n\nBurnet was born in Sheffield, West Riding of Yorkshire, to Scottish parents on 12 July 1928. He was educated at the Leys School, a boys' independent school in Cambridge, before reading history at Worcester College, Oxford.\n\nUpon graduating, Burnet began work as a reporter for \"The Glasgow Herald\", before joining \"The Economist\" in 1958 as a sub-editor, leader writer, and subsequently, associate editor. He switched to television in 1963, becoming political editor for ITN. While reporting, Burnet became a relief newscaster and worked on ITN's current affairs programmes including \"Roving Report\", \"Dateline\" and \"Dateline Westminster\". He was also the main anchor for the ITV network's coverage of the 1964, 1966 and 1970 General Elections and the Apollo 11 Moon landing in 1969.\n\nBurnet left ITN in 1965 to rejoin \"The Economist\" as editor, but continued broadcasting as a reporter and interviewer for Associated-Rediffusion's weekly current affairs programme \"This Week\". He returned part-time to ITN in 1967 to launch \"News at Ten\" (initially as thirteen-week pilot), presenting the first programme on 3 July alongside Andrew Gardner, and also presented the short lived topical interview series \"Man in the News\" in 1970. He switched to the BBC in 1972 to report and present for \"Panorama\" and \"Midweek\" and to anchor coverage of the February and October 1974 General Election programmes, also covering the wedding of Princess Anne and Mark Phillips. He continued to edit \"The Economist\" until 1974, where he raised the circulation by 60%. He then joined the \"Daily Express\" as editor, but resigned 18 months later.\n\nHe rejoined ITN in June 1976, initially for a brief stint back on \"News at Ten\", but in September 1976 he became the main presenter for the newly relaunched early evening bulletin \"News at 5:45\". He returned to \"News at Ten\" in March 1978. Four years later, Burnet became an associate editor for the programme and joined the ITN board of directors. He continued to present coverage of political events including the 1979, 1983 and 1987 General Elections, by-elections, budgets and American presidential elections.\n\nBurnet also presented coverage of the royal family, commentating on the weddings of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer in 1981, Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson in 1986 and other state occasions. He also wrote and presented several Royal documentaries including \"In Person: The Prince and Princess of Wales\", \"A Royal Day\" and \"The Royal Family in Scotland\". Outside of ITN, he was also a presenter and interviewer for Thames Television's \"TV Eye\" (for a time, a substitute for \"This Week\").\n\nIn February 1990, Burnet resigned from the ITN board amid a dispute over the future ownership of the company, during which his own proposals to restructure the organisation were rejected. He retired from ITN as newscaster and associate editor 18 months later, presenting his final edition of \"News at Ten\" on 29 August 1991.\n\nFollowing his retirement, he did not make any further appearances on television or write for the press. In part, this was because of his being diagnosed with senile dementia, following which the requirement for twenty four hour nursing resulted in his having to reside in the Beatrice Place Nursing Home in Kensington, London. His condition meant that he felt comfortable only with close friends, including his wife, and former ITN News director, Diana Edwards-Jones. Burnet died peacefully in the early hours of 20 July 2012, at his nursing home in Kensington, where he had been living following a series of strokes. Paying tribute, Andrew Neil referred to Burnet as \"Britain's greatest broadcaster\".\n\nIn his will he left £2 million, the majority of which was bequeathed to his wife.\n\nThe satirical TV puppet show \"Spitting Image\" portrayed Burnet as a cringing, fawning royalist (\"lick, lick, smarm, smarm\"), forever trying to suck up to the nearest available member of the Royal Family; one episode ended with the Burnet puppet singing a song about his love for the Queen Mother (before being pushed aside for Sandy Gall). The satirical magazine \"Private Eye\" referred to him as \"Arslicker Burnet\".\n\nBurnet was a supporter of Scottish football clubs Rangers and Partick Thistle.\n\nBurnet was knighted in the 1984 New Year Honours \"for services to journalism and broadcasting\".\n\nHe also won numerous awards, including the BAFTA Richard Dimbleby award three times in 1966, 1970 and 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849907", "title": "Gitanjali", "text": "Gitanjali\n\nGitanjali (, ) is a collection of poems by the Bengali poet Rabindranath Tagore. Tagore received the Nobel Prize for Literature, largely for the English translation, \"Song Offerings\".\nIt is part of the UNESCO Collection of Representative Works. Its central theme is devotion & motto is 'I am here to sing thee songs '(No. Xv).\n\nThe original Bengali collection of 156/157 poems was published on August 14 1910\n\nThe English \"Gitanjali\" or \"Song Offerings\" is a collection of 103 English prose poems, which are Tagore's own English translations of his Bengali poems first published in November 1912 by the Indian Society of London. It contained translations of 53 poems from the original Bengali Gitanjali, as well as 50 other poems from his other works. The translations were often radical, leaving out or altering large chunks of the poem and in one instance fusing two separate poems (song 95, which unifies songs 89,90 of \"Naivedya\"). The English \"Gitanjali\" became popular in the West, and was widely translated.\n"}
{"id": "1849914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849914", "title": "Anything That Moves", "text": "Anything That Moves\n\nAnything That Moves was a literary, journalistic, and topical magazine published in the United States from 1990 to 2002. It was created as an expansion of the San Francisco Bay Area Bisexual Network (BABN) newsletter by BABN member, Karla Rossi, in collaboration with bisexual and bi-friendly editors, writers, and artists to become a full 64-page magazine with an international subscriber base. The complete title of the magazine, \"Anything That Moves: Beyond the Myths of Bisexuality\", was purposely chosen for its controversial nature, while its tag line indicated a clear intent to challenge stereotypes of bisexual identities and behaviors. The magazine took its name from the stereotype depicting bisexuals as willing to have sex with \"anything that moves\".\n\nThe magazine's mission was to confront and redefine concepts of sexuality and gender, to defy stereotypes and broad definitions of bisexuals and to combat biphobia.\n\nMost of the issues were theme-based, designed to cohesively present the vast array of diverse bisexual voices and experiences across the lines of gender, class, race, ethnicity, spirituality, lifestyle, age, politics, culture, and sexual behaviors, desires, and preferences. Special care was taken to include a wide variety of perspectives, from straight-identified to queer-identified bisexuals, while inclusion did not require the declaration of an identity or label to indicate where one fell along the spectrum of ways to be bisexual.\nChanges in managing editors at the helm precipitated changes in the magazine's tag line that were made to reflect the evolving, exploratory, and creative nature of its subject matter and content.\n"}
{"id": "1849916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849916", "title": "Sidney D. Kirkpatrick", "text": "Sidney D. Kirkpatrick\n\nSidney D. Kirkpatrick (born 1955) is an award-winning documentary filmmaker and a bestselling historical author. He grew up in Stony Brook, Long Island and attended Kent School, Connecticut, Hampshire College, Massachusetts and New York University.\n\nHis documentaries include:\n\nHis books include:\n\n\nThe Smithsonian, National Archives, HBO, History Channel, Travel Channel, and A&E Television networks have all featured his work. Biographical profiles of Kirkpatrick have appeared in the New York Times, Newsweek, Time, the New Yorker, and Playboy.\n\nKirkpatrick is the father of Washington Post digital photo editor Nick Kirkpatrick, radio host Alexander Kirkpatrick, and the stepfather of film maker and artist Mercedes Thurlbeck. He plays squash, collects grave rubbings, and rings church bells.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849918", "title": "Eugene Gendlin", "text": "Eugene Gendlin\n\nEugene T. Gendlin (born Eugen Gendelin; 25 December 1926 – 1 May 2017) was an American philosopher who developed ways of thinking about and working with living process, the bodily felt sense and the \"philosophy of the implicit\". Though he had no degree in the field of psychology, his advanced study with Carl Rogers, his longtime practice of psychotherapy and his extensive writings in the field of psychology have made him perhaps better known in that field than in philosophy. He studied under Carl Rogers, the founder of client-centered therapy, at the University of Chicago and received his PhD in philosophy in 1958. Gendlin's theories impacted Rogers’ own beliefs and played a role in Rogers’ view of psychotherapy. From 1958 to 1963 Gendlin was Research Director at the Wisconsin Psychiatric Institute of the University of Wisconsin. He served as an associate professor in the departments of Philosophy and Comparative Human Development at the University of Chicago from 1964 until 1995.\n\nGendlin is best known for Focusing and for \"Thinking at the Edge\", two procedures for thinking with more than patterns and concepts. In the 1950s and 60s, under the guidance of Rogers, Gendlin did seminal research demonstrating that a client's ability to realize lasting positive change in psychotherapy depended on their ability to access a nonverbal, bodily feel of the issues that brought them into therapy. Gendlin called this intuitive body-feel the “felt sense.” Realizing that people could learn this life-altering inner skill on their own, in 1978 Gendlin published his best-selling book \"Focusing\", which presented a six step method for discovering one's felt sense and drawing on it for personal development. Gendlin founded The Focusing Institute in 1985 (now the International Focusing Institute) to facilitate training and education in Focusing for academic and professional communities and to share the practice with the public.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Gendlin served on the original editorial board for the journal \"The Humanistic Psychologist\", published by Division 32 of the American Psychological Association (APA). He has been honored by the APA three times, and was the first recipient of their Distinguished Professional Award in Psychology and Psychotherapy (given by Division 29, this award is now called the Distinguished Psychologist Award for Contributions to Psychology and Psychotherapy). He was awarded the Viktor Frankl prize by the Viktor Frankl Family Foundation in 2008. In 2016, he was honored with a lifetime achievement award from the World Association for Person Centered and Experiential Psychotherapy and Counseling and another lifetime achievement award was given to him that same year by the United States Association for Body Psychotherapy. Gendlin was a founder and longtime editor of the journal \"Psychotherapy: Theory, Research and Practice\" as well as the in-house journal of the Focusing Institute called the \"Folio\", and is the author of a number of books, including \"Focusing-Oriented Psychotherapy: A Manual of the Experiential Method\" (Guilford). The mass-market edition of his popular classic \"Focusing\" has been translated into 17 languages and sold more than a half million copies.\n\nGendlin regarded himself first and foremost as a philosopher and he brought a rigorous philosophical perspective to psychology, presented in his early book \"Experiencing and the Creation of Meaning\" and later developed into a comprehensive theory of the deep nature of life processes, articulated in his masterwork \"A Process Model\". From 1968 to 1995 he taught at the University of Chicago, where he taught a course on theory-building that later gave rise to a new practice called “Thinking at the Edge,” a fourteen-step method for drawing on one's non-conceptual, experiential knowing about any topic to create novel theory and concepts. Gendlin asserts that an organism's living interaction with its environment is prior (temporally and philosophically) to abstract knowledge about its environment. Living is an intricate, ordered interaction with the environment, and as such, is a kind of knowing. Abstract knowledge is a development of this more basic knowing.\n\nFor example, when a pen falls off a desk, that seems to be proof that gravity exists, because gravity made it fall. But what is \"gravity\"? In 1500, \"gravity\" was the pen's desire to go to the center of the earth; in 1700 \"gravity\" was a force that acted at a distance according to mathematical laws; in the 1900s \"gravity\" was an effect of curved space-time; and today physicists theorize that \"gravity\" may be a force carried by subatomic particles called \"gravitons\". Gendlin views \"gravity\" as a concept and points out that concepts can't make anything fall. Instead of saying that gravity causes things to fall, it would be more accurate to say that things falling cause [the different concepts of] gravity. Interaction with the world is prior to concepts about the world.\n\nThe fact that concepts change does not mean that they are arbitrary; concepts can be formulated in many diverse and incompatible ways, but to the extent that they are rooted in experience, each formulation has its own precise relationship to experience. Thus Gendlin's philosophy goes beyond relativism and postmodernism. He agrees with postmodernists that culture and language are always already implicit in experiencing and in concepts. Empirical testing is crucial, but it does not keep science from changing every few years. No assertions are simply \"objective\".\n\nGendlin points out that the universe (and everything in it) is implicitly more intricate than concepts, because a) it includes them, and b) all concepts and logical units are generated in a wider, more than conceptual process (which Gendlin calls \"implicit intricacy\"). This wider process is more than logical, in a way that has a number of characteristic regularities. Gendlin has shown that it is possible to refer directly to this process in the context of a given problem or situation and systematically generate new concepts and more precise logical units.\n\nBecause human beings \"are\" in an ongoing interaction with the world (they breathe, eat, and interact with others in every context and in any field in which they work), their bodies \"are\" a \"knowing\" which is more than conceptual and which implies further steps. Thus, it is possible for one to drive a car while carrying on an animated conversation; and it is possible for Einstein to say that he had a \"feel\" for his theory years before he could formulate it.\n\nHuman beings' ongoing interaction with the world provides ongoing validity. Each move, from pumping blood to discussing philosophy, implies a next step, an organic \"carrying forward\". Humans feel this carrying forward both in the move itself and in the feedback it generates: at each moment, it is possible to feel how things are moving and what is implied next. With specific training, one can learn to attend to this feeling more deeply, so that a holistic \"felt sense\" of the whole situation can form.\n\nA felt sense is quite different from \"feeling\" in the sense of emotions; it is one's bodily awareness of the ongoing life process. Because a felt sense is a living interaction in the world, it is not relative in the way that concepts are. A felt sense is more ordered than concepts and has its own properties, different from those of logic; for example, it is very precise, more intricate, and can be conceptualized in a variety of non-arbitrary ways. Much of Gendlin's philosophy is concerned with showing how this implicit bodily knowing functions in relation to logic. For example, Gendlin has found that when the felt sense is allowed to function in relation to concepts, each carries the other forward, through steps of deeper feel and new formulation.\n\nGendlin underlines that one can (and often does) \"progress\" in one's understanding, and that this involves transitions in which existing conceptual models are disrupted, but that one can \"feel\" when a carrying forward in insight is (or is not) occurring. One can \"feel\" this because human logical conceptions are dependent on a more intricate order, which \"is\" living-in-the-world. Useful concepts derive from and are relative to this sense more than logical, intricate order, not the other way round.\n\nGendlin's two major philosophical works are \"Experiencing and the Creation of Meaning\", which develops explicit ways of approaching the implicit; and \"A Process Model\", which demonstrates this method by developing a body of consistent concepts for thinking about organic processes, with implications for thinking about space, time, science, genetics, ethology, consciousness, language, and spirituality.\n\nFocusing emerged from Gendlin's collaboration with psychologist Carl Rogers. Gendlin developed a way of measuring the extent to which an individual refers to a felt sense; and he found in a series of studies that therapy clients who have positive outcomes do much more of this. He then developed a way to teach people to refer to their felt sense, so clients could do better in therapy. This training is called 'Focusing'. Further research showed that Focusing can be used outside therapy to address a variety of issues. It is described in Gendlin's book, \"Focusing\", which has sold over 400,000 copies and is printed in twelve languages. One of his most beloved quotations is from his book Focusing: \"When I use the word 'body,' I mean more than the physical machine. Not only do you physically live the circumstances around you but also those you only think of in your mind. Your physically felt body is in fact part of a gigantic system of here and other places, now and other times, you and other people–in fact, the whole universe. This sense of being bodily alive in a vast system is the body as it is felt from inside.\"\n\nIn 1970, Gendlin was the first person to receive the \"Distinguished Professional Award in Psychology and Psychotherapy\" from the Psychotherapy Division (Division 29) of the American Psychological Association. In 2000, Gendlin also received, along with The Focusing Institute, the Charlotte and Karl Bühler Award from the Society of Humanistic Psychology (Division 32 of the American Psychological Association). In 2007, he was a recipient of the Viktor Frankl Award of the City of Vienna for outstanding achievements in the field of meaning-oriented humanistic psychotherapy.\n\nThe worldwide dissemination of Focusing has been facilitated by The International Focusing Institute . This nonprofit organization defines itself as \"an international, cross-cultural organization dedicated to supporting individuals and groups world-wide who are practicing, teaching and developing Focusing and its underlying philosophy.\" Their 2010 Membership Directory listed about 2,000 members in over 40 countries. Its website houses the Gendlin Online Library.\n\n\"Thinking at the Edge\" (TAE), a practice initially developed by Mary N. Hendricks on the basis of Eugene Gendlin's \"philosophy of the implicit\", is a way of developing one's implicit knowing into an articulated theory. For example, a professional might have had an inchoate felt sense for a problem for many years. Using TAE, it is possible to develop concepts that explicate the felt sense very precisely so that what was implicit knowledge can generate an explicit theory that can contribute to the field.\n\nGendlin was born in Vienna, Austria, on December 25, 1926. He lived with his parents in the 9th district of Vienna, a very Jewish district at that time. His mother was Sylvia Gendelin-Tobell. His father, Leonid Gendelin, had earned a doctoral degree in chemistry from the University of Graz. Dr. Gendelin had a dry cleaning business in Vienna. The family left Austria due to the rise of the Nazi party and the danger to Jewish families such as his. They first fled to the Netherlands and later emigrated to the United States on the SS Paris (1916) on its last voyage to New York, arriving January 11, 1939. The family changed their name to Gendlin upon their arrival in the United States, and in English it is pronounced \"JEHND-lin\" (not with the hard \"g\" as in German pronunciation). Gendlin went on to serve in the United States Navy and to become a U.S. citizen.\n\nGendlin lived in New York state until his death. He had three children: Gerry and Judith from his first marriage with wife Fran; and a daughter, Elissa, with his second wife, Mary Hendricks-Gendlin. Gerry Gendlin is an expert on Russia and serves as an associate professor in the department of History, Politics, Languages and Cultures at Edinboro University in Edinboro, Pennsylvania. Mary worked closely with Gendlin and served for many years as the director of The Focusing Institute. Mary Hendricks-Gendlin died in 2015.\n\n1970: \"Distinguished Professional Award in Psychology and Psychotherapy,\" from Division 29 of the American Psychological Association (Division of Psychotherapy)\n\n2000: \"Charlotte and Karl Bühler Award\" (given jointly to Gendlin and The Focusing Institute), from Division 32 of the American Psychological Association (the Society for Humanistic Psychology)\n\n2007: \"Viktor Frankl Award of the City of Vienna for outstanding achievements in the field of meaning-oriented humanistic psychotherapy,\" from the Viktor Frankl Foundation \n\n2011: \"Distinguished Theoretical and Philosophical Contributions to Psychology,\" from Division 24 of the American Psychological Association (The Society for Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology)\n\n2016: \"Lifetime Achievement,\" from the World Association for Person Centered and Experiential Psychotherapy and Counseling\n\n2016: \"Lifetime Achievement,\" from the US Association for Body Psychotherapy\n\nGendlin's philosophical works include:\n\nHis writings on focusing and psychotherapy include:\n\nMany of Gendlin's writings are available online at the Focusing Institute and the Gendlin Online Library .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849921", "title": "WASG", "text": "WASG\n\nWASG may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1849923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849923", "title": "1978 in art", "text": "1978 in art\n\nThe year 1978 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849928", "title": "Discordance Axis", "text": "Discordance Axis\n\nDiscordance Axis was a grindcore band from East Brunswick, New Jersey.\n\nFrontman Jon Chang on the history of the band:\n\n\"Discordance Axis was a three piece grind core band that started in NJ around 1992. The band started after myself and Rob's previous band disintegrated and we found Dave at a Human Remains show. We asked him to play a split 7\" with us and it snowballed from there.\n\nThe pattern was, we got together and wrote and recorded some material, then would part ways. We never really played live much because...well we couldn't manage to sell more than 500 copies of any of our records and we all had conflicting schedules.\n\nWe get asked why we only toured Japan. That's easy. That's where all our records sold. And most of the bands we liked were from over there.\n\nSteve Procopio played live a lot with us and recorded the guitar tracks on the Necropolitan EP. Rob Marton plays guitar on every other recording we produced. Steve and Rob were two really gifted people and I feel fortunate to have played with both them and Dave.\n\nThere's a much more detailed band history in the Original Sound Version and Jouhou reissue CD's that Hydrahead released, but in brief, Discordance Axis started in 1992 and broke up in 2001. All of our music has been re-issued on CD except for our tracks on the Necropolitan EP(because the master is lost) and our track from the Snarl Out Vol 2 7\" comp record.\n\nJon Chang now sings for Gridlink. \nRob Marton writes lots of music but isn't in a band. \nDave Witte plays for Municipal Waste (among others).\"\n\nIn the beginning the band played straightforward grindcore influenced by the likes of Napalm Death, but on later releases they showcased a very original style. Robert Marton played guitar lines that were both technical and dissonant, and added creative overdubs to augment the melodies. Dave Witte added complex rolls, fills, and jarring rhythmic shifts to the usual barrage of blast beats found in grindcore. Jon Chang alternated between a shrill shriek and a \"gastrointestinal\" roar, and based most of his metaphorical lyrics on novels and anime. The band had no bassist and released the majority of their full-length recordings in DVD cases rather than CD cases coming with unusually large booklets (normally with liner notes for each song longer than the lyrics).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849932", "title": "Karl Dane", "text": "Karl Dane\n\nKarl Dane (born Rasmus Karl Therkelsen Gottlieb, 12 October 1886 – 14 April 1934) was a Danish-American comedian and actor known for his work in American films, mainly of the silent film era. He became a star after portraying “Slim”, a supporting role in one of the most successful silent films of all time, \"The Big Parade\" (1925), directed by King Vidor and starring John Gilbert.\n\nAfter signing with MGM in 1926, he appeared in supporting roles in several popular silent films before teaming up with George K. Arthur to form the successful comedy duo Dane & Arthur. They appeared in a number of silent, short comedy films and toured the vaudeville circuit. At the peak of his career, Dane earned $1500 a week. As the film industry transitioned from silent to sound films in the late 1920s, Dane's thick Danish accent became problematic. By 1930, Dane was relegated to less prominent roles, often with little to no dialogue. Later that year, MGM terminated his contract. Dane attempted to pursue work in other fields but found no success. Broke and despondent, he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound in April 1934.\n\nKarl Dane's rapid career decline, depression and subsequent death have been cited as an extreme example of the fate that befell many silent film stars who were unable to make the transition from silent to sound films.\n\nDane was born Rasmus Karl Therkelsen Gottlieb (not Karl Daen as sometimes reported) in Turesensgade 23 in central Copenhagen, Denmark to Rasmus Carl Marius Gottlieb and Anne Cathrine (née Simonsen) Gottlieb. He had two brothers: Reinald Marius and Viggo Eiler. His parents' marriage was apparently stormy, with his father having trouble with alcohol and money management. In 1903, Dane's parents divorced, leaving him in the custody of his mother. His father was a glove maker by trade but enjoyed the theatre. Around the start of the 20th century, he built a toy theatre which people began to pay to see; during this time, Dane and his brother Reinald would perform for the crowds. His father worked as a curtain puller at the local theatre, to which his two sons accompanied him. Dane later said this would inspire him to act. In 1900, Dane and his brother apprenticed as machinists, a job he would perform on and off throughout his life. In 1907, he began compulsory military service in the First Artillery Battalion. He was promoted to lance corporal in June 1908. After being discharged from the military, he married dressmaker Carla Dagmar Hagen on 10 September 1910. The marriage produced two children: Ejlert Carl (born March 1911) and Ingeborg Helene (July 1912). With the outbreak of World War I, Dane was recalled up to duty; he was stationed again at Trekroner Fort in August 1914. He was promoted to corporal in November 1915.\n\nOn 25 January 1916, Dane headed for the United States alone. He intended to send for his family later. He boarded the \"SS Oscar II\" with $25 in his pocket and speaking no English. The ship arrived on 11 February 1916 at Ellis Island. Dane passed immigrant inspection and moved to 345 Court Street in Brooklyn with a friend named Charles Lindgren. The same day, he found work in a foundry. Sometime in 1916 he moved to Lincoln, Nebraska where he worked as an auto mechanic. By summer 1917, he returned to New York City where he again worked as a mechanic.\n\nIn late 1917, Dane made his film début in a bit part in a Vitagraph Studios short filmed in Fort Lee, New Jersey. He made $3 a day (as a mechanic he had been making $3 a week) for his part. However, his scenes were cut and the name of this film is not known. Any footage is presumed lost. Dane then appeared in Warner Bros. anti-German sentiment film \"My Four Years in Germany\" as Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg. This would be the first of many such roles for Dane in his early career. The film was released 29 April 1918 and was a success, earning an approximate $500,000 at the box office (the film had a budget of $50,000). His next film was \"Wolves of Kultur\" which contained 15 chapters (running about three hours total). The film was released chapter by chapter between 1918 and 1919. He then followed with the June Mathis-penned film \"To Hell with the Kaiser!\", reprising his role as Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg. Dane completed two more anti-German propaganda style films, \"The Great Victory, Wilson or the Kaiser? The Fall of the Hohenzollerns\" and \"Daring Hearts\", both released in 1919. In 1920, Dane portrayed \"The Wolf\" in another 15-chapter serial \"The Whirlwind\". That film is now presumed lost.\n\nIn early 1921, Dane met a Swedish immigrant named Helen Benson. He then quit acting and moved with Benson to Van Nuys, California, where they opened a chicken farm. They married on 15 June 1921. On 9 August 1923, Benson died in childbirth as did the couple's daughter. In December 1923, Dane ran into his old friend Charles Hutchison who convinced him to appear in a serial he was then producing.\n\nIn December 1924, Robert McIntyre (who had first cast Dane back at Vitagraph), the casting director at MGM recommended Dane for a role in King Vidor's latest project. Dane was cast as Slim in \"The Big Parade\" alongside John Gilbert and Renée Adorée. The movie was a major success, both critically and financially, becoming the second highest grossing silent film of all time making almost $6.5 million (approximately $ today). The film helped to propel Dane's career and helped him to secure more prominent roles.\n\nIn 1926, he co-starred with Rudolph Valentino and Vilma Bánky in \"The Son of the Sheik\". The film was a released after Valentino's death in August 1926 and became a massive success. It was re-released several more times well into the late 1930s. After working on \"The Son of the Sheik\", Dane signed a contract with MGM in June 1926. He began to appear in comic relief roles in several films including \"The Scarlet Letter\" (directed by Victor Sjöström and starring Lillian Gish), \"La Bohème\" (again directed by Vidor, and starring Gish, Gilbert and Adorée), and \"Alias Jimmy Valentine\" with William Haines and Leila Hyams.\n\nSoon after signing his MGM contract, Dane began work on the Vidor film, \"Bardelys the Magnificent\". It was on this film that MGM executive Harry Rapf decided to team Dane with English actor George K. Arthur as a comedic duo. Together they were dubbed Dane & Arthur. In May 1927, the duo's first film, \"Rookies\", opened and was an instant success. In June 1927, MGM signed Dane to a long term contract, making such films as \"Detectives\", \"Circus Rookies\", and \"The Trail of '98\". In April 1928, Dane broke his shoulder on set. He developed a serious case of bronchial pneumonia but eventually recovered and went back to work on the duo's films. At the peak of his success and popularity, Dane earned $1500 a week.\n\nDane & Arthur's last silent short was \"Detectives\" in 1928. On 23 December 1928 their first talkie, \"Brotherly Love\" was released. By this time, sound films were rising in popularity and MGM was worried that actors with thick foreign accents would not be ideal for sound films. In his memoirs, George K. Arthur claimed that after MGM tested the duo for sound films, they felt his British accent was \"more desirable\" while Dane's thick Danish accent made his English difficult for audiences to understand. As a result, MGM began offering Dane fewer roles. Dane & Arthur made only six more talkies, ending with \"China Bound\" in 1929.\n\nIn 1930, Dane had a supporting role in musical Western \"Montana Moon\", starring Joan Crawford and Johnny Mack Brown. He followed with another supporting role (in which he had no dialogue) in the prison drama \"The Big House\", starring Robert Montgomery, Wallace Beery and Chester Morris. Later that year, MGM terminated Dane's contract citing his Danish accent. In his final interview in September 1933, Dane claimed that MGM wanted to renew his contract but he declined as he had suffered a nervous breakdown. Dane admitted that he had found it difficult to transition from silent to sound films due to his accent, but also said that he was exhausted from years of constant filming and was grieving the death of his father who died in September 1930.\n\nIn December 1930, Paramount offered Dane & Arthur a twenty-three-week Publix Theatre vaudeville tour. The pair had made a few shorts for Paramount and RKO as well. The partnership ended with the end of the vaudeville tour. After the tour ended in November 1931, Dane and some friends formed a mining corporation called Avelina Mines. The venture failed. By February 1932, Dane had returned to vaudeville, this time as a solo comedic act. His act was panned by critics and apparently short-lived. In December 1932, Dane's last film, \"The Whispering Shadow\" starring Bela Lugosi, was released.\n\nDane became an American citizen on 13 July 1928 and legally changed his name to Karl Dane.\n\nDane's first marriage was to Carla Dagmar Hagen. The couple married 10 September 1910 at Saint Paul's Church in Copenhagen. Dane's only living children were born during this union; son Ejlert Carl, in 1911 and daughter Ingeborg Helene in 1912. When Dane immigrated to the US, in 1916, he intended to send for his family later. However, by the time his career became successful, Dane had begun to lose touch with his family. Carla no longer wanted to join him, as she was suffering from ill health. The pair separated in 1918 and divorced in 1919.\n\nIn early 1921, Dane met Swedish immigrant Helen Benson. It was then he quit films and moved to Van Nuys. The couple married on 15 June 1921. Benson died in childbirth 9 August 1923, as did the couple's daughter. Unable to cope with the loss of his wife and daughter, Dane rushed into a marriage with telephone operator supervisor Emma Awilda Peabody Sawyer, seven years his senior. The couple married on 8 March 1924, and separated on 30 September 1924.\n\nIn June 1928, Dane reportedly fell in love with a Russian dancer, Thais Valdemar. The couple began dating and eventually claimed to be married though they indeed never were (many sources incorrectly state that she was his legal wife). The couple lived together at Dane's Beverly Hills home, until November 1928, when Valdemar moved out. By December, she filed a breach of promise suit against Dane for $75,000, but the case was ultimately dropped in 1929.\n\nBy the summer of 1933, Dane had given up on his film career and made a second attempt at mining. He spent three months driving up and down the West Coast trying to find a good mining deal. In September 1933, Dane lost $1,100 on a mining deal that failed to gain traction and advance. Deeply depressed by this lack of success, Dane subsequently worked as a mechanic and as a carpenter, but he was unable to stay employed for an extended period.\n\nIn 1933, Dane began working as a waiter in a \"tiny cafe\" in Westwood, Los Angeles. According to Dane's biographer, Laura Petersen Balough, oft told accounts that Dane \"bought stake in a hot dog stand outside the gates of MGM Studios\" which was supposedly shunned by his former co-workers are likely false. The \"hot dog stand\" or \"hot dog cart\" that is often referred to was actually similar to a luncheonette, a small, permanent structure that had a counter and seating for patrons. Dane eventually bought a stake in the cafe after the owner thought that having a former film star as a co-owner would drum up business. Dane's former comedy partner, George K. Arthur, mentioned Dane's final venture in his memoir:\n\n... Another man might have kidded and clowned and made a feature of being \"mine host\" in a restaurant, but when Karl opened his hot dog stand in Westwood his own feeling of despair must have been served across the counter with the hamburgers. People could not bear to watch it. So they didn't come to buy his hamburgers.\n\nBy 1934, Dane's restaurant venture had failed and he was once again unemployed and broke. He then tried to seek work as carpenter or as an extra at MGM and Paramount Pictures. He was reportedly turned down for extra work because his body type and look were too distracting.\n\nOn 13 April 1934, Dane was pickpocketed of all the money he had: $18. On 14 April, he was to meet his friend, Frances Leake, with whom he planned to see a movie. After he failed to show, Leake became worried. She went to his apartment (at 626 South Burnside Avenue) and with the assistance of the landlady, they were able to open the door. There they found Dane, dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, in his chair with a gun at his feet. Leake fainted at the scene. When she was revived, Leake found Dane's suicide note on a nearby table, next to a scrapbook filled with memorabilia, including photos, reviews and contracts, from his acting career. The note read, \"To Frances and all my friends-goodbye.\"\n\nNo friends or relatives came forward to claim Karl Dane's body. Police tagged his body with the note, \"May have relatives in Denmark. Hold for awhile\". For the next few days, authorities attempted to find his family, even placing ads in major Copenhagen newspapers. However, the Gottliebs did not find out about Dane's death until weeks later. Fellow Danish actor Jean Hersholt stepped forward and insisted MGM pay for a funeral and burial. MGM agreed and, on 18 April, a public funeral for Dane. There were around fifty attendees. Hersholt was a pallbearer as was Tom O'Brien. Dane was interred at the Hollywood Forever Cemetery. At the time of his death, Dane's estate was valued at $197.\n\nMany of Dane's films still exist today and a few are available on DVD including \"Son of the Sheik\", \"The Big Parade\", and \"The Whispering Shadow.\" \"Bardelys the Magnificent\" was thought lost, but most of the film has been found. It has been restored and released on DVD. Of the seven Dane & Arthur shorts, five still exist.\n\nDane received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his contributions to film, which is located at 6140 Hollywood Blvd (located in front of the Henry Fonda Music Box Theater).\n\nRenewed interest has been shown in Dane's career, especially in his native Denmark. On 12 October 2006, Danish weekly paper \"FOKUS\" published an article on Dane to commemorate what would have been his 120th birthday. In February 2007, an issue of the monthly \"Classic Images\" (#380) included an article on Dane. In the July 2007 biannual publication \"The Bridge\" (Volume 30 Number 1 2007), published by the Danish American Heritage Society, featured an article on Dane. In December 2007, the Danish Film Festival \"Kosmorama\" published an article about Dane in their newsletter.\n\nOn 28 January 2008, the Danish Film Institute held a 'Karl Dane Retrospective' in Copenhagen, Denmark. A speech was given by Laura Petersen Balogh and featured clips from Dane's films followed by a screening of one of his features. The event was attended by some of Dane's descendants. In 2009, a biography about Dane written by Balogh was released through McFarland & Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849935", "title": "Airstars", "text": "Airstars\n\nAirstars, Ltd () was a cargo airline based in Moscow, Russia. It was established in 2000 and operated cargo services throughout Russia and eastern Europe. Its main base was Domodedovo International Airport, Moscow. Its license was revoked in 2011 over safety violations regarding hours flown by each plane\n\nAirstars Airways operated freight services to the following international scheduled destinations (at January 2005): Shijiazhuang and Tianjin.\n\nThe Airstars Airways fleet included the following aircraft (as of 2010)\n"}
{"id": "1849939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849939", "title": "Bio F.R.E.A.K.S.", "text": "Bio F.R.E.A.K.S.\n\nBio F.R.E.A.K.S. is a 3D fighting video game released by Midway in 1998. It was originally planned for arcades. Prototypes of the game were tested at arcades, but the final arcade release was canceled (although a ROM image of the prototype was eventually dumped and works in MAME) and the game was later released for the PlayStation, Nintendo 64 and PC.\n\nIn the not-too-distant future, the United States fell like all great empires throughout history. Fifty states were broken into private territories after the Techno-Industrial Civil Wars. Technology and bio-engineering accelerated at such an incredible rate, and forced an industrial competition of corporate espionage. The government tried to keep control of the country by a single thread, but the effect of the giant corporations' white collar wars drove the economy into a tailspin. Neo-Amerika rises as the result of the government bankruptcy and technological companies takeover. To maintain order, The Secret Games Commission (SGC) is formed to organize tournaments deciding which organization gets to control all of Neo-Amerika, leading to the creation of Biological Flying Robotic Enhanced Armored Killing Synthoids (Bio F.R.E.A.K.S.) serving as the champions for each participating organization.\n\nThe game uses a fully polygonal fighting engine, with 8 different fighters, and 2 boss fighters.\n\n\"Bio F.R.E.A.K.S.\" uses a mix of hand-to-hand and long range combat. Each character has an assortment of special attacks, both close and long range, as well as \"finishing attacks\". Much like the Fatalities of the \"Mortal Kombat\" games, these moves can execute the player's opponents while some, like in \"Time Killers\", will remove limbs. Also damage from powerful attacks can add up causing a limb to be destroyed as well.\n\nThe game takes place in 3D fighting arenas. Emphasis was placed on mobility giving dashes a great range and in multiple directions.\n\nThe face buttons are assigned to specific limbs. The shoulder buttons are used for dodging, flying, and basic long range attacks.\n\n\"Bio F.R.E.A.K.S.\" received mixed reviews upon release. The PlayStation version currently has a rating of 60% on GameRankings while the Nintendo 64 version has a rating of 68%.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849940", "title": "Craig Harrison (writer)", "text": "Craig Harrison (writer)\n\nCraig Harrison (born 1942 in Leeds, Yorkshire) is a British-New Zealand author, playwright, scriptwriter, and retired university lecturer, probably best known for his novel \"The Quiet Earth\", which was published in 1982. Harrison's output has ranged widely, from science fiction to junior fiction, to comedies parodying academia. All of his books were published first in his adopted home of New Zealand.\n\nHarrison was born in Leeds in 1942, and migrated to New Zealand in 1966, where he lectured at Massey University in Palmerston North until his retirement. His end-of-the-world tale \"The Quiet Earth\" was shortlisted for New Zealand Book of the Year in 1982. It also inspired the acclaimed 1985 film of the same name, directed by Geoff Murphy, which won some rave reviews in the United States. Harrison also wrote 1991's \"Grievous Bodily\", a comical novel in which two inept university lecturers stumble upon a briefcase containing large quantities of stolen cash. Many chases and some exploding food items follow.\n\nHarrison's television work includes writing the 1978 culture-clash comedy \"Joe and Koro\". The show's basic concept – the friendship between an English-born schoolteacher and a Māori man – has a convoluted history, the main characters having appeared in Harrison's award-winning radio play \"Ground Level\", two different iterations of a stageplay, and a novel published in the early 1980s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849942", "title": "Indian pop", "text": "Indian pop\n\nIndian pop music, also known as Indi-pop, I-pop, or Hindi-pop, refers to pop music produced in India that is independent from filmi soundtracks for Indian cinema, such as the music of Bollywood, which tends to be more popular. Indian pop is closely linked to Bollywood, and the Asian Underground scene of the United Kingdom. The variety of South Asian music from different countries are generally known as Desi music. Pop music originated in the South Asian region with the playback singer Ahmed Rushdi's song ‘\"Ko Ko Korina\"’ in 1966 and has since then been adopted in India, Bangladesh, and lately Sri Lanka, and Nepal as a pioneering influence in their respective pop cultures. Following Rushdi's success, Christian bands specialising in jazz started performing at various night clubs and hotel lobbies in Karachi, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Dhaka and Lahore. They would usually sing either famous American jazz hits or cover Rushdi's songs.\nPop music began gaining popularity across the Indian subcontinent in the early 1980s, with Pakistani singers Nazia Hassan and Zohaib, forming a sibling duo whose records, produced by the Indian Biddu, sold as many as 60 million copies. Biddu himself previously had success in the Western world, where he was one of the first successful disco producers in the early 1970s, with hits such as the hugely popular \"Kung Fu Fighting\" (1974).\n\nThe term \"Indipop\" was first used by the British-Indian fusion band Monsoon in their 1981 EP release on Steve Coe's \"Indipop Records\". Charanjit Singh's \"\" (1982) anticipated the sound of acid house music, years before the genre arose in the Chicago house scene of the late 1980s, using the Roland TR-808 drum machine, TB-303 bass synthesizer, and Jupiter-8 synthesizer.\n\nThe launch of MTV India and Channel V in late 1990s gave a huge push to India-pop music. It was this time when the music reached its greatest heights.\nUntil then, few singers like Usha Uthup, Sharon Prabhakar, and Peenaz Masani outside it were popular. Since then, pop singers in the latter group have included Daler Mehndi, Baba Sehgal, Alisha Chinai, KK, Shantanu Mukherjee a.k.a. Shaan, Sagarika, Colonial Cousins (Hariharan, Lesle Lewis), Lucky Ali, and Sonu Nigam, and music composers like Zila Khan or Jawahar Wattal, who made top selling albums with, Daler Mehndi, Shubha Mudgal, Baba Sehgal, Shweta Shetty and Hans Raj Hans.\n\nBesides those listed above, popular Indi-pop singers include Gurdas Maan, Sukhwinder Singh, Yo Yo Honey Singh, Mohit Chauhan, Papon, Zubeen Garg, Raghav Sachar Rageshwari, Vandana Vishwas, Devika Chawla, Bombay Vikings, Asha Bhosle, Sunidhi Chauhan, Anushka Manchanda, Neha Bhasin, Bombay Rockers, Anu Malik, Jazzy B, Malkit Singh, Raghav, Jay Sean, Juggy D, Rishi Rich, Sheila Chandra, Bally Sagoo, Punjabi MC, Bhangra Knights, Mehnaz, Sanober and Vaishali Samant.\n\nIn the late 2000s, Indi-pop music faced increasing competition from filmi music. Major pop singer stopped releasing albums and started singing for movies. Recently, Indian pop has taken an interesting turn with the \"remixing\" of songs from past Indian movie songs, new beats being added to them.\n"}
{"id": "1849943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849943", "title": "Horgenzell", "text": "Horgenzell\n\nHorgenzell is a municipality in Germany with 4528 inhabitants, near Ravensburg. Horgenzell was first named in 1094. In 1972 the villages Hasenweiler, Kappel, Wolketsweiler and Zogenweiler were added to Horgenzell. In 1974 the village of Tepfenhart was added to Horgenzell\n\nAt Hogenzell, there is the Ravensburg-Horgenzell transmitter, a facility for mediumwave broadcasting.\n"}
{"id": "1849945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849945", "title": "Daniel Laurens Barringer", "text": "Daniel Laurens Barringer\n\nDaniel Laurens Barringer (October 1, 1788 – October 16, 1852) was a United States Representative from North Carolina between 1825 and 1834.\n\nBorn in Cabarrus County, North Carolina, Barringer studied law and practiced in the state capital of Raleigh. He was elected to the North Carolina House of Commons in 1813 and 1814, then again in 1819–1822.\n\nIn 1826, he was chosen in a special election to fill the U.S. House seat left vacant by the resignation of Willie P. Mangum. He was elected in regular Congressional elections to four succeeding congresses, serving in the national legislature from December 4, 1826 to March 3, 1835. He ran unsuccessfully for a fourth term in 1834, after which he settled in Shelbyville, Tennessee. After leaving Congress, Barringer became a member of the Tennessee House of Representatives, where he was Speaker from 1843 to 1845; he was a presidential elector for Whig ticket of Henry Clay and Theodore Frelinghuysen. Barringer died in 1852 in Shelbyville, Tennessee.\n\nBarringer was the uncle of Daniel Moreau Barringer, also later a Congressman from North Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "1849946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849946", "title": "Hack-a-Shaq", "text": "Hack-a-Shaq\n\nHack-a-Shaq is a basketball defensive strategy used in the National Basketball Association (NBA), where Dallas Mavericks coach Don Nelson adapted the strategy of committing intentional fouls (originally a clock management strategy) to the purpose of lowering opponents' scoring. He directed players to commit personal fouls throughout the game against selected opponents who shot free throws poorly.\n\nNelson initially used the strategy against Dennis Rodman, the power forward of the Detroit Pistons, San Antonio Spurs and Chicago Bulls. However, the strategy acquired its name for Nelson's subsequent use of it against Shaquille O'Neal, the center of the Orlando Magic, Los Angeles Lakers and Miami Heat.\n\nThe term was coined when O'Neal played at LSU and during his NBA tenure with the Orlando Magic. At that time, the term referred simply to especially physical defense against O'Neal. Teams sometimes defended him by bumping, striking or pushing him \"after\" he received the ball to deny him an easy layup or slam dunk. Because of O'Neal's poor free throw shooting, teams did not fear the consequences of committing personal fouls. However, once Nelson's off-the-ball fouling strategy became prevalent, the term \"Hack-a-Shaq\" was applied to this new tactic, and the original usage was largely forgotten.\n\nThe name is sometimes altered to reflect the player being fouled, for example \"Hack-a-Howard\" when used against Dwight Howard, or \"Hack-a-DJ\" for DeAndre Jordan.\n\nCommitting repeated intentional personal fouls is a longstanding defensive strategy used by teams that are trailing near the end of the game. Basketball, unique among major world sports, permits intentional fouling to gain a strategic advantage; in other sports, it is considered an unfair act or professional foul.\n\nOnce the fouling team enters the penalty situation, the fouled team is awarded free throws. The typical NBA player makes a high enough percentage of his free throws that, over time, opponents' possessions that end with free throws will yield more points than possessions in which the opponents try to score a field goal. Even the highest-scoring NBA teams average only about 1.1 points per possession. Giving such a team two free throws on each possession, the poorest free throw shooting teams make around 70% of their free throws and would score 1.4 points per possession. So intentionally fouling tends not to reduce the opponent's score.\n\nHowever, fouls stop the game clock. If a team is trailing with time running out, intentional fouling may be the only hope. In normal game play, the opponents will stall and run out the clock, even at the expense of failing to score, to the extent that the shot clock allows. The trailing team fouls intentionally to end the opponents' possession as soon as possible, leaving more time on the clock for the opposing team to respond to any score. It may also hope that fatigue and pressure affect the ability of the free-throw shooter.\n\nWhen this strategy was originally employed in the NBA, the trailing team often made a point of fouling the opposition player who was the poorest free throw shooter in the game at that time, even if that player did not possess the ball. However, fouling \"off the ball\" became a problem for the league when Wilt Chamberlain—a player of superstar caliber but an atrocious free throw shooter—entered the NBA.\n\nWilt Chamberlain was such a dominant player that he was sure to be on the floor near the end of any close game. However, he was such a poor free throw shooter (51%) as to be the natural target of a strategy of intentional fouling. The opposition was eager to send Chamberlain to the free throw line, and Chamberlain wished to avoid doing so. This led to a game of tag developing away from the basketball, players chasing Chamberlain as he tried to avoid being fouled.\n\nThe NBA enacted a new rule on off-the-ball fouls—personal fouls against an offensive player who neither has the ball nor is trying to obtain it. On such fouls within the last two minutes of the game or in overtime, the offensive team is awarded the usual number of free throws and then possession of the ball. The new rule removed the benefit of fouling to gain possession of the ball and limited late-game intentional fouls to the ball handler.\n\nThe current version of the rule contains an additional disincentive to off-the-ball fouls: The free throws need not be attempted by the player who was fouled; the fouled team can choose as shooter any player on the court at the time.\n\nThe reason they have that rule is that fouling someone off-the-ball looks foolish . . . Some of the funniest things I ever saw were players that used to chase [Wilt Chamberlain] like it was hide-and-seek. Wilt would run away from people, and the league changed the rule based on how silly that looked.\n\nThere are several late-game situations where committing an isolated intentional foul makes sense. For a team trailing, late in the game, stopping the clock is a higher priority than keeping the opponents from scoring. In other situations, intentional fouling does not make sense because it typically lets the opponents score more points.\n\nIntentional fouling every time the opponents get the ball was an innovation of Don Nelson in the late 1990s as coach of the Dallas Mavericks. He theorized that, if the opponents played an especially bad free throw shooter, intentionally fouling him might hold down his team's points per possession, compared to a conventional defense against them. Nelson used the strategy throughout the game, when the late-game penalties for off-the-ball fouls did not apply, such as the ball being given back to the fouled team.\n\nNelson did not invent the strategy; his innovation was to take a strategy whose primary purpose had always been simply stopping the clock, and use it instead primarily to minimize the opposition's scoring.\n\nNelson first used the strategy against Dennis Rodman of the Chicago Bulls in 1997, who was making 38% of his free throws on the season. He could not use the strategy on every Bulls possession, as a player committing his sixth foul is disqualified from the game. He used the strategy selectively, and chose a little-used player, whose absence the team could tolerate, to commit the fouls. He believed that Rodman's horrific foul shooting would result in the Mavericks actually giving up fewer total points during those Bulls possessions than they would give up by playing a standard defense against the Bulls' efficient offense, led by Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen.\n\nIn that game, Rodman shot 9-for-12 from the free throw line, defeating the strategy, and the Bulls won the game. The strategy was thus largely forgotten, except that Maverick player Bubba Wells, who had been assigned to foul Rodman, set the all-time NBA record for fewest minutes played (3) before fouling out of a game.\n\nNelson used the strategy again in 1999, this time against Shaquille O'Neal, a career 52% free throw shooter. Other NBA coaches also did so to defend against O'Neal. So, even though it had been first used two years earlier against Rodman, the strategy became known for its use against O'Neal.\n\nAs with Chamberlain decades earlier, intentional off-the-ball fouls against O'Neal became controversial. During the 2000 NBA Playoffs, both the Portland Trail Blazers and Indiana Pacers relentlessly used the Hack-a-Shaq defense against the Lakers. The NBA discussed expanding the off-the-ball foul rule to cover more than just the final two minutes of the game, or another rule change that would discourage the use of Hack-a-Shaq. Ultimately, though, the NBA did not change any rules to discourage the Hack-a-Shaq strategy. An effective rebuttal was that the Lakers won both of the games where Hack-a-Shaq was notorious, suggesting that the strategy was too ineffective to require remediation.\n\nCoach Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs used the Hack-a-Shaq strategy successfully in Game 5 of the Spurs' 2008 first round series against O'Neal and the Phoenix Suns. O'Neal made only 9 of his 20 free throws, dropping the Suns to 20-of-37 total on free throws. The Suns were eliminated from the playoffs in a 92–87 Spurs win. In May 2008, ESPN.com columnist John Hollinger named the Spurs Hack-a-Shaq use as the \"Best Tactic\" of the first two rounds of the 2008 NBA Playoffs. Hollinger wrote that Popovich was the \"first to really master how to use this weapon to his advantage.\" He explained that Popovich used the tactic \"to eliminate 3-point attempts\" and with 25 seconds or less at the end of quarters to get the ball back for the Spurs to gain the last possession. Hollinger stated \"This should be a Eureka! moment for other coaches, and I expect it will be the league's most widely copied tactic next year.\"\n\nIn subsequent seasons, fans and media remained displeased with the continued use of the strategy, particularly in high-profile playoff games. In 2008, the NBA Competition Committee again considered rule changes but did not achieve consensus. According to an ESPN study in 2016, offensive efficiency was higher than the Golden State Warriors when the Hack-a-Shaq strategy was used against a team. NBA commissioner Adam Silver announced that the competition committee would look into changing the rule before the start of the 2016–2017 season due to extended length of games. It takes only three or more Hack-a-Shaq fouls to add 11 minutes to the length of a game, and at the time such fouls were being committed at a rate of four times more often than the prior season.\n\nThe Hack-a-Shaq strategy is most effective against a player who shoots free throws poorly, but is so effective in other areas that the coach is reluctant to simply remove the player from the game. Few players other than O'Neal meet those criteria.\n\nBen Wallace shot only 42% free throws over his career, the worst percentage in the history of the NBA among players with 1000 attempts. Bruce Bowen was also among the game's best defenders but among its worst free throw shooters. Because of their struggles at the free throw line, each man has at times become a target of the Hack-a-Shaq strategy.\n\nOn January 12, 2012, the Golden State Warriors hacked Orlando Magic center Dwight Howard intentionally throughout the game. The result was he attempted a record 39 free throws, breaking Wilt Chamberlain's record of 34 set in 1962. Howard entered the game making 42% of his free throws for the season and just below 60% for his career. He made 21 of the 39 attempts, and he finished with 45 points and 23 rebounds in the Magic's 117–109 victory. The following season, Howard was traded to the Lakers. In his first game back in Orlando on March 12, 2013, he made 25-of-39 free throws, setting Lakers records for free throws made and attempted while tying his NBA record for attempts. Howard made 16-of-20 free throws when he was fouled intentionally by the Magic.\n\nOn May 29, 2012, the Oklahoma City Thunder used a so-called hack-a-Splitter strategy on Tiago Splitter during Game 2 of Western Conference Final of 2012 NBA Playoffs, who made 5 of 10 Free throw attempts from these fouls.\n\nOn April 10, 2015, the San Antonio Spurs was reported to use this strategy on Josh Smith to keep the basketball away from the super-hot James Harden and San Antonio Spurs won this season game by 104–103.\n\nDuring the 2015 NBA Playoffs, Howard, then with the Houston Rockets, was again targeted often by opponents, particularly during round 2 against the Los Angeles Clippers. During Game 2, Howard shot 21 (converting 8) out of the 64 free throws for the Rockets. In turn, the Rockets targeted DeAndre Jordan, who had been victim of \"Hack-a-Jordan\" or \"Hack-a-DJ\" since 2014, and in particular was fouled five times in two minutes during the previous playoff round against the San Antonio Spurs. In Game 4, Jordan broke O'Neal's record for most free throw attempts in a half game with 28.\n\nOn January 20, 2016, Houston Rockets used Hack-a-Drummond against Detroit Pistons center Andre Drummond, and Drummond went 13 for 36 from the free throw line. Those 23 misses are an NBA record for most free throws missed by a player in a game. However, the Pistons would still win the game 123-114.\n\nIn the 2016–17 playoffs, Oklahoma City Thunder forward André Roberson was a victim of this strategy against the Houston Rockets in the first round of the playoffs. Roberson shot 3/21 in the series.\n\nOn November 29, 2017, the Washington Wizards used what a newspaper called a \"hack-a-Ben Simmons strategy\" when trailing the Philadelphia 76ers by 24 points in the third quarter. The Wizards repeatedly fouled 76ers point guard Ben Simmons, giving him 29 free throws, 24 of them in the fourth quarter. Simmons was a notoriously bad shooter and had entered the game with a 56% free throw rate. He shot free throws even worse in this game, making 15/29 (52%). However, the 76ers held on to win the game, 118-113. Simmons' 31 points were a career high for him at the time.\n\nDetractors argue that deliberate fouling makes the game unpleasant to watch, violates the spirit or disrupts the rhythm of the game, puts the fouling team too quickly into the penalty situation, and disparages the team's defensive abilities.\n\n\"All that did was allow us to set our defense. I think that's disrespectful to their players. Basically, they were telling their players that they couldn't guard us.\"\n\nMany coaches have heeded these criticisms and doubted the effectiveness of the strategy in minimizing scoring. One imponderable is the effect on the psychology of the player fouled deliberately on the belief that he will not make his free throws. Some believe that frequently sending O'Neal to the foul line risked putting him \"into a rhythm\" and temporarily making him a better shooter.\n\nThese factors, and the fact that there are only handful of players who satisfy the criteria for Hack-a-Shaq, mean that the strategy is uncommon in the NBA. A rule change starting in the 2016–17 NBA season put an additional constraint on deliberate fouling: Away-from-the-ball fouls now award the fouled team a free throw and possession of the ball in the final 2 minutes of \"each\" quarter, extended from the prior rule affecting only the final 2 minutes of the 4th quarter. The rule change sought to eliminate cases where teams would intentionally foul off-the-ball in order to gain the final possession of a quarter.\n"}
{"id": "1849947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849947", "title": "Labour and Social Justice – The Electoral Alternative", "text": "Labour and Social Justice – The Electoral Alternative\n\nLabour and Social Justice – The Electoral Alternative (, WASG) was a left-wing German political party founded in 2005 by activists disenchanted with the ruling Red-Green coalition government. On 16 June 2007 WASG merged with The Left Party.PDS to form The Left (\"Die Linke\"). At the time of its merger with The Left Party.PDS, WASG party membership stood at about 11,600 members.\n\nThe party ran for the first time in the 2005 state election of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's most populous state and a stronghold of the governing Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), with pastor Jürgen Klute as its front-runner. The party campaigned against what it considered \"the neoliberal consensus\" displayed by the governing centre-left political parties and the centre-right opposition alike. Some of its main issues were opposition to cuts in provision of social benefits and to the favourable taxation of the wealthy. In the first few months of existence, it received a large amount of news coverage, and had its first national convention from 6 May until 8 May 2005.\n\nOskar Lafontaine, a former major figure on the left wing of the SPD, joined the new party officially on 18 June 2005, and became their North Rhine-Westphalia frontrunner for the general election on 18 September 2005. As the necessary steps for a merger with the Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS) could not be taken fast enough, he advocated an electoral alliance with WASG members on the PDS's list, to which the WASG and PDS leaderships in principle agreed on 10 June 2005. The title of this list was The Left Party.PDS, which to this end - as a matter of formality - was adopted by the PDS as its new name, because changing a name was comparatively easy.\n\nThe anticipated fusion was later made official, with the WASG and The Left Party. PDS merging on 16 June 2007 to a party called simply The Left (\"Die Linke\") or also, colloquially, \"the Left Party\" (without \".PDS\").\n\nThe draft programmatic orientation was strongly influenced by the memorandums of the Working group for Alternative Economical Politics which counted one of the party's leading figures, economist Axel Troost, among its members. The programme pleaded for a policy that strengthens domestic demand and centres around social justice; part of the programme is the return to a more progressive taxation. First and foremost, the tax breaks for large corporations and high incomes introduced by the SPD-Green coalition federal government starting from 1999 would have to be abolished and the federal tax on assets, which had ceased in 1997, reintroduced. The draft programme would have to be discussed until the spring 2005.\n\nThe party emerged from the association \"Wahlalternative Arbeit und soziale Gerechtigkeit e. V.\" which had been founded on 3 July 2004. The association itself had started as the merger of the groups Initiative Arbeit und soziale Gerechtigkeit (mainly by Bavarian union representatives) and the Wahlalternative (\"Electoral Alternative\", founded by people in Northern and Western Germany). Both groups had been founded in reaction to the government politics as laid down in the Agenda 2010 programme of the governing \"Red-Green\" coalition, which they consider as too neoliberal. The first meeting of the Wahlalternative took place on 5 March 2004 in the Berlin headquarters of the Confederation of German Trade Unions (DGB).\n\nThe association had 4,056 members on 11 September 2004, the number rising to over 6,000 members shortly before Christmas 2004. The first organisation in one of the states was founded on 17 July 2004 in the Saarland; the first convention in North Rhine-Westphalia took place on 17 October 2004, and it was decided to take part in the 2005 regional elections in that state in spite of the party's unclear financial situation.\n\nThe association WAsG e. V., the party's \"birthplace\", continued to exist along with the party; its future purpose had still not been determined. It may be transferred into a political foundation similar to the ones kept by other German political parties.\n\nThe nascent party drew attention in the mass media because the foundation of a new left-wing party might have led to a schism in the SPD. Forerunners to such a development were the secession of the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (USPD) during World War I, the foundation of the Greens (although these were not founded by disaffected SPD members) in the late 1970s, and the Democratic Socialists (DS) party founded by Karl-Heinz Hansen und Manfred Coppik in the early 1980s.\n\nThe federal assembly in Nuremberg of the association WAsG e. V. (20 and 21 November 2004) decided to found a party, something that had never been ruled out as a possible outcome by members of the provisional leadership. After the strike vote among members in December 2004, the party was officially founded on 22 January 2005 in Göttingen. The party's name came into being as Arbeit und soziale Gerechtigkeit – Die Wahlalternative (the abbreviation ASG later had to be changed to WASG, due to a lawsuit).\n\nThere was a lot of controversy about the new party's political orientation among its members. While some liked to establish it as a purely leftist party of socialist inclination, many others, especially union representatives and former SPD members, aimed to provide a home also for social conservatives and religious people who believe in a strong welfare state. The argument escalated in February 2005 (shortly after the party's foundation) but was soothed through a compromise that was satisfactory for everyone. The compromise calls for a strict accord with welfare state orientation without excluding more socialist-minded members from the party.\n\nThe party decided to take part in the regional election in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's most populous state, on 22 May 2005. Eligibility was ensured in all regional counties, and pastor Jürgen Klute of Herne was the leading candidate of a 40-person-ticket.\n\nIn this regional election the WASG reached 2.2% of the votes cast (approximately 182,000 votes).\n\nAccording to a decision made by the District Court of Düsseldorf, the party was no longer allowed to officially use its abbreviation \"ASG\". The party had been sued by the \"Arbeitsgemeinschaft Sozialpädagogik und Gesellschaftsbild (ASG)\". As a result the abbreviation WASG\" has been unofficially adopted – with an equally unofficial slight reordering of the words in its name to fit the new abbreviation.\n\nAfter the crushing defeat of his SPD in the state elections in North Rhine-Westphalia, Federal Chancellor Schröder declared the intention of going for a general election as soon as possible, avoiding the completion of the regular term – which was to run until September 2006 – by the device of failing a vote, which took place on 1 July 2005. However, there are major constitutional issues which are to be settled by the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany. According to the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany, which incorporates lessons learned from the failed Weimar Republic, the Bundestag cannot dissolve itself or be dissolved by a political representative ahead of schedule, except under very rare circumstances.\n\nWhile the WASG hoped to gain a large enough membership and to raise enough money for an election campaign by the originally scheduled election date (some time in September 2006), it now faced the difficulty of an early election one year ahead of schedule – occurring on the date of 18 September 2005. Polls predicted an election result of at most 3% for the new party, well below the electoral threshold of 5%. In that situation, the idea of an electoral coalition with the ideologically similar Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS), led by Gregor Gysi, was put forward by Oskar Lafontaine.\n\nOn 10 June 2005, the leaderships of WASG and the PDS agreed to form an electoral alliance for the then-upcoming federal elections in September 2005. According to the agreement, the parties would not compete against one another in any district, and followed a joint electoral manifesto. This was intended to benefit both parties, because the WASG is based primarily in western Germany, while the PDS, which was the legal successor to the East German Socialist Unity Party (SED), is strongest in the East. Lafontaine, the former chairman of the SPD, was the WASG's lead candidate.\n\nAfter a multitude of initial problems due to the somewhat restrictive German electoral law, the PDS re-christened itself as \"Die Linkspartei\" (The Left Party) and appeared on the ballot as either \"Die Linkspartei.PDS\" – in the Eastern states – or \"Die Linkspartei.\" – in the Western states – in line with the WASG's wishes. WASG candidates appeared on those electoral lists.\n\nAs of 5 July 2005, the coalition was on 30% in the polls in the East (level with the CDU there), and 11% nationally.\nIn the Federal Election the Left Party gained 8.7% of the votes and 54 Members of the Bundestag, including 12 of the WASG.\n\nIn March 2006, however, divisions emerged between the WASG and the PDS – now The Left Party.PDS – in Berlin and the East more generally, in the run-up to state elections, due to the continuing involvement of the PDS with the SPD in coalition governments which were instituting cut-backs. The WASG Berlin, against advice or pressure from the national party leadership, announced its intention to run separate lists in Berlin \"against\" the PDS. The WASG list won 2.9% of the vote in the 17 September elections. The fusion process brought a significant loss in party memberships of WASG.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849949", "title": "Jeremy Wright", "text": "Jeremy Wright\n\nJeremy Paul Wright (born 24 October 1972) is a British lawyer and politician who served as Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport from 2018 to 2019. A member of the Conservative Party, he has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Kenilworth and Southam since 2010. Wright was first elected in 2005 as the MP for Rugby and Kenilworth, a constituency that was abolished at the next general election.\n\nHe served as Lord Commissioner of the Treasury from 12 May 2010 until his appointment as Minister of State for Prisons at the Ministry of Justice on 6 September 2012. He became Attorney General for England and Wales and Advocate General for Northern Ireland on 15 July 2014. Wright replaced Matt Hancock as Culture Secretary on 9 July 2018, serving in the post for a year until being sacked in July 2019 and returning to the back benches.\n\nWright was born in Taunton, Somerset. His parents were both teachers and he has one brother who served as a Commander in the Royal Navy. Wright was educated at two independent schools: Taunton School and Trinity School, New York City, before going to the University of Exeter, where he graduated as a Bachelor of Laws.\n\nHe was called to the Bar at the Inner Temple in 1996 and specialised in criminal law in the Midlands until his election to Parliament in 2005. He remains a member of No.5 Chambers in Birmingham but is officially listed as non-practising as of May 2013.\n\nWright was first elected to Parliament at the 2005 general election, when he won the seat of Rugby and Kenilworth from the sitting Labour MP Andy King who had represented the constituency since the 1997 general election. At the 2010 election he retained the newly created Kenilworth and Southam constituency, increasing his majority to 12,552.\n\nIn July 2007 Wright was appointed as an Opposition Whip and served as a Government Whip from 2010 until 2012, holding the office of Lord Commissioner of the Treasury. He served as a member of the Constitutional Affairs Select Committee between 2005 and 2007. In September 2012 Wright was appointed Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice. His specific responsibility was as Minister for Prisons and Rehabilitation. He was appointed Attorney General on 15 July 2014, replacing Dominic Grieve. For the purposes of this role, he was appointed a Queen's Counsel.\n\nWright set up the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Dementia in 2007.\n\nWright has generally supported the proposals for the HS2 London to Birmingham rail link which will run through his constituency. He has opposed some of the detailed original plans for the route, although supporting route changes made in 2010.\n\nIn 2016, Wright became the campaign manager for Stephen Crabb's leadership bid for the Conservative leadership election. Crabb withdrew from the contest after coming fourth in the first round and transferred his support to Theresa May.\n\nWright campaigned for the United Kingdom to remain in the European Union before the EU membership referendum on 23 June 2016.\n\nIn November 2016, Wright was criticised by a number of other Conservative MPs for his role in the Government's loss of a High Court case which gave MPs and peers a veto over when Brexit begins. Although it was suggested that he should resign as Attorney General, Wright retained his position.\n\nIn July 2018, after a series of resignations in May's cabinet after her decision of a \"Soft Brexit\" was reached at Chequers, Wright was appointed to Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, after Matt Hancock was moved to become Secretary of State for Health and Social Care.\n\nWith Sajid Javid in late 2018, Wright warned social media firms that \"the era of self-regulation is coming to an end\" with regard to extremist content and announced a forthcoming 'online harms white paper', published in April 2019, which is expected to introduce legal regulation of online publishers and social media, including new censorship rules.\n\nWright has defended his expenses claims as an MP, including claiming nearly £3,000 for the purchase of furniture for a flat in London after he became an MP in 2005. He repaid £46.71 over-claimed for council tax in 2007–08 after a \"genuine mistake\". He also claimed just under £800 in mobile phone call charges which he was ordered to repay. He appealed the decision to order repayment of these expenses, claiming that he had requested permission to charge an amount for mobile phone calls as he did not have a landline installed in his London flat. Wright succeeded in his appeal and was not required to repay the amount claimed for mobile phone calls. Wright published errors on his website in 2009, placing political links on it, an activity banned if costs for the site are paid for from Parliamentary expenses, although he was not required to repay the expenses claimed in this instance.\n\nHe married Yvonne Salter in 1998, with whom he has a son and a daughter. He and his wife live in the village of Shrewley in Warwickshire.\n\nIn November 2018, Wright revealed that he likes to unwind by spending time with his \"very large\" Lego collection. Wright described assembling lego bricks as \"therapeutic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1849950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849950", "title": "Anoushiravan Rohani", "text": "Anoushiravan Rohani\n\nAnoushiravan Rohani (; born July 24, 1939), also spelled Anooshiravan Rowhani, is an Iranian pianist and composer. He is known for composing and conducting contemporary classical music, as well as pop music with light classical leaning. He has also composed a number of scores to Iranian films.\n\nBorn in Rasht, in the Gilan Province of Iran in 1939, Rohani received music lessons from his father, himself a poet and violinist. His brothers, Shahrdad Rohani, Ardeshir Rohani and Shahriar Rohani are also musicians. When Rohani was nine years old he had his first song broadcast on Iranian National Radio network.\n\nRohani later studied piano with pianist Javad Maroufi at the Persian National Music Conservatory in Tehran.\n\nBesides piano, Rohani mastered the electronic organ and accordion. In 1958, Anoushirvan officially began his long collaboration with the National Iranian Radio. Rohani's career includes over 500 compositions that feature vocals, orchestral arrangements, piano pieces and film scores, among them \"Soltan-e-Ghalbhaa\", \"Dele Kuchuloo,\" and \"Gol-e-Sang.\"\n\nAfter the Iranian Revolution of 1979, Rohani continued his composing in the Western world, principally based in Los Angeles and Germany, where he recorded albums under the MZM record label.\n\nRohani worked with orchestras outside of Iran, including the Czech Symphony Orchestra in Prague, which performed the orchestral pieces from his album 'Symphonic Love Melodies.\n\nThe albums listed below are from his post-revolutionary compositions:\n\n\nRohani composed the Persian equivalent of \"Happy Birthday\" entitled \"Tavalodet Mobarak\" (lit. \"blessed be your birthday\"). It is commonly sung at Persian birthday parties (dedicated to his nephew Shervin Shaffiy).\n\n"}
{"id": "1849957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849957", "title": "Astrakhan Airlines", "text": "Astrakhan Airlines\n\nAstrakhan Airlines was an airline based in Astrakhan, Russia. It operated scheduled and chartered, domestic and international passenger and cargo flights out of Narimanovo Airport, Astrakhan.\n\nAstrakhan Airlines was established in 1994 and was owned by the Board of Directors (65%), the local Concrete Structures Plant (a Gazprom subsidiary) (25%) and employees and investors (10%). In 2005, the airline was shut down.\n\nUpon closure, Astrakhan Airlines operated scheduled flights to the following destinations: \n\n\nThe Astrakhan Airlines fleet consisted of only one Tupolev Tu-134 aircraft.\n"}
{"id": "1849958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849958", "title": "De Providentia", "text": "De Providentia\n\nDe Providentia (\"On Providence\") is a short essay in the form of a dialogue in six brief sections, written by the Latin philosopher Seneca (died AD 65) in the last years of his life. He chose the dialogue form (as in the well-known Plato's works) to deal with the problem of the co-existence of the Stoic design of providence with the evil in the world.\n\nThe work cannot be precisely dated, but since it is addressed to Lucilius, who is the addressee of some of Seneca's final works including his \"Letters\", and since the essay has similarities to letters 106, 108, and 109\nthen the work is usually considered a late one dating to around 64 AD.\n\nThe full title of the work is \"Quare bonis viris multa mala accidant, cum sit providentia\" (\"Why do misfortunes happen to good men, if providence exists\"). This longer title reflects the true theme of the essay which is not so much concerned with providence but with theodicy and the question of why bad things happen to good people.\n\nThe dialogue is opened by Lucilius complaining with his friend Seneca that adversities and misfortunes can happen to good men too. How can this fit with the goodness connected with the design of providence? Seneca answers according to the Stoic point of view. Nothing actually bad can happen to the good man (the wise man) because opposites don't mix. What looks like adversity is in fact a means by which the man exerts his virtues. As such, he can come out of the ordeal stronger than before.\n\nSo, in perfect harmony with the Stoic philosophy, Seneca explains that the truly wise man can never surrender in the face of misfortunes but as he will always go through them and even if he should fall he will continue fighting on his knees (\"\"si cecidit de genu pugnat\"\"). \nThe wise man understands destiny and its design, and therefore he has nothing to fear from the future. Neither does he hope for anything, because he already has everything he needs – his good behaviour.\n\nThe conclusion is that actually nothing bad happens to good men. One just has to understand what \"bad\" means: \"bad\" for the wise man would be to have bad thoughts, to commit crimes, to desire money or fame. Whoever behaves wisely already has all the good possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849972", "title": "KTBS-TV", "text": "KTBS-TV\n\nKTBS-TV, virtual channel 3 (UHF digital channel 28), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Shreveport, Louisiana, United States and also serving Texarkana, Texas. The station is owned by the locally based KTBS, LLC (owned by the Wray Properties Trust, which is managed by Betty Wray Anderson, John D. Wray, and Edwin N. Wray, Jr.), as part of a duopoly with Minden-licensed CW affiliate KPXJ (channel 21). The two stations share studios on East Kings Highway on the eastern side of Shreveport and transmitter facilities near St. Johns Baptist Church Road (southeast of Mooringsport and Caddo Lake) in rural northern Caddo Parish. KTBS-TV is one of a handful of TV stations today to have locally based ownership.\n\nOn cable, the station is available on Comcast Xfinity channels 4 (standard definition) and 1003 (high definition) in Shreveport; Suddenlink channel 5 (SD and HD) in Bossier City; NewWave Communications channels 7 (SD) and 200 (HD) in Blanchard, Vivian, Springhill and Mansfield; and Cable One channels 3 (SD) and 1003 (HD) in Texarkana and Fouke, Arkansas. KTBS is also carried on some cable providers in the Tyler–Longview–Lufkin–Nacogdoches market (alongside local ABC affiliates KLTV and KTRE) in East Texas, although certain programs are subject to blackout due to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s network non-duplication and syndication exclusivity rules.\n\nThe VHF channel 3 allocation was contested between three groups that competed for approval by the FCC to be the holder of the construction permit to build and license to operate a new television station on the first commercial VHF allocation to be assigned to Shreveport. On June 27, 1952, one week before the FCC released a Report and Order reallocation memorandum that lifted a four-year moratorium on new television broadcast license applications, Shreveport-based KTBS Inc. (a family-led group owned by George D. Wray Sr., Edwin N. Wray Sr., George D. Wray Jr., Charles W. Wray and John A. Hendrick) filed the initial application for the permit. Another Shreveport-based company, International Broadcasting Corp. (a consortium that owned local radio station KWKH [1130 AM and 94.5 FM; the latter is now KRUF] and was managed by William H. Bronson, Robert Ewing Jr., Wilson Ewing, Henry R. Clay and Toulmin Brown, the latter of whom was an assistant secretary principal to \"Shreveport Times\" parent Times Publishing Co.), filed its own application for the permit on July 3.\n\nA wrench in International Broadcasting's application was a concurring proposed merger between Shreveport's two major daily newspapers, the \"Shreveport Times\" and the \"Shreveport Journal\". On December 4, 1953, the FCC Broadcast Bureau reversed a hearing examiner's decision and approved KTBS Inc.'s request to subpoena International Broadcasting/KWKH for a \"merger\" agreement between the \"Times\" and the \"Journal\", contending that the testimony of KWKH president William H. Bronson in respect to the agreement alone was insufficient and that the agreement be submitted for review in judging the KWKH application. KTBS Inc. respesentatives contended the agreement was relevant \"because the [Times Publishing Company and the Journal Publishing Company, the newspapers' respective owners] publish the only major newspapers in Shreveport\" and because Times Publishing would be the business agent for both newspapers and exert control of KWKH. On June 16, 1954, FCC Hearing Examiner Basil Cooper issued an initial decision looking to grant the construction permit application for channel 3 to KTBS Inc. The FCC Broadcast Bureau granted exclusive rights to the permit to Shreveport Television Company on February 16, 1955, formally denying KRMD and Southland Television's respective bids, finding that KTBS Inc. was a more qualified permittee due to its local ownership, integration of ownership and management, and had more extensive participation by its ownership in local affairs.\n\nThe KWKH application was denied due to critical deficiencies under FCC's diversification of media of communications policy, citing its ownership of two clear channel radio stations (KWKH-AM and KTHS [now KAAY] in Little Rock, Arkansas) and its parent's ownership of three newspapers (the \"Times\", and the \"Monroe Morning World\" and \"The News-Star\" in Monroe) in neighboring states would produce a concentration of broadcast and newspaper facilities by a single company, but noted that the \"Times\"s joint printing agreement with the \"Shreveport Journal\" produced \"no disservice to the public interest\" due to the lack of a forced combination in print advertising. (A petition by KWKH to reconsider the grant of the channel 3 permit to KTBS Inc. was denied in May 1955, with the FCC admonishing KWKH for \"repetitious[...], reckless and unsupported\" charges in its petition that a KTBS principal witness committed perjury, and its \"assertions and insinuations\" that the agency did not give \"fair, impartial\" consideration to the evidence submitted; a subsequent appeal by International Broadcasting/KWKH seeking to overturn the grant, was denied by the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana in March 1956.) The Wray-led group subsequently requested and received approval to assign KTBS-TV as the television station's call letters; the base KTBS callsign – standing for \"Tri-State Broadcasting System,\" the moniker that the Wrays used for the other radio stations they owned in Louisiana, Texas and Arkansas – had been used by the Wray-owned namesake radio station on 710 AM (now KEEL) since 1929, and applied to its FM sister on 96.5 (now KVKI-FM) upon its sign-on in 1953. (The calls can also be taken to reference the three cities in its service area, \"Texarkana, Bossier, Shreveport\".)\nKTBS-TV first signed on the air on September 3, 1955; it was the third television station to sign on in the present day Shreveport–Texarkana market and the second to be licensed to Shreveport, after Shreveport-based KSLA (channel 12), which signed on the air on January 1, 1954; and Texarkana, Texas-licensed KCMC-TV (channel 6, now KTAL-TV), which debuted on August 16, 1953. The station originally operated as a primary NBC affiliate, owing to KTBS radio's longtime relationship with the progenitor NBC Red Network. It also maintained a secondary affiliation with ABC, the rights to which it shared with KSLA-TV, which had carried a secondary affiliation with that network since it signed on. The station has maintained studio facilities located at 312 East Kings Highway since its inception, sharing its facility with KTBS radio. The radio stations were sold off in the late 1950s, but the Wrays (who are also the owners of a car dealership franchise in Shreveport) have retained channel 3 to this day.\n\nIn March 1961, NBC reached an agreement with KCMC-TV to become the network's primary affiliate for the enlarged Shreveport–Texarkana market. KCMC owner Camden News Publishing Co. – which, in 1960, received permission to move the station's transmitter to a site south-southwest of Vivian, in a move that would consolidate Shreveport and Texarkana into a single television market – was in the process of expanding its service area to encompass and its primary operations to serve the Shreveport area. KTBS's contract with NBC was not scheduled to expire until September 1962, though, with the planned relocation of KCMC to cover Shreveport, there had been speculation that KTBS and KTAL would swap primary affiliations before the contract was set to expire. On September 3, 1961, KTAL took over as the exclusive NBC affiliate for the Shreveport–Texarkana market; KTBS-TV concurrently became the market's exclusive ABC affiliate as well as the second full-time ABC affiliate in the state of Louisiana (after WVUE-TV [now a Fox affiliate] in New Orleans, which became a full-time ABC station in 1957). Over the years, KTBS has become one of the strongest ABC affiliates in the country. In an era where most broadcast television stations are owned by large broadcasting companies that own multiple stations, KTBS is one of the few major network affiliates that has remained under local ownership. It became the first of the local big three affiliates in Shreveport and second television station in the market to launch stereo broadcasting, doing so in May 1987.\n\nIn January 1999, KTBS, LLC assumed partial operational responsibilities for Pax TV owned-and-operated station KPXJ (channel 21) under a joint sales agreement (JSA) with its owner at the time, Paxson Communications (now Ion Media Networks). Under the terms of the agreement, which was modeled similarly to other outsourcing agreements between Paxson and an owner of a local major network affiliate during that timeframe, KTBS also rebroadcast its 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts on channel 21. On June 17, 2003, Paxson announced it would sell KPXJ to KTBS, LLC for $10 million; the FCC rejected the application as agency ownership rules prohibited common ownership of two television stations in a single market if there are fewer than eight independent full-power station owners. As such, Paxson reached an agreement to sell the KPXJ license to Minden Television Company LLC (owned by Lauren Wray Ostendorff, daughter of Edwin N. Wray Jr., part-owner of KTBS), an indirect subsidiary of Wray Properties Trust, for $10 million. After the purchase was finalized, the Wrays converted KPXJ into the market's UPN affiliate.\n\nOn December 30, 2008, KTBS, LLC (by way of Wray Properties Trust) filed an application with the FCC to purchase KPXJ from Minden Television for $10.3 million, which would create the market's first (and only) legal television duopoly. As the Shreveport–Texarkana market has only eight full-power television stations (the minimum required to create a duopoly under FCC rules), it is the only duopoly legally allowed in the market. KTBS, LLC included in its license transfer request a \"failing station waiver,\" indicating that KPXJ was in an economically non-viable position—noting that the station had lost revenue for the previous three years, and had averaged only a 1 audience share point for all but two sweeps ratings books while never reaching over a 4% share—and that FCC should relax ownership limits that apply to the Shreveport–Texarkana market so that Channel 21 could stay on the air; that limit (found in CFR§73.3555(b)(2) of the FCC's rules) permits ownership duopolies in markets with at least eight full-power stations, whereas Shreveport–Texarkana has only seven. The transfer was completed on August 3 of that year, officially making KTBS-TV and KPXJ directly owned sister stations.\n\nKTBS-DT2 is the Local AccuWeather Channel-affiliated second digital subchannel of KTBS-TV, broadcasting in widescreen standard definition on UHF digital channel 28.2 (or virtual channel 3.2 via PSIP). On cable, KTBS-DT2 is available on Xfinity digital channel 222 in Shreveport, Suddenlink digital channel 139 in Bossier City, and Cable One channel 28 in Texarkana.\n\nKTBS launched a digital subchannel on virtual channel 3.2 in 2004, which originally carried a live feed of the station's Doppler radar – known as \"Mega 3 Doppler\" – accompanied by an audio simulcast of NOAA Weather Radio station WXJ97. In April 2008, the subchannel became an affiliate of The Local AccuWeather Channel, under the brand \"KTBS 24-Hour Weather\". Alongside carrying regional and national forecast segments provided by the AccuWeather-operated network, KTBS also produces pre-recorded local forecast segments presented by meteorologists from the station's \"Storm Team 3\" weather staff – which are updated two to three times per day – for the subchannel. In 2014, the subchannel switched to primarily carrying simulcasts of pre-recorded weather updates in 15-minute intervals as well as loops of weather radar and satellite imagery, and near-real-time video from the station's various SkyCams around the Ark-La-Tex (accompanied by a ticker showing current conditions from both primary observation sites and station-volunteered cooperative observers, and three-day weather forecasts for cities within the KTBS viewing area).\n\nKTBS-DT3 is the local news-formatted third digital subchannel of KTBS-TV, broadcasting in widescreen standard definition on UHF digital channel 28.3 (or virtual channel 3.3 via PSIP). On cable, KTBS-DT3 is available on Xfinity digital channel 201 in Shreveport, Suddenlink digital channel 140 in Bossier City, and Cable One channel 29 in Texarkana. The subchannel is also available as a livestream via KTBS-TV's website.\n\nOn September 1, 2002, KTBS launched KTBS Cable News, a 24-hour local cable news channel that was originally available on Comcast in Shreveport and Cox Communications (which sold its northwestern Louisiana systems to Cebridge Connections [now Suddenlink Communications] in May 2006) in Bossier City that primarily aired simulcasts of KTBS's morning, midday and evening newscasts as well as rolling repeats of the station's most recently aired newscast. KTBS Cable News shifted to an over-the-air simulcast on virtual channel 3.3 in July 2005; as a result, the service began carrying a three-hour block of educational programming aimed at older children and teenagers on Saturday afternoons to fulfill subchannel compliance guidelines included in the Children's Television Act.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKTBS-TV discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 3, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 28, using PSIP to display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 3.\n\nKTBS-TV currently broadcasts the complete ABC network schedule (it did not begin clearing the entire network lineup until April 2018, when it reduced its Sunday 5:00 p.m. newscast to a half-hour in order to start carrying the Sunday edition of \"ABC World News Tonight\", which had been preempted by KTBS since the mid-1990s.)\n\nThe station may preempt some ABC programs in order to air long-form breaking news or severe weather coverage, or occasional specials produced by KTBS' news department. ABC shows preempted or otherwise interrupted by such content may either be rebroadcast on tape delay over KTBS' main channel in place of regular overnight programs. Station personnel also gives viewers who subscribe to AT&T U-verse, DirecTV, Dish Network and other pay television providers within the KTBS viewing area that do not carry KTBS-DT2 the option of watching the affected shows on ABC's desktop and mobile streaming platforms or its cable/satellite video-on-demand service the day after their initial airing. Syndicated programs broadcast by KTBS-TV include \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\", \"The Wendy Williams Show\", \"Jeopardy!\", \"Inside Edition\" and \"Dr. Phil\".\n\nFor many years, one of the most watched Sunday programs on KTBS has been \"The First Word\", broadcasts of the morning worship services at the large First Baptist Church of Bossier City that began airing on channel 3 in June 1983. KTBS was the market's broadcaster of the Louisiana Lottery's televised drawings from the lottery's inception in 1993 until April 2009, when the rights to the midday and evening drawings were acquired by KTAL; KTBS re-acquired the rights to the drawings in 2012, and now air on sister station KPXJ at 9:59 p.m., with a replay being carried on channel 3 during \"KTBS 3 News at 10:00\".\n\nKTBS aired the \"Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon\" for several decades leading up to 2015, when the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) discontinued the telethon; nearly all of its tenure carrying the telethon was spent as the Ark-La-Tex region's \"Love Network\" affiliate, having raised hundreds of thousands of dollars to benefit the organization. KTBS was, due to the long-time ABC affiliation, one of the few \"Love Network\" affiliates to still air the telethon during its last two years (as the \"MDA Show of Strength\"), during which time it was aired as part of the ABC network schedule (on September 1, 2013, and again on its last telecast, August 31, 2014). Other fundraisers held by the station include the KTBS M*A*S*H B*A*S*H Blood Drive, and the St. Jude Dream Home Giveaway (its participation in the latter was notable for being the giveaway's first television broadcast partner in the U.S.).\n\n, KTBS-TV broadcasts 33½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours each weekday and three hours each on Saturdays and Sundays); in regards to the number of hours devoted to news programming, it is the highest local newscast output among all broadcast television stations in the Shreveport–Texarkana market. In addition, KTBS-TV produces an additional 17 hours of locally produced newscasts each week for KPXJ (with three hours each on weekdays and one hour each on Saturday and Sundays), along with producing the hour-long high school football highlight show \"Friday Football Fever\", which airs on KPXJ on Friday nights during the fall months. In total, KTBS produces 50½ hours of local newscasts each week between the two stations.\n\nIn addition to the station's main studios on Kings Highway, KTBS operates a news bureau located on Jefferson Avenue in Texarkana, Arkansas. During the weeknight 6:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts, the station airs news segments featuring stories from the East Texas area. KTBS may simulcast its long-form severe weather coverage on KTBS-DT2 and/or KPXJ in the event that a tornado warning is issued for any county in its Ark-La-Tex viewing area.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and early 1990s, KTBS became engaged in very competitive race with CBS affiliate KSLA for first place in overall news viewership, occasionally trading places with one another in certain time periods. At present, channel 3 generally places second, behind KSLA, in the early and late evening time periods among total viewers. During the May 2008 ratings period, KTBS's newscasts placed number one in several time periods.\n\nIn September 2000, in conjunction with the joint sales agreement that Paxson had signed with KTBS-TV, KPXJ began airing tape delayed rebroadcasts of that station's 5:00 and 10:00 p.m. newscasts Monday through Fridays at 5:30 and 10:30 p.m. (the latter beginning shortly before that program's live broadcast ended on channel 3). The rebroadcasts were discontinued on September 1, 2003, coinciding with the station's assumption of the UPN affiliation and the transfer of KPXJ to the Wray family's stewardship. On that date, KTBS began producing a nightly, half-hour prime time newscast at 9:00 p.m. for channel 21 (the first locally produced prime time newscast to be offered in the Shreveport–Texarkana market); that program, which utilizes the same format as the 10:00 p.m. newscast on KTBS, expanded to a full hour on August 3, 2009. On September 12, 2005, KTBS began producing a half-hour weekday 7:00 a.m. newscast for KPXJ, predating the debut of a two-hour-long 7:00 a.m. newscast on Fox affiliate KMSS-TV (channel 33) by two years. (That newscast was expanded to one hour in February 2012, and was later shifted to 9:00 a.m. in September 2013, placing it in direct competition with a half-hour newscast in that slot on KSLA).\n\nOn October 15, 2008, KTBS began broadcasting its newscasts in widescreen standard definition. On June 28, 2010, KTBS expanded its 6:00 p.m. newscast to one hour, becoming the first station in the market to carry an hour-long 6:00 p.m. newscast (CBS affiliate KSLA began broadcasting an hour-long 6:00 p.m. newscast a short time later); as a result, KTAL is the only Big Three affiliate in the market to carry syndicated programming during the 6:30 half-hour. In July 2010, KTBS expanded the weekend edition of its 10:00 p.m. newscast to one hour (again, KSLA quickly followed suit with an hour-long newscast at 10:00 p.m. on weekends).\n\nOn August 30, 2010, KTBS expanded its weekday morning newscasts to 2½ hours, by moving its start time to 4:30 a.m. (one of the few stations in a non-Top 50 Nielsen market to begin their weekday morning newscast at 4:30). On October 14, 2010, beginning with the station's 5:00 p.m. newscast, KTBS became the first television station in the Shreveport–Texarkana market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition (rival KSLA began producing its news programming in high definition the next morning).\n\nIn December 2012, KTBS became ensnared over the controversial firing of meteorologist Rhonda Lee. The station claims that she (and another newscaster) were fired for violating the station's policy on responding to Facebook comments, while supporters of Lee claim that she was fired for her decision to respond to a racist and sexist comment. On August 22, 2016, KTBS began producing an hour-long weekday afternoon newscast at 4:00 p.m. for KPXJ (titled \"KTBS 3 News at 4:00 on KPXJ 21\"), making it the first television station in the market to offer a local newscast to air in that timeslot. (The program would soon gain a competitor when KSLA launched its own hour-long 4:00 p.m. newscast two weeks later on September 7.)\n\n\nKTBS is carried on various cable providers outside of the Shreveport-Texarkana market. The station is carried as far as Longview, Texas to the west, Mount Pleasant, Texas to the northwest, El Dorado, Arkansas to the northeast, Jonesboro, Louisiana to the southeast, and Carthage, Texas to the southwest.\n\nThe station became one of two default ABC affiliates (alongside KLAX-TV in Alexandria) for the Monroe–El Dorado market after that market's ABC affiliate, KARD-TV, became a Fox affiliate in April 1994; the market would not receive an ABC affiliate of its own again until KAQY signed on the air in December 1998 (that station would go dark in 2014, and return to the air the next year as a MeTV station; ABC is now carried in the market on KNOE's 8.2 subchannel identifying itself as KAQY).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849975", "title": "Atlant-Soyuz Airlines", "text": "Atlant-Soyuz Airlines\n\nAtlant-Soyuz Airlines (), known as Moscow Airlines () during 2010-2011, was an airline based in Moscow, Russia, that operated domestic and international passenger flights out of Vnukovo International Airport from 1993 to 2011.\n\nOJSC Atlant-Soyuz Airlines was founded and started operations in June 1993, offering passenger and cargo flights using Soviet-build aircraft. The first Boeing airplane was added to the fleet in 2006. In 2007, the company was owned by private investors (75 percent) and the City of Moscow (25 percent) and had 726 employees. Initial plans for a joint-venture with US-based cargo airline Evergreen International Airlines where brought forth in 2007, but never materialized.\nOn 17 September 2010, the airline was rebranded as Moscow Airlines. Following this step, all Ilyushin Il-76 cargo aircraft were removed from the fleet, marking the end of dedicated cargo flights. On 17 January 2011, Moscow Airlines discontinued all flight activities, and the company went into liquidation.\n\nIn December 2010, Moscow Airlines served the following scheduled destinations:\n\nAs of November 2010, Moscow Airlines operated a fleet of 8 Boeing 737 aircraft with an average age of 12.8 years for scheduled passenger flights. Additionally, it owned several older Tupolev and Ilyushin aircraft, which mostly served on charter routes.\n"}
{"id": "1849977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849977", "title": "Ragman (comics)", "text": "Ragman (comics)\n\nRagman (Rory Regan) is a fictional character, a superhero and mystic vigilante who appears in American comic books published by DC Comics.\n\nRagman appeared in the fifth season of the television series \"Arrow\", played by actor Joe Dinicol.\n\nRagman first appeared in the short-lived 1976-77 five-issue comic book series named after him. He is one of a number of Jewish superheroes, and his continuity is tied to that of DC Comics' Golem, derived from the Golem of Prague of Jewish folklore. Ragman was created by writer Robert Kanigher and artist Joe Kubert.\n\nA Vietnam veteran, Rory Regan had grown up helping his father, a junk man who owned a pawn shop named Rags 'n' Tatters. His father always dreamed of making a better life for Rory and constantly promised that someday he would make Rory rich. While drinking with his friends one night, his father discovered 2 million United States dollars stuffed inside an old mattress that had been pawned just recently. He and his friends decided to hide the money for Rory, since they were too old to truly benefit from it. The money turned out to be the loot from an armored car heist and when the hoods came to the shop to get it, they shot down some electrical wires and used them to torture Rory's father and his friends into revealing where the money was hidden. Rory arrived soon after and, seeing his father in agony, attempted to free him from the wires. A final shock of power ran through the old men and grounded out at Rory, knocking him unconscious. When he regained consciousness, his father and friends were dead and the hoods responsible were gone. Using a costume made out of old rags (his father had bought it from a stranger before he died and left a note saying Rory could wear it to a costume party) he became Ragman, \"the Tatterdemalion of Justice.\" Rory appeared to have gained the physical abilities of the men who were electrocuted as they were all touching when the final blow of electricity flew through them and into Rory. He had an acrobat's agility, a strongman's strength, and a boxer's skills.\n\nIn his Pre-\"Crisis\" incarnation, Rory Regan was Irish, not Jewish, as explicitly stated in the letters page of \"Ragman\" #3.\n\nRory Regan is a ragman, doing good in his community by buying used items from people who need money. The suit of rags that he wears, as mentioned above, was originally just a costume made from materials found around the rag shop, Rags'n'Tatters, that he shared with his father. This was retconned in a 1991-92 eight-issue limited series, and currently each of the patches in the suit is made from the soul of an evildoer that Ragman had punished and absorbed.\n\nThe absorption of these souls caused a problem for Rory at one point, when the evil souls hungered for murder and finally freed themselves of Ragman. It was only with the support of Batman and Rory's old friend, Rabbi Luria, that he regained control, though at the cost of Luria's life. Ragman's powers have increased since then. Currently, he can absorb souls into his costume. With each new soul added, a rag is added. He can call upon the souls in his costume to lend him their attributes or power. He is also a very proficient magic user.\n\nDuring the \"Day of Judgment\" limited series, Ragman was active in destroying many of the demons invading Earth. This would earn him the wrath of the \"Diablos\", a group of demons who style themselves after the Mafia. Wanting to gain revenge for demons lost during the Day of Judgment, they attack Ragman, injuring him and tearing off parts of his costume. They believe him to be dead but this is not true.\n\nRagman is one of the members of Shadowpact, a team that formed to confront the Spectre in DC Comics 2005 \"Day of Vengeance\" limited series, a lead-up to the seven-issue \"Infinite Crisis\" limited series.\n\nDuring the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline, Ragman and Nightshade are seen standing side by side as part of the line of superheroes defending Metropolis from attack from dozens of villains.\n\nDuring the series \"Day Of Vengeance\", Ragman is one of the few volunteers willing to take on the rampaging Spectre, who has decided that all magic is evil. During a planning session, he is taken aside by the Enchantress and given a mystical gun. She entrusts him with it, as it can kill her if she goes too far with her magic, a scenario that she believes is all too possible. He tells her if she truly turns evil, his costume will take her. He then tries to kiss her, but his feelings are not returned and Enchantress even mocks him for it in front of the other heroes.\n\nIn the \"Shadowpact\" series, Ragman, along with his teammates, was trapped inside a shield of solid blood that grew over the town of Riverrock, Wyoming. Ragman and the rest of the team spend a very short period of time inside the shield, but due to magical after-effects, a full year passes outside. Various mystical heroes, such as Phantom Stranger and Rex the Wonder Dog keep watch outside the town's borders.\n\nWhile inside Riverrock, Rory met an evil counterpart of himself belonging to the supervillain group that had formed the shield, the Pentacle. His counterpart is named Bagman. He/it dresses in similar green garb, and can turn his body to goo and absorb people while in this form. While inside Bagman they either suffocate or they are digested. Bagman even mentioned how oddly similar the Shadowpact and the Pentacle are. Rory only survives this encounter because Bagman's boss does not want the heroes to be killed. After the Riverock encounter, Rory must deal with the severe disruption to his life, as everyone had thought he was dead. He, like most of the team, ends up having to find a new source of income, a place to stay and the oddity of encountering a memorial statue to the entire team.\n\nIn \"Shadowpact\" #8, Rory was temporarily trapped in the limbo dimension of his own cloak. He met the soul of an ancient centurion working off his crimes. This man, Marcus Liberius, first saved him from the beating several other of the murderous souls were giving Rory. Marcus reveals that the cloak was actually the \"Great Collector Artifact\", which has been in existence in many forms since the time of Abraham. Ragmen in Rory's line have been in action since 1812 BCE. Marcus also helped Rory, who had become disenchanted with the job of collecting corrupted souls, to see that he is not a punisher but a redeemer — allowing a better afterlife for those who work for it. This work usually takes the form of suffering on Rory's behalf. For example, Rory had been recently blinded by magic. Marcus willingly takes this blindness on, adding to previous injuries he had suffered. This last sacrifice allows Marcus, in the full view of the rest of the Shadowpact, to ascend to a higher realm.\n\nRory, along with Nightmaster and Nightshade, attempted to teleport to Washington D.C to break up a bank robbery. They were trapped in mid-transit in the Land of Nightshades. During this time it was suggested that he is attracted to team member Nightshade.\n\nIn \"Trinity\" #18, Ragman appears to save a man from a gang of muggers, when reality has apparently been warped and there is no \"Trinity\" of Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman, and apparently never has been. Ragman is joined by a sidekick named Tatters, wearing a green tattered hoodless costume and mask. At first, he is seen confronting an alternate version of Green Arrow, a vigilante on the service of the wealthy who ignores the poor, and later, due to a chronal blast, is seen assuming Batman's position as premier vigilante of Gotham.\n\nRagman briefly appears in \"The Network\" one-shot for the \"Battle for the Cowl\" storyline, assisting Cassandra Cain and the Huntress in tracking down a group of hostages around Gotham. After removing the duct tape from the mouth of a gagged woman, Ragman proceeds to counsel her for her apparent drug addiction, telling her that she will never truly be free until she takes hold of her life.\n\nDuring the 2009-2010 \"Blackest Night\" storyline, Nekron completely shut down Ragman's suit by using the Black Lantern rings to reanimate all the souls attached to his body.\n\nIn October 2010, Ragman starred in the one-shot \"Ragman: Suit of Souls\". It was written by Christos Gage and drawn by Stephen Segovia.\n\nLater, Ragman is shown aiding the JLA during their mission into Hell, where he helps Green Arrow defeat the demon Anger.\n\nRory Regan is the owner of the book and antique shop Rags 'n Tatters who moonlights as the costumed vigilante Ragman.\n\nAt his shop, Rory Regan appraised a Celtic amulet as being nearly 500 years old - and worth more than he could pay out. His customer's urgency and insistence in selling the amulet made him suspicious that it had been stolen, but the man insisted that it was just an heirloom. Reluctantly, Rory offered $750, and the man accepted, hurrying away. Despite getting a deal, Rory worried that he would regret the purchase.\n\nAbove his shop, Rory was roused from his sleep by a ghostly voice, warning that he was needed. He hurried down stairs to find a pair of thugs attempting to steal an ancient artifact from his safe in the shop. Angry, he followed them in the uniform of Ragman. Rory followed the thieves to their employer, where the remaining cultists intended to use Clayface and the stolen artifact to resurrect Morgaine le Fey.\n\nAt the cost of Clayface's discomfort, the Arthurian witch succeeded in returning to life in the present. While too late to prevent her revival, Ragman joined up with Etrigan and Batwoman to fight her, introducing himself as his alias. When Etrigan, desperate to destroy the witch, broke a gas main in the old house the ritual took place in and breathed his fire on it, Ragman, Batwoman, and the now-amnesiac Clayface had barely any time to get out of range of the resultant explosion, but managed it. According to Etrigan, who also survived, it was likely that Morgaine also managed to live through the explosion.\n\nKnowing that Clayface belonged in Arkham Asylum, but that Morgaine could easily break him free on a moment's notice from there, Ragman offered to assuage Batwoman's worries thereof by taking Clayface into his own custody, hoping to help him find his memories. The group parted ways, and Etrigan promised that when next the time came to fight, he would be there.\n\nRory Regan dumped Clayface into his bathtub, for once thankful for being single and thus not needing to explain himself to anyone. Hungry, he checked his fridge and could not find anything appetizing, but was startled suddenly when Clayface appeared behind him and warned him that Morgaine would kill again.\n\nRagman returned to DC Comics in a six-issue series written by Ray Fawkes and illustrated by Inaki Miranda and colored by Eva de la Cruz, with covers by Guillem March.\n\nPre-\"Crisis\", Ragman had the physical abilities of his father's friends: the strength of a circus strongman, the fighting ability of a heavyweight boxer and the agility of a world-class acrobat.\n\nCurrently, Ragman can draw upon the physical powers of any number of the corrupted souls that make up his suit. This way he can increase his strength, speed and stamina dozens or even hundreds of times over, though he has stated that it is not easy to tap into a large number of souls at once (at the time, he made the comment that the most he had ever done was somewhere over 100). This also allows Ragman to avoid most wounds, as he can use one of his other souls to take the damage for him.\n\nMost significantly, having defeated an enemy, he can acquire new souls by absorbing them with the suit, although he can only do this for truly evil souls; as an example, he was unable to absorb the soul of supervillain Blue Moon because she was regularly sent to prison as her powers only worked at night, her time in prison counting as her having 'served her time' and preventing Ragman from 'punishing' her himself. He was also unable to attack Billy Batson as he was deemed \"innocent\", and thus couldn't be harmed. Taking a soul adds a new rag to the suit and thus adds to Ragman's power supply. However, Rory has mentioned that the process of acquiring a new soul gives him stomach cramps and nausea. Once a corrupted soul has helped him a certain number of times, it is allowed to pass on to Heaven, having earned redemption for the sins it committed in life that would have sent it to Hell if it had simply died in the normal manner.\n\nAlso, Ragman possesses a number of minor magical powers, such as kinetically controlling the suit (i.e. entangling Eclipso with his cloak while grappling with her). The suit will also automatically materialize whenever he is in danger, and will normally teleport him to wherever he is needed.\n\nIt has recently been revealed that the suit can take on other forms, such as weapons, and still collect souls. To date, it has taken the forms of a cloak in ancient Egypt, a spear during the Roman Empire and a dagger in 19th century England.\n\nJay Garson Junior, who first appeared in Holyoke Publishing's \"Cat-Man\" #1 was the Golden Age Rag-Man. He first assumed his costumed identity when, after writing an article denouncing a gang of criminals, he is in a park and is shot at by one of them, only to have a tramp jump in front of him and save his life. After discovering that the tramp is his exact double, he switches clothes with him and makes it look like the criminals have succeeded in shooting him. Dressed in the tramp's tattered clothes, he then interrupts a meeting at the gang's hideout and apprehends them.\n\nBecause Holyoke never renewed their copyright on him, the Rag-Man is in the public domain.\n\nRagman appears in \"Justice League Unlimited\" tie-in comic #15.\n\nRagman appears in \"All-New \" #14 (February, 2012). After his father died, young Rory Regan inherited his family's antique shop, as well as the enchanted Ragman suit. Using the magical costume, Rory took up his family destiny to protect the Jewish community of Gotham from their enemies. Though he was considered a hero by his neighbors and by Gotham's other resident crime-fighters, Rory began to feel undervalued and unappreciated, feeling he could do better than protecting a few city blocks from muggers, vandals and the occasional skinhead. Rory began to openly resent his father for forcing him to remain in their neighborhood and look after the shop. One holiday season Batman pursued the super-criminal MacGuffin into Ragman's neighborhood. Over the course of the adventure, Batman helped Rory come to terms with his feelings toward his father and see the good he had done for his community.\n\nIn \"Injustice: Gods Among Us: Year Three\", Ragman teams up with John Constantine and Klarion the Witch Boy to spring a trap on the despotic Superman. Ragman first takes Raven's form after she is tricked into luring Superman to her binding place in Gotham City. Superman though supposedly frees \"Raven\", who is later revealed to be Ragman as he warns Superman that his senses can be fooled and then proclaims that he can feel his murdering soul. He then uses the rags from his suit to bind Superman. While Constantine brags to Superman about the process, Superman manages to free himself. While Ragman believes that he is too strong, Constantine tells him that Superman's soul belongs within his suit with the rest of the corrupted souls. Before he ensnares Superman again, Superman uses his communicator to call onto Shazam. Ragman though is unable to harm Shazam, due to him being innocent, as Shazam orders him to release Superman. Ragman tries to reason with Shazam, but Shazam calls down his lightning, freeing Superman and stunning Ragman. The Spectre then appears and proclaims punishment on the tortured souls within his suit and destroys part of his suit, freeing them as he declares that their time has come. He then removes Ragman's mask as Rory calls out to Constantine for help, but he refuses to do so. The Spectre then kills Rory as Shazam watches in horror.\n\n\nIn \"Injustice 2\", Ragman is briefly mentioned during a pre-fight interaction between Green Arrow and Scarecrow, where Green Arrow will mockingly quip \"Oh no, it's Ragman!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1849981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849981", "title": "Pallottines", "text": "Pallottines\n\nThe Society of the Catholic Apostolate (, abbreviated SAC), better known as the Pallottines, are a Society of Apostolic Life within the Roman Catholic Church, founded in 1835 by the Roman priest Saint Vincent Pallotti. Pallottines are part of the Union of Catholic Apostolate and are present in 45 countries on six continents. The Pallottines administer one of the largest churches in the world, the Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro in Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nVincent Pallotti was born in Rome in 1795. The Society as a community of priests and brothers was founded in Rome by Pallotti in 1835. Together with a group of associates and collaborators, he developed in the city of Rome a large structure of apostolic activity, which included assisting the poor, the sick, and marginalized; founding orphanages, institutions of charity, and shelters; and ministering to soldiers, workers, students, and prisoners. The Society, as a community of priests and brothers, was founded in Rome by Pallotti in 1835. \n\nVincent Pallotti died on January 22, 1850, without having seen the full development of his work. His closest collaborators continued his mission, ensuring further development of the Society. Vincent Pallotti was beatified in 1950 and canonized On January 20th, 1963, by Pope John XXIII.\n\nNot long after the death of his wife, Marianne, in 1880, English poet Coventry Patmore contacted the Pallotines about establishing a church in Hastings. St Mary Star of the Sea Church opened on 2 July 1883 and as of 2019 is still served by the Pallottines.\n\nThe Pallottine mission to Kamerun was established in 1890 in the German colony of Kamerun, today's Cameroon. The Fathers opened a number of missions and schools until 1916, when with the Kamerun Campaign of World War I, they relocated south to Spanish Guinea. After the war, the Pallottines were replaced by the French Holy Ghost Fathers. The Pallottines returned to Cameroon in 1964.\n\nIn the present day, the Pallottines have expanded their missionary apostolate to Taiwan and the Philippines. The Society conducts parishes, schools, missions, clinics, retreat houses, all types of charitable works, and the scientific Institute for Catholic Church Statistics in Poland. In 1915 the Society founded the St. Paulusheim Gymnasium in Bruchsal, Germany and in 1954 the Bishop Eustace Preparatory School in Pennsauken, New Jersey. The Pallottines also founded and direct the Catholic Apostolate Center in Washington, D.C., which develops programs to help strengthen the Society's mission.\n\nThe Irish Pallottine Province, now known as the \"Mother of Divine Love Province\", came to Ireland in 1909. The Pallottine College in Thurles, Co. Tipperary, served as a seminary for the Irish Province with students also being trained in theology in the nearby St. Patrick's College, Thurles. The Irish Pallottines have served in England, Argentina, United States, Rome (Church of San Silvestro in Capite) and East Africa (Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania), as well as being entrusted with the running of two parishes, Corduff and Shankill, in the Archdiocese of Dublin. The provincial headquarters was in Argentina but moved to London in 1928, before moving to Dublin in 1978.\nAs well as the Thurles College and Retreat Centre, the Headquarters and formation centre is in Dundrum, Dublin. \nThe Irish Pallottine Community Cemetery is at St. Mary's, Cabra, Thurles.\nThe Irish Bishop Séamus Freeman, S.A.C., is a member of the Pallottine Order as was Bishop Patrick Winters, S.C.A. 1908 – 1994.\n\n\nJózef Jankowski was a Pallottine from Poland who was sent to Auschwitz during World War II. He was killed there after being beaten by a camp capo. Jankowski was beatified by Pope John Paul II in Poland in 1999.\nCardinal Jorge Bergoglio, SJ, later Pope Francis, opened the cause in Argentina for beatification—the first step towards sainthood—for five members of the Pallottine community. The candidates for beatification are three priests and two seminarians killed by the military dictatorship in Argentina in 1976: Alfredo Leaden, Alfredo Kelly, Peter Duffau and seminarians Salvador Barbeito and Emilio Barletti.\n\nThe Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse reported by weighted average that 13.7% of the Pallottine order's priests were the subject of allegations of child abuse between 1950 and 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849987", "title": "Canadian Library Association", "text": "Canadian Library Association\n\nThe Canadian Library Association (CLA) was a national, predominantly English-language association which represented 57,000 library workers across Canada. It also spoke for the interests of the 21 million Canadians who are members of libraries. CLA members worked in all four types of libraries: academic (college and university), public, special (corporate, non-profit and government) and school libraries. Others sat on boards of public libraries, work for companies that provide goods and services to libraries, or were students in graduate level or community college programs.\n\nCLA's Mission Statement was: \"CLA is the national voice for Canada's library communities. As members, we:\n\n\nThe statement highlights the Association's advocacy role on behalf of the Canadian library and information community.\n\nAs of January, 2016, the organization claimed it had 924 paid members, although it is unclear whether this means personal members, or total membership (including corporate, associate, institutional, and honorary members). The executive council claims it had spent several years dealing with the difficulties of declining membership, efficiency, and financial power.\n\nOn January 27, 2016, the CLA membership formally voted to disband the organization.\n\nThe last CLA Forum was held in June 2016 in Ottawa, Ontario.\n\nThe Canadian Library Association (CLA) was founded in Hamilton, Ontario in 1946, and was incorporated under the Companies Act on November 26, 1947. Freda Farrell Waldon was its first president, serving in the year 1947. CLA is a non-profit voluntary organization, governed by an elected Executive Council, which is advised by over forty interest groups and committees.\n\nIn May 2002, the membership was at a grand total of 2,721, including 2216 personal, 505 institutional, and 187 associate members.\n\nAs of December 2014, the last time at which information was available, total membership in the CLA (through its various membership types) was 1,283:\n\nOn June 2016, the CLA was dissolved and its functions taken by several associations, including the Ontario Library Association and the Canadian Federation of Library Associations.\n\nThe CLA was supported by two types of committees: advisory committees and standing committees. As the need arose, new committees were formed by the Executive Council. Existing CLA members were primarily considered in the member selection process.\n\nThe Executive Council created advisory committees to address topics of strategic professional interest to the CLA. These committees were either long-term or short-term. Some of the advisory committees that supported the CLA were:\n\nThe Executive Council created long-term standing committees to actively govern the CLA. These committees contributed to the continuing operation of the CLA, and included:\n\nRecognizing that there was a need for close association between the Canadian Library Association and students in library school, the Canadian Library Association always encouraged students to join CLA, network and become involved active members of the library community.\n\nIn March 1999, CLA's first Student Chapter was officially launched at the University of Western Ontario.\n\nSince that time, Student Chapters were launched at the University of British Columbia, University of Toronto, University of Alberta, McGill University and Dalhousie University and in 2006 at the Nova Scotia Community College Institute of Technology Campus.\n\nStudent chapters of the Canadian Library Association allowed for professional development and networking opportunities for students enrolled in library and information science programs.\n\nCLA presented three annual awards recognizing books for young people that were published in Canada during the preceding year (and nominated by the end of November). The writer, or the illustrator for the Howard-Gibbon Award, must be a citizen or permanent resident of Canada.\n\nThe Amelia Frances Howard-Gibbon Illustrator's Award was presented every year since it was inaugurated in 1971, when the winner was Elizabeth Cleaver for \"The Wind Has Wings: Poems from Canada\", which she wrote and illustrated.\n\nThe Book of the Year for Children Award has been presented every year from 1963 when the winner was Sheila Burnford for \"The Incredible Journey\" (also adapted as a Disney film that year). The Book of the Year was inaugurated in 1947, recognizing the 1943 novel \"Starbuck Valley Winter\" by Roderick Haig-Brown, and it was awarded ten times prior to 1963.\n\nThe Young Adult Book Award has been presented every year since it was inaugurated in 1981, when the winner was Kevin Major for \"Far from Shore\" (1980).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849989", "title": "Mohammad Heydari", "text": "Mohammad Heydari\n\nMohammad Heidari (; January 1937 – August 23, 2016) was a Persian santur player and songwriter.\n\nAfter the 1979 Iranian Revolution, Mohammad Heidari left the country for Italy and a few years later moved to Los Angeles, where he continued his activities as a soloist and songwriter. Some of his nostalgic songs such as \"Zahr-e Jodai\" and \"Bahar Bahar\" (both performed by Hayedeh) became popular in the Persian community. Heyidari also has written the melody of other Persian hit songs such as \"Bia Benevisim\" and \"Sobhet Bekheir Azizam\".\n\nMohammad Heyidari died from cancer in a hospital in Los Angeles on 23 August 2016, aged 79.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849992", "title": "It Was a Very Good Year", "text": "It Was a Very Good Year\n\n\"It Was a Very Good Year\" is a song composed by Ervin Drake in 1961 and originally recorded by Bob Shane with the Kingston Trio. It was subsequently made famous by Frank Sinatra's version in D minor, which won the Grammy Award for Best Vocal Performance, Male in 1966. Gordon Jenkins was awarded Grammy Award for Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s) for the Sinatra version. This single peaked at #28 on the U.S. pop chart and became Sinatra's first #1 single on the Easy Listening charts. That version can be found on Sinatra's 1965 album \"September of My Years\", and was featured in \"The Sopranos\" season two opener, \"Guy Walks into a Psychiatrist's Office...\". A live, stripped-down performance is included on his \"Sinatra at the Sands\" album.\n\nThe nostalgic , melancholic song recounts the type of girls with whom the singer had relationships at various years in his life: when he was 17, \"small-town girls on the village green\"; at 21, \"city girls who lived up the stair\"; at 35, \"blue-blooded girls of independent means\". Each of these years he calls \"very good\". In the song's final verse, the singer reflects that he is older, and in the autumn of his years, and he thinks back on his entire life \"as vintage wine\". All of these romances were sweet to him, like a wine from a very good (i.e., vintage) year.\n\nErvin Drake's inspiration to write the song was his then wife-to-be, Edith Vincent Bermaine. She was a showgirl, whom he had dated, and eventually married twenty years after the song was written.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849994", "title": "Ontario Library Association", "text": "Ontario Library Association\n\nOntario Library Association (OLA), established in 1900, it is the oldest continually operating library association in Canada. With 5,000 members, OLA is the largest library association in Canada. Members can share with their colleagues their experience and expertise in a changing environment. OLA continues to create opportunities for its members to learn and engage with other members. It generates creative solutions in a dynamic environment. OLA has six divisions covering various kinds of libraries (college and university, library and information technology, library boards, public libraries, school libraries, and French libraries).\n\nOLA's annual Super Conference is held in Toronto is late January or early February.\n\nIn 2013, OLA moved from the 50 Wellington Street address to their current address at 2 Toronto Street, 3rd Floor, Toronto, Ontario.\n\nOLA's Forest of Reading is Canada's largest recreational reading program, that has grown to eight reading awards programs since the early 1990s. More than 250,000 readers participate annually from their School and/or Public Library.\n\nForest of Reading's main goals are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850001", "title": "Daniel Barringer", "text": "Daniel Barringer\n\nDaniel Barringer may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850003", "title": "From the Sounds Inside", "text": "From the Sounds Inside\n\nFrom the Sounds Inside is the first internet album by John Frusciante. A digital-only album released exclusively through the internet in August 2001, the album was free to download from his official website and includes material recorded during the \"To Record Only Water for Ten Days\" era of his solo career, most of which remained unmixed or unfinished. No track titles were given originally, which has given rise to songs appearing under different names in different sources. \n\nThe album was named by fans through a contest in 2001. The album's title was a result of a voting among fans, where it won with 36%. Two other titles, \"2001 Internet Album\" and \"Live Above Hell\" received 35% and 29% of votes.\n\nAlternate versions of tracks 1,5,11,15,16,19 appeared commercially on \"To Record Only Water for Ten Days\", \"Going Inside EP\" and the soundtrack album to the film \"The Brown Bunny\" (2004). The remaining 15 tracks (2-4, 6-10, 17-18) are exclusive to this release.\n"}
{"id": "1850012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850012", "title": "Steve Buckhantz", "text": "Steve Buckhantz\n\nSteve Buckhantz (born June 19, 1955) is a television play-by-play announcer, most recently for the Washington Wizards.\n\nBuckhantz began his television announcing career as Sports Director at WTTG, a Fox affiliate in Washington, D.C. as well as NFL games for Fox. A District native, he grew up in Arlington, Virginia, where his father owned a construction company. He attended James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Virginia. One of his earlier jobs in sports was with WSB-TV in Atlanta, Georgia, where he covered the Braves and the Hawks and eventually became the night-time sports anchor.\n\nBuckhantz currently resides in Washington, D.C. He married Shelley Lawrence on May 8, 2011. Shelley has two children from a previous marriage, Jake and Olivia Lawrence. Buckhantz has spent 23 years as the Wizards' play-by-play announcer, alongside Phil Chenier and later, Kara Lawson, on NBC Sports Washington (formerly HTS from 1984-2001 and Comcast SportsNet from 2001-2017) until his departure after the 2018-19 NBA season.\n\nBuckhantz has garnered a reputation for his emphatic expressions, such as \"\"Dagger\"\", \"\"Blocked by [player]!\"\", \"\"Backbreaker\"\", \"\"How good is he, Phil?\"\", \"\"How do you like that?\"\", \"\"Tough shot!\"\", \"\"It's good if it goes!...And it nearly did!\"\", \"\"Score the field goal, he'll go to the line!\"\", \"\"For the win!\"\", \"\"The refs have swallowed/put away their whistles!\"\", \"\"That's gotta be five seconds!\"\", \"\"That's hard to believe\"\", \"\"And [player/coach] is Livid!/Incensed\"\", \"\"Oh My!\"\", \"\"Follows it up twice!\"\", and \"\"NO, it's not possible!\"\"\n\nHis catchphrases have seeped into the lexicon of Washington, D.C. area sports fans, who revel in using them to describe a myriad of non-sports related events (ex. males observing a friend attempting to ask a woman for her phone number exclaim \"\"Dagger!\"\" or \"\"Backbreaker!\"\" when she can be seen rejecting the friend's advances) as well as debating the subtle and compelling distinction between a \"\"Backbreaker\"\" (a made basket at a critical juncture in a game that breaks any chance that the opposing team will win) and a \"\"Dagger\"\" (a made basket at a critical juncture in a game that stabs like a dagger at the opposing team's chance of victory).\n\nIn 2009, Buckhantz was featured in the ESPN 30 for 30 film \"Without Bias\" about the days leading up to the Len Bias death in the summer of 1986 after being chosen number 2 overall by the Boston Celtics after a stellar career at the University of Maryland. He was featured as a reporter for WTTG as the sports director at the time of Bias' death in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850013", "title": "Zitterbewegung", "text": "Zitterbewegung\n\nZitterbewegung (\"trembling motion\" in German) is a predicted rapid oscillatory motion of elementary particles that obey relativistic wave equations. The existence of such motion was first proposed by Erwin Schrödinger in 1930 as a result of his analysis of the wave packet solutions of the Dirac equation for relativistic electrons in free space, in which an interference between positive and negative energy states produces what appears to be a fluctuation (up to the speed of light) of the position of an electron around the median, with an angular frequency of , or approximately radians per second. For the hydrogen atom, zitterbewegung can be invoked as a heuristic way to derive the Darwin term, a small correction of the energy level of the s-orbitals.\n\nThe time-dependent Dirac equation is written as\n\nwhere formula_2 is the (reduced) Planck constant, formula_3 is the wave function (bispinor) of a fermionic particle spin-½, and is the Dirac Hamiltonian of a free particle: \n\nwhere formula_5 is the mass of the particle, formula_6 is the speed of light, formula_7 is the momentum operator, and formula_8 and formula_9 are matrices related to the Gamma matrices formula_10, as formula_11 and formula_12.\n\nIn the Heisenberg picture, the time dependence of an arbitrary observable obeys the equation\n\nIn particular, the time-dependence of the position operator is given by\n\nwhere is the position operator at time .\n\nThe above equation shows that the operator can be interpreted as the -th component of a \"velocity operator\". To add time-dependence to , one implements the Heisenberg picture, which says\n\nThe time-dependence of the velocity operator is given by\n\nwhere\n\nNow, because both and are time-independent, the above equation can easily be integrated twice to find the explicit time-dependence of the position operator. \n\nFirst:\n\nand finally\n\nThe resulting expression consists of an initial position, a motion proportional to time, and an oscillation term with an amplitude equal to the Compton wavelength. That oscillation term is the so-called zitterbewegung.\n\nThe zitterbewegung term vanishes on taking expectation values for wave-packets that are made up entirely of positive- (or entirely of negative-) energy waves. This can be achieved by taking a Foldy–Wouthuysen transformation. Thus, we arrive at the interpretation of the zitterbewegung as being caused by interference between positive- and negative-energy wave components.\n\nZitterbewegung of a free relativistic particle has never been observed directly, although there is strong evidence in favor of its existence. It has also been simulated twice in model systems that provide condensed-matter analogues of the relativistic phenomenon. The first example, in 2010, placed a trapped ion in an environment such that the non-relativistic Schrödinger equation for the ion had the same mathematical form as the Dirac equation (although the physical situation is different). Then, in 2013, it was simulated in a setup with Bose–Einstein condensates.\n\nOther proposals for condensed-matter analogues include graphene and topological insulators.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850015", "title": "Otto Canella", "text": "Otto Canella\n\nOtto Canella (born in the middle of the 11th century, died in 1143) was Consul of the Republic of Genoa in 1133, and an ancestor of the House of Grimaldi, the family that currently rules Monaco. According to the 19th-century historian Gustave Saige, Canella's eldest son, Bellamuto, was also a Consul of Genoa, even nine years before Canella himself achieved the position. The Princely Family of Monaco take their name, Grimaldi, from his youngest son Grimaldo. Grimaldo became a Consul of Genoa in 1162.\n\nAnne Edwards writes: \"They were an ambitious tribe, greedy for power within Genoa, always with an eye toward their own enrichment. The family, who were Ghibellines in the long struggle between the popes (Guelfs) and the emperors (Ghibellines), were pitted against the Doria and Spinola families on the Guelf side.\"\n"}
{"id": "1850021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850021", "title": "Siret", "text": "Siret\n\nSiret (; ; ; , \"Seret\") is a town, municipality and former Latin bishopric in Suceava County, north-eastern Romania. It is situated in the historical region of Bukovina. Siret is the 11th largest urban settlement in the county, with a population of 7,721 inhabitants, according to the 2011 census. It is one of the oldest towns in Romania and was the capital of the principality of Moldavia, in the late 14th century. The town administers two villages: Mănăstioara and Pădureni.\n\nThe town's current local council has the following political composition, according to the results of the 2016 Romanian local elections:\n\nThe town of Siret is located at the north-eastern limit of Suceava County, from the border with Ukraine, being one of the main border passing points in the north of the country, having both a road border post and a rail connection.\n\nThe rail is on a standard gauge on the Romanian side and continues as a Russian-style broad gauge into Ukraine. Siret (actually the nearby border passing point called VicșaniVadul Siret) is one of the few places in Romania which provides a gauge change equipment, allowing transportation without transfer.\n\nSiret is situated at the half distance between Chernivtsi and Suceava, on the right banks of Siret River. The European route E85 crosses the city.\n\nDuring the period 1211–1225, on a hill near Siret a fortress was built by the Teutonic Knights. The town and the Teutonic castle were destroyed by the Tatars in 1241. The first document of Siret dates back to 1339, according to some historical sources. The town was the capital of the former principality of Moldavia, in the late 14thcentury.\n\nThe Russian imperial Army occupied the town in 1770, and, as a consequence, an epidemic of cholera broke out. Together with the rest of Bukovina, Siret was under the imperial rule of the Habsburg Monarchy (later Austria-Hungary) from 1775 to 1918.\n\nDuring World War II, Siret was captured on 3April 1944 by Soviet troops of the 1st Ukrainian Front in the course of the Dnieper–Carpathian Offensive.\n\nGiven the 14th century decline of the Byzantine empire as Orthodox regional superpower-ally and Latin mendicant orders missions since the 13th century, prince Bogdan I of Moldavia obtained virtual independence in 1359 as founding \"voivode\" (autonomous prince), seeking aid and protection from Poland, welcomed Latin missionaries, Francescans (founding a monastery at Siret in 1340) and Dominicans. His son and indirect successor Lațcu of Moldavia (1365-1373) promised Rome his and the people's conversion to Catholicism and asked Pope Urban V to send missionaries and erect a Latin diocese in his principality's capital, Siret, which happened in 1371, initially directly subject to the Holy See until 1412 when it was made suffragan of the Archbishopric of Lviv (Lwów in Polish; now in Ukraine). This Roman Catholic Diocese of Siret started to decline in 1388 when prince Petru of Moldavia transferred the Moldavian voivode's capital from Siret to Suceava, and was effectively suppressed, but from circa 1418, the Holy See erected another Moldavian bishopric, the Diocese of Baia, which inherited its territory (1434?).\n\nThere was a Jewish community by the mid-16th century. Zionist activity began at the turn of the 20thcentury, a time when most of the local Jews worked in commerce. From 1912 to 1918, the mayor was Jewish and the town council included Jews. During World WarI, Jews fled in advance of the Imperial Russian Army, and found their property destroyed when they returned. After the union of Bukovina with Romania, the new authorities revoked licenses for Jewish members of the free professions and removed Jewish officials from their posts. In 1930, there were 2,121 Jews or 14% of the town's population. In 1936, Baruch Hager of the Vizhnitz dynasty was named rabbi and opened a yeshiva. During the interwar period, there was activity by Zionist youth movements. On June20, 1941, just before Romania's entry into World WarII, the authorities of the Ion Antonescu regime forced the Jews of Siret to march to Dornești before transporting them to Craiova and Calafat and finally Transnistria (\"see The Holocaust in Romania\"). Soviet troops liberated 460 Siret Jews there in 1944; 400 of them subsequently left for Palestine.\n\nToday, most of the population is Romanian Orthodox, with Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Greek-Catholic and Christian Evangelical minorities.\n\nSiret reached its peak population in 1992, when more than 10,000 people were living within the town limits. In 2016, Siret had a population of 10,000 inhabitants.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census data, 7,721 inhabitants lived in Siret, a decrease from the figure recorded at the 2002 census, when the town had a population of 9,329 inhabitants. In 2011, of the total population, 95.85% were ethnic Romanians, 2.55% Ukrainians, 0.72% Poles, 0.42% Germans , 0.28% Russians .\n\nSiret is the eleventh most populated urban locality in Suceava County.\n\n\nSiret is a member of the Douzelage, a unique town twinning association of 24 towns across the European Union. This active program began in 1991, and regular events, such as a produce market from each of the other countries and festivals. Discussions regarding membership are also in hand with three additional towns (Agros in Cyprus, Škofja Loka in Slovenia, and Tryavna in Bulgaria).\n\nSiret is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850023", "title": "Beate Klarsfeld", "text": "Beate Klarsfeld\n\nBeate Auguste Klarsfeld (née Künzel; born 13 February 1939 in Berlin) is a Franco-German journalist who, along with her French husband, Serge, became famous for their investigation and documentation of numerous Nazi war criminals, including Kurt Lischka, Alois Brunner, Klaus Barbie, Ernst Ehlers, Kurt Asche, amongst others. \n\nIn March 2012, she was a candidate for The Left in the 2012 German presidential election against Joachim Gauck, which she lost 126 to 991.\n\nKlarsfeld is the only child of Helen and Kurt Künzel, who was an insurance clerk. Her parents were not Nazis, according to Klarsfeld; however, they had voted for Nazi leader, Adolf Hitler. Her father was drafted in the summer of 1939 into the infantry. From the summer of 1940, he fought with his unit in France and was moved in 1941 to the eastern front. In the following winter, because he had contracted double pneumonia, he was transferred back to Germany and worked as an accountant. Beate spent several months in Łódź with her godfather, who was a Nazi official.\n\nThe Berlin apartment in which she lived was bombed and relatives in Sandau gave shelter to Beate and her mother. In 1945, her father was released from British captivity and joined them. The house and property in Sandau were seized by the Polish government, and the family returned to Berlin. From the age of about fourteen years, Beate began frequently to argue with her parents, because they did not feel responsible for the Nazi era and regretted the injustices and material losses they suffered, and while blaming the Russians, felt no sympathy for other countries.\n\nIn 1960, Beate Künzel spent a year as an au pair in Paris. By her own admission, at that time politics and history were completely foreign to her. However, in Paris she was confronted with the consequences of The Holocaust. In 1963, she married the French lawyer and historian Serge Klarsfeld, whose father was a victim of the Auschwitz concentration camp exterminations. Klarsfeld said that her husband helped her to become, \"a German of conscience and awareness\".\n\nThey had two children: Arno David (born 1965) and Lida Myriam (born 1973). After changing employment she worked from 1964 as a secretary at the new German-French Youth Office. There she published \"Deutsche Mädchen au pair in Paris\", a guide for German au pair girls in Paris. During an unpaid leave year, after the birth of her son, she became increasingly engaged in feminist literature and the emancipation of women in Germany. By the end of 1966, she moved with her family, her mother-in-law and the three-member family of Serge's sister into an apartment together.\n\nWhile the Klarsfelds were in Paris after the government crisis in October and November 1966, Kurt Georg Kiesinger (CDU member) was chosen as the new German chancellor of a coalition of the political parties CDU and SPD. In a January 14, 1967 essay for the French newspaper \"Combat\",\nKlarsfeld, who was then a foreign member of the SPD, came out against the Kiesinger chancellorship in favour of Willy Brandt. In these and other pieces for \"Combat\" in March and 27 July of that year she accused Kiesinger of having made a \"good reputation\" for himself \"in the ranks of the Brown Shirts\" and \"in the CDU\". At the end of August she was fired by the French-German Youth Office, at which the Klarsfelds initiated legal action against the decision and redoubled their journalistic campaign against Kiesinger.\n\nTo draw attention to Kiesinger's Nazi past, Beate Klarsfeld initiated a campaign with various public actions. Kiesinger registered as a member of the Nazi Party in late February 1933 and by 1940 had risen to deputy head of the political broadcasting department at the Foreign Ministry that was responsible for influencing foreign broadcasts in favor of German politics. Kiesinger was responsible for the connection to the Reich Propaganda Ministry. Klarsfeld accused Kiesinger of being a member of the board of Inter Radio AG, which had been buying foreign radio stations for propaganda purposes.\nAccording to her, he also was principally in charge of the contents of the German international broadcasts which included anti-Semitic and war propaganda, and had collaborated closely with SS functionaries and Franz Alfred Six who were responsible for mass murders in Eastern Europe. \nAfter becoming aware of the genocide of the Jews, Kiesinger continued to produce the anti-Semitic propaganda. These allegations were based in part on documents that Albert Norden published about the culprits of war and Nazi crimes.\n\nOn 2 April 1968 from the public gallery in the Bonn Bundestag (German parliament), Klarsfeld shouted \"Nazi Kiesinger, resign!\" at Kiesinger, and was arrested to be released soon after. According to archives, she traveled to East Berlin in the end of April 1968 in order \"to discuss the preparation of actions against Kiesinger and obtain appropriate support\" there with the National Council, the supreme body of the National Front. On 9 May she was in West Berlin, for a demonstration of the extra-parliamentary opposition about Kiesinger's Nazi past. A press conference was scheduled for 10 May. On 14 May, Klarsfeld wanted to organize a \"Kiesinger-Colloquium\" in Paris. The West Department of the SED Central Committee immediately informed Walter Ulbricht, its chairman, of Klarsfeld's plans. Subsequently, the National Council was instructed \"to provide any relevant assistance to Mrs Klarsfeld\". She was eventually supported by the publication of a brochure with a circulation of 30,000 copies. However, the financial help she wished for was not granted.\n\nOn 9 May, Klarsfeld, Günter Grass (who had urged Kiesinger in an open letter to resign in 1966), Johannes Agnoli, , Jacob Taubes and Michel Lang (a student from the \"Jewish Working Group for Politics\") led a panel discussion in front of about 2,000 to 3,000 students in the main lecture theatre of the Technical University of Berlin. \nGrass was initially booed from the audience before starting his speech. Klarsfeld, who presented Kiesinger as a major threat to Germany and the National Democratic Party of Germany promised those present to try to slap him publicly. \nThis was not taken seriously by representatives of the SDS and a part of the audience and was laughed at. Grass' thesis was that a withdrawal by Kiesinger would be a prerequisite for an efficient fight against the NPD, was contradicted by Agnoli and Krippendorff. The conference ended with a 3/4 majority urging Kiesinger to resign.\n\nIn mid-1968, as a witness in a lawsuit, Kiesinger claimed he had not heard about the murder of Jews until 1942 and first believed any of it from foreign reports towards the end of 1944. During a CDU party conference in West Berlin on 7 November 1968, Klarsfeld mounted the podium of the Berlin Congress Hall, slapped Kiesinger, and shouted \"Nazi, Nazi, Nazi\".\n\nA few days later, during an interview with \"Der Spiegel \" she maintained that she had already planned the slap on 9 May 1968. She said that she had wanted to express that part of the German people - especially the youth - who were opposed to a Nazi being the head of the Federal Government. Berlin was selected as the site because Klarsfeld and her husband expected she would only be punished mildly as a French citizen because of the four-power status of the city.\n\nThe following day on 7 November 1968, Klarsfeld received a 1-year custodial sentence in an accelerated hearing, but due to her part-French nationality she didn't actually have to go to prison. Her defense attorney was Horst Mahler. The judge justified the scale of the penalty - it was the best possible under an accelerated procedure - on the grounds that political beliefs should not be demonstrated with violence, and that the fact the injured was the Chancellor, had not influenced his judgment. Klarsfeld appealed against the verdict.\n\nIn recognition of her action, the writer and later Nobel Prize laureate Heinrich Böll sent red roses to her in Paris. Günter Grass, however, deemed Klarsfeld's action \"irrational\" and criticized Böll's reaction.\nDuring a wave of violent actions and attacks by the student movement following the judgment against Klarsfeld, the judge's windows were pelted with stones, which the SDS called \"an adequate response to a unparalleled terror judgment\".\n\nIn late 1969, Klarsfeld's sentence was reduced to four months in prison, which were suspended on probation. Klarsfeld justified the act in a poem that she recorded on November 23, 1968. Accordingly, Klarsfeld when asked, explained that her slap was on behalf of 50 million dead of World War II and that the future generations must understand the \"repulsive face of ten million Nazis\". In her opinion, Germany needed the slap to prove the guilt of the Nazi followers, to avenge dead Russians and German youth soldiers, to sympathize with concentration camp victims, to clean the occupied countries and daughter crew opponents as Manolis Glezos, the glory of the Scholl siblings, to reconcile with the Jewish, Russian and Polish people, for a joint anti-fascism, for an association \"freed from the urge for hegemony\" of \"three or two\" Germany, for \"socialism and peace, for the other nations of the respected world\" and respect for women among the bombing and torture victims of the Holocaust.\n\nKlarsfeld was accompanied by her mother on 11 November 1968 in Brussels where two days later Kiesinger was to speak on the evening of 13 November 1968 to the Grandes Conférences Catholiques. She was advised to leave the country by the Belgian police. In 1969 she joined the Waldshut constituency federal election campaign as a direct candidate of the Party of Democratic Progress action against the direct candidate of the CDU, Chancellor Kiesinger. Kiesinger received 60,373 votes, Klarsfeld 644.\n\nIn February 1971 Klarsfeld demonstrated in front of the Charles University in Prague against \"Stalinisation, persecution and anti-Semitism\". As a result, she was temporarily banned from entering the GDR. That same year in Germany, with her husband and several other people, she tried to kidnap Kurt Lischka, who was responsible for the deportation of some 76,000 Jews from France. Lischka was living openly under his own name in Cologne. Klarsfeld planned to deliver him to justice in Paris, as a previous conviction in France blocked further legal action against Lischka in Germany. Although the kidnapping was unsuccessful, it served to draw media attention to Klarsfeld's cause. She turned herself in to the German authorities, saying that they must arrest either her or Lischka. In 1974 she was sentenced to two months' imprisonment for the attempted kidnapping, with Lischka testifying at her trial. After an international outcry, her sentence was suspended. Lischka remained at large until 1980, when he was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment.\n\nIn the 1970s, Klarsfeld repeatedly pointed to the involvement of the FDP politician Ernst Achenbach in the deportation of Jews from France. In 1976, she succeeded in her political activity. She ended her activity as a lobbyist of Nazi criminals shortly before her scheduled deployment as West German representative in the European Community in Brussels. In 1984 and 1985 she toured the military dictatorships of Chile and Paraguay, to draw attention to the search for the suspected Nazi war criminals Walter Rauff and Josef Mengele. In 1986 Klarsfeld spent a month in West Beirut, Lebanon, and offered to go into custody in an exchange for Israeli hostages .\n\nin 1986, she campaigned against the candidacy of former UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim, the Austrian Federal President, who was accused of having been involved in war crimes as an officer of the Wehrmacht. She attended his campaign events and after his election she disrupted his appearances in Istanbul and Amman, where she was supported by the World Jewish Congress.\n\nOn 4 July 1987, a resolution took heed of Klarsfeld's initiative and condemned SS war criminal Klaus Barbie (known as the Butcher of Lyon). Barbie was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment. This success credited Klarsfeld as the \"main result\" of their actions. As early as 1972 they had uncovered his whereabouts in Bolivia. Her gift was the foundation of the memorial Maison d'Izieu (Children of Izieu), in memory of the victims of Barbie's crimes. In 1991, she fought for the extradition of Eichmann's deputy Alois Brunner, then living in Syria, for the murder of 130,000 Jews in German concentration camps. In 2001, through the efforts of Klarsfeld, Brunner was sentenced by a French court \"in absentia\" to life imprisonment.\n\nIn July 2001, Klarsfeld called for a demonstration in Berlin against the state visit of the Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.\n\nBeate and Serge Klarsfeld published a commemorative book in which the names of over 80,000 victims of the Nazi era in France. They strove successfully to have the pictures displayed of about 11,400 deported Jewish children in the years 1942 to 1944. The French railway SNCF welcomed the project and displayed the pictures at 18 stations as a traveling exhibition (\"Enfants juifs Déportés de France\"). The German Railways (DB), the legal successor of Deutsche Reichsbahn, turned down a corresponding exhibition at DB-stations \"for security reasons\" and referred them to the DB Museum in Nuremberg. The former DB CEO Hartmut Mehdorn argued the issue was much too serious, for display in German railway stations. Transport Minister Wolfgang Tiefensee spoke out in favor of the exhibition. At the end of 2006 Tiefensee and Mehdorn agreed to support a new, DB owned exhibition on the role of the Reichsbahn in World War II.\n\nThe special Deutsche Bahn traveling exhibition \"Special Trains to Death\" has been shown since January 23, 2008 at numerous German train stations. Since its opening, this exhibition has seen over 150,000 visitors. The hunt for Klaus Barbie was made into the movie \"Die Hetzjagd\" (\"The hunt\") of 2008. In 2009, she was again nominated by the parliamentary group Die Linke for the Order of Merit. Led by Federal Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, the German Foreign Office, which is responsible for the awarding of expatriate German nationals, refused the nomination. In the term of office of Joschka Fischer as foreign minister (1998-2005) the award had already been previously rejected.\n\nSince 2008, Klarsfeld has been, together with Michel Cullin of France, a member of the International Council of the Austrian Service Abroad and has supported the memorial service of young Austrians in Holocaust memorials and Jewish museums around the world. On 8 November 2009, she was awarded the in Munich; but carried her nomination in violation of the regulations.\n\nUntil her death Klarsfeld remained friends with Marlene Dietrich, who also lived in Paris and admired the Klarsfelds for their hunt for Klaus Barbie.\nOn 27 February 2012 Klarsfeld, after previously Luc Jochimsen and Christoph Butterwegge had been mentioned as possible candidates, was nominated by the board of the Die Linke unanimously for the election of the German President in 2012 as a candidate.\n\nKlarsfeld stated that she felt supported by the Left hundred percent in the fight against fascism. The fact that the party had nominated them with knowledge of their commitment to Israel, show that the party was in agreement on this relationship with her. She put a program established for their administration in case of their choice, intention, however, to improve the image of Germany. It had a moral Germany to be created that can bring about social justice in other European countries. Klarsfeld had announced, to assist in the 2012 French presidential election Incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. You have no \"abdominal pain that I just left for a candidate\" although it would have preferred a nomination on the part of the CDU or the SPD. The election for President of the Confederation would be the \"highest honor\" that she could be granted.\n\nAt the end of February 2012, the Saxon State Commissioner for the Stasi files, Lutz Rathenow, made in the \"Tagesspiegel\" Klarsfeld contacts with the Ministry of State Security of the GDR on the subject. Klarsfeld had indeed supplied no reports and had also not been a player, but I always get material from the GDR secret. They have also wanted. According to Rathenow, it \"already a reflection of how far served the Stasi legwork of Nazi Crimes elucidation and where it has harmed.\" would require. He asked: \"Had such a secret trust has been applied also to the American CIA or the Federal Intelligence Service? Where it led politically by those who also blackmail made by permanent adoption of material? \"\n\nIn 1991, former Stasi officers Günter Bohnsack and Herbert Brehmer made public in an article for \"Der Spiegel \"that \"Mrs Klarsfeld\" the \"incriminating evidence against the former Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger,\" \"with which they then since 1967 Kiesinger's past denounced \"have picked up at them. Her husband Serge was repeatedly at them. The two would get \"piles of documents\" of them. According to Bohnsack this cooperation began in 1966 and ended only in 1989. The \"Plan with the slap\" have Klarsfeld \"probably concocted itself\"; he knew nothing about it before it is executed.\n\nKlarsfeld confirmed that it was not an informer, the GDR but suggested that she open the \"Archive to Nazi criminals in Potsdam\". After Klarsfeld actions against antisemitism early 70s in Prague and Warsaw, the GDR had these doors but closed again. The Stasi background of their interlocutors in East Germany, she was not aware at the time: \"I met with people, which I thought they were historians with access to State archives of the GDR.\"\n\nOn March 5, 2012 Klarsfeld was elected by the Saxon parliament on the list of the Left Group as one of 33 people election as member of the 15th Federal Assembly in 2012.\n\nOn 7 March 2012, \"Welt\" published online under the article title \"2000 D-Mark for the famous German slap\" an internal instruction of the SED Politburo member Albert Norden announced the 14 November 1968, a week after the slap against Kiesinger, Klarsfeld should be provided 2000 DM \"for further initiatives\". Officially, the amount should be reported as \"honoraria\" an article she had written \"DDR Revue\" for foreign journal.\n\nReferring to this publication said CDU General Secretary Hermann Gröhe Klarsfeld from any fitness for the office of president. The head of the Berlin-Hohenschönhausen Memorial, Hubertus Knabe, said something similar and attested her a missing \"democratic awareness\". Asked about the allegations, Klarsfeld said it was outrageous to reduce their commitment for Kiesinger's Nazi past to support by the GDR. she never worked on behalf of the GDR, but on their own behalf. In 1968 she had a few days spent by the slap 2,000 marks for it to organize the event with Kiesinger in Brussels. As early as 1972 she had described it in her autobiography.\n\nKlarsfeld described in her 1972 autobiography that she had received 2000 D-Mark for an article in the East Berlin magazine \"Horizont\". With the money they have paid the airfare from supporters of their action on 13 November 1968 in Brussels, who arrived with brochures about Kiesinger from Berlin.\n\nKlarsfeld answer was interpreted by World Online as an indirect and first-time admission that she had once actually received the $2000. FDP General Secretary Patrick Döring said: \"If it turns out that Ms. Klarsfeld 1968 nothing but an accomplice for a paid of the SED PR campaign was her candidacy for the highest German state office is a slap for all democrats in our country\". The general secretary of the CSU, Alexander Dobrindt, Klarsfeld called an \"SED puppet\".\n\nThe national director of Die Linke, Caren Lay, described it as against it \"absurd charge\", \"to discredit commissioned by the GDR\" Klarsfeld commitment as. The deputy chairman of the parliamentary faction Dietmar Bartsch said Klarsfeld sought to put the slap Kiesingers a sign, but achieved a great deal more. He opposed equating DDR and Nazism, calling it legitimate that Klarsfeld was supported in its \"fight against Nazis\" from France, Israel, and also of East Germany.\n\nIn the world which Klarsfeld had three years earlier honored on her birthday, now published opinion comments, after which there was \"little to do with the Klarsfeld\" that Klaus Barbie was tried, and the slap was doubtful also because Kiesinger had been a \"follower of the Nazi regime\".\n\nWhen choosing 18 March 2012 voted 126 members of the Federal Assembly for Klarsfeld. These are placed three more than the Left Party delegates. Klarsfeld was against Joachim Gauck, whose candidacy of CDU / CSU, SPD, FDP and Greens had been supported and the 991 votes received.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850025", "title": "Museum of Broadcast Communications", "text": "Museum of Broadcast Communications\n\nThe Museum of Broadcast Communications (MBC) is an American museum, the stated mission of which is \"to collect, preserve, and present historic and contemporary radio and television content as well as educate, inform and entertain through our archives, public programs, screenings, exhibits, publications and online access to our resources.\" It is located in Chicago.\n\nThe Museum of Broadcast Communications was founded in 1982 but didn't open until June 1987 in the River City condominium complex, located at 800 S. Wells St. It remained there until June 1992, when it moved to the Chicago Cultural Center. The MBC then left the Cultural Center in December 2003, with plans to open in a new building of its own at 360 N. State St. in 2005. Subsequently, construction of the new MBC experienced various delays and setbacks, with construction stopping in 2006 and the half-completed building slated to be sold in December 2008, which MBC founder and president Bruce DuMont blamed on a lack of $6 million in state funding that had reportedly been promised to the museum three years earlier. \n\nOn November 7, 2009, DuMont announced that funding for the museum from the state of Illinois had finally been obtained and that construction would begin once again. Seven months later, Governor Pat Quinn stated that Illinois would give the MBC a capital grant of $6 million to help complete its construction. (In December 2009 the MBC held a construction fundraiser in Oak Park, Illinois, where DuMont was living at the time. The event's headliner was Bill Jackson, the creator and host of the children's program \"The BJ and Dirty Dragon Show\", which aired on Chicago TV from 1968 to '74, originally as \"Cartoon Town\".)\n\nThe new 62,000-square-foot MBC was back under construction in 2010. It was set to include expanded areas for collection development, two exhibit galleries, and working radio and television studios. The State of Illinois set a deadline of May 2011 to finish basic interior work and landscaping, but because of cold weather, the museum was given a 30-day extension on its original April 30 deadline.\n\nShortly before the museum reopened, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that Bruce DuMont had obtained the aforementioned $6 million grant \"after telling the state he intended to create 200 yearlong construction jobs and 19 museum staff positions (15 full-time jobs and four part-time ones),\" but he expected the museum to have only 11 part-time workers by the time of the reopening and said that 180-200 construction workers, employed for as much as ten months and as little as several days, helped finish the new building. When asked to explain why the number, and duration, of jobs created was lower than what he'd promised to the state legislature, Dumont replied, in an email, \"If the MBC can manage our operations with fewer people and do so efficiently, we will do so, just like the Chicago Tribune has done.\" DuMont told the \"Tribune\" that waiters, hotel employees, and other members of the service industry would find employment, presumably in restaurants and hotels surrounding the museum, because of the reopening, and that the MBC could inspire people to seek out careers in broadcasting. \"I think inspiration is a form of job creation,\" DuMont said, \"because it changes one life.\"\n\nAfter being dormant for eight and a half years as a brick-and-mortar destination, the museum reopened in its new location at 360 N. State St. on June 13, 2012, exactly 25 years after it first opened its doors. (Technically, the National Radio Hall of Fame gallery, located on the second floor of the museum, had been open to the public since December 1, 2011.) The pre-opening ceremony on June 12 included actors John Mahoney (\"Frasier\") and Betty White (\"The Golden Girls\") and newscaster Hugh Downs (\"20/20\").\nAccording to a February 2011 press release centered on the MBC's partnership with Cleversafe to provide online access to its archives, roughly 70,000 registered users and 4.5 million unique visitors had accessed the MBC's 400,000 online videos between 2009 and early 2011, and more than \"240,000 visitors from across the country are projected for the [museum's] first year of operation.\" However, museum attendance \"dropped drastically, from 225,000 annual visitors when MBC was at the Cultural Center and free to 7,300 last year at the current entrance fee of $12,\" reported the \"Chicago Reader\" in May 2015. \"Then in 2013, what DuMont describes as a 'server crash' destroyed access to the 10 percent of the museum's archive of radio and television programming that had been digitized and made available to the public for free.\"\n\nIn December 2012 \"Crain's Chicago Business\" reported that the MBC \"now owes less than $3 million on a mortgage held by Pepper [Construction, the contractor for the State St. facility] and has arranged another three years for paying down that debt.\" (The \"Chicago Reader\" had previously reported, in November 2009, a mortgage total of $4.79 million \"that'll come due in 2011.\") More than four and a half years later, in July 2017, \"Crain's\" revealed that the MBC's mortgage deadline had been pushed back from the end of 2015 to the end of 2017, and that as of August 2016 the museum \"owed $2.5 million to Pepper Construction\"; furthermore, \"the museum posted $53,674 in ticket revenue\" in 2015 along with \"an operating deficit of $561,331, according to its tax filing for that year, the most recent available.\" Four weeks later \"Crain's\" reported that Pepper Construction had granted the MBC another year to pay off its debt, extending the mortgage deadline to December 31, 2018.\n\nIn September 2017 the MBC announced the debut of \"\"Saturday Night Live\": The Experience,\" a 12,000-square-foot exhibit acquired from Premier Exhibitions that was set to open the following month and run through the end of 2018 on the museum's second and fourth floors. \"It's a grab for the gold ring,\" MBC president Bruce DuMont told the \"Chicago Tribune\". \"I think it's going to dramatically change the museum for the better. We're very excited about it. There's going to be more attention, more traffic, more buzz about the things we do here.\" (Premier Exhibitions filed for bankruptcy protection in June 2016.)\n\nOn March 2, 2018, media blogger Robert Feder reported that the museum was \"looking to sell two floors of its four-story building at 360 North State Street.\" \"We simply are looking at options to improve the future educational and entertainment experience for our patrons,\" said MBC board chairman Larry Wert. \"Any proceeds would put the institution on a solid financial foundation.\" Wert, Tribune Media's president of broadcast media, was elected interim chairman of the MBC board in October 2016, less than two months after Bruce DuMont announced that he planned to retire as the museum's president. (Until Wert became the interim chairman of the board, the position had \"been vacant since 1995 when the late Arthur C. Nielsen Jr. stepped down after 11 years,\" wrote Feder that October.) \n\nHowever, shortly after DuMont made his announcement in August 2016, the website Chicagoland Radio and Media reported, \"Officially, DuMont is voluntarily retiring from the MBC, claiming the decision is entirely his own, although in reality, there is far more behind it,\" including alleged financial mismanagement and controversy surrounding his personal life; additionally, DuMont would \"remain at least until a successor has been found and begun in the MBC President role. This could take up to a year.\" DuMont's final two-year term as president ended on December 31, 2017, without a successor in place, but on March 19, 2018, Robert Feder reported that Julian Jackson, formerly the vice president of design at the Milwaukee Public Museum, had been named the MBC's new executive director.\n\nNearly six months later, on September 17, 2018, Feder reported that the MBC's board of directors was close to finalizing a deal to sell the museum's third and fourth floors to Fern Hill, a real estate development and investment firm. \"Sources said the agreement will net $6 million, to be used to continue operating the museum and paying down debt — especially a $3.7 million mortgage held by Pepper Construction Co.,\" Feder wrote. The deal closed on March 1, 2019, with executive director Julian Jackson telling Feder, \"When we open the next phase of the permanent museum, we plan on providing a state-of-the-art experience to all of our guest \"[sic]\", while delivering brand value to our sponsors and supporters.\" That same week the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that the MBC was \"negotiating with Cleveland’s Rock and Roll Hall of Fame to bring two special exhibitions here beginning in June,\" and that after the March 31 closing of \"\"Saturday Night Live\": The Experience,\" which had been held over for three months, the museum's second floor was \"expected to be closed for at least April and May\" as the MBC reduced its exhibition and event space \"from 25,000 square feet to 12,500.\" On March 18, 2019, Robert Feder reported that Julian Jackson had resigned as the MBC's executive director after one year, having told the board of directors that he'd \"accepted a new position with Freeman Exhibit Solutions in Schiller Park.\"\n\n\"Louder Than Words: Rock, Power & Politics,\" on loan from the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, opened on May 24, 2019, for a three-month run on the MBC's second floor. (Although it was advertised as being on display through Labor Day, the exhibit closed on August 25.) On July 26 Robert Feder reported that Susy Schultz, president of the Chicago nonprofit Public Narrative and a former journalist for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", had been named the museum's new executive director, effective August 19. (David Plier, the CEO of Retail First Corp. and a weekend host on WGN 720 AM, replaced Larry Wert as the chairman of the MBC board at the end of June.) In its July 26 story on Schultz's hiring, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's exhibit \"Stay Tuned: Rock on TV\" was scheduled to open in October, and \"the museum next year plans to remodel its primary exhibition space on the second floor and remake its central exhibition on television history,\" according to MBC officials.\n\nThe MBC temporarily closed its doors on March 15, 2020, because of the COVID-19 health crisis, and announced that it would \"be accelerating the release of its online curriculum for 'The Great Debates,' which examines the impact of the broadcast industry on the campaign for the presidency. It was scheduled to be released when the exhibit opens this summer, but that will be moved up to early April.\"\n\nUntil October 2017, when \"\"Saturday Night Live\": The Experience\" opened, the second floor of the museum was the location of the National Radio Hall of Fame (NRHOF) gallery. (When the \"SNL\" exhibit closed in the spring of 2019 and the MBC sold the third and fourth floors of its building, the NRHOF gallery was partially restored on the second floor.) The NRHOF has been affiliated with the MBC since 1991. (The museum was also home to the American Advertising Federation's Advertising Hall of Fame from 1992 to 2000.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850034", "title": "Lionel Rivera", "text": "Lionel Rivera\n\nLionel Rivera (born 1956) is an American politician who served as the mayor of Colorado Springs, Colorado from 2003 to 2011. Elected in April 2003 and re-elected in 2007 on a mail ballot only election, he is the first Hispanic Mayor in the city's history.\n\nBorn in El Paso, Texas, Rivera earned a Bachelor's Degree in Microbiology from Texas Tech University and a Master of Business Administration from Jacksonville State University.\n\nRivera came to Colorado Springs in 1984 as an Army Captain stationed at Fort Carson. He has served on many community boards including being a founder and past president of the Colorado Springs Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, serving on the Colorado Springs Greater Chamber of Commerce Board and United Way Board of Trustees and Executive Committee and a co-chair of The Springs Community Action Plan. Rivera was first elected to an at large City Council seat in April 1997 and re-elected again in April 1999. In April 2001, he was elected by his City Council colleagues to serve as Vice Mayor for a two-year term.\n\nHe ran for U.S. Congress in Colorado's 5th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives but lost in the Republican primary to Doug Lamborn, on August 8, 2006.\n\nHe was succeeded by Colorado Springs mayor Steve Bach on May 17, 2011. He did not run for re-election due to term limits.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850039", "title": "BAL Bashkirian Airlines", "text": "BAL Bashkirian Airlines\n\nBAL Bashkirian Airlines (, \"Baškirskije avialinii\", , \"BAL Başqortostan avialiniyaları\") was an airline with its head office on the property of Ufa Airport in Ufa, Russia. It operated regional and trunk routes from Ufa and charter services to Europe, Asia and North Africa. The company was founded in 1991 and liquidated in 2007.\n\nThe airline was originally set up as an Aeroflot division and was formerly part of the Samara-based Aerovolga. It had 1,513 employees at the time of its dissolution. In October 2006, its licence was revoked by the Russian safety agency FTOA. It was due to relaunch services in December 2006 following an inspection of one of its Tupolev Tu-154 aircraft in Iran, when the FTOA ruled that safety legislation had been met and services could restart. The restart never happened.\n\nAs of January 2005, BAL Bashkirian Airlines operated the following services:\n\nThe BAL Bashkirian Airlines fleet consisted of the following aircraft: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850040", "title": "Snake-in-the-box", "text": "Snake-in-the-box\n\nThe snake-in-the-box problem in graph theory and computer science deals with finding a certain kind of path along the edges of a hypercube. This path starts at one corner and travels along the edges to as many corners as it can reach. After it gets to a new corner, the previous corner and all of its neighbors must be marked as unusable. The path should never travel to a corner which has been marked unusable.\n\nIn other words, a \"snake\" is a connected open path in the hypercube where each node in the path, with the exception of the head (start) and the tail (finish), has exactly two neighbors that are also in the snake. The head and the tail each have only one neighbor in the snake. The rule for generating a snake is that a node in the hypercube may be visited if it is connected to the current node and it is not a neighbor of any previously visited node in the snake, other than the current node.\n\nIn graph theory terminology, this is called finding the longest possible induced path in a hypercube; it can be viewed as a special case of the induced subgraph isomorphism problem. There is a similar problem of finding long induced cycles in hypercubes, called the coil-in-the-box problem.\n\nThe snake-in-the-box problem was first described by , motivated by the theory of error-correcting codes. The vertices of a solution to the snake or coil in the box problems can be used as a Gray code that can detect single-bit errors. Such codes have applications in electrical engineering, coding theory, and computer network topologies. In these applications, it is important to devise as long a code as is possible for a given dimension of hypercube. The longer the code, the more effective are its capabilities.\n\nFinding the longest snake or coil becomes notoriously difficult as the dimension number increases and the search space suffers a serious combinatorial explosion. Some techniques for determining the upper and lower bounds for the snake-in-the-box problem include proofs using discrete mathematics and graph theory, exhaustive search of the search space, and heuristic search utilizing evolutionary techniques.\n\nThe maximum length for the snake-in-the-box problem is known for dimensions one through eight; it is\nBeyond that length, the exact length of the longest snake is not known; the best lengths found so far for dimensions nine through thirteen are\n\nFor cycles (the coil-in-the-box problem), a cycle cannot exist in a hypercube of dimension less than two. The maximum lengths of the longest possible cycles are\nBeyond that length, the exact length of the longest cycle is not known; the best lengths found so far for dimensions nine through thirteen are\n\n\"Doubled coils\" are a special case: cycles whose second half repeats the structure of their first half, also known as \"symmetric coils\". For dimensions two through seven the lengths of the longest possible doubled coils are\nBeyond that, the best lengths found so far for dimensions eight through thirteen are\n\nFor both the snake and the coil in the box problems, it is known that the maximum length is proportional to 2 for an \"n\"-dimensional box, asymptotically as \"n\" grows large, and bounded above by 2. However the constant of proportionality is not known, but is observed to be in the range 0.3 - 0.4 for current best known values.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850041", "title": "Citizen V", "text": "Citizen V\n\nCitizen V is the codename of several fictional superheroes appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nThe original incarnation (John Watkins) first appeared in \"Daring Mystery Comics\" (Jan 1942), during the Golden Age of Comic Books. However, the identity was revived in the modern day via \"Thunderbolts\". The various incarnations have usually been affiliated with the V-Battalion organization.\n\nThe \"V\" in the character's and group's name is the letter \"V\" - as opposed to the Roman numeral 5 - and is derived from the World War II-era slogan \"V for Victory\".\n\nThe original version of Citizen V was John Watkins, an Englishman who assisted the resistance in Nazi-occupied France. He led a group of freedom fighters called the V-Battalion. He was killed in action by Heinrich Zemo, and other individuals eventually took up the Citizen V identity.\n\nThe second version of Citizen V was Paulette Brazee (also known as the She-Wolf), the French lover of John Watkins and mother of JJ Watkins. During the war, she was a spy sent to romance Baron Zemo. Paulette betrayed Zemo and eventually discovered she was pregnant. When John and the majority of the V-Battalion were slaughtered by Zemo, the remaining survivors had Paulette smuggled to England. There Paulette met a red-headed soldierwhom she married. After the V-Battalion was reconstituted in 1951, Paulette was given the Citizen V role. The V-Battalion began hunting down Nazi war criminals and was allowed to place their secret headquarters Castle Masada in Symkaria. In 1953, Paulette was sent on a mission to Argentina to find Nazi scientist Johann Weimer and bring the scientist to the V-Battalion so they could use the Nazi's skills for them. Weimer was murdered by one of the Everlasting, a group of gods who had frequent run-ins with the V-Battalion.\n\nThe third version of Citizen V is John \"JJ\" Watkins Jr., the alleged son of John Watkins Sr. and Paulette Brazee (although an affair between Paulette and Baron Zemo had been implied). In 1953, he was nine years old so he was presumably born in 1944. Since his father died before he was born and his mother was often away on missions as Citizen V during his childhood, JJ was primarily raised by nannies employed by the V-Battalion. In 1971, JJ asked the Shadow King for help in researching the Everlasting. JJ died when his own son was two years old.\n\nThe supervillain Helmut Zemo took the Citizen V name for his imposture as a superhero when various superheroes were thought to be killed. Claiming to be John Watkins' grandson, Helmut took the name as an ironic taunt, due to the fact that his father had murdered the original war hero. Helmut assembled a group of villains and changed their costumes and codenames to pretend to be a new superhero team. Helmut's leadership and fighting abilities allowed him to successfully pose as Citizen V. Eventually, Helmut revealed himself as a villain and was defeated by the Avengers, the Fantastic Four and the Thunderbolts that turned against him. This marked the end of Helmut's Citizen V tenure and he went back to using the Baron Zemo title. Helmut would eventually come into conflict with a subsequent Citizen V (Dallas Riordan). Eventually, Zemo had the opportunity to play Citizen V for a second time: Helmut gets beheaded after a battle with Scourge (a.k.a. Nomad), and his mind was ironically arranged to end up in the comatose body of John Watkins III. Helmut took back the Citizen V identity, and due to a deal worked out between the V-Battalion and the CSA he began recruiting members for the Redeemers. As Citizen V, he soon discovered that Baron Strucker was the mastermind that manipulated Henry Peter Gyrich into sending Scourge; Helmut got his revenge by chopping off Strucker's hand. Helmut returned to the Redeemers, but they were soon wiped out by Graviton. Helmut escaped the battle, but perhaps due to Watkins's influence, he came back to fight Graviton with the re-assembled Thunderbolts. The battle ended with the Thunderbolts being sent to Counter-Earth. The V-Battalion had tried to teleport Citizen V away and were successful but due to a fluke, Helmut's mind was not transported with Watkins's body and Helmut found himself trapped in the Fixer's tech-pack (later, he had the Fixer place his mind into his Counter-Earth counterpart's body).\n\nDallas Riordan was the Thunderbolts' liaison to the Office of the Mayor of New York. The Mayor of New York had wanted to capitalize on the Thunderbolts' popularity after the Avengers and Fantastic Four were presumed deceased during a fight with Onslaught. When the Thunderbolts were revealed as villains, Dallas was devastated and fired by the Mayor of New York, but was soon offered a job with the V-Battalion by Roger Aubrey. Vengeful for what the Thunderbolts did to her, she agreed to become Citizen V and soon confronted Helmut Zemo in Mexico and later in South America alongside Captain America. Initially, Dallas wore a padded uniform identical to Helmut's purple-tinged Citizen V costume, and appeared to be male. After Captain America deduced her true gender from the way she moved in combat, Dallas stopped disguising her gender and donned a new uniform with the blue tint. Dallas soon went after the Thunderbolts and encountered Hawkeye. Too busy trying to deal with the Crimson Cowl's weather machine, Hawkeye refused to deal with Dallas. Shamed by Hawkeye, Dallas decided to help stop the Crimson Cowl's weather machine, but was knocked unconscious when she tried to do so. When the Crimson Cowl was defeated, she teleported away and teleported Dallas into her costume. Dallas went to jail for the Crimson Cowl's crimes and was far too bitter to admit the truth to the Thunderbolts. Dallas was rescued from jail by the V-Battalion. When she tried to track down the Crimson Cowl, she instead ran afoul of the Imperial Forces of America (a group which, unknown to her, was funded by Helmut Zemo). Dallas parted ways with the V-Battalion when she was ordered to assassinate Henry Peter Gyrich, a victim of the mind-controlling nanite conspiracy orchestrated by Baron Strucker. Dallas went to the Thunderbolts for help, but was abducted by the Crimson Cowl. The two fought a long battle and Dallas was left paralyzed after falling off a bridge. Dallas's paternal grandfather was a member of the V-Battalion and stayed in Europe after WWII and died on a mission for the V-Battalion. This is why Dallas was selected to be Citizen V.\n\nJohn Watkins III was raised to be a version of Citizen V. He presumably served as a field agent for the V-Battalion before he actually took the Citizen V title and was left comatose for five years. When Helmut Zemo's mind was placed in his body, John was remarkably healthy for someone who had been in a bed for five years. When Helmut was no longer in his body, John decided to change costumes and stayed on as Citizen V. He soon found himself fighting the Everlasting. He installed ULTIMATUM as the leader of the country Rumekistan, a decision which later came back to haunt him. Under the holographic guise of Nenad Petrovic, Watkins orchestrated events to make Cable as Rumekistan's leader.\n\nThere is a mention in \"Citizen V\" (vol. 2) that John Watkins III is the seventh version of Citizen V.\n\nRoberto da Costa began to lead the U.S.Avengers under the Citizen V alias.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel version of Citizen V (John Watkins) is depicted as a normal GI in a special uniform. The American soldier rallies his men in the face of a Japanese onslaught in 1942. However, he is shot and killed with his blood staining the American flag. A photograph of this image is released around the world to which President Franklin Roosevelt demands a true super-soldier rather than a normal one in a special uniform.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850051", "title": "Minefield (Star Trek: Enterprise)", "text": "Minefield (Star Trek: Enterprise)\n\n\"Minefield\" is the twenty-ninth episode (production #203) of the science fiction television series \"\", the third episode of the second season. In this science fiction television episode that aired in October 2002, the spaceship the NX-01 is rocked by an explosion and the crew tries to deal with the situation.\n\nThe episode begins with Captain Archer in the captain's private mess, trying, unsuccessfully, to get to know Lieutenant Reed better. Meanwhile, \"Enterprise\" nears an uncharted and seemingly uninhabited planet for closer observation. Its proximity, however, triggers a cloaked mine, heavily damaging the ship and flooding Sickbay with injured crew members. Soon, another cloaked mine is detected as it attaches itself to the hull, but it doesn't immediately detonate for some reason. With the core already damaged, it is feared that a further detonation will totally disable the vessel. Reed then goes EV to try to disarm it. As a backup plan, Archer orders Commander Tucker to prepare to detach and jettison the affected section of hull plating.\n\nInitially Reed's efforts seem to be working, but an alien vessel suddenly decloaks, and fires warning shots at the ship. Ensign Mayweather assumes manual control and steers the ship carefully out of the minefield. During the maneuvers, however, a jolt accidentally activates another magnetic grappling arm that impales Reed's leg before attaching itself to the spaceship's hull, thus pinning him down. Archer also dons an EVA suit and attempts to disarm the mine under Reed's direction.\n\n\"Enterprise\" then makes first contact with the Romulan Star Empire when two Warbirds decloak and demand that they jettison the mine with Reed attached. Knowing that any attempt to cut the arm would set off the mine, Reed becomes insistent on sacrificing himself to save \"Enterprise\". Archer returns to the ship and requests two shuttle hatches from a puzzled Commander Tucker, also ordering him to detach the hull plate as planned. As the plates and the attached mine float off, he severs the spike holding Reed. This arms the mine, but Reed and Archer are also able to shield themselves from the resulting explosion. \"Enterprise\" then collects the crewmen before warping away from the secretive Romulans.\n\nMinefield is noted for its presentation of Star Trek's (in)famous cloaking technology to a space mine.\n\nThe damage incurred to Enterprise in \"Minefield\" forms the backstory to the following episode, \"Dead Stop\", in which NX-01 needs to be repaired.\n\nThe first home media release of \"Minefield\" was part of the season two DVD box set, released in the United States on July 26, 2005. A release on Blu-ray Disc for season two occurred on August 20, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850058", "title": "Le Freak", "text": "Le Freak\n\n\"Le Freak\" is a song by American R&B band Chic. It was the band's third single and first \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and R&B number-one song. Along with the tracks \"I Want Your Love\" and \"Chic Cheer\", \"Le Freak\" scored number one on the disco charts for seven weeks. The single achieved sales of 7 million and also scored number seven in the UK Singles Chart.\n\n\"Billboard\" magazine ranked it as the number 3 song for 1979. The song was ranked number 21 on \"Billboard\" magazine's top 100 songs of the first 55 years of the \"Hot 100\" chart. In 2018, it was selected for preservation in the National Recording Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or artistically significant.\"\n\nPart of the lyrics mention \"Stompin' at the Savoy\", referencing a song of the same name composed by Edgar Sampson. They also invite the listener to \"Come on down to 54\", a reference to Studio 54, which was a popular nightclub in New York City at that time.\n\nThis song commemorates Studio 54 in New York City for its notoriously long customer waiting lines, exclusive clientele, and discourteous doormen. According to guitarist Nile Rodgers, the song was devised during New Year's Eve 1977, as a result of his and bassist Bernard Edwards' being refused entrance to Studio 54, where they had been invited by Grace Jones, due to her failure to notify the nightclub's staff. He said the lyrics of the refrain were originally \"Fuck off!\" rather than \"Freak out!\"; for the documentary \"How to Make It in the Music Business\", he said that 'fuck off' was what the doorman had said to him when he slammed the door on them; first it was changed to \"freak off\" after Rodgers mused that they wouldn't be able to say 'fuck off' on the radio, but that sounded \"terrible\", so he changed it to 'freak out'.\n\nMC Lyte sampled the song \"Woo Woo (Freak Out)\" featuring Nicci Gilbert of the group Brownstone, which first appeared on the soundtrack to the 1998 movie \"Woo\" and also included on her album \"Seven & Seven\", titled \"Woo Woo (Party Time)\" which released three months later.\n\n\"Le Freak\" was the first song to score the number one position on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 three separate times. This record remained until 2008, when three different songs, \"Bleeding Love\" by Leona Lewis, \"Whatever You Like\" by T.I., and his follow-up single \"Live Your Life\", featuring Rihanna all achieved this feat. Bruno Mars also managed this in 2011 with \"Grenade\", as did The Weeknd with his 2015 single \"Can't Feel My Face\". On July 14, 2018, Drake surpassed all of these singles when his hit \"Nice For What\" reached the pole position four separate times. \n\nIn 1987, an acid house-styled re-mix was issued under the title \"Jack Le Freak\". It reached number 18 in the United Kingdom, becoming Chic's last top 40 hit to date in that country.\n\nIn 2010, \"Le Freak\" was covered by the electronica band Millionaires for the MTV movie \"Turn the Beat Around\". The bass line from the song was used by American industrial rock group My Life with the Thrill Kill Kult for their track, \"Waiting for Mommie\" on the \"Confessions of a Knife...\" album that was released in 1990 by Wax Trax! Records.\n\nThe song is also used in the films \"Heavy Weights\", \"The Last Days of Disco\", \"Mystery Men\", \"102 Dalmatians\", \"\", \"Shrek 2\", \"It's Pat!\", \"Son of the Mask\", \"Roll Bounce\", \"Diary of a Wimpy Kid\", \"Furry Vengeance\", \"Toy Story 3\", \"Super 8\", \"Buddy\", and \"Think Like a Man Too\".\n\nThe song was used in the second episode of the second season of \"RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars\" as a \"Lip Sync For Your Legacy\" song. It was performed by contestants Alaska and Katya, each seeking to win $10,000 and the power to eliminate a competitor.\n\nLe Freak shares melody and backing rhythm with the 2014 worldwide hit Uptown Funk recorded by Mark Ronson and Bruno Mars.\n\nAtlantic 7\" 3519, September 21, 1978\n\nAtlantic promo 12\" DSKO 131, 1978 / Atlantic 12\" DK 4700, 1978\n\nAtlantic 12\" DK 4620, 1978 / Atlantic Oldies promo 12\" DSKO 178, 1979\n"}
{"id": "1850065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850065", "title": "Juan Rivera (explorer)", "text": "Juan Rivera (explorer)\n\nJuan Maria Antonio Rivera (also spelled Ribera) was an 18th-century Spanish explorer who explored southwestern North America, including parts of Southern Rocky Mountains. In 1765, at the request of Governor Tomás Vélez Cachupin of New Mexico, he led an expedition from Santa Fe northward through present-day Utah and Colorado, partly in search of silver but also to help thwart the expansion of European powers in the region. His expedition passed through regions inhabited by the Ute and Southern Paiute tribes. His expedition cross the Los Animas River near present day Durango, Colorado (a tributary of the Colorado River), which he may have named. The ore samples he brought back to Santa Fe were among the first recorded discoveries of gold in present-day Colorado, although they created no particular interest at the time.\n\nJacobs, G. C. 1992. \"The Phantom Pathfinder\" Utah Historical Quarterly 60(3): 201 - 223.\n"}
{"id": "1850069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850069", "title": "Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (song)", "text": "Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (song)\n\n\"Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing\" is a popular song with music by Sammy Fain and lyrics by Paul Francis Webster. \nThe song was publicized first in the movie, \"Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing\" (1955), winning the Academy Award for Best Original Song. From 1967 to 1973, it was used as the theme song to \"Love is a Many Splendored Thing\", the soap opera based on the movie. The song's refrain is based on the aria \"Un bel dì vedremo\" from Giacomo Puccini’s opera, \"Madama Butterfly\".\n\nThe music was commissioned for the movie \"Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing\" and initially included in the film's Oscar-winning score, composed and conducted by Alfred Newman. Lyrics were subsequently added to make it eligible for the Best Original Song category of the Academy Awards. The original lyrics were rejected by the studio so new ones were written.\n\nThe best-selling version of the song was recorded by The Four Aces backed by the Jack Pleis Orchestra and issued by Decca Records as catalog number 29625. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart, and number one on both \"Billboard\" and \"Cash Box\" in 1955. The recording by The Four Aces is featured in the film \"Cookie\" (1989). It became a gold record. \n\nThis song has been a staple of Engelbert Humperdinck's live show since 1995.\nA version by Don Cornell was recorded approximately at the same time. It was issued by Coral Records as catalog number 61467. Bing Crosby recorded the song in 1955 for use on his radio show and it was subsequently included in the box set \"The Bing Crosby CBS Radio Recordings (1954-56)\" issued by Mosaic Records (catalog MD7-245) in 2009. The song has also been recorded by Ringo Starr (on his album \"Sentimental Journey\"), Frank Sinatra, Andy Williams, Shirley Bassey, Nat King Cole and Barry Manilow. Neil Sedaka recorded the song in Italian as \"L'Amore E' Una Cosa Meravigliosa\". Connie Francis recorded the song in Italian in 1960 during the work for her album \"More Italian Favorites\", although this version remains unreleased to this day. Francis also recorded the original English lyrics in 1961 for her album \"Connie Francis Sings 'Never on Sunday' and Other Title Songs from Motion Pictures\". The instrumental playback of this 1961 recording was also used when Francis cut a German-language version, \"Sag, weißt du denn, was Liebe ist\", in 1966. The song was about that time also performed by Fairuz in Arabian language (\"Zar Bisukun Al Lail\"). A Disco version was recorded by Tina Charles in 1980. Jeff Lynne recorded his version for his nostalgic cover album \"Long Wave\" in 2012.\n\nThis song can be heard in the movies \"Grease\", \"Private Parts\", \"St. Trinian's\", \"\", and \"The Nutty Professor 2\". The song, among others, was referenced in \"Moulin Rouge!\" when Christian says, \"Love is like oxygen - love is a many splendored thing - love lifts us up where we belong! All you need is love!.\"\n\nIt has been also heard in the series \"Bones\", in the 14th episode of the third season sung by Dr. Zack Addy (Eric Millegan).\n\n"}
{"id": "1850071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850071", "title": "ATRAN", "text": "ATRAN\n\nAtran, LLC () is a cargo airline based in Moscow, Russia. It operates cargo charters in Europe, Russia and the CIS. Its main base is Domodedovo International Airport, Moscow.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1942 as an Aeroflot agency, with the name Moscow Aviation Enterprise. The original function of the airline was to deliver spare parts for aircraft. In 1962 the airline had started operations of heavy freighters, and by the 1980 had a fleet of 29 covering the entire Soviet Union and changing its name to Transport Aviation.\n\nIn 1990, the company was created as the first independent airline in the Soviet Union and at the same time changing its name to Aviatrans. It became a private public limited liability company in 1993. The present name has been in use since January 1997. It is owned by its employees (73%), the state of Russia (25%) and public holdings (2%).\n\nSince 2011 Atran has been a subsidiary of Volga-Dnepr Group.\n\nAs of December 2018, the Atran fleet consists of the following aircraft with an average age of 20.3 years:\n\nAtran has previously operated the following aircraft types:\n\nOn 29 July 2007, an Atran Antonov An-12, registration RA-93912, crashed 4 km from Domodedovo International Airport after taking off on a flight on the route Moscow-Omsk-Bratsk, killing 7 crew members.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850073", "title": "One True", "text": "One True\n\nOne True is the fictional hegemonic software program that takes control of individual human minds and entire human societies in John Barnes' two \"Meme Wars\" novels \"Candle\" and \"The Sky So Big and Black\"; the novel \"Kaleidoscope Century\" details the years leading up to its existence and later (it finishes after the events described in \"The Sky So Big and Black\"). All four books are part of the \"Century Next Door\" series. One True operates collectively through \"Resuna\", a brain–computer interface implanted in every person.\n\nInitially known as the One True Church of Ecucatholicism, One True develops through exposure to other memes. Initially an aggressive religious meme, by the end of the War of Papal Succession (a.k.a. the Meme Wars) it has become an entity determined to fix the ecological damage wrought on earth as a result of the two major conflicts of the 2000s, in order to provide a safe place for humans to live.\n\nWhen the major conflict is over, Resuna is developed as a micro-meme that works to support One True as a massively distributed network instead of a large-scale meme that essentially erases the original personality of the person in whom it was installed. Resuna, taking up less space, is described as a tool that can be used by its \"wearer\" rather than a puppet-master pulling all of the wearer's strings. Through the use of cellular biochip implants, all people running the Resuna meme provide the computing power to operate One True. Benefits include being able to instantly access data assets (like satellite photography, GIS, instant messaging, and more) as well as control of autonomic functions (e.g. controlled release of endorphins). Resuna essentially performs the functions of a semi-intelligent personal digital assistant.\n\nHowever, Resuna also provides a method for One True to control its human units completely, as needed. While working towards essentially common goals, this distributed approach means that Resuna is willing to sacrifice individuals if it determines that the greater good will be served. Free will is also removed, as the distributed network can override any individual actions that it determines are not in the best interests of the community.\n\nAt the end of \"Candle\", One True deliberately allows a human with Resuna to become infected with the final version of the Freecyber meme, which was deployed during the Meme Wars to fight One True. One True reveals that it no longer wishes to have the absolute control it enjoyed for the first decades of its existence. It begins the process of freeing individuals from Resuna using Freecyber, which leaves them in complete control of their own actions, while still able to participate in the global net-based consciousness.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850084", "title": "Aviacon Zitotrans", "text": "Aviacon Zitotrans\n\nJSC \"Aviacon Zitotrans\" (, \"OAO Aviakompaniya «Aviakon Tsitotrans»\") is an airline based in Yekaterinburg, Russia. It was established and started operations in June 1995 and specializes in air transportation of heavy and outsize, high-value, dangerous goods, aerospace equipment, sea containers, humanitarian, government, military, live cargo on IL-76 TD worldwide. It has more than 170 employees and its main base is Koltsovo International Airport, Yekaterinburg. In 2008 the name of the company was changed to Aviacon Air Cargo.\n\nAviacon Zitotrans is a privat charter cargo company with a main base in Koltsovo International Airport, Yekaterinburg. Throughout the years, Aviacon's fleet moved thousands of tons of relief goods, vehicles and trucks, containers, helicopters, and roll-on/roll-off machinery, outsize and heavyweight pieces, from and via more than 750 airfields in 158 countries of the world.\n\nAs of July 2012, the Aviacon Zitotrans fleet includes the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850088", "title": "Wellington (City of Wellington's Own) and Hawke's Bay Regiment", "text": "Wellington (City of Wellington's Own) and Hawke's Bay Regiment\n\nThe Wellington (City of Wellington's Own) and Hawke's Bay Regiment was a Territorial Force regiment of the New Zealand Army. It was formed in 1964 during the reorganisation of the army by the amalgamation of two separate regiments:\n\nThis amalgamation saw the new regiment become a TF battalion of the Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment. This was until the later reorganisation of 1999, which saw the TF battalions split from the RNZIR to become multi-function battalion groups. The Wellington and Hawke's Bay Regiment became the 7th Wellington and Hawke's Bay Battalion Group, with the following unit types:\n\nIn December 2012 the regiment was amalgamated with the 5th Wellington West Coast Taranaki Battalion Group to form the 5/7 Battalion, Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment (5/7 RNZIR).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850095", "title": "Daniel Kawczynski", "text": "Daniel Kawczynski\n\nDaniel Robert Kawczynski (Polish: \"Kawczyński\", ; born 24 January 1972) is a British Conservative Party politician who has served as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Shrewsbury and Atcham since 2005. \n\nIn the past he has served as Parliamentary Private Secretary at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, a parliamentary aide to the former Welsh Secretary David Jones, as well as serving as a member of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee and as Special Advisor to Prime Minister David Cameron on Central and Eastern Europe and on Central and Eastern Europeans living in the United Kingdom.\n\nKawczynski was born on 24 January 1972 in Warsaw. His parents were Leonard and Halina Kawczynski. He came to Britain with his mother at the age of six. He was educated at St George's College, Weybridge, an independent Roman Catholic school in Surrey, followed by Birmingham Polytechnic and then the University of Stirling where he studied business studies and French, graduating in 1994. He served as president of the university's Conservative Association in 1991.\n\nHe worked in the business entertainment industry before he became an international account manager in the telecommunications industry, a position he held for ten years from 1994 to 2004.\n\nKawczynski unsuccessfully stood as the Conservative Party candidate in the 2001 general election for Ealing Southall in London, coming second with 18% of the vote. At the following general election Kawczynski was selected as the Conservative Party candidate for the Shrewsbury and Atcham constituency. He was elected at the 2005 general election, succeeding the Labour MP Paul Marsden with 37.7% of the vote. \n\nUpon entering Parliament he established the All Party Parliamentary Group for milk farmers to help milk farmers in his constituency. He sat as a member of both the International Development Select Committee and the Justice Select Committee, but was criticised by the \"Birmingham Post\" in 2009 for failing to regularly attend the meetings of the Select Committees to which he had been appointed. Kawczynski was recorded as having attended only 12.5% of all Justice Select Committee meetings and 31.3% of International Development Select Committee meetings during the previous last Parliamentary session. He stated the figure for the international development committee was wrong and he had been unable to attend the justice committee meetings because they clashed.\n\nIn 2007, he signed an Early Day Motion that welcomed the \"positive contribution made to the health of the nation by the NHS homeopathic hospitals\". In May 2008, he voted to lower the abortion time limit to 12 weeks, and has said that he believes an abortion limit of 24 weeks is incompatible with the kind of \"Christian society\" he wishes to live in. He voted against a House of Lords amendment to abolish the offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel under common law. In October 2009, Kawczynski appeared on \"The Doha Debates\" as a delegate supporting the motion of \"This house deplores the release of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset al-Megrahi\". In the wake of the Westminster Parliamentary Expenses scandal in 2009, Kawczynski was ordered to repay £4000 for rent costs that he had over-claimed. In 2010, Kawczynski called for the ban on fox hunting to be repealed by the Conservative government.\n\nHe was re-elected at the 2010 general election with 43.9% of the vote. In September 2012, he was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to the new Secretary of State for Wales, David Jones. When Jones lost his role in 2014, Kawczynski became advisor to the Prime Minister David Cameron on Eastern and Central European Diaspora. Kawczynski voted in favour of same sex marriage in 2013, revealing shortly afterwards that he was in a same-sex relationship. Kawczynski was chair of the All-Party Group for Saudi Arabia between 2011 and 2016, during his time as chairman he led delegations to the country. he was chair of the All-Party Group for Libya but that group has now ceased to exist. In October 2013, Kawczynski received widespread press attention for berating a one-legged wheelchair user for begging outside the Houses of Parliament.\n\nKawczynski held his seat in the 2015 general election. In the 2016 Conservative Party leadership election, he supported Michael Gove.\n\nHe was re-elected in the 2017 general election. It was reported in early November 2017 that Kawczynski had been reprimanded in front of witnesses by Eleanor Laing, Conservative MP and the deputy speaker, for asking a young researcher employed by Laing to go on a date with a rich businessman contact of his who was \"older than her father\". The incident in January 2013, according to \"Channel 4 News\" in November 2017, was preceded by an intermediary making the same approach several times. Laura Hughes, writing for \"The Daily Telegraph\", reported that Kawczynski has been referred to the Conservative's new disciplinary committee. He has admitted to the incident, but rejects the accusation of inappropriate conduct. Kawczynski expressed support for a prospective leadership bid by Jacob Rees-Mogg in 2018. In 2020, he was reprimanded for sharing a platform with right-wing populist politicians such as Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban and the former deputy prime minister of Italy Matteo Salvini, at a conference organised by the Edmund Burke Foundation. He faced calls to be suspended from Parliament. He was eventually given a formal warning by the Conservative Party, but did not have the whip withdrawn.\n\nFrom February 2018, Kawczynski was paid £6,000 per month by the Electrum Group, a New York City-based investment, advisory and asset management firm owned by Thomas Kaplan. Kawczynski defended his association with the American company by saying that work for them would be done in his spare time. On 2 February 2019, Kawczynski was criticised for tweeting that the UK had received no Marshall Plan aid after World War II, in the context of a complaint about the alleged attitude of the European Union. He said, \"Britain helped to liberate half of Europe. She mortgaged herself up to eye balls in process. No Marshall Plan for us only for Germany. We gave up war reparations in 1990. We put £370 billion into EU since we joined. Watch the way ungrateful EU treats us now. We will remember.\" In fact, the United Kingdom received the most Marshall Plan funding of any country in Europe, receiving $2.7 billion in aid. Germany received $1.7 billion. After challenges, Kawczynski did not delete the tweet nor retract it.\n\nIn 2015, Kawczynski was described as a strong supporter of the Saudi Arabian government. On one of his trips to Saudi Arabia, Kawczynski told Salman Al Saud how proud he was of the military cooperation between the two countries. He later said that he was writing \"the most pro-Saudi book ever written by a British politician\" and that he had been \"battling against extraordinary ignorance and prejudice against Saudi Arabia for many years\".\n\nFollowing an appearance on \"Newsnight\" in which he defended the Saudi regime's approach to the war in Yemen and accused the programme of bias, Kawczynski threatened legal action after its editor Ian Katz suggested his strength of feeling on the issue might be linked to the size of the budget for his expenses on trips to Saudi Arabia. After Michael Gove cancelled a prison contract with Saudi Arabia, Kawczynski was so enraged that he slapped his forehead and shouted \"no!\" during a parliamentary debate on the issue.\n\nSince becoming the chair of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Poland in 2014, Kawczynski has supported a range of enterprises from his constituency in seeking business partners and export markets in Poland and other Central and Eastern European countries, offering support and advice. Kawczynski has been a frequent visitor to the British Polish Chamber of Commerce in Warsaw where he often described the importance of trade between Poland and the United Kingdom. \n\nIn 2016, Kawczynski was distinguished as an \"Outstanding Pole Abroad of 2016\" for his efforts in promoting trade and political relations between the United Kingdom and his country of birth. In 2017, Kawczynski joined calls for Germany to pay war reparations for crimes committed against the Allies and for the destruction of Poland during the Second World War. On 15 October 2017, Kawczynski sent a letter to German Chancellor Angela Merkel urging her to stop demanding money from the UK during the Brexit negotiations and pay Poland. In 2019, Kawczynski said he had asked the Polish Government to veto any requests for an extension of the Article 50 period that might be made by the UK Government.\n\nKawczynski is a vocal supporter of Brexit and former member of the European Research Group (the ERG), which he left in April 2019. In September 2018, Kawczynski, who strongly supports Brexit, said on Twitter that EU lemon growers are inefficient, and that the EU imposed tariffs on the import of fruit from non-EU Mediterranean countries, causing higher prices to consumers. Both claims were refuted.\n\nIn 2000 Kawczynski married Kate Lumb and they had a daughter; the couple divorced in 2011. In June 2013, he announced to his Conservative Association that his new partner was male. He was the second MP in Britain to come out as bisexual, the first being Liberal Democrat Simon Hughes. He married his Brazilian partner of eight years, Fernando, on 9 November 2019, in a civil partnership ceremony in the House of Commons. He currently lives in Shrewsbury, Shropshire. In his spare time he enjoys gardening and playing golf.\n\nIn 2010, Kawczynski published a book called \"Seeking Gaddafi\" about Muammar Gaddafi of Libya.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850098", "title": "Achondrogenesis", "text": "Achondrogenesis\n\nAchondrogenesis is a number of disorders that are the most severe form of congenital chondrodysplasia (malformation of bones and cartilage). These conditions are characterized by a small body, short limbs, and other skeletal abnormalities. As a result of their serious health problems, infants with achondrogenesis are usually born prematurely, are stillborn, or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure. Some infants, however, have lived for a while with intensive medical support.\n\nResearchers have described at least three forms of achondrogenesis, designated as Achondrogenesis type 1A, achondrogenesis type 1B and achondrogenesis type 2. These types are distinguished by their signs and symptoms, inheritance pattern, and genetic cause. Other types of achondrogenesis may exist, but they have not been characterized or their cause is unknown.\n\nAchondrogenesis type 1A is caused by a defect in the microtubules of the Golgi apparatus. In mice, a nonsense mutation in the thyroid hormone receptor interactor 11 gene (Trip11), which encodes the Golgi microtubule-associated protein 210 (GMAP-210), resulted in defects similar to the human disease. When their DNA was sequenced, human patients with achondrogenesis type 1A also had loss-of-function mutations in GMAP-210. GMAP-210 moves proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus. Because of the defect, GMAP-210 is not able to move the proteins, and they remain in the endoplasmic reticulum, which swells up. The loss of Golgi apparatus function affects some cells, such as those responsible for forming bone and cartilage, more than others.\n\nAchondrogenesis type 1B is caused by a similar mutation in SLC26A2, which encodes a sulfate transporter.\n\nAchondrogenesis, type 2 is one of several skeletal disorders caused by mutations in the \"COL2A1\" gene. Achondrogenesis, type 2 and hypochondrogenesis (a similar skeletal disorder) together affect 1 in 40,000 to 60,000 births.\n\n\"This article incorporates public domain text from The U.S. National Library of Medicine\"\n"}
{"id": "1850104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850104", "title": "Aviaenergo", "text": "Aviaenergo\n\nJSC Aviaenergo () was a charter airline with headquarters in Moscow, Russia. It was established on 31 December 1992 and operated charter flights within Europe, the CIS and other countries from its main base at Moscow Vnukovo Airport, as well as from Sheremetyevo International Airport. It was wholly owned by RAO UES, although UES, as part of its restructuring, had placed Avianergo on the market. Operations were suspended in 2011 due to poor financial performance (having approached bankruptcy in 2011)\n\nThe Aviaenergo fleet consisted of the following aircraft (as of 6 December 2009):\n\n"}
{"id": "1850105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850105", "title": "Austropop", "text": "Austropop\n\nAustropop is pop music from Austria, which came into use in the late 1960s, but had its heyday in the 1970s and early and up until the mid 1980s. Austropop comprises several musical styles, from traditional pop music to rock, and it also sometimes includes traditional folk elements such as yodeling.\n\nNeue Deutsche Welle does not count as Austropop, as it was definitely German and the lyrics were in Standard German, while Austropop artists made a distinction by decidedly using Austrian dialects for their lyrics.\n\nThe movement is believed to have started in 1971 by Wolfgang Ambros with his song \"Da Hofa\", although this is debated. Ambros became famous, however, by translating songs by Bob Dylan into Austrian German, the most famous of which is \"\"Naa, i bins ned\",\" the translation of Dylan's \"\"It Ain't Me Babe\".\"\n\nAustropop is still broadcast by various FM radio and TV stations throughout Austria and Bavaria, where they even have special nights replaying Austropop concerts.\n\nArtists of the Austropop movement include:\n"}
{"id": "1850107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850107", "title": "Essexite", "text": "Essexite\n\nEssexite (), also called nepheline monzogabbro (), is a dark gray or black holocrystalline plutonic igneous rock. Its name is derived from the type locality in Essex County, Massachusetts, in the United States.\n\nModern petrology identifies rocks according to mineralogical criteria. Utilising the IUGS QAPF diagram of Streckeisen (1974) \"essexite\" is more formally known as nepheline monzodiorite or nepheline monzogabbro depending on the ratio of orthoclase to plagioclase and the abundance of nepheline.\n\nIn order to produce a magma composition suitable for forming essexite the partial melting of the source rocks must be restricted, generally to less than 10% partial melting. This favors producing a melt rich in large-ion lithophile elements (LILE) such as K, Ba, Rb, Cs, Sr. \n\nThe source melts of essexites contain more aluminium and alkali ions than available silica tetrahedra, which is why essexites crystallise nepheline instead of plagioclase. Higher than normal potassium favors the production of orthoclase, which is usually absent from most mafic igneous rocks.\n\nEssexite can be considered as an alkali gabbro or monzodiorite primarily composed of nepheline, plagioclase, with lesser amounts of alkali feldspar, with mafic minerals composed of any of the following; titanium augite (pyroxene), hornblende and biotite. \n\nTrace mineralogy may include magnetite, ilmenite and accessory olivine (<5%). \n\nEssexite grades into a nepheline monzogabbro with a decrease in potassium feldspar and an increase in the feldspathoid minerals.\n\nEssexite is an alkaline igneous rock equivalent to an alkaline basalt. The presence of nepheline, a feldspathoid mineral, indicates that essexites are silica undersaturated. The presence of orthoclase indicates that it contains sufficient potassium to favor production of orthoclase over microcline or potassic oligoclase. \n\nEssexites are generally rich in aluminium, alkalis (sodium and calcium), potassium (>3% KO), LILE-enriched (strontium, caesium and barium), as compared to tholeiitic basalts and gabbros.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850110", "title": "FamilyMart", "text": "FamilyMart\n\nFamilyMart is subsidiary of FamilyMart UNY Holdings, Ltd. which also owns supermarket chain Uny. The main shareholder is Itochu with a stake of 37.66%. Its headquarters is on the 17th floor of the Sunshine 60 building in Ikebukuro, Toshima, Tokyo. There are some stores in Japan with the name Circle K Sunkus under the operation of FamilyMart.\n\nAll of the usual Japanese convenience store goods such as basic grocery items, magazines, manga, soft drinks, alcoholic drinks like sake, nikuman, fried chicken, onigiri, and bento are available. FamilyMart is known for its distinctive doorbell melody, which is played upon entering the store. This melody is referred to as \"Melody Chime No.1 – Daiseikyou,\" and was originally developed by Yasuhi Inada in 1978.\n\nIn South Korea the original stores are now called \"CU\" and operated separately by BGF Retail. It used to be the largest chain store in South Korea.\n\nThe first FamilyMart opened in Sayama, Saitama Prefecture in 1973.\n\nThe store kept growing, opening 500 stores every 3 years. In 2002, it was listed as a company.\n\nFamilyMart currently has franchise stores in Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, China, and Vietnam.\n\nIn October 2013, FamilyMart opened its 10,000th store in Japan. Operations in certain parts of Asia, especially China, continue to expand.\n\nAs of January 2018, there are 24,243 stores worldwide, with fast growth in Asia outside Japan. There are 17,409 stores in Japan, 3,165 stores in Taiwan, 2,177 stores in China, 1,138 stores in Thailand, 66 stores in the Philippines, 165 stores in Vietnam, 87 stores in Indonesia, and 70 stores in Malaysia.\n\nFamilyMart has stores located in all prefectures of Japan.\n\nFamilyMart opened its first store in Shanghai, China in 2004. Since then, the chain has expanded to Guangzhou, Suzhou and Hangzhou. Other stores are in Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Wuxi, Beijing and Dongguan. By May 2019, there are more than 1430 FamilyMart stores in mainland China.\n\nOn 11 November 2016 at 11am, FamilyMart opened its first Malaysia's store at Wisma Lim Foo Yong in Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur. It has become popular because it is the first convenience store selling soft serve ice cream and fresh snacks.\n\nFamilyMart Malaysia are owned by QL Resources Bhd and Maxincome Resources Sdn Bhd. They had a 20-year agreement with FamilyMart Co Ltd.\n\nAll of FamilyMart Malaysia's food service and ready-to-eat selections are made with halal ingredients only. The service is currently in the midst of the halal application process with JAKIM. The products available in FamilyMart that are Halal certified will carry the Halal logo on its packaging. For products that are imported from Japan, Korea or Taiwan, the product ingredients will be vetted to ensure that no haram ingredients such as pork, lard or alcoholic substance were used. Customers will be able to read the ingredients information on the food or drinks packaging before purchase to ensure hassle-free consuming. In April 2019, FamilyMart Malaysia was one of the F&B outlets that was chosen by PLUS Malaysia Berhad, the largest expressway in Malaysia to set up their stores in one of the R&R areas.\n\nAs of 6 December, there are 162 stores nationwide, adding more than half of its stores long after its 100th store in Melaka. By 2025, there will be 1000 stores nationwide, bringing the \"konbini\" (Japanese convenience store) concept to Malaysia.\n\nFamilyMart was launched in the Philippines on April 7, 2013 under the ownership of Ayala Corporation, Rustan's Group and Itochu. Its first Philippine branch, opened on April 22, 2013, is located at the Glorietta 3 mall in Makati. In 2018, Davao-based conglomerate Udenna Corporation acquired the franchise from the triumvirate. There are now 66 stores in the Philippines.\n\nIn May 2012, there were around 9,255 convenience stores in Taiwan, which was equivalent of one store per 2,500 people. This is the highest number per capita in the world, and the number is still rising. 7-Eleven is the most popular convenience store in Taiwan, while FamilyMart is the second.\nFamilyMart sued to end its partnership with Ting Hsin in 2019, which would end a 15-year joint venture. Ting Hsin International Group was the top seller of instant noodles in the world in 2017, with a 15% share of the market.\n\nAs of January 2018, FamilyMart has a total of 3,165 stores in Taiwan, which accepts the highest bill payments of convenience stores in Taiwan, with over 100 million bills per year.\n\nFamilyMart opened its first store in Vietnam in 2009, starting in Ho Chi Minh City. Initially the stores were operated in a joint venture with Vietnamese distributor Phu Thai Group, after 2013, both companies went their own way, and Phu Thai Group took over a number of FamilyMart stores and started operating them under its own brand \"B's Mart\". As of 2017, FamilyMart operated 130 stores in Ho Chi Minh City.\n\nAt the end of May 2012, the number of operating FamilyMart stores had reached 7,271. In June 2012, FamilyMart of South Korea, which was being run by FamilyMart Corporation and BGF Retail, was renamed and converted to 'CU' under ownership of BGF Retail after an order coming from BGF Retail that required FamilyMart to leave the South Korean market, and to cease operations there. At the end of March 2014, FamilyMart withdrew from the South Korean market completely. The stores are now called CU. The motto is \"Convenience for you\".\n\nIn addition, South Korean franchisees had operated a number of stores at Kaesong Industrial Region and Mount Kumgang Tourist Region in North Korea for South Korean visitors and workers, all the stores are now closed.\n\nBeginning in July 2005, FamilyMart began building and opening several stores in Los Angeles, California, the first of 250 planned for the United States by 2009. The North American brand name is \"Famima!!\".\n\nIn November 2010, FamilyMart announced it would freeze the number of locations in the United States to 10 stores due to the difficult economic environment.\n\nIn October 2015, FamilyMart closed all eight of its Famima!! convenience stores in the United States and liquidated Famima Corp. USA, withdrawing from the United States.\nFamilyMart has had solar power at some of its stores since at least 2004. It aims to increase its solar energy footprint in the future. There are around 45,000 convenience stores in Japan. Lawson run just under 10,000, a market share just behind 7-Eleven, who have about 13,000 stores. Currently, only 20 of Lawson's stores are equipped with solar equipment, but they plan to expand that number ahead of the 1 July 2012 introduction of a \"feed-in tariff system\", which the government and electricity companies say guarantees purchases of electricity from renewable sources such as solar or wind generators. Surplus power can be sold only after in-store lighting and air-conditioning have been powered.\n\nOn 30 January 2006, FamilyMart began trials of an automatic cashier station at one of its Tokyo stores in cooperation with Itochu and Toshiba. Special tags on items in the customer's shopping basket are remotely and instantly sensed at the register.\n\nSeventeen convenience store owners of FamilyMart stores formed a union and requested collective bargaining with the company. They were refused and sued. In April 2015 the Central Labor Commission of Japan found that FamilyMart had violated the Trade Union Law by refusing to negotiate with the union. The franchise owners were recognized as employees under the trade union law, and the company was ordered to pledge to the union that it would not repeat the offence.\n\nIn August 2019, footage emerged of as many as six rats scurrying through a FamilyMart store in Shibuya, near sushi displays and down aisles. FamilyMart responded by shutting the store, in order to investigate the cause of the problem, and apologised if the \"unsanitary\" footage had made customers feel \"uneasy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850114", "title": "Jan Tarło (1527–1587)", "text": "Jan Tarło (1527–1587)\n\nJan Tarło (c. 1527–1587) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nJan was Wojski of Lwów from 1555 to 1554, courtier on the royal court since 1554, secretary of the King since 1556, castellan of Małogoszcz since 1563 and of Radom since 1565, voivode of Lublin Voivodeship since 1574 and starost of Łomża and Pilzno.\n"}
{"id": "1850116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850116", "title": "Myxobolus", "text": "Myxobolus\n\nMyxobolus is a genus of myxozoa that includes important parasites of fish like \"Myxobolus cerebralis\". The genus is polyphyletic, with members scattered throughout the myxozoa. Some stages of \"Myxobolus\" species were previously thought to be different organisms entirely, but are now united in this group.\n\nSource: World Register of Marine Species\n\n"}
{"id": "1850118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850118", "title": "Epson QX-10", "text": "Epson QX-10\n\nThe Epson QX-10 is a microcomputer running CP/M or TPM-III (CP/M-80 compatible) which was introduced in 1983. It was based on a Zilog Z80 microprocessor, running at 4 MHz, provided up to 256 KB of RAM organized in four switchable banks, and included a separate graphics processor chip (µPD7220) manufactured by NEC to provide advanced graphics capabilities. In the USA and Canada, two versions were launched; a basic CP/M configuration with 64 KB RAM and the HASCI configuration with 256 KB RAM and the special HASCI keyboard to be used with the bundled application suite, called Valdocs. The European and Japanese versions were like the CP/M configurations. TPM-III was used for Valdocs and some copy protected programs like Logo Professor.\n\nThe machine had internal extension slots, which could be used for extra serial ports, network cards or third party extensions like an Intel 8088 processor, adding MS-DOS compatibility.\n\nRising Star Industries was the primary American software vendor for the HASCI QX series. Their product line included the TPM-II and III operating system, Valdocs, a robust Basic language implementation, a graphics API library used by a variety of products which initially supported line drawing and fill functions and was later extended to support the QX-16 color boards, Z80 assembler, and low level Zapple machine code monitor which could be invoked from dip switch setting on the rear of the machine.\n\nThe \"Abacus\" boots MS-DOS 2.11 from 64 KB ROM and has 3½\" floppy drives. The sound chip and the joystick ports are more like a gamer's machine.\n\nIts successor, the dual-processor QX-16, added a 16-bit Intel processor with Color Graphics Adapter enabling it to also boot MS-DOS 2.11. The case of the QX-16 was enlarged to provide enough physical space for an internal hard-drive in contrast to the QX-10's dual-floppy configuration.\n\nVALuable DOCumentS by Rising Star Industries is a pseudo-GUI WYSIWYG integrated software/OS for document creation and management, written as a set of interactive application and system modules which ran only on Epson's QX-10 and QX-16 computers. A version designed to run on the IBM PC was in development when Rising Star closed in 1986.\n\nValdocs shipped to beta testers c. late 1982. Beta and initial production releases of Valdocs' application modules were written in the Forth programming language while its system-oriented modules (such as E-Mail and disk utilities) were written in Z-80 Assembly Language. Later releases of Valdocs' applications were written in the C programming language with some modules written in compiled RSI Basic.\nThe initial release of Valdocs included WYSIWYG word processor and spreadsheet applications (with onscreen fonts, an UNDO key, keyboard macros and multiple screen formats), a cardfile database, an E-Mail/communications module, and a desktop manager with an address book, mailing list manager, notepad, spell checker, ValDraw & ValPaint, calculator and more. The E-Mail program worked in the background allowing mail to be sent by modem to another computer. Valdocs was one of the first environments that allowed users to embed items like spreadsheets and figures in word processing documents. \n\nChris Rutkowski and Roger Amidon worked on the preliminary QX-10 design; Amidon continued designing software for the QX system after Epson and Rising Star Inc. stopped production. Graphic and other software for the QX-10 and QX-16 were developed by program designers such as Dan Oja and Nelson Donley.\n\nSwitching between programs was done by pressing an associated hotkey on the QX-10's keyboard (which was specifically designed to support Valdocs, including an UNDO key) or by selecting a program from a menu the hotkey invoked. The keyboard was referred to as HASCI (Human Application Standard Computer Interface) after the user interface with the same name pioneered by Rising Star Industries.\n\nValdocs on the QX-10 was very slow and buggy. \"InfoWorld\"s 1983 review of the QX-10 described the software as \"\"great idea, questionable implementation\"\". It reported that Valdocs on the computer \"is \"slow\". Sometimes it merely dawdles slightly, but other times, it \"crawls\". Entering text becomes a disconcerting pastime when the screen display lags as many as 60 characters behind your typing, and you lose characters\". The magazine added that \"VALDOCS crashed (failed) numerous times while we were using it to write this review. We lost data each time, came close to losing a whole disk, and ended up \"retyping\" it into our trusty IBM PC to meet deadline\". It advised users to backup their files, but stated that since the process was so slow the computer encouraged them to avoid doing so until it was too late. While praising the QX-10 itself (\"Physically this is an excellent machine\") and Valdocs' ease of use, Jerry Pournelle wrote in \"BYTE\" in August 1983 that \"the first problem is obvious from the other side of the room. The Valdocs system is \"slow\". It seems to take forever to do disk operations ... Getting from the beginning to the end of a six-page document takes 15 seconds. Deleting the first three pages of the same document takes 20 seconds\". He believed that the software \"has pushed the Zilog Z80 chip \"past\" its limits ... I don't think Valdocs will ever run properly until something like the 8086 or 68000 is used\".\n\nIn January 1984 Pournelle reported that version 1.18 \"is fast, [but] it's not fast enough for me, my wife, or my assistant. In particular, it is \"not\" designed to be used as a substitute for an office machine. It simply takes too darned long to get a business letter out using Valdocs. Just getting the envelope addressed can take a full minute or longer.\" He reiterated that \"the hardware is fine\", but wondered if \"the industry need yet another Z80 computer for more than $2500\" without usable software. Pournelle concluded, \"I cannot in good conscience recommend [Valdocs] to anyone who has actual production work to perform. It's just too darned slow.\" The president of one QX-10 user group complained in April that the word processor was \"slow compared to my mother running the mile ... I have four different versions and not one works well\". \"Creative Computing\"s mostly favorable review of the computer and software in June also noted the slow speed of the Valdocs editor, calling it \"maddeningly slow in many cases\". It noted that the QX-10's 4 MHz processor was not at fault, because other word processors ran as fast as on other 8-bit CP/M computers. Despite Epson's promise of speed improvements, Valdocs 2 remained slow; \"InfoWorld\"s 1985 review of the QX-16 reported that the computer was \"severely limited by [Valdocs'] slow operation\". While the reviewer did not report crashes, a \"small but perceptible delay\" between pushing a key and the character appearing on the screen when using the word processor grew over time to be \"significant and would annoy heavy-duty word processing users\", and the spreadsheet was \"excruciatingly slow to do just about everything\". Pournelle concluded that year that Valdocs \"was fatally flawed\", noting that Epson advised Valdocs 2 users to share data between the chart maker and word processor with \"scissors, tape, and a copy machine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1850121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850121", "title": "Centre-Avia", "text": "Centre-Avia\n\nCentre-Avia Airlines (Авиакомпания \"ЦЕНТР-АВИА\") was an airline based in Moscow, Russia, operating domestic and international services. Its main base was Bykovo Airport, Moscow, from where it operated charter flights, plus, on working days, a scheduled flight from Moscow Domodedovo Airport to Nizhny Novgorod International Airport. In March 2007, the aircraft fleet of Centre-Avia consisted of four Yakovlev Yak-42.\n\nCentre-Avia was founded in 2000 and was owned by Bykovo Aircraft Repair Plant (29.4%), Bykovo Airport (20%), MRIK Investment (20%) and Resourcetrustbank (10.8%). In 2010, the company was liquidated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850130", "title": "Ecological stability", "text": "Ecological stability\n\nAn ecosystem is said to possess ecological stability (or equilibrium) if it is capable of returning to its equilibrium state after a perturbation (a capacity known as resilience) or does not experience unexpected large changes in its characteristics across time. Although the terms community stability and ecological stability are sometimes used interchangeably, community stability refers only to the characteristics of communities. It is possible for an ecosystem or a community to be stable in some of their properties and unstable in others. For example, a vegetation community in response to a drought might conserve biomass but lose biodiversity.\n\nStable ecological systems abound in nature, and the scientific literature has documented them to a great extent. Scientific studies mainly describe grassland plant communities and microbial communities. Nevertheless, it is important to mention that not every community or ecosystem in nature is stable (for example, wolves and moose on Isle Royale). Also, noise plays an important role on biological systems and, in some scenarios, it can fully determine their temporal dynamics.\n\nThe concept of ecological stability emerged in the first half of the 20th century. With the advancement of theoretical ecology in the 1970s, the usage of the term has expanded to a wide variety of scenarios. This overuse of the term has led to controversy over its definition and implementation.\n\nIn 1997, Grimm and Wissel made an inventory of 167 definitions used in the literature and found 70 different stability concepts. One of the strategies that these two authors proposed to clarify the subject is to replace \"ecological stability\" with more specific terms, such as \"constancy\", \"resilience\" and \"persistence\". In order to fully describe and put meaning to a specific kind of stability, it must be looked at more carefully. Otherwise the statements made about stability will have little to no reliability because they would not have information to back up the claim. Following this strategy, an ecosystem which oscillates cyclically around a fixed point, such as the one delineated by the predator-prey equations, would be described as persistent and resilient, but not as constant. Some authors, however, see good reason for the abundance of definitions, because they reflect the extensive variety of real and mathematical systems.\n\nWhen the species abundances of an ecological system are treated with a set of differential equations, it is possible to test for stability by linearizing the system at the equilibrium point. Robert May developed this stability analysis in the 1970s which uses the Jacobian matrix.\n\nAlthough the characteristics of any ecological system are susceptible to changes, during a defined period of time, some remain constant, oscillate, reach a fixed point or present other type of behavior that can be described as stable. This multitude of trends can be labeled by different types of ecological stability.\n\nDynamical stability refers to stability across time.\n\nA stable point is such that a small perturbation of the system will be diminished and the system will come back to the original point. On the other hand, if a small perturbation is magnified, the stationary point is considered unstable.\n\nLocal stability indicates that a system is stable over small short-lived disturbances, while global stability indicates a system highly resistant to change in species composition and/or food web dynamics.\n\nObservational studies of ecosystems use constancy to describe living systems that can remain unchanged.\n\n\"Resistance\" and \"inertia\" deal with a system's inherent response to some perturbation.\n\nA perturbation is any externally imposed change in conditions, usually happening in a short time period. Resistance is a measure of how little the variable of interest changes in response to external pressures. Inertia (or persistence) implies that the living system is able to resist external fluctuations. In the context of changing ecosystems in post-glacial North America, E.C. Pielou remarked at the outset of her overview, \n\"It obviously takes considerable time for mature vegetation to become established on newly exposed ice scoured rocks or glacial till...it also takes considerable time for whole ecosystems to change, with their numerous interdependent plant species, the habitats these create, and the animals that live in the habitats. Therefore, climatically caused fluctuations in ecological communities are a damped, smoothed-out version of the climatic fluctuations that cause them.\"\n\n\"Resilience\" is the tendency of a system to retain its functional and organizational structure and the ability to recover after a perturbation or disturbance. Resilience also expresses the need for persistence although from a management approach it is expressed to have a broad range of choices and events are to be looked at as uniformly distributed. \"Elasticity\" and \"amplitude\" are measures of resilience. Elasticity is the speed with which a system returns to its original / previous state. Amplitude is a measure of how far a system can be moved from the previous state and still return. Ecology borrows the idea of neighborhood stability and a domain of attraction from dynamical systems theory.\n\nResearchers applying mathematical models from system dynamics usually use Lyapunov stability.\n\nFocusing on the biotic components of an ecosystem, a population or a community possesses numerical stability if the number of individuals is constant or resilient.\n\nIt is possible to determine if a system is stable just by looking at the signs in the interaction matrix. \n\nThe relation between diversity and stability has been widely studied.\nDiversity can operate to enhance the stability of ecosystem functions at various ecological scales. For example, genetic diversity can enhance resistance to environmental perturbations. At the community level, the structure of food webs can affect stability. The effect of diversity on stability in food-web models can be either positive or negative, depending on the trophic coherence of the network. At the level of landscapes, environmental heterogeneity across locations has been shown to increase the stability of ecosystem functions \n\nThe term 'oekology' was coined by Ernst Haeckel in 1866. Ecology as a science was developed further during the late 19th and the early 20th century, and increasing attention was directed toward the connection between diversity and stability. Frederic Clements and Henry Gleason contributed knowledge of community structure; among other things, these two scientists introduced the opposing ideas that a community can either reach a \"stable climax\" or that it is largely \"coincidental and variable\". Charles Elton argued in 1958 that complex, diverse communities tended to be more stable. Robert MacArthur proposed a mathematical description of stability in the number of individuals in a food web in 1955. After much progress made with experimental studies in the 60's, Robert May advanced the field of theoretical ecology and refuted the idea that diversity begets stability. Many definitions of ecological stability have emerged in the last decades while the concept continues to gain attention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850132", "title": "Kansas evolution hearings", "text": "Kansas evolution hearings\n\nThe Kansas evolution hearings were a series of hearings held in Topeka, Kansas, United States from May 5 to 12, 2005 by the Kansas State Board of Education and its State Board Science Hearing Committee to change how evolution and the origin of life would be taught in the state's public high school science classes. The hearings were arranged by the Board of Education with the intent of introducing intelligent design into science classes via the Teach the Controversy method.\n\nThe hearings raised the issues of creation and evolution in public education and were attended by all the major participants in the intelligent design movement but were ultimately boycotted by the scientific community over concern of lending credibility to the claim, made by proponents of intelligent design, that evolution is the subject of wide dispute within the scientific and science education communities.\n\nThe Discovery Institute, hub of the intelligent design movement, played a central role in starting the hearings by promoting its Critical Analysis of Evolution lesson plan which the Kansas State Board of Education eventually adopted over objections of the State Board Science Hearing Committee, and campaigning on behalf of conservative Republican candidates for the Board.\n\nLocal science advocacy group Kansas Citizens for Science organized a boycott of the hearings by mainstream scientists, who accused it of being a kangaroo court and argued that their participation would lend an undeserved air of legitimacy to the hearings.\n\nKansas Board of Education member Kathy Martin declared at the beginning of the hearings, \"Evolution has been proven false. ID (Intelligent Design) is science-based and strong in facts.\" At their conclusion she proclaimed that evolution is \"an unproven, often disproven\" theory. \"ID has theological implications. ID is not strictly Christian, but it is theistic,\" asserted Martin.\n\nThe scientific community rejects teaching intelligent design as science; a leading example being the United States National Academy of Sciences, which issued a policy statement saying \"Creationism, intelligent design, and other claims of supernatural intervention in the origin of life or of species are not science because they are not testable by the methods of science.\" (See also List of scientific societies explicitly rejecting intelligent design)\n\nOn February 13, 2007, the Board voted 6 to 4 to reject the amended science standards enacted in 2005.\n\nThe hearings were one of a number of Discovery Institute intelligent design campaigns that sought to establish new science education standards consistent with conservative Christian beliefs, both in the state and nationwide, and reverse what they saw as a domination in science education by actual science, specifically the scientific theory of evolution, which they viewed as atheistic, in direct conflict to their religious beliefs.\n\nKansas Board of Education elections in 2004 gave religious conservatives a 6-4 majority. In 2005, prompted by the Kansas Intelligent Design Network and the Discovery Institute, the board sought new high school science standards. The revisions did not entirely eliminate evolution from instruction, but presented it as a theory greatly challenged and disputed, in line with the Discovery Institute's Teach the Controversy campaign. The new standards presented intelligent design as an alternative to evolution through the Institute's \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\". Board member Connie Morris sent a taxpayer-funded newsletter to constituents calling evolution an \"age-old fairy tale\" that was defended with \"anti-God contempt and arrogance.\" Describing herself as a Christian who believes in a literal interpretation of Genesis, Morris wrote that evolution was \"biologically, genetically, mathematically, chemically, metaphysically and etc. wildly and utterly impossible.\"\n\nThe Intelligent Design Network originally proposed over 20 pages of revisions to the science standards. Their proposals were rejected by the science standards committee (made up of Kansas scientists and educators) appointed by the Board of Education, and were also rejected by 12 independent scientists who reviewed the proposed revisions.\n\nEach side was invited to provide witnesses to testify before the board for intelligent design or evolution, with the taxpayers of Kansas covering the travel expenses. The scientific community refused to participate \"en masse\". The pro-intelligent design group, the Intelligent Design Network, invited 22 witnesses. Among these were a number of non-scientists, and a number of scientists with no professional experience in biology.\n\nOn November 8, 2005 the Kansas Board of Education approved the following changes to its science standards:\n\n\nIn addition to the over 70 scientific societies, institutions and other scientific professional groups that have issued statements supporting evolution education and opposing intelligent design, the Kansas Board of Education was presented a letter from 38 Nobel laureates, the \"Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity Nobel Laureates Initiative\", calling upon the Board of Education to reject intelligent design and support the teaching of evolution. It stated:\n\nLogically derived from confirmable evidence, evolution is understood to be the result of an unguided, unplanned process of random variation and natural selection. As the foundation of modern biology, its indispensable role has been further strengthened by the capacity to study DNA. In contrast, intelligent design is fundamentally unscientific; it cannot be tested as scientific theory because its central conclusion is based on belief in the intervention of a supernatural agent.\n\nThe Discovery Institute has consistently insisted that its \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\" lesson plan is not another attempt to open the door of public high school science classrooms for intelligent design, and hence supernatural explanations. Discovery Institute spokesman Casey Luskin in February 2006 coined the term \"false fear syndrome\" of those who said it was, and said:\n\nThis is simply another instance of Darwinists attempting to oppose critical analysis of evolution by pretending that it is equivalent to teaching intelligent design. This is a political tactic based upon misinformation, misrepresentation, emotions, and false fears.\n\nIn response, Nick Matzke says that it has proved that \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\" is a means of teaching all the intelligent design arguments without using the intelligent design label.\n\nThe Kansas science standards as proposed by the Discovery Institute and adopted by the state were said to be \"ID in disguise\" by an assistant of a Discovery Institute Fellow, confirming the criticisms of opponents to the standards. In discussing Discovery Institute radio commercials supporting their campaign airing in Kansas on the blog of William A. Dembski, Dembski's research assistant and co-moderator of the site, Joel Borofsky, said:\n\nTo the statement that the Kansas science standards had nothing to do with intelligent design but were only about teaching evolution in a \"balanced\" way, Borofsky responded:\n\nIt really is ID in disguise. The entire purpose behind all of this is to shift it into schools ... at least that is the hope/fear among some science teachers in the area. The problem is, if you are not going to be dogmatic in Darwinism that means you inevitably have to point out a fault or at least an alternative to Darwinism. So far, the only plausible theory is ID. If one is to challenge Darwin, then one must use ID. To challenge Darwin is to challenge natural selection/spontaneous first cause ... which is what the Kansas board is attempting to do. When you do that, you have to invoke the idea of ID.\n\nIn response to the reception to his comments, Dembski's research assistant issued a clarification, stating that he was only voicing his personal opinion, not that of others in the movement, and that he is Dembski's \"assistant on theological work, not necessarily the ID movement.\"\n\nThe Discovery Institute continues to deny allegations that its true agenda is religious, and downplays the religious source of much of its funding. In an interview of Stephen C. Meyer when ABC News asked about the Discovery Institute's many evangelical Christian donors the institute's public relations representative stopped the interview saying \"I don't think we want to go down that path.\"\n\nBoth the National Academy of Sciences and the National Science Teachers Association spoke out against the new science standards; in addition to separate statements from each opposing the standards, the two groups issued a joint statement that the new Kansas standards are improved, but as currently written, they overemphasize controversy in the theory of evolution and distort the definition of science. The National Academy of Sciences and National Science Teachers Association offered to work with the board to resolve these issues so the state standards could use text from the National Research Council's \"National Science Education Standards\" and National Science Teachers Association's \"Pathways to Science Standards\", though they ultimately declined to grant use of the text due to Kansas State Board of Education members insisting on language \"emphasizing controversy in the theory of evolution\" and \"distorting the definition of science.\"\n\nThe position of the scientific community is that there is no controversy to teach, that evolution is widely accepted within the scientific community as a valid, well-supported theory and that such disagreements that do exist are about the details of evolution's mechanisms, not the validity of evolution itself.\n\nFor example, the National Association of Biology Teachers in a statement endorsing evolution as noncontroversial quoted Theodosius Dobzhansky \"nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution\" and went on to state that the quote \"accurately reflects the central, unifying role of evolution in biology. The theory of evolution provides a framework that explains both the history of life and the ongoing adaptation of organisms to environmental challenges and changes.\" They emphasized that \"Scientists have firmly established evolution as an important natural process\" and that \"The selection of topics covered in a biology curriculum should accurately reflect the principles of biological science. Teaching biology in an effective and scientifically honest manner requires that evolution be taught in a standards-based instructional framework with effective classroom discussions and laboratory experiences.\"\n\nThe hub of the intelligent design movement, the Discovery Institute and its Center for Science and Culture, played a central role in bringing about the Kansas evolution hearings, first by supporting ID proponents in their bids for seats on the board, and later in aggressively lobbying for a \"Teach the Controversy\" solution. Teach the Controversy is a controversial political-action campaign originating from the Discovery Institute that seeks to advance an education policy for US public schools that introduces intelligent design to public school science curricula and seeks to redefine science to allow for supernatural explanations by eliminating \"methodological naturalism\" from science and replacing it with \"theistic realism\". Teach the Controversy proponents portray evolution as a \"theory in crisis.\"\n\nAs well as proposing its own draft science standards to the Kansas State Board of Education and \"Critical Analysis of Evolution\" high school lesson plan, the Discovery Institute participated in presenting a letter to the Kansas State Board of Education from Institute associate, Dr. Philip S. Skell. A notable intelligent design proponent, Dr. Skell's letter to the board touts the alleged benefits of the Teach the Controversy approach, as well his credentials as a member of the National Academy of Sciences, despite the fact the National Academy of Sciences issued a policy statement against the Teach the Controversy solution and intelligent design as a concept.\n\nTwo intelligent design proponents, John H. Calvert, a lawyer and a Managing Director of Intelligent Design Network, Inc., and William S. Harris, Ph.D., co-author with Calvert of \"Intelligent Design: The Scientific Alternative to Evolution\" (National Catholic Bioethics Quarterly, Autumn 2003) were instrumental in pushing for the successful adoption of the new standards, including submitting a \"Suggested Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law\" and numerous other documents. Both are active participants in the intelligent design movement.\n\nDiscovery Institute fellows used the media coverage of the hearings to take their message to the public. The Institute's vice president and program director, Stephen C. Meyer, appeared on the Fox News show \"The Big Story\" with John Gibson, where he debated Eugenie Scott, executive director of the National Center for Science Education. There Meyer sought to convey the Institute's message that debate over evolution is not a ploy to get religious ideas into public schools, that evolution is a theory in crisis, and that students were currently being taught in error there was no scientific controversy over evolution.\n\nThe proposed changes were not supported by most of the 26 members of the panel that reviews state science curriculum.\n\nOn November 8, 2005, the Board of Education voted to instruct science students along the lines of the Discovery Institute, that evolution could not rule out a supernatural or theistic source, that evolution itself was not fact but only a theory and one in crisis, and that ID must be considered a viable alternative to evolution.\n\nThe following is a list of those who testified in the Kansas evolution hearings (in order), most of whom are affiliated with the Discovery Institute and all of whom are intelligent design advocates or other forms of creationists, or advocates of some other form of anti-evolution.\n\nThe Kansas Board of Education voted 6–4 August 9, 2005 to include greater criticism of evolution in its school science standards, but it decided to send the standards to an outside academic for review before taking a final vote. The standards received final approval on November 8, 2005. The new standards were approved by 6 to 4, reflecting the makeup of religious conservatives on the board. In July 2006 the Board of Standards issued a \"rationale statement\" which claimed that the current science curriculum standards do not include intelligent design. Members of the scientific community critical of the standards contended that the board's statement was misleading in that they contained a \"significant editorializing that supports the Discovery Institute and the Intelligent Design network's campaign position that Intelligent Design is not included in the standards\", the standards did \"say that students should learn about ID, and that ID content ought to be in the standards\", and that the standards presented the controversy over intelligent design as a scientific one, denying the mainstream scientific view.\n\nKansas joined Ohio in adopting the Discovery Institute's Critical Analysis of Evolution public school science standards during that period. While other states were backing away from teaching alternatives to evolution, the Oklahoma House passed a bill Thursday, March 2, 2006 that contained Discovery Institute language encouraging schools to expose students to alternative views about the origin of life. Popular reaction included the creation of the intelligent design parody Pastafarianism (the worship of a Flying Spaghetti Monster). Its founder insisted it should be offered as a \"third\" theory on origins, suggesting possible legal action if it was not included and intelligent design was.\n\nOn August 1, 2006, 4 of the 6 conservative Republicans who approved the Critical Analysis of Evolution classroom standards lost their seats in a primary election. The moderate Republican and liberal Democrats gaining seats, largely supported by Governor Kathleen Sebelius, vowed to overturn the 2005 school science standards and adopt those recommended by a State Board Science Hearing Committee that were rejected by the previous board.\n\nOne of the members who lost her seat, Connie Morris, a conservative from St. Francis in the northwest corner of the state, pointed to the \"liberal media\" for her loss, noting that \"liberal opportunists\" do not mind \"slandering people and harming their families and their reputation and their business and their communities and their state ... It's a shame, and I feel bad for them when they face God on Judgment Day.\" Although four members who claimed to be born-again Christians remained on the Board, she believed that the new board would waste no time adopting new science standards, expecting that in the following January, when the new members were sworn in, the Board would rescind existing standards and adopt new ones that \"let government schools teach children that we are no more than chaotic, random mutants.\"\n\nOn February 13, 2007, the Board voted 6 to 4 to reject the amended science standards enacted in 2005. The definition of science was once again returned to \"the search for natural explanations for what is observed in the universe.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850134", "title": "Picard group", "text": "Picard group\n\nIn mathematics, the Picard group of a ringed space \"X\", denoted by Pic(\"X\"), is the group of isomorphism classes of invertible sheaves (or line bundles) on \"X\", with the group operation being tensor product. This construction is a global version of the construction of the divisor class group, or ideal class group, and is much used in algebraic geometry and the theory of complex manifolds.\n\nAlternatively, the Picard group can be defined as the sheaf cohomology group\n\nFor integral schemes the Picard group is isomorphic to the class group of Cartier divisors. For complex manifolds the exponential sheaf sequence gives basic information on the Picard group.\n\nThe name is in honour of Émile Picard's theories, in particular of divisors on algebraic surfaces.\n\n\nand since formula_6 we have formula_7 because formula_8 is contractible, then formula_9 and we can apply the Dolbeault isomorphism to calculate formula_10 by the Dolbeault-Grothendieck lemma.\n\nThe construction of a scheme structure on (representable functor version of) the Picard group, the Picard scheme, is an important step in algebraic geometry, in particular in the duality theory of abelian varieties. It was constructed by , and also described by and . The Picard variety is dual to the Albanese variety of classical algebraic geometry.\n\nIn the cases of most importance to classical algebraic geometry, for a non-singular complete variety \"V\" over a field of characteristic zero, the connected component of the identity in the Picard scheme is an abelian variety written Pic(\"V\"). In the particular case where \"V\" is a curve, this neutral component is the Jacobian variety of \"V\". For fields of positive characteristic however, Igusa constructed an example of a smooth projective surface \"S\" with Pic(\"S\") non-reduced, and hence not an abelian variety.\n\nThe quotient Pic(\"V\")/Pic(\"V\") is a finitely-generated abelian group denoted NS(\"V\"), the Néron–Severi group of \"V\". In other words the Picard group fits into an exact sequence\n\nThe fact that the rank of NS(\"V\") is finite is Francesco Severi's theorem of the base; the rank is the Picard number of \"V\", often denoted ρ(\"V\"). Geometrically NS(\"V\") describes the algebraic equivalence classes of divisors on \"V\"; that is, using a stronger, non-linear equivalence relation in place of linear equivalence of divisors, the classification becomes amenable to discrete invariants. Algebraic equivalence is closely related to numerical equivalence, an essentially topological classification by intersection numbers.\n\nLet \"f\": \"X\" →\"S\" be a morphism of schemes. The relative Picard functor (or relative Picard scheme if it is a scheme) is given by: for any \"S\"-scheme \"T\",\nwhere formula_13 is the base change of \"f\" and \"f\" is the pullback.\n\nWe say an \"L\" in formula_14 has degree \"r\" if for any geometric point \"s\" → \"T\" the pullback formula_15 of \"L\" along \"s\" has degree \"r\" as an invertible sheaf over the fiber \"X\" (when the degree is defined for the Picard group of \"X\".)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850140", "title": "Fusagasugá", "text": "Fusagasugá\n\nFusagasugá (; ) or Fusa is a town and municipality in the department of Cundinamarca, in central Colombia. It is located in the warm valley between the rivers Cuja and Panches, a central region of the Andes Mountains in South America. The municipality has an estimated population of 134,523 as of 2015. The urban region has 108,157 inhabitants. The municipality itself covers an area of .\n\nIt was founded in 1592 by Spanish priests. The town located some 56 kilometers from the capital, Bogotá; borders Pasca, Arbeláez, Tibacuy, Silvania and other municipalities of Sumapaz. Its elevation is above sea level, and the average temperature .\n\nThe interpretation of the name in Spanish varies from \"\"Mujer que se hace invisible\"\" (Woman who becomes invisible) to \"\"Mujer que se esconde tras la montaña\"\" (Woman who hides herself behind the mountain). However, many people shorten its name to \"\"Fusa\"\".\n\nThe city has been named \"\"Tierra Grata\"\" due to the farms (\"Quintas\") located on its territory. And commonly is called The Garden City of Colombia (\"\"La Ciudad Jardín de Colombia\"\") by the production of Orchids.\n\nThe Sutagao people inhabited the region until the new town was founded by Oídor Bernardino Albornoz between 5–13 February 1592. Not much is known about the previous indigenous residents. During the visit of Oídor Ibarra, there were 759 indigenous people residing in Fusagasugá. When Oídor Aróstequi arrived in February 1760, the indigenous population had dwindled to 85, and there were 644 new settlers divided among 109 families. On February 19, 1760, a small hospital was established near the church and Father Vicente de Fresneda was given charge of it.\n\nDuring a visit, two officials, Moreno and Escandón, considering the decline in the indigenous population and the corresponding growth in the local settler population, issued a decree on January 8, 1776 that the native villages in the Fusagasugá area, Pandi and Tibacuy, no longer existed, and consolidated them into the present-day city of Pasca. In the wake of this decision, all streets and plazas in the cities were renamed.\n\nIn 1771, on the direction of the mayor of Fusagasugá, the viceroy Messia de la Zerda ordered the construction of a new avenue, Santafé, which would go from Fusagasugá, passing through the nearby town of Sibaté. On August 8, 1774, Father Francisco Escobar announced that Fusagasugá was on the road that passed over the mountains and led to the neighboring towns of Apicalá and Melgar; such that travelers could not reach Bermajal, located on the same mountain as Fusagasugá, without passing through Fusagasugá. This established the suburb's local importance.\n\nIn a directive issued August 7, 1846, the president of the Colombian republic nationally recognized the road from Fusagasugá to the southern provinces, which prompted the construction of a road over the Sumapaz River in Boquerón. In 1852, Fusagasugá became part of the province of Tequendama.\n\nOn February 9, 1877, a battle took place in the hacienda El Novillero between government forces led by General Mogollón and the rebels led by Colonel Juan Ardila and Lucas Moreno. The first hospital was constructed in 1893 by the Congregation of the Sacred Heart of Jesus with money donated by Don Manuel María Aya Caicedo and Lady Sagrado Cleofé Diaz, who also founded an adjoining nursing home. Following a directive issued on December 20, 1895, Fusagasugá was made capital of Sumapaz Province, which was created by National Directive 489 on November 7, 1895 and made into Law 162 in 1896.\nOn February 22, 1893, Dr José Manuel Goenaga, minister of works of President Miguel Antonio Caro, contracted the construction of a highway between Sibaté, Fusagasugá, and Boquerón. The project's engineer was Enrique Pabón Liévano, a native of Fusagasugá. The project was commenced in 1905 under the administration of President Rafael Reyes but suspended on February 10, 1906 because of an attack by the Barro Colorado. It resumed in March 1913. The highway reached Fusagasugá in 1930 and Arbeláez in 1934.\n\nIn 1907, an iron and wood bridge was finished over the Sumapaz River in Boquerón which was given the name \"Puente Eliseo Medina\" to honor the administration of the time. In 1930, the bridge was used by automobiles for the first time, and was replaced by the current bridge in 1953.\n\nBy article 12 of ordinance 21 in 1944, the construction of a highway between Fusagasugá and Boquerón by the river Llano commenced.\n\nThe first cemetery, which was on the site of \"Pekin\" opened in 1822. It was replaced by a second one in 1852 which was located in front of the hospital. A third cemetery was opened by the Cura Sabogal on October 31, 1910.\n\nIn 1929, in the Quinta Coburgo, the candidacy of Enrique Olaya Herrera was announced. In 1970, the Institute Técnico Universitario (Technical Institute University) was opened. It had been created by ordinance 45 issued on December 19, 1969 and established there by directive 537 on May 8, 1970 by Governor Joaquín Piñeros Corpas.\n\nThe city's main church has been rebuilt numerous times, and for a variety of reasons. The first church was built in June 1658 by Father Andrés Méndez de Valdivieso. The second church was built by Father Poveda in 1707, and lasted until 1865. The third church was built soon after by Father Antonio Martínez. It was made of bricks, but collapsed on September 19, 1908. The fourth church was begun in its place on June 6, 1909, and was consecrated August 15, 1926, soon after its completion. It was consecrated by the local Archbishop, Ismael Perdomo. However, there were other churches throughout the city's existence, including the Nuestra Señora de Belén (English: Our Lady of Bethlehem), consecrated on August 16, 1786.\n\nDuring World War 2, a hotel in the city was used as an internment camp for citizens of Axis power countries.\n\nThe urban territory is between 550 m and 3,050 m above sea level, with an average height . Its average temperature is .\n\nThe relative humidity of the municipality and other climatic subzones of the municipality, is 85%. With monthly highs of 93% and lows of 74%.\n\nThe average wind speed at 7:00 am is 1.0 m/s, 13:00 2.7 m/s. At 19:00 it is 1.1 m/s, with a monthly maximum of 10.4 m/s; at 13:00 and monthly minimum O m/s (calm) at 19:00.\n\nThe municipality has a precipitation of over 1,250 mm. The rainy months: March, April, May, October, November, December. The dry months: January, February, June, July, August, September.\nTotal annual precipitation measurement at five stations is 1389.4 mm. Aridity index of 47.79 correspond to Semi-arid. Average 1560 sunshine hours/per year (130 per month). Average evaporation 645.3 mm/sec\n\nThe water supply is largely from local Emserfusa.\n\nThe municipality has characterized due to its demographic explosion, factors that incide are climate and location near the capital Bogota.\n\nAccording of 2005 census development by Departamento Nacional de Estadistica the population is 107,259 inhabitants. 85,008 in the urban town and 22,251 in the rural zone. The proportion of men is 48.1% and the women is 51.9%. Until 2011 its population is growing to annual rate of 2.4%, this indicator is higher than the departamental average of 1.9%.\n\nFusagasuga has been mainly Christian.\n\nThe City Council consists of 17 members. The actual Mayor is Luis Cifuentes. Fusagasugá has tended to be a stronghold of the Liberal Party, which has controlled the city's mayoralty since 1986.\n\nFusagasugá is administratively divided into 6 communes and 5 townships (countryside or rural division), which are further subdivided in wards (barrios) and municipal rural settlement (rural district or \"vereda\"). The total area spreads , are urban zone and are rural zone. There is a difference and crossing of boundaries between the different jurisdictions of the neighborhoods, the \"veredas\" and the Communal Councils.\n\nThe urban zone has 26 wards (barrios) which have not yet been delimited. In these wards have been developed 226 urbanistic projects. The urban zone spreads . Centro Commune has , Norte , Oriental , Occidental , Sur Oriental and Sur Occidental .\n\n\nThe rural zone has divided on 6 districts, and 38 subdistricts. .\n\nIn 2007 the municipality ranked the tenth place on department according to its economy. The GDP estimated at 2007 is $544,984 million. The majority of the regional economy is made up of agriculture and construction services. Aside from these sectors, there has been rapid growth in the service industry because of the strengthening in the sectors of education, health, recreation, and tourism. Local government policies to support agrotechnology have fostered short-term, local development. The municipality has nowadays the third category.\n\nIn 2003 there were 97 schools, 68% are public and 32% private. 54 schools are in urban zone and 43 in rural zone. In the city works the Universidad de Cundinamarca, the School of Public Service ESAP, the Police School, ICSEF, the Universidad Santo Tomás and Universidad Antonio Nariño. Also works Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje SENA, and 15 non-formal or informal private educational establishments.\n\nDue to its warm climate, Fusagasugá attracts many tourists with many hotels, resorts, pool parks, and cabins. The Pan-American highway goes through Fusagasugá's territory. In order to travel to other Colombian cities in the south-west, such as Ibagué, Neiva, or Cali, it is necessary to pass through Fusagasugá when traveling from the north.\n\nFrom the highway, you can see greenhouses, plant and flower stores, handcrafted rustic furniture stores, and local restaurants.\n\nFusagasugá was once home to the soccer team Expreso Rojo, which plays in the Colombian second division. Cycling is a renowned sport in the Fusagasugá. Remarkable growth in roller-skating has happened within the past few decades, mainly among children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850147", "title": "Arche", "text": "Arche\n\nArche (; ) is a Greek word with primary senses \"beginning\", \"origin\" or \"source of action\" (: from the beginning, οr : the original argument), and later \"first principle\" or \"element\". By extension, it may mean \"first place, power\", \"method of government\", \"empire, realm\", \"authorities\" (in plural: ), \"command\". The first principle or element corresponds to the \"ultimate underlying substance\" and \"ultimate undemonstrable principle\". In the philosophical language of the archaic period (8th to 6th century BC), \"arche\" (or \"archai\") designates the source, origin or root of things that exist. In ancient Greek philosophy, Aristotle foregrounded the meaning of \"arche\" as the element or principle of a thing, which although undemonstrable and intangible in itself, provides the conditions of the possibility of that thing.\n\nIn the mythical Greek cosmogony of Hesiod (8th to 7th century BC), the origin of the world is Chaos, considered as a divine primordial condition, from which everything else appeared. In the creation \"chaos\" is a gaping-void, but later the word is used to describe the space between the earth and the sky, after their separation. \"Chaos\" may mean infinite space, or a formless matter which can be differentiated. The notion of temporal infinity was familiar to the Greek mind from remote antiquity in the religious conception of immortality. The conception of the \"divine\" as an origin influenced the first Greek philosophers.\nIn the Orphic cosmogony, the unaging Chronos produced Aether and Chaos and made in divine Aether a silvery egg, from which everything else appeared.\n\nIn the mythological cosmogonies of the Near East, the universe is formless and empty and the only existing thing prior to creation was the water abyss. In the Babylonian creation story, Enuma Elish, the primordial world is described as a \"watery chaos\" from which everything else appeared. Something similar is described in Book of Genesis where the spirit of God is moving upon the dark face of the waters.\n\nIn the Hindu cosmology, which is similar to the Vedic cosmology, in the beginning there was nothing in the Universe but darkness. The self-manifested being created the primordial waters and established his seed into it. This turned into a golden egg (Hiranyagarbha) from which everything else appeared.\n\nThe heritage of Greek mythology already embodied the desire to articulate reality as a whole and this universalizing impulse was fundamental for the first projects of speculative theorizing. It appears that the order of \"being\" was first imaginatively visualized before it was abstractly thought.\nIn the ancient Greek philosophy, \"arche\" is the element and the first principle of existing things. This is considered as a permanent substance or nature (physis) either one or more which is conserved in the generation of rest of it. From this all things first come to be and into this they are resolved in a final state. This source of entity is always preserved. (Aristotle-Metaph.A, 983, b6ff). Anaximander was the first philosopher that used \"arche\" for that which writers from Aristotle onwards called \"the substratum\" (Simplicius Phys. 150, 22). The Greek philosophers ascribed to \"arche\" divine attributes. It is the divine horizon of substance that encompasses and values all things.\n\nThales of Miletus (7th to 6th century BC), the father of philosophy, claimed that the first principle of all things is water, and considered it as a substance that contains in it motion and change. His theory was supported by the observation of moisture throughout the world and coincided with his theory that the earth floated on water. His ideas were influenced by the Near-Eastern mythological cosmogony and probably by the Homeric statement that the surrounding Oceanus (ocean) is the source of all springs and rivers.\n\nThales' theory was refuted by his successor and esteemed pupil, Anaximander. Anaximander noted that water could not be the arche, because it could not give rise to its opposite, fire. Anaximander claimed that none of the elements (earth, fire, air, water) could be arche for the same reason. Instead, he proposed the existence of the apeiron, an indefinite substance from which all things are born and to which all things will return. \"Apeiron\" (endless or boundless) is something completely indefinite and Anaximander was probably influenced by the original \"chaos\" of Hesiod (yawning abyss). He probably intended it to mean primarily \"indefinite in kind\" but assumed it also to be \"of unlimited extent and duration\". The notion of temporal infinity was familiar to the Greek mind from remote antiquity in the religious conception of immortality and Anaximander's description was in terms appropriate to this conception. This \"arche\" is called \"eternal and ageless\". (Hippolitus I,6,I;DK B2)\n\nAnaximenes, Anaximander's pupil, advanced yet another theory. He returns to the elemental theory, but this time posits air, rather than water, as the arche and ascribes to it divine attributes. He was the first recorded philosopher who provided a theory of change and supported it with observation. Using two contrary processes of rarefaction and condensation (thinning or thickening), he explains how air is part of a series of changes. Rarefied air becomes fire, condensed it becomes first wind, then cloud, water, earth, and stone in order. The \"arche\" is technically what underlies all of reality/appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850157", "title": "Urbanus", "text": "Urbanus\n\nUrbain Servranckx (born 7 June 1949), better known as Urbanus, is a Belgian comedian, actor, singer and comic book writer. Although he is most famous as comedian, some of his songs became hits, such as \"Bakske vol met stro\" (1979), \"Madammen met een bontjas\" (1980) and \"Hittentit\" (1982). In Flanders and the Netherlands Urbanus is one of the most popular and famous entertainers of all time. \n\nUrbanus, artist's name of Urbain Joseph Servranckx (Dilbeek, 7 June 1949) is a Belgian comedian, singer, guitarist, author of comic books and actor. Originally he used the artist name: Urbanus van Anus. Anus was the name of his former backing group. In 1973 he began performing cabaret and comedy. He became popular in Flanders and managed to duplicate his success in the Netherlands, building a steady career since. He has appeared in TV shows, some which he wrote himself. Urbanus released several musical singles, some of which entered the hit parade. His Christmas song \"Bakske Vol Met Stro\" (1979) was controversial for lampooning the biblical story of the birth of Jesus, but also became his signature song and best-selling record for the very same reasons. Urbanus considers himself an atheist, although he wed in the Roman Catholic Church and had his children baptized.\n\nUrbanus starred in three films: \"Hector\" (1987), \"Koko Flanel\" (1990) and \"Seventh Heaven (1993)\". The two first films were the leaders in the Flemish box offices for many years. His first movie, \"Hector\", directed by Stijn Coninx, won the 1988 international comedy film festival in Chamrousse, France. He also was named best actor by Radio France and Dauphiné Libéré. \"Seventh Heaven\" was a box office bomb. In Flanders and the Netherlands Urbanus is well-known and very popular since 1974. Although he's most famous as comedian, some of his songs became hits, such as \"Bakske vol met stro\" (1979), \"Madammen met een bontjas\" (1980) and \"Hittentit\" (1982).Urbanus lend his voice to the Flemish versions of the Pixar movies, \"Cars\" and \"Cars 2\", where he was the voice of the character Mater.\n\nUrbanus is script writer of a comics series about a childlike version of himself, \"Urbanus\", which debuted in 1982. The series is drawn by Willy Linthout and from the third story on, Urbanus started providing the scenarios.The comic strip managed to become the longest-running series in the celebrity-inspired genre and new albums are still published to this day.The comics also sell well in the Netherlands.\n\nUrbanus also writes the gags for the satirical comic \"De Geverniste Vernepelingskes\" (1998), which pokes fun at several Flemish celebrities. It was first drawn by Jan Bosschaert, then Dirk Stallaert and finally Steven Dupré. Urbanus also writes gags for the children's comics \"Plankgas en Plastronneke\" (2004–2008) and \"Mieleke Melleke Mol\" (since 2003), both drawn by Dirk Stallaert.\n\nUrbanus has also drawn some gag comics himself. He also illustrated many of his own album covers.\n\nUrbanus produced and appeared in several movies:\n\nUrbanus did voices for the following movies:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850163", "title": "Hauraki Regiment", "text": "Hauraki Regiment\n\nThe Hauraki Regiment is a Territorial Force unit of the New Zealand Army. The regiment is unique among the TF units in that it has never been amalgamated, and thus can trace its history directly back to its formation in 1898. The regiment was formed as the 2nd (Hauraki) Battalion, Auckland Rifle Volunteers. Men of the Hauraki Regiment served during the First World War with the various Auckland Regiments, and with the 18th, 21st, 24th and 29th Battalions of the NZEF in the Second World War.\n\nWith the reorganisation of the army in 1964, the regiment become a TF battalion of the Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment. This was until the later reorganisation of 1999, which saw the TF battalions split from the RNZIR to become multi-function battalion groups. The Hauraki Regiment became the 6th Hauraki Battalion Group, with the following unit types:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850173", "title": "Ammonitida", "text": "Ammonitida\n\nAmmonitida is an order of more highly evolved ammonoid cephalopods that lived from the Jurassic through Cretaceous time periods, commonly with intricate ammonitic sutures.\n\nAmmonitida is divided into four suborders, the Phylloceratina, Lytoceratina, Ancyloceratina, and Ammonitina.\n\nThe Phylloceratina is the ancestral stock, derived from the Ceratitida near the end of the Triassic. The Phylloceratina gave rise to the Lytoceratina near the beginning of the Jurassic which in turn gave rise to the highly specialized Ancyloceratina near the end of the Jurassic. Both the Phylloceratina and Lytoceratina gave rise to various stocks combined in the Ammonitina.\n\nThese four suborders are further divided into different stocks, comprising various families combined into superfamilies. Some like the Hildoceratoidea and Stephanoceratoidea are restricted to the Jurassic. Others like the Hoplitoidea and Acanthoceratoidea are known only from the Cretaceous. Still others like the Perisphinctoidea are found in both.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850174", "title": "Philosophical language", "text": "Philosophical language\n\nA philosophical language is any constructed language that is constructed from first principles or certain ideologies. It is considered a type of engineered language. Philosophical languages were popular in Early Modern times, partly motivated by the goal of recovering the lost Adamic or Divine language. The term ideal language is sometimes used near-synonymously, though more modern philosophical languages such as Toki Pona are less likely to involve such an exalted claim of perfection. It may be known as a language of pure ideology. The axioms and grammars of the languages together differ from commonly spoken languages today. \n\nIn most older philosophical languages, and some newer ones, words are constructed from a limited set of morphemes that are treated as \"elemental\" or fundamental. \"Philosophical language\" is sometimes used synonymously with \"taxonomic language\", though more recently there have been several conlangs constructed on philosophical principles which are not taxonomic. Vocabularies of oligosynthetic languages are made of compound words, which are coined from a small (theoretically minimal) set of morphemes; languages like Toki Pona similarly use a limited set of root words but produce phrases which remain series of distinct words. \n\nToki Pona is based on minimalistic simplicity, incorporating elements of Taoism. Láadan is designed to lexicalize and grammaticalize the concepts and distinctions important to women, based on muted group theory. \n\nA priori languages are constructed languages where the vocabulary is invented directly, rather than being derived from other existing languages (as with Esperanto or Ido). Philosophical languages are almost all a priori languages, but most \"a priori\" languages are not philosophical languages. For example, Quenya, Sindarin, and Klingon are all \"a priori\" but not philosophical languages: they are meant to seem like natural languages, even though they have no genetic relation to any natural languages.\n\nWork on philosophical languages was pioneered by Francis Lodwick (\"A Common Writing\", 1647; \"The Groundwork or Foundation laid (or So Intended) for the Framing of a New Perfect Language and a Universal Common Writing\", 1652), Sir Thomas Urquhart (\"Logopandecteision\", 1652), George Dalgarno (\"Ars signorum\", 1661), and John Wilkins (\"An Essay towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language\", 1668). Those were systems of hierarchical classification that were intended to result in both spoken and written expression. In 1855, English writer George Edmonds modified Wilkins' system, leaving its taxonomy intact, but changing the grammar, orthography and pronunciation of the language in an effort to make it easier to speak and to read.\n\nGottfried Leibniz created \"lingua generalis\" (or \"lingua universalis\") in 1678, aiming to create a lexicon of characters upon which the user might perform calculations that would yield true propositions automatically; as a side effect he developed binary calculus.\n\nThese projects aimed not only to reduce or model grammar, but also to arrange all human knowledge into \"characters\" or hierarchies. This idea ultimately led to the \"Encyclopédie\", in the Age of Enlightenment. Under the entry \"Charactère\", D'Alembert critically reviewed the projects of philosophical languages of the preceding century. \n\nAfter the \"Encyclopédie\", projects for \"a priori\" languages moved more and more to the fringe. Individual authors, typically unaware of the history of the idea, continued to propose taxonomic philosophical languages until the early 20th century (for example, Ro). More recent philosophical languages have usually moved away from taxonomic schemata, such as 21st century Ithkuil by John Quijada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850178", "title": "Thea Gregory", "text": "Thea Gregory\n\nThea Gregory (née Ida Reddish 1926) is an English actress.\n\nShe appeared in theatre under her real name, and then in nine British films between 1950 and 1956, including \"The Weak and the Wicked\" (1954) with her husband, John Gregson. She and Gregson were married in Hampstead, London in 1947 and had three daughters and three sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850179", "title": "Honda Stream", "text": "Honda Stream\n\nThe Honda Stream is a compact MPV manufactured by the Japanese automaker Honda since October 2000. \n\nThe second generation model was officially presented on 13 July 2006.\n\nAlthough it was partially exported in LHD markets, especially in Europe, Honda Stream is more successful in Japan and Singapore. It was never available in North America.\n\nThe first generation Honda Stream (Body codes: RN1/2/3/4/5) went on sale in Japan on 27 October 2000. It was largely based on the Civic, with the same flat chassis but added 100 mm in length to accommodate the third row of seats. \nIn advertising and promotional brochures Honda describes it as a \"sporty 7-seater\".\n\nThe first generation Honda Stream was available with a 1.7L D17 engine and a 2.0L K20A, equipped with a 4-speed automatic transmission and a 5-speed automatic transmission with sequential mode respectively. For some export markets, a manual version was also offered. \n\nIn December 2003, Honda Stream Absolute debuted with DI 2.0 L K20B engines with improved fuel efficiency equipped with CVT. The K20B was first ultra-lean petrol engine using direct injection technology which was only offered in Japan. No other Honda vehicles were equipped direct injection technology until the Earth Dream engines were produced in 2011 be marketed in the United States. \n\nThe first generation Honda Stream received a facelift in September 2003. \n\nThe second generation Honda Stream (body codes: RN6/7/8/9) is offered internationally in two specification levels. The lower-end spec features the R18A 1.8 liter SOHC i-VTEC (2-stage) engine with a 5-speed automatic gearbox (and a 5-speed manual transmission in some countries). The higher-end spec features the R20A 2.0 liter SOHC i-VTEC engine with variable length intake manifold, a CVT transmission and optional 7 speeds paddle shift function for FWD models; or a 5-speed automatic transmission that comes with AWD models. The RSZ model also comes with firmer damping shock absorbers with anti-roll/sway bar for the rear setup. \n\nFrom April 2012, only the RSZ model is available.\n\nHonda stopped production of the Honda Stream in 2014 for the Japanese and Singaporean markets. It was still on sale in Malaysia until it was discontinued in that country in 2015. In Japan and Singapore however, it was replaced by the Honda Jade.\n\nThe Honda Stream was launched in November 2007, powered by a 1.8 L engine producing at 6,300 rpm and 174 Nm of torque at 4,300 rpm and is mated to a 5-speed automatic gearbox, with fourth and fifth being overdrive gears for better highway fuel economy. In February 2009, Honda launched the RSZ variant joining the normal Stream.\n\nIn Singapore, the Honda Stream is available through the authorised distributor and parallel import. The parallel import Stream was launched slightly earlier than from the authorised distributor. It was available in the standard 1.8 model and also the higher spec RSZ model. Only 1 RST model was ever registered back in 2010.\n\nIn some countries, this variant of the Stream has only 2 rows of seats (6 seats). For the RST model, a combination of the removal of the third row seat (in some countries) and adoption of light weight 17\" alloy wheels reduces weight and improves handling and acceleration; the handling is further enhanced by suspension tuning and a tailgate spoiler is also added.\n\nA ZS model available only in FWD was added in September 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850180", "title": "Domodedovo Airlines", "text": "Domodedovo Airlines\n\nJSC \"Domodedovo Airlines\" ( \"OAO Aviakompaniya Domodedovskiye Avialinii\") was an airline with its head office on the grounds of Domodedovo International Airport in Domodedovsky District, Moscow Oblast, Russia. It operated scheduled flights within Russia and the CIS, with a focus on flights to the Russian Far East. The airline also operated scheduled and ad hoc charter flights to P. R. China, Europe, Thailand, Maldives, Malaysia and Singapore.\n\nDomodedovo United Air Detachment ( \"Domodedovskogo Obyedinennogo Aviaotryada\"), a division of Aeroflot Soviet Airlines, was established in March 1964, when Flight Units 206, 211 and 202 were transferred to Sheremetyevo Airport from Vnukovo Airport. The division was set up to operate long-haul services within the USSR, particularly to the Russian Far East and the Central Asian republics. All flights of the airline were operated as part of Aeroflot services.\n\nOn 25 March 1964 the airline operated its first revenue service with a Tupolev Tu-114 on a flight from Domodedovo Airport to Khabarovsk in the Russian Far East. In 1978, with an Ilyushin Il-62, the airline started non-stop operations on the longest domestic service in the world, Moscow to Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, a distance of some 6,800 km. In 1979 the airline was renamed to Domodedovo Civil Aviation Production Association (Domodedovo CAPA) ( \"Domodedovskoe Proizvodstvennoye Obyedineniye Grazhdanskoy (DPO GA)\").\n\nDomodedovo CAPA was officially separated from Aeroflot on 20 January 1993, when it was awarded with operator licence №4 by the State Civil Aviation Service. In January 1998, as a result of the restructuring of Domodedovo CAPA in which the airport and airline were separated, Domodedovo Airlines was established as Domodedovo Airlines, JSC. Its fleet then included Ilyushin Il-18 turboprop and Ilyushin Il-62 turbofan jet airliners.\n\nIt was partially privatised in 2001, with the Ministry of Property retaining a controlling stake. In October 2004 KrasAir and Domodedovo set up a joint management company, Air Bridge. While retaining separate legal identities the airlines planned to integrate their networks and services, which were largely complementary. The alliance was renamed AiRUnion in 2005 . Domodedovo Airlines was owned by State holding (50.4 per cent) and ATON (49.6 per cent) and had 1,489 employees at March 2007.\n\nIt had suspended operations at the end of September 2008 due to the AiRUnion collapse.\n\nThe Domodedovo Airlines fleet included the following aircraft (as of March 2007): \n\nIn addition to the fleet listed above, Domodedovo Airlines also utilised many aircraft from the KrasAir fleet for its scheduled services, which included the Boeing 737, the Tupolev Tu-204, the Tupolev Tu-214 and the Boeing 767-200. \n\n"}
{"id": "1850190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850190", "title": "Notemaker", "text": "Notemaker\n\nNotemakers are a type of software tool first produced for the Commodore 64. They are designed to allow an author to write a multiple-page note that is saved as a compact self-executing program. When the program is executed, the note displays itself, usually with music and other visual effects, allowing pagination.\n\nTour de Future achieved fame by developing the first \"viral\" notemaker: the note reader incorporated a writer, so that new notes could be written, saved and distributed, and so on. Typically, these notes would be release notes accompanying new software, or personal or public messages to other friends within the scene. \n\nThe group, and its successor Tera, produced several further notemakers, as a strategy to increase its visibility across the scene. The concept caught on, and many notemakers were soon developed.\n\nNotemakers were later popular on the Apple Macintosh series of computers as DocViewer and its competing products.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850191", "title": "Diksha", "text": "Diksha\n\nDiksha (Sanskrit: दीक्ष in Devanagari, ') also spelled deeksha or deeksa\"' in common usage, translated as a \"preparation or consecration for a religious ceremony\", is giving of a mantra or an initiation by the guru (in Guru–shishya tradition) of Indian religions such as Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. Diksa is given in a one-to-one ceremony, and typically includes the taking on of a serious spiritual discipline. The word is derived from the Sanskrit root \"dā\" (\"to give\") plus \"kṣi\" (\"to destroy\") or alternately from the verb root \"dīkṣ\" (\"to consecrate\"). When the mind of the guru and the disciple become one, then we say that the disciple has been initiated by the guru.\nDiksa can be of various types, through the teacher's sight, touch, or word, with the purpose of purifying the disciple or student. Initiation by touch is called \"sparśa dīkṣā\". The bestowing of divine grace through diksa is sometimes called \"śaktipāt\".\n\nVishnu Yamala (tantra) says:\n\"The process that bestows divyam jnanam (transcendental, spiritual knowledge) and destroys sin (pāpa), the seed of sin and ignorance, is called diksha by the spiritual persons who have seen the Truth (desikais tattva-kovidaih).\"\n\nDifferent traditions and sects treat diksa in various ways. Tantra mentions five types of initiation or \"diksa\": initiation by a ritual or \"samaya-diksa\"; \"sparsa-diksa\" is an initiation by touch and is done without a ritual; \"vag-diksa\" is done by word or mantra; \"sambhavi-diksa\" is arising from perception of external appearance of the guru; \"mano-diksa\" is when initiation is performed in the mind. For ISKCON members first diksa, or \"harinama-diksa\" initiation, is performed as part of a fire sacrifice where grains, fruit, and ghee are placed on an open fire of the sacrifice. In the tradition of Lahiri Mahasaya, initiation into Kriya Yoga is given as diksa. The Bengali saint Anandamayi Ma often gave \"sparśa dīkṣā\" (divine touch) or \"drik\" diksa (through her look), in which she would bestow \"śaktipāt\" (divine grace).\n\nAnother type of diksa, into a monastic order, involves a vow of celibacy, renunciation of all personal possessions and of all worldly duties, including family ties. Diksha has the same meaning in Jainism. Diksha is also called \"Charitra\" or \"Mahanibhiskraman\" in Jainism.\nInitiation in Hinduism involves performing one of several rituals depending on the person being initiated and the Hindu group involved.\n\nVarious tantric works enumerate different types of disksha rituals: \n\nISKCON, for example, commonly advise those that want to be initiated into the movement to begin by repeatedly chanting the name of Krishna. This chanting is a sort of unofficial induction. The official initiation as a disciple occurs during an organized ceremony. Additionally, followers are required to wear a string of beads, or kanthi, around their neck.\n\nTranscendental Meditation (TM) began initiation under the guidance of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in the late 1950s. New members were initiated through a “devotional ritual (puja) whose focus was Brahmananda Saraswati and the Shankarcharya lineage. Initiates were given a specially suited mantra, and taught how to practice meditation.”\n\nBAPS Swaminarayan Sanstha initiates new members via a ritual known as vartman. This ritual involves taking water in the right palm and repeating a mantra that is spoken by the ritual initiator, often a renunciate. After the mantra is repeated, the water is poured away, signifying the acceptance of a lifestyle as established by the movement. A kanthi is adorned and vows are taken. Vows for new initiates include abstaining from meat, alcohol, adultery, stealing, and harmful addictive substances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850193", "title": "Roman Danylovich", "text": "Roman Danylovich\n\nRoman Danylovich (c. 1230 – c. 1261), Prince of Black Ruthenia (Navahradak) 1254–1258, Prince of Slonim?.\n\nHe was born as a younger son of Danylo of Halych, a powerful prince of lands east from Poland and later king of those regions, which was most of the times called Volhynia or Ruthenia (roughly, near modern Belarus and Ukraine). His mother was Anna Mstislavna of Novgorod, daughter of Mstislav the Bold (died before 1252).\n\nIn 1252 he was married to Gertrude, Duchess of Austria as her third husband. He, in Western Europe, participated in her attempts to get the power in her duchy, under rivaling claimants. However, already next year they ended up in divorce and Roman returned to Ruthenia where he was 1254-58 Prince of Navahradak.\n\nRoman was married twice:\n\nHe had the following issue:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850194", "title": "Sutagao people", "text": "Sutagao people\n\nThe Sutagao are the Chibcha-speaking indigenous people from the region of Fusagasugá, Bogotá savanna, Cundinamarca, Colombia. Knowledge about the Sutagao has been provided by scholar Lucas Fernández de Piedrahita.\n\nThe name Sutagao is derived from the Chibcha words \"Su(t)á\"; \"Sun\" and \"gao\"; \"son\"; \"Sons of the Sun\".\n\nThe Sutagao was a relatively small indigenous group that lived between the Sumapaz Páramo and the Pasca River.\n\nBefore the Spanish conquest, the Sutagao were in conflict with the Muisca to the northeast. \"Zipa\" Saguamanchica conquered the Sutagao around 1470 when the \"cacique\" of the Sutagao lost the Battle of Pasca. Conquistador Hernán Pérez de Quesada, brother of Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada submitted the Sutagao to the new rule of the New Kingdom of Granada.\n\nThe Sutagao inhabited the region until a new town was founded by Bernardino Albornoz between 5 and 13 February in 1592. During the visit of Miguel de Ibarra there were 759 indigenous people residing in Fusagasugá.<br>When Aróstequi arrived in February 1760, the indigenous population had dwindled to 85, and there were 644 new settlers divided among 109 families.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850197", "title": "Ferret armoured car", "text": "Ferret armoured car\n\nThe Ferret armoured car, also commonly called the Ferret scout car, is a British armoured fighting vehicle designed and built for reconnaissance purposes. The Ferret was produced between 1952 and 1971 by the UK company Daimler. It was widely adopted by regiments in the British Army, as well as the RAF Regiment and Commonwealth countries throughout the period.\n\nThe Ferret was developed in 1949 as a result of a British Army requirement issued in 1947. 'Light reconnaissance cars' existed during the Second World War, notably the Daimler Reconnaissance Scout Car.\n\nGiven its experience with the successful \"Dingo\" (6,626 produced and one of two British AFVs produced throughout WWII) Daimler was awarded a development contract in October 1948, and in June 1950 the first prototype of the Car, Scout, 4x4, Liaison (Ferret) Mark 1 was delivered.\n\nGiven the designation FV 701(C) it was one of several versions but the one that most closely resembled the original Daimler scout cars, and represented the basic model Ferret. This shared many similar design features with the Dingo, notably the H form drive train in which a central differential eliminates loss of traction due to wheel-slip, and parallel drive shafts considerably reduced the height of the vehicle (roughly equivalent to that of a tracked AFV), considerably reducing the vehicle's visual signature over conventional armoured car designs.\n\nLike the Daimler scout car, the Ferret suspension consisted of pairs of transverse links and single coil springs, the wheels driven by Tracta constant-velocity joints, but the Ferret benefited from epicyclic reduction gears that reduced transmission torque loads, essential given the more powerful six cylinder 4.26 litre water-cooled Rolls Royce B.60 petrol engine. Connected by a fluid coupling to a pre-selector five speed epicyclic gearbox, all gears being available in reverse, in its original form the Ferret this installation produced 116 bhp at 3,300 rpm and 129 bhp at 3,750 in its final form.\n\nThis improved power-to-weight ratio, longer wheelbase ( as compared with the Dingo's ) and the fitting of larger 9.00 x 16 run flat tyres both increased speed and mobility over broken ground.\n\nWhen compared with the Daimler Dingo and Canadian Ford Lynx, the Ferret featured a larger fighting compartment, directly mounted to the hull (a feature that made the Ferret much noisier than Dingo, which lacked a fully monocoque body).\n\nConstructed of steel plate protecting the crew from shell splinters at most angles except directly overhead, as the basic vehicle was open-topped and unarmed, with the exception of six forward-firing grenade launchers fitted to the hull over the front wheels (normally carrying smoke grenades), a feature found on all subsequent marks and models.\n\nHowever, the Ferret normally carried a .303\" Bren light machine gun or a pintle-mounted .30\" Browning light machine gun for defensive purposes, in addition to the crew's personal weapons.\n\nFerret Mark 2\n\nIn contrast to the lightly armed and protected Mark 1, the Mark 2 was designed from the outset to mount a .30\" Browning in a one-man fully traversable turret, at the cost of one crew member. While this offered better crew protection and protected the otherwise dangerously exposed gunner, the turret raised the height of the vehicle and thus made it more conspicuous; in consequence, the choice of fit depended on the nature of the mission.\n\nIn general terms, the most successful wheeled armoured vehicles have been purpose-designed and the lightest, commensurate with their mission, being at the least disadvantage in relation to tracked vehicles in terms of ground pressure, which largely governs off-road performance.\n\nSmall and fast enough to be useful in an urban environment, but sufficiently strong and agile to negotiate rugged terrain off-road, the Ferret, while no longer in service in the British Army, is still operated by several Commonwealth countries and has proven popular with private collectors due to the compact size and affordable price, e.g. around $20,000 to $30,000 in the United States, $40,000 to $60,000 in Australia and New Zealand and around $9,000 in the Czech Republic.\n\nMark 1 and Mark 2 Ferrets were used by Australian Military forces from 1953 to 1970, at which time Australian military forces disposed of them at public auction.\n\nAccording to the US Military, 20 national armies were operating the Ferret in 1996.\n\nA total of 4,409 Ferrets, including 16 sub-models under various Mark numbers, were manufactured between 1952 and 1962, when production ceased. It is possible to upgrade the engine using the more powerful FB60 version from the Austin Princess 4-Litre-R; this upgrade providing a 55bhp gain over the standard B60 engine.\n\n\n\nThere are several Marks of Ferret, including those with varying equipment, turret or no turret and armed with Swingfire anti-tank missiles. Including all the marks and experimental variants, there have probably been over 60 different vehicles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850199", "title": "Russian Sky Airlines", "text": "Russian Sky Airlines\n\nRussian Sky Airlines was an airline with its head office on the grounds of Domodedovo International Airport in Moscow, Russia. It operate scheduled and charter cargo services to Europe, the Middle East and the Far East. It also operate passenger services and VIP transport. Its main base was Domodedovo International Airport. In late 2014 the airline announced it was filing for bankruptcy, and its license was revoked by Russian aviation authorities on 24.12.2014.\n\nThe airline was established on November 27, 1995 as East Line Air, that later on February 8, 1996 was granted Certificate No 61 by the civil aviation authorities of Russia. This Certificate had entitled the airline to operate all types of domestic civil aircraft. From January 3, 1996, East Line Air became a member of IATA. In 1997 the airline was renamed East Line Airlines, and a new Operator’s Certificate, retaining the same number, was approved on 4 September 1997, and subsequently renewed in compliance with the Federal Aviation Authorities regulations. East Line Airlines was a part of East Line group, which owns Domodedovo airport. They also were one of the leading cargo carriers in Russia.\n\nIn May 2004 a change of shareholders of East Line Airlines took place. The Extraordinary Meeting of Shareholders of East Line Airlines, held on June 7, 2004, resolved to delegate the authority of a sole executive body to a Managing Organization — Russian Sky Aviation Group, and on October 21, 2004 East Line Airlines was renamed Russian Sky Airlines without any change of the legal entity.\n\nIn 2005 the airline was acquired by VIM Airlines.\n\nAs of August 2006, the Russian Sky Airlines fleet included:\n\n\nAs of January 2005 Russian Sky Airlines operated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850203", "title": "Balkh River", "text": "Balkh River\n\nThe Balkh River (; ) or Balkhab, also known in its upper reaches as the Band-e Amir River, is a river in northern Afghanistan.\n\nThe river rises in the Band-e Amir lakes in Bamyan Province in the Hindu Kush. In its upper reaches the river is known as the \"Band-e Amir River\" (\"Rud-e Band-e Amir\"). The river flows west, then north, and terminates in irrigation canals in the area of the cities of Balkh and Mazar-e Sharif or in the desert. In times of exceptional flood the river drains into the lowlands of Turkmenistan. In ancient times the river terminated in a delta at the Amu Darya, but has not reached that river since irrigation canals were developed centuries ago.\n"}
{"id": "1850204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850204", "title": "Jan Tarło (d. 1550)", "text": "Jan Tarło (d. 1550)\n\nJan Tarło (died 1550) was a Polish nobleman (\"szlachcic\").\n\nJan was Krajczy of the Crown since 1522, Podczaszy of the Crown since 1546, Cześnik of the Crown since 1550 and starost of Pilzno.\n"}
{"id": "1850205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850205", "title": "Andreas Mihavecz", "text": "Andreas Mihavecz\n\nAndreas Mihavecz is an Austrian from Bregenz who holds the record of surviving the longest without any food or liquids. His ordeal is documented in the \"Guinness World Records\".\n\nOn 1 April 1979, the then 18-year-old bricklayer's apprentice was mistakenly put into custody in a holding cell for being a passenger in a crashed car and completely forgotten about by the three policemen responsible for him. Each of them thought that the two others had already freed Mihavecz. They also ignored the pleas of his worried mother, who was concerned for what might have happened to her son.\n\nAs his cell lay in the basement, nobody could hear his screams. He eventually lost of weight. 18 days later on 19 April, an officer who had unrelated business in the basement opened his cell after noticing the stench that was emanating from it. Mihavecz needed several weeks to regain his health.\n\nIn the criminal trial that followed, the three policemen accused each other. In the end, they were fined an amount equivalent to 2000 EUR as there was no evidence of \"criminal\" neglect or who was the main culprit. Two years later however, a civil court awarded Mihavecz 250,000 Austrian schillings (~19,000 EUR) in compensation.\n\nMihavecz's case was later erroneously included in the first edition of a German book on urban legends, as the updated form of a medieval German folk tale of the forgotten peasant in the debtors' prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850216", "title": "Fermat's theorem on sums of two squares", "text": "Fermat's theorem on sums of two squares\n\nIn additive number theory, Fermat's theorem on sums of two squares states that an odd prime \"p\" can be expressed as:\n\nformula_1\n\nwith \"x\" and \"y\" integers, if and only if\n\nThe prime numbers for which this is true are called Pythagorean primes.\nFor example, the primes 5, 13, 17, 29, 37 and 41 are all congruent to 1 modulo 4, and they can be expressed as sums of two squares in the following ways:\n\nOn the other hand, the primes 3, 7, 11, 19, 23 and 31 are all congruent to 3 modulo 4, and none of them can be expressed as the sum of two squares. This is the easier part of the theorem, and follows immediately from the observation that all squares are congruent to 0 or 1 modulo 4.\n\nAlbert Girard was the first to make the observation, describing all positive integral numbers (not necessarily primes) expressible as the sum of two squares of positive integers; this was published in 1625. The statement that every prime \"p\" of the form \"4n+1\" is the sum of two squares is sometimes called \"Girard's theorem\". For his part, Fermat wrote an elaborate version of the statement (in which he also gave the number of possible expressions of the powers of \"p\" as a sum of two squares) in a letter to Marin Mersenne dated December 25, 1640: for this reason this version of the theorem is sometimes called \"Fermat's Christmas theorem.\" \n\nSince the Diophantus identity implies that the product of two integers each of which can be written as the sum of two squares is itself expressible as the sum of two squares, by applying Fermat's theorem to the prime factorization of any positive integer \"n\", we see that if all the prime factors of \"n\" congruent to 3 modulo 4 occur to an even exponent, then \"n\" is expressible as a sum of two squares. The converse also holds. This equivalence provides the characterization Girard guessed.\n\nFermat usually did not write down proofs of his claims, and he did not provide a proof of this statement. The first proof was found by Euler after much effort and is based on infinite descent. He announced it in two letters to Goldbach, on May 6, 1747 and on April 12, 1749; he published the detailed proof in two articles (between 1752 and 1755). Lagrange gave a proof in 1775 that was based on his study of quadratic forms. This proof was simplified by Gauss in his \"Disquisitiones Arithmeticae\" (art. 182). Dedekind gave at least two proofs based on the arithmetic of the Gaussian integers. There is an elegant proof using Minkowski's theorem about convex sets. Simplifying an earlier short proof due to Heath-Brown (who was inspired by Liouville's idea), Zagier presented a one-sentence proof of Fermat's assertion.\nAnd more recently Christopher gave a partition-theoretic proof.\n\nFermat announced two related results fourteen years later. In a letter to Blaise Pascal dated September 25, 1654 he announced the following two results for odd primes formula_4:\n\n\nHe also wrote:\n\nIn other words, if \"p, q\" are of the form 20\"k\" + 3 or 20\"k\" + 7, then \"pq\" = \"x\" + 5\"y\". Euler later extended this to the conjecture that\n\nBoth Fermat's assertion and Euler's conjecture were established by Lagrange.\n\nA generalization of Fermat's theorem, the sum of two squares theorem, characterizes the integers (not necessarily prime) that can be expressed as the sum of two squares. They are exactly the integers in which each prime that is congruent to 3 mod 4 appears with an even exponent in the prime factorization of the number.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850217", "title": "Belgian Third Division A", "text": "Belgian Third Division A\n\nThe Belgian Third Division A was one of the two leagues at the third level of the Belgian football league system, the other one being the Belgian Third Division B. This division existed from the 1952–53 to 2015–16 seasons and was played every year with 18 clubs from 2009. Prior to this, the third level in the Belgian football league system was called Promotion and was divided into four leagues of 16 clubs each and prior to the 1931–32 season, the Promotion was divided into three leagues. Due to restructuring, the Third Division was replaced by Belgian Second Amateur Division which plays as three leagues of 16 clubs each from the 2016–17 season.\n\n — R. ES Acrenoise won the Belgian Promotion play-off; admitted to replace defunct R.A.E.C. Mons<br>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850221", "title": "The Great Sasuke", "text": "The Great Sasuke\n\n, (born July 18, 1969), is a Japanese professional wrestler, promoter and politician, currently wrestling for Michinoku Pro Wrestling (MPW) under the ring name . Aside from professional wrestling, he is also a former Iwate Prefectural Assembly legislator. He has wrestled in Japan and in the United States in various professional wrestling promotions. He is said to have an incredible tolerance for pain, mainly in reference to the injuries he has had including a cracked skull on two occasions.\n\nAfter failing the entrance exams to New Japan Pro Wrestling, Murakawa joined Universal Lucha Libre and had his debut on March 1, 1990 against Monkey Magic Wakita. He later adopted the name Masa Michinoku, derived from his own given name and the alternate name for his Japanese home region of Tōhoku, Michinoku. He portrayed a Japanese folkloric gimmick who wore a cloak and a sandogasa hat in his ring entrance, which he traded for an white \"ōendan\" gakuran every time he wrestled abroad. His underling Taka Michinoku would receive a similar character.\n\nDuring a tour in Mexico for Universal Wrestling Association, Murakawa adopted the character of Ninja Sasuke, a ninja gimmick inspired by the legendary Sarutobi Sasuke. He started wearing a black bodysuit with a matching mask, and utilized a wrestling style set between lucha libre and martial arts. Upon returning to Japan after a second Mexico tour, he finally tweaked his name to The Great Sasuke, and adopted a red, black and white mask patterned after kumadori makeup, reminiscent of the one worn by fellow Japanese wrestler Mach Hayato.\n\nShortly after, Sasuke proclaimed he was going to found a professional wrestling promotion in Tohoku, initially thought as an ULL branch, and left the promotion with a large group of wrestlers. He would found Michinoku Pro Wrestling, the first Japanese independent promotion not to be based around the Tokyo area.\n\nMPW kicked off in March 1993, when Sasuke and the rest of babyface wrestlers entered an intense feud against the villainous Super Delfín and his Delfín Corps. This rivalry would last many years.\n\nIn 1994, New Japan Pro Wrestling celebrated the first \"Super J Cup\", a junior heavyweight tournament for wrestlers from all over the world. Sasuke was drafted and reached the finals after beating NJPW favourites Jushin Thunder Liger and El Samurai, but fell to Wild Pegasus at the end. Despite his loss, Sasuke represented Michinoku Pro excellently and allowed for it to receive national coverage, and he himself became one of the most popular junior wrestlers in Japan.\n\nThe same year, Sasuke competed in the similar NJPW \"Super Grade Jr. Heavyweight Tag League\", where he teamed up with Black Tiger. As with the previous, Sasuke and Tiger amassed a high number of wins and came to the finals, but were eliminated there by Wild Pegasus and Shinjiro Otani. Sasuke also participated in the first \"Fukumen World League\", hosted by Michinoku Pro Wrestling in 1995 and admitting only masked wrestlers. Sasuke was defeated in the final round by Dos Caras.\n\nIn April 1996, Sasuke returned to NJPW and defeated Liger for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship, which he defended five times at both NJPW and MPW. His reign, along with his next title win over NWA World Junior Heavyweight Champion Masayoshi Motegi and WWF Light Heavyweight and WWA World Junior Light Heavyweight double champion El Samurai, would lead to the creation of the J Crown title, with Sasuke winning it in the final of a tournament against Último Dragón on August. For two months, Sasuke was one of the most decorated wrestlers in history, until he lost all of it to Dragón in Wrestle Association R.\n\nIn February 1997, Sasuke and several of his MPW teammates made a pair of appearances for Extreme Championship Wrestling in United States. In July, he and Taka Michinoku also wrestled two matches for World Wrestling Federation, one of them at . It was apparent that Sasuke would sign up with WWF, but it was Michinoku who ended up being signed on his place for unknown reasons.\n\nUpon returning to Japan, Sasuke and Tiger Mask IV began feuding with two heel doppelgängers, Sasuke the Great and Masked Tiger (played respectively by Masao Orihara and Takeshi Ono), aside from usual villain Super Delfín. Around this time, however, Sasuke would take repeated hiatuses in order to have time to heal injuries, which led him to clash against other wrestlers, most particularly Delfín, who accused him of being unfit to lead the promotion. This dissension would end up switching their respective alignment, with Delfín joining the home army and turning into the promotion's ace while Sasuke turned heel for the first time on his career and became an egotistical overlord. He would even change his mask, replacing its red stripes for blue stripes, as well as his name, leaving it as just \"Sasuke\" written in all caps. Sasuke would create his personal villainous stable, Sasuke Group, by allying with resident heels and summoning Crazy Max (Shiima Nobunaga's punk faction) from Toryumon.\n\nThe battle between the Sasuke Group and the rest of Michinoku wrestlers would have the effect of fracturing the promotion, as Dick Togo and Super Delfin had their own feud about the latter's role in the babyface team. After Togo humiliated Delfín by forcing him to crawl between his legs and later caused a riot by abusing him further, Sasuke adopted the same approach against Delfín in their battles, which eventually led to his departure from MPW to form Osaka Pro Wrestling due to both kayfabe and real dissatisfaction with the angle. Sasuke continued his war on MPW until 1999, when he was forcefully turned face again after Jinsei Shinzaki \"exorcized the evil out of him.\" Now devoid of talent due to the absence of wrestlers who had left with Delfín and other ventures, MPW was left in ruins, a situation the now heroic Sasuke vowed to mend.\n\nIn 1999 he won the NWA World Middleweight Championship vacated by old rival Ultimo Dragon. Although the tournament was promoted by Ultimo's Toryumon Japan promotion, Sasuke took the title to his base at Michinoku and styled himself a \"traveling world champion\" in the style of NWA World Heavyweight Champions from the 1960-80s.\n\nIn 2001, Sasuke had a feud in Michinoku Pro against a returning Dick Togo and his sable, Far East Connection.\n\nSasuke left the running of the promotion to Shinzaki in 2003 to focus on his political career, handing the president job to him. He lost the NWA title to Último Dragón, who then vacated it in preparation for his WWE career. The same year, Sasuke reconciled with Super Delfín for a special match on November 2 by mediation of Shinzaki.\n\nIn 2004, Sasuke became a regular wrestler for Hustle, where he played a lieutenant role to \"Hustle Captain\" Naoya Ogawa. At the same time, with MPW now repopulated by most of the fallen Toryumon X wrestlers, Sasuke commanded the Michinoku home army against the new top heel faction, Los Salseros Japoneses (Takeshi Minamino, Pineapple Hanai and Mango Fukuda). He formed tag teams with Dick Togo and Garuda, but also joined Kei and Shu Sato to try to reform Sailor Boys, the boy band stable they formed in Toryumon with Taiji Ishimori. However, this was short-lived, as the Sato brothers turned heel the same year and joined Kagetora to create Stoned, the next great heel stable.\n\nSasuke spent 2006 in an interpromotional feud with Osaka Pro Wrestling, eventually having a degree of reconciliation with Super Delfin in the ring, and continued wrestling in Hustle and other promotions, allying with tarento Hitomi Kaikawa in her wrestling debut. The same year, after a series of challenges, Sasuke initiated the tradition of the , a garbage wrestling event where he would face off against the Sato brothers under outrageous costumed identities and fantastic storylines. After sitting out of most of 2007 due to his political career, he returned to form a tag team with upcoming ace Yoshitsune. Stoned disappeared later in the year, leaving place for the rise of Kowloon, a traitorous faction apparently led by Hayato Fujita. Yoshitsune departed at the end of 2008, leaving Sasuke and Shinzaki to delegate the Michinoku Seikigun on Kenou. In 2010, Sasuke's old enemy Ultimo Dragón appeared to reveal himself as the master behind Kowloon.\n\nIn August 2009, months after unsuccessfully challenging Fujita for the Tohoku Junior Heavyweight Championship, Sasuke adopted a gimmick based on Randy \"The Ram\" Robinson, Mickey Rourke's character from the professional wrestling film \"The Wrestler\". He started wrestling barechested for the first time in his career, donned green tights with, and adopted a taunting diving headbutt just like the film character. He abandoned the impersonation after a couple years, though he retained the custom to wear only shorter tights as opposed to his old bodysuit.\n\nOn April 15, 2011, Sasuke returned to the United States to wrestle for Chikara in the 2011 King of Trios tournament, where he would represent Michinoku Pro with Dick Togo and Jinsei Shinzaki. In their first round match Team Michinoku Pro defeated Team Minnesota (1-2-3 Kid, Arik Cannon and Darin Corbin). The following day, Team Michinoku Pro defeated Jigsaw, Manami Toyota and Mike Quackenbush to advance to the semifinals of the tournament. On April 17, Team Michinoku Pro was eliminated from the tournament in the semifinal stage by F.I.S.T. (Chuck Taylor, Icarus and Johnny Gargano).\n\nAt the end of 2013, Sasuke took part in the classic \"Great Space War\" match, where he performed a striptease with Macho Pump parodying the film \"Magic Mike\". However, for the first time in the history of GSW, Kei and Shu Sato (now known as the Brahman Brothers) defeated Sasuke after the latter crashed in a dangerous stunt, which prompted him to reflex about the state of things. Sasuke then said he knew the Brahmans were attempting to protect the Earth from alien invaders, and asked them to join forces to fight for the greater good. This led to the creation of Mu no Taiyo, a \"shinshūkyō\" cult-themed stable, with Sasuke posing as their messianic leader under a new mask modified to resemble the Brahmans. It marked the first time Sasuke had turned heel in many years.\n\nMu no Taiyo opposed the Michinoku home army, but had a particular beef with popular tag team of Yapper Man 1 and Yapper Man 2, as well as New Phase, the new team of Ayumu Gunji and Daichi Sasaki.\n\nIn 1999, Sasuke performed on \"Sasuke\", the popular Japanese obstacle course competition. In the Third Competition, he got stuck at the Rolling Log and timed out on the Hill Climb. When the name SASUKE was translated into \"Ninja Warrior\" for the United States, the translators ignored his wrestling background and called him \"The Great Ninja Warrior\".\n\nSasuke is also part of the rock band Crazy Crew with Ricky Fuji and Ken45°.\n\nOn February 19, 2009, Sasuke was arrested for assault after kicking a 36-year-old man and grabbing him by the shirt collar. Sasuke was reported to be angry because his picture was being taken with a cellphone camera. The incident happened on a JR Joban Line train at Minamisenju Station. However, all charges were dropped and was released from jail on February 21, after serving 40 hours in jail, after Sasuke apologized to the man. The man who took Sasuke's photograph was said to not have known who he was and thought he was just some crazy person wearing a mask in public.\n\nOn April 13, 2003, Sasuke won election to the Iwate Prefectural Assembly, making him the first actual masked legislator in history. He is the fourth Japanese wrestler to get elected to office. Antonio Inoki, Hiroshi Hase and Atsushi Onita preceded him, though all of them were elected to the Japanese Diet at the national level.\n\nSasuke lost in his bid to become governor of Iwate in the 2007 election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850227", "title": "Bailey, Colorado", "text": "Bailey, Colorado\n\nBailey is an unincorporated community and U.S. Post Office in northeastern Park County, Colorado, United States. Bailey's Post Office ZIP Code is 80421.\n\nThe town community consists of several small businesses, restaurants and churches.\n\nThe North Fork South Platte River flows through Bailey.\n\nWilliam Bailey settled a ranch and built a stage station known as Bailey's Ranch in 1864. Bailey also built a hotel at the station, and the town eventually became known as Bailey. The Denver & South Park Railroad reached Bailey in 1878, and the Bailey Post Office opened on November 20, 1878.\n\nOn March 18, 2006, the Coney Island Hot Dog Stand, a landmark building shaped like a giant hot dog was moved from Aspen Park to Bailey.\n\nOn September 27, 2006, a hostage crisis occurred after a lone gunman took seven female students hostage at a classroom in Platte Canyon High School and sexually assaulted them before opening fire after a SWAT team breached the room. One hostage was killed, while the remaining escaped uninjured. The hostage-taker then committed suicide after being shot by police.\n\nOn February 24, 2016, three Park County Sheriffs were shot, one fatally. these officers were responding to shooter in the house.\n\nThe rustic Glen-Isle Resort in Bailey, as well as the Estabrook Historic District northeast of Bailey, are both listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBailey is located in the foothills of the Front Range, approximately 30 miles (48 km) southwest of Denver along U.S. Highway 285. It is located on the east side of Kenosha Pass and is one of the largest communities in the Platte Canyon region.\n\nBailey Day street festival is an annual summer event in the city, featuring bands, vendors and family activities.\n\nThe Bailey HUNDO is a 100-mile endurance mountain bike race that begins and ends in Bailey. It has been an annual event since 2009, and money raised is invested in the construction of new bike trails and in youth biking initiatives in Colorado. Both the Buffalo Creek Trail System and the Colorado Trail are easily accessible from Bailey.\n\nTomahawk Ranch, a residential camp operated by the Girl Scouts of Colorado, is located near Bailey.\n\nIn 2004, Bailey was the location for Apogaea, an annual outdoor arts and music festival.\n\nBailey is served by the Platte Canyon School District #1.\n\nPlatte Canyon High School has approximately 300 students. In sports, they are a 3A school in the Frontier League. The Girls' Cross Country Team was the Colorado State 3A Champion in 1986, and the Girls' Track Team was the Colorado State 3A Champion in 1996 and in 2005, and the Boys' Track Team was the Colorado 3A State Champion in 2008. The Speech and Debate team holds the record for the most individual State Champions at the Festival Level.\n\n\nBailey was referenced four times in \"South Park\"; in a season 6 episode parodying \"The Lord of the Rings\", season 9 in \"Bloody Mary\", in a season 12 episode entitled \"Britney's New Look\" and season 23 episode 3 \"SHOTS!!!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850247", "title": "Brian Talbot", "text": "Brian Talbot\n\nBrian Ernest Talbot (born 21 July 1953) is an English former football player and manager. He was capped six times for the England national team.\n\nTalbot played in midfield for Ipswich Town, Arsenal, Watford, Stoke City, West Bromwich Albion, Fulham and Aldershot of the Football League, for non-league club Sudbury Town, and for the Toronto Metros of the North American Soccer League. He then went into management with West Bromwich Albion, Aldershot, Rushden & Diamonds, Oldham Athletic, Oxford United, and two Maltese clubs, Hibernians and Marsaxlokk.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1988, Talbot was chairman of the Professional Footballers' Association.\n\nA midfielder, Talbot began his football apprenticeship with Ipswich Town in 1968, during which he spent two seasons on loan with Canadian club Toronto Metros of the North American Soccer League, turning professional in 1972. He made 227 appearances for Ipswich, and won the 1977–78 FA Cup with the club. In the semi-final against West Bromwich Albion, Talbot scored the first goal after seven minutes, but was injured in the act of scoring when he collided head-to-head with Albion's skipper, John Wile. Wile played with a bandaged head for the remainder of the contest while Talbot needed three stitches in a cut above the eye and was unable to continue. In 2013, Talbot was inducted into the Ipswich Town F.C. Hall of Fame.\n\nIn January 1979, Talbot moved to Arsenal for a fee of £450,000. He went straight into the first team and played for the Gunners in that year's FA Cup final, scoring in a 3–2 victory over Manchester United, the first player for more than 100 years to win the FA Cup with two different teams in consecutive seasons. The following year he set a club record, as an ever-present in Arsenal's marathon 70-match 1979–80 season; the club reached the finals of both the FA Cup and the European Cup Winners' Cup, but lost them both.\n\nBecause of his stamina and fitness, Talbot missed \"at most, a handful\" of Arsenal's first-team matches. In all, he played 327 first-team matches for the Gunners, scoring 49 goals, and was voted in at number 23 in a 2016 poll of Arsenal's greatest 50 players.\n\nHe left Arsenal in June 1985, spending a season and a half at Watford before joining his old Ipswich Town teammate Mick Mills at Stoke City in October 1986, where he helped the Potters climb the table only to fall six points short of a play-off place. During the 1987–88 he made 27 appearances before he left in January 1988 for West Bromwich. Talbot played three years for the Baggies, mostly as player-manager, ending his Football League career with brief spells at Fulham in March 1991, then with Aldershot, and finally with Sudbury Town of the Eastern Counties League.\n\nTalbot played as an over-age player in England's first match at under-21 level, a goalless friendly with Wales in December 1976. He made his senior debut on 28 May 1977, as a second-half substitute in a 2–1 win against Northern Ireland in the 1976–77 British Home Championship, and his first start on 4 June in the same competition against Scotland at Wembley. He started England's next three matches, on a South American tour later in June. Between 1978 and 1980, he played eight matches for England B, scoring three goals, and made his sixth and final senior appearancethe only one he made as an Arsenal playerin May 1980 against Australia in Sydney.\n\nTalbot's managerial debut came with West Bromwich Albion, where he served as player-manager from February 1989 to January 1991. His tenure started well, with the side challenging for promotion. But a collapse during the final weeks of the 1988–89 season meant they failed even to qualify for the playoffs. The following season saw the team only narrowly survive in the Second Division, and the struggle continued into the 1990–91 season. Talbot was dismissed by Albion after a 4–2 FA Cup defeat at the hands of non-league Woking; the team ended the season with relegation to the Third Division for the first time ever. After leaving Albion, he joined Fulham and played five times in the Third Division, scoring once, before being appointed player-manager of Fourth Division strugglers Aldershot, who were deep in debt. After a dismal start to the 1991–92 season, Talbot left the Shots in November 1991 and was succeeded by Ian McDonald; four months later the club went bust and were forced out of the Football League. Talbot then led Maltese Premier League club Hibernians to the league title in 1993 and 1994.\n\nHe returned to English club football as part of the coaching staff of Rushden and Diamonds, then in the Football Conference, in 1997. After a spell as head coach he was appointed club manager before the start of the 1999–2000 season. At the end of the 2000–01 season Rushden secured promotion to the Football League under his management. The team reached the Division Three playoffs in 2002 but lost in the final. In their second season in the League they secured the 2002–03 Division Three title, but were relegated the following season, Talbot having left the club in March 2004 after seven years to take over at Oldham Athletic.\n\nTalbot succeeded in keeping Oldham in Division Two in 2004, then the following season he took them into the third round of the FA Cup, in which the Latics produced a shock result to beat local Premier League team Manchester City 1–0 thanks to a goal from Scott Vernon. But results in the League were not the same: following a defeat to Bolton Wanderers, the team went on a seven-match losing streak which led to Talbot's departure by mutual consent on 24 February 2005 following a 5–1 defeat at Bristol City. He signed a two-year contract as manager of Oxford United before the final game of the 2004–05 season. After an unsuccessful stint in charge, Talbot was sacked in mid-March 2006 with the team 22nd in League Two, having not won since 2 January and destined to lose their League status at the end of the season.\n\nTalbot made a quick return to management in Malta with Marsaxlokk, and guided them to the domestic league title and a place in the UEFA Champions League. Following a disappointing start to the 2008–09 Maltese Premier League season, Marsaxlokk appointed former Msida Saint-Joseph manager Patrick Curmi as the club's new head coach on 17 December 2008. Talbot remained with the club until early 2011 in the role of technical director.\n\nIn February 2011, he joined English Premier League club Fulham as European scout. He was promoted to chief scout and assistant director of football operations in February 2017.\n\nTalbot has a son, Daniel Talbot, who is also a footballer.\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nIpswich Town\nArsenal\n\nIndividual\n\nHibernians\nRushden & Diamonds\n Marsaxlokk\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "1850249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850249", "title": "Ethel Stark", "text": "Ethel Stark\n\nEthel Stark, (25 August 1910 – 16 February 2012) was a Canadian violinist and conductor.\n\nBorn in Montreal, Quebec, she studied at the McGill Conservatory of Music with Alfred De Sève and Alfred Whitehead. From 1928 to 1934, she studied at the Curtis Institute of Music with Lea Luboshutz, Louis Bailly, Artur Rodziński, Fritz Reiner and Carl Flesch. For many years she taught on the faculty of the Conservatoire de musique du Québec à Montréal.\n\nIn 1979 she was made a Member of the Order of Canada. In 2003 she was made a Grand Officer of the National Order of Quebec. In 1980 she was awarded a Doctor of Laws, honoris causa degree from Concordia University.\n\nShe died in Montreal and was buried in Montreal's Spanish and Portuguese Congregation Cemetery.\n\nA park in Montreal has been named after her. Parc Ethel-Stark is located at the corner of Prince-Arthur Ouest and Clark streets.\n\nIn 1940, at the age of 29, Ethel founded the Montreal Women's Symphony Orchestra, which she conducted until 1960. She was the first conductor of an all women's symphony. The decision to form this orchestra was a spur of the moment decision that Stark made.\n\nThe first performance of the Montreal Women's Symphony took place in the summer of 1940 to a crowd of 5,000 people. Critics raved that it was ingenious and that it “had broken away from conservative ideas about music and women in music.\"The Toronto Symphony “Pop” Concert was guest conducted by Ethel in February 1946. The performance was received warmly, and gaining recognition and popularity, the Montreal Women's Symphony signed a contract in autumn of 1947. Ethel was noted as feeling, “that the contract to play at Carnegie Hall is not so much to her and her musicians the answer to every artist’s hopes and ambitions as an acknowledgment that at last it is accepted that there’s room for women in music.\"\n\nDavid Gutnick of the CBC Radio One program The Sunday Edition produced a radio documentary about the Montreal Women's Symphony Orchestra in April 2012. You can hear the orchestra and interview segments with Ethel Stark and musicians Pearl Aronoff (Rosemarin), Lyse Vezina and Violet Grant States who was the first black woman in a Canadian symphony orchestra and the first black woman symphony musician to play Carnegie Hall. You also hear from musicologist Maria Noriega who wrote her master's thesis (University of Calgary) and is writing a phd on women in classical music in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850255", "title": "Pine Junction, Colorado", "text": "Pine Junction, Colorado\n\nPine Junction is a small unincorporated community in central Colorado in the United States. Pine Junction is the first intersection with a traffic light on U.S. Highway 285 in the foothills. At this traffic light, you can turn left on Colorado Rd 126 to go to the historic Town of Pine Grove and continue to State Highway 67 to Deckers and Woodland Park.\n\nPine Junction is situated in the foothills of the Front Range south of Mount Evans, approximately 25 miles (40 km) southwest of Denver along U.S. Highway 285. The community sits astride the Park-Jefferson county line, and is situated at the crest of a hill on the highway, east of where the highway drops from Crow Hill down into the Platte Canyon near Bailey. The community consists of a strip of retail businesses along the highway, as well as nearby houses on either side of highway. It serves partially as a bedroom community for the Denver Metropolitan Area to the northeast.\n\nPine Junction is part of Colorado's Bustang network. It is on the Gunnison-Denver Outrider line.\n"}
{"id": "1850261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850261", "title": "Ståle Stensaas", "text": "Ståle Stensaas\n\nStåle Stensaas (born 7 July 1971 in Trondheim) is a Norwegian football coach and former player. He spent the majority of his career at Rosenborg, and he is currently coaching Rosenborg's junior team.\n\nStensaas played for the Norwegian Tippeliga side Rosenborg from 1992 to 1997. One of the highlights of his career is his super goal against Blackburn Rovers in the UEFA Champions League in 1995. He was sold to Scottish club Rangers, where he scored goals against Kilmarnock in the league and Falkirk in the League Cup. He struggled to hold a place in the Rangers team and he returned to Rosenborg in 2000. Stensaas was sold to F.C Lyn Oslo in the winter 2007, on a two-year contract. In the 2008 season he was on loan to Tippeligaen rivals Lillestrøm SK.\n\nHe has nine caps, and one goal.\n\nAfter his career as professional football player ended in 2008, he started coaching Rosenborg's junior team. The team won the Norwegian junior championship in the 2009 season\n\nStensaas has three children: Andreas, Hanne and Sophie. He is a carpenter by profession, in addition to professional footballing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850264", "title": "Karat (airline)", "text": "Karat (airline)\n\nKarat (Karat Air) was an airline based in Moscow, Russia. It operates scheduled services from Moscow and charter flights from Kazan, as well as VIP and business aviation services. Its main base is Vnukovo International Airport, Moscow, with a hub at Kazan International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established in 1993 as Karat Air Company (formerly known as Rikor). In 2004 it united with Tulpar Aviation to form Karat Air.\n\nAs of January 2005 Karat Air operates the following services:\n\n\nAs of March 2007 the Karat Air fleet includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850265", "title": "Nothing Sacred (film)", "text": "Nothing Sacred (film)\n\nNothing Sacred is an American Technicolor screwball comedy film directed in 1937 by William A. Wellman, produced by David O. Selznick, and starring Carole Lombard and Fredric March with a supporting cast featuring Charles Winninger and Walter Connolly. Ben Hecht was credited with the screenplay based on the 1937 story \"Letter to the Editor\" by James H. Street, and an array of additional writers, including Ring Lardner Jr., Budd Schulberg, Dorothy Parker, Sidney Howard, Moss Hart, George S. Kaufman and Robert Carson made uncredited contributions.\n\nThe lush, Gershwinesque music score was by Oscar Levant, with additional music by Alfred Newman and Max Steiner and a swing number by Raymond Scott's Quintette. The film was shot in Technicolor by W. Howard Greene and edited by James E. Newcom, and was a Selznick International Pictures production distributed by United Artists.\n\nThis was Lombard's only Technicolor film. She stated that this film was one of her personal favorites.\n\nNew York newspaper reporter Wally Cook (Fredric March) is blamed for reporting a Harlem bootblack Ernest Walker (Troy Brown) as an African nobleman hosting a charity event. Cook claims he was unaware, but he is demoted to writing obituaries. He begs his boss Oliver Stone (Walter Connolly) for another chance, and points out a story about a woman, Hazel Flagg, dying of radium poisoning. Cook is sent to the (fictional) town of Warsaw, Vermont, to interview Flagg (Carole Lombard). Cook finally locates Hazel, who is crying both because her doctor has told her that she is \"not\" dying and because she realizes she might be stuck in Vermont for her whole life. Unaware of this, Cook invites Hazel and her doctor to New York as guests of the \"Morning Star\" newspaper.\n\nThe newspaper uses her story to increase its circulation. She receives a ticker tape parade and the key to the city, and becomes an inspiration to many. She and Wally fall in love, and he asks her to marry him even though he still thinks she's dying. After a medical exam by three independent doctors it is finally discovered that Hazel is not really dying, and city officials and Stone decide that it would be better to avoid embarrassment by having it seem that she went off to die, \"like an elephant\". Hazel and Wally get married and quietly set sail for the tropics.\n\n\nAccording to William Wellman Jr., Janet Gaynor had originally been cast as Hazel Flagg to follow on the success of \"A Star is Born\" (1937). However, after William Wellman Sr. met Carole Lombard, he convinced Selznick to cast her.\n\nA boxing world champion, Maxie Rosenbloom gave Lombard boxing lessons to prepare her for her fight scene with Fredric March.\n\nThe first screwball comedy filmed in color, \"Nothing Sacred\" also represents the first use in a color film of process effects, montage and rear screen projection. Backgrounds for the rear projection were filmed on the streets of New York. Paramount Pictures and other studios refined this technique in their subsequent color features.\n\nBen Hecht is credited with writing the screenplay in two weeks on a train. He adapted the story \"Letter to the Editor\" by James H. Street which had been first been published in \"Hearst's International-Cosmopolitan\". Hecht wrote a role for his friend John Barrymore in the film, but David Selznick refused to use him as Barrymore had become by then an incurable alcoholic. This caused a rift between Hecht and Selznick, and Hecht walked off the picture. Budd Schulberg and Dorothy Parker were called in to write the final scenes and several others also made contributions to the screenplay, including: David O. Selznick, William Wellman, Sidney Howard, Moss Hart, George S. Kaufman and Robert Carson.\n\nOne reason that the film is considered among the most celebrated screwball comedies is that underneath the humor it incorporates sharply cynical themes of corruption and dishonesty. This film, along with Hecht's \"The Front Page\" (1931) and its 1940 remake \"His Girl Friday\" with Cary Grant, caricatures the chicanery to which some newspapers resorted in order to get a \"hot\" story.\n\nThe film recorded a loss of $400,000 at the box office. In July 2018, it was selected to be screened in the Venice Classics section at the 75th Venice International Film Festival.\n\nIn 1965, the film entered the public domain in the United States because the copyright owners did not renew its copyright registration in the 28th year after publication.\n\nBecause of its public domain status, the film is a staple of bargain bin releases and collections. Although it was generally in watchable condition, until recently the best DVD was a US region 0 disc from Lumivision, later reissued by Sling Shot. In 2011, Kino Lorber issued the film on DVD and Blu-ray, mastered from a 2K scan of Selznick's personal nitrate print, preserved by the George Eastman House Motion Picture Department. In 2018, Kino reissued their Blu-ray, this time mastered from a 2K scan of Disney's 1999 restoration, carried out on behalf of ABC, holder of most of the Selznick library).\n\nBen Hecht's screenplay was also the basis of a Broadway musical, \"Hazel Flagg\" (1953) with Helen Gallagher, as well as \"Living It Up\" (1954), a comedy film starring Dean Martin in the Winninger role, Jerry Lewis in the Lombard role (as Homer Flagg), and Janet Leigh in the March role.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850266", "title": "Waikato Mounted Rifles", "text": "Waikato Mounted Rifles\n\nThe Waikato Mounted Rifles (WMR) is the New Zealand Army’s only Territorial Force (Army Reserve) squadron of the Royal New Zealand Armoured Corps (RNZAC). The Squadron's origins can be traced back to 1869 when the first mounted unit was raised in the Waikato. Today the Squadron is part of Queen Alexandra's Mounted Rifles (QAMR) where it forms the regiment's reserve squadron. WMR's role is mounted reconnaissance and surveillance.\n\nWMR’s lineage extends back to the New Zealand Wars (1843–72) and the formation of the Cambridge Mounted Rangers Volunteers. This unit was accepted for service on 24 July 1869, and today this date is recognised as WMR's ‘birthday’ and commemorated by the Squadron each year. Although the Cambridge Mounted Rangers Volunteers were disbanded in 1870, they were effectively re-formed shortly afterwards as the Cambridge Cavalry Volunteers.\n\nThe formation of the Cambridge Cavalry Volunteers, together with the nearby Te Awamutu Cavalry Volunteers (1871) and the Hamilton Cavalry Volunteers (1880) led directly to the creation of the Waikato Mounted Rifle Volunteers (1897), and then to the 4th (Waikato) Mounted Rifles when New Zealand's Volunteer Force was superseded by the Territorial Force (TF) in 1911.\n\nIn 1885 all of New Zealand's Volunteer Force cavalry units were turned into mounted rifles units. This was more than just a change of title, as the New Zealand Volunteer Manual makes clear: \"“It cannot be too frequently impressed upon all ranks of mounted rifles that they are in no sense cavalry. They are only intended to fight on foot; their horses enabling them to make longer and more rapid movements than the infantry soldier.”\"\n\nMounted riflemen had the same mobility as cavalry, but because they dismounted out of direct fire range, they were much less vulnerable. New Zealand's mounted troops still required, \"“all the élan, dash and spirit of cavalry, but train to fight dismounted”\".\n\nThe historian of the New Zealand Mounted Rifles in the First World War, Lieutenant Colonel (Retired) Terry Kinloch, however draws an important distinction between mounted rifles and mounted infantry. \"“A mounted rifleman was a horseman who was trained to fight on foot, but also to carry out some of the other cavalry functions, such as reconnaissance and screening. A mounted infantryman was no horseman. He rode a horse when he had to, but he fought on foot, and did not undertake reconnaissance or any other cavalry role. Mounted riflemen thus fitted in between cavalry and mounted infantry, performing some of the secondary roles of cavalry, but fighting on foot.”\"\n\nAnother source explains that mounted infantry were foot soldiers provided with increased mobility, whilst mounted riflemen were horsemen trained to fight on foot in both offensive and defensive actions. As horsemen they were also expected to perform the duties of reconnoitring and screening troop movements as well as providing protection from surprise attacks. Mounted infantry were picked soldiers often organised in small units as adjuncts to an infantry brigade, or to an independent force of cavalry.\n\nEach mounted rifles unit was recruited on a voluntary basis with troopers bringing their own horses to take part in military training. They were well represented when New Zealand first sent troops overseas to South Africa. On 28 September 1899, the New Zealand Government offered a contingent to serve with the British Imperial Forces in South Africa, two weeks before the war with the Boer republic began. A total of 10 contingents – the New Zealand Mounted Rifles (NZMR) – were sent between 1899 and 1902, totalling 6,495 officers and men and more than 8000 horses. (At this time New Zealand's population was only 900,000.)\n\nThe largest engagement in South Africa involving New Zealanders was at Langverwacht Hill in February 1902. Here, whilst defending a cordon enveloping between 800 and 900 Boer guerrillas under De Wet, the Seventh Contingent suffered badly: of approximately 90 men holding the New Zealand line, 24 were killed and more than 40 wounded. These losses are some of the most severe suffered by a New Zealand unit in a single short action in any war . Lord Kitchener reported that they had, \"\"displayed great gallantry and resolution at a critical moment,\"\" and that their conduct on this occasion, \"\"reflects the highest credit upon all ranks of the contingent, and upon the Colony to which it belongs. Nothing could have been finer than the behaviour of the men.\"\"\n\nEarlier, General Sir Ian Hamilton, had said this of the New Zealanders he had observed in the field: \"\"I have soldiered a long time now, but I have never in my life met men I would sooner soldier with than New Zealanders. I feel the greatest affection for them and I shall never forget the work they did in South Africa\"\" Hamilton was to meet New Zealanders again in an even greater test fourteen years later at Gallipoli.\n\nAnother senior British officer, quoted in The Times History of the War in South Africa, wrote of the New Zealanders: \"\"It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that after they had a little experience, they were, by general consent, regarded as on average the best mounted troops in South Africa.\"\"\nThe battle honour ‘South Africa 1900–02’ was the first to be awarded to WMR.\n\nWhen the TF was formed in 1911 (three years after the Territorial Army in Britain) and compulsory military training introduced, New Zealand could field 12 mounted rifles regiments. Today only two NZ Army units still carry the Mounted Rifles title: WMR and QAMR.\n\nThe cap badge of the 4th (Waikato) Mounted Rifles dates from shortly before the First World War: a native Kaka parrot within a wreath of kowhai leaves and blossoms. The Latin motto, \"“Libertas et Natale Solum”\" is best translated as \"“Liberty and Homeland”\".\n\nThe Regimental March, ‘D’ye ken John Peel’ was also adopted. This was published in 1903 for general use as a trot by all mounted units, and in England was then used by the East Riding of Yorkshire Yeomanry. While this regiment has since evolved into today's Yorkshire Squadron of The Queen's Own Yeomanry, the same Regimental March has been retained.\n\nOn the outbreak of the First World War in 1914, the 1st New Zealand Expeditionary Force (NZEF) was formed for overseas service. It included a NZMR brigade. The TF Auckland Mounted Rifles Brigade comprised three regiments. For the NZEF, each of those regiments contributed and sustained a service squadron to the Auckland Mounted Rifles Regiment (AMR) of the NZMR Brigade. The squadron provided to AMR by WMR was known as the 4th (Waikato) Squadron.\n\nTerry Kinloch has described how the New Zealand mounted rifles regiments were organised: \"\"Each mounted rifles regiment numbered 549 men and 608 horses organised as a headquarters, three squadrons and a machine gun section.\n\nA squadron of 158 men and 169 horses comprised a headquarters and four troops. Each troop consisted of eight four-man sections. The section was the fundamental building block of the mounted rifles regiment. In combat, one man in each section was responsible for holding the horses when the other three fought on foot. The four men lived, worked, fought and sometimes died together, and they usually became close friends.\"\"\n\nAs part of the NZMR Brigade, the AMR served throughout the Gallipoli, Sinai and Palestine campaigns, finally returning to New Zealand in 1919 when it was demobilised. For this service the following battle honours were awarded to WMR: Anzac, Defence of Anzac, Hill 60 (Anzac), Sari Bair, Gallipoli 1915, Rumani, Magdaba-Rafah, Egypt 1915–17, Gaza-Beersheba, Jerusalem, Jaffa, Jericho, Jordan (Amman), Megiddo, Nablus and Palestine 1917–18.\n\nThe role played by the NZMR Brigade fighting dismounted alongside the infantry against the Turks during the Gallipoli campaign of 1915 has been well recorded; less well known are the Brigade's operations in Egypt, Palestine and Syria.\n\nArguably the finest hours of AMR's 4th Waikato Squadron on Gallipoli occurred during the 8 and 9 August 1915 during the assault on Chunuk Bair, the summit of the dominant Sari Bair Ridge. After a most hazardous approach under continuous fire, AMR succeeding in reaching the sorely pressed Wellington Infantry Battalion that had earlier seized the peak. Together the survivors held out against repeated Turkish assaults, suffering appalling casualties. When eventually relieved, AMR had virtually ceased to exist. Of the 288 that had advanced on the summit, only 22 were able to walk off the hill unaided. All the officers in the 4th Waikato Squadron were dead. Ultimately Chunuk Bair was lost, and Hamilton's August offensive failed.\n\nThe Gallipoli campaign decimated the original NZMR Brigade. When the peninsula finally came to be evacuated in December, almost half of the 4000 mounted riflemen who had served there since May had been killed or wounded.\n\nOnce reunited with their horses in Egypt, the Brigade formed part of what later became known as the Desert Mounted Corps, eventually consisting of 20,000 horsemen drawn from Australian, Indian, British Yeomanry and New Zealand units, and the largest tactical force of cavalry ever to operate under one command. The campaign under General Allenby concluded with the fall of Damascus and the complete defeat of the Turkish Army in 1918.\n\nIt is instructive to read extracts from the tributes paid afterwards to the NZMR Brigade by successive British Commanders in Chief:\n\"\"New Zealand has every reason to be proud of what her sons have done for the Empire, and in no theatre have they more reason to be so than the glorious and bewilderingly successful campaign in Palestine.\"\" (General Sir John Maxwell, GCB, KCMG, CVO, DSO.)\n\"\"Fortunate indeed is a commander in the field who has at his disposal New Zealand mounted troops, for he can depend on them at all times to display energy, resource and endurance. All these three qualities were time after time exemplified by the New Zealanders in the waterless desert country of Sinai... Not only is the brigade equal to any troops in energy, resource and endurance, but in addition it is second to none in determination and dash... The Empire is proud of the New Zealand Mounted Brigade and I personally owe it a debt of lasting gratitude.\"\" (General Sir Archibald Murray, CCMG, KCB, CVO, DSO.)\n\"\"When the autumn campaign was in progress, the New Zealanders took a leading part in defeating the Turkish IV Army. In the Jordan Valley, and thence eastward, over their old battlefield of Shunet Nimrin, Es Salt and Amman, to the Hedjaz railway, the men of New Zealand fought and marched to final and complete victory. Nothing daunted these intrepid fighters; to them nothing was impossible.\"\" (Field Marshall Sir Edmund Allenby, GCB, GCMG).\n\nField Marshall Lord Wavell summarised the part played by the Desert Mounted Corps in the campaign like this:\n\"\"The greatest exploit in history of horsed cavalry, and possibly their last success on a large scale, had ended within a short distance of the battlefield of Issus (333 B.C.), where Alexander the Great first showed how battles could be won by bold and well-handled horsemen.\"\"\n\nThe campaign in Egypt, Palestine and Syria was to be the heyday of New Zealand's mounted rifles regiments.\n\nAfter the First World War the TF continued much in its previous form, although in 1921 the 12 mounted rifles regiments were reduced to nine. Horses were maintained in all the regiments. In the same year, the title of the 4th (Waikato) Mounted Rifles was altered first to the 4th New Zealand Mounted Rifles (Waikato), and then on 6 September 1927 to the Waikato Mounted Rifles.\n\nIn 1927 the New Zealand mounted rifles regiments received permission from King George V to carry Guidons. Although some mounted rifles regiments were later presented with Guidons, there is no record of WMR ever having received this honour, and that position continues to this day.\n\n1927 was also the year in which two British cavalry regiments, the 11th Hussars (Prince Albert's Own) and the 12th Royal Lancers (Prince of Wales's), were converted to armoured cars, becoming the first regular cavalry in the world to be fully mechanised. The era of the horse in land warfare was slowly drawing to a close.\n\nMeanwhile, the Waikato Mounted Rifles regiment was now based at the Drill Hall in Knox Street in Hamilton and organised into four squadrons: HQ, A, B, and C. A typical squadron consisted of about 160 soldiers with their horses, broken down into four troops.\n\nCompulsory military training ceased in 1930 at the beginning of the Depression. At the same time pressure for mechanisation was growing and in 1936 it was decided that the TF would be motorised. As part of this process, each mounted rifles regiment was allowed to raise a light car and motorcycle troop. By 1937, with TF numbers dropping, the Government was forced to reduce the numbers of TF units in each military district. From now on, each district would have a composite mounted rifles regiment and a composite motorised mounted rifles squadron. In the Northern Military District, WMR provided one squadron for the horsed regiment, and one troop for the motorised squadron.\n\nIn 1939 the first armoured vehicles were purchased for the Army: six Bren gun carriers. Initially two were issued to each military district; later these were recalled to become the nucleus for the 2nd New Zealand Divisional Cavalry Regiment (more commonly known as the ‘Div Cav’).\n\nAfter the outbreak of war with Germany, the TF was returned to its former size. There were some changes, mainly increasing the pre-war efforts to motorise the Army. One regiment in each mounted rifles brigade was now fully motorised, on the same basis as a British motorised battalion. In the Northern Military District this was to be WMR, and so as vehicles became available, the regiment was gradually parted from its horses.\n\nAt the start of the war, the Government agreed to raise an expeditionary force to be placed at the disposal of the British Government. The Div Cav was part of this force with the majority of its personnel coming from the mounted rifles regiments, including WMR who also provided the unit's first commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel CJ Pierce, MC .\n\nThe Div Cav subsequently fought with General Freyberg's 2nd New Zealand Division in Greece, North Africa and Italy, equipped variously with Vickers Light Mark III and VIb tanks, Bren carriers, Marmon-Herrington armoured cars, M3 Stuart light tanks and Staghound armoured cars. The Div Cav had the double distinction of being the first unit to be raised and equipped with armour in New Zealand and the first New Zealand armoured unit to be deployed operationally overseas.\n\nWar correspondent and 2NZEF staff officer Geoffrey Cox described the men of the Div Cav he saw fighting in Crete like this: \"\"They were mostly farmers, brown-faced, weather-beaten men, sinewy and fit, with at their head the huge figure of their commander, Major John Russell. Had the 2nd New Zealand Division run to an elite force the Divisional Cavalry would have been a candidate for that title.\"\"\n\nThe Div Cav provided many of the original volunteers for what was to become the Long Range Desert Group, amongst whom was at least one former WMR trooper.\n\nBack in New Zealand in November 1941 it was decided that the mounted rifles regiments were to be reconstituted as armoured units and organised along the lines of a divisional cavalry unit, with armoured cars, Bren carriers and lorries. Much to the chagrin of those concerned, they were redesignated as ‘Light Armoured Fighting Vehicle Regiments’. WMR thus became the 4th Light Armoured Fighting Vehicle (4 LAFV) regiment, based at Ngāruawāhia Camp near Hamilton. With the entry of the Japanese into the war in December 1941, the TF was mobilised for home defence.\n\nThe New Zealand Armoured Corps was formed on 1 January 1942 (the ‘Royal’ prefix was not granted until 12 July 1947). The first Stuart tanks, 24 in all, arrived in New Zealand in June 1942. The following month personnel from each LAFV regiment were sent to the New Zealand Armoured Fighting Vehicle School at Waiouru Military Camp to take part in training on the new tanks, more of which arrived in October.\n\nIn November further developments took place with each unit being designated as either an armoured regiment with a mix of Stuart and valentine tanks, or a reconnaissance regiment with Stuart tanks, Beaverette armoured cars and carriers. In the process, and much to their satisfaction, the units regained their old titles. It took until 1943 to implement these changes.\n\nFrom April 1943 onwards the mounted rifles regiments were called upon to provide personnel for the reinforcement drafts for units overseas, mainly being the 18th, 19th and 20th Armoured Regiments that were equipped with M4 Sherman tanks in the 4th New Zealand Armoured Brigade in Italy. This service was recognised at the end of the war when the Auckland, Waikato and North Auckland Mounted Rifles Regiments inherited the battle honours of the 18th Armoured Regiment from the Italian campaign: The Sangro, Castel Frentano, Orsogna, Advance to Florence, San Michele, Paula Line, Celle, Pisciatello, the Senio, Santerno Crossing, Bologna, Idice Bridgehead and Italy 1943–45.\n\nBy June the drain on personnel had been so severe that no TF unit was fully operational, and in July all the mounted rifles regiments were reduced to training cadres for training personnel for overseas service. Finally, in March 1944 came the reorganisation of the New Zealand Armoured Corps. Three armoured regiments were to be formed, one in each military district. In the Northern Military District the three mounted rifles regiments, including WMR, were amalgamated to form the 1st Armoured Regiment.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, the TF remained largely dormant until 1949 when compulsory military training was reintroduced in New Zealand for the armed forces. In 1951 the Waikato Regiment, a pre-war infantry unit, was incorporated into the 1st Armoured Regiment to form the 1st Armoured Regiment (Waikato), RNZAC. The Colours of the Waikato Regiment were handed to the 1st Armoured Regiment (Waikato) and accepted by it at a ceremonial Colours Parade held in Seddon Park, Hamilton on Anzac Day 1956. These Colours were later laid up in St Andrew's Church, Cambridge in October 1970.\n\nOver the next 50 years, as compulsory military training has come and gone, with successive reorganisations taking place, regimental titles in the RNZAC have frequently changed. In 1959 the 1st Armoured Regiment (Waikato), RNZAC became the Waikato Regiment, RNZAC; the 2nd Armoured Regiment became Queen Alexandra's Regiment RNZAC; and the 4th Armoured Regiment became the Wellington East Coast Regiment, RNZAC. A year later the Waikato, Queen Alexandra's and Wellington East Coast Regiments were reduced to squadrons, together forming a new 1st Armoured Regiment, RNZAC.\n\nIn 1963–64 the 1st Armoured Regiment split, with Queen Alexandra's and Wellington East Coast Squadrons becoming the 1st Armoured Squadron (Queen Alexandra's), and the Waikato Squadron becoming the 2nd Armoured Squadron (Waikato).\nIn 1970 the 1st and 2nd Armoured Squadrons amalgamated to form Queen Alexandra's (Waikato/Wellington East Coast) Squadron, but in 1983 this divided again to form Queen Alexandra's Squadron and the Waikato/Wellington East Coast (Wai/WEC) Squadron.\n\nIn 1990 all New Zealand's armoured units were brought together for the first time in the 1st Armoured Group. Three years later this was re-titled Queen Alexandra's Mounted Rifles (QAMR). The Wai/WEC Squadron formed C Squadron.\n\nSix years of relative stability followed before further changes occurred. In 1999 a wide-ranging review and reorganisation of the TF took place that resulted in the transfer of the Wai/WEC Squadron to the 6th Battalion (Hauraki), Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment (RNZIR) – a Territorial infantry unit based in Tauranga in the Bay of Plenty.\n\nWithin the Haurakis, C and D Companies were absorbed into Wai/WEC Squadron, together being known as the Waikato Squadron, although no official title change took place. The Squadron's recruiting boundaries were reduced to conform to those of the Haurakis, which excluded the Wellington/East Coast region. The years that followed proved a particular challenge to the Squadron, as it fought to retain its existence, separate identity and mounted reconnaissance role.\n\nAt the TF Seminar in August 2002, the Chief of Army, Major General Mateparae, directed that – in the interests of fostering unit pride, respecting tradition, raising morale, strengthening links with local communities and assisting recruitment – Territorial units (and where appropriate sub-units) would revert to their previous titles. To accommodate these changes, Territorial infantry regiments would form battalion groups; thus the Haurakis would become the 6th (Hauraki) Battalion Group in which Wai/WEC Squadron would be a sub-unit.\n\nThe re-adoption of historical titles did not alter battalion group boundaries, so with the loss of the Wellington East Coast region it was inappropriate to maintain the WEC part of the Squadron's title. This provided the opportunity for the Squadron to return to its historical roots and revive the title of the Waikato Mounted Rifles. In early 2003, and strongly supported by the Waikato Mounted Rifles Regimental Association, a formal submission was made to alter the Squadron's title. This was approved by the Chief of Army in September of the same year.\n\nA further submission was to follow. This was for the restoration of the WMR hat and collar badges. After a protracted campaign, this was eventually agreed in April 2006. Based exactly on the pre-1914 originals, it was not however until May 2008 that the new badges were finally presented to Squadron personnel by the then Colonel Commandant RNZAC, Brigadier IH Duthie, CNZM.\nIn 2003, WMR's role was defined as: \"“...to provide general purpose medium reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition in order to support New Zealand Light Armoured Vehicle mounted battalion operations. It is to provide trained personnel to top up and round out Queen Alexandra’s Squadron...”\"\n\nPartly as a result of diminishing resources, and partly due to the low priority accorded the TF within the Army, WMR had by then moved from reconnaissance training on FV101 Scorpion CVR(T) and M113 APCs to modified V8 Land Rovers. By the start of the 21st century some of the latter vehicles were actually older than their crews.\n\nIn 2004 the Government purchased from Automotive Technik (UK) 321 armoured and non-armoured Pinzgauer Light Operational Vehicles (LOV) to replace the Army's ageing Land Rover fleet. It was only in 2007 that the decision was made that WMR would be equipped with the 6 x 6 armoured (and armed) version of LOV, and the following year WMR received sufficient vehicles for one troop. While these vehicles may not perfectly fit the Squadron's role, they have provided the crucial training platform necessary to continue as a reserve reconnaissance squadron.\n\nAs part of a revised policy of integrating non-infantry TF units into the RF (or re-integrating in the case of WMR), in July 2012 the Squadron left the Haurakis and returned to QAMR as the regiment's reserve squadron. WMR's role was now defined as being to provide a reserve cavalry capability to the NZ Army, focusing on a mounted reconnaissance and surveillance skill set.\nWith the re-integration of WMR into QAMR, a formal proposal for the presentation of a Guidon to the Squadron was withdrawn.\n\nBased in Hamilton (pop.141,000) in the Waikato, upper North Island, WMR is normally equipped with the armoured version of the Pinzgauer LOV, armed with either a single 7.62mm FN MAG 58 MG or a 7.62mm FN Minimi MG.\n\nThe Squadron is presently configured for up to 70 personnel in two light reconnaissance troops mounted in LOV, together with a skeleton Squadron headquarters, an administrative section and a forward repair team. In future it is hoped that a small composite troop with LAV crewmen and a dismounted scout section will be added. If deployed, the Squadron's strength would be raised to 102 personnel, with the additional manpower creating a full NZLAV troop and rounding out the two LOV troops and Squadron headquarters.\n\nQAMR's two regular squadrons are equipped with the NZLAV (a version of the General Dynamics Land Systems Canada 8 x 8 LAVIII), armed with the M242 25mm chain gun and two 7.62mm MGs. QAMR is based at Linton Military Camp outside Palmerston North (pop.80,000) in the lower North Island.\n\nAn alliance between the 4th (Waikato) Mounted Rifles and the British 4/7th Royal Dragoons (today the Royal Dragoon Guards) was formed in 1926. This alliance was inherited by QAMR when Wai/WEC Squadron was transferred to the 6th Battalion (Hauraki) RNZIR in 1999.\n\nAn alliance between the RNZAC and the British Royal Tank Regiment (RTR) was formed in 1966. In January 1967, in recognition of this alliance, Her Majesty The Queen (as Captain-General of the RNZAC and Colonel-in-Chief of the RTR) gave her approval for members of the RNZAC to wear the RTR's tank arm badge.\n\nFollowing the successful bid to restore the WMR title to the Squadron, members of the WMR Regimental Association (founded in 1946) amended their Rules in 2004 to admit and welcome past and serving personnel of the Squadron as members of the Association. Some Squadron personnel were also invited to join the Association's committee. Today there are about 140 members, of whom roughly one third are currently serving in WMR.\n\nIn 2007 the first complete history of WMR, ‘Waikato Troopers’, was written and published by Richard Stowers, a military historian and author living in Hamilton. The Foreword to ‘Waikato Troopers’ was written by Lieutenant General Mateparae (then Chief of the Defence Force and now Governor-General of New Zealand). In it he wrote: \"New Zealand has a tradition of military service that, in large part, rests on the service of citizen soldiers in both peace and war. The men of the Waikato Mounted Rifles represent that tradition admirably.\"\n\nThe Government declared 2006 to be the ‘Year of the Veteran’ and established a Community Grants Fund. The WMR Regimental Association successfully applied for funding to enable a number of memorial plaques to be commissioned, dedicated to the memory of former comrades who lost their lives in conflicts overseas. Rather than a single memorial, the Association preferred the idea of placing these plaques in churches and public grounds in settlements and towns in the heart of the Waikato, where WMR still recruits and trains today.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2010 eight plaques were dedicated and unveiled in Waerenga, Te Kauwhata, Te Awamutu (2), Hamilton (2) and Cambridge (2). Beneath the WMR title and badge, the inscription on each plaque reads:\n\"In memory of those from this district [or town/city, as appropriate] who lost their lives on active service and in honour of all those who served.\"\n\nMounted riflemen from the Waikato have served in all the overseas conflicts in which New Zealanders have fought. Casualty figures are incomplete, but recent research has revealed that eight died in South Africa; 74 at Gallipoli; and 42 in Sinai and Palestine. One hundred and fifty-eight were wounded on Gallipoli and in the Middle East.\n\nIt is unfortunately impossible to discover the exact losses of former WMR servicemen during the Second World War, for unlike the First World War, WMR did not send and sustain a formed service squadron overseas for the duration. Aside from the Div Cav, to which all nine mounted rifles regiments then in existence contributed, WMR's soldiers were drafted as reinforcements, mainly to the 4th New Zealand Armoured Brigade, but also to the infantry and some even to the Navy and Air Force. It is known that 29 former WMR soldiers were killed in action with the Div Cav. A further 14 died in other units, but sadly the list is incomplete.\n\nWhile it is not known whether any former WMR soldiers died in either the Korean or Vietnam wars, the only New Zealander to be killed in action in East Timor (in 2000) came from the Waikato and had previously served in the Squadron for several years before transferring to the Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment.\nSince 2000, some 37 members of WMR have served on operational deployments overseas in East Timor, the Solomon Islands, South Korea and Afghanistan, but so far without incurring any further losses.\n\nIn November 2017 several members of WMR participated in a parade during the presentation of a statue dedicated to the horses sent to war with the New Zealand Army.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850269", "title": "Kekexili: Mountain Patrol", "text": "Kekexili: Mountain Patrol\n\nKekexili: Mountain Patrol (; ) is a 2004 Chinese film directed Lu Chuan that depicts the struggle between vigilante rangers and bands of poachers in the remote Tibetan region of Kekexili (Hoh Xil). It was inspired by the documentary \"Balance\" by Peng Hui.\n\nDespite its realistic, detached style, the film evokes the dramatic Western genre in several ways. This includes the portrayal of a masculine, harsh way of life and culture of honour at the frontier of civilization; but also the depiction of a rugged, majestic landscape (captured to great effect by cinematographer Cao Yu) that becomes a star of the film. This characterization is made explicit when the characters profess their love for their homeland, whose very name evokes \"beautiful mountains, beautiful maidens\" to them.\n\nThe film was inspired by the \"Wild Yak Brigade\", a real-life volunteer group that patrolled the Tibetan Plateau during the 1990s, and events that took place between 1993-1996.\n\nThe film opens with the summary execution of a patrol member by poachers and then follows, in quasi-documentary style, reporter Ga Yu (played by Zhang Lei) who is sent from Beijing to investigate. In Kekexili he meets Ritai (played by Tibetan actor Tobgyal, or Duo Bujie (多布杰) in Mandarin) at the Sky burial of the deceased patrol member. Ritai is the leader of the vigilantes who, despite poverty and the lack of any government support, roam the land to protect the endangered Tibetan antelope from extinction. Admitted into the patrol, Ga becomes a sort of embedded journalist in the hunt for the poachers across Kekexili.\n\nThe patrol team hunts down a family of poachers and learns from them the whereabouts of their gunman and leader. But the long journey means they can no longer afford to follow on with the entire team and captured poachers. They release the poachers and send one of the cars, driven by Liu Dong (played by Qi Liang), back with the injured and sick team members to the hospital. He did not have sufficient funds for the medical fee and Ritai tells him to sell some antelope skins to raise the money. Ga questioned the sales of antelope skins and learns from Ritai that they have received no funds from the government for at least a year.\n\nThe two remaining vehicles continue the search but one of them breaks down. Ritai ask them to wait for the other car to return and pick them up, but severe weather forces them to trek their way home. Liu Dong, travelling alone on the way back to join Ritai with his vehicle fully stocked with supplies, is swallowed by dry quicksand when his vehicle gets stuck.\n\nRitai and Ga finally finds the gunman and leader. But, outnumbered and outgunned, Ritai is killed by the poacher. Ga is free to go as he is not a patrol member. Ritai's body is brought back home for a Sky burial.\n\nCaptions at the end of the film state that Ga's reports on the atrocities in Kekexili shook the country. After the authorities initially arrested four patrol members for selling pelts, public pressure had them released, but the patrol is nevertheless disbanded. A year later the Chinese government declared Kekexili a \"national nature preserve\" and established a forestry bureau to protect it. The captions further state that antelope numbers increased to 30,000 at the time of the film’s release.\n\nThe film was shot on location in Kekexili, in both Mandarin and the Tibetan language. Except for the two leads Qi and Tobgyal, all of the cast is made of Tibetan amateur actors. Despite the low budget, development benefited from much corporate support, being funded in majority by Columbia Pictures, Warner Bros. and Canon.\n\nThe harsh conditions took their toll on the film crew with several members falling ill, including director Lu. Also Alex Graf, production manager from Columbia Pictures, was killed on location in a car accident at age 32.\n\nIn order to re-enact the shooting death of a Tibetan Antelope, the filmmakers acquired a Mongolian Gazelle (a second-class protected species under Chinese law) from a nearby reserve, fixed Tibetan antelope antlers to it, and then filmed as the animal was killed. According to lead actor Zhang Lei, the crew was upset about this as some had grown affectionate towards the animal actor. The animal was later buried.\n\n\"Kekexili\" was among the few Mainland Chinese films to win the Golden Horse Best Film Award in Taiwan's Golden Horse Film Festival, in 2004. It also won the Special Jury Prize at the Tokyo International Film Festival in the same year.\n\nThe film had a profound impact in China in bringing attention the region and the plight of its inhabitants and endangered species. This led the Chinese government to offer much-delayed support to the protection of local species, and played a large part in the proposal of the Tibetan antelope as a candidate for official mascot of the 2008 Summer Olympics.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a score of 98% based on 50 reviews, and an average rating of 7.6/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"In a setting both visually stunning and cruel, this Eastern film evokes the epic spirit of old-fashioned Westerns.\" On Metacritic, it has an average score of 77/100 based on 23 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850271", "title": "Shawnee, Colorado", "text": "Shawnee, Colorado\n\nShawnee is an unincorporated community and a U.S. Post Office located in northern Park County, Colorado, United States. Shawnee is situated in the Platte Canyon, along the North Fork South Platte River, west of Bailey on U.S. Highway 285.\n\nThe Shawnee Post Office has the ZIP Code 80475.\n\nShawnee consists largely of a general store and post office, and surrounding houses, on the hillside south of the highway overlooking the river valley.\nA post office called Shawnee has been in operation since 1900. The community takes its name from nearby Shawnee Peak.\n\nShawnee is located at (39.420017,-105.551662).\n"}
{"id": "1850282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850282", "title": "List of snakes of Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "List of snakes of Trinidad and Tobago\n\n<onlyinclude> \n\nForty-seven species of snake have been recorded in Trinidad and Tobago, making the snake population of this area the most diverse in the Caribbean. Forty-four of these snake species are found in Trinidad and twenty-one in Tobago. Many of these species are South American, most of which are present in Venezuela.</onlyinclude> Trinidad and Tobago consists of two main islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and several smaller islands. The Bocas Islands, which lie between Trinidad and Venezuela, in the Bocas del Dragón (\"Dragon's Mouths\"), consist of Chacachacare, Monos, Huevos and Gaspar Grande. Several smaller islands lie off Trinidad, but snakes have been recorded on only one of them, Caledonia Island. Snakes have been recorded on one island off Tobago, Little Tobago. Four species are venomous: two coral snake species (\"Micrurus\" spp.), the fer-de-lance (\"Bothrops atrox\") and the South American bushmaster (\"Lachesis muta\"). The common coral (\"Micrurus fulvius\") is found on at least two of the Bocas Islands: Gaspar Grande and Monos. No venomous snakes inhabit Tobago.\n<onlyinclude>\nLeptotyphlopidae is a family of snakes found in North and South America, Africa, and Asia. All are fossorial and adapted to burrowing, feeding on ants and termites. One species has been recorded in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nTyphlopidae is a family of blind snakes found mostly in the tropical regions of Africa, Asia and the Americas. Three species have been recorded in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\nAniliidae is a monotypic family created for the monotypic genus \"Anilius\", which means that there is only one species in the entire family. This species is \"A. scytale\", found in South America.\n\nBoidae is a family of non-venomous snakes found in America, Africa, Europe, Asia and some Pacific Islands, containing the boas. Four species have been recorded in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nColubridae is a family of snakes comprising about two thirds of all snake species on earth. Colubrid species are found on every continent, except Antarctica. Species from three subfamilies are found in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nXenodontinae is a subfamily of snakes within the family Colubridae that includes mud snakes and New World hognose snakes.\n\nDipsadinae is a subfamily of snakes within the family Colubridae that includes cat-eyed snakes, night snakes, and black-striped snakes.\n\nColubrinae is the largest subfamily of colubrids, and includes rat snakes, king snakes, milk snakes, vine snakes and indigo snakes.\n\nElapidae is a family of venomous snakes found in tropical and subtropical regions around the world, including the Indian Ocean and the Pacific. Two species are found in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nViperidae is a family of venomous snakes found all over the world, except for Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Madagascar, Hawaii and the Arctic Circle. All have relatively long hinged fangs that permit deep penetration and injection of venom. Two species are found in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\n\nAll information is based on Boos (2001) unless otherwise stated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850284", "title": "OPC Data Access", "text": "OPC Data Access\n\nThe OPC Data Access Specification is the first of a group of specifications known as the OPC Classic Specifications.\n\nOPC Data Access is a group of client-server standards that provides specifications for communicating real-time data from data acquisition devices such as PLCs to display and interface devices like Human-Machine Interfaces (HMI), SCADA systems and also ERP/MES systems. The specifications focus on the continuous communication of data.\n\nThe OPC Data Access specification is also known as OPC DA. OPC DA deals only with real-time data and not historical data (for historical data you need to use OPC Historical Data Access, or OPC HDA) or events (for Alarms and Events you need to use OPC Alarms and Events, or OPC AE). There are three attributes associated with OPC DA data. These are\n\nThe OPC DA specification states that these three attributes have to be returned to an OPC client making a request. Therefore, if the data source is not capable of providing a timestamp, for example, the OPC DA server must create a timestamp.\n\nThe OPC Classic specifications are based on the Microsoft COM technology and define a C/C++ interface. A standard Automation wrapper interface is also defined for access from Visual Basic, Delphi and other automation-enabled languages. Several vendors offer .NET toolkits to make the OPC interface accessible in .NET applications.\n\nThe newer OPC .NET (OPC Xi) specification is based on WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) and defines a .NET interface with the functionality of the OPC Classic specifications OPC DA, OPC HDA and OPC AE (Alarms&Events).\n\nThe more recent OPC Unified Architecture allows the same functionality but offers platform independence and optionally complex information modelling capabilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850292", "title": "Mogorjelo", "text": "Mogorjelo\n\nMogorjelo is a Roman \"villa rustica\" that dates from the early fourth century. It is situated on a hill off the Neretva branch, 5 km south of Čapljina, alongside the road to Gabela in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\nThe area is currently protected by the state and is surrounded by a park and a horse farm. The nearby horse riding club was founded 2004 and attracts over 300,000 visitors per year.\n\nAn Italic settler had a private manor complex built for agricultural purposes on the Mogorjelo site in the mid first century CE. He located the building designed for processing agricultural produce (villa rustica fructuaria) on a salient on the hill (the ground plan of the villa lies near the north or main gate of the walls of later date), and the residential building (villa rustica habitatoria) on the south slope exposed to the sun. This building burned down in the third century. In the early fourth century, a state-owned estate was constructed over the ruins, with a villa which now forms the major feature of the complex. During the third century the property probably changed hands to become state-owned. The villa at Mogorjelo supplied the town of Narone, the ruins of which lie in the village of Vid near Metković. The estate was destroyed in a major fire. The latest coins discovered on this site, in a layer of soot, were minted by Honorius in 388, so that it may be assumed that Mogorjelo fell into enemy hands some time between 401 and 403 with the Visigoth invasion of these parts. Life continued in these new circumstances. In the mid fifth century, two basilicas were erected within the ruined perimeter walls in the north-eastern corner of the former villa, first one to the north and immediately thereafter the one to the south. To judge from various conversion works within the buildings, it appears that they were converted to residential use. Some items of Carolingian provenance, dating from the ninth century, have been found in the round tower and adjacent premises. Burials took place all over the site and its surroundings from the period of construction of late antique churches to the nineteenth century.\n"}
{"id": "1850294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850294", "title": "Belgian Third Division B", "text": "Belgian Third Division B\n\nThe Belgian Third Division B was one of the two leagues at the third level of the Belgian football league system, the other one being the Belgian Third Division A. This division existed from the 1952–53 until 2015–16 seasons and was played every year with 18 clubs from 2009. Prior to this, the third level in the Belgian football league system was called Promotion and was divided into four leagues of 16 clubs each and prior to the 1931–32 season, the Promotion was divided into three leagues. Due to restructuring, the Third Division was replaced by Belgian Second Amateur Division which plays as three leagues of 16 clubs each from the 2016–17 season.\n\n — Refused promotion by declining to apply for a remunerative license <br>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850298", "title": "Jan &quot;Ciężki&quot; Tarnowski", "text": "Jan &quot;Ciężki&quot; Tarnowski\n\nJan \"Ciężki\" Tarnowski (c. 1479–1527) was a Polish nobleman (\"szlachcic\").\n\nJan was castellan of Biecz and Sącz, starost of Pilzno. He had one child, Dorota Tarnowska.\n"}
{"id": "1850299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850299", "title": "Southeast High School (Kansas City, Missouri)", "text": "Southeast High School (Kansas City, Missouri)\n\nSoutheast High School is a high school located at 3500 East Meyer Boulevard in Kansas City, Missouri, United States. It is part of the Kansas City, Missouri School District. It was previously located at 3500 East Meyer Boulevard in the 2006-2007 school year. It was in the same building as Manual Career & Technical Center.\n\nSoutheast High School was founded in 1937 at 3500 East Meyer Boulevard, and is currently the African Centered Education Collegium Campus. The new magnet school was established as a means to reconnect African-American students with African traditions. The school mascot is the Scarlet Knight.\n\nSoutheast had been a KCMO public high school from the 1930s until it was reestablished in 1997. The mascot was simply \"the Knights.\" Until the late 1960s, most of the students were white. As more black families moved from the inner city to the more middle-class southeastern section of KC, white families began to flee to the suburbs. As a result, Southeast's student body rapidly changed to majority black by the early 1970s.\n\nFor the 2016-17 school year, Southeast was reopened, with the combination of Southwest Early College Campus, and African Centered College Preparatory Academy.\n\nThe school remains known as \"Southeast High School\", with the African Centered College Preparatory Academy being identified as a school within a school model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850300", "title": "Myron W. Krueger", "text": "Myron W. Krueger\n\nMyron Krueger (born 1942 in Gary, Indiana) is an American computer artist who developed early interactive works. He is also considered to be one of the first generation virtual reality and augmented reality researchers.\n\nWhile earning a Ph.D. in Computer Science at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Krueger worked on a number of early interactive computer artworks. In 1969, he collaborated with Dan Sandin, Jerry Erdman and Richard Venezky on a computer-controlled environment called \"glowflow,\" a computer-controlled light sound environment that responded to the people within it. Krueger went on to develop Metaplay, an integration of visuals, sounds, and responsive techniques into a single framework. In this, the computer was used to create a unique real-time relationship between the participants in the gallery and the artist in another building. In 1971, his \"Psychic space\" used a sensory floor to perceive the participants' movements around the environment. A later project, \"Videoplace,\" was funded by the National Endowment for the arts and a two-way exhibit was shown at the Milwaukee Art Museum in 1975.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1978 M. Krueger performed computer graphics research at the Space Science and Engineering Center of the University of Wisconsin–Madison in exchange for institutional support for his \"Videoplace\" work. In 1978, joined the computer science faculty at the University of Connecticut, where he taught courses in hardware, software, computer graphics and artificial intelligence.\n\n\"Videoplace\" has been exhibited widely in both art and science contexts in the United States and Canada, and it was also shown in Japan. It was included in the SIGGRAPH Art Show in 1985 and 1990. \"Videoplace\" was also the featured exhibit at SIGCHI (Computer-Human Interaction Conference) in 1985 and 1989, and at the 1990 Ars Electronica Festival. Instead of taking the virtual reality track of head-mounted display and data glove (which would come later in the 1980s), he investigated projections onto walls.\n\nKrueger later used the hardware from Videoplace for another piece, \"Small Planet\". In this work, participants are able to fly over a small, computer-generated, 3D planet. Flying is done by holding one's arms out, like a child pretending to fly, and leaning left or right and moving up or down. Small Planet was shown at SIGGRAPH '93, Interaction '97 (Ogaki, Japan), Mediartech '98 (Florence, Italy).\n\nHe envisioned \"the art of interactivity,\" as opposed to \"art that happens to be interactive.\" That is, the idea that exploring the space of interactions between humans and computers was interesting. The focus was on \"the possibilities of interaction itself,\" rather than on an \"art project,\" which happens to have some response to the user. Though his work was somewhat unheralded in mainstream VR thinking for many years as it moved down a path that culminated in the \"goggles 'n gloves\" archetype, his legacy has experienced greater interest as more recent technological approaches (such as CAVE and Powerwall implementations) move toward the unencumbered interaction approaches championed by Krueger.\n\nMyron Krueger. \"Artificial Reality\", Addison-Wesley, 1983. <br>\nMyron Krueger. \"Artificial Reality 2\", Addison-Wesley Professional, 1991. \n\n"}
{"id": "1850301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850301", "title": "Hairston", "text": "Hairston\n\nHairston may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850302", "title": "Cross Road (album)", "text": "Cross Road (album)\n\nCross Road is the first mainstream but second overall greatest hits album by American rock band Bon Jovi, released on October 11, 1994 by Mercury Records. The album contains hits from all previously released albums from their debut, \"Bon Jovi\" (1984) to \"Keep the Faith\" (1992). The album also features two new tracks: the hit singles \"Always\" and \"Someday I'll Be Saturday Night\", as well as a new, updated rendition of \"Livin' on a Prayer\" entitled \"Prayer '94\" available only on the North American versions. \n\n\"Runaway\" was never recorded with the current band, though at that time there were plans to put a \"Runaway '94\" on the album but it was never recorded. The diner located on the cover of the album is the Roadside Diner in Wall Township, NJ, near the crossroads of Route 33 and Route 34.\n\n\"Always\", the album's first single, became Bon Jovi's highest selling single in the United States, spending six months on the top ten of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and was also an international hit which helped the album peak at number one in 13 countries. \"Cross Road\" was the best-selling album of 1994 in the UK. It is Bon Jovi's best selling album in many countries, and continues to sell well. It has sold over 21.5 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling albums of all time.\n\nIn 2005, \"Cross Road\" was re-issued as a 3-disc box set under the name \"Deluxe Sound & Vision\", which included the original remastered album, a bonus CD containing B-sides, rarities and fan favourites, and the \"Live from London\" DVD. The original remastered album was released in 1998. A video, also entitled \"Cross Road\", was simultaneously released, containing 16 of the band's music videos.\n\nIn the United States, the album debuted and peaked at number 8 on the \"Billboard\" 200 the week of November 5, 1994 with 84,000 copies sold, the next week it dropped to number 13 and remained on the chart for fifty seven weeks. It was certified four times platinum by the RIAA on October 15, 1998 denoting shipments of four millions. According to Nielsen SoundScan, the album has sold 4,951,000 copies in the US as of September 2011, including 324,000 copies sold in 2006.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Cross Road\" debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart and spent a total of five non-consecutive weeks atop the chart, later becoming the best-selling album of 1994. The album was certified six times platinum by the BPI. \nThe album topped the charts in several other European countries, including Austria, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Switzerland. In 2007, it was also certified octuple platinum by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry for selling 8 million copies across Europe.\n\nThe album became Bon Jovi's first number-one set in Japan, where it has sold more than 1.1 million copies. It spent two weeks at number one in Australia and in 2010 it was certified eleven-times platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association for shipments exceeding 770,000 copies. The album also debuted at number three on the New Zealand Albums Chart, peaking at number one in its second week and later being certified sectuple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand.\n\nThe album itself won \"Metal Edge\" magazine's 1994 Readers' Choice Awards for \"Album of the Year\" and \"Best Hits or Compilation Album\". Its namesake home video was voted \"Best Video Cassette,\" and the single \"Always\" was voted \"Song of the Year\" and \"Best Video Clip\".\n\nThe song \"Good Guys Don't Always Wear White\" is featured in the movie \"The Cowboy Way\". Although Bon Jovi also released a music video to the song it was never released as a single.\n\nCredits adapted from \"Cross Road\"'s liner notes.\n\nBon Jovi\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "1850304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850304", "title": "Royal New Zealand Armoured Corps", "text": "Royal New Zealand Armoured Corps\n\nThe Royal New Zealand Armoured Corps (RNZAC) is the overall umbrella grouping of Regular Force and Territorial Force units equipped with armoured vehicles in the New Zealand Army. The corps was formed in 1942 as the New Zealand Armoured Corps, before being given the \"Royal\" prefix in 1947. The RNZAC is second in seniority of corps within the New Zealand Army.\n\nThe Divisional Cavalry Regiment and the 4th Armoured Brigade were among the foremost NZ armoured units during World War II, though at home the 1st Army Tank Brigade was also established.\n\nAlthough the RNZAC did not deploy one of its own units to the Vietnam War, from 1965-1971 RNZAC personnel served within other New Zealand and Australian units including artillery, infantry, command and support, and logistics. Several members served as tank crew with the 3rd Cavalry Regiment of the Royal Australian Armoured Corps, and 1st Squadron, 4th Cavalry Regiment (U.S Army.) Two RNZAC pilots served with the Australian 161st (Independent) Reconnaissance Flight.\n\nDuring the 1990s, corps personnel contributed to the deployment of a mechanized infantry company group to Bosnia-Hercegovina for UNPROFOR as part of the NZDF Operation Radian.\n\nAmong the surviving Territorial Force units at the end of the 20th Century was the Wai/WEC Squadron, later the Waikato Mounted Rifles in Hamilton, and the fast-diminishing New Zealand Scots, also at squadron size technically but actually dwindling into single figures, in the South Island.\n\nRNZAC personnel serve in:\n\nRegular Force\n\nTerritorial Force\n\nThe RNZAC is primarily equipped with two types of vehicle:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850305", "title": "Nyssa Raatko", "text": "Nyssa Raatko\n\nNyssa Raatko (), also known as Nyssa al Ghul, is a fictional character, a supervillainess in DC Comics. Nyssa Raatko was created by Greg Rucka and Klaus Janson for the Batman series of comic books. She is an enemy of Batman. She is the daughter of Ra's al Ghul and the half-sister of Talia al Ghul.\n\nNyssa made her first live-action appearance as a recurring character on the television series \"Arrow\" starting in the second season, played by Katrina Law. She also appeared in the final season of \"Gotham\", portrayed by Jaime Murray.\n\nIn \"Batman: Death and the Maidens\", it is revealed that Ra's al Ghul had a love child born during his travels in Russia in the 18th century named Nyssa. Enamored by the romantic stories that her mother told her about Ra's as a child, Nyssa sets out to find Ra's and eventually locates him at his headquarters in North Africa.\n\nImpressed by her beauty, her warrior skills, and the fact that she was able to locate him, he promotes her to a position similar to that later held by her half-sister, Talia. As a right hand associate, she accompanies him during his adventures. Ra's is so impressed with her abilities, he even allows Nyssa to use his Lazarus Pits. Like her sister Talia, Nyssa eventually becomes disenchanted with Ra's genocidal plans to \"cleanse the Earth\", and disassociates herself from her father sometime in the early 20th century. Ra's reluctantly approves this, believing that she will return to him and that she or her children will become his future heirs. To his disappointment, Nyssa refuses to give herself or her family to him, causing him to disown her permanently. He does however allow her to keep a Lazarus Pit for herself and, much to his surprise, she finds a way to reuse it, allowing her to survive until modern times.\n\nDuring World War II, Nyssa and her family are quickly sent to a concentration camp, where Nyssa's entire family dies and she is rendered infertile by very Mengele-style experiments. At one point she begs Ra's for help, but he refuses her, stating that, while he does not agree with Hitler's ideological agenda, his cause could only be aided by the millions who will be exterminated by Hitler's scheme.\n\nBroken by her horrifying experiences during this time, and enraged that Ra's has abandoned her and her family to die at the hands of the Nazis, Nyssa is finally motivated to act when her great-grandsonher last living descendant - is killed. She plots to by befriending, kidnapping, and brainwashing Talia and using her to kill Ra's. To this end, she captures Talia and, using a Lazarus Pit, kills and resurrects her in rapid succession, leaving Talia virtually broken from the trauma of dying again and again in so short a time. Rendered apathetic by her time in the camp, unable to feel anything, Nyssa then attempts to destroy all hope and optimism in the world by assassinating Superman with Kryptonite bullets she steals from the Batcave, hoping that, by uniting the world in one moment of tragedy, she will manage to rouse herself once more.\n\nWhile Batman is successful in preventing the assassination of Superman, he is unable to stop Ra's from being killed by Nyssa. This in turn is part of a greater plan by Ra's to ensure that his daughters, both initially dissatisfied with his plans, will realize that he is right, and that they would come to accept their destinies as his heirs. Realizing and accepting this, both Nyssa and Talia become the heads of the League of Assassins. Talia disavows her love for Bruce Wayne, and both half-sisters declare Batman to be their enemy, Nyssa promising that she will not fail her father as Batman departs.\n\nThe origins of the Lazarus Pit were accidentally discovered by Ra's al Ghul while digging a pit. The Lazarus pit can grant restorative properties that can heal injuries and even grant immortality. Nyssa is in possession of one of the world's last Lazarus Pits, which has granted her longevity and the ability to heal her wounds; she survives The Holocaust thanks to its powers. She also found the ability to use the pit multiple times. She is also extremely wealthy, especially since she assumes control of Ra's' organization and joins forces with Talia. Like her father and half-sister, she knows Batman's secret identity and the location of the Batcave.\n\nIn the Batcave, a Lazarus Pit was created by Batman after he learned that the Pits were necessary to maintain the stability of the world. A third seems to exist high in the Himalayas, used by Black Adam to revive Isis. A fourth Lazarus Pit was revealed to exist in the Australian outback; and a fifth in Tibet. In the Arrowverse, Nyssa uses the pit to bring back Sara Lance from the dead.\n\nDuring \"Infinite Crisis\", Nyssa and her sister connive to use Talia's membership in Luthor's Secret Society of Super Villains in order to take over the planet. Nyssa tries to recruit Batgirl (as Cassandra Cain) to stand at her side as \"The One Who Is All\". She attempts to explain why she is working with the villains of the Society to Batgirl:\n\nCassandra refuses, and, along with Mr. Freeze, escapes from Nyssa's grasp.\n\nIn \"One Year Later\", Nyssa is seen in Northern Africa, planning an unknown plot with two terrorists. As she gets into her car to leave, it explodes. In the following issue, Lady Shiva reports that Nyssa Raatko is dead where she was probably killed by the League of Assassins.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850313", "title": "Jean-François Gerbillon", "text": "Jean-François Gerbillon\n\nJean-François Gerbillon (4 June 1654, Verdun, France – 27 March 1707, Peking, China) was a French missionary who worked in China.\n\nHe entered the Society of Jesus, 5 Oct, 1670, and after completing the usual course of study taught grammar and humanities for seven years. His long-cherished desire to labor in the missions of the East was gratified in 1685, when he joined the group of Jesuits who had been chosen to found the French mission in China. For the first leg of the trip, he was attached to the embassy of the Chevalier de Chaumont to Siam, and was accompanied by a group of Jesuit mathematicians (Jean de Fontaney (1643–1710), Joachim Bouvet (1656–1730), Louis Le Comte (1655–1728), Guy Tachard (1648–1712) and Claude de Visdelou (1656–1737)). Tachard would remain in Siam besides King Narai, but the others would reach China in 1687.\nUpon their arrival in Beijing they were received by the Kangxi Emperor who was favorably impressed by them and retained Gerbillion and Joachim Bouvet at the court. This famous monarch realized the value of the services which the fathers could render to him owing to their scientific attainments, and they on their part were glad in this way to win his favour and gain prestige in order to further the interests of the infant mission.\n\nAs soon as they had learned the language of the country, Gerbillion with Thomas Pereira, one of his companions, was sent as interpreter to Nerchinsk with the ambassadors commissioned to treat with the Russians regarding the boundaries of the two empires, which were determined in the Treaty of Nerchinsk (1689). This was but the beginning of his travels, during which he was often attached to the suite of the emperor. He made eight different journeys into \"Tartary\" (i.e., Manchuria and Mongolia). On one of these he was an eyewitness to the campaign in which Kangxi defeated the Oirats. On his last journey he accompanied the three commissioners who regulated public affairs and established new laws among the Khalkha Mongols, who had yielded allegiance to the emperor. He availed himself of this opportunity to determine the latitude and longitude of a number of places in what is today the Northeastern China and adjacent areas of Russia and Mongolia.\n\nGerbillion was for a time in charge of the French college in Beijing, and afterwards became superior-general of the mission. He enjoyed the special friendship and esteem of the emperor, who had a high opinion of his ability and frequently availed himself of his scientific and diplomatic services. He was withal a zealous missionary, and in 1692 obtained an edict granting the free exercise of the Christian religion. After the emperor's recovery from a fever, during which he was attended by Gerbillion and Bouvet, he showed his gratitude by bestowing on them a site for a chapel and residence.\n\nGerbillion was a skilled linguist. He was the author of several works on mathematics, and wrote an account of his travels in Tatary. These relations are valuable for their accurate account of the typography of the country, the customs of the people, and also for the details of life of the missionaries at the court. Additionally, his writings, which documented foreign fauna, were important for studies in natural history, and even veterinary medicine.\n\n\"Eléments de Géométrie\" (1689), \"Géométrie pratique et théoretique\" (1690), \"Eléments de philosophie\". \"Relations du huit Voyages dans la Grande Tartarie\" (Un autre nom — \"Relations de huit voyages en Tartarie faits par ordre de l'empereur de Chine\", 1688–98), \"Observations historiques sur la grande Tartarie\". A work entitled \"Elementa Linguæ Tartaricæ\" is also attributed to him.\n"}
{"id": "1850316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850316", "title": "Seaton, Ontario", "text": "Seaton, Ontario\n\nSeaton will be a community in north Pickering in Ontario, Canada. Seaton is bounded by West Duffins Creek to the west, Sideline 16 to the east, Highway 7 to the north, and the CP Rail line to the south; it abuts the communities of Green River, Whitevale, and Brougham. It has been devised by the provincial government since the 1970s. By the time of full build-out, the community is expected to include a population of up to 70,000 people and 35,000 jobs.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the provincial government expropriated and purchased approximately 8,100 hectares of land in north Pickering. These lands, known as the North Pickering Land Assembly, were acquired to develop a community of approximately 250,000. This community would serve the proposed federal international airport, which was to be located just to the north. To date, not only has an airport not been constructed, but there is no official decision regarding whether it is required.\n\nThe Seaton lands (originally known as Cedarwood), have received much attention from local residents and environmentalists. It was a prominent component of the \"North Pickering Land Exchange\" of November 2003 enacted by the Liberal provincial government, in which developers received land in Seaton in exchange for lands owned by those developers on the Oak Ridges Moraine, primarily in Richmond Hill and Uxbridge. Development of the area has begun south of Taunton Road.\n\nSimilar to Cornell, Ontario, Seaton will have planned communities built within it. Pickering has named these as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850317", "title": "Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece", "text": "Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece\n\nPavlos, Crown Prince of Greece, RE (; born 20 May 1967) is the eldest son and second child of Constantine II, the last King of Greece from 1964 to 1973 and his wife, Anne-Marie of Denmark. Pavlos was heir apparent to the throne of Greece and was its crown prince from birth, remaining so during his father's reign until the monarchy's abolition. As a male-line descendant of Christian IX of Denmark, he is also a Danish prince.\n\nPavlos was born on 20 May 1967 at Tatoi Palace in Athens, to King Constantine II and Queen Anne Marie. His mother is the youngest sister of Queen Margrethe II of Denmark and his father is a brother of Queen Sophia of Spain. His maternal grandparents were King Frederick IX of Denmark and his wife Princess Ingrid of Sweden.\n\nHe displaced his older sister, Alexia, born in 1965, as heir to the throne, Greece's order of succession adhering to male-preference primogeniture.\n\nPavlos was born into a turbulent era in Greek politics. His father, King Constantine II, ascended to the throne on 6 March 1964, aged 23, following the death of his father, King Paul. His mother, the 20-year-old Queen Anne-Marie, gave birth to Pavlos barely a month after the \"coup d'état\" which ended democratic rule in Greece over the King's objections on 21 April 1967, ushering in the \"Regime of the Colonels\", led by Georgios Papadopoulos. In December of that year, King Constantine attempted a counter-coup, but could not rally sufficient military support. Pursued by supporters of the \"junta\", the King fled with his wife, children, mother and sister to Rome. From Rome they went to Copenhagen, and lived with Queen Anne-Marie's mother, Queen Ingrid.\n\nDuring the years 1967–1973, Greece remained officially a monarchy, with a regency appointed while the King lived in exile. On 1 June 1973, Constantine II was declared deposed and Georgios Papadopoulos became the self-appointed President of Greece.\n\nOn 17 November 1974, the 1974 Greek legislative election was held, resulting in a victory for Constantine Karamanlis and his New Democracy party. Less than a month later, on 8 December, the Greek plebiscite of 1974 confirmed a referendum of the previous year: the majority of Greek voters preferred a republican constitution (69%) to restoration of the monarchy (31%).\n\nConstantine II accepted that his reign was at an end. He and Anne Marie had been living with their family in London for several years. Pavlos' youngest siblings were born in London, Theodora in 1983 and Philippos in 1986.\n\nPavlos was educated in London at the Hellenic College of London, founded by his parents. He attended the Armand Hammer United World College of the American West, Montezuma, New Mexico, USA, from 1984 to 1986. After training at the British Army's Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, he was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards in 1987 on a three-year short service commission. He was promoted to lieutenant in April 1989, and relinquished his commission in April 1990. In 1993 he completed his BA at Georgetown University School of Foreign Service and later while sharing a house in Washington, DC, he and his cousin, Felipe VI of Spain, then Prince of Asturias, attended Georgetown University where each obtained a Master of Science in Foreign Service in 1995.\n\nAs an adult he has lived in New York City and London, working as an investment consultant. He is the co-founder of Ortelius Advisors, an activist hedge fund. He is an experienced bluewater yachtsman and crews on the multi-record-breaking monohull \"Mari-Cha IV\" owned by businessman and father-in-law, Robert W. Miller.\n\nPavlos married British-born heiress Marie-Chantal Miller, whom he had met at a party three years earlier in New Orleans, on 1 July 1995. The Greek Orthodox rite wedding at St Sophia's Cathedral, London drew a rare modern panoply of royalty, but the ceremony proved to be legally invalid and had eventually to be repeated civilly (not normally required in the UK) in Chelsea because of an obscure law requiring that marriages in England be conducted in English.\n\nAfter their marriage, the couple took up residence in Greenwich, Connecticut, the job that Pavlos obtained with the Charles R. Weber ship-broking company being headquartered there. Later, he went to work at a New York City firm as an investment portfolio manager, before relocation to London for their children's education in 2004.\n\nThe couple have five children: Maria-Olympia (b. 1996), Constantine-Alexios (b. 1998), Achileas-Andreas (b. 2000), Prince Odysseas-Kimon (b. 2004), and Prince Aristidis-Stavros (b. 2008). \n\nFrom birth, Pavlos was the heir apparent to the throne of Greece and as such he was referred to as the Crown Prince of Greece with the style of \"Royal Highness\". Following the deposition of the Greek monarchy in 1973, these titles and styles are no longer legally recognised by the government of the Hellenic Republic. Through his male-line descent from Christian IX of Denmark, he is also a Danish prince with the style of \"Highness\".\n\n\n\nPavlos was a direct descendant of three reigning sovereign monarchs at birth. He was the eldest son of the King of Greece, grandson of the King of Denmark and great-grandson of the King of Sweden, all living and enthroned when he was born. His paternal aunt, Queen Sofía of Spain, was Queen Consort of Spain. His maternal aunt, Margrethe II of Denmark, is the reigning Queen of Denmark.\n\nBy male-line descent, he is a member of the Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg branch of the House of Oldenburg.\n\nPavlos is a scion multiple times of the \"Grandparents of Europe\", due to royal intermarriage. As a result, he descends from Christian IX of Denmark through three of his children; in the male line through George I of Greece, in the female line through Frederick VIII of Denmark and through King Christian's daughter Princess Thyra, Duchess of Cumberland. He also descends thrice from Queen Victoria: once through her third son Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, and twice through her eldest daughter Victoria, Princess Royal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850326", "title": "Grant, Colorado", "text": "Grant, Colorado\n\nGrant is an unincorporated community and a U.S. Post Office in Park County, Colorado, United States. The community is located in foothills of the Front Range in the Platte Canyon, in the upper valley of the North Fork South Platte River, approximately 6 miles (10 km) east of Kenosha Pass. It sits along U.S. Highway 285 approximately 40 miles (64 km) southwest of Denver. It consists largely of a retired general store, post office, and surrounding houses and trailers along the south side of the highway and along the north side of the river. The Grant Post Office has the ZIP Code 80448. Grant is located at the mouth of Geneva Creek where it descends southward from the Front Range. County Road 62 follows the creek northward to Guanella Pass, leading to Georgetown in the canyon of Clear Creek.\n\nGrant is located at (39.459788,-105.662556).\n"}
{"id": "1850331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850331", "title": "Sheriff principal", "text": "Sheriff principal\n\nIn Scotland a sheriff principal (\"pl\". sheriffs principal) is a judge in charge of a sheriffdom with judicial, quasi-judicial, and administrative responsibilities. Sheriffs principal have been part of the judiciary of Scotland since the 11th century. Sheriffs principal were originally appointed by the Monarch of Scotland, and evolved into a heritable jurisdiction before appointment was again vested in the Crown and the Monarch of the United Kingdom following the passage of the Heritable Jurisdictions (Scotland) Act 1746.\n\nUnder the Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1971 (as amended), each sheriff principal is appointed by the Monarch of the United Kingdom on the advice of the First Minister of Scotland, who is advised by the Judicial Appointments Board for Scotland. As of May 2017 there were six sheriffs principal, each of whom has responsibility not only as a judge, but for the administration of justice in their respective sheriffdoms. Sheriffs principal have to ensure the effective running of the sheriff courts and justice of the peace courts within their jurisdiction. Following the passage of both the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 and the Judiciary and Courts (Scotland) Act 2008, sheriffs principal are subject to the authority and direction of the Lord President of the Court of Session as Head of the Judiciary of Scotland.\n\nSheriffs principal hold additional judicial offices, including the Sheriff Principal of Lothian and Borders who is Sheriff in Chancery, and President of the Sheriff Personal Injury Court. All of the sheriffs principal are Appeal Sheriffs and \"ex officio\" members of the Sheriff Appeal Court.\n\nOutside their judicial office, each sheriff principal holds several other offices \"ex officio\", including Commissioner of Northern Lighthouses and \"General Commissioner of Income Tax\", with each sheriff principal having a ceremonial role in their respective sheriffdom that means they outrank all but members of the royal family and the Lord Lieutenant.\n\nWhen researching the history of the sheriffs principal there is much confusion over the use of different names to refer sheriffs in Scotland. Sheriffs principal are those sheriffs who have held office over a sheriffdom, whether through inheritance or through direct appointment by the Crown. Thus, hereditary sheriff (before 1746) and sheriff-depute (after 1746) are the precursors to the modern office of sheriff principal. The precursor to the modern office of sheriff was historically referred to as sheriff substitute.\n\nDavid I, King of Scots from 1124 to 1153, appointed sheriffs as administrators and judges throughout Scotland. Such officers eventually became hereditary with a \"sheriff-depute\" appointed to undertake the actual judicial work of the office. It is from these sheriffs that the modern day office of sheriffs principal derives, with a final settlement on the name by the Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1971. The modern day office of sheriff derives from the sheriffs-substitute that were appointed by the sheriffs-depute (now sheriffs principal.)\n\nIn 1540 an Act of the Parliament of Scotland mandated that sheriffs principal (along with bailies and stewards) should \"hold all their three head courts by themselves in proper person, unless they have a just and lawful excuse\". However, in the 16th Century it appears that sheriffs-depute held office entirely at the will of the sheriffs principal, and undertook the vast majority of judicial work.\n\nIn the 17th Century, under the reign of Charles II, the number of heritable sheriffs principal increased in recognition of his restoration to the throne. By 1700, 21 of the 33 sheriffs principal were hereditary.\n\nIn the 18th Century, the office of hereditary sheriff principal was abolished by the Heritable Jurisdictions (Scotland) Act 1746, with the sheriffs-depute assuming the role and office of sheriff principal.\n\nUntil about the middle of the 19th century there were 30 sheriffs principal. Of those sheriffs principal two (Glasgow and Edinburgh) were effectively full-time appointments while the remainder were part-time appointments filled by senior advocates, who are members of the Faculty of Advocates. Over the years there was a gradual amalgamation of sheriffdoms, with a consequential diminution in the number of sheriffs principal.\n\nIn the 20th Century the sheriff principal had appellate jurisdiction over summary causes in civil cases, with only cases that went to a full proof (hearing) having a right of appeal to both the sheriff principal and the Court of Session.\n\nIn 1971, the Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1971 confirmed the naming of sheriffs principal (affirming that the office of sheriff depute should be known as sheriff principal), and that sheriffs-substitute should be known as sheriff, stating:\n\nThe number of sheriffdoms was reduced to six in 1975 by the Sheriffdoms Reorganisation Order 1974, with all the prior sheriffdoms abolished and replaced by the following sheriffdoms:\nwith each sheriffdom presided over by a single sheriff principal.\n\nThe sheriffdom boundaries were amended and the sheriffdoms redescribed by the Sheriffdoms (Alteration of Boundaries) Order 1996, which replaced the 1974 Order. The only change to the boundaries was to move an area around Chryston from the sheriffdom of Glasgow and Strathkelvin to the sheriffdom of South Strathclyde, Dumfries and Galloway.\n\nThe work of a sheriff principal is partly judicial and partly administrative, consisting broadly of the following:\n\nA sheriff principal sometimes sits in criminal courts or conducts major fatal accident inquiries. Following the passage and commencement of the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 by the Scottish Parliament sheriffs principal have sat ex officio as appeal sheriffs in the Sheriff Appeal Court with jurisdiction over both civil and criminal appeals.\n\nIn terms of the Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1971, as reaffirmed by the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014, sheriffs principal are charged with a number of duties in respect of the courts for which they are responsible, including in particular a duty “to secure the speedy and efficient disposal of business in the sheriff courts of that sheriffdom”.\n\nIn terms of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 all of the sheriffs principal are Commissioners of Northern Lighthouses and serve on the Northern Lighthouse Board.\n\nThe Sheriff Principal of Lothian and Borders is \"Sheriff of Chancery\" (disposes of petitions for rights of succession to land and intestate estates; see Chancery (Scotland)).\n\nA sheriff principal might serve as member of the Scottish Civil Justice Council, the Advisory Council on Messengers-at-Arms and Sheriff Officers, the Criminal Justice Forum, the Security Service Tribunal, the Intelligence Services Tribunal, and various other bodies.\n\nBy virtue of an Order of Precedence established by King Edward VII a sheriff principal, in his or her own sheriffdom, ranks in precedence immediately after the Royal family. For that reason sheriffs principal are from time to time expected, and are occasionally commanded, to be present at Royal and other ceremonial functions within their sheriffdoms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850334", "title": "Eighth Doctor Adventures", "text": "Eighth Doctor Adventures\n\nThe Eighth Doctor Adventures (sometimes abbreviated as EDA or referred to as the EDAs) are a series of spin off novels based on the long running BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\" and published under the BBC Books imprint. 73 books were published overall.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1997, Virgin Publishing had been producing a successful series of spin off novels under the \"New Adventures\" and \"Missing Adventures\" ranges. However, following the \"Doctor Who\" television movie which introduced the Eighth Doctor in 1996, the BBC did not renew Virgin Publishing's license to continue publishing \"Doctor Who\" material, instead opting to publish their own range. Virgin's last \"New Adventures\" novel, \"The Dying Days\" by Lance Parkin, featured the Eighth Doctor. \n\nThe first BBC Books release was a novelisation of the television movie (considered a standalone work by some), but the run of original \"Eighth Doctor Adventures\" began in 1997 with \"The Eight Doctors\" by Terrance Dicks and continued until 2005. It is unclear if the BBC line was originally intended to be a continuation of the continuity established in the \"New Adventures\". However, as many of the writers for the \"Eighth Doctor Adventures\" had also written for the Virgin series, many elements from the \"New Adventures\" began to appear in both the EDAs and the \"Past Doctor Adventures\" (which replaced the \"Missing Adventures\"), and such continuity has been broadly maintained.\n\nVirgin had distinguished the \"New\" and \"Missing Adventures\" with different cover designs. BBC Books, however, did not differentiate their novels featuring the current and past Doctors in this way, although they were listed separately within the books. Fans continued to distinguish the ongoing story of the Eighth Doctor from the more stand-alone adventures of past Doctors, although some plot elements did cross over both ranges.\n\nWith the revival of the television series, BBC Books ceased the regular \"Eighth Doctor Adventures\" in favour of a new range (the \"New Series Adventures\"), featuring characters from the new series. One further novel featuring the Eighth Doctor (\"Fear Itself\") was published under the Past Doctor Adventures line before it too ceased publication.\n\nIn addition to the \"Eighth Doctor Adventures\" and the Past Doctor Adventures, the BBC also published three short story collections under the title of Short Trips which feature all eight (at the time of publication) Doctors. These were also inherited from Virgin, a version of their Decalog short story collections, and when the BBC ceased publishing them, a licence to continue was sought by Big Finish Productions, who published some for a while. They now continue to publish their own range of Short Trips collections as audios.\n\nThese novels all feature the Eighth Doctor, as portrayed in the 1996 television movie by Paul McGann.\n\nFollowing the events of the 1996 \"Doctor Who\" television movie, the Eighth Doctor picks up a British teenager from 1997, Samantha \"Sam\" Jones, and later a disaffected drifter in his late twenties named Fitz Kreiner from 1963. During their adventures, the threesome tangle with the Faction Paradox, a renegade voodoo cult of time travellers who believed in creating time paradoxes and altering history. They also meet the Doctor's old friend Iris Wildthyme, a Time Lady from Gallifrey who travels in a TARDIS shaped like a London double-decker bus. \n\nWhen Sam leaves the TARDIS, the Doctor and Fitz are joined by Compassion, a member of a once-human race called the Remote who slowly begins a conversion process into a living TARDIS. The Time Lords, led by his old companion Romana, now President of the High Council, anxious to get their hands on this new TARDIS technology, pursue the Doctor, who loses his own TARDIS and continues to travel using Compassion. The conflict with Faction Paradox comes to a climax on Gallifrey, where the Doctor discovers his TARDIS in orbit around the planet, transformed into a giant structure of living bone by the Faction. The Doctor, faced with an impossible decision, destroys the Faction and causes major damage to the timeline by apparently wiping his homeworld and his people from history. \n\nMuch later, it is revealed that four Time Lords had survived the catastrophe: The Doctor, the Master, Iris Wildthyme and Marnal.\n\nMeanwhile, having rescued the Doctor from near-death, Compassion leaves the now-amnesiac Doctor on Earth in the late 19th century while she drops Fitz off in 2001 to await the long process of the Doctor's — and the now-embryonic TARDIS's — recovery. She then departs for parts unknown. The Doctor spends the next hundred years travelling the world and living through its history, eventually adopting Miranda, a young girl with two hearts. Miranda leaves the Doctor to face her own destiny in the far future, and the Doctor goes on to meet Fitz as arranged, thanks to a note Compassion slipped into his pocket a century before. Following that, the two are joined by Anji Kapoor, a London stock trader and the three leave Earth in the TARDIS.\n\nMuch later, while on Earth in the eighteenth century, the Doctor, Fitz and Anji encounter Sabbath, a Secret Service operative who is aware of time travel and becomes the Doctor's personal nemesis. The Doctor loses his second heart, which was slowly killing him as it was his only link to his now-forgotten homeworld. Sabbath takes the heart and implants it in his own body, tying him and the Doctor together. Through several more adventures, the Doctor and his companions encounter Sabbath again and Trix MacMillan stows away aboard the TARDIS.\n\nSabbath subsequently loses the Doctor's time-sensitive heart and the Doctor grows a new one. The Doctor also begins to recover fragments of his memory, and discovers that Sabbath is working for a group called the Council of Eight. The Council wants to collapse the alternate timelines of the multiverse into one, manageable timeline. To them, the Doctor is a rogue element that needs to be controlled or eliminated. They also begin to eliminate his previous companions from time. Trix comes out of hiding, joining the crew, and Anji leaves the TARDIS. Sabbath eventually realises that the Council is not human and turns on his masters. Miranda, now a grown woman with a daughter, also returns to help her adopted father defeat the Council, but both she and Sabbath die in the process.\n\nEventually, the Doctor returns to Earth in 2005 and discovers that another Time Lord, Marnal, has also survived the destruction of Gallifrey. Marnal, who also claims to be the original owner of the Doctor's TARDIS, blames the Doctor for the cataclysm, and takes him and the TARDIS captive while the insectoid alien Vore invade the Earth. After a cold fusion explosion guts the interior of the TARDIS, the Doctor discovers that K-9 Mark II had been aboard all along, with orders from Lady President Romana of Gallifrey to kill him. However, K-9 pauses once it scans the Doctor's mind and discovers the reason why the Doctor has lost his memory. \n\nJust prior to destroying Gallifrey, the Doctor (with Compassion's help) downloaded the contents of the Gallifreyan Matrix — the massive computer network containing the mental traces of every Time Lord living and dead — into his brain, with his own memories suppressed to make room for the data. Gallifrey had not actually been erased from history, but an event horizon in relative time prevented anyone from Gallifrey's past to travel beyond Gallifrey's destruction, and vice versa. Both the planet and the Time Lords can be restored, along with the Doctor's memory, if a sufficiently sophisticated computer could be found to reconstruct them. Before that can be done, however, there is the problem of the Vore to contend with.\n\nAt novel's end, the Doctor, Trix and Fitz are set to confront the Vore invasion force. The restoration of Gallifrey, in time for its second destruction in the Time War prior to the events of the 2005 series has yet to be chronicled. \n\nThe \"Eighth Doctor Adventures\" line ends with \"The Gallifrey Chronicles\". Although one further novel featuring the Eighth Doctor (\"Fear Itself\" by Nick Wallace) was published under the Past Doctor Adventures line before BBC Books decided to retire the PDAs as well, that book takes place prior to \"Timeless\". It remains to be seen if the events of \"The Gallifrey Chronicles\" will be followed up by any future novel.\n\nThe Doctor has a series of new companions, who never appeared in the television programme. They are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850335", "title": "Scarff ring", "text": "Scarff ring\n\nThe Scarff ring was a type of machine gun mounting developed during the First World War by Warrant Officer (Gunner) F. W. Scarff of the Admiralty Air Department for use on two-seater aircraft. The mount incorporated bungee cord suspension in elevation to compensate for the weight of the gun, and allowed an airgunner in an open cockpit to swivel and elevate his weapon (a Lewis machine gun) quickly, and easily fire in any direction. Later models permitted the fitting of two Lewis guns; while this doubled the firepower available, operation of the paired guns was more cumbersome, and required considerable strength from the gunner, especially at altitude, so that many gunners preferred the original single gun - and this became the postwar standard. In either case, the mounting was simple and rugged, and gave its operator an excellent field of fire. It was widely adapted and copied for other airforces.\n\nAs well as becoming a standard fitting in the British forces during the First World War, the Scarff ring was used in the postwar Royal Air Force for many years. Perhaps the last British aircraft to use the mounting was the Supermarine Walrus amphibian prototype.\n\nScarff was also involved in the development of the Scarff-Dibovsky synchronization gear.\n\nAlthough it was a seemingly simple device, later attempts to emulate the Scarff ring as a mounting for the dorsal Vickers K in the World War II Handley Page Hampden bomber were failures. Handley Page had designed a carriage with ball-bearing wheels running on a track around the cockpit. Vibration when firing shook the balls out, jamming the mounting.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Germans developed a similar system called the \"Drehkranz\" D 30 (German: \"turntable\") which was used on a number of German aircraft, most notably the Junkers Ju 52.\n\nIn British use the Scarff ring was replaced in the 1930s by specialised power-operated turrets such as those made by Boulton Paul or Nash & Thompson, aircraft air speeds having by then risen to the point where a manually-operated gun was infeasible.\n"}
{"id": "1850336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850336", "title": "Hosei University", "text": "Hosei University\n\nThe university originated in a school of law, Tōkyō Hōgakusha (, i.e. Tokyo association of law), established in 1880, and the following year renamed Tōkyō Hōgakkō (, i.e. Tokyo school of law). This was from 1883 headed by Dr. Gustave Boissonade, and was heavily influenced by the French legal tradition. It merged in 1889 with a school of French studies, Tōkyō Futsugakkō (, i.e. Tokyo French school), that had been founded three years earlier. It adopted the name Hosei University (, \"Hōsei daigaku\", i.e. Tokyo university of law and politics) in 1903 and was recognized as a private university in 1920.\n\nOther notable figures involved in its foundation include Dr. Masaaki Tomii, and Dr. Ume Kenjirō, \"Father of the Japanese Civil Code\".\n\nIn addition, Hosei University belongs to Tokyo Big6 Baseball League. The league is one of the most traditional college sports leagues in Japan. \nHosei University is popular for high school students. Hosei University got 2nd in the number of applicants among Japanese universities in 2017 and 2018 (122,499). Hosei University ranked 100 at Global Executives 2013 top 100 by The Times Higher Education.\n\nHosei has three main campuses, which it calls Ichigaya, Koganei, and Tama. The Ichigaya campus is halfway between Ichigaya and Iidabashi stations in central Tokyo; its 26-story Boissonade Tower, completed in 2000, can be seen from either station. The campus has a city flavour but is still somewhat isolated from central Tokyo; the nearby presence of Yasukuni Shrine also contributes.\n\nSciences are studied at the Koganei campus to the west of Tokyo, and other subjects are split between Tama (located in Machida, which is near Hachiōji), and Ichigaya.\n\n\n\n\nWith what they taught (or teach), which may be different from what they are more widely known for.\nThe university's baseball team plays as one of the Tokyo Big6 Baseball League.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850339", "title": "Commander-in-Chief's Trophy", "text": "Commander-in-Chief's Trophy\n\nThe Commander-in-Chief's Trophy is awarded to each season's winner of the American college football series among the teams of the U.S. Military Academy (Army Black Knights), the U.S. Naval Academy (Navy Midshipmen), and U.S. Air Force Academy (Air Force Falcons).\n\nThe Navy–Air Force game is normally played on the first Saturday in October, the Army–Air Force game on the first Saturday in November, and the Army–Navy Game on the second Saturday in December. In the event of a tie, the award is shared, but the previous winner retains physical possession of the trophy. The Commander-in-Chief's Trophy and the Michigan MAC Trophy are the only NCAA Division I FBS triangular rivalry trophies awarded annually. The few others, such as the Florida Cup and the Beehive Boot, are contested sporadically.\n\nThrough 2019, the Air Force Falcons hold the most trophy victories with 20. The Navy Midshipmen, the current holders, have won 16. The Army Black Knights trail with 8. The trophy has been shared on four occasions, most recently in 1993.\n\nAir Force first played Army in 1959 and Navy in 1960; prior to 1972, Air Force met Army in odd years and Navy in even years (and neither in 1961, trophy was the brainchild of Air Force General George B. Simler, a former Air Force Academy athletic director who envisioned the trophy as a means to create an annual series of football games for the Air Force Academy against the Military Academy and the Naval Academy. First awarded in 1972 by President Richard Nixon, the trophy itself is jointly sponsored by the alumni associations of the three academies.\n\nThe trophy is named for the U.S. President, who is the Commander-in-Chief of all U.S. military services under the U.S. Constitution. The President has personally awarded the trophy on a number of occasions. During the 1980s, for instance, President Ronald Reagan presented the award in an annual White House ceremony. In 1996, President Bill Clinton presented the trophy to the Army team at Veterans Stadium after the Army–Navy Game. From 2003 to 2007, President George W. Bush presented the trophy to Navy teams at ceremonies in the White House.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and early 1990s, the winner of the trophy, if bowl eligible, was granted an invitation to the Liberty Bowl in Memphis, Tennessee.\n\nNavy was the first to five wins in 1981, while Army won its fifth in 1988 and Air Force in 1989 to knot the series (five wins each with three shares). Air Force has led since their win in 1990, and dominated through 2002, with sixteen wins to Army's six. Winless in the series for over two decades, Navy reeled off seven consecutive sweeps from 2003 through 2009 to draw close.\n\nIn the annual series, Air Force plays a home game and a road game, usually both on campus, hosting Navy in even-numbered years and Army in odd years. Army–Navy is a neutral site game, usually in a major eastern city and most frequently in Philadelphia; it was last played on campus in 1942 and 1943, during World War II travel restrictions.\n\nThe other two federal service academies – the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy – do not participate in this competition. They are approximately one-quarter the size of the three Department of Defense academies and compete in Division III athletics, so they do not compete against the DOD military academies in most sports. The Coast Guard Bears and Merchant Marine Mariners have an annual football rivalry for the Secretaries Cup.\n\nThe trophy itself stands high and weighs . The design consists of three silver footballs in a pyramid-like arrangement, set on a circular base, with three arc-shaped sections cut out – one for each academy. In each of the cut-out areas stands a silver figurine of the mascot of one of the academies, in front of small, engraved plates denoting which years the respective academy has won the trophy. Beneath each of the three silver footballs is the crest of one of the three academies.\n\nWhen Air Force has possession of the trophy, it is displayed in a glass case in the Cadet Fieldhouse, the indoor sports complex at the Air Force Academy. When Navy has possession of the trophy, it is displayed in a glass case in Bancroft Hall, the Midshipmen's dormitory. When Army possesses the trophy, it is housed in a glass case outside the football offices in the Army West Point Sports Hall of Fame, part of the Kimsey Athletic Center in Michie Stadium.\n\nIn the event of a shared award, the previous year's winner retains custody of the trophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850340", "title": "Hami Mandıralı", "text": "Hami Mandıralı\n\nHami Mandıralı (born 20 July 1968) is a Turkish football manager and former footballer. He played for Trabzonspor nearly all of his career.\n\nMandıralı was born in Arsin, Trabzon, Turkey. joined Trabzonspor aged 10, and continued on to make his professional debut in 1985, aged 17. He quickly established himself as one of the most consistent finishers of his time. He became a regular in the Turkey national team, and was always near the top of the goalscorers charts. Mandıralı proved his reputation was deserved by scoring many goals in European competition. In all, he scored 23 goals in European football.\nMandıralı was particularly famous for his free-kicks, from which he scored many times in his career. He did not try and curl the ball, like most of his more illustrious colleagues in the art of scoring free-kicks. Instead, he would unleash thunderous shots that would fly past or through walls and leave the goalkeeper standing motionless. In this manner his style is similar with Roberto Carlos.\n\nHe had an extremely powerful shot, being able to easily surpass 140 km/h. Very hard shots include the free kick against San Marino in 1997 and the halfway goal against 1860 Munich, this one surprisingly powerful (over 173 km/h). He scored many times from long and very long range, even over 40 m.\n\nIn 1998, he joined the German club Schalke 04 for DM7 million (€3.5 million), but remained there for one year only. He was transferred back to Trabzonspor in the 1999–2000 season for a sum of €2.25 million. Upon his return, he regained his position as top marksman, consistently ending each season as the club's top scorer. In 2002, he was let go by the chairman Özkan Sümer. There was a good deal of bad feeling about his departure, and it is not widely known what caused the split. Mandıralı moved to Ankaragücü, but did not stay long. He retired soon after, having never won the league championship.\n\nOn 1 July 2008, Mandıralı was appointed on a two-years contract manager of the Turkey under-21 side.\n\nSome of his achievements include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850345", "title": "Herbert Jasper", "text": "Herbert Jasper\n\nHerbert Henri Jasper, (July 27, 1906 – March 11, 1999) was a Canadian psychologist, physiologist, neurologist, and epileptologist.\n\nBorn in La Grande, Oregon, he attended Reed College in Portland, Oregon and received his PhD in psychology from the University of Iowa in 1931 and earned a Doctor of Science degree from the University of Paris for research in neurobiology. \n\nFrom 1946-64 he was Professor of Experimental Neurology at the Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University and then from 1965-76 he was Professor of Neurophysiology, Université de Montréal. He did his most important research with Wilder Penfield at McGill University. He was a member of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He was also a member of the Canadian Neurological Society and the Royal Society of Medicine. He wrote more than 350 scientific publications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850347", "title": "Jefferson, Colorado", "text": "Jefferson, Colorado\n\nJefferson is an unincorporated community and a U.S. Post Office in Park County, Colorado, United States. It is located in the northern end of South Park, along U.S. Route 285, approximately 15 miles (24 km) northeast of Fairplay, at the western foot of Kenosha Pass. It lies from Como, from Bailey, and from Breckenridge. The town consists largely of a strip of retail businesses along U.S. Route 285, as well as a small unpaved grid of houses and trailers on the south side of the highway. The most notable landmarks in town are a historic one-room schoolhouse and the Historic Jefferson Denver, South Park and Pacific Railroad (DSP&P RR)Depot (c. 1880), highly visible in the surrounding grasslands of South Park. The Jefferson Post Office has the ZIP Code 80456.\n\nJefferson is located at (39.568,-105.801).\n\n"}
{"id": "1850351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850351", "title": "NVDA", "text": "NVDA\n\nThe initialism NVDA may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850359", "title": "DK2", "text": "DK2\n\nDK2 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1850361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850361", "title": "User assistance", "text": "User assistance\n\nUser assistance is a general term for guided assistance to a user of a software product. The phrase incorporates all forms of help available to a user. Assistance can also automatically perform procedures or step users through the procedure, depending on the question that the user asked. The term is broader than online help, and includes procedural and tutorial information.\n\nUser assistance provides information to help a person to interact with software. This can include describing the user interface, but also focuses on how to help the user to best apply the software capabilities to their needs. User assistance can be considered a component of the broader category of user experience.\n\nUser assistance employs a number of devices including help, wizards, tutorials, printed manuals (and their PDF equivalents), and user interface text. User assistance professionals also contribute to enterprise knowledge bases and content management systems.\n\nEffective user assistance development requires a variety of communication skills. These include writing, editing, task analysis, and subject-matter expert (SME) interviewing. Since the user assistance profession is directly involved with software development, the discipline often requires an understanding of UI design, usability testing, localization, testing, quality assurance, instructional design, scripting or programming, and accessibility.\n\n\"For information related to this topic, see Instruction manual (computer and video games)\"\n\nA traditional form of user assistance is a user manual, which is distributed either with the product in paper form or electronically. Typical features of a user manual include installation procedures, a guide to how to use the software, as well as a disclaimer stating the licensing status of the software. Details of a helpline may also be available.\n\n\"For more information on this topic, see Online help\"\n\n\"For information related to this topic, see Helpline\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850366", "title": "John E. Rankin", "text": "John E. Rankin\n\nJohn Elliott Rankin (March 29, 1882 – November 26, 1960) was a Democratic politician from Mississippi who served sixteen terms in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1921 to 1953. He was co-author of the bill for the Tennessee Valley Authority and from 1933 to 1936 he supported the New Deal programs of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, which brought investment and jobs to the South. After 1937 he was active in the Conservative Coalition that largely controlled domestic policy.\n\nRankin proposed a bill to prohibit interracial marriage and opposed a bill to prohibit state use of the poll tax, which southern states had used since the turn of the century to disenfranchise most blacks and many poor whites. He used his power to support segregation and deny federal benefits of varied programs to African Americans. For instance, in 1944, following the Port Chicago disaster, the U.S. Navy asked Congress to authorize payments of $5,000 to each of the victims' families. But when Rankin learned most of the dead were black sailors, he insisted the amount be reduced to $2,000; Congress settled the amount at $3,000 per family.\n\nHe was the main House sponsor of the GI Bill. Rankin insisted that its administration be decentralized, which led to continued discrimination against black veterans in the South and their virtual exclusion from one of the most important postwar programs to build social capital among United States residents. In the South, black veterans were excluded from loans, training and employment assistance. The historically black colleges were underfunded and could accept only about half the men who wanted to enroll.\n\nOn the floor of the House, Rankin expressed racist views of African Americans, Japanese Americans, and Jews, accusing Albert Einstein of being a communist agitator. During World War II, Rankin supported a bill to incarcerate all Japanese Americans in the US and its territories in camps; almost all ethnic Japanese on the West Coast were incarcerated in inland camps. In the late 20th century, Congress authorized payment of reparations to survivors and their descendants.\n\nRankin was born near Bolanda in Itawamba County, Mississippi to a family that had planter ancestors with large holdings before the Civil War. His parents were Thomas Braxton Rankin, a schoolteacher and resident of Tupelo, and Venola Modeste (née Rutledge), born in Arkansas as the daughter of Robert Rutledge and Ellen (née Conoway) Rutledge. His paternal ancestors had come to Mississippi from South Carolina in 1840. After attending local schools and a normal school, Rankin went to college, graduating from the University of Mississippi law school in 1910. He set up a practice in Clay County near where he grew up.\n\nHe married Annie Laurie Burrous. They had a daughter, Annie Laurie Rankin.\n\nHe became prosecuting attorney of Lee County in 1912, a position he held until 1915.\n\nRankin served in the United States Army during World War I.\n\nIn 1920, Rankin was elected to the House as a Democrat. Since passage of a new constitution in 1890 that effectively disenfranchised African Americans, Mississippi had become a one-party state dominated by Democrats. Rankin served sixteen consecutive terms (March 4, 1921 – January 3, 1953) as Mississippi's First District Representative. Appointed to the Census Committee as a freshman congressman, Rankin played an important role in opposing a reapportionment bill that would have reduced the representation of Mississippi, as well as one to reduce the overall representation of the South. Both bills were based on the fact that Southern states had disenfranchised most of their black voters but kept apportionment based on total population in each state, resulting in outsize representation for their white populations. The powerful Democrats consistently defeated northern representatives' effort to reduce southern apportionment.\n\nRankin coauthored the bill to create the Tennessee Valley Authority, bringing major investment into the rural South. He was a supporter of the Rural Electrification Administration under President Roosevelt's administration, which also benefited many Southerners. He strongly supported Roosevelt's New Deal and advocated economic intervention in poor rural communities, but expected that most benefits would flow to southern whites. He supported racial segregation and opposed civil rights legislation. After 1937 he became active in the Conservative Coalition that largely controlled domestic policy.\n\nRankin opposed the creation of the UN, stating, \"The United Nations is the greatest fraud in all History. Its purpose is to destroy the United States.\"\n\nRankin chaired the Committee on World War Veterans' Legislation (Seventy-second through Seventy-ninth Congresses) and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs (Eighty-first and Eighty-second Congresses.). In the first role he was the main House sponsor of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, known as the G.I. Bill of Rights. Edward Humes says it was Rankin \"who served as the primary force behind the version of the bill that actually got passed into law.\" He insisted on a provision that the federal program would be administered in a decentralized manner by the states. This ensured that southern states could continue to practice discrimination against black veterans. According to historian Gavin Wright, \"In a comprehensive econometric analysis, Sarah Turner and John Bound find that although the GI Bill had substantial positive benefits for black and white veterans outside the South, \"those from the South made no significant gains in educational attainment.\"\n\nRankin helped establish the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) as a standing committee in Congress in February 1945 by leading the conservative coalition of Republicans and Southern Democrats. In the postwar years, he was active in probing the Communist Party, USA.\n\nHe was criticized for failing to investigate violence and murder perpetrated by chapters of the Ku Klux Klan. After HUAC's chief counsel Ernest Adamson announced: \"The committee has decided that it lacks sufficient data on which to base a probe,\" Rankin added: \"After all, the KKK is an old American institution.\"\n\nRankin introduced a bill in 1920 to prohibit interracial marriage. During that decade, he opposed bills to make lynching a federal crime; although such a bill overwhelmingly passed the House, it was not approved by the Senate. In these positions, he was similar to other southern Democrats: he opposed other bills to support African-American civil rights, such as any efforts toward desegregation and the elimination of poll taxes for federal elections. Poll taxes had been used by southern states to disfranchise most blacks and many poor whites since the turn of the century. Rankin argued that equal opportunity hiring practices (as required by the Roosevelt administration for defense contractors) \"persecuted\" whites, anti-lynching bills encouraged rape, and racial equality would destroy \"the white man's civilization throughout the world.\"\n\nDuring World War II, Rankin alleged that the U.S. Army's loss of a certain battle was due to the cowardice of black soldiers. Fellow Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas replied that many black soldiers had been decorated for bravery despite serving in a segregated Army.\n\nRankin was known to use the slur \"nigger\" on the floor of the House.\n\nWhen African American Adam Clayton Powell Jr. was elected to Congress from New York in 1944, Rankin vowed to avoid sitting next to him. In 1945, Powell, a fellow Democrat, called for Rankin's impeachment. Although freshmen congressmen were expected not to speak during their first year in office, Powell rose after one of Rankin's outbursts to say that \"the time has arrived to impeach Rankin, or at least expel him from the party.\"\n\nDuring a debate about the 1949 Peekskill Riots in Cortlandt Manor, Westchester County, New York, Rankin again used the word \"nigger\" while addressing the House. Violence had erupted after a racist mob of white anti-communists attacked people leaving a concert where the African American entertainer and political radical Paul Robeson had been performing. Rankin condemned Robeson for inciting the trouble because of his civil rights activism.\n\nThe next person to speak was Representative Jacob Javits (R-New York) who instead condemned the white mob in Peekskill for violating constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech and free assembly. Angered by these comments, Rankin bellowed, \"It was not surprising to hear the gentleman from New York defend the Communist enclave.\" He then wanted it known that the American people are not in sympathy \"with that nigger Communist and that bunch of Reds who went up there.\"\n\nOn a point of order, Representative Vito Marcantonio (R-New York) protested to House Speaker Sam Rayburn (D-Texas) that \"the gentleman from Mississippi used the word 'nigger.' I ask that the word be taken down and stricken from the RECORD inasmuch as there are two members in this house of Negro race.\" Rayburn claimed that Rankin had not said \"nigger\" but \"Negro\"; but Rankin yelled over him, saying \"I said Niggra! Just as I have said since I have been able to talk and shall continue to say.\" Speaker Rayburn defended Rankin, ruling that \"the gentleman from Mississippi is not subject to a point of order... referred to the Negro race and they should not be afraid of that designation.\"\n\nRankin was antisemitic. In a paper by William L. Strickland, professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, he notes that \"Rankin was an equal opportunity bigot\" as he once—on the floor of the House of Representatives—called the Jewish newspaper columnist Walter Winchell \"the little kike.\" This incident, reported by \"Time\" magazine in its February 14, 1944 issue, inspired the novelist Laura Z. Hobson to write her world-famous story of antisemitism, \"Gentleman's Agreement\" (1947).\n\nRankin claimed that the Immigration and Nationality Act was opposed solely by American Jews:\nThey whine about discrimination. Do you know who is being discriminated against? The white Christian people of America, the ones who created this nation ... I am talking about the white Christian people of the North as well as the South ... Communism is racial. A racial minority seized control in Russia and in all her satellite countries, such as Poland, Czechoslovakia, and many other countries I could name. They have been run out of practically every country in Europe in the years gone by, and if they keep stirring race trouble in this country and trying to force their communistic program on the Christian people of America, there is no telling what will happen to them here.\n\nIn late 1945, Albert Einstein backed calls for the United States to break off diplomatic relations with Spain's leader Francisco Franco, because the Spanish dictator had been an ally of Adolf Hitler. Rankin condemned Einstein on the floor of Congress, calling him a \"foreign-born agitator\" who sought \"to further the spread of Communism throughout the world.\"\n\nAn article in an \"ADL Bulletin\", entitled \"The Plot Against Anna M. Rosenberg\", attributed the attacks on Rosenberg's loyalty to \"professional anti-Semites and lunatic nationalists,\" including the \"Jew-baiting cabal of John Rankin, Benjamin H. Freedman and Gerald Smith.\"\n\nDuring the 1951 espionage trial of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were charged and convicted of passing information about the atomic bomb to the Soviet Union, Rankin was condemned by Jewish groups for repeatedly calling the Rosenbergs a pair of \"communist kikes\".\n\nIn his first term as representative, Rankin introduced an anti-miscegenation bill to prevent whites from marrying \"Mongolians\" and African Americans. A decade later, in 1930 he lobbied against Hawaii's bid for statehood on the grounds that it would add \"two Jap senators\" to Congress.\n\nRankin was one of the few Southern congressmen to support West Coast politicians and lobbyists calling for the mass incarceration of Japanese Americans, proposing that every person of Japanese ancestry in the United States be deported at the end of the war. He reintroduced a defeated \"concentration camp bill\" to remove ethnic Japanese from the country and all U.S. territories. (Most ethnic Japanese Americans were removed from the West Coast.) As the war progressed, he continued to speak out against Japanese Americans, testifying in favor of labeling Japanese and African-American blood donations to prevent them from \"contaminating\" white recipients and limiting the segregated 442nd Regimental Combat Team to labor battalions instead of active combat.\n\nIn 1947 Rankin ran for the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate that was vacated by the death of Theodore G. Bilbo in office. He finished last among five major candidates with 13% of the vote.\n\nIn 1952 Rankin was defeated for re-election to the House by Congressman Thomas G. Abernethy, also a Democrat, after their districts were joined through redistricting. At that time, most blacks in Mississippi were still disenfranchised, a status that would persist until after Congressional passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.\n\nRankin died at his home in Tupelo on November 26, 1960. He is interred in Greenwood Cemetery in West Point, Mississippi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850386", "title": "Jan Feliks &quot;Szram&quot; Tarnowski", "text": "Jan Feliks &quot;Szram&quot; Tarnowski\n\nJan Feliks Tarnowski (July 31, 1471 – March 21, 1507) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nJan Feliks was owner of Wielowieś, Rzochów and Wadowice estates. He was Chorąży of Kraków since 20 February 1484, starost of Belz since 28 December 1485, Stolnik of the Royal court since 27 May 1494, castellan of Lublin since 27 December 1497, voivode of Lublin Voivodeship before 28 May 1499, voivode of Sandomierz Voivodeship since 6 March 1501, voivode of Kraków Voivodeship and starost of Horodło since 1 September 1505.\n"}
{"id": "1850387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850387", "title": "Vedea (disambiguation)", "text": "Vedea (disambiguation)\n\nVedea can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1850389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850389", "title": "On the Good Ship Lollipop", "text": "On the Good Ship Lollipop\n\n\"On the Good Ship Lollipop\" was the signature song of child actress Shirley Temple. Temple first sang it in the 1934 movie \"Bright Eyes\". The song was composed by Richard A. Whiting, and the lyrics were supplied by Sidney Clare. In the song, the \"Good Ship Lollipop\" travels to a candy land. \n\nThe \"ship\" referred to in the song is an aircraft; the scene in \"Bright Eyes\", where the song appears, takes place on a taxiing American Airlines Douglas DC-2.\n\n400,000 copies of the sheet music, published by Sam Fox Publishing Company were sold, and a recording by Mae Questel (the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl) reputedly sold more than two million copies. In June 2004, it finished at #69 in AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in cinema in America.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850390", "title": "Kristy", "text": "Kristy\n\nKristy is a female given name of Latin origin, which means \"follower of Christ\". The name is a variant of Kristi, Kristin, Kristina, and Kristine. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\nKristy saade \n"}
{"id": "1850393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850393", "title": "Palestina, Ecuador", "text": "Palestina, Ecuador\n\nPalestina is a town located in northern Guayas, Ecuador. It is the seat of Palestina Canton, created in 1988.\n\nAs of the census of 2001, there are 14,067 people residing within canton limits. \n\nThe most important river is the Daule River, used for transportation. St Bartholomew is the patron saint of Palestina.\n"}
{"id": "1850398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850398", "title": "Ontario Municipal Board", "text": "Ontario Municipal Board\n\nThe Ontario Municipal Board (OMB) was an independent administrative board, operated as an adjudicative tribunal, in the province of Ontario, Canada. It heard applications and appeals on municipal and planning disputes, as well as other matters specified in provincial legislation. The tribunal reported to the Ministry of the Attorney General from 2012 until its shuttering. The Board had been criticized for its broad powers and authority to override the Planning Act decisions of municipal councils.\n\nThe Ontario Municipal Board was replaced by the Local Planning Appeal Tribunal on 3 April 2018, which is to have more limited powers and a reduced scope.\n\nThe OMB was established in 1906 as the Ontario Railway and Municipal Board \"to oversee municipalities’ accounts and to supervise the then rapidly growing rail transportation system between and within municipalities.\" In so doing, it took over responsibility of these functions from the former Railway Committee of the Executive Council and Office of the Provincial Municipal Auditor. It was amalgamated with the Bureau of Municipal Affairs and given its current name in 1932.\n\nIn 2010, under the \"Adjudicative Tribunals Accountability, Governance and Appointments Act, 2009\", the OMB was designated as part of a cluster known as \"Environment and Land Tribunals Ontario\", which also includes the Assessment Review Board, boards of negotiation under the \"Expropriations Act\", the Conservation Review Board and the Environmental Review Tribunal.\n\nThe OMB was constituted under the \"Ontario Municipal Board Act\", which conferred \"exclusive jurisdiction in all cases and in respect of all matters in which jurisdiction is conferred on it by this Act or by any other general or special Act.\" Until 2009, its decisions could be appealed by petition to the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, but such petitions were abolished by the \"Good Government Act, 2009\", after which decisions of the OMB were final, subject only to appeals to the Divisional Court on a question of law with that Court's leave.\n\nWhile the Act declared that the Board \"has all the powers of a court of record\", in 1938 the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council held that it is not a superior court, but in pith and substance an administrative body. Appeals to the OMB were described as \"a process requiring the OMB to exercise its public interest mandate\", and \"on an appeal the Board had the obligation to exercise its independent judgment\".\n\nThe Board had general jurisdiction in municipal matters, as well as over provincially-regulated railways and public utilities (other than matters that are within the jurisdiction of the Ontario Energy Board). It had been conferred further powers under the \"Railways Act\", the \"Municipal Act, 2001\" the \"City of Toronto Act, 2006\", the \"Planning Act\" and the \"Ontario Heritage Act\".\n\nBefore reaching a decision, the OMB conducted hearings, which were in oral, electronic or written form. Where a matter to be heard was expected to be long or complex, involving many issues, parties and types of evidence, the Board normally held a prehearing to help organize proceedings for subsequent hearings, which included identification of issues to be considered at such hearings. The Board expected parties who placed an issue on the Issue List to call a case in support of that issue.\n\nThe Board could award costs against parties who opposed successful applicants, but only when it was requested to do so.\n\nThe Archives of Ontario holds some past OMB decisions, but the collection is limited to the years 19061991 (but certain records in that period have been previously destroyed).\n\nThe OMB makes the following jurisprudence available online:\n\nCarswell publishes \"Ontario Municipal Board Reports\", which is available in law libraries, as well as online at Westlaw. Decisions are also available online at LexisNexis.\n\nThe jurisdiction the Board could exercise was extremely broad in scope, and a Royal Commission inquiry headed by James McRuer reported in 1971 that it was impossible to catalogue all the powers that the Board possessed at that time, although thirty principal Acts were identified. However, an extraordinary provision of the OMB Act allowed for investigation and determination of any matter, where provision was made for it under the letters patent of any corporation formed under Ontario law.\n\nAnother provision of the OMB Act, allowing the Board to require or prohibit the performance of any matter under any Act or agreement, was considered to be \"an absurdly broad power and in its breadth it is unconstitutional\".\n\nThe Board tended to subordinate both provincial and local policies to those of its own making, which successive governments effectively transformed into a policy \"of overseeing municipal activities without direct provincial involvement\". There was discussion as to whether it had outlived its usefulness as a planning review tribunal, as \"it does little that could not be done by local decision makers\".\n\nOn 7 October 2008, City of Toronto councillors representing the former city of North York voted to name a lane \"OMB Folly\" in the area where the OMB, against the city's wishes, approved development of a condominium and townhouse complex near a low-density residential area immediately west of North York Centre. However, Council reversed this decision on 26 August 2010.\n\nAfter a controversial 2009 decision approved a community of up to 1400 homes in the Manotick neighbourhood of Ottawa, Minister of Municipal Affairs Jim Watson was quoted in the local press as stating: \"Has the OMB been perfect? No. Can it improve? Yes, I think it can and I am quite prepared to work with the attorney general to try and ensure that the OMB is more reflective of community values [...] I've had a couple of discussions with the attorney general going back a month and we both agree we are going to take a thorough look at the OMB and see how we can further improve it based on changes we made a couple of years ago. We want to see if they've done what we hoped they'd do to bring greater balance to OMB decision-making.\"\n\nOn February 6, 2012 Toronto City Council asked the province to free the city from the Ontario Municipal Board’s jurisdiction. Council endorsed the proposal in a 34-5 vote. Spearheaded by councillor Josh Matlow, along with councillor Kristyn Wong-Tam. Matlow is quoted in the Toronto Star newspaper: \"We’ve heard time and time again from our residents that there’s an inequitable playing field...Developers simply have a better chance at the OMB because they have the financial resources, the ability to get planners and lawyers, anything they need to be able to argue their case\". This proposal should open the door for discussion of the efficiency and justice of the unelected board that controls the majority of Ontario developments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850407", "title": "Shushtar", "text": "Shushtar\n\nShushtar (; also Romanized as Shūshtar and Shūstar, and Shooshtar) is a city and capital of Shushtar County, Khuzestan Province, Iran.\n\nShushtar is an ancient fortress city, approximately away from Ahvaz, the centre of the province. Much of its past agricultural productivity derives from the irrigation system which centered on the Band-e Kaisar, the first dam bridge in Iran. The Mayor of Shushtar is Ahmad Asefi.\n\nIn the Elamite times Shushtar was known as \"Adamdun\". In the Achaemenian times its name was \"Šurkutir\". The modern name, \"Shushtar\", is connected with the name of another ancient city, Susa (or \"Shush\", in Persian pronunciation), and means \"greater (or better) than Shush.\"\n\nDuring the Sassanian era, it was an island city on the Karun river and selected to become the summer capital. The river was channelled to form a moat around the city, while bridges and main gates into Shushtar were built to the east, west, and south. Several rivers nearby are conducive to the extension of agriculture; the cultivation of sugar cane, the main crop, dates back to 226. A system of subterranean channels called \"Ghanats\", which connected the river to the private reservoirs of houses and buildings, supplied water for domestic use and irrigation, as well as to store and supply water during times of war when the main gates were closed. Traces of these \"ghanats\" can still be found in the crypts of some houses.\n\nIbn Battuta visited, noting \"On both banks of the river, there are orchards and water-wheels, the river itself is deep and over it, leading to the travelers' gate, there is a bridge upon boats.\"\n\nThe ancient fortress walls were destroyed at the end of the Safavid era.\n\nThe Band-e Kaisar (\"Caesar's dam\") is believed by some to be a Roman built arch bridge [since Roman captured soldiers were used in its construction], and the first in the country to combine it with a dam. When the Sassanian Shah Shapur I defeated the Roman emperor Valerian, he is said to have ordered the captive Roman soldiers to build a large bridge and dam stretching over 500 metres. Lying deep in Persian territory, the structure which exhibits typical Roman building techniques became the most eastern Roman bridge and Roman dam. Its dual-purpose design exerted a profound influence on Iranian civil engineering and was instrumental in developing Sassanid water management techniques.\n\nThe approximately 500 m long overflow dam over the Karun, Iran's most effluent river, was the core structure of the Shushtar Historical Hydraulic System, a large irrigation complex from which Shushtar derived its agricultural productivity, and which has been designated World Heritage Site by the UNESCO in 2009. The arched superstructure carried across the important road between Pasargadae and the Sassanid capital Ctesiphon. Many times repaired in the Islamic period, the dam bridge fell out of use in the late 19th century, leading to the degeneration of the complex system of irrigation.\n\nThe people of Shushtar, called \"Shushtaris\", maintain a unique cultural heritage stretching back to ancient times, and a Persian dialect distinct to their group.\n\nThe Shushtari dialect is spoken in Shushtar and is a dialect of Persian.\n\nShushtar has a hot semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification \"BSh\") with extremely hot summers and mild winters. Rainfall is higher than most of southern Iran, but is almost exclusively confined to the period from November to April, though on occasions it can exceed per month or per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850408", "title": "Road Gang", "text": "Road Gang\n\nRoad Gang is a 1936 film directed by Louis King, written by Dalton Trumbo, produced by Bryan Foy, and starring Donald Woods and Kay Linaker. The film shows economic and social injustice due to political corruption.\n\nThe managing editor of a Chicago newspaper crusades for inmates (Donald Woods, Carlyle Moore Jr.) in a Southern prison camp.\n"}
{"id": "1850410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850410", "title": "Como, Colorado", "text": "Como, Colorado\n\nComo is an unincorporated community in Park County in the Rocky Mountains of central Colorado, United States. According to the 2010 census, the population is 439.\n\nIt is believed the town was named by miners from Como, Italy, who worked the coal fields of the area. In 1879, the town became the location of a depot of the Denver, South Park and Pacific Railroad, which was extended over Kenosha Pass to reach the silver mining areas during the Colorado Silver Boom. Later, the town served as a division point for trains going northward over Boreas Pass and southward toward Garos and over Trout Creek Pass at the western end of South Park. The town has many historic weathered structures, including the roundhouse, hotel, and depot and has the air of a ghost town that is still nevertheless populated, by twenty people. It has a small commercial district consisting of a post office, gallery, hotel. The depot has been renovated with plans to make it an area tourist attraction.\n\nWith a population in the 1910 census of 475, 36 more than in 2010, Como was then the largest community in Park County. There were eighty-three children of school age that year. The former Como High School had begun in an abandoned Presbyterian Church, which was moved to another site. The school closed in either 1940 or 1941, by which time railroad service to Como had already ended some three years earlier. The remaining pupils were bused to Fairplay. The old Como High School building was left intact and used for the storage of decades of school records and memorabilia, items which were rediscovered in the 1990s. The former school, with a well-preserved classroom, is open to the public only once annually, on Boreas Pass Railroad Day, but students may visit on field trips. The school provides a glimpse into yesteryear.\n\nComo is located at the northern end of South Park, Como is an historic railroad settlement. It sits approximately one-half mile (1 km) west of U.S. Route 285 and some nine miles (15 km) northeast of the county seat of Fairplay. Como is accessible by a paved County Road 33, which becomes gravel inside the town. Boreas Pass Road runs northwest over Boreas Pass to Breckenridge. The mountains northwest of Como form a dramatic background to the site of the town on the flank of Little Baldy Mountain.\n\nOn May 13, 2011, Marshal Adolph E. Cook of Como was inducted into the National Law Enforcement Memorial in Washington, D.C. Earlier in 1999, he was inducted into the Colorado Law Enforcement Memorial. He is the only law enforcement officer from Park County to qualify for in his case posthumous honors. Cook was shot to death in 1894 when he came to a Como residence to break up a loud party. Two women at the party, including Anna Blythe Speas, were charged with accessory to murder but acquitted. Speas' tragic life story is told in the book \"Historic Tales from Park County: Parked in the Past\" by the journalist Laura King Van Dusen, who writes for the newspaper \"The Flume\" in Fairplay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850412", "title": "Double-headed eagle", "text": "Double-headed eagle\n\nIn heraldry and vexillology, the double-headed eagle (or double-eagle) is a charge associated with the concept of Empire. Most modern uses of the symbol are directly or indirectly associated with its use by the Roman/Byzantine Empire, whose use of it represented the Empire's dominion over the Near East and the West. The symbol is much older, and its original meaning is debated among scholars. The eagle has long been a symbol of power and dominion.\n\nThe double-headed eagle or double-eagle is a motif that appears in Mycenaean Greece and in the Ancient Near East, especially in Hittite iconography. It re-appeared during the High Middle Ages, from circa the 10th or 11th century, and was notably used by the East Roman Empire, but 11th or 12th century representations have also been found originating from Islamic Spain, France and the Serbian principality of Raška. From the 13th century onward, it became even more widespread, and was used by the Seljuk Sultanate of Rum and the Mamluk Sultanate within the Islamic world, and by the Holy Roman Empire, Serbia, several medieval Albanian noble families and Russia within the Christian world.\n\nUsed in the Eastern Roman Empire as a dynastic emblem of the Palaiologoi, it was adopted during the Late Medieval to Early Modern period in the Holy Roman Empire on the one hand, and in Orthodox principalities (Serbia and Russia) on the other, representing an augmentation of the (single-headed) eagle or \"Aquila\" associated with the Roman Empire. In a few places, among them the Holy Roman Empire and Russia, the motif was further augmented to create the less prominent triple-headed eagle.\n\nPolycephalous mythological beasts are very frequent in the Bronze Age to Iron Age pictorial legacy of the Ancient Near East, especially in the Assyrian sphere, and thence adopted by the Hittites. Use of the double-headed eagle in Hittite imagery has been interpreted as \"royal insignia\". A monumental Hittite relief of a double-headed eagle grasping two hares is found at the eastern pier of the Sphinx Gate at Alaca Hüyük.\n\nIn Mycenaean Greece, evidence of the double-eagle motif was discovered in Grave Circle A, an elite Mycenaean cemetery; the motif was part of a series of gold jewelry, possibly a necklace with a repeating design.\n\nAfter the Bronze Age collapse, there is a gap of more than two millennia before the re-appearance of the double-headed eagle motif. The earliest occurrence in the context of the East Roman Empire appears to be on a silk brocade dated to the 10th century, which was, however, likely manufactured in Islamic Spain; similarly early examples, from the 10th or 11th century, are from Bulgaria and from France.\n\nThe early East Roman Empire continued to use the (single-headed) imperial eagle motif. The double-headed eagle appears only in the medieval period, by about the 10th century in East Roman art, but as an imperial emblem only much later, during the final century of the Palaiologos dynasty. In Western European sources, it appears as an East Roman state emblem since at least the 15th century.\n\nA modern theory, forwarded by Zapheiriou (1947), connected the introduction of the motif to Roman Emperor Isaac I Komnenos (1057–1059), whose family originated in Paphlagonia. Zapheiriou supposed that the Hittite motif of the double-headed bird, associated with the Paphlagonian city of Gangra (where it was known as \"Haga\", ) might have been brought to East Roman Empire by the Komnenoi.\n\nThe double-headed eagle motif was adopted in the Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm and the Turkic beyliks of medieval Anatolia in the early 13th century. A royal association of the motif is suggested by its appearance on the keystone of an arch of the citadel built at Konya (former Ikonion) under Kayqubad I (r. 1220–1237). The motif appears on Turkomen coins of this era, notably on coins minted under Artuqid ruler Nasir al-Din Mahmud of Hasankeyf (r. 1200–1222). It is also found on some stone reliefs on the towers of Diyarbakır Fortress.\n\nLater in the 13th century, the motif was also adopted in Mamluk Egypt; it is notably found on the pierced-globe handwarmer made for Mamluk amir Badr al-Din Baysari (c. 1270), and in a stone relief on the walls of the Cairo Citadel.\nAdoption of the double-headed eagle in Albania, Serbia, Russia and in the Holy Roman Empire begins still in the medieval period, possibly as early as the 12th century, but widespread use begins after the fall of Constantinople, in the late 15th century.\n\nThe oldest preserved depiction of a double-headed eagle in Serbia is the one found in the donor portrait of Miroslav of Hum in the Church of St. Peter and Paul in Bijelo Polje, dating to 1190. The double-headed eagle in the Serbian royal coat of arms is well attested in the 13th and 14th centuries.\n\nAn exceptional medieval depiction of a double-headed eagle in the West, attributed to Otto IV, is found in a copy of the \"Chronica Majora\" of Matthew of Paris (Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, Parker MS 16 fol. 18, 13th century).\n\nIn Serbia, the Nemanjić dynasty adopted a double-headed eagle by the 14th century (recorded by Angelino Dulcert 1339). The double-headed eagle was used in several coats of arms found in the Illyrian Armorials, compiled in the early modern period. The white double-headed eagle on a red shield was used for the Nemanjić dynasty, and the Despot Stefan Lazarević. A \"Nemanjić eagle\" was used at the crest of the Hrebeljanović (Lazarević dynasty), while a half-white half-red eagle was used at the crest of the Mrnjavčević. Use of the white eagle was continued by the modern Karađorđević, Obrenović and Petrović-Njegoš ruling houses.\nAfter the fall of Constantinople, the use of two-headed eagle symbols spread to Grand Duchy of Moscow after Ivan III's second marriage (1472) to Zoe Palaiologina (a niece of the last East Roman emperor Constantine XI Palaiologos, who reigned 1449–1453), The last prince of Tver, Mikhail III of Tver (1453–1505), was stamping his coins with two-headed eagle symbol. The double-headed eagle remained an important motif in the heraldry of the imperial families of Russia (the House of Romanov (1613-1762)).\n\nThe double-headed eagle was a main element of the coat of arms of the Russian Empire (1721–1917), modified in various ways from the reign of Ivan III (1462–1505) onwards, with the shape of the eagle getting its definite Russian form during the reign of Peter the Great (1682–1725). It continued in Russian use until abolished (being identified with Tsarist rule) with the Russian Revolution in 1917; it was restored in 1993 after that year's constitutional crisis and remains in use up to the present, although the eagle charge on the present coat of arms is golden rather than the traditional, imperial black.\nUse of a double-headed Imperial Eagle, improved from the single-headed Imperial Eagle used in the high medieval period, became current in the 15th to 16th centuries. The double-headed \"Reichsadler\" was in the coats of arms of many German cities and aristocratic families in the early modern period. A distinguishing feature of the Holy Roman eagle was that it was often depicted with haloes.\nAfter the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, the double-headed eagle was retained by the Austrian Empire, and served also as the coat of arms of the German Confederation. The German states of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt and Schwarzburg-Sondershausen continued to use the double-headed eagle as well until they were abolished shortly after the First World War, and so did the Free City of Lübeck until it was abolished by the Nazi government in 1937. Austria, which switched to a single-headed eagle after the end of the monarchy, briefly used a double-headed eagle – with haloes – once again when it was a one-party state 1934–1938; this, too, was ended by the Nazi government. Since then, Germany and Austria, and their respective states, have not used double-headed eagles.\nThe \"Gandabherunda\" is a bicephalous bird, not necessarily an eagle but very similar in design to the double-headed eagle used in Western heraldry, used as a symbol by the Wadiyar dynasty of the Kingdom of Mysore from the 16th century. Coins (gold pagoda or gadyana) from the rule of Achyuta Deva Raya (reigned 1529–1542) are thought to be the first to use the Gandabherunda on currency. An early instance of the design is found on a sculpture on the roof of the Rameshwara temple in the temple town of Keladi in Shivamogga. The symbol was in continued use by the Maharaja of Mysore into the modern period, and was adopted as the state symbol of the State of Mysore (now Karnataka) after Indian independence.\n\nThe Kastrioti family in Albania had a double-headed eagle as their emblem in the 14th and 15th centuries. Some members of the Dukagjini family also used double-headed eagles, and a coalition of Albanian states in the 15th century, later called the League of Lezhe, also used the Kastrioti eagle as its flag. The current flag of Albania does feature a black two-headed eagle with a crimson background. During John Hunyadi's campaign in Niš in 1443, Skanderbeg and a few hundred Albanians defected from the Turkish ranks; for twenty-five years he scored remarkable victories against the Ottomans. He adopted the Byzantine double-headed eagle flag, and his spectacular victories brought him the papal title \"Athleta Christi\". The eagle was used for heraldic purposes in the Middle Ages by a number of noble families in Albania and became the symbol of the Albanians. The Kastrioti's coat of arms, depicting a black double-headed eagle on a red field, became famous when he led a revolt against the Ottoman Empire resulting in the independence of Albania from 1443 to 1479. This was the flag of the League of Lezhë, which was the first unified Albanian state in the Middle Ages and the oldest Parliament with extant records.\n\nAlbania, Serbia, Montenegro and Russia have a double-headed eagle in their coat of arms. In 1912, Ismail Qemali raised a similar version of that flag. The flag has gone through many alterations, until 1992 when the current flag of Albania was introduced. The double-headed eagle is now used as an emblem by a number of Orthodox Christian churches, including the Greek Orthodox Church and the Orthodox Autocephalous Church of Albania. In modern Greece, it appears in official use in the Hellenic Army (Coat of Arms of Hellenic Army General Staff) and the Hellenic Army XVI Infantry Division,\n\nThe two-headed eagle appears, often as a supporter, on the modern and historical arms and flags of Austria-Hungary, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Austria (1934–1938), Albania, Armenia, Montenegro, the Russian Federation, Serbia. It was also used as a charge on the Greek coat of arms for a brief period in 1925–1926. It is also used in the municipal arms of a number of cities in Germany, Netherlands and Serbia, the arms and flag of the city and Province of Toledo, Spain, and the arms of the town of Velletri, Italy.\n\nAn English heraldic tradition, apparently going back to the 17th century, attributes coats of arms with double-headed eagles to the Anglo-Saxon earls of Mercia, Leofwine and Leofric. The design was introduced in a number of British municipal coats of arms in the 20th century, such as the Municipal Borough of Wimbledon in London, the supporters in the coat of arms of the city and burgh of Perth, and hence in that of the district of Perth and Kinross (1975). The motif is also found in a number of British family coats of arms. In Turkey, General Directorate of Security and the municipality of Diyarbakır have a double-headed eagle in their coat of arms. The \"Double-Headed Eagle of Lagash\" is used as an emblem by the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry. It was introduced in France in the early 1760s as the emblem of the Kadosh degree.\n\nSeveral sports clubs, mainly Greek and Turkish, have the double-headed eagle in their insignia. Some of them are: two football clubs of Turkey, Erzurumspor and Konyaspor and the Greek sport clubs AEK (Athletic Union of Constantinople) and (since 1929) P.A.O.K. (Panthesalonikios Athletic club of Constantinople). The Greek clubs use this symbol since both were founded by Greek refugees who fled to Greece from Constantinople in the 1920s. It is also the emblem of the Dutch clubs NEC and Vitesse Arnhem, the English football club AFC Wimbledon and Scottish side Saint Johnstone FC. The Gandabherunda insignia is used by the Indian club Bengaluru FC in their logo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850414", "title": "Safe mode", "text": "Safe mode\n\nSafe mode is a diagnostic mode of a computer operating system (OS). It can also refer to a mode of operation by application software. In Windows, safe mode only allows essential system programs and services to start up at boot. \"Safe mode\" is intended to help fix most, if not all problems within an operating system. It is also widely used for removing rogue security software.\n\nMicrosoft Windows, macOS, Android and Linux distributions such as Ubuntu and Linux Mint are examples of contemporary operating systems that implement a safe mode (called \"Safe Boot\" in macOS) as well as other complex electronic devices.\n\nIn safe mode, an operating system has reduced functionality, but the task of isolating problems is easier since many non-core components are disabled, such as sound. An installation that will only boot into safe mode typically has a major problem, such as disk corruption or the installation of poorly-configured software that prevents the operating system from successfully booting into its normal operating mode.\n\nThough it varies by operating system, safe mode typically loads only essential executable modules and disables devices except for those necessary to display information and accept input. It can also take the form of a parallel \"miniature\" operating system that has no configuration information shared with the normal operating system. For example, on Microsoft Windows, the user can also choose to boot to the Recovery Console, a small text-based troubleshooting mode kept separate from the main operating system (which can also be accessed by booting the install CD) or to various \"safe mode\" options that run the dysfunctional OS but with features, such as video drivers, audio, and networking, disabled.\n\nSafe mode typically provides access to utility and diagnostic programs so a user can troubleshoot what is preventing the operating system from working normally. Safe mode is intended for maintenance, not functionality, and it provides minimal access to features.\n\nMicrosoft Windows' safe mode (for 7/Vista /XP /2000/ME/98/95) is accessed by pressing the F8 key as the operating system boots. Also, in a multi-boot environment with multiple versions of Windows installed side by side, the F8 key can be pressed at the OS selector prompt to get to safe mode. However, under Windows 8 (released in 2012), the traditional press-F8-for-safe-mode-options UI convention no longer works, and either Shift-F8 or a special GUI-based workaround is necessary.\n\nAn equivalently minimal setting in Unix-like operating systems is single-user mode, in which daemons and the X Window System are not started, and only the root user can log in. It can do emergency repairs or maintenance, including resetting users' passwords on the machine without the need to know the old one.\n\nIn macOS holding the shift key after powering up activates Safe Boot that has background maintenance features (Besides the mode selection, it runs a file system repair, and in Mac OS 10.4, it disables all fonts other than those in /System/Library/Fonts, moves to the Trash all font caches normally stored in /Library/Caches/com.apple.ATS/(uid)/, where (uid) is a user ID number such as 501, and disables all startup items and any Login Items) and can reset an administrative account's password. Unlike in Windows where safe mode with networking is disabled by default and requires using a safe mode with networking enabled, in the macOS Safe Boot always includes networking.\n\nOn the Classic Mac OS versions 6, 7, 8, and 9, a similar mode to the Unix root is achieved by holding down the shift key while booting, which starts the system without extensions.\n\nApplication software sometimes offers a safe mode as well. In the PHP interpreter, prior to version 5.4, safe mode offers stricter security measures. \nThe Glasgow Haskell Compiler from version 7.2 offers \"Safe Haskell\" mode, restricting usage of functions such as unsafePerformIO. Mozilla Firefox's safe mode allows the user to remove extensions which may be preventing the browser from loading. Internet Explorer can run in \"No Add-Ons\" mode and Protected Mode. Cydia's MobileSubstrate also has a safe mode that allows the user to uninstall tweaks and extensions that may crash the SpringBoard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850429", "title": "Eddie Cameron", "text": "Eddie Cameron\n\nEdmund McCullough Cameron (April 22, 1902 – November 25, 1988) was an American football and basketball player, coach, and college athletics administrator. He served as the head basketball coach at Washington and Lee University for one season in 1924–25 and at Duke University from 1928 to 1942, compiling a career college basketball record of 234–104. Cameron was also the head football coach at Duke University from 1942 to 1945, tallying a mark of 25–11–1, and the athletic director at the school from 1951 to 1972. Cameron was part of Duke athletics from 1926 to 1972, the second longest tenure in the school's history. Duke's home basketball arena was renamed as Cameron Indoor Stadium in his honor in 1972.\n\nCameron attended Culver Military Academy in Culver, Indiana before becoming a fullback at Washington and Lee University in Virginia. At Washington and Lee, he was captain of both the basketball and football teams, and tied for the national scoring title in football.\n\nWhen Washington and Lee coach Jimmy DeHart was hired by Duke, Cameron followed him to coach the freshman team. After Wallace Wade was lured away from University of Alabama by Duke, school administrators urged him to retain Cameron. Cameron eventually became the backfield coach, scout, and recruiter for Wade. In 1929, he got the additional responsibility of head basketball coach, a position he kept until 1949.\n\nCameron's first two Duke basketball teams made the Southern Conference tournament finals even as a new team in the league. Cameron's teams had a 226–99 record (.695), 119–56 (.680) in conference play, during his 14 years as head coach, which included conference championships in 1938, 1941 and 1942. During his tenure, in 1940, Duke built the largest basketball arena south of the Palestra in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Cameron coached the first game, a 36–27 victory over Princeton University, on January 6, 1940. That arena would eventually come to bear his name.\n\nAfter Wade entered the military service in World War II, Cameron became the head football coach. In four years Cameron's teams won three conference championships, compiled a record of 25–11–1 and won the 1945 Sugar Bowl by beating Alabama, 29–26. Cameron became permanent Director of Physical Education and Athletics in 1946 when Wade returned and resumed coaching football.\n\nCameron was a founder of the Atlantic Coast Conference, chaired the basketball committee of the Southern and ACC conferences for decades, was on the selection committee for the NFL Hall of Fame and was on the governing committee of the Olympics.\n\nCameron died at the age 86 on November 25, 1988 at his home in Durham, North Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "1850430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850430", "title": "2005 New Jersey gubernatorial election", "text": "2005 New Jersey gubernatorial election\n\nThe 2005 New Jersey gubernatorial election was a race for the Governor of New Jersey. It was held on November 8, 2005. Democratic Governor Richard Codey, who replaced Governor Jim McGreevey in 2004 after his resignation, did not run for election for a full term of office.\n\nThe primary election was held on June 7, 2005. U.S. Senator Jon Corzine won the Democratic nomination with no serious opposition. Former Mayor Doug Forrester received the Republican nomination with a plurality of 36%. Corzine defeated Forrester in the general election. New Jersey is reliably Democratic at the federal level, but as of 2019, this is the only time since 1977 in which Democrats won more than one consecutive gubernatorial election in the state.\n\nThe 2005 general election also saw a public referendum question on the ballot for the voters to decide whether to create a position of lieutenant governor, alter the state's order of succession, and whether the state's first lieutenant governor would be chosen in the subsequent gubernatorial election held in 2009. The question passed by a tally of 836,134 votes (56.1%) to 655,333 (43.9%)\n\n\n\n\n\nThe New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission declared that the four candidates would be included in the official gubernatorial debates to be aired on NJN. They included Jeffrey Pawlowski and Hector Castillo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850434", "title": "Highburton", "text": "Highburton\n\nHighburton is part of the township of Kirkburton, a village in the county of West Yorkshire, England. It is five miles southeast of Huddersfield. It occupies much of the high ground that can be found at the top of the steep inclines of Far Dene and Slant Gate and is a mixture of densely congregated housing estates and open pastoral farmland.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census Highburton had a population of 3,288.\n\nHighburton was listed as \"Bertone\" in the \"Domesday Book\". It has been suggested that Highburton was the location of the original settlement that now makes up Kirkburton, given its strategic high ground. Historians consider that the original church or religious temple was located in this part of the village before it was relocated to its present position. It is more likely, given the possible existence of an Iron Age settlement in Kirkburton that both villages commenced life at similar stages. It was a hamlet until the middle of the 20th century, when housing developments increased the size of the village substantially. The historic old part of the village is around the Cross on Slant Gate, Far Dene and Towngate. Houses towards the eastern part of the village, on the streets that border Moor Lane and Burton Acres Lane, were built much later on what were fields and allotments. Today Highburton is the largest residential area within the township, whilst Kirkburton remains, as it was traditionally, the commercial part.\n\nHighburton is home to Highburton First School, the school contains six years including a reception year.\n\nHighburton's local magazine is \"The Burton Bulletin\". It contains news and pictures from Kirkburton, Highburton, Storthes Hall and the surrounding areas and is published every quarter. In A5 format, about 40% of the content is in full colour and usually has a total of approx 200 pages. The editorial office is now in Skelmanthorpe and is printed in Peterborough. It is a free publication, delivered by volunteers to 2100 homes every quarter and additional copies are sent on subscription to various parts of the UK, Canada, USA, Ireland and France.\n\nA Royal Navy minesweeper HMS Highburton (M1130) served from 2 June 1954 until she was scrapped in 1978.\n\nHighburton Cross: marking the site of the medieval market, the steps at the base probably date from the 14th century, the shaft and ball from the 18th or 19th. The cross stands at the top of Far Dene at its junction with Town Gate and Hall Lane. Morehouse states that this \"ancient cross\" denoted the place of a market, however \"whether originated by charter, or by prescription, is unknown\". Highburton (Burton) was a market town in the 12th century, and Court Rolls for the Manor of Wakefield for 1352 indicate the rights to impose tolls on Burton market were being let.\n\nBurton Village Hall: formerly Highburton School, the Village Hall was extensively renovated in 1999 with funds raised by the local community and a grant from the National Lottery Fund. It is the home to Kirkburton Parish Council and a number of groups.\n\nHighburton Co-op: was located on Towngate in the centre of the village, the Co-op laid claim to being the world's oldest operating independent single retail cooperative outlet until its closure in February 2009. The building was purchased from the church in 1856 and began trading in the same year. The co-operative society was wound up in March 2010 and the assets, including the building, were disposed of. After being closed for 22 months, the building re-opened in December 2010 as a village shop with private offices on the first floor.\n\nThe Smiths Arms: at the summit of Far Dene, the Smiths Arms is the only public house in the village and occupies one of its oldest buildings. Built in 1669 in a Tudor/Jacobean style, it began trading as a public house in 1830. Whilst it is the oldest pub building in the township it is not the oldest public house. That honour goes to the George Inn in Kirkburton, which dates back to the 18th century.\n\nPrimitive Methodist Chapel: The Primitive Methodists built a chapel at a cost of £100 and for 100 people in 1832; its is at the top of Slant Gate. A school, now demolished, was built in 1899 and the chapel was enlarged in 1926. Like the Methodist chapel in Kirkburton it too closed, this time in 1973, and is also a private house.\n"}
{"id": "1850435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850435", "title": "Louis de Beaufort", "text": "Louis de Beaufort\n\nLouis de Beaufort (6 October 1703 – 11 August 1795) was a French-Dutch historian best known for his critical approach to the history of Rome. His brother was Daniel Cornelius de Beaufort (1700-1788).\n\nBorn in The Hague to a French family of Huguenots, he lived in Utrecht and Leiden and worked as a personal tutor to the Prince of Hesse-Hombourg while at Leiden University (1739-42). In 1738 he published at Utrecht the \"Dissertation sur l'incertitude des cinq prèmiers siècles de l'histoire romaine (A Dissertation Upon the Uncertainty of the First Five Centuries of Roman History)\", in which he questioned the value of even the classical sources of the highest repute, such as Livy and Dionysius of Halicarnassus, for writing the history of the origins of ancient Rome, and pointed out by what methods and by the aid of what documents a truly scientific basis might be given to its history. While this was not an unprecedented argument, Beaufort made his case particularly forcefully and pushed against the traditional and less critical approaches adopted by esteemed historians of the time such as Charles Rollin. A German, Christopher Saxius, endeavoured to refute Beaufort's argument in a series of articles published in vols. i.-iii. of the \"Miscellanea Liviensia\". Beaufort replied by some brief and ironic \"Remarques\" in the appendix to the second edition of his \"Dissertation\" (1750).\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in October 1746 and would move to Maastricht where he died in 1795.\n\nHe also wrote an \"Histoire de Cesar Germanicus\" (Leiden, 1761), and \"La République romaine, ou plan general de l'ancien gouvernement de Rome\" (The Hague, 1766, 2 vols quarto).\n\nThough not a scholar of the first rank, Beaufort has at least the merit of having been a pioneer in raising the question, afterwards elaborated by Niebuhr, as to the credibility of early Roman history and the importance of source criticism.\n"}
{"id": "1850445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850445", "title": "Balao", "text": "Balao\n\nBalao is a town located in southern Guayas, Ecuador, near Azuay and El Oro provinces. It is the seat of Balao Canton, created in 1987.\n\nAs of the census of 2001, there are 17,262 people residing within canton limits. The city is communicated with Guayaquil and Machala. It has an airstrip.\n\nThe city and the canton take their name from a tree. The most important rivers are: the Balao River, the Jagua River, and the Gala River. The main crops are: banana, cacao, rice, maize, cassava, tomato, coffee, and tropical fruits.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850454", "title": "Ganga (music)", "text": "Ganga (music)\n\nGanga is a type of singing that originated from rural Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Montenegro. It is most commonly found in the regions of Herzegovina and Dalmatia, but it can also be heard in Lika, Karlovac and rural areas of western Montenegro. It is characterized by a lone singer singing a single line of lyrics, followed by others joining in, using a vocal style that is best described as a wail.\n\nGanga is situated mainly in small towns. The culture surrounding Ganga is protected by the Croatian Ministry of Culture to preserve its place in Croatian culture and to encourage its study. Several popular Croatian musicians have incorporated some Ganga into their work. \n\nThe folk songs of Duvno are descendants of Ganga music and also study the history of Ganga. The parallels with ojkavica from Dalmatia indicates that Zadar hinterland, Dalmatia, Imotski region and western Herzegovina sang the same type of Ganga.\n\nGanga is said to originate around the years of 1890–1900 in the area around Imotski and neighbouring Posušje. Ganga evolved from a singing called \"Brojka\", a very simple, archaic type of singing that is said to have roots in Illyrian traditions.\n\nGanga is an expressive form of singing. Recently has Ganga begun to address political issues, frequently adopting overtly nationalistic overtones and incorporating themes from the Croatian Homeland War. Although both men and women regularly perform Ganga, it is extremely unusual for them to perform together, although it was not unusual for Catholic and Muslim men to perform together.\n\nGanga is a dissonant form of singing, using two clashing notes to project sound over long distances. For example, if one person is singing a \"C\" note, a second person sings either a half-step above or below (\"B\" or \"C#\"). Ganga is traditionally sung by sheepherders across stretches of valleys, for long-distance communication with each other.\n\nGanga is sung more in the summer than in the winter, because of the lack of farming in rural areas in the winter.\n\nRera is a type of singing very similar to Ganga, it is sung around Sinj. Rera is, in rule quicker and louder than Ganga but follows the same rules as Ganga (one singer leads the song, others join in).\n\n\"Ojkanje\" refers to the characteristic style of singing with a shaking voice, often described as \"from the throat\". Elements of local folk singing is usually referred to as old or \"starovinska\" singing. Such singing in the Cetina Valley is called \"ojkavica,\" in the Dalmatian hinterland \"ojkavica or ojkača\", in Ravni Kotari and Bukovica \"orzenje\" - the rouge rozganje and in Hercegovini and \"Imotski pivanje, brojka or bećarac\". It is a remnant of Illyrian singing by local people, retained as part of their identity and history. It originated in Archaic and Medieval times, when the Illyrians were present. \"Ganga / kënga\" in Albanian (i.e. descendant of the Illyrian language branch) means just \"song\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1850458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850458", "title": "Clayton Clemens", "text": "Clayton Clemens\n\nClayton M. Clemens is a Chancellor Professor of Government and Assistant Chair of the Government Department at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, United States.\n\nHis research specialization is German politics and foreign policy. He is the editor of \"The Kohl Chancellorship\" (Frank Cass/1998) and \"NATO and the Quest for Post-Cold War Security\" (St. Martin's/1997). His articles have appeared in \"West European Politics\", \"German Politics\", \"International Affairs\", and \"Armed Forces and Society\".\n\nOriginally from Utah, Clemens received his undergraduate degree from the College of William and Mary in 1980; did his doctoral work at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University; and has taught in the Government Department at the College of William and Mary since 1985.\n\nIn 1990-91 Professor Clemens received an International Affairs Fellowship from the Council on Foreign Relations and served as a political analyst at the United States Embassy in Bonn, Germany. He was a guest professor at the University of Potsdam, in eastern Germany, in the summer of 1992. In 1992 the German Historical Institute awarded him the Alois Mertes Memorial Lectureship.\n\nHe has been asked to speak as the faculty representative at the annual senior Candlelight ceremony more than ten times.\n"}
{"id": "1850459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850459", "title": "Lathkill Dale", "text": "Lathkill Dale\n\nLathkill Dale is the valley of the River Lathkill near Bakewell, Derbyshire in the Peak District of England. The river emerges into the dale from springs below Lathkill Head Cave (or, in wet conditions, from the cave itself).\n\nThe river valley is part of the Derbyshire Dales National Nature Reserve and is popular with tourists who visit for its natural environment and wildlife. Natural England manages the reserve which covers five separate dales of the White Peak (Lathkill Dale, Cressbrook Dale, Hay Dale, Long Dale and Monk’s Dale). The dale includes two Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and areas designated as Open Access Land in the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000.\n\nLathkill Dale is known for its range of wildflower species (including orchids and the rare Jacob's ladder), butterflies, ancient woodland and the presence of birds of prey, dippers, woodpeckers and water voles.\n\nThe River Lathkill is a winterbourne stream (drying up in sections over summer). After heavy rain, clear river water rises up from sink-holes near Over Haddon and runs into deep pools known locally as The Blue Waters. Beyond this there are 12 weirs, which were built for trout fishing in Victorian times. In 1653 the poet and angler Charles Cotton wrote of the ‘Lathkin’:\n\nThe medieval sheepwash bridge Conksbury Bridge now carries the road from Bakewell to Youlgreave. The nearby deserted medieval settlement at Conksbury was recorded in the Domesday Book (1086 AD) as \"Cranchesberie\". The site of earthworks and buried remains of buildings is a Scheduled Monument. A Vickers Wellington bomber crashed near here in 1941.\n\nParsons Tor limestone crag is named after Reverend Robert Lomas of Monyash who fell to his death there, while riding his horse when drunk as he returned late at night from Bakewell in 1776.\n\nTowards the top end of the valley Ricklow Quarry used to produce crinoidal limestone (rich in fossils 350 million years old), which looks like marble when polished and was popular with the Victorians. An old mill pond with a many stepped weir and a few mill stones are all that remains of Carters Mill (an old corn mill). The iron water wheel was removed from the mill for scrap during World War II.\n\nThe narrow stone Coal Pit Bridge at Youlgreave, the limestone footbridge at Over Haddon and the gritstone bridge at Nether Haddon all cross the River Lathkill and are Grade II listed.\n\nThe dale has a long history of lead mining. Lathkill Dale and Mandale mines and soughs are a rare and well-preserved example of mining activity dating from the 13th century onwards. They include ruins of engine houses and an aqueduct and are a Scheduled Monument. In 1797 miners started to dig the Mandale Sough into the north side of the valley. The remains of the 19th-century Mandale Mine include the ruins of a pumphouse to drain the mines (using a steam Cornish pumping engine installed in 1847). Intensive mining led to underground flooding and the closure of Lathkill Mine. However. in 1825 James Bateman, the mine agent, brought in innovative equipment to overcome the flooding. A pumping engine was installed in a shaft under the building where he lived and known since as Bateman’s House. In 1836 he also erected a large and powerful waterwheel. Nevertheless, the mine became unprofitable and closed in 1842. Mandale Rake eventually closed in 1852 although individual miners continued working it until 1867.\n\nThere are parking areas near Monyash at the top end of Lathkill Dale. There is also a car park at Over Haddon leading to a steep road that descends into the dale. Roadside parking is limited at Conksbury Bridge and at Alport at the bottom end of the dale.\n"}
