{"id": "1855239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855239", "title": "Prosperity theology", "text": "Prosperity theology\n\nProsperity theology (sometimes referred to as the prosperity gospel, the health and wealth gospel, the gospel of success, or seed faith) is a religious belief among some Protestant Christians that financial blessing and physical well-being are always the will of God for them, and that faith, positive speech, and donations to religious causes will increase one's material wealth. Prosperity theology views the Bible as a contract between God and humans: if humans have faith in God, he will deliver security and prosperity.\n\nThe doctrine emphasizes the importance of personal empowerment, proposing that it is God's will for his people to be blessed. The atonement (reconciliation with God) is interpreted to include the alleviation of sickness and poverty, which are viewed as curses to be broken by faith. This is believed to be achieved through donations of money, visualization, and positive confession.\n\nIt was during the Healing Revivals of the 1950s that prosperity theology first came to prominence in the United States, although commentators have linked the origins of its theology to the New Thought movement which began in the 19th century. The prosperity teaching later figured prominently in the Word of Faith movement and 1980s televangelism. In the 1990s and 2000s, it was adopted by influential leaders in the Pentecostal Movement and Charismatic Movement in the United States and has spread throughout the world. Prominent leaders in the development of prosperity theology include E. W. Kenyon, Oral Roberts, A. A. Allen, Robert Tilton, T. L. Osborn, Joel Osteen, Creflo Dollar, Kenneth Copeland, Reverend Ike, and Kenneth Hagin.\n\nProsperity theology has been criticized by leaders from various Christian denominations, including within the Pentecostal and Charismatic movements, who maintain that it is irresponsible, promotes idolatry, and is contrary to scripture. Secular as well as some Christian observers have also criticized prosperity theology as exploitative of the poor. The practices of some preachers have attracted scandal and some have been charged with financial fraud.\n\nAccording to historian Kate Bowler, the prosperity gospel was formed from the intersection of three different ideologies: Pentecostalism, New Thought, and \"an American gospel of pragmatism, individualism, and upward mobility\". This \"American gospel\" was best exemplified by Andrew Carnegie's Gospel of Wealth and Russell Conwell's famous sermon \"Acres of Diamonds\", in which Conwell equated poverty with sin and asserted that anyone could become rich through hard work. This gospel of wealth, however, was an expression of Muscular Christianity and understood success to be the result of personal effort rather than divine intervention.\n\nThe New Thought movement, which emerged in the 1880s, was responsible for popularizing belief in the power of the mind to achieve prosperity. While initially focused on achieving mental and physical health, New Thought teachers such as Charles Fillmore made material success a major emphasis of the movement. By the 20th century, New Thought concepts had saturated American popular culture, being common features of both self-help literature and popular psychology.\n\nE. W. Kenyon, a Baptist minister and adherent of the Higher Life movement, is credited with introducing mind-power teachings into early Pentecostalism. In the 1890s, Kenyon attended Emerson College of Oratory where he was exposed to the New Thought movement. Kenyon later became connected with well-known Pentecostal leaders and wrote about supernatural revelation and positive declarations. His writing influenced leaders of the nascent prosperity movement during the post-war American healing revival. Kenyon and later leaders in the prosperity movement have denied that he was influenced by the New Thought movement. Anthropologist Simon Coleman argues that there are \"obvious parallels\" between Kenyon's teachings and New Thought.\n\nKenyon taught that Christ's substitutionary atonement secured for believers a right to divine healing. This was attained through positive, faith-filled speech; the spoken word of God allowed believers to appropriate the same spiritual power that God used to create the world and attain the provisions promised in Christ's death and resurrection. Prayer was understood to be a binding, legal act. Rather than asking, Kenyon taught believers to demand healing since they were already legally entitled to receive it.\n\nKenyon's blend of evangelical religion and mind-power beliefs—what he termed \"overcoming faith\"—resonated with a small but influential segment of the Pentecostal movement. Pentecostals had always been committed to faith healing, and the movement also possessed a strong belief in the power of speech (in particular speaking in tongues and the use of the names of God, especially the name of Jesus). Kenyon's ideas would be reflected in the teachings of Pentecostal evangelists F. F. Bosworth and John G. Lake (who co-led a congregation with New Thought author Albert C. Grier prior to 1915).\n\nWhile Kenyon's teachings on overcoming faith laid the groundwork for the prosperity gospel, the first generation of Pentecostals influenced by him and other figures, such as Bosworth, did not view faith as a means to attain material prosperity. In fact, early Pentecostals tended to view prosperity as a threat to a person's spiritual well-being. By the 1940s and 1950s, however, a recognizable form of the doctrine began to take shape within the Pentecostal movement through the teachings of deliverance and healing evangelists. Combining prosperity teaching with revivalism and faith healing, these evangelists taught \"the laws of faith ('ask and ye shall receive') and the laws of divine reciprocity ('give and it will be given back unto you')\".\n\nOral Roberts began teaching prosperity theology in 1947. He explained the laws of faith as a \"blessing pact\" in which God would return donations \"seven fold\", promising that donors would receive back from unexpected sources the money they donated to him. Roberts offered to return any donation that did not lead to an equivalent unexpected payment. In the 1970s, Roberts characterized his blessing pact teaching as the \"seed faith\" doctrine: donations were a form of \"seed\" which would grow in value and be returned to the donor. Roberts began recruiting \"partners\", wealthy donors who received exclusive conference invitations and ministry access in exchange for support.\n\nIn 1953, faith healer A. A. Allen published \"The Secret to Scriptural Financial Success\" and promoted merchandise such as \"miracle tent shavings\" and prayer cloths anointed with \"miracle oil\". In the late 1950s, Allen increasingly focused on prosperity. He taught that faith could miraculously solve financial problems and claimed to have had a miraculous experience in which God supernaturally changed one-dollar bills into twenty-dollar bills to allow him to pay his debts. Allen taught the \"word of faith\" or the power to speak something into being.\n\nIn the 1960s, prosperity became a primary focus in healing revivals. T. L. Osborn began emphasizing prosperity in the 1960s and became known for his often ostentatious displays of personal wealth. During that decade, Roberts and William Branham criticized other prosperity ministries, arguing that their fund-raising tactics unfairly pressured attendees. These tactics were prompted in part by the expense of developing nationwide radio networks and campaign schedules. At the same time, leaders of the Pentecostal Assemblies of God denomination often criticized the focus on prosperity taken by independent healing evangelists.\n\nDuring the 1960s, prosperity gospel teachers embraced televangelism and came to dominate religious programming in the United States. Oral Roberts was among the first, developing a syndicated weekly program that became the most watched religious show in the United States. By 1968, television had supplanted the tent meeting in his ministry.\n\nReverend Ike, a pastor from New York City, began preaching about prosperity in the late 1960s. He soon had widely aired radio and television programs and became distinguished for his flashy style. His openness about love for material possessions and teachings about the \"Science of the Mind\" led many evangelists to distance themselves from him.\n\nIn the 1980s, public attention in the United States was drawn to prosperity theology through the influence of prominent televangelists such as Jim Bakker. Bakker's influence waned, however, after he was implicated in a high-profile scandal. In the aftermath, Trinity Broadcasting Network (TBN) emerged as the dominant force in prosperity televangelism, having brought Robert Tilton and Benny Hinn to prominence.\n\nAlthough nearly all of the healing evangelists of the 1940s and 1950s taught that faith could bring financial rewards, a new prosperity-oriented teaching developed in the 1970s that differed from the one taught by Pentecostal evangelists of the 1950s. This \"Positive Confession\" or \"Word of Faith\" movement taught that a Christian with faith can speak into existence anything consistent with the will of God.\n\nKenneth Hagin was credited with a key role in the expansion of prosperity theology. He founded the RHEMA Bible Training Center in 1974, and over the next 20 years, the school trained more than 10,000 students in his theology. As is true of other prosperity movements, there is no theological governing body for the Word of Faith movement, and well-known ministries differ on some theological issues, though many ministries are unofficially linked. The teachings of Kenneth Hagin have been described by Candy Gunther Brown of Indiana University as the most \"orthodox\" form of Word of Faith prosperity teaching.\n\nBy the late 2000s, proponents claimed that tens of millions of Christians had accepted prosperity theology. The Neo-Pentecostal movement has been characterized in part by an emphasis on prosperity theology, which gained greater acceptance within charismatic Christianity during the late 1990s. In the 2000s, churches teaching prosperity theology saw significant growth in the Third World. According to Philip Jenkins of Pennsylvania State University, poor citizens of impoverished countries often find the doctrine appealing because of their economic powerlessness and the doctrine's emphasis on miracles. One region seeing explosive growth is Western Africa, particularly Nigeria. In the Philippines, the El Shaddai movement, part of the Catholic Charismatic Renewal, has spread prosperity theology outside Protestant Christianity. One South Korean prosperity church, Yoido Full Gospel Church, gained attention in the 1990s by claiming to be the world's largest congregation.\n\nA 2006 poll by \"Time\" reported that 17% of Christians in America said they identified with the movement. By the 2000s, adherents of prosperity theology in the United States were most common in the Sun Belt. By 2006, three of the four largest congregations in the United States were teaching prosperity theology, and Joel Osteen has been credited with spreading it outside of the Pentecostal and Charismatic movement through his books, which have sold over 4 million copies. Bruce Wilkinson's \"The Prayer of Jabez\" also sold millions of copies and invited readers to seek prosperity.\n\nIn 2005, Matthew Ashimolowo, the founder of the largely African Kingsway International Christian Centre in southern England, which preaches a \"health and wealth\" gospel and collects regular tithes, was ordered by the Charity Commission to repay money he had appropriated for his personal use. In 2017, the organisation was under criminal investigation after a leading member was found by a court in 2015 to have operated a Ponzi scheme between 2007 and 2011, losing or spending £8 million of investors' money.\n\nIn 2007, U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley opened a probe into the finances of six televangelism ministries that promoted prosperity theology: Kenneth Copeland Ministries, Creflo Dollar Ministries, Benny Hinn Ministries, Bishop Eddie Long Ministries, Joyce Meyer Ministries, and Paula White Ministries. In January 2011, Grassley concluded his investigation stating that he believed self-regulation by religious organizations was preferable to government action. Only the ministries led by Meyer and Hinn cooperated with Grassley's investigation.\n\nThe inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States featured prayers from two preachers known for advocating prosperity theology. Paula White, one of Trump's spiritual advisers, gave the invocation.\n\nProsperity theology teaches that Christians are entitled to well-being and, because physical and spiritual realities are seen as one inseparable reality, interprets well-being as physical health and economic prosperity. Teachers of the doctrine focus on personal empowerment, promoting a positive view of the spirit and body. They maintain that Christians have been given power over creation because they are made in the image of God and teach that positive confession allows Christians to exercise dominion over their souls and material objects around them. Leaders of the movement view the atonement as providing for the alleviation of sickness, poverty, and spiritual corruption; poverty and illness are cast as curses which can be broken by faith and righteous actions. There are, however, some prosperity churches which seek a more moderate or reformed paradigm of prosperity. Kirbyjon Caldwell, pastor of a Methodist mega-church, supports a theology of abundant life, teaching prosperity for the whole human being, which he sees as a path to combating poverty.\n\nWealth is interpreted in prosperity theology as a blessing from God, obtained through a spiritual law of positive confession, visualization, and donations. Believers may see this process in almost mechanical terms; Kenneth Copeland, an American author and televangelist, argues that prosperity is governed by laws, while other teachers portray the process formulaically. Journalists David van Biema and Jeff Chu of \"Time\" have described Word of Faith pastor Creflo Dollar's teachings about prosperity as an inviolable contract between God and humanity.\n\nThe prosperity theology teaching of positive confession stems from its proponents' view of scripture. The Bible is seen as a faith contract between God and believers; God is understood to be faithful and just, so believers must fulfill their end of the contract to receive God's promises. This leads to a belief in positive confession: the doctrine that believers may claim whatever they desire from God, simply by speaking it. Prosperity theology teaches that the Bible has promised prosperity for believers, so positive confession means that believers are speaking in faith what God has already spoken about them. Positive confession is practiced to bring about what is already believed-in; faith itself is a confession, and speaking it brings it into reality.\n\nThe teaching often depends on non-traditional interpretations of Bible verses, the Book of Malachi often being given special attention. While Christians have generally celebrated Malachi for its passages about the Messiah, teachers of prosperity theology usually draw attention to its descriptions of physical wealth. Frequently quoted verses include:\n\n\nProsperity theology casts itself as the reclamation of true doctrine and thus part of a path to Christian dominion over secular society. It contends that God's promises of prosperity and victory to Israel in the Old Testament apply to New-Covenant Christians today, and that faith and holy actions release this prosperity. C. Peter Wagner, a leader of the New Apostolic Reformation, has argued that if Christians take dominion over aspects of society, the Earth will experience \"peace and prosperity\". Some Latin Americans who have embraced prosperity theology argue that Christianity has historically placed an unnecessary focus on suffering. They often view this as a Roman Catholic doctrine that should be discarded and replaced with an emphasis on prosperity. Prosperity-theology advocates also argue that biblical promises of blessings awaiting the poor have been unnecessarily spiritualized, and should be understood literally.\n\nProsperity churches place a strong emphasis on the importance of giving. Some services include a teaching-time focused on giving and prosperity, including Biblical references to tithing; and then a sermon on another topic which follows the offering. Prosperity-church leaders often claim that a specific blessing can be exchanged for the money being donated to their ministry; some have been reported to instruct worshipers to hold their donations above their heads during the prayer. \n\nCongregants in prosperity churches are encouraged to speak positive statements about aspects of their lives that they wish to see improved. These statements, known as \"positive confessions\" (distinct from confessions of sin), are said to miraculously change aspects of people's lives if spoken with faith. Prosperity churches also encourage people to \"live without limits\" and to cultivate optimism about their lives. T. D. Jakes, pastor of The Potter's House non-denominational mega-church, has argued in favor of prosperity, rejecting what he sees as the demonization of success. He views poverty as a barrier to living a Christian life, suggesting that it is easier to make a positive impact on society when one is affluent.\n\nWhile some prosperity churches have a reputation for manipulating and alienating the poor, many are involved in social programs. Underlying these programs is a theology of empowerment and human flourishing with the goal of releasing people from a \"welfare\" or \"victim\" mentality. Many prosperity churches hold seminars on financial responsibility. Kate Bowler, an academic who studies prosperity theology, has criticized such seminars, arguing that though they contain some sound advice, the seminars often emphasize the purchase of expensive possessions. Hanna Rosin of \"The Atlantic\" argues that prosperity theology contributed to the housing bubble that caused the late-2000s financial crisis. She maintains that prosperity churches heavily emphasized home ownership based on reliance on divine financial intervention that led to unwise choices based on actual financial ability.\n\nMost churches in the prosperity movement are non-denominational and independent, though some groups have formed networks. Prosperity churches typically reject presbyterian polity (or governance) and the idea that a pastor should be accountable to elders; it is common for pastors of prosperity churches to be the highest organizational authority-figure. Critics, including Sarah Posner and Joe Conason, maintain that prosperity teachers cultivate authoritarian organizations. They argue that leaders attempt to control the lives of adherents by claiming divinely-bestowed authority. Jenkins contends that prosperity theology is used as a tool to justify the high salaries of pastors.\n\nIn the United States, the movement has drawn many followers from the middle class and is most popular in commuter towns and urban areas. In \"Exporting the American Gospel: Global Christian Fundamentalism\" Steve Brouwer, Paul Gifford, and Susan Rose speculate that the movement was fueled by a prevailing disdain for social liberalism in the United States that began in the 1970s. Rosin argues that prosperity theology emerged because of broader trends, particularly American economic optimism in the 1950s and 1990s. Tony Lin of the University of Virginia has also compared the teaching to manifest destiny, the 19th-century belief that the United States was entitled to the West. Marvin Harris argues that the doctrine's focus on the material world is a symptom of the secularization of American religion. He sees it as an attempt to fulfill the American Dream by using supernatural power.\n\nProsperity theology has become popular among poor Americans, particularly those who seek personal and social advancement. It has seen significant growth in black and Hispanic churches and is particularly popular among immigrants. Apologists for the movement note its ethnic diversity and argue that it encompasses a variety of views. Joel Robbins of Cambridge University notes that most anthropologists attribute the theology's appeal to the poor—especially in the Global South—to the fact that it promises security and helps explain capitalism. Simon Coleman developed a theory based on the doctrine's rhetoric and the feeling of belonging it gave parishioners. In a study of the Swedish Word of Life Church, he noted that members felt part of a complex gift-exchange system, giving to God and then awaiting a gift in return (either from God directly or through another church member). Hillsong Church, the largest congregation in Australia, teaches a form of prosperity theology that emphasizes personal success. Marion Maddox has argued that this message has drawn a significant number of upwardly mobile Australians. Scott Morrison, who became the 30th Prime Minister of Australia in August 2018, is a member of Horizon Church, a Pentecostal church that believes in prosperity theology.\n\nIn a 1998 interview in \"Christianity Today\", Bong Rin Ro of the Asia Graduate School of Theology suggested that the growth in popularity of prosperity theology in South Korea reflects a strong \"shamanistic influence\". Bong pointed to parallels between the tradition of paying shamans for healing and the prosperity theology's contractual doctrine about giving and blessings. Asia's economic problems, he argued, encouraged the growth of the doctrine in South Korea, though he claims it ignores the poor and needy. During the interview, he stated that he saw the problem beginning to be reversed, citing calls for renewed faith and other practices. Cho Yong-gi, pastor of Yoido Full Gospel Church in Seoul, has been criticized for shamanising Christianity. This criticism has focused on his healing and exorcism ministries and his promise of material blessings. Malaysian Christian writer Hwa Yung has defended Cho's healing and exorcism ministries, arguing that he successfully contextualized the Gospel in a culture where shamanism was still prevalent. However, Hwa criticizes Cho's teaching of earthly blessings for not reflecting a trust in God's daily provision and for their heavy focus on earthly wealth.\n\nHistorian Carter Lindberg of Boston University has drawn parallels between contemporary prosperity theology and the medieval indulgence trade. Comparisons have also been made to Calvinism, but John T. McNeill disputes the widespread semi-Weberian idea that Calvinism promoted the idea of prosperity as a marker of the elect. Coleman notes that several pre–20th century Christian movements in the United States taught that a holy lifestyle was a path to prosperity and that God-ordained hard work would bring blessing.\n\nColeman has speculated that modern-day prosperity theology borrows heavily from the New Thought movement, though he admits that the connection is sometimes unclear. Jenkins notes that critics draw a parallel between prosperity theology and the cargo cult phenomenon. While citing the popularity of prosperity theology in agrarian African communities, he argues that it can also bear similarities to traditional African religious rituals. J. Matthew Wilson of Southern Methodist University compares the movement to Black theology owing to its focus on uplifting oppressed groups, though he notes that it differs in its concentration on individual success rather than corporate political change.\n\nObservers have proposed that some doctrines and beliefs found in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) are reminiscent of prosperity theology, such as a similar interpretation of Malachi 3:10 found among LDS members as among Protestant prosperity theology and LDS lesson manuals teaching a \"prosperity cycle\" that shows material wealth follows from obedience to God.\n\nMainstream evangelicalism has consistently opposed prosperity theology as heresy and prosperity ministries have frequently come into conflict with other Christian groups, including those within the Pentecostal and Charismatic movements. Critics, such as Evangelical pastor Michael Catt, have argued that prosperity theology has little in common with traditional Christian theology. Prominent evangelical leaders, such as Rick Warren, Ben Witherington III, and Jerry Falwell, have harshly criticized the movement, sometimes denouncing it as heretical. Warren proposes that prosperity theology promotes the idolatry of money, and others argue that Jesus' teachings indicate a disdain for material wealth. In \"Mark: Jesus, Servant and Savior\", R. Kent Hughes notes that some 1st-century rabbis portrayed material blessings as a sign of God's favor. He cites Jesus' statement in Mark 10:25 that \"It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God\" (KJV) as evidence to oppose such thinking.\n\nOther critics of the movement assail promises made by its leaders, arguing that the broad freedom from problems they promise is irresponsible. Televangelists are often criticized for abusing the faith of their listeners by enriching themselves through large donations. Prosperity theology has been opposed for not adequately explaining the poverty of the Apostles. For instance, some theologians believe that the life and writings of Paul the Apostle, who is believed to have experienced significant suffering during his ministry, are particularly in conflict with prosperity theology. Cathleen Falsani, religion writer in an opinion piece in \"The Washington Post\", points to the conflict with basic Christian teachings \"Jesus was born poor, and he died poor. During his earthly tenure, he spoke time and again about the importance of spiritual wealth and health. When he talked about material wealth, it was usually part of a cautionary tale.\"\n\nIn their book \"Health, Wealth and Happiness\", theologians David Jones and Russell Woodbridge characterize the doctrine as poor theology. They suggest that righteousness cannot be earned and that the Bible does not promise an easy life. They argue that it is inconsistent with the gospel of Jesus and propose that the central message of the gospel should be Jesus' life, death, and resurrection. Jones and Woodbridge see Jesus' importance as vital, criticizing the prosperity gospel for marginalizing him in favor of a focus on human need. In another article, Jones criticizes the prosperity theology interpretation of the Abrahamic covenant, God's promise to bless Abraham's descendants, arguing that this blessing is spiritual and should already apply to all Christians. He also argues that the proponents of the doctrine misconstrue the atonement, criticizing their teaching that Jesus' death took away poverty as well as sin. He believes that this teaching is drawn from a misunderstanding of Jesus' life and criticizes John Avanzini's teaching that Jesus was wealthy as a misrepresentation, noting that Paul often taught Christians to give up their material possessions. Although he accepts giving as \"praiseworthy\", he questions the motives of prosperity theology and criticizes the \"Law of Compensation\", which teaches that when Christians give generously, God will give back more in return. Rather, Jones cites Jesus' teaching to \"give, hoping for nothing in return\". Jones and Woodbridge also note that Jesus instructed followers to focus on spiritual rewards, citing his command in Matthew 6:19–20 \"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth ... But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven\" (KJV). Jones criticizes the doctrine's view of faith: he does not believe that it should be used as a spiritual force for material gain but seen as selfless acceptance of God.\n\nIn 1980, the General Council of the Assemblies of God criticized the doctrine of positive confession, noting examples of negative confessions in the Bible (where Biblical figures express fears and doubts) that had positive results and contrasting these examples with the focus on positive confessions taught by prosperity theology. The Council argues that the biblical Greek word often translated as \"confess\" literally translates as \"to speak the same thing\", and refers to both positive and negative confessions. The statement also criticizes the doctrine for failing to recognize the will of God: God's will should have precedence over the will of man, including their desires for wealth, and Christians should \"recognize the sovereignty of God\". The statement further criticizes prosperity theology for overlooking the importance of prayer, arguing that prayer should be used for all requests, not simply positive confession. The Council noted that Christians should expect suffering in this life. They urge readers to apply practical tests to positive confession, arguing that the doctrine appeals to those who are already in affluent societies but that many Christians in other societies are impoverished or imprisoned. Finally, the paper criticizes the distinction made by advocates of prosperity theology in the two Greek words that mean \"speaking\", arguing that the distinction is false and that they are used interchangeably in the Greek text. The Council accused prosperity theology of taking passages out of context to fulfill its own needs, with the result that doctrine of positive confession is contradictory to the holistic message of the Bible.\n\nIn April 2015, LDS apostle Dallin H. Oaks stated that people who believe in \"the theology of prosperity\" are deceived by riches. He continued by saying that the \"possession of wealth or significant income is not a mark of heavenly favor, and their absence is not evidence of heavenly disfavor\". He also cited how Jesus differentiated the attitudes towards money held by the young rich man in Mark 10:17–24, the good Samaritan, and Judas Iscariot in his betrayal. Oaks concluded this portion of his sermon by highlighting that the \"root of all evil is not money but the love of money\". However, Mormonism has a tradition of entrepreneurship and unlike adherents of most mainline Protestant denominations, have very little ambivalence about the acquisition of wealth. A \"Harper's Magazine\" article asserted that Mormon beliefs were like the prosperity gospel and Protestant work ethic \"on steroids.\"\n\nIn 2015, well known pastor and prosperity gospel advocate Creflo Dollar launched a fundraising campaign to replace a previous private jet with a $65 million Gulfstream G650. On the August 16, 2015 episode of his HBO weekly series \"Last Week Tonight\", John Oliver satirized prosperity theology by announcing that he had established his own tax-exempt church, called Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption. In a lengthy segment, Oliver focused on what he characterized as the predatory conduct of televangelists who appeal for repeated gifts from people in financial distress or personal crises, and he criticized the very loose requirements for entities to obtain tax exempt status as churches under U.S. tax law. Oliver said that he would ultimately donate any money collected by the church to Doctors Without Borders.\n\nIn July 2018, Antonio Spadaro and Marcelo Figueroa, in the Jesuit journal \"La Civiltà Cattolica\", examined the origins of the prosperity gospel in the United States and described it as a reductive version of the American Dream which had offered opportunities of success and prosperity unreachable in the Old World. The authors distinguished the prosperity gospel from Max Weber's Protestant ethic, noting that the Protestant ethic related prosperity to religiously inspired austerity while the prosperity gospel saw prosperity as the simple result of personal faith. They criticized many aspects of the prosperity gospel, noting particularly the tendency of believers to lack compassion for the poor, since their poverty was seen as a sign that they had not followed the rules and therefore are not loved by God.\n\nIn 2019, the documentary \"American Gospel: Christ Alone\" presented a number of critical analyses of the prosperity gospel while following the stories of individuals whose lives had intersected with prosperity teachings, including Costi Hinn, nephew of Benny Hinn.\n\nNotable works that advocate prosperity theology include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855240", "title": "Dan Spitz", "text": "Dan Spitz\n\nDaniel Alan Spitz (born January 28, 1963) is an American musician and watchmaker best known for his work as the lead guitarist of the American heavy metal band Anthrax from 1983 to 1995 and from 2005 to 2008. With Anthrax, Spitz was nominated for three Grammy awards and earned several platinum albums. Spitz also founded the Christian music group Red Lamb, which was known for lyrics on autism awareness. Spitz has earned Swiss and American degrees in luxury mechanical watchmaking and micro-mechanical engineering, certified as watchmaker instructor for the North American operations of Swiss watch company Chopard.\n\nDan Spitz was an early member of Overkill in 1981 and joined Anthrax in 1983. From 1983 to 1995, he was lead guitarist and backing vocalist on the Anthrax albums \"Fistful of Metal\", \"Armed and Dangerous\", \"Spreading the Disease\", \"Among the Living\", \"State of Euphoria\", \"Persistence of Time\" and \"Sound of White Noise\", earning him multiple RIAA-certified gold and platinum records. Anthrax sold more than 30 million albums worldwide during this period.\n\nIn 1995, Spitz left Anthrax to pursue a career in luxury Swiss watchmaking, attending the Swiss watchmaking school WOSTEP on a full scholarship. He was certified a Mechanical Complications Specialist, earning Swiss degrees in micro-mechanical engineering, and opened his own luxury watch service. In 2012 Spitz was voted the number 1 interview of the year for the watchmaking magazine \"Hodinkee\". In 2016, the production company Great Big Story produced a documentary on Spitz's work as a watchmaker.\n\nSpitz reunited with Anthrax for a classic lineup reunion tour in 2005, appearing on the tour DVD \"Alive 2\". He left the band again in 2008 to return to his watchmaking career. In 2010 Spitz formed a new Christian rock/metal band Red Lamb, which also included singer Don Chaffin from Voices of Extreme and keyboardist Chris Vrenna. Dave Mustaine was an early member but ultimately stepped back into a songwriting role with Spitz. Mustaine and Spitz wrote the song \"Puzzle Box\" which was claimed to be the first heavy metal song to deal with autism; the song's video featured Bob and Suzanne Wright, co-founders of Autism Speaks. In 2017, Spitz formed another Christian metal band with former Journey drummer Deen Castronovo.\n\nSpitz was born in a small town in Rockland County, New York as the second son of a lawyer and a high school substitute teacher. Spitz comes from an orthodox Levite tribe Jewish family and converted to Christianity / Messianic Judaism in 1993. His older brother is heavy metal bassist/guitarist Dave Spitz.\n\nSpitz has two daughters from his first marriage. Spitz also has identical twin sons who were born in 2007; they were diagnosed with autism at 16 months of age. The Spitz twins were in numerous movies and television commercials before their autism diagnosis, including the film \"Away We Go\".\n\nIn June 2009, Spitz had a massive heart attack, causing him to undergo an emergency triple bypass. He fully recovered but required stents in many arteries.\n\nSpitz divorced his second wife in 2014.\n\nSpitz was originally known for his use of Jackson Guitars (he was famous for his Jackson Randy Rhoads model with the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles painted on them), and he collaborated on guitar designs with Grover Jackson. During the Anthrax Reunion tour, Spitz endorsed Paul Reed Smith Guitars, using a custom model with a \"Spitz\" head stock. This guitar was also painted with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles by tattoo artist and painter JR Linton. Spitz terminated his endorsement with PRS after leaving Anthrax in 2007.\n\nIn the early days of Anthrax, Spitz used Marshall amplifiers, using one of the first incarnations of a pre JCM800 derived from a collaboration with Jim Marshall. Around the time of \"Among the Living,\" Spitz switched to Mesa/Boogie, using many Mark IIC heads modified by Spitz. During the Anthrax Reunion in 2005–2007, Spitz used Matchless heads and Marshall point-to-point wired 2203 modded heads he hand-built himself that were pushed by a Keeley-modded Boss DS-1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855242", "title": "The Songs All Sound the Same", "text": "The Songs All Sound the Same\n\nThe Songs All Sound the Same is a singles collection by the American rock and roll band Supersuckers. It was originally released in 1992 on eMpTy Records. This album led ultimately to the signing of the band with Sub Pop. It was remastered and released on the Mid-Fi label with three bonus tracks, new artwork, and liner notes by Eddie Spaghetti in\n2001.\n\nNote, tracks marked \"bonus\" only appear on the 2001 Mid-Fi re-release.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855244", "title": "List of Korean Air destinations", "text": "List of Korean Air destinations\n\nKorean Air flies to 12 domestic destinations and almost 120 international destinations in fifty countries on six continents (except seasonal charter), including destinations for cargo services.\n"}
{"id": "1855245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855245", "title": "The Death of General Wolfe", "text": "The Death of General Wolfe\n\nThe Death of General Wolfe is a 1770 painting by Anglo-American artist Benjamin West, commemorating the 1759 Battle of Quebec, where General James Wolfe died at the moment of victory. The painting contains vivid suggestions of martyrdom, and broke a standard rule of historical portraiture by featuring individuals who had not been present at the scene, dressed in modern instead of classical costumes. The painting has become one of the best-known images in English art.\n\n\"The Death of General Wolfe\" depicts the Battle of Quebec, also known as the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, on September 13, 1759. This was a pivotal event in the Seven Years' War and decided the fate of France's colonies in North America.\n\nThe battle was fought between the British Army and the French Army; the pitched fighting lasted only fifteen minutes. The British Army was commanded by General Wolfe. Although successful in holding the British line against the French and winning the battle, General Wolfe was mortally wounded by several gunshots.\n\nIn death, General Wolfe gained fame as a national hero. He became an icon of the Seven Years' War and of British dominance in late eighteenth century North America.\n\nWest depicts General Wolfe as a Christ-like figure. This painting has a triangular composition, made by the top of the flag (as the apex) and the positions of the men. It resembles Christian \"Lamentation\" scenes, where Christ is held in the embrace of the Virgin Mary.\n\nCaptain Hervey Smythe is pictured holding Wolfe's right arm.\n\nThe depiction of the Indigenous warrior in the painting—kneeling with his chin on his fist, looking at General Wolfe—has been analyzed in various ways. In art, the touching of one's face with one's hand is a sign of deep thought and intelligence (thus Rodin's \"The Thinker\"). Some consider it an idealization inspired by the noble savage concept. Original items of clothing that were used as a model for portraying the warrior in the painting can be found in the British Museum's collection (as well as additional First Nation artefacts used in other paintings by West).\n\nOn the ground in front of Wolfe are his musket, cartridge box, and bayonet. Wolfe went into battle armed as his men were, although his musket was of higher quality. His dress is also of note. He is wearing a red coat, a red waistcoat, red breeches, and a white shirt. Such dress was rather simple, especially for a commanding officer.\n\nNext to Wolfe, in the blue jacket, is Dr Thomas Hinde, who is attempting to stem the bleeding from Wolfe's wounds. The general later died in the doctor's hands.\n\nIn the background, and to the left of the men surrounding Wolfe, an approaching runner is depicted. He is waving his hat in one hand to attract their attention, and with the other hand carries a captured flag with the Fleur-de-lis (a symbol of France)—symbolic of the news relayed to the dying Wolfe that the French were being defeated.\n\nThe inclusion of Simon Fraser, Lieutenant Colonel of the 78th Fraser Highlanders (behind the man in green uniform, identified in the painting as Sir William Johnson) is interesting, as General Wolfe reportedly spoke highly of Fraser's regiment, yet Fraser was not at the battle, as he was recovering from wounds received earlier. In the painting, Fraser wears the Fraser tartan, which was probably worn by officers in that regiment. All in all only four of the fourteen men depicted were actually at the battleground.\n\nWest's choice to depict his subjects in contemporary clothing was highly controversial at the time. Although the depicted events had taken place only eleven years prior, the prevailing convention of West's time would have been to convey such subject matter in a history painting; an artistic tradition in which the portrayal of contemporary dress was considered unsuitable. During the painting process, Sir Joshua Reynolds instructed West to clothe the subjects in classical attire, to which West declined. After completion of the painting, George III refused to purchase it, believing that West's choice of clothing compromised the dignity of the image. However, subsequent years brought a shift in opinion and artistic convention, and the painting was largely redeemed, overcoming earlier objections and inaugurating a practice of greater contemporary accuracy in history painting.\nThe painting was originally exhibited at the Royal Academy in London, England. It was presented to Canada in 1921 as a tribute for its service in the First World War.\n\nWilliam Woollett's engraving was the best-known copy of West's original painting and became popular around the world. A black-and-white copy of the engraving can be seen at Brodick Castle on the Isle of Arran, Scotland.\n\nBesides the original, at least four other additional versions of the \"Death of General Wolfe\" were also produced by West. The primary copy of \"The Death of General Wolfe\" is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada, with further examples kept at the Royal Ontario Museum (as part of the Canadiana art collection) and the William L. Clements Library at the University of Michigan. The fourth copy produced resides at Ickworth House, Suffolk, England. Each reproduction had its own variation in the depiction of Wolfe's death. A fifth autograph copy was commissioned by George III in 1771 and is still in the Royal Collection.\n\nWest's depiction of Wolfe's death in the midst of battle is figurative rather than literal.\n\nThe painting, though widely celebrated, has also been heavily criticized in its historically inaccurate portrayal of Wolfe's death itself. For example, the stature of the observing Native American figure and the prominent figures surrounding Wolfe as he lay dying are a great example of artistic interpretation.\n\nThere is no evidence that any figures surrounding Wolfe in the painting were actually present at his death. All the figures in the painting were senior military figures and would have been busy elsewhere in battle because Wolfe died at the height of the Battle itself and not after.\n\nHowever, West's choice to show General Wolfe's death in the figurative manner of a dying martyr, many compare to Christ, transforms Wolfe's death from a simple casualty of war to one of a hero that symbolized the British cause.\n\nDespite the fact that the painting is a more dramatized version of Wolfe's death than reality, West's work was groundbreaking for art of its time.\n\nPreviously, contemporary scenes were painted in a Greek and Roman setting. Others advised West against using realistic eighteenth-century visuals such as modern costumes. Although Wolfe's death had already been painted by at least two other artists prior to West and those paintings also strove to portray Wolfe and his death in a more realistic style, the success of West's painting helped to further establish a new style of art that others had already begun to pioneer.\n\nWolfe's death and the portrayal of that event by Benjamin West make up half of Simon Schama's historical work \"Dead Certainties: Unwarranted Speculations\" (1991).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855252", "title": "New Mexico State Capitol", "text": "New Mexico State Capitol\n\nThe New Mexico State Capitol, located in Santa Fe at 490 Old Santa Fe Trail, is the house of government of the U.S. state of New Mexico. It is the only round state capitol in the United States, and is known informally as \"the Roundhouse\".\n\nThe building was designed to resemble the Zia sun symbol when viewed from above, with four entrance wings that protrude from the main cylindrical volume. Architecturally, the Capitol is a blend of New Mexico Territorial Revival style and neoclassical influences. Above each entrance is a stone carving of the State Seal of New Mexico. The building has four levels, one of which is below ground.\n\nDedicated on December 8, 1966, the building was designed by W.C. Kruger and constructed by Robert E. McKee. Its extensive marble-work was installed by the New Mexico Marble and Tile Company. The capitol contains 232,346 square feet (22,000 m²) and was built for the cost of $4,676,860, or $20 per square foot ($215/m²).\n\nThe capitol houses the New Mexico State Legislature. The first floor (below ground) contains the semicircular House and Senate chambers, which are not accessible to the public. The second story, which is the ground floor, includes galleries where visitors can view the House and Senate chambers. The House gallery seats 281 people and is located on the south side of the building. The Senate gallery, which seats 206 people, is on the north side of the building. The two upper floors are mainly offices, with legislative committee offices on the third floor and the offices of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and Legislative Council Service on the fourth floor.\nThe Rotunda in the center of the building is in diameter and high, spanning the second, third, and fourth floors. The Rotunda is finished with Travertine marble native to New Mexico and inlaid with a turquoise and brass mosaic of the Great Seal of New Mexico. The ceiling skylight is designed to resemble an Indian basket weave, with blue and pale pink stained glass representing the sky and the earth, respectively. The flags of New Mexico’s 33 counties are on permanent display on the fourth floor balcony.\n\nSurrounding the capitol is a lush garden boasting more than 100 varieties of plants, including roses, plums, almonds, nectarines, Russian olive trees, and sequoias. Statues of native Pueblo peoples carrying pottery and hunting dot the property.\n\nA renovation in 1992 included expansion of the committee rooms, asbestos abatement, mechanical and electrical improvements and greater accessibility for handicapped people. The building was rededicated on December 4, 1992.\n\nThe Legislature created the Capitol Art Foundation in 1991, which has since become one of the building's most endearing features. The Foundation was created to assist in the acquisition of art for permanent, public exhibition in the State Capitol. The Collection features contemporary masterworks by artists who live and work in New Mexico. The Capitol Art collection is housed throughout the public areas of the building on all four floors. The Collection consists of a wide range of media, styles and traditions, including handcrafted furniture groupings. The mission of the Capitol Art Foundation is to collect, preserve, exhibit, interpret and promote appreciation of works of art that represent the history, cultures and art forms of the people of New Mexico.\n\nThe Governor's Gallery is located on the fourth floor of the New Mexico State Capitol. It was conceptualized and created by Allan Pearson, cultural liaison to Governor Jerry Apodaca in 1975 as a space to educate the public about the artistic heritage of the state. The first exhibition featured paintings made by Georgia O'Keeffe. It rotates exhibitions several times a year, with the annual Governor's Awards for Excellence in the Arts exhibition held every fall.\n\nThe Roundhouse is the fourth Capitol building of New Mexico. The state boasts not only the third-newest capitol in the U.S. (only those in Hawaii and Florida, completed in 1969 and 1978, respectively, are newer) but also the oldest, the Palace of the Governors.\n\nBuilt in 1610 by the Spanish, the Palace of the Governors is located on the Santa Fe Plaza. It was the house of government in Santa Fe for nearly three centuries, during periods of Spanish and Mexican rule. When New Mexico was annexed by the United States in 1846, it became the first territorial capitol and was used as such for forty years. Now a museum, the Palace is the only capitol in the U.S. that has housed the governments of three different nations.\n\nIn anticipation of New Mexico's statehood, work began on a new capitol building in 1850. However, the funding for its construction was quickly exhausted, and in 1855 work on the project was halted with only the first story of the building completed. It remained in this state until 1886, when the second story and roof were finally finished. However, by this time a new territorial capitol was already being constructed, so the old building was never officially used as the capitol. (It did temporarily house the territorial government between 1892 and 1900.) Instead, it became the Territorial (later Federal) Courthouse. This building still stands in its original form.\n\nIn 1886, a new building replaced the antiquated Palace of the Governors as the territorial capitol. Four stories high, the monumental building was constructed from sandstone quarried in Lamy and topped by colossal bronze statues representing Liberty, Justice, Commerce and Industry. It was designed by Chicago architect E. S. Jennison. Six years after its opening, on the evening of May 12, 1892, a fire began and destroyed the structure, though bystanders were able to save most of the archives, books, and furniture. The building was uninsured and its loss cost the state over $200,000.\nAn investigation concluded the fire was set deliberately, as it reportedly broke out in two separate areas simultaneously and a crucial emergency hose seemed to have been sabotaged.\n\nThe identity and motive of the perpetrator were never determined.\n\nThe next capitol building, designed by Isaac Rapp, was not completed until 1900. In the meantime, the government was housed in the Territorial Court House, and the adjoining judicial offices. After the costly loss of the previous building, the new capitol was completed on a shoestring budget of less than $140,000, using salvaged materials and unpaid convict labor from the Penitentiary of New Mexico to save money. The building was three stories high with a silver dome, cupola, and neoclassical portico. The first story was constructed from sandstone reused from the old capitol, while the second and third floors were yellow brick and the portico was Indiana limestone. It was dedicated on June 4, 1900.\n\nIn this building, at 1:35 P.M., January 6, 1912, President William Taft signed the proclamation admitting New Mexico as the 47th state of the Union. He then turned to the delegation and said, \"Well, it is all over. I am glad to give you life. I hope you will be healthy.\"\nDuring the next several decades, various additions were built adjacent to the capitol building. In 1950 a major project was begun to unify the architectural appearance of all the buildings in the government complex to the Territorial Revival style. The dome, which had often been criticized as not appropriate for the state, was removed and a tower was added at the north end of the building. The building is now known as the Bataan Memorial Building, to commemorate the Bataan Death March. It houses numerous offices of the State Government. The old capitol is almost entirely obscured by the later additions, or in the case of the pedimented portico, removals, but its third-story arched windows are still recognizable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855254", "title": "Charles E. Bennett (politician)", "text": "Charles E. Bennett (politician)\n\nCharles Edward Bennett (December 2, 1910 – September 6, 2003) was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Florida from 1949 to 1993. He was a Democrat who resided in Jacksonville, Florida. He is the longest-serving member of either house of Congress in Florida's history.\n\nHe was born in Canton, New York and moved to Florida by the end of his childhood. He graduated from high school in Tampa. Bennett was an Eagle Scout and received the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award from the Boy Scouts of America.\n\nIn the history of the University of Florida, he is the only person to have served both as editor of the student newspaper (The Independent Florida Alligator), and president of the student body. As editor of the Alligator, he wrote editorial in favor of isolation and against the nation becoming involved in foreign wars.\n\nBennett earned his bachelor's degree in 1932, then enrolled in the Law School. After graduating with a Juris Doctorate in 1934, he practiced law in Jacksonville and was elected to the Florida state legislature in 1941.\n\nHe resigned in March 1942 to join the United States Army and served with distinction in New Guinea as a guerrilla fighter during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines. While overseas, he contracted polio which left his legs paralyzed for the remainder of his life. He went through 16 months of rehabilitation at a military hospital in Arkansas, then utilized leg braces, canes or crutches to walk. He received the Philippine Legion of Honor and the Gold Cross. In the U.S., he was awarded the Bronze and Silver Stars and was discharged as a Captain in 1947.\n\nHe married wife Dorothy Jean in 1953 and they had four children: Lucinda (Cindy), Charles Junior (who died in 1977 from a drug overdose), James and Bruce.\n\nAfter the war, he was elected to Congress from what was then the 2nd District. He was re-elected 21 more times from this Jacksonville-based district, which was renumbered as the 3rd District in 1967. He rarely faced serious opposition, even as Jacksonville fell under increasing Republican influence. For instance, in 1972 he won 82 percent of the vote against a nominal Republican challenger (one of only six times the Republicans even put up a challenger against him) even as Richard Nixon carried the district by over 70 percent of the vote.\n\nIn 1951, he began proposing a code of ethics for government employees, nicknamed \"The Ten Commandments\". After the Sherman Adams affair, the document was adopted as the first Code of ethics for Government Service in 1958. In 1955, he sponsored the bill that added the words In God We Trust to both the nation's coins and currency. He signed the 1956 Southern Manifesto, and voted against the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, 1964, and 1968, but voted in favor of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.\n\nTo prove to his constituents that his handicap did not interfere with his serving in Congress, he amassed the record for the longest unbroken string of recorded roll call votes without being absent when the roll was called. Each year, he returned his veteran's disability pension and Social Security checks to the U. S. Treasury to reduce the national debt. Leftover campaign funds were given to the National Park Service. According to \"The Almanac of American Politics 1980\", \"He opposes unofficial office accounts, outside income for members and congressional pay raises, which led one colleague to call him 'a bit too pious.' \"\n\nHowever, his staunch ethical stance appeared to be too much for his colleagues in the House of Representatives, who nicknamed him, \"Mr. Clean\". Although he was responsible for the establishment of the first temporary committee on ethics in the House, he was not named to the first formal ethics committee when it was formed.\n\nNot surprisingly given the large defense presence in the Jacksonville area, Bennett was somewhat hawkish on defense policy. He was in line to become chairman of the House Armed Services Committee in 1985, one of the most powerful panels in the body; he had served on that committee for virtually all of his House career. However, he was defeated for the post by Les Aspin. While Aspin had far less seniority than Bennett, his views on defense policy were more in line with the rest of the Democratic Caucus.\n\nBennett was set to run for a 23rd term in 1992 in the newly renumbered 4th District against Jacksonville City Council president Tillie Fowler, his strongest Republican opponent in decades. However, he abruptly ended his bid for reelection when his wife became ill in the spring of 1992. Fowler went on to win in November. At the time of his retirement, he was the second longest-serving member of the House (behind only fellow Democrat Jamie Whitten). He is still the longest-serving member of either house of Congress in Florida's history. Proving just how Republican this district had become, the Democrats have only fielded a candidate in the district five times since Bennett's retirement, and none of them have cleared the 35 percent mark.\n\nFlorida's 3rd congressional district, 1980:\n\nFlorida's 3rd congressional district, 1982:\n\nFlorida's 3rd congressional district, 1990:\n\nCharles Bennett was a historical scholar who researched and wrote nine books about the history of north Florida, including \"General MacGregor: Hero or Rogue\", \"Laudonniere & Fort Caroline\", \"Three Voyages\" and \"Twelve on the River St. Johns\". \nThe Fort Caroline National Memorial and the Timucuan Ecological and Historic Preserve were both created through his efforts.\nHe is the only person to receive the Jacksonville Historical Society's \"Lifetime Achievement Award\", and the society stated, \"His contributions of original research and his additions to the body of knowledge on the area's history are staggering.\"\nThe \"Charles E. and Dorothy J. Bennett Fund\" was established in 2008 at the University of Florida to encourage research and publication of Florida history.\n\nBennett suffered a heart attack and a stroke in 2002, after which he used a wheelchair. His health steadily declined, and he died in Jacksonville in 2003 at age 92. His ashes were interred at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nThe Charles E. Bennett Federal Building at 400 West Bay Street in Jacksonville is named after him as is the Charles E. Bennett Elementary School in Green Cove Springs, Florida. The bridge over the Intracoastal Waterway on Jacksonville's Wonderwood Connector was dedicated on August 27, 2004 as the \"Charles E. Bennett Memorial Bridge\".\n\nA life-size cast bronze statue of Bennett was installed on a granite base in a shady corner of Hemming Plaza in Jacksonville on April 23, 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855256", "title": "Yak-Service", "text": "Yak-Service\n\nYak-Service () was an airline based in Moscow, Russia. It operated executive passenger charters. It was established on 12 February 1993 and started operations on 25 November 1993. The airline was banned from operating within the EU from 24 July 2009 to November 2009, and had further restrictions imposed upon it in 2010.\n\nOn 21 September 2011, the airline had its licence revoked by Rosaviatsiya in the wake of the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl plane crash in Yaroslavl, Russia.\n\n\nThe Yak-Service fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n\n\nOn 7 September 2011 at 16:05 MSK, \"RA-42434\" Yak-42D, chartered to carry the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl KHL hockey team, crashed at the Volga River bank 2 kilometres from Tunoshna Airport, Yaroslavl, Russia, and was destroyed, killing the entire team and 3 crew members, one crew member aboard survived. Among the deceased in this crash were former National Hockey League (NHL) players Pavol Demitra, Ruslan Salei, and Kārlis Skrastiņš.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855257", "title": "Do Make Say Think (album)", "text": "Do Make Say Think (album)\n\nDo Make Say Think is the self-titled debut album of Do Make Say Think. It was released in March 1999 by Constellation Records.\n\nThe album was originally self-released and distributed in late 1997 by the band members. However, it was later delivered to Constellation Records, where it was formally released by the record label. This marked the first time that Constellation had released material by a band outside of Quebec.\n\nThe recording took place in the CIUT-FM radio studios of the University of Toronto and at the Harris Institute for the Arts.\n\nThe packaging includes a window in the front through which one of three provided pieces of card can be displayed, each bearing a design on both sides.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855260", "title": "SITRA", "text": "SITRA\n\nSitra (), the Finnish Innovation Fund, is an independent public foundation which operates directly under the supervision of the Finnish Parliament. Its endowment was valued at 771 million euros in 2017. Its duties are stated in legislation: the objective of the foundation is \"to promote stable and balanced development in Finland, qualitative and quantitative economic growth and international competitiveness and cooperation\", by means of supporting \"projects that increase the efficiency of the economy, improve the level of education or research, or study future development scenarios\". Sitra functions both as a think tank and as an investment company. Sitra was founded in 1967 as a part of the Bank of Finland, on the country's 50th anniversary. However, most of the value of its current endowment comes from a donation of Nokia stock from the Finnish Parliament in 1992.\n\nSitra's operational independence has been further strengthened by its funding model. It is not answerable to the government in power and does not depend on the state budget; instead, its operations are funded with the profits of its endowment and the profits of its operations. According to law, the funds must be invested securely and in a profitable manner. The return from Sitra's endowment averages at approximately 30 million euros a year. Sitra does not spend the core endowment or receive any tax-generated government funding. While Sitra can be compared to Business Finland, their roles are different: Sitra invests in companies and startups to create new profitable business, while Business Finland is a part of the government through a ministry and funds research in companies or universities without an explicit profit motive.\n\nIn practice, Sitra's work consists of research, studies, trials, pilots, events, and training that are all closely related to Sitra's three strategic themes. These strategic themes present the most central challenges for the future sustainable well-being in Finland.\n\nThe goal of the theme is to build sustainable everyday life based on a circular economy, where well-being is not built upon the overconsumption of fossil fuels. Recently, Sitra has for example published the world's first national road map for a circular economy and launched trials of the road map. In addition, Sitra was the main organizer of the world's first World Circular Economy Forum in 2017. The event gathered the world's top business leaders, policymakers, researchers, and innovators to present the world's best circular economy solutions on 5-7 of June in Helsinki.\n\nThe on-going projects within the Circular Economy theme are Sustainable everyday life, A circular economy and Climate solutions.\n\nThe theme aims to strengthen the ability and will of Finnish society to renew itself. In recent years, Sitra has introduced the groundbreaking data exchange layer concept, the youth work approach and information system Tajua Mut! (Get me!) and the Palvelutori concept for senior citizen services. Sitra has also promoted the drafting of the national genome strategy and created the virtual clinic concept, which is unique even by international standards.\n\nThe on-going projects within the Capacity for Renewal theme are Fair data economy, Well-being data, Human-driven Health and Public-sector leadership.\n\nThe theme promotes efforts to find new solutions for work and the economy, experiments with those solutions and helps guide their practical implementation. Among other things, Sitra has build an ecosystem for impact investing and launched the first social impact bonds in Finland.\n\nThe on-going projects with the Working Life and a Sustainable Economy theme are Lifelong learning and Impact investing.\n\nThe on-going projects within the Foresight and Insight theme are Megatrends, Weak signals, The Next Era, Timeout, Knowledge in decision-making and Education for a Changing World.\n\nThe on-going projects within Training are Leadership training for sustainable economic policy and Sitra Lab.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855272", "title": "Green Tea (film)", "text": "Green Tea (film)\n\nGreen Tea () is a 2002 Chinese film. It was adapted from the novel \"Adiliya by the River\" by Jin Renshun. Shot in the summer of 2002, \"Green Tea\" was one of three films directed by Zhang Yuan that year (including the earlier \"I Love You\" and the subsequent \"Jiang Jie\"). The film was photographed by established Hong Kong-cinematographer Christopher Doyle, whose work gives \"Green Tea\" a more polished look than many of Zhang's earlier independent features.\n\nA conservative Beijing graduate student name Wu Fang (Zhao Wei) goes on a series of blind dates. Sensitive to slights and the advances of the men, she often becomes offended and leaves halfway through the dates, though sometimes it is the men who leave first, annoyed by her behavior. On one date she meets Chen Minglian (Jiang Wen), whose fiancee had recently left him after having an affair with another man. Their initial date is an unmitigated disaster. Mingliang discusses her fortune-telling friend who Mingliang scoffs at, and Wu Fang walks out when Mingliang asks her how many previous boyfriends she has had. When he chases after her suggesting that they get a room in the local hotel, she slaps him and takes a taxi to get away from him. However, Mingliang pursues Fang who, while initially resistant, agrees to go on additional dates with Mingliang.\n\nDuring these dates, Fang begins to relate the tale of her friend's parents. The mother was a cosmetic artist for the dead in a funeral home, a fact that she had kept secret from her husband. When the father finally discovered the truth, he went nearly mad and descended into alcoholism. According to Fang, the father would drink to excess and beat both his wife and his daughter, often claiming that the wife's hands (and her profession) had destroyed his life. Over the course of several of their dates, Fang tells Mingliang that the mother eventually killed the father accidentally while resisting one of his attacks and was imprisoned for ten years. At times Fang suggests that she has made the story up, though Mingliang seems to remain entranced by the tale.\n\nAt the same time, Mingliang's artist friend Jun has been trying to set him up with a sultry lounge singer in a club. The singer, named Lang Lang (also Zhao Wei) bears a striking resemblance to Wu Fang but dresses far more provocatively and has no trouble with men. Mingliang tries to get Lang Lang to admit she is Fang, but eventually settles into the idea that she is a different woman. The two share several conversations where they discuss life and love, though Mingliang remains enraptured by the graduate student rather than the lounge singer. Finally Wu Fang agrees to become Mingliang's girlfriend. But when Jun has a dinner party planned, Wu Fang is nowhere to be found. Mingliang asks Lang Lang to pose as his girlfriend for just the night. During dinner, Lang Lang reads the fortune of Jun's girlfriend, revealing her to be shallow and manipulative. When the girlfriend gets too drunk, Jun slaps her. Lang Lang walks up to Jun and slaps him in return, telling him she hates men who strike women (something she shares with Wu Fang).\n\nThe film ends ambiguously. Laughing, Mingliang takes Lang Lang and they get a hotel room. At the same time, a conversation where Mingliang explains why he likes Fang is replayed on the soundtrack.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855274", "title": "Sarah Hagan", "text": "Sarah Hagan\n\nSarah Margaret Hagan (born May 24, 1984) is an American television and film actress.\n\nHagan was born in Austin, Texas. She has been acting since the age of six, when her mother first signed her up for musical theater. Hagan was first involved with theater companies such as Houston's Playhouse 1960, the Houston Grand Opera (where she sang in the children's chorus), the Crighton Playhouse, the Houston Music Hall and the Bitter Truth Theater. From there, she made her screen debut in the 1997 feature film \"Faith\", where she played the title character at age 13; her TV debut came on an episode of the Calista Flockhart series \"Ally McBeal\" in 1999.\n\nHagan's first major break came when she was cast in a recurring role as Millie Kentner on the short-lived NBC cult TV series \"Freaks and Geeks\" (1999–2000). Following that show's cancellation, she was cast on the David Alan Grier NBC sitcom \"DAG\", where she was originally slated to play Camilla Whitman, daughter of the US President; however, the role of Camilla was recast when the pilot episode was revamped before airing. \n\nFollowing the lead of several fellow \"Freaks and Geeks\" cast members, Hagan then appeared in an episode of the short-lived Fox sitcom \"Undeclared\" in 2001. Her next roles were a bit part in the Jack Black movie \"Orange County\" and a guest role as Melissa in \"Boston Public\" in 2002. After that, she was cast as Amanda in the seventh and final season of the hit cult series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\".\n\nIn recent TV roles, Hagan appeared on the ABC medical drama \"Grey's Anatomy\" as Devo, a teenage girl whose religious beliefs conflict with getting treatment for a heart condition she was diagnosed with; she appeared on the NBC drama \"Medium\", playing a character named Suzannah, a friend of Allison's (Patricia Arquette) who appeared in two dreams flashing back to Allison's teen years; and she played the role of Patricia on an episode of the CBS legal drama \"Close to Home\". She made her first venture into animation in 2007 when she played the voices of Lola Llama and Jungle Girl on two episodes of the Cartoon Network series \"My Gym Partner's a Monkey\".\n\nHagan next appeared in the direct-to-DVD Warner Bros. comedy feature \"Spring Breakdown\" (which was released on June 2, 2009), alongside Parker Posey and \"Saturday Night Live\" cast members Amy Poehler and Rachel Dratch; she plays Truvy, the friend of a college co-ed (Amber Tamblyn) who is also the daughter of a powerful senator. She appeared in the role of Sandy in the \"NCIS\" episode \"Seek\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1855276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855276", "title": "List of islands of Brazil", "text": "List of islands of Brazil\n\nThe following is a list of the islands of Brazil.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855286", "title": "Christopher Cool", "text": "Christopher Cool\n\nChristopher Cool: TEEN Agent was a series of children's novels produced between 1967 and 1969 by the Stratemeyer Syndicate and published by Grosset & Dunlap. While the author is given as Jack Lancer, this is actually a pseudonym for a ghostwriter working for the Syndicate. In a 1989 interview published in \"Comics Interview\" #69, Jim Lawrence disclosed that he was the author of the series. Lawrence went on to write the long running newspaper strip adventures of James Bond.\n\nThe series was created to capitalize on the marketing potential of the spy genre of the era. Six novels were published. The series pitted Christopher and other agents of TEEN (Top-Secret Educational Espionage Network) against TOAD, an international criminal conspiracy.\n\nOther members of TEEN include Geronimo Johnson, an Apache Indian and Christopher's partner; Spice Carter, a student at Vassar College; Yummi Toyama, a Japanese-American student who attends \"Berkeley\" (it is never made clear whether this is intended to be Berkeley College (Yale University), Berkeley College, UC Berkeley, or even the Berklee College of Music; but, most likely the home of the Golden Bears), and Beauregard Tatum, an African-American student at Harvard.\n\nThe novels show the TEEN agents going to various foreign countries. As was typical of the spy genre of the time, they are outfitted with many spy gadgets.\n\n\nAll six novels were published in France by Hachette between 1969 and 1973 under the title \"Chris Cool\". They were also translated into Swedish, where Christopher was renamed \"Ronnie Clark\".\n"}
{"id": "1855287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855287", "title": "Showdown (Flynn novel)", "text": "Showdown (Flynn novel)\n\n₯\nShowdown is a romantic adventure novel written by famous Tasmanian-born actor Errol Flynn (1909–1959). It was first published in 1946 by Invincible Press (Australia) and subsequently in the UK in 1952 and in paperback in 1961. Flynn draws on his experiences working in and around New Guinea when young to provide the background. Accounts of his sailing in New Guinea waters appear in his autobiographies, \"Beam Ends\" (1937) and \"My Wicked, Wicked Ways\" (1959).\n\nThe novel is dedicated to German-American artist John Decker, who painted Flynn's portrait, translated in the same year to Spanish as \"Un drama en los Mares del Sur\" (Renacimiento, 1946).\n\nThe novel was originally called \"One Man in His Time\" and then \"Charlie Bow Tie Proceeds\".\n\nWhile writing it he was also reported to be working on another book, a novel about the nephew of Montezuma fighting the Conquistadores, called \"Cuautenos\".\n"}
{"id": "1855288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855288", "title": "Vostok Aviation Company", "text": "Vostok Aviation Company\n\nJSC \"Vostok Aviation Company\" (), sometimes trading as Vostok Airlines, is a Russian regional airline headquartered in Khabarovsk and a subsidiary of UTair Aviation. It operates domestic scheduled and charter passenger services, freight services, air ambulance, air patrol, firefighting, oil rig support as well as other specialized operations. Its main base is Khabarovsk Novy Airport.\n\nVostok Aviation Company was established and started operations as 264 Squadron of the Far Eastern division of Aeroflot on 15 May 1945. It was incorporated as a joint stock company on 30 June 1993. The airline is owned by Khabarovsk regional administration (51%) and the airline employees (49%).\n\nAs of December 2015, Vostok Aviation Company serves the following scheduled passenger destinations:\n\nAs of December 2015, the Vostok Aviation Company fleet includes the following aircraft:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855289", "title": "International Agency for Research on Cancer", "text": "International Agency for Research on Cancer\n\nThe International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC; ) is an intergovernmental agency forming part of the World Health Organization of the United Nations.\nIts role is to conduct and coordinate research into the causes of cancer. It also collects and publishes surveillance data regarding the occurrence of cancer worldwide.\n\nIts Monographs Programme identifies carcinogenic hazards and evaluates environmental causes of cancer in humans.\n\nIARC has its own Governing Council, and in 1965 the first members were the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America. Today, IARC's membership has grown to 26 countries. \n\nIn late February 1963, after he spectated his spouse suffering and dying of cancer, journalist and peace activist Yves Poggioli sent a letter to Emmanuel d'Astier de la Vignerie relating his story, and urging support for the creation of an international center to fight against cancer, whose funding where to be directly debited from the national budgets allocated to nuclear weaponry. Touched by the letter, d'Astier assembled a group of French prominent figures, among which Pierre Auger, Francis Perrin, Jean Hyppolite, François Perroux, Pierre Massé, Louis Armand, , Jean Rostand, François Mauriac, , Ambroise-Marie Carré and Le Corbusier, to reach for French president Charles de Gaulle in national newspaper \"Le Monde\" on the 8 November 1963. de Gaulle answered positively to the call and reached for the World Health Organization director M. G. Candeau on the 11 November. The project rapidly gained momentum, and IARC was created on 20 May 1965, by a resolution of the World Health Assembly, as the specialized cancer agency of the World Health Organization. The Agency's headquarters building was provided by its host in Lyon, France.\n\nThe first IARC Director was John Higginson (1966–1981), who was followed by Lorenzo Tomatis (1982–1993), Paul Kleihues (1994–2003), Peter Boyle (2004–2008), Christopher Wild (2009–2018) and Elisabete Weiderpass (2019–present).\n\nIn 1970, after IARC received numerous requests for lists of known and suspected human carcinogens, its Advisory Committee recommended that expert groups prepare a compendium on carcinogenic chemicals, which began publishing monographs series with this aim in mind.\n\nIARC identifies carcinogenic hazard based on qualitative assessment of animal and human evidence. The IARC Working Groups classify agents, mixtures and exposures into one of five categories. The categorization is a matter of scientific judgement that reflects the strength of evidence derived from studies in humans, experimental animals and other relevant data. The classification is based only on the strength of evidence for carcinogenicity, not on the relative increase of cancer risk due to exposure, or on the amount of agent exposure necessary to cause cancer.\n\n\nThere is \"sufficient\" evidence of carcinogenicity in humans. Exceptionally, an agent (or mixture) may be placed in this category if there is \"less than sufficient\" evidence in humans, but \"sufficient\" evidence in experimental animals and \"strong\" evidence in exposed humans that the agent acts through a relevant mechanism of carcinogenicity.\n\n\nThere is \"limited\" evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and \"sufficient\" evidence in experimental animals. Occasionally, an agent (or mixture) may be classified here when there is \"inadequate\" evidence in humans but \"sufficient\" evidence in experimental animals \"and\" \"strong\" evidence that the carcinogenesis is mediated by a mechanism that also operates in humans. Exceptionally, an agent (or mixture) may solely be classified under this category if there is \"limited\" evidence of carcinogenicity in humans, but if it clearly belongs to this category based on mechanistic considerations.\n\n\nThere is \"limited\" evidence of carcinogenicity in humans and \"less than sufficient\" evidence in experimental animals. It may also be used if there is \"inadequate\" evidence in humans but \"sufficient\" evidence in experimental animals. Occasionally, an agent (or mixture) may be placed in group 2B if there is \"inadequate\" evidence in humans and \"less than sufficient\" evidence in experimental animals \"but\" there \"is\" \"supporting\" evidence of carcinogenicity from mechanistic and other relevant data. An agent or a mixture may also be classified in this category solely on the basis of \"strong\" evidence of carcinogenicity from mechanistic and other relevant data.\n\n\nThe evidence is \"inadequate\" in humans and \"inadequate\" or \"limited\" in experimental animals. Exceptionally, agents (or mixtures) where evidence is \"inadequate\" in humans but \"sufficient\" in experimental animals may be placed in this category only if there is \"strong\" evidence that the mechanism of carcinogenicity in experimental animals does not operate in humans.\n\nSubstances that do not fall into any other group are placed in this category. This is not a determination of non-carcinogenicity or overall safety. It means that further research is needed, especially when exposures are widespread or the cancer data are consistent with differing interpretations.\n\nAs of August 2019, roughly 50% of all substances analyzed by IARC fall into this category.\n\n\nThere is evidence \"suggesting\" \"lack of\" carcinogenicity in humans and in experimental animals. In some instances, agents or mixtures for which there is \"inadequate\" evidence in humans but evidence \"suggesting\" lack of carcinogenicity in experimental animals, consistently and strongly supported by a broad range of mechanistic and other relevant data may be classified group 4. Until recently, only Caprolactam fell under this category, but it was recently upgraded.\n\nLorenzo Tomatis, IARC director from 1982 to 1993, was allegedly \"barred from entering the building\" in 2003 after \"accusing the IARC of softpedaling the risks of industrial chemicals\" in a 2002 article. In 2003 thirty public-health scientists signed a letter targeting conflicts of interest and the lack of transparency. Tomatis accused the IARC of \"highly irregular\" voting procedures, alleging industrial interferences, and called for the agency to publish voting procedures and names in details for independent scrutiny.\n\nThe IARC rejected these criticisms, highlighting that only 17 of 410 of the working-group participants were consultants to industry and these people never served as chairs, nor were allowed to vote. The reason the details of the voting names were not published was to avoid political pressures on the participating Working Group scientists, and to protect the integrity of the deliberative process.\n\nOn 20 March 2015, IARC classified glyphosate, the most widely used weed killing substance in the world sold under the brand name of \"Roundup\" by Monsanto, as \"probably carcinogenic to humans\" (Group 2A).\n\nSubsequently, many national regulatory authorities underwent a reevaluation of the risk posed by the exposure to glyphosate. Regulators in Europe (ECHA, EFSA), Canada, Japan and New Zealand reported that the glyphosate was unlikely to pose any carcinogenic risk to humans. California put glyphosate on its list of unsafe chemicals.\n\nSince the publishing, IARC claimed it has suffered unprecedented large-scale attacks on its reputation from the agro-chemical industry.\n\nThe American Chemistry Council (ACC), the trade group for U.S. chemical companies, declared that IARC evaluates how hazardous a substance is based on whether the substance could \"cause cancer in humans under any circumstances, including at exposure levels beyond what is typical.\"\n\nIn early 2016, members of the scientific panel that reviewed glyphosate in 2015 were issued legal requests in the U.S. related to their work. In April 2016, internal IARC officials told its experts to not release documents or comply with the legal requests related to its review of glyphosate.\n\nIn the fall of 2016, the U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a briefing to ask officials from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) about NIH's grant funding to the IARC. The NIH grant database showed that it has given the IARC over $1.2 million in 2016. Jason Chaffetz (Republican) asked the NIH to give his committee details of its standards for awarding grants and vetting grant nominees. Additionally, Congressman Robert Aderholt (Republican), chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, wrote a letter in June 2016 to the head of the NIH questioning the funding of IARC. Republican congressman Jason Chaffetz argued that the IARC is too prone to conclude that substances are carcinogenic. However, IARC respond that the Working Groups methods are \"widely respected for their scientific rigor, standardized and transparent process and for freedom from conflicts of interest.\" Director of IARC Chris Wild further added that the IARC only chooses substances to evaluate from which there already exists a body of scientific literature that says there is a carcinogenic risk to humans. Wild said that because IARC does not select substances at random, it has a low rate of determining a substance as not being cancer-causing.\n\nOn 26 October 2015, a Working Group of 22 experts from 10 countries evaluated the carcinogenicity of the consumption of red meat and processed meat and classified the consumption of red meat as \"probably carcinogenic to humans (Group 2A)\", mainly related to colorectal cancer, and to pancreatic and prostate cancer. It also evaluated processed meat to be \"carcinogenic to humans (Group 1)\", due to \"sufficient evidence in humans that the consumption of processed meat causes colorectal cancer\".\n\nMarcel Kuntz, a French director of research at the French National Centre for Scientific Research, criticized the classification because it didn't assess the risks associated with exposure (probability of getting a cancer from certain exposure). Ed Yong, a British science journalist, criticized the agency and its \"confusing\" category system for misleading the public. IARC answered in a press release their mission was not to evaluate potency or to assess the risks but only to determine scientifically the strength of carcinogenetic evidence of glyphosate.\n\nSome of the items that the IARC classifies, such as mobile phones (Group 2B) and processed meat (Group 1) have caused controversy.\n\nIn 2019 IARC was accused of cooperation with \"toxic tort law firms\" who make profit of suing companies for compensation for alleged health issues based on IARC classification. IARC was accused from hiding conflicts of interest impacting a few invited experts, especially those related to large-scale cash flows from US law firms.\n\nThe five founding states were the US, France, Italy, West Germany and the UK.\n\nThey were later joined by 21 other members, of which 2 left :\n\n"}
{"id": "1855295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855295", "title": "David Moorcroft", "text": "David Moorcroft\n\nDavid Robert Moorcroft (born 10 April 1953) is a former middle-distance and long-distance runner from England, and former world record holder for 5,000 metres. His athletic career spanned the late-1970s and 1980s. He subsequently served as the Chief Executive of UK Athletics from 1997 to 2007. He received an MBE in 1983 and an OBE in 1998 for services to British sport.\n\nMoorcroft was born to Robert and Mildred (née Hardy) Moorcroft on 10 April 1953 in Coventry, West Midlands and he has an elder sister Valerie. He was a pupil at Woodlands Comprehensive School and Tile Hill College. He studied Physical Education and Sport Science at Loughborough University. He has been a member of the Coventry Godiva Harriers athletics club since 1964 and is currently the club's President.\n\nMoorcroft made his senior debut for Great Britain in 1973 and competed in his first Olympic Games in Montreal 1976, placing seventh in the 1,500-metre final. He won gold in the 1978 Commonwealth Games in Edmonton at 1500 metres. Just four weeks later, he won the bronze medal at the same distance in the European Athletics Championships in Prague. In the 1980 Moscow Olympics, he suffered from stomach problems and was eliminated in the 5,000-metres semifinals.\n\nMoorcroft had a remarkable season in 1982, where he broke the 5,000 m World Record by 5.79 seconds (without the use of pace-making). His time of 13:00.41 set at the Bislett Games in Oslo stood for three years until broken by Saïd Aouita (though it remained a British record until 2010). He remains the last non-African to set a 5,000 m world record. In the 1982 running season, he set a personal record in most distances, but probably ran too many races or for some other reason lost his peak shape before the European Athletics Championships in Athens. There he took the bronze medal at 5,000 metres, losing to West Germany's Thomas Wessinghage and East Germany's Werner Schildhauer.\n\nThe same year, he won gold in the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane over 5,000 m, he broke the European and British 3,000 m record with a time of 7:32.79 and he demonstrated his lower end range by recording 1:46.64 for 800 m and 3:49.34 for the mile. His 3,000 m time remained a British record until it was broken by Mo Farah on 5 June 2016.\n\nHe competed in his third and final Olympic Games in Los Angeles in 1984, however, suffering from a groin injury, he placed only 14th in the 5,000 metres. He continued to compete for Britain internationally until the late 1980s.\n\nFollowing his retirement from top-level competition, he continued running and his time of 4:02.53 over 1 mile in Belfast in 1993 was at the time a world masters record for 40+ age group.\n\nMoorcroft covered athletics events for BBC television and radio between 1983 and 1997.\n\nAt the same time, he was developing the Coventry Sports Foundation for which he was Chief Executive from 1981 to 1995 (and remains a Trustee). The Foundation now operates three major sports facilities and numerous related projects serving targeted communities in Coventry. \n\nFor the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics, Moorcroft provided track and field analysis for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. He commentated for Channel 4 at the 2011 World Athletics Championships. During the 2012 London Olympics he again served as a track and field analyst for Canadian television, this time for the CTV-led Olympic Broadcast Media Consortium. In 2016, he performed the same role for CBC/Radio-Canada's coverage of the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games.\n\nHe was appointed as Chief Executive of the British Athletic Federation in 1997 at a time when the finances of athletics in the UK were perilous. Indeed, two weeks later the federation was placed into administration, leading to the creation of a successor body: UK Athletics. He remained Chief Executive until January 2007 – having announced his decision to resign in August 2006.\n\nUnder his leadership, the federation rebuilt financially through a combination of sponsorship, broadcasting and public funds. On his departure UK Athletics' turnover was over £18 million per annum. One of his final acts as Chief Executive was helping to secure a £50 million investment from Norwich Union into athletics at all levels up to 2012.\n\nA new television deal was agreed which brought athletics back to the BBC and a series of televised events staged across the UK each year. The IAAF World Indoor Championships in Birmingham and the EAA European Cross Country Championships in Edinburgh were held in 2003, and the rights were secured to stage the 2007 EAA European Indoor Championships in Birmingham, the 2008 IAAF World Cross Country Championships in Edinburgh and the 2007 EAA European Cup of Race Walking in Leamington Spa.\n\nA network of new indoor training facilities were developed across the UK and a major refurbishment investment of English tracks took place, funded by the £41 million 'Legacy Fund' granted to athletics by the Government following the cancellation of the 2005 World Championships in London.\n\nOn the track, the British team had mixed fortunes. At the Olympic Games in 2000 and 2004, five gold medals were won – comparing favourably with a total of two golds in the previous three Games. However, the results in World and European Championships declined. On leaving UK Athletics, he pointed to positive signs with a new generation of athletes who were building towards London 2012.\n\nMoorcroft formed pointfourone sports consultancy with Rob Borthwick (also formerly of UK Athletics). The partnership was formed in summer 2007 and is named after his 5,000 m world record run of 13:00.41.\n\nIn 2012, Moorcroft became Director of Sport for Join In, a UK national multi-sport event to support local sports clubs and organisations in the UK to attract more volunteers. \n\nMoorcroft married Linda on 5 July 1975. They have two children, Paul and Lucy, and four grandchildren.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1855296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855296", "title": "Electric Frankenstein", "text": "Electric Frankenstein\n\nElectric Frankenstein is an American band from Whippany, Clifton, and other areas of New Jersey, founded by Sal Canzonieri. Their music is generally considered punk rock, but includes elements of hard rock and heavy metal as well. Because of this, they have sometimes been referred to as AC/DC meets The Dead Boys - high energy punk rock and roll that combines the raw and energetic sounds of Punk Rock and Garage Punk (Dead Boys, Ramones, Damned, Misfits, Sabbath etc.) with elements of hard rock played by bands like MC5, Stooges, AC/DC, Kiss, Mott the Hoople, Alice Cooper, and so on.\n\nReleasing over 100 records all over the world since 1992, Electric Frankenstein's vinyl singles and albums, CDs, and posters proved to be highly influential, helping to spark a rock revival among the youth of the time throughout the world from the USA to Europe to Scandinavia to Japan, known as the New Rock Revolution. Many new bands soon played the Punk Rock & Roll style that began with Electric Frankenstein's combining of Punk Rock, Hard Rock, and Heavy Metal, greatly influencing such bands as The Hellacopters, Gluecifer, Turbonegro, and many more.\n\nThis revival was further aided by guitarist and founder Sal Canzonieri's strong use of the internet early on to promote the band's music. Electric Frankenstein is considered the first band to have had a website, albeit a one pager back in 1991. Also, he strongly promoted all bands of the new Punk Rock & Roll genre in the newly emerging MP3 digital format, on the highly popular music site MP3.com, helping to develop a strong community of bands from many states in the USA and from many countries. Canzonieri later created the critically acclaimed series of compilations called \"A Fistful of Rock & Roll\", which collected and highlighted all of the best of the new rock bands, collectively known as the New Rock Revolution. There have been 13 volumes of the series so far, published on various record labels (Tee Pee Records, Victory Records, and Steel Cage Records). A second series is forthcoming, known as \"A Fistful More of Rock & Roll\".\n\nElectric Frankenstein also has an art book containing their record covers and concert posters, designed by notable underground artists such as Coop, Kozik, Johnny Ace, Art Chantry, Dirty Donny, Peter Bagge, and many more. The book was titled, \"Electric Frankenstein - High Energy Punk Rock & Roll Poster Art\" and was published by Dark Horse Comics (2004). The book chronicled every single poster and record cover of their first 10 years. \nThe book \"Electric Frankenstein!\" is featured in the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame archives. A second book documenting their second decade of artwork has been published \"Son of Electric Frankenstein - More High Energy Rock Art\" (published by Create Space).\n\nThe band was first formed in 1989 out of the ashes of famed NYC space punk band The Thing, and continued to develop their sounds between 1990 and 1991, by brothers Sal and Dan Canzonieri (a.k.a., Danny Frankenstein). With Sal on guitar and Dan on bass, their first line-up was with Frankie Orlandoni on vocals, Jim Foster on lead guitar and John Caton on drums. Within one year, Steve Miller took over as singer/vocalist and eventually also played lead guitar. Miller took time off while recording a side project, and Scott Wilkins of Verbal Abuse & Condemned to Death took over vocals for two years, after which Steve Miller returned on vocals and lead guitar. John Steele and Rob Sefcik took over alternately playing drums during the last 15 years. They developed a strong following in New York City and by 1995, they toured nationally and internationally. After releasing singles on a handful of independent labels, they released their first vinyl EP, \"The Time Is Now,\" in 1995 that was released on CD with tracks from 7\" singles as their first full-length album. Since then, they have released over 10 albums with almost every album being released on a different label.\n\nThe band's music and/or graphic art has been featured in video games, such as \"Tony Hawk's Underground,\" TV shows such as \"Viva La Bam,\" \"The X-Files,\" \"Nitro Circus,\" \"Fantasy Factory,\" \"Dawson's Creek,\" and movies such as \"Signs,\" \"Jackass,\" and \"American Psycho 2, among others.\"\n\nThe members of Electric Frankenstein were all previously in well known bands. Original lead guitarist Jim Foster was an original guitarist for Adrenalin OD. Vocalist/Guitarist Steve Miller was guitarist/vocalist in the Gutter Kids and the Crash Street Kids (who were signed to Atlantic Records, but dropped before the album came out). Bassist Dan Canzonieri was in Melvis Kepper, Empire Hideous (with Mike Hideous, short time singer for The Misfits). Dan also played with The Shadow Project and Christian Death, both bands featuring original vocalist Rozz Williams.\n\nFounding member of Electric Frankenstein, Rhythm Guitarist Sal Canzonieri, was in Noise Rock/Post Punk Acid Rock band The Thing, from the mid 1980s into the early 1990s. The Thing were one of the first original founders of the early east coast stoner rock scene, along with Monster Magnet, Bench, Hed, The Blood Farmers, and others. The Thing played live shows in NYC at CBGBs and the Continental with White Zombie, Angel Rot, The Blood Farmers, The Unsane, Von Lmo, Royal Trux, Honeymoon Killers, Railroad Jerk, Nice Strong Arm, Cop Shoot Cop, Core, Daisycutter, Bench, and many others. The Thing were known for the totally original sounding music and intense wild live shows in NYC and UK with strobe lights, smoke, nude vampire go-go girls, split-screen films, fireworks, buckets of pigs blood, live worms, horror film sound samples, and more. Their shows later inspired White Zombie, fellow friends, to go into this visual direction for their live shows. The band grew popular in NYC and Europe and toured the UK in 1991, where they recorded a John Peel Session for the BBC, produced by Dale Griffin (drummer from Mott the Hoople), which was released on vinyl by Dutch East India Records - Peel Sessions series. John Peel said this was one of his favorite sessions and one of the very few that he has attended. One of only two or three bands that have had their full Peel Session played more than twice on his radio show.\n\nThe Thing is mentioned in the Hawkwind bio book \"Space Daze\" and also in the book about the John Peel Sessions. When they first formed in the mid 1980s, they were part of the thriving NYC Noise Rock art scene (Live Skull, Unsane, Sonic Youth, White Zombie, Angel Rot, etc.), later morphing into a more progressive acid rock sounding band over the years. The Thing are written about in various rock history books as being one of the first bands from the 1980s to emerge from the Noise Rock scene to develop the a musical style later known as stoner rock. Originally the band called their music \"Psychedelic Punk\" and later \"Acid Core\". The Thing were doing a different type of post-punk music, while most bands at the time were still doing either Cro-mags / Agnostic Front styled hardcore punk or Sonic Youth influenced experimental/weird music. The Thing mixed no wave noise, acid rock, metal, 1970s rock, psychedelic, progressive rock, and gothic rock. In the last decade or so, it has become known as stoner rock. A year or two after they started playing live, fellow NJ artists Monster Magnet (and NY bands: Bench, Blood Farmers, Hed, and others) also began playing a similar style of music, which later influenced Kyuss (leading to Fu Manchu and Queens of the Stone Age). Groups such as White Zombie and Tool also later became popular as they went on to further develop a sound that The Thing had helped develop. Even one of My Bloody Valentine's guitarists cited The Thing's \"texture guitar\" as a major influence, after meeting The Thing guitarist, Sal Canzonieri. Their live shows were attended by many well known bands, such as The Pixies (who wrote a song about hearing their music called \"The Thing\", which they released on the album \"Complete 'B' Sides\"), Lemmy from Motorhead, Milk, Th' Faith Healers, Silverfish, and Von Lmo (The Thing guitarist Sal Canzonieri later played with Von Lmo in an updated version of Red Transistor), and others. The Thing opened for Happy Mondays at CBGB and outdrew them. The show featured many special effects that were later used by bands such as White Zombie.\n\nElectric Frankenstein has been featured in many music books, including the following:\n\nThe band was chosen by the Frankenstein Society to represent the release of the Frankenstein stamp by the United States Postal Service.\n\nElectric Frankenstein's song \"It's All Moving Faster\" was covered by Sweet on their 2012 album, \"New York Connection\". Two different versions of their cover are featured on the 2014 reissue of \"New York Connection\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855298", "title": "Hallie Eisenberg", "text": "Hallie Eisenberg\n\nHallie Kate Eisenberg (born August 2, 1992) is an American former actress, best known for being \"The Pepsi Girl\" in a series of Pepsi commercials, as Marie Alweather in \"Paulie\", and her role as Erika Tansy in \"How to Eat Fried Worms\".\n\nEisenberg was born in East Brunswick Township, New Jersey, the daughter of Amy and Barry Eisenberg, who ran a hospital and later became a college professor. She has two siblings: actor Jesse Eisenberg, the Academy Award-nominated star of \"The Social Network\", and Kerry. Hallie was named after the character Hallie O'Fallon in the film \"All I Want for Christmas\", portrayed by Thora Birch. Eisenberg attended American University, in Washington, DC. She was brought up in a secular Jewish family.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, she was \"The Pepsi Girl\" in a series of Pepsi commercials. She made her film debut in the children's film \"Paulie\", playing the young owner of the title parrot. After appearing in a few made-for-television films, she had supporting parts in 1999's \"The Insider\" and \"Bicentennial Man\".\n\nIn 2000, Eisenberg co-starred with Minnie Driver in the feature film \"Beautiful\", which received generally negative reviews. She also starred as Helen Keller in a television remake of \"The Miracle Worker\".\n\nIn 2004, she played opposite Jeff Daniels and Patricia Heaton in the television remake of \"The Goodbye Girl\". In 2006, Eisenberg appeared in \"How to Eat Fried Worms\", the New Line Cinema adaptation of Thomas Rockwell's book of the same name. In 2007, she co starred in the independent feature film \"P.J.\" alongside John Heard, Vincent Pastore and Robert Picardo.\n\nEisenberg made her Broadway debut in Roundabout Theatre's production of Clare Boothe Luce's play \"The Women\". In 2010, she halted her pursuit of a film career to attend college.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855299", "title": "Hermann Bahr", "text": "Hermann Bahr\n\nHermann Bahr (19 July 1863 – 15 January 1934) was an Austrian writer, playwright, director, and critic.\n\nBorn and raised in Linz, Bahr studied in Vienna, Graz, Czernowitz and Berlin, devoting special attention to philosophy, political economy, philology and law. During a prolonged stay in Paris, he discovered his interest in literature and art. He began working as an art critic, first in Berlin, then in Vienna: In 1890 he became associate editor of \"Berliner Freie Bühne\" (“Berlin Free Stage”), and later became associate editor and critic of the \"Deutsche Zeitung\" (“German Newspaper”). In 1894 he began publication of \"Die Zeit\" (“The Times”), and was also editor of the \"Neue Wiener Tagblatt\" (“New Vienna Daily Flyer”) and the \"Oesterreichische Volkszeitung\" (“Austrian Popular Newspaper”).\n\nFrom 1906–1907, he worked as a director with Max Reinhardt at the German Theater () in Berlin, and starting in 1918 he was a Dramaturg with the Vienna Burgtheater.\n\nSpokesman for the literary group Young Vienna, Bahr was an active member of the Austrian avant-garde, producing both criticism and Impressionist plays. Bahr's association with the coffeehouse literati made him one of the main targets of Karl Kraus's satirical journal \"Die Fackel\" (\"The Torch\") after Kraus's falling out with the group.\n\nBahr was the first critic to apply the label modernism to literary works, and was an early observer of the Expressionism movement. His theoretical papers were important in the definition of new literary categories. His 40 plays and around 10 novels never reached the quality of his theoretical work. He died, aged 70, in Munich.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855304", "title": "RMS Mauretania (1938)", "text": "RMS Mauretania (1938)\n\nRMS \"Mauretania\" was launched on 28 July 1938 at the Cammell Laird yard in Birkenhead, England, and was completed in May 1939. The second \"Mauretania\" was one of the first ships built for the newly formed Cunard White Star company following the merger in April 1934 of the Cunard and White Star Line. On the withdrawal of the first in 1934, to prevent a rival company using the name and to keep it available for the new liner, arrangements were made for the Red Funnel paddle steamer \"Queen\" to be renamed \"Mauretania\" in the interim.\n\nThe new liner had a tonnage of 35,739 gross, an overall length of and a beam of and had a exterior design similar to . The vessel was powered by two sets of Parsons single reduction-geared steam turbines giving and driving twin propellers. Her service speed was with a maximum speed of .\n\nThe second \"Mauretania\" was built by Cammell Laird of Birkenhead and was the largest ship built in England at that time. She was also the second new ship delivered to the combined Cunard White Star Line. \"Mauretania\" was laid down on 24 May 1937 as Yard Number 1029. This new medium sized Cunarder was launched on 28 July 1938 by Lady Bates, wife of the Cunard White Star chairman. She was named \"Mauretania\" to honour the previous record breaking \"Mauretania\" which had been retired in 1935. The ship was designed for the London to New York service and was the largest vessel ever to navigate the River Thames and use the Royal Docks. She was also intended to stand in for one of the Cunard Queens when they were undergoing maintenance.\n\n\"This is a red letter day, not only for me but for Merseyside. The launch of the largest ship that has ever been built in England. I hope that like her namesake she may work her way into the affections of all who have to do with her on both sides of the Atlantic. To the ship and all who serve or sail in her I wish all good fortune. I name you Mauretania.\" \nWords of Lady Bates, the wife of Cunard White Star chairman Sir Percy Bates at the launch ceremony on 28 July 1938.\n\nThe new \"Mauretania\"s smart and stylish accommodation marked a further enhancement to the standards of cabins, public rooms and general facilities provided for passengers of all grades by Cunard White Star Line.\n\n\"Mauretania\" sailed on her maiden voyage from Liverpool to New York on 17 June 1939 under the command of Captain A T Brown (who had delivered the previous \"Mauretania\" to the shipbreakers), after remaining in New York for a week she returned to Southampton via Cherbourg on Friday, 30 June 1939. Like , 25 years before, \"Mauretania\" was to experience only the briefest period of commercial operation before the outbreak of hostilities halted this work for over six years. Returning from the next voyage, \"Mauretania\" called at Southampton, Le Havre and finally London where she berthed in the King George V Dock. From August she was switched to the London- New York service for which she was intended. Here she supplemented \"Britannic\" and \"Georgic\" on the London to New York service.\n\nOn 11 August 1939 she left on her final prewar voyage to New York. On her return she was requisitioned by the government. \"Mauretania\" was armed with two guns and some smaller weapons, painted in battle grey, and then despatched to America at the end of December 1939.\n\nFor three months the ship lay idle in New York, docked alongside , , and the French Line's , until it was decided to use her as a troopship. On 20 March 1940 she sailed from New York to Sydney, via Panama, to be converted for her new role. She endured a tense voyage out to Australia via Bilbao, San Francisco and Honolulu, tracked for much of the way by the enemy and having to evade concentrations of U-boats that were known to be lying in wait for her. This conversion work was carried out in April and in May she left Sydney as part of one of the greatest convoys ever mustered for the transport of troops. With her were \"Queen Mary\", \"Queen Elizabeth\", and \"Aquitania\", with 2,000 troops, bound for the River Clyde via South Africa. Other notable liners in this great convoy were , , , and . During the early stages of the war the ship transported Australian troops to Suez, India and Singapore but later she mainly served in the North Atlantic. Like \"Aquitania\", she amassed over during the course of her war duties, first crossing of the Indian Ocean, then working the Atlantic with American and Canadian troops and finally serving in the Pacific. One of her wartime voyages, of , took her right around the world, taking 82 days to complete. During this epic voyage she established a speed record for the crossing time from Fremantle, Australia to Durban, South Africa. The distance was covered in 8 days and 19 hours at an average speed of . Another wartime troop transport voyage began in New York on 10 May 1943 and ended in Bombay on 24 June 1943, with calls en route at Trinidad, Rio de Janeiro, Cape Town and Diego Suarez. On 8 January 1944 she was involved in a minor collision with the American tanker \"Hat Creek\" in New York harbour.\n\nDuring the Second World War she travelled and carried over 340,000 troops. \"Mauretania\" was not designed to be an exceptionally fast ship and during six years of war duty, her engines had received little attention but still achieved a turn of speed in 1945 making the passage from Bombay to the UK via the Cape at an average speed of .\n\nAfter the war's end, \"Mauretania\" made several further voyages for the government repatriating troops. This mainly took the ship to Canada and Singapore. In addition, she made at least one voyage from New Zealand via Australia and South Africa to Liverpool. Women and children were crammed ten to a cabin in the bunks used by the troops, while the men were in \"dormitories\" for sixty, sleeping in hammocks. On that voyage she sailed from Cape Town on 10 September 1945. She was delayed for three days off Liverpool by strong winds, and finally docked on 25 September. \"Mauretania\" took the first dedicated sailing of British war brides and their children being patriated to Canada to join their husbands, landing at Pier 21 at Halifax, Nova Scotia in February 1946.\n\nOn 2 September 1946 she returned to Liverpool, was released from government service and immediately went into Gladstone Dock to be reconditioned by Cammell Laird & Co. for return to Cunard White Star service.\n\nAfter a complete overhaul and refurbishment of the interior, \"Mauretania\" made her first post-war Atlantic crossing to New York, departing on 26 April 1947. After using Liverpool as her home port for the first two voyages she was thereafter based at Southampton. Here she acted as the relief ship for \"Queen Mary\" and \"Queen Elizabeth\", standing in on the transatlantic service when one of them was undergoing maintenance. By this time the London to New York service had been discontinued as \"Georgic\", with which she had operated the service was in no fit state to resume passenger duties, while the other partner, \"Britannic\", had been transferred to a new Liverpool to New York service. Later that year she began to be used as a cruise ship during the winter months to the West Indies and the Caribbean. These so-called 'dollar earning cruises' assisted the shattered British economy. In 1948 \"Mauretania\" was used to return home the Wright Brothers historic first aircraft, the 1903 \"Wright Flyer\", where it had been on loan to the Science Museum since 1928. During the next decade she served on the Southampton to New York route during the summer months and operated on cruises from New York during the winter months. When \"Mauretania\" was taken in for her annual overhaul at Liverpool in December 1957 the opportunity was taken to fit air conditioning throughout the ship.\n\nBy 1962, \"Mauretania\" was facing competition from more modern ships and was beginning to lose money for Cunard Line. In October 1962 the ship was painted pale green, like (the famed Green Goddess), and the passenger accommodation was adjusted to accommodate 406 First class, 364 Cabin class and 357 Tourist class passengers. On 28 March 1963 she began a new Mediterranean service calling at New York, Cannes, Genoa and Naples. This was a failure, and by 1964 she was mainly employed cruising from New York to the West Indies.\n\n\"Mauretania\"s final voyage was a Mediterranean cruise which left New York on 15 September 1965. It was announced that on her return to Southampton, \"Mauretania\" would be withdrawn from service and sold. She arrived at Southampton on 10 October 1965 and had already been sold to the British Iron & Steel Corporation. Leaving Southampton on 20 November for her final voyage, she arrived at Thos W Ward's shipbreaking yard in Inverkeithing, Fife, Scotland. She was commanded by Capt. John Treasure Jones who had been Master since 1962. He navigated the mud straits of the Forth without tugboats, and made the final berthing through the shallows above the mud banks on the midnight high tide. It is rumoured that on the way to Fife she sailed up the River Douglas in Lancashire by mistake and became grounded in the mud banks, but this is unlikely as photographs and footage of the \"Mauretania\" being scrapped at Inverkeithing was taken a few months after scrapping began. By late April 1966, her funnels were gone, By mid-1966, the superstructure was removed, leaving only the keel of the ship. Scrapping was finished by late 1966.\n\nFurnishings from the ship were sold during and post scrapping. Paneling, mill work, and other materials from the ship were used in the Famous-Barr department store's Mauretania Room at the West County Mall in Des Peres, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis. The Mauretania Room was a 120 seat luxurious ladies tea room that opened with the store in 1969. The room was removed prior to the demolition and reconstruction of the mall in 2001 to make room for additional shopping as the times changed. The present location of these furnishings is unknown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855306", "title": "Regional routes (South Africa)", "text": "Regional routes (South Africa)\n\nRegional routes (also sometimes known as minor regional routes) are the third category of road in the South African route numbering scheme. They are designated with the letter \"R\" followed by a three-digit number. They serve as feeders connecting smaller towns to the national and provincial routes. Designation as a regional road does not necessarily imply any particular size of road; they range from gravel roads (like the R340 between Plettenberg Bay and Uniondale) to multi-lane freeways (like the R300 in Cape Town). \n\nAlthough most regional roads are maintained by provincial road authorities, this is not universally the case; in provinces which lack capacity, some may be under the control of the National Roads Agency (SANRAL), and in urban areas they may be ordinary streets under the control of the municipal roads department. Similarly, some national (N) roads and freeways are under the control of provincial or municipal authorities rather than SANRAL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855317", "title": "Theodoric of Freiberg", "text": "Theodoric of Freiberg\n\nTheodoric of Freiberg (; – ) was a German member of the Dominican order and a theologian and physicist. He was named provincial of the Dominican Order in 1293, Albert the Great's old post.\n\nDietrich became a Dominican friar very early on in his life, and he studied and taught at the local convent in Freiberg around the year 1271 (Teske 2003). He lived around the time of Albert the Great (1193 to 1280) (Fuhrer 1992) and was greatly inspired by him. Though other philosophers at this time followed in Albert’s footsteps as well, Dietrich “showed the most marked tendency to Albert’s universality of interests” (Fuhrer 1992). From the dates of Albert’s life, we can assume that Dietrich was still young when Albert’s career was almost at its end, and no assumption can be made to whether or not Dietrich ever met or studied under Albert. In medieval documents he is assigned the title of “magister”, which tells us he had a great deal of university training at an advanced level (Fuhrer 1992).\n\nAfter teaching in Freiberg for some time, he journeyed to Paris to study there between the years of 1272 to 1274 (Gillispie 2008), although we do not know whom he may have studied with. In a book titled “Treatise on the Intellect and the Intelligible” translated by M.L. Fuhrer, Fuhrer writes that in the second part of a treatise Dietrich talks about a “solemn master” in Paris. Fuhrer goes on to say that Henry of Ghent was known as “doctor solemnis” by his students, but ultimately states that there can be no certainty that they actually met or knew each other.\n\nDietrich then returned home to Germany for a while before coming back to Paris. Here he began his lectures on Sentences in 1281 (Pasnau 2010). Exactly how long Dietrich remained in Paris in not clear, but it is agreed that he was made the prior of the Dominican convent in Wurzburg around 1293 (Fuhrer 1992). Further sources indicate that he was appointed provincial of Teutonia in 1293 as well (SOMERSET, FIONA 1998). Dietrich was then “promoted”, to the Provincial Superior for the province of Germany, the position previously held by Albert the Great (Pasnau 2010, Fuhrer 1992). Around the years of 1296 and 1297 he was named “master of theology’ in Paris, where he taught up to around 1300 (Teske 2008). Dietrich was also present for the general chapter of the Dominican order at Toulouse and his name appears in the general chapter of the order in Piacenza. The last position Dietrich was appointed to was Vicar provincial of Germany in 1310 (Gillispie 2008). Dietrich’s name does not appear in any kind of document after this time.\n\nWhile 13th century authors failed to provide an accurate explanation for the rainbow, at the turn of the fourteenth century Theodoric was able to give one of the first correct geometrical analyses of this phenomenon, which was \"\"probably the most dramatic development of 14th- and 15th-century optics\"\".\nDrawing from his two earlier works on light and colour, he wrote \"De iride et radialibus impressionibus\" (\"On the Rainbow and the impressions created by irradiance\", c. 1304-1311), relying on geometry, experiment, falsification and other methods. Among other properties he explained in detail:\n\nUsing spherical flasks and glass globes filled with water, Freiberg was able to simulate the water droplets during rainfall. Still in its early stages, experimental instrumentation would later expand to be used primarily for making measurements, extending the human senses and creating and isolated environment for the experimenter. During his experimentation with these glass globes, Freiberg was correct in asserting that the colors formed by the interaction of sunlight with the water droplets.\n\nRecently, scientists have found evidence of the experimental instrumentation used by Freiberg. Currently on loan to Universities in Providence, Rhode Island, the instrumentation does, indeed, simulate a droplet of water by which sunlight is reflected and refracted, thereby creating a rainbow.\n\nOne of his contemporaries, Kamal al-Din al-Farisi, offered the same experimentally-established explanation of the rainbow (without any contacts between them) in his \"Kitab tanqih al-manazir\" (\"The Revision of the Optics\"). Both authors however relied on the \"Book of Optics\" by Ibn al-Haytham (Alhacen)/ Alhazen.\n\nDietrich's theological works tend to be heavily Neoplatonic, while his more secular philosophical works are more Aristotelian. Dietrich disagreed with Thomas Aquinas on certain metaphysical issues, and seems to have written in opposition to particular works by Aquinas.\n\nHe had a remarkable influence on the 10 years younger Meister Eckhart, mainly via the treatises \"De visione beatifica\" (\"Of the beatific vision\") and \"De intellectu et intelligibili\" (\"Of the intellect and the intelligible\"), and one of his extraordinary contributions to medieval philosophy was a theory of the soul that equalled the Aristotelian notion of \"agent intellect\" and the Augustinian notion of \"abditum mentis\" (i.e. the hiddenness, or hidden place of the soul).\n\nThe theory of the agent intellect says that in knowing, the mind is not merely passive, it has to work on producing a conception of its object, a conception which is then received and retained by the passive part of the mind. The hiddenness of the soul, in turn, is the ground of the soul in which God's image is imprinted, a spiritual apex of man's being by which he transcends space and time.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855325", "title": "La Maja desnuda", "text": "La Maja desnuda\n\nThe Nude Maja ( ) is a name given to a c. 1797–1800 oil on canvas painting by the Spanish artist Francisco Goya. It portrays a nude woman reclining on a bed of pillows, and was probably commissioned by Manuel de Godoy, to hang in his private collection in a separate cabinet reserved for nude paintings. Goya created a pendant of the same woman identically posed, but clothed, known today as \"La maja vestida\" (\"The Clothed Maja\"); also in the Prado, it is usually hung next to \"La maja desnuda\". The subject is identified as a maja based on her costume in \"La maja vestida\".\n\nThe painting is renowned for the straightforward and unashamed gaze of the model towards the viewer. It has also been cited as among the earliest Western artwork to depict a nude woman's pubic hair without obvious negative connotations (such as in images of prostitutes). With this work Goya not only upset the ecclesiastical authorities, but also titillated the public and extended the artistic horizon of the day. It has been in the Museo del Prado in Madrid since 1901.\n\nAlthough the two versions of the Maja are the same size, the sitter in the clothed version occupies a slightly larger proportion of the pictorial space; according to art historian Janis Tomlinson she seems almost to \"press boldly against the confines of her frame\", making her more brazen in comparison to the comparatively \"timid\" nude portrait.\n\nThe painting carries many of the traditions of depictions of the nude in Spanish art, but marks a clear break in significant ways, especially in her bold gaze. Further, the accompanying pendant showing a woman in contemporary dress makes it clear that the focus of the work is not of a mythological subject, as in Velázquez's \"Rokeby Venus\", but in fact of a nude Spanish woman. More obviously, while Velázquez painted his Venus revealing only her back, Goya's portrait is a full frontal view. Goya's figuration is short and angular, while Velázquez's is elongated and curved, and his figure placed on richly coloured satin, which starkly contrasts to the bare white cloths Goya's maja rests on.\n\nThe identity of the model and why the paintings were created are unknown. Both paintings are first recorded in an inventory of unpopular and unsuccessful art by Prime Minister Manuel de Godoy, Duke of Alcúdia in 1800, when they were hung in a private room reserved for nude paintings, alongside such works as Velázquez's \"Rokeby Venus\". Godoy retained the picture for six years before it was discovered by investigators for the Spanish Inquisition in 1808, along with his other \"questionable pictures\". Godoy and the curator of his collection, Don Francisco de Garivay, were brought before a tribunal and forced to reveal the artists behind the confiscated art works which were \"so indecent and prejudicial to the public good.\"\nThe controversy was populist and driven by a political motive, following a mob gathering demanding Godoy's removal as Prime Minister. In the fallout, Goya was named and summoned on a charge of moral depravity. As Godoy had only been found in possession of the painting, Goya was asked to identify why \"he did them\", and also \"at whose request, and what attention guided him.\" His answers do not survive, but we know that the Director of Confiscations noted that Goya had only followed and emulated Titian's \"Danaë\" series and Velázquez's \"Rokeby Venus\"; two painters, and their works, very much admired by the court and church, including their nudes, and the Inquisition had not found anything objectionable in the \"Rokeby Venus\".\n\nGoya escaped prosecution when the tribunal accepted that he was following in a tradition, and emulating a Velázquez painting which had been favoured by Philip IV of Spain. The earlier picture of Venus had been similarly kept out of view by that art-loving king in a private room, \"the room where His Majesty retires after eating.\" In fact, the Inquisition by 1808 was nearing the end of its influence, and while it could draw attention to \"dangerous\" forms of expression, be they books, plays, or paintings, it was usually unable to fully suppress them.\n\n\"La maja desnuda\" has always hung alongside, above, or before its companion. They were twice in the collection of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando, also in Madrid, being \"sequestered\" by the Inquisition between 1814 and 1836 before being returned. They have been in the Prado since 1901.\n\nIt is not known if the two works were intended to be hung together. One early account gives the \"Clothed Maja\" placed in front of the current work; the pull of a cord revealed the nude version. Today they are hung side by side, although others have suggested that they were intended to be spaced apart, and seen in succession.\n\nIt has been conjectured that the woman depicted was Godoy's young mistress Pepita Tudó. It has also been suggested that the woman was María del Pilar Teresa Cayetana de Silva y Álvarez de Toledo, 13th Duchess of Alba, with whom Goya is rumored to have been romantically involved and whose portrait he painted twice (in 1795 and 1797). However, many scholars have rejected this possibility, including Australian art critic Robert Hughes in his 2003 biography \"Goya\". Many agree that Pepita Tudó is a more likely candidate. Others believe that the woman is a composite of several different models.\n\nThe word \"maja\" is the feminine form of \"majo\", a low class Spaniard of the 18th and 19th century.\n\nThe work has inspired other artists. Jeffrey Meyers, in his book \"Impressionist Quartet: The Intimate Genius of Manet and Morisot, Degas and Cassatt\", opines that Manet's \"Olympia\" \"boldly alluded to another masterpiece, Goya's \"Naked Maja\".\"\n\nTwo sets of stamps depicting \"La maja desnuda\" in commemoration of Goya's work were privately produced in 1930, and later approved by the Spanish Postal Authority.\n\nThe novel \"The Naked Maja\" (by Samuel Edwards, 1959) is based on Goya's affairs with the Duchess. Later that same year, an Italian-French-American co-production film based on this novel (sharing the same name) was made by S.G.C., Titanus Films, and United Artists.\n\nThe painting figures into the plot of film \"Toto in Madrid\", an Italian comedy film from 1959, directed by Steno, written by Vittorio Metz, starring Totò and Louis de Funès.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855332", "title": "Minority Party (Denmark)", "text": "Minority Party (Denmark)\n\nThe Minority Party () is a former Danish political party that did not gain parliamentary representation.\n\nThe Minority Party was founded in 2000 by a group of minority groups. One of the party's primus motors were Rune Engelbreth Larsen, who was chairman of the party during the 2005 parliamentary election. Engelbreth Larsen was formerly known as editor of the intellectual left-wing dissident magazine Faklen (The Torch).\n\nDuring the 2005 election campaign, the Minority Party opposed the consensus among most Danish parties to tighten immigration controls further. The chairman of the party, Rune Engelbreth Larsen, went so far as to call the chairman of the nationalist Danish People's Party a racist.\n\nIn the 2005 election, the Minority Party only got 0.3 percent of the votes and did not achieve parliamentary representation. Many saw this as a result of the offensive and confrontational way the party dealt with the Danish People's Party, but mostly that they failed to indicate what they wanted to change or influence in Danish politics. The party did not seek representation in the 2007 election and was formally dissolved by the end of 2007.\n\nThe party identified itself as humanist and officially rejected both socialism and liberalism. Among its stated goals were social justice and the freedom to be different, to be achieved through economic and humanitarian support for groups considered marginalised (such as the unemployed and immigrants) and embracement of multiculturalism. It specifically did not consider itself a \"homeless\" or \"immigrant\" party, but rather a party emphasizing common human dignity.\n\nSocialism was denounced on the grounds that it is potentially totalitarian and suppressive of the diversity of which the party proclaims itself supportive; it considered the notion of a great, suppressed working class archaic. Rather, it thought that the perceived vulnerable parts of society are different from those of the 19th century. Liberalism was rejected by the party, stating that the accompanying freedoms are based around money and greed as opposed to human decency. The party strongly criticised populism and what it perceived as the political right's throwing suspicion on immigrants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855334", "title": "SS Kaiser Wilhelm II", "text": "SS Kaiser Wilhelm II\n\nThe second SS \"Kaiser Wilhelm II, named for the German Emperor, was a 19,361 gross ton passenger ship built at Stettin, Germany (now Szczecin, Poland). The ship was completed in the spring of 1903. The ship was seized by the U.S. Government during World War I, and subsequently served as a transport ship under the name USS Agamemnon\". A famous photograph taken by Alfred Stieglitz called \"The Steerage\", as well as descriptions of the conditions of travel in the lowest class, have conflicted with her otherwise glitzy reputation as a high class, high speed trans-Atlantic liner.\n\nDesigned for high speed trans-Atlantic service, \"Kaiser Wilhelm II\" was launched at Stettin on 12 August 1902, in the presence of the German Emperor, for whom it was named by Miss Wiegand, daughter of Heinrich Wiegand, director of its owner Norddeutscher Lloyd.\n\nShe won the Blue Riband for the fastest eastbound crossing in 1904. In the years before the outbreak of World War I, she made regular trips between Germany and New York, carrying passengers both prestigious (in first class) and profitable (in the much more austere steerage). \n\nOn 17 June 1914 \"Kaiser Wilhelm II\" collided with the 3000 ton British steamer \"Incemore\" in thick fog off the Needles. \"Kaiser\" hull was holed below the waterline, but the ship's watertight bulkheads held and the ship returned to Southampton under her own power. \"Kaiser Wilhelm II\" was west-bound when war with Britain began on 4 August 1914 and, after evading patrolling British cruisers, arrived at New York two days later.\n\nShe was seized by the U.S. Government when it declared war on Germany on 6 April 1917, and work soon began to repair her machinery, sabotaged earlier by a German caretaker crew, and otherwise prepare the ship for use as a transport. While this work progressed, she was employed as a barracks ship at the New York Navy Yard.\n\nThe U.S. Navy placed the ship in commission as USS \"Kaiser Wilhelm II\" (ID-3004) in late August 1917. Her name was changed to \"Agamemnon\" at the beginning of September and active war work commenced at the end of October, when she left for her first troopship voyage to France. While at sea on 9 November 1917, she was damaged in a collision with another large ex-German transport, , but delivered her passengers to the war zone a few days later. Following her return to the U.S. in December and subsequent repair work, \"Agamemnon\" again steamed to France in mid-January 1918 and thereafter regularly crossed the Atlantic as part of the effort to establish a major American military presence on the Western Front. The routine was occasionally punctuated by encounters with real or suspected U-boats and, during the autumn of 1918, with outbreaks of influenza on board.\n\nIn mid-December 1918, just over a month after the Armistice ended the fighting, \"Agamemnon\" began to bring Americans home from France. She made nine voyages by August 1919, carrying nearly 42,000 service personnel, some four thousand more than she had transported overseas during wartime. USS \"Agamemnon\" was decommissioned in late August and turned over to the War Department for further use as a U.S. Army Transport. Laid up after the middle 1920s, she was renamed \"Monticello\" in 1927 but had no further active service. \"Monticello\" was considered too old for future use and sold for scrap in 1940.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855338", "title": "Socialist Democrat Party", "text": "Socialist Democrat Party\n\nSocialist Democrat Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Demócrata Socialista\") was a political party in Peru that was founded in 1944. Its president was Luis A. Suárez, internal secretary Manuel Sánchez Palacios and organizational secretary G. Carrión Matos.\n"}
{"id": "1855340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855340", "title": "Arwad", "text": "Arwad\n\nArwad, the classical Aradus; (), is a town in Syria on an eponymous island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is the administrative center of the Arwad Subdistrict (\"nahiyah\"), of which it is the only locality. It is the only inhabited island in Syria. It is located from Tartus (the ancient Tortosa), Syria's second-largest port. \n\nToday, Arwad is mainly a fishing town. According to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics, during the 2004 census, it had a population of 4,403, predominantly Sunni Muslims. Plans were unveiled in May 2016 to renovate the island to become a tourist attraction. \n\nThe original Phoenician city was probably named Aynuk (, ). It was also known as Jazirat, \"The Island\". It is mentioned in the Annals of Thutmose III at the Karnak Temple as Artou. It eventually became known as Arvad, Arpad, and Arphad. These were hellenized as \"Árados\" (), which was Latinized as Aradus. In Arabic, it became \"Arwad\" ().\n\nUnder the Seleucid Empire, AntiochusI renamed it Antioch after himself or the father of Seleucus the Great. It was distinguished from several other cities of that name as Antioch or (, \"Antiókeia tôs Pierías\").\n\nIts site is also known as .\n\nThe island was settled in the early 2nd millenniumBC by the Phoenicians. Located some north of Tripolis, it was a barren rock covered with fortifications and houses several stories in height. The island was about 800 m long by 500 m wide, surrounded by a massive wall, and an artificial harbor was constructed on the east toward the mainland. It developed into a trading city in early times, as did most of the Phoenician cities on this coast. It had a powerful navy, and its ships are mentioned in the monuments of Egypt and Assyria. In the Bible, an \"Arvad\" is noted as the forefather of the \"Arvadites\", a Canaanite people. \n\nThe city of Arwad seems to have had a sort of hegemony over the northern Phoenician cities, from the mouth of the Orontes to the northern limits of Lebanon, something like that of Sidon in the south. It brought under its authority some of the neighboring cities on the mainland, such as Marat (present-day Amrit) and Sumur, the former nearly opposite the island and the latter some kilometers to the south. It had its own local dynasty and coinage, and some of the names of its kings have been recovered. \n\nThutmose III of Egypt took it in his campaign in north Syria (1472BC), and it is noticed in the campaigns of Ramesses II in the early part of the 13th centuryBC. It is also mentioned in the Amarna letters as being in league with the Amorites in their attacks on the Egyptian possessions in Syria. About 1200BC or a little later, it was sacked by invaders from Asia Minor or the islands, as were most of the cities on the coast. but it recovered when they were driven back.\n\nThe Book of Ezekiel refers to its seamen and soldiers in the service of Tyre. Its maritime importance is indicated by the inscriptions of the Assyrian kings. Tiglath-pileser I (BC) boasts that he sailed in the ships of Arwad. Ashurnasirpal II (BC) made it tributary, but it revolted and 200 men of Arwad were mentioned among the allies of Hadadezer of Aram Damascus at the Battle of Qarqar, when all Syria seems to have been in league against Shalmaneser III (). At this time, the king of Arwad was Mattan Baal. It was afterward tributary to Tiglath-pileser III and Sennacherib; under Sennacherib, its king was Abd-Ilihit . Ashurbanipal () compelled its king Yakinlu to submit and send one of his daughters to become a member of the royal harem.\n\nUnder the Persians, Arwad was allowed to unite in a confederation with Sidon and Tyre, with a common council at Tripolis. When Alexander the Great invaded Syria in 332BC, Arwad submitted without a struggle under her king Strato, who sent his navy to aid Alexander in the reduction of Tyre. It seems to have received the favor of the Seleucid kings of Syria and enjoyed the right of asylum for political refugees. It is mentioned in a rescript from Rome about 138BC in connection with other cities and rulers of the East, to show favor to the Jews. This was after Rome had begun to interfere in the affairs of Judea and Syria and indicates that Arwad was still of considerable importance at that time.\n\nThe city has been cited as one of the first known examples of a republic in the Levant region, in which the people, rather than a monarch, are described as sovereign. The island was important as a base for commercial ventures into the Orontes valley.\n\nArwad inaugurated a new civic era in 259 BC, when its traditional royalty disappeared, and it became a free independent city within the Seleucid kingdom, during the reign of Antiochus II.\n\nIn Roman times, Arwad fiercely resisted Mark Antony when he came to Syria to find money there. When the city refused to co-operate, it was besieged in 38 BC, then eventually surrendered, which marked the end of its independence in 34–35 BC.\n\nThe city of Aradus, as it was then called, became a Christian bishopric. Athanasius reports that, under Roman Emperor Constantine the Great, Cymatius, the Catholic bishop of Aradus and also of Antaradus (whose names indicate that they were neighbouring towns facing each other) was driven out by the Arians. At the First Council of Constantinople in 381, Mocimus appears as bishop of Aradus. At the time of the Council of Ephesus (431), some sources speak of a Musaeus as bishop of Aradus and Antaradus, while others mention only Aradus or only Antaradus. Alexander was at the Council of Chalcedon in 451 as bishop of Antaradus, Paulus as bishop of Aradus, while, at a synod held at Antioch shortly before, Paulus took part as bishop of both Aradus and Antaradus.\n\nIn 458, Atticus signed, as bishop of Aradus, the letter of the bishops of the province of Phoenicia Prima to Byzantine Emperor Leo I the Thracian protesting about the murder of Proterius of Alexandria. Theodorus or Theodosius, who died in 518, is mentioned as bishop of Antaradus in a letter from the bishops of the province regarding Severus of Antioch that was read at a synod held by Patriarch Mennas of Constantinople. The acts of the Second Council of Constantinople in 553 were signed by Asyncretius as bishop of Aradus. At the time of the Crusades, Antaradus, by then called Tartus or Tortosa, was a Latin Church diocese, whose bishop also held the titles of Aradus and Maraclea (perhaps Rachlea).\n\nIt was united to the see of Famagusta in Cyprus in 1295. No longer a residential bishopric, Aradus is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\nDuring the later part of the 13th century, in the time of the Crusades, the island of Ruad was used as a bridgehead or staging area by the Crusaders. It was the last piece of land that the Crusaders maintained in the Holy Land, as they were fighting a losing battle against the Muslims.\n\nThe Crusaders had lost control of the mainland in 1291 (see Fall of Acre), and the dwindling Kingdom of Jerusalem had been relocated to the island of Cyprus. In late 1300, in an attempt to coordinate military operations with the Mongol leader Ghazan, the Cypriots prepared a land-based force of approximately 600 men: 300 under Amalric of Lusignan, son of Hugh III of Cyprus, and similar contingents from the Templars and Hospitallers. The men and their horses were ferried from Cyprus to a staging area on Ruad, from which they launched raids on Tortosa while awaiting Mongol reinforcements. When the Mongols failed to arrive, the majority of the Christian forces returned to Cyprus, though a garrison was left on Ruad which was manned by rotating groups of different Cypriot forces. Pope Clement V formally awarded ownership of the island to the Knights Templar, who (in 1302) maintained a garrison with 120 knights, 500 bowmen and 400 Syrian helpers, under the Templar Maréchal (Commander-in-Chief) .\n\nIn February 1301, the Mongols did arrive with a force of 60,000, but could do little else than engage in some raids around Syria. The Mongol leader Kutluka stationed 20,000 horsemen in the Jordan valley to protect Damascus, where a Mongol governor was installed. Soon however, they had to withdraw.\n\nThe Egyptian Mamluks, who had been systematically re-establishing control over Palestine and Syria, sought to take Ruad as well. A Mamluk fleet landed a force on the island, engaging in combat with the entrenched Templars, and then establishing a lengthy siege, culminating with the Fall of Ruad, and the Crusaders surrendering on September 26, 1302, following a promise of safe conduct. However, the promise was not honored: all the bowmen and Syrian helpers were killed, and the Templar knights were sent to Cairo prisons.\n\nDuring WWI, the island was occupied by the French navy on 1 September 1915, under the leadership of Admiral Louis Dartige du Fournet, including warships such as \"Jauréguiberry\", \"Jeanne d'Arc\" and \"Destrées\". Later on, was appointed as its governor. Afterwards, the island was bombed by the Ottomans in November 1917, but their attack was repulsed by French sailors.\n\nIn 1945, at the end of WWII, France wanted to preserve the island, hence started working to build a military base, in a geopolitical framework, to maintain a military position in the region, and to keep a cultural influence. But as a result of pressure from the United States, the island was ceded unconditionally to Syria at the end of 1945, a decision confirmed in 1946.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855342", "title": "Historical rankings of presidents of the United States", "text": "Historical rankings of presidents of the United States\n\nIn political studies, surveys have been conducted in order to construct historical rankings of the success of individuals who have served as the president of the United States. Ranking systems are usually based on surveys of academic historians and political scientists or popular opinion. The rankings focus on presidential achievements, leadership qualities, failures, and faults.\n\nAbraham Lincoln, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and George Washington are most often listed as the three highest-rated presidents among historians. The remaining places within the Top 10 are often rounded out by Theodore Roosevelt, Thomas Jefferson, Harry S. Truman, Woodrow Wilson, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Andrew Jackson, and John F. Kennedy. More recent presidents such as Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton are often rated among the greatest in public opinion polls, but do not always rank as highly among presidential scholars and historians. The bottom 10 often include James Buchanan, Warren G. Harding, Andrew Johnson, Franklin Pierce, Millard Fillmore, William Henry Harrison, John Tyler, Ulysses S. Grant, Zachary Taylor, and George W. Bush. Because William Henry Harrison (31 days) and James A. Garfield (200 days, incapacitated after 119 days) both died shortly after taking office, they are usually omitted from presidential rankings. Furthermore, Zachary Taylor died after serving as president for only 16 months, but he is usually included. In the case of these three, it is not clear if they received low rankings due to their actions as president, or because each was in office for such a limited time that it is not possible to assess them more thoroughly.\n\nPolitical scientist Walter Dean Burnham noted the \"dichotomous or schizoid profiles\" of presidents, which can make some hard to classify. Historian Alan Brinkley stated that \"there are presidents who could be considered both failures and great or near great (for example, Nixon)\". Historian and political scientist James MacGregor Burns observed of Nixon: \"How can one evaluate such an idiosyncratic president, so brilliant and so morally lacking?\"\n\nThe 1948 poll was conducted by historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr. of Harvard University. The 1962 survey was also conducted by Schlesinger, who surveyed 75 historians. Schlesinger's son, Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., conducted another poll in 1996.\n\n\"The Complete Book of U.S. Presidents\" also gives the results of the 1982 survey, a poll of 49 historians conducted by the \"Chicago Tribune\". A notable difference from the 1962 Schlesinger poll was the ranking of Dwight D. Eisenhower, which rose from 22nd in 1962 to 9th in 1982.\n\nThe 1996 column shows the results from a poll conducted from 1988 to 1996 by William J. Ridings Jr. and Stuart B. McIver and published in \"Rating The Presidents: A Ranking of U.S. Leaders, from the Great and Honorable to the Dishonest and Incompetent\". More than 719 people took part in the poll, primarily academic historians and political scientists, although some politicians and celebrities also took part. Participants from every state were included and emphasis was placed upon getting input from female historians and \"specialists in African-American studies\" as well as a few non-American historians. Poll respondents rated the presidents in five categories (leadership qualities, accomplishments and crisis management, political skill, appointments and character and integrity) and the results were tabulated to create the overall ranking.\n\nA 2000 survey by \"The Wall Street Journal\" consisted of an \"ideologically balanced group of 132 prominent professors of history, law, and political science\". This poll sought to include an equal number of liberals and conservatives in the survey as the editors argued that previous polls were dominated by either one group or the other. According to the editors, this poll included responses from more women, minorities and young professors than the 1996 Schlesinger poll. The editors noted that the results of their poll were \"remarkably similar\" to the 1996 Schlesinger poll, with the main difference in the 2000 poll being the lower rankings for the 1960s presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and John F. Kennedy and higher ranking of President Ronald Reagan at 8th. Franklin D. Roosevelt still ranked in the top three.\n\nAnother presidential poll was conducted by \"The Wall Street Journal\" in 2005, with James Lindgren of Northwestern University Law School for the Federalist Society. As in the 2000 survey, the editors sought to balance the opinions of liberals and conservatives, adjusting the results \"to give Democratic- and Republican-leaning scholars equal weight\". Franklin D. Roosevelt still ranked in the top three, but editor James Taranto noted that Democratic-leaning scholars rated George W. Bush the sixth-worst president of all time while Republican scholars rated him the sixth-best, giving him a split-decision rating of \"average\".\n\nThe Siena College Research Institute of Siena College has conducted surveys in 1982, 1990, 1994, 2002, 2010, and 2018—during the second year of the first term of each president since Ronald Reagan. These surveys collect presidential rankings from historians, political scientists, and presidential scholars in a range of attributes, abilities, and accomplishments. The 1994 survey placed only two presidents, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln, above 80 points and two presidents, Andrew Johnson and Warren G. Harding, below 50 points.\n\nA 2006 Siena College poll of 744 professors reported the following results:\n\nThomas Kelly, professor emeritus of American studies at Siena College, said: \"President Bush would seem to have small hope for high marks from the current generation of practicing historians and political scientists. In this case, current public opinion polls actually seem to cut the President more slack than the experts do\". Douglas Lonnstrom, Siena College professor of statistics and director of the Siena Research Institute, stated: \"In our 2002 presidential rating, with a group of experts comparable to this current poll, President Bush ranked 23rd of 42 presidents. That was shortly after 9/11. Clearly, the professors do not think things have gone well for him in the past few years. These are the experts that teach college students today and will write the history of this era tomorrow\".\n\nThe 2010 Siena poll of 238 presidential scholars found that former president George W. Bush was ranked 39th out of 43, with poor ratings in handling of the economy, communication, ability to compromise, foreign policy accomplishments and intelligence. Meanwhile, the then-current president Barack Obama was ranked 15th out of 43, with high ratings for imagination, communication ability and intelligence and a low rating for background (family, education and experience).\n\nThe 2018 Siena poll of 157 presidential scholars reported George Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, and Thomas Jefferson as the top five US presidents, with SCRI director Don Levy stating, \"The top five, Mount Rushmore plus FDR, is carved in granite with presidential historians...\" Donald J. Trump—entering the SCRI survey for the first time—joined Andrew Johnson, James Buchanan, Warren G. Harding, and Franklin Pierce among the bottom five US presidents. George W. Bush, who presidential scholars had rated among the bottom five in the previous 2010 survey, improved to a position in the third quartile.\n\nThe C-SPAN Survey of Presidential Leadership consists of rankings from a group of presidential historians and biographers. The C-SPAN Survey of Presidential Leadership has taken place three times: in 2000, 2009 and 2017. The most recent survey was of 91 presidential historians, surveyed by C-SPAN's Academic Advisor Team, made up of Douglas G. Brinkley, Edna Greene Medford and Richard Norton Smith. In the survey, each historian rates each president on a scale of one (\"not effective\") to 10 (\"very effective\") on presidential leadership in ten categories: Public Persuasion, Crisis Leadership, Economic Management, Moral Authority, International Relations, Administrative Skills, Relations with Congress, Vision/Setting An Agenda, Pursued Equal Justice for All and Performance Within the Context of His Times—each category is equally weighed. The results of all three C-SPAN surveys have been fairly consistent. Abraham Lincoln has taken the highest ranking in each survey and George Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Theodore Roosevelt have always ranked in the top five while James Buchanan, Andrew Johnson and Franklin Pierce have been ranked at the bottom of all three surveys.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Times\" daily newspaper of London asked eight of its own \"top international and political commentators\" to rank all 42 presidents \"in order of greatness\".\n\nIn 2011, through the agency of its United States Presidency Centre (USPC), the Institute for the Study of the Americas (located in the University of London's School of Advanced Study) released the first ever United Kingdom academic survey to rate presidents. This polled the opinion of British specialists in American history and politics to assess presidential performance. They also gave an interim assessment of Barack Obama, but his unfinished presidency was not included in the survey (had he been included, he would have attained eighth place overall).\n\nIn 2012, \"Newsweek\" magazine asked a panel of historians to rank the ten best presidents since 1900. The results showed that historians had ranked Franklin D. Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt, Lyndon B. Johnson, Woodrow Wilson, Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama as the best since that year.\n\nA 2013 History News Network poll of 203 American historians, when asked to rate Obama's presidency on an A–F scale, gave him a B- grade. Obama, whom historians graded using 15 separate measures plus an overall grade, was rated most highly in the categories of communication ability, integrity and crisis management; and most poorly for his relationship with Congress, transparency and accountability.\n\nA 2015 poll administered by the American Political Science Association (APSA) among political scientists specializing in the American presidency had Abraham Lincoln in the top spot, with George Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt, Thomas Jefferson, Harry S. Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Bill Clinton, Andrew Jackson and Woodrow Wilson making the top 10. APSA conducted a repeat of this poll in 2018, with Donald Trump appearing for the first time, in last position.\n\nWithin each column:\nNote: click the \"sort\" icon at the head of each column to view the rankings for each survey in numerical order.\n\nThe Murray-Blessing 1982 survey asked historians whether they were liberal or conservative on domestic, social and economic issues. The table below shows that the two groups had only small differences in ranking the best and worst presidents. Both groups agreed on the composition of nine of the top ten presidents (and were split over the inclusion of either Lyndon B. Johnson or Dwight D. Eisenhower) and six of the worst seven (split over Jimmy Carter or Calvin Coolidge).\n\nAccording to a Rasmussen poll conducted in 2007, six presidents—George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy—were rated favorably by at least 80% of Americans.\n\nA Gallup poll about presidential greatness taken February 2–5, 2011, asked 1,015 adults in the United States the following question: \"Who do you regard as the greatest United States president?\".\n\nIn addition, \"Other\" received 1%, \"None\" received 1% and \"No opinion\" received 5%.\n\nThese polls evaluate recent presidents only.\n\nA Gallup poll taken on November 19–21, 2010, asked 1,037 Americans to say, based on what they know or remember about the nine most recent former presidents, whether they approve or disapprove of how each handled his job in office.\n\n\nA Public Policy Polling poll taken between September 8–11, 2011, asked 665 American voters, based on what they know or remember about the nine then-most recent former presidents, whether they hold favorable or unfavorable views of how each handled his job in office.\n\n\nA Vision Critical/Angus Reid Public Opinion poll taken on February 18–19, 2011, asked 1,010 respondents about 11 former presidents plus the current president and whether each was a good or bad president.\n\n\nA Gallup poll taken November 7–10, 2013, asked 1,039 adults in the United States the following question: \"How do you think each of the following presidents will go down in history—as an outstanding president, above average, average, below average, or poor?\".\n\nA Quinnipiac University poll taken June 24–30, 2014, asked 1,446 registered voters in the United States who they thought were the best and worst presidents since World War II.\n\nFour years later, a Quinnipiac University poll taken January 20–25, 2017, asked 1,190 voters in the United States who they thought were the best and worst presidents since World War II.\n\nIncluding for the first time President Donald Trump, a Morning Consult poll taken February 9–10, 2017, asked 1,791 registered voters in the United States, who they thought were the best and worst presidents since World War II.\n\nA Quinnipiac University poll taken March 3–5, 2018, asked 1,122 voters in the United States who they thought were the best and worst presidents since World War II.\n\nAbbreviations\n\nSource:\n\nAbbreviations\n\nSource:\n\nOn February 13, 2019, Siena released its 6th presidential poll.\n\nThe poll was initiated in 1982 and occurs one year into the term of each new president. It is currently a survey of 157 presidential scholars, across a range of leadership parameters.\n\nThe ranking gave the top five spots to George Washington, Franklin Roosevelt (FDR), Abraham Lincoln, Theodore (Teddy) Roosevelt and Thomas Jefferson. This top five, described as Mt. Rushmore plus FDR, was consistent with prior surveys. Washington had been ranked fourth in all previous surveys, and FDR first.\n\nAbbreviations\n\n\nIn November 2014, Henry L. Roediger III and K. Andrew DeSoto published a study in the journal \"Science\" asking research subjects to name as many presidents as possible. They reported data from three generations as well as from an online survey conducted in 2014. The percentage of participants in the online survey sample who could name each president was the following:\n\nDavid H. Donald, noted biographer of Abraham Lincoln, relates that when he met John F. Kennedy in 1961, Kennedy voiced his deep dissatisfaction and resentment with historians who had rated some of his predecessors. Kennedy remarked, \"No one has a right to grade a president — even poor James Buchanan — who has not sat in his chair, examined the mail and information that came across his desk, and learned why he made his decisions\". Historian and political scientist Julian E. Zelizer has argued that traditional presidential rankings explain little concerning actual presidential history and that they are \"weak mechanisms for evaluating what has taken place in the White House\".\n\nThe broadly static nature of the rankings over multiple decades has also been called into question, particularly given that the frequent nature of previously unknown material about American government getting exposed.\n\nAlvin S. Felzenberg, a professor at both the Elliot School of International Affairs within George Washington University and the Annenberg School for Communication within the University of Pennsylvania, has authored \"The Leaders We Deserved (and a Few We Didn't)\" in an attempt to revise the understanding of presidential rankings. Felzenberg's broad motivation for the book came from his interest in American presidents and his intent \"not to fix their reputations in concrete, but to provoke discussion.\"\n\nLooking back at past discussions over the various ranking methodologies the author argues that the academic process has fallen victim to certain negative trends, and he stresses that the analysis must not only attempt to evaluate individuals based on broad assessments of their performance but on a composite approach looking at different leadership categories. These, in Felzenberg's opinion, should include looking at diverse factors from the performance of the U.S. economy due to presidential actions to leaders' behaviors in advancing the causes of individual liberty to intellectual competence in the administrations managed by the presidents and more.\n\nIn his study of American history, the author finds fault with conventional wisdom in certain areas and agrees with it in others. Notably, Felzenberg's assessment of Abraham Lincoln as America's greatest president is followed closely by that of George Washington as its second greatest while both Ronald Reagan and Theodore Roosevelt tie for third place. Dwight D. Eisenhower falls into fifth place.\n\nIn 2002, Ron Walters, former director of the University of Maryland's African American Leadership Institute, stated that presidents ranked by how each one balanced the interests of majority interests and the interests of excluded groups was practical in respect to American debate on racial politics. Presidents have traditionally been ranked on personal qualities and their leadership ability to solve problems that move the nation in a positive direction. Walters stated there was a qualitative difference between white and African-American intellectuals in evaluating presidents. In the 1996 \"New York Times\" poll by Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., 31 white historians and one black historian ranked presidents on differing categories of greatness. In a survey done by professors Hanes Walton Jr. and Robert Smith and in their text book \"American Politics And The African American Quest For Universal Freedom\", 44 African-American political scientists and historians ranked presidents in terms of racial attitudes and racial legislation proposed. Individual presidents' attitudes, policies and perspectives were historically ranked in five categories: White Supremacist; Racist; Racially Neutral; Racially Ambivalent; Antiracist.\n\nIn May 2019, the Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, \"in conjunction the Dr. Christina Greer of Fordham University, the Center for the Study of Diversity and Democracy’s conducted a poll of 113 academic researchers and asked them to rate the 14 modern presidents on both their overall leadership and rhetoric on diversity and inclusion using a scale ranging from 0 to 100.\" Survey respondents were significantly more liberal than the national average, \"with only 13 percent of the respondents describing themselves as either moderate, slightly conservative, or conservative.\" However, \"similar patterns of ratings [were stated to be found] across the ideological spectrum\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855348", "title": "National Renewal (Peru)", "text": "National Renewal (Peru)\n\nNational Renewal (in Spanish: \"Renovación Nacional\"), is a Christian democratic and right-leaning political party in Peru that was founded in 1992 in Lima by conservative politician Rafael Rey.\n"}
{"id": "1855351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855351", "title": "RMS Caronia (1904)", "text": "RMS Caronia (1904)\n\nRMS \"Caronia\" was a British ocean liner, launched on 13 July 1904. She was built for Cunard by John Brown & Co. of Glasgow. She was the only ship in the Cunard fleet to be named after an American, being named after Caro Brown, granddaughter of Cunard's New York agent. She left Liverpool on her maiden voyage to New York on 25 February 1905. A successful 1906 cruise from New York to the Mediterranean led to \"Caronia\" being used for cruising frequently in the coming years.\n\nOn 14 April 1912 \"Caronia\" sent the first ice warning at 09:00 to reporting \"bergs, growlers and field ice\".\n\n\"Caronia\" was briefly placed on Cunard's Boston service in 1914, but the start of the First World War caused her to be requisitioned as an armed merchant cruiser. She was stationed off New York on contraband patrol. In 1916, she became a troopship and served in that role for the duration. Her last duties being the repatriation of Canadian troops in 1919. She returned to the Liverpool – New York run after the war.\n\nIn 1920 \"Caronia\" was converted to burn oil instead of coal.\n\nAfter returning to service, she sailed on a number of different routes, including:\n\nHer last voyage, from London to New York was on 12 September 1932, after which she was sold for scrap. Initially sold to Hughes Bolckow for demolition at Blyth, Northumberland, she was resold, renamed \"Taiseiyo Maru\" and sailed to Osaka, Japan, where she was scrapped in 1933.\n\n\"Caronia\" was fitted with the older quadruple-expansion engine technology; whilst had turbines and proved to be the more economical of the two liners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855352", "title": "Daule River", "text": "Daule River\n\nThe Daule River is a river in Ecuador, in Guayas Province. At Guayaquil, it joins the Babahoyo River; from that point the confluence becomes the Guayas River.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855357", "title": "Ecosystem services", "text": "Ecosystem services\n\nEcosystem services are the many and varied benefits to humans gifted by the natural environment and from healthy ecosystems. Such ecosystems include, for example, agroecosystems, forest ecosystems, grassland ecosystems and aquatic ecosystems. These ecosystems, functioning in healthy relationship, offer such things like natural pollination of crops, clean air, extreme weather mitigation, human mental and physical well-being. Collectively, these benefits are becoming known as 'ecosystem services', and are often integral to the provisioning of clean drinking water, the decomposition of wastes, and resilience and productivity of food ecosystems.\n\nWhile scientists and environmentalists have discussed ecosystem services implicitly for decades, the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) in the early 2000s popularized this concept. There, ecosystem services are grouped into four broad categories: \"provisioning\", such as the production of food and water; \"regulating\", such as the control of climate and disease; \"supporting\", such as nutrient cycles and oxygen production; and \"cultural\", such as spiritual and recreational benefits. To help inform decision-makers, many ecosystem services are being valuated in order to draw equivalent comparisons to human engineered infrastructure and services.\n\nWhile the notion of human dependence on Earth's ecosystems reaches to the start of \"Homo sapiens\" existence, the term 'natural capital' was first coined by E.F. Schumacher in 1973 in his book \"Small is Beautiful\" \".\" Recognition of how ecosystems could provide complex services to humankind date back to at least Plato (c. 400 BC) who understood that deforestation could lead to soil erosion and the drying of springs. Modern ideas of ecosystem services probably began when Marsh challenged in 1864 the idea that Earth's natural resources are unbounded by pointing out changes in soil fertility in the Mediterranean. It was not until the late 1940s that three key authors—Henry Fairfield Osborn, Jr, William Vogt, and Aldo Leopold —promoted recognition of human dependence on the environment.\n\nIn 1956, Paul Sears drew attention to the critical role of the ecosystem in processing wastes and recycling nutrients. In 1970, Paul Ehrlich and Rosa Weigert called attention to \"ecological systems\" in their environmental science textbook and \"the most subtle and dangerous threat to man's existence... the potential destruction, by man's own activities, of those ecological systems upon which the very existence of the human species depends\".\n\nThe term \"environmental services\" was introduced in a 1970 report of the \"Study of Critical Environmental Problems\", which listed services including insect pollination, fisheries, climate regulation and flood control. In following years, variations of the term were used, but eventually 'ecosystem services' became the standard in scientific literature.\n\nThe ecosystem services concept has continued to expand and includes socio-economic and conservation objectives, which are discussed below. A history of the concepts and terminology of ecosystem services as of 1997, can be found in Daily's book \"Nature's Services: Societal Dependence on Natural Ecosystems\".\n\nWhile Gretchen Daily's original definition distinguished between ecosystem goods and ecosystem services, Robert Costanza and colleagues' later work and that of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment lumped all of these together as ecosystem services.\n\nPer the 2006 Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA), ecosystem services are \"the benefits people obtain from ecosystems\". The MA also delineated the four categories of ecosystem services—supporting, provisioning, regulating and cultural—discussed below.\n\nBy 2010, there had evolved various working definitions and descriptions of ecosystem services in the literature. To prevent double counting in ecosystem services audits, for instance, The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) replaced \"Supporting Services\" in the MA with \"Habitat Services\" and \"ecosystem functions\", defined as \"a subset of the interactions between ecosystem structure and processes that underpin the capacity of an ecosystem to provide goods and services\".\n\nThe Millennium Ecosystem Assessment report 2005 defined ecosystem services as benefits people obtain from ecosystems and distinguishes four categories of ecosystem services, where the so-called supporting services are regarded as the basis for the services of the other three categories.\n\nThese include services such as nutrient cycling, primary production, soil formation, habitat provision and pollination. These services make it possible for the ecosystems to continue providing services such as food supply, flood regulation, and water purification. Slade et al outline the situation where a greater number of species would maximize more ecosystem services\n\nThe following services are also known as \"ecosystem goods\":\n\n\n\nAs of 2012, there was a discussion as to how the concept of cultural ecosystem services could be operationalized, how landscape aesthetics, cultural heritage, outdoor recreation, and spiritual significance to define can fit into the ecosystem services approach. who vote for models that explicitly link ecological structures and functions with cultural values and benefits.\nLikewise there has been a fundamental critique of the concept of cultural ecosystem services that builds on three arguments:\n\nThe Common International Classification of Ecosystem Services (CICES) is a classification scheme developed to accounting systems (like National counts etc.), in order to avoid double-counting of Suporting Services with others Provisioning and Regulating Services.\n\nThe following examples illustrate the relationships between humans and natural ecosystems through the services derived from them:\n\nUnderstanding of ecosystem services requires a strong foundation in ecology, which describes the underlying principles and interactions of organisms and the environment. Since the scales at which these entities interact can vary from microbes to landscapes, milliseconds to millions of years, one of the greatest remaining challenges is the descriptive characterization of energy and material flow between them. For example, the area of a forest floor, the detritus upon it, the microorganisms in the soil and characteristics of the soil itself will all contribute to the abilities of that forest for providing ecosystem services like carbon sequestration, water purification, and erosion prevention to other areas within the watershed. Note that it is often possible for multiple services to be bundled together and when benefits of targeted objectives are secured, there may also be ancillary benefits—the same forest may provide habitat for other organisms as well as human recreation, which are also ecosystem services.\n\nThe complexity of Earth's ecosystems poses a challenge for scientists as they try to understand how relationships are interwoven among organisms, processes and their surroundings. As it relates to human ecology, a suggested research agenda for the study of ecosystem services includes the following steps:\n\nRecently, a technique has been developed to improve and standardize the evaluation of ESP functionality by quantifying the relative importance of different species in terms of their efficiency and abundance. Such parameters provide indications of how species respond to changes in the environment (i.e. predators, resource availability, climate) and are useful for identifying species that are disproportionately important at providing ecosystem services. However, a critical drawback is that the technique does not account for the effects of interactions, which are often both complex and fundamental in maintaining an ecosystem and can involve species that are not readily detected as a priority. Even so, estimating the functional structure of an ecosystem and combining it with information about individual species traits can help us understand the resilience of an ecosystem amidst environmental change.\n\nMany ecologists also believe that the provision of ecosystem services can be stabilized with biodiversity. Increasing biodiversity also benefits the variety of ecosystem services available to society. Understanding the relationship between biodiversity and an ecosystem's stability is essential to the management of natural resources and their services.\n\nThe concept of ecological redundancy is sometimes referred to as \"functional compensation\" and assumes that more than one species performs a given role within an ecosystem. More specifically, it is characterized by a particular species increasing its efficiency at providing a service when conditions are stressed in order to maintain aggregate stability in the ecosystem. However, such increased dependence on a compensating species places additional stress on the ecosystem and often enhances its susceptibility to subsequent disturbance. The redundancy hypothesis can be summarized as \"species redundancy enhances ecosystem resilience\".\n\nAnother idea uses the analogy of rivets in an airplane wing to compare the exponential effect the loss of each species will have on the function of an ecosystem; this is sometimes referred to as \"rivet popping\". If only one species disappears, the loss of the ecosystem's efficiency as a whole is relatively small; however, if several species are lost, the system essentially collapses—similar to an airplane that lost too many rivets. The hypothesis assumes that species are relatively specialized in their roles and that their ability to compensate for one another is less than in the redundancy hypothesis. As a result, the loss of any species is critical to the performance of the ecosystem. The key difference is the rate at which the loss of species affects total ecosystem functioning.\n\nA third explanation, known as the \"portfolio effect\", compares biodiversity to stock holdings, where diversification minimizes the volatility of the investment, or in this case, the risk of instability of ecosystem services. This is related to the idea of \"response diversity\" where a suite of species will exhibit differential responses to a given environmental perturbation. When considered together, they create a stabilizing function that preserves the integrity of a service.\n\nSeveral experiments have tested these hypotheses in both the field and the lab. In ECOTRON, a laboratory in the UK where many of the biotic and abiotic factors of nature can be simulated, studies have focused on the effects of earthworms and symbiotic bacteria on plant roots. These laboratory experiments seem to favor the rivet hypothesis. However, a study on grasslands at Cedar Creek Reserve in Minnesota supports the redundancy hypothesis, as have many other field studies.\n\nThere are questions regarding the environmental and economic values of ecosystem services. Some people may be unaware of the environment in general and humanity's interrelatedness with the natural environment, which may cause misconceptions. Although environmental awareness is rapidly improving in our contemporary world, ecosystem capital and its flow are still poorly understood, threats continue to impose, and we suffer from the so-called 'tragedy of the commons'. Many efforts to inform decision-makers of current versus future costs and benefits now involve organizing and translating scientific knowledge to economics, which articulate the consequences of our choices in comparable units of impact on human well-being. An especially challenging aspect of this process is that interpreting ecological information collected from one spatial-temporal scale does not necessarily mean it can be applied at another; understanding the dynamics of ecological processes relative to ecosystem services is essential in aiding economic decisions. Weighting factors such as a service's irreplaceability or bundled services can also allocate economic value such that goal attainment becomes more efficient.\n\nThe economic valuation of ecosystem services also involves social communication and information, areas that remain particularly challenging and are the focus of many researchers. In general, the idea is that although individuals make decisions for any variety of reasons, trends reveal the aggregated preferences of a society, from which the economic value of services can be inferred and assigned. The six major methods for valuing ecosystem services in monetary terms are:\n\n\nA peer-reviewed study published in 1997 estimated the value of the world's ecosystem services and natural capital to be between US$16–54 trillion per year, with an average of US$33 trillion per year. However, Salles (2011) indicated 'The total value of biodiversity is infinite, so having debate about what is the total value of nature is actually pointless because we can't live without it'.\n\nAs of 2012, many companies were not fully aware of the extent of their dependence and impact on ecosystems and the possible ramifications. Likewise, environmental management systems and environmental due diligence tools are more suited to handle \"traditional\" issues of pollution and natural resource consumption. Most focus on environmental impacts, not dependence. Several tools and methodologies can help the private sector value and assess ecosystem services, including Our Ecosystem, the 2008 Corporate Ecosystem Services Review, Artificial Intelligence for Ecosystem Services (ARIES) from 2012, the Natural Value Initiative (2012) and InVEST (Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services & Tradeoffs, 2012) \n\nAlthough monetary pricing continues with respect to the valuation of ecosystem services, the challenges in policy implementation and management are significant and multitudinous. The administration of common pool resources has been a subject of extensive academic pursuit. From defining the problems to finding solutions that can be applied in practical and sustainable ways, there is much to overcome. Considering options must balance present and future human needs, and decision-makers must frequently work from valid but incomplete information. Existing legal policies are often considered insufficient since they typically pertain to human health-based standards that are mismatched with necessary means to protect ecosystem health and services. In 2000, to improve the information available, the implementation of an \"Ecosystem Services Framework\" has been suggested (ESF), which integrates the biophysical and socio-economic dimensions of protecting the environment and is designed to guide institutions through multidisciplinary information and jargon, helping to direct strategic choices.\n\nAs of 2005 Local to regional collective management efforts were considered appropriate for services like crop pollination or resources like water. Another approach that has become increasingly popular during teh 1990´s is the marketing of ecosystem services protection. Payment and trading of services is an emerging worldwide small-scale solution where one can acquire credits for activities such as sponsoring the protection of carbon sequestration sources or the restoration of ecosystem service providers. In some cases, banks for handling such credits have been established and conservation companies have even gone public on stock exchanges, defining an evermore parallel link with economic endeavors and opportunities for tying into social perceptions. However, crucial for implementation are clearly defined land rights, which are often lacking in many developing countries. In particular, many forest-rich developing countries suffering deforestation experience conflict between different forest stakeholders. In addition, concerns for such global transactions include inconsistent compensation for services or resources sacrificed elsewhere and misconceived warrants for irresponsible use. As of 2001, another approach focused on protecting ecosystem service biodiversity hotspots. Recognition that the conservation of many ecosystem services aligns with more traditional conservation goals (i.e. biodiversity) has led to the suggested merging of objectives for maximizing their mutual success. This may be particularly strategic when employing networks that permit the flow of services across landscapes, and might also facilitate securing the financial means to protect services through a diversification of investors.\n\nFor example, as of 2013 there had been interest in the valuation of ecosystem services provided by shellfish production and restoration. A keystone species, low in the food chain, bivalve shellfish such as oysters support a complex community of species by performing a number of functions essential to the diverse array of species that surround them. There is also increasing recognition that some shellfish species may impact or control many ecological processes; so much so that they are included on the list of \"ecosystem engineers\"—organisms that physically, biologically or chemically modify the environment around them in ways that influence the health of other organisms. Many of the ecological functions and processes performed or affected by shellfish contribute to human well-being by providing a stream of valuable ecosystem services over time by filtering out particulate materials and potentially mitigating water quality issues by controlling excess nutrients in the water.\nAs of 2018, the concept of ecosystem services had not been properly implemented into international and regional legislation yet. \n\nEcosystem-based adaptation or EbA is a strategy for community development and environmental management which seeks to use an ecosystem services framework to help communities adapt to the effects of climate change. The Convention on Biological Diversity defines it as \"the use of biodiversity and ecosystem services to help people adapt to the adverse effects of climate change\", which includes the use of \"sustainable management, conservation and restoration of ecosystems, as part of an overall adaptation strategy that takes into account the multiple social, economic and cultural co-benefits for local communities\".\n\nIn 2001, the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment announced that humanity's impact on the natural world was increasing to levels never before seen, and that the degradation of the planet's ecosystems would become a major barrier to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. In recognition of this fact, Ecosystem-Based Adaptation sought to use the restoration of ecosystems as a stepping-stone to improve the quality of life in communities experiencing the impacts of climate change. Specifically, it involved the restoration of such ecosystems that provide food and water and protection from storm surges and flooding. EbA interventions combine elements of both climate change mitigation and adaptation to global warming to help address the community's current and future needs.\n\nCollaborative planning between scientists, policy makers, and community members is an essential element of Ecosystem-Based Adaptation. By drawing on the expertise of outside experts and local residents alike, EbA seeks to develop unique solutions to unique problems, rather than simply replicating past projects.\n\nEcosystem services are defined as the gains acquired by humankind from surroundings ecosystems. Four different types of ecosystem services have been distinguished by the scientific body: regulating services, provisioning services, cultural services and supporting services. An ecosystem does not necessarily offer all four types of services simultaneously; but given the intricate nature of any ecosystem, it is usually assumed that humans benefit from a combination of these services. The services offered by diverse types of ecosystems (forests, seas, coral reefs, mangroves, etc.) differ in nature and in consequence. In fact, some services directly affect the livelihood of neighboring human populations (such as fresh water, food or aesthetic value, etc.) while other services affect general environmental conditions by which humans are indirectly impacted (such as climate change, erosion regulation or natural hazard regulation, etc.).\n\nEstuarine and coastal ecosystems are both marine ecosystems. An estuary is defined as the area in which a river meets the sea or the ocean. The waters surrounding this area are predominantly salty waters or brackish waters; and the incoming river water is dynamically motioned by the tide. An estuary strip may be covered by populations of reed (or similar plants) and/or sandbanks (or similar form or land).\n\nA coastal ecosystem occurs in areas where the sea or ocean waters meet the land.\n\nRegulating services are the \"benefits obtained from the regulation of ecosystem processes\". In the case of coastal and estuarine ecosystems, these services include climate regulation, waste treatment and disease control and natural hazard regulation.\n\nBoth the biotic and abiotic ensembles of marine ecosystems play a role in climate regulation. They act as sponges when it comes to gases in the atmosphere, retaining large levels of CO and other greenhouse gases (methane and nitrous oxide). Marine plants also use CO for photosynthesis purposes and help in reducing the atmospheric CO. The oceans and seas absorb the heat from the atmosphere and redistribute it through the means of water currents, and atmospheric processes, such as evaporation and the reflection of light allow for the cooling and warming of the overlying atmosphere. The ocean temperatures are thus imperative to the regulation of the atmospheric temperatures in any part of the world: \"without the ocean, the Earth would be unbearably hot during the daylight hours and frigidly cold, if not frozen, at night\".\n\nAnother service offered by marine ecosystem is the treatment of wastes, thus helping in the regulation of diseases. Wastes can be diluted and detoxified through transport across marine ecosystems; pollutants are removed from the environment and stored, buried or recycled in marine ecosystems: \"Marine ecosystems break down organic waste through microbial communities that filter water, reduce/limit the effects of eutrophication, and break down toxic hydrocarbons into their basic components such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen, phosphorus, and water\". The fact that waste is diluted with large volumes of water and moves with water currents leads to the regulation of diseases and the reduction of toxics in seafood.\n\nCoastal and estuarine ecosystems act as buffer zones against natural hazards and environmental disturbances, such as floods, cyclones, tidal surges and storms. The role they play is to \"[absorb] a portion of the impact and thus [lessen] its effect on the land\". Wetlands, for example, and the vegetation it supports – trees, root mats, etc. – retain large amounts of water (surface water, snowmelt, rain, groundwater) and then slowly releases them back, decreasing the likeliness of floods. Mangrove forests protect coastal shorelines from tidal erosion or erosion by currents; a process that was studied after the 1999 cyclone that hit India. Villages that were surrounded with mangrove forests encountered less damages than other villages that weren't protected by mangroves.\n\nProvisioning services consist of all \"the products obtained from ecosystems\". Marine ecosystems provide people with: wild & cultured seafood, fresh water, fiber & fuel and biochemical & genetic resources.\n\nHumans consume a large number of products originating from the seas, whether as a nutritious product or for use in other sectors: \"More than one billion people worldwide, or one-sixth of the global population, rely on fish as their main source of animal protein. In 2000, marine and coastal fisheries accounted for 12 per cent of world food production\". Fish and other edible marine products – primarily fish, shellfish, roe and seaweeds – constitute for populations living along the coast the main elements of the local cultural diets, norms and traditions. A very pertinent example would be sushi, the national food of Japan, which consists mostly of different types of fish and seaweed.\n\nWater bodies that are not highly concentrated in salts are referred to as 'fresh water' bodies. Fresh water may run through lakes, rivers and streams, to name a few; but it is most prominently found in the frozen state or as soil moisture or buried deep underground. Fresh water is not only important for the survival of humans, but also for the survival of all the existing species of animals, plants.\n\nMarine creatures provide us with the raw materials needed for the manufacturing of clothing, building materials (lime extracted from coral reefs), ornamental items and personal-use items (luffas, art and jewelry): \"The skin of marine mammals for clothing, gas deposits for energy production, lime (extracted from coral reefs) for building construction, and the timber of mangroves and coastal forests for shelter are some of the more familiar uses of marine organisms. Raw marine materials are utilized for non-essential goods as well, such as shells and corals in ornamental items\". Humans have also referred to processes within marine environments for the production of renewable energy: using the power of waves – or tidal power – as a source of energy for the powering of a turbine, for example. Oceans and seas are used as sites for offshore oil and gas installations, offshore wind farms.\n\nBiochemical resources are compounds extracted from marine organisms for use in medicines, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and other biochemical products. Genetic resources are the genetic information found in marine organisms that would later on be used for animal and plant breeding and for technological advances in the biological field. These resources are either directly taken out from an organism – such as fish oil as a source of omega3 –, or used as a model for innovative man-made products: \"such as the construction of fiber optics technology based on the properties of sponges. ... Compared to terrestrial products, marine-sourced products tend to be more highly bioactive, likely due to the fact that marine organisms have to retain their potency despite being diluted in the surrounding sea-water\".\n\nCultural services relate to the non-material world, as they benefit the benefit recreational, aesthetic, cognitive and spiritual activities, which are not easily quantifiable in monetary terms.\n\nMarine environments have been used by many as an inspiration for their works of art, music, architecture, traditions... Water environments are spiritually important as a lot of people view them as a means for rejuvenation and change of perspective. Many also consider the water as being a part of their personality, especially if they have lived near it since they were kids: they associate it to fond memories and past experiences. Living near water bodies for a long time results in a certain set of water activities that become a ritual in the lives of people and of the culture in the region.\n\nSea sports are very popular among coastal populations: surfing, snorkeling, whale watching, kayaking, recreational fishing...a lot of tourists also travel to resorts close to the sea or rivers or lakes to be able to experience these activities, and relax near the water. \n\nA lot can be learned from marine processes, environments and organisms – that could be implemented into our daily actions and into the scientific domain. Although much is still yet to still be known about the ocean world: \"by the extraordinary intricacy and complexity of the marine environment and how it is influenced by large spatial scales, time lags, and cumulative effects\".\n\nSupporting services are the services that allow for the other ecosystem services to be present. They have indirect impacts on humans that last over a long period of time. Several services can be considered as being both supporting services and regulating/cultural/provisioning services.\n\nNutrient cycling is the movement of nutrients through an ecosystem by biotic and abiotic processes. The ocean is a vast storage pool for these nutrients, such as carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus. The nutrients are absorbed by the basic organisms of the marine food web and are thus transferred from one organism to the other and from one ecosystem to the other. Nutrients are recycled through the life cycle of organisms as they die and decompose, releasing the nutrients into the neighboring environment. \"The service of nutrient cycling eventually impacts all other ecosystem services as all living things require a constant supply of nutrients to survive\".\n\nBiologically mediated habitats are defined as being the habitats that living marine structures offer to other organisms. These need not to have evolved for the sole purpose of serving as a habitat, but happen to become living quarters whilst growing naturally. For example, coral reefs and mangrove forests are home to numerous species of fish, seaweed and shellfish... The importance of these habitats is that they allow for interactions between different species, aiding the provisioning of marine goods and services. They are also very important for the growth at the early life stages of marine species (breeding and bursary spaces), as they serve as a food source and as a shelter from predators. \n\nPrimary production refers to the production of organic matter, i.e., chemically bound energy, through processes such as photosynthesis and chemosynthesis. The organic matter produced by primary producers forms the basis of all food webs. Further, it generates oxygen (O2), a molecule necessary to sustain animals and humans. On average, a human consumes about 550 liter of oxygen per day, whereas plants produce 1,5 liter of oxygen per 10 grams of growth.\n\nThe US military has funded research through the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, which claims that Department of Defense lands and military installations provide substantial ecosystem services to local communities, including benefits to carbon storage, resiliency to climate, and endangered species habitat. As of 2020, research from Duke University claims for example Eglin Air Force Base provides about $110 million in ecosystem services per year, $40 million more than if no base was present.\n\nEcosystem services decisions require making complex choices at the intersection of ecology, technology, society and the economy. The process of making ecosystem services decisions must consider the interaction of many types of information, honor all stakeholder viewpoints, including regulatory agencies, proposal proponents, decision makers, residents, NGOs, and measure the impacts on all four parts of the intersection. These decisions are usually spatial, always multi-objective, and based on uncertain data, models, and estimates. Often it is the combination of the best science combined with the stakeholder values, estimates and opinions that drive the process.\n\nOne analytical study modeled the stakeholders as agents to support water resource management decisions in the Middle Rio Grande basin of New Mexico. This study focused on modeling the stakeholder inputs across a spatial decision, but ignored uncertainty. Another study used Monte Carlo methods to exercise econometric models of landowner decisions in a study of the effects of land-use change. Here the stakeholder inputs were modeled as random effects to reflect the uncertainty. A third study used a Bayesian decision support system to both model the uncertainty in the scientific information Bayes Nets and to assist collecting and fusing the input from stakeholders. This study was about siting wave energy devices off the Oregon Coast, but presents a general method for managing uncertain spatial science and stakeholder information in a decision making environment. Remote sensing data and analyses can be used to assess the health and extent of land cover classes that provide ecosystem services, which aids in planning, management, monitoring of stakeholders' actions, and communication between stakeholders.\n\nIn Baltic countries scientists, nature conservationists and local authorities are implementing integrated planning approach for grassland ecosystems.. They are developing an integrated planning tool based on GIS (geographic information system) technology and put online that will help for planners to choose the best grassland management solution for concrete grassland. It will look holistically at the processes in the countryside and help to find best grassland management solutions by taking into account both natural and socioeconomic factors of the particular site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855358", "title": "Independent Patriotic Legion", "text": "Independent Patriotic Legion\n\nIndependent Patriotic Legion (in Spanish: \"Legión Patriótica Independiente\"), was a political party in Peru, founded in 1944, in order to launch the presidential campaign of Eloy G. Ureta.\n"}
{"id": "1855365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855365", "title": "Miglia Quadrato", "text": "Miglia Quadrato\n\nThe Miglia Quadrato is an annual car treasure hunt which takes place on the second or third weekend in May within the City of London (known as the 'Square Mile'). It is organised by the United Hospitals and University of London Motoring Club (UHULMC). The event has been running since 1957.\n\nThe event was originally conceived in 1957 in response to the fuel shortages from the Suez Crisis. This meant that traditional car rallying was less viable due to fuel shortages and so concentrating a competition in the City of London would reduce distances covered.\n\nIn the early 1990s the Ring of steel was introduced to the City of London. This added a degree of complexity to navigation of the event, as it resulted in a limited number of entry and exit points for areas bordering Liverpool Street Station.\n\nTeams of up to six people drive around the city for five hours trying to find the answers to sixty clues. A point is scored for each clue answer correctly recorded, and a point is lost for every minute the team is late at the end of the five hours. A reduced scale map based on the 1:10 000 scale Ordnance Survey Landplan map of the City is provided, along with a sheet of the sixty clues. Each clue is an eight digit Ordnance Survey grid reference (which defines a 10 m by 10 m area to search) and a quotation of some text or number that can be found at the location, with some parts missing, which need to be found and written down as the answer.\n\nThe hunt runs from midnight to 5am the following Sunday. With sixty clues to solve in five hours, there is an average of five minutes per clue, in which time the location must be plotted on the map, driven to, and the relevant text from the clue found. The clues can be visited in any order. There are 20 easy, 20 medium and 20 difficult clues.\n\nEngraved plaques are awarded to the highest scoring teams. In a typical year, the winning score is in the mid-fifties, though in 2019 it was as low as 41 and in 2018 a clean sheet of 60 was achieved for the first time. Ties are separated by team size (smallest wins) and then by relative scores for the difficult and medium clues respectively.\n\nThe City has a small resident population, most of whom live in the Barbican, which has strictly separated pedestrian and vehicle circulation. The hunt avoids the Barbican and the hospitals to avoid disturbing residents. The event's finishing point is normally Finsbury Circus.\n\nThere is a sister event called the Londinium Pedo, which is a three-hour event taking place on foot in September or October. Both events are run by the United Hospitals and University of London Motoring Club (UHULMC).\n\nIn 2001, the event was cancelled in recognition of the need to reduce population movement due to an outbreak of foot and mouth disease. The 2012 event was cancelled due to the difficulty of travel in London resulting from preparations for the 2012 Olympic Games. In 2020, the event was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855367", "title": "Kaizuka, Osaka", "text": "Kaizuka, Osaka\n\nAs of October 2016, the city has an estimated population of 88,345 and a population density of 2,000 persons per km². The total area is 43.99 km². The city is promoting volleyball because it used to be the home of called led by .\n\nLocated in the southern part of Izumi Region in Osaka Prefecture. \nThe Kogi River flows from east to west, the Tsuda River forms the line between this city and Kishiwada City, and the Mide River is a city boundary with Izumisano City. \nNankai Main Line and Hanwa Line run from south to north, and the Mizuma Railway runs from east to west. Mount Izumi Katsuragi is partly in Kaizuka territory.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855373", "title": "Mythili Kumar", "text": "Mythili Kumar\n\nMythili Kumar is a dancer, teacher, and choreographer. She performs the Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi, and Odissi styles of Indian classical dance. Founder of Abhinaya Dance Company of San Jose and she is a lecturer in dance at University of California, Santa Cruz.\n\nAs founder and Director of Abhinaya Dance Company of San Jose since 1980, she has trained and presented over one hundred dancers in their solo debuts and has collaborated extensively with several multi-cultural organizations. She has also taught classes at San Jose State University and Stanford University.\n\nKumar's two daughter's, Rasika and Malavika are active in the dance company and have been trained in classical Indian dance since age 4.\n\nCollaborative performances include:\n\n\nIn 2010 she was awarded the Malonga Casquelourd Lifetime Achievement Award by San Francisco Ethnic Dance Festival. Kumar received the choreographer's fellowships from 1989 until 1993 and a teacher's recognition certificate in 1998 from the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855376", "title": "National Democratic Front (Peru)", "text": "National Democratic Front (Peru)\n\nNational Democratic Front (in Spanish: \"Frente Democrático Nacional\") was a political party in Peru that was founded in 1945 in Arequipa by Manuel J. Bustamante de la Fuente. Future president Fernando Belaúnde Terry was also present during the party's foundation. The party later formed an alliance with APRA and the Peruvian Communist Party, an alliance which led to the triumph of Dr. José Luis Bustamante y Rivero becoming president the same year.\n"}
{"id": "1855379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855379", "title": "John Berkey", "text": "John Berkey\n\nJohn Berkey (August 13, 1932 – April 29, 2008) was an American artist known for his space- and science fiction-themed works. Some of Berkey's best-known work includes much of the original poster art for the \"Star Wars\" trilogy, the poster for the 1976 remake of \"King Kong\" and also the \"Old Elvis Stamp\".\n\nBerkey produced a large body of space fantasy artwork, producing utopian scenes of bubble-shaped, yacht-like spaceships. His distinctive painterly style has been evaluated as \"at once realistic, yet impressionistic and abstract\", and his space craft designs as being \"distinctly elegant, yet clearly technological and unmistakably Berkian; more inspired by luxury yachts and manta rays than NASA\". He has been described as \"one of the giants in the history of science fiction art\".\n\nJohn Berkey was born in Edgeley, North Dakota in 1932. Berkey's early childhood was spent in Aberdeen, South Dakota. When he was aged six, he and his family moved to St. Joseph, Montana and then to Excelsior, Minnesota. In 1950, Berkey graduated from high school and went on to study at the Minneapolis School of Art. He resided in Shorewood, Minnesota.\n\nBerkey worked as a freelance artist from the 1960s, after an eight-year stint at Brown & Bigelow, a St. Paul, Minnesota advertising agency. There, he produced up to seventy calendar paintings a year, which featured historical scenes of the American pioneers, road and railway construction, agricultural and industrial scenes.\n\nAmong other commissions, Berkey regularly produced artwork for magazines such as \"Popular Mechanics\", \"Omni\", \"Science Fiction Age\", \"Discover\", \"National Geographic\", \"TV Guide\" and \"The Plain Truth\".\n\nBerkey made his mark in science fiction publishing with his cover art for Ballantine Books' 1972 reprint of the \"STAR Science Fiction\" series. Following this success, he went on to design a large number of book covers including works by Isaac Asimov, Ben Bova, Philip K. Dick, Robert Heinlein, Glen Cook and many more. For the 1972 edition of Asimov's novel, \"The Caves of Steel\", Berkey's cover art featured a self-portrait with his arm showing exposed cybernetic mechanics.\n\nIn the 1960s, Berkey was commissioned by NASA to produce artworks depicting the Apollo space program and other missions, as part of the NASA Art Program. He continued to paint space exploration subjects, including Skylab and the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.\n\nBerkey declined an invitation from Stanley Kubrick to work on the 1968 film \"\". In 1974, Berkey was commissioned to render the key art for \"The Towering Inferno\", which became the largest grossing film of 1974. This established Berkey's reputation and he went on to produce poster artwork for a number of other blockbuster films including the 1976 remake of \"King Kong\", \"Orca the Killer Whale\" (1977), \"Meteor\" (1979), \"Black Stallion\" (1979), \"Superman III\" (1983), and \"Dune\" (European release, 1984). He also produced promotional artwork for \"\" (1979).\n\nIn 1975, the young filmmaker George Lucas purchased several pieces of Berkey's science fiction artwork. The paintings served as visual reference material while Lucas was trying to pitch his ideas to film studios for a new space fantasy film, \"The Star Wars\". Among the paintings was one of a rocket-plane diving down through space towards a gigantic mechanical planet (the image had been used as cover art for the 1972 reprint of the short story anthology \"Star Science Fiction Stories No.4\"). It is thought that this painting in particular had a strong influence on the production design of \"Star Wars\" and served to inspire the film's leading concept artist, Ralph McQuarrie, and the model maker Colin Cantwell, whose early designs for the Death Star battle station bore a strong similarity to Berkey's painting. A number of other \"Star Wars\" spacecraft, such as Star Destroyers, may also have been influenced by Berkey's designs of naval-style ships with smooth hulls and conning towers bristling with antennae.\n\nBerkey was commissioned by Lucasfilm and 20th Century Fox in 1976 to provide some of the first poster art for \"Star Wars\". Among this work was a painting which depicted the character Luke Skywalker brandishing a lightsaber, flanked by Princess Leia Organa the robots C-3PO and R2-D2, and a number of Imperial stormtroopers; in the background is a large figure of Darth Vader looming behind them, a similar composition to the theatrical poster artwork for \"Star Wars\" by Tom Jung and the Brothers Hildebrandt. When the novelization of the film was published, \"\", the United Kingdom edition published by Sphere Books featured cover art by Berkey (Ballantine Books' US edition originally featured a cover by Ralph McQuarrie).\n\nAnother of Berkey's original paintings for \"Star Wars\" was a poster depicting the final battle over the Death Star from the final scenes of the film. Berkey reportedly never saw \"Star Wars\", and this is evidenced in the fact that he illustrated multiple Millennium Falcon spaceships (in the film there is only one). Berkey said of the poster in an interview, \"It was the first time that I was asked to paint fictional space crafts not of my own design\". The painting was issued as a souvenir poster that was included in the first release of the \"Star Wars\" Original Motion Picture Soundtrack by 20th Century Records.\n\nBerkey's involvement in \"Star Wars\" was brought to an end after a conflict of interest with his work for rival film studio Universal on the 1978 TV series \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nBerkey revisited the \"Star Wars\" universe in 1983 when he was commissioned to provide the cover artwork for the Atari video game, \"\".\n\nIn 1992, the US Postal Service held a public vote on the design of a new commemorative stamp which was to feature Elvis Presley. Two designs were shortlisted: a younger Elvis by Mark Stutzman, and an older Elvis by John Berkey. Stutzman's \"Young Elvis\" won the competition with over 75% of the votes. Berkey nevertheless went on to design 15 other postage stamps, including the 1991 Christmas stamp featuring an illustration of Santa Claus.\n\nIn 1999, John Berkey received the Spectrum Award for Grand Master.\n\nIn 2004 he was elected to the Society of Illustrators' Hall of Fame. On March 22, 2007, Excelsior, Minnesota honored him with \"John Berkey Day.\"\n\nJohn Berkey was Artist Guest of Honor at Minicon 35 in 2000.\n\nBerkey died of heart failure on April 28, 2008 at his home in Excelsior, Minnesota.\n\nMany of his original paintings are periodically on display at ArtOrg in Northfield, Minnesota.\n\nIn his lifetime, Berkey influenced a number of artists, especially science fiction artists, among them James Gurney, Drew Struzan, Vincent Di Fate, Stephen Youll, John Picacio, Brandon Peterson and Michael Kaluta. Artist Corrie Erickson studied under Berkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855395", "title": "Kula Plate", "text": "Kula Plate\n\nThe Kula Plate was an oceanic tectonic plate under the northern Pacific Ocean south of the Near Islands segment of the Aleutian Islands. It has been subducted under the North American Plate at the Aleutian Trench, being replaced by the Pacific Plate.\n\nThe name \"Kula\" is from a Tlingit language word meaning \"all gone\". As the name suggests, the Kula Plate was entirely subducted around 48 Ma and today only a slab in the mantle under the Bering Sea remains.\n\nThe Kula Plate began subducting under the Pacific Northwest region of North America during the Late Cretaceous period much like the Pacific Plate does, supporting a large volcanic arc system from northern Washington to southwestern Yukon called the Coast Range Arc.\n\nThere was a triple junction of three ridges between the Kula Plate to the north, the Pacific Plate to the west and the Farallon Plate to the east. The Kula Plate was subducted under the North American Plate at a relatively steep angle, so that the Canadian Rockies are primarily composed of thrusted sedimentary sheets with relatively little contribution of continental uplift, while the American Rockies are characterized by significant continental uplift in response to the shallow subduction of the Farallon Plate.\n\nAbout 55 million years ago, the Kula Plate began an even more northerly motion. Riding on the Kula Plate was the Pacific Rim Terrane consisting of volcanic and sedimentary rocks. It was scraped off and plastered against the continental margin, forming what is today Vancouver Island.\n\nBy 40 million years ago, the compressional force of the Kula Plate ceased. The existence of the Kula Plate was inferred from the westward bend in the alternating pattern of magnetic anomalies in the Pacific Plate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855404", "title": "The Uncounted Enemy", "text": "The Uncounted Enemy\n\nThe Uncounted Enemy: A Vietnam Deception was a controversial television documentary aired as part of the \"CBS Reports\" series on January 23, 1982. The 90-minute program, produced by George Crile III and narrated by Mike Wallace, asserted that in 1967 intelligence officers under General William Westmoreland, the commander of Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MAC-V), had manipulated intelligence estimates in order to show far fewer communist personnel in South Vietnam than there actually were, thereby creating the impression that the Vietnam War was being won.\n\nIn response, Westmoreland publicly rebuked these claims and demanded 45 minutes of open airtime to rebut them. CBS refused the request, so Westmoreland sued Crile, Wallace, and CBS for libel on September 13. A conservative public-interest law firm, Capital Legal Foundation, brought the suit on Westmoreland's behalf, and its president, Dan Burt, served as Westmoreland's \"pro bono\" attorney. The suit was funded by grants from several conservative organizations, such as the Richard Mellon Scaife Foundation, the John M. Olin Foundation, and the Smith Richardson Foundation whose goals were to kill \"CBS Reports\" and turn back the 1964 \"New York Times v. Sullivan\" rule, which required that public officials or figures prove actual malice to win a libel suit against the press.\n\nThe case went to trial two years later. The trial, \"Westmoreland v. CBS\", was approaching its end in 1985 when Westmoreland suddenly dropped his lawsuit, citing a statement by CBS that Westmoreland interpreted as an apology. CBS did not retract anything that had been said in the broadcast, but stated that it had “never intended to assert, and does not believe, that General Westmoreland was unpatriotic or disloyal in performing his duties as he saw them.” CBS subsequently lost its libel insurance over the case. Additionally, serious, in-depth documentaries became produced far less frequently on CBS and the other two major networks of the time than had been the case during the 1960s and 1970s, a development that perhaps coincides with less aggressive investigative reporting on television on all news programs generally since the time of the suit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855406", "title": "Socialist Vanguard Party", "text": "Socialist Vanguard Party\n\nSocialist Vanguard Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Vanguardia Socialista\") was a front created by the Peruvian Communist Party in order to facilitate its legal registration in 1945.\n"}
{"id": "1855421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855421", "title": "Vologda Aviation Enterprise", "text": "Vologda Aviation Enterprise\n\nJoint-Stock Company \"Vologda Aviation Enterprise\", doing business as Vologda Air Company (VAC, Вологодское авиапредприятие, \"Vologodskoje aviapredprijatije\"), is an airline with its head office on the property of Vologda Airport in Vologda, Russia. It operates scheduled domestic and regional passenger services. It was formerly the Aeroflot Vologda division, United Air Detachment of Northern Territorial Board of Civil Aviation (1952–1963), Vologda United Air Detachment (1963–1991) and Vologda Air Company (1991–present).\n\nThe airline also has branches located on the properties of the airports serving Belozersk, Kichmengsky Gorodok, Nikolsk, Nyuksenitsa, Totma, Veliky Ustyug, and Vytegra. These branches are not legal divisions of the company.\n\nAt any one time they have an average of 1500 staff working there.\n\nOn 1 September 1931 there was the first flight through the new air-strip at Vologda – Moscow-Yaroslavl-Vologda-Archangelsk. \n\nIn 1934, three SH-2 aircraft were now based there, flying to Kirilov, Vashki, Belozersk, and Sholu and landing on lakes. \n\nIn 1937, some PO-2 aircraft were transferred to the airline at Vologda and in that year they carried 3055 passengers, 40 tons cargo and 94 tons mail.\n\nIn March 1941, the Cherepovets Air Detachment was transferred to Vologda. Before long, they had 25 planes including Po-2, S-1, and Yak-6. \n\nBy 1948 the airline had 20 Po-2 planes and in five years they received their first An-2, two years after that a Yak-12, three years after that they received their first Mil helicopter (a Mil Mi-1). \n\nTo make best use of their new manmade landing strips, they received their Yak-40 aircraft in 1969 which spurred development. In 1978 they moved to a new airfield.\n\nThe airline carries out scheduled and charter passenger and emergency services, aerial thermal imaging and photography, search-and-rescue and aerial patrol flights\n\nThe airline operates scheduled flights on its Yakovlev Yak-40 aircraft between Vologda and\n\nAs of July 2019 the Vologda Air fleet includes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855425", "title": "Christian Social Party of Peru", "text": "Christian Social Party of Peru\n\nChristian Social Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Social Cristiano del Perú\") was a political party in Peru founded in 1946. Víctor Cárcamo was the president of the organizing committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855431", "title": "Takelma", "text": "Takelma\n\nThe Takelma (also Dagelma) are a Native American people who originally lived in the Rogue Valley of interior southwestern Oregon.\n\nMost of their villages were sited along the Rogue River. The name \"Takelma\" means \"(Those) Along the River\".\n\nMuch less is known about the lifeways of the Takelma Indians than about their neighbors in other parts of Oregon and northern California. Their homeland was settled by Euroamericans late in the history of the American Frontier, because the surrounding mountainous country protected it. But once colonization began, it proceeded rapidly. The discovery of gold spurred the first white settlement of the region in 1852. The Takelma who survived were sent to reservations in 1856. Settlers and natives lived in the region together for less than four years.\n\nBecause Takelma territory included the most agriculturally attractive part of the Rogue Valley, particularly along the Rogue River itself, their valuable land was preferentially seized and settled by Euroamerican invaders in the mid-19th century. Almost without exception, these newcomers had little or no interest in learning about their indigenous neighbors, and they considered them a dangerous nuisance. They recorded little about the Takelma, beyond documenting their own perspective on conflicts. Native Americans living near the Takelma but on more marginal and rugged land, such as the Shastan and Rogue River Athabascan peoples, survived the colonization period with their cultures and languages more intact.\n\nConflicts between the settlers and the indigenous peoples of both coastal and interior southwest Oregon escalated and became known as the Rogue River Wars. Nathan Douthit examined peaceful encounters between the whites and southern Oregon Indians, encounters he describes as \"middle-ground\" interactions, undertaken by \"cultural intermediaries.\" Douthit argues that without such \"middle-ground\" contact, the Takelma and other southern Oregon Indians would have been exterminated rather than relocated.\n\nIn 1856, the U.S. government forcibly relocated the Takelma who survived the Rogue Indian Wars to the Coast Indian Reservation (today the Siletz Reservation) on the rainy northern Oregon coast, an environment much different from the dry oak and chaparral country that they knew. Many died on the way to the Siletz Reservation and the Grand Ronde Indian Reservation, which now exists as Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon. And many died on the reservations from disease, despair and inadequate diet. Indian agents taught the surviving Takelma farming skills and discouraged them from speaking their own language, believing that their best chance for productive lives depended on their learning useful skills and the English language. On the reservations, the Takelma lived with Native Americans from different cultures; and their intermarriage with people of other cultures, both on and off the reservation, worked against the transmission of Takelman language and culture to Takelman descendants.\n\nThe Takelma spent many years in exile before anthropologists began to interview them and record information about their language and lifeways. Linguists Edward Sapir and John Peabody Harrington worked with Takelma descendants.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Agnes Baker Pilgrim, granddaughter of Takelma chief George Harney, emerged as the most significant spokesperson for the Takelma.\n\n\"In 1994, on the banks of the Applegate, the Takelma people performed a Sacred Salmon Ceremony for the first time in a century and a half ... Another endeavor, the Takelma Intertribal Project, starting in 2000, has worked to restore edible, medicinal, and basketry plants through traditional techniques of burning and pruning.\"\n\nIn the 2010 census, 16 people claimed Takelma ancestry, 5 of them full-blooded.\n\nThe Takelman people lived as foragers, a term that many anthropologists consider more exact than hunter-gatherers. They collected plant foods and insects, fished and hunted. The Takelma cultivated only one crop, a native tobacco (\"Nicotiana biglovii\"). The Takelma lived in small bands of related men and their families. Interior southwest Oregon has pronounced seasons, and the ancient Takelma adapted to these seasons by spending spring, summer, and early fall months collecting and storing food for the winter season. The Rogue River, around which their villages nucleated, provided them with salmon and other fish. Ancient salmon runs were reputedly large. The intensive and coordinated labor involved in large-scale capture of salmon with nets and spears by men, and their cleaning and drying by women, provided the Takelma with an excellent, protein-rich diet for much of the year, if the salmon runs were good. The salmon diet was supplemented, or replaced in years of poor salmon runs, by game such as deer, elk, beaver, bear, antelope, and bighorn sheep. (The last two species are now locally extinct.) Smaller mammals, such as squirrels, rabbits and gophers, might be snared by either men or women. Yellowjacket larvae and grasshoppers also provided calories.\n\nThe limiting factor in the Takelma diet was carbohydrates, since fish and game provided abundant fat and protein. To get the carbohydrates and vitamins needed for good health, the Takelma collected a variety of plant foods. However, consistent with optimal foraging theory, which suggests that humans, like other creatures, decide what foods to eat depending on what gives the greatest nutritional value for the work expended to get it, the Takelma strategically focused on two plant foods: acorns and camas, also known as camassia. They harvested acorns from the two species of oaks in their Rogue Valley territory, Oregon white oak and California black oak. When these foods were not available, or for variety in their diet, Takelma women also gathered and processed the seeds of native grasses and tarweed (\"Madia elegans\"), dug roots and collected small fruits.\n\nDuring the winter months, the Takelma lived in semi-subterranean homes dug partly into the insulating earth with superstructures built of vertically placed sugar pine planks. Poorer people also lived in pole-and-bark dwellings, well banked with earth and dry leaves for insulation. Typically the planks rested on two 6-foot-tall vertical shafts that supported a horizontal central pole. Beds of cat-tail mats were placed adjacent to the fire pit, with openings in the roof to allow for ventilation. Takelma homes bore structural similarities to the semi-subterranean homes of the Klamath and Modoc peoples to the east, who spoke languages in the Plateau Penutian family, and to those of the Shasta to the south, who spoke various Shastan languages (which may be part of the hypothetical Hokan family). One historical account describes a rectangular, plank structure large enough to hold 100 people, but archaeologists in the region have typically found remains of much smaller dwellings. During the warmer months of summer Takelma lived in residences made of brush or forwent them altogether.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855432", "title": "Greetings (1968 film)", "text": "Greetings (1968 film)\n\nGreetings is a 1968 film directed by Brian De Palma. A satirical film about men avoiding the Vietnam War draft, it features a young Robert De Niro in his first major role.\n\nIt was the first film to receive an X rating by the MPAA, although it was later given an R rating.\n\nDe Niro reprised the character of Jon Rubin in the 1970 film \"Hi, Mom!\" also directed by De Palma. The film was entered into the 19th Berlin International Film Festival, where it won a Silver Bear award.\n\n\nHoward Thompson of \"The New York Times\" wrote \"Some of it is amusing, as when one of the lads is coached in the technique of draft-dodging. Most of it is strained and unfunny, with some generous nudity for nudity's sake and a hip sprinkling of four-letter words.\" \"Variety\" wrote that the film \"has its sluggish sequences\" but \"[m]uch of the production has a freshness that is infectious.\"|Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"the funniest film since 'The Producers'—and stylistically its superior. It has the fresh and uninhibited wit of the best of the student films yet has the grace and control to sustain itself throughout its 88 minutes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855435", "title": "Pata (sword)", "text": "Pata (sword)\n\nThe pata or patta (Marathi:दांडपट्टा, ) is a sword, originating from the Indian subcontinent, with a gauntlet integrated as a handguard. Often referred to in its native Marathi as a dandpatta, it is commonly called a gauntlet-sword in English.\n\nThe pata has a long straight blade ranging in length from 10 to 44 inches. The blades were sometimes locally made and other times recycled from older European swords imported through colonial trade. In the case of European blades, broadswords were most common, though rapier blades were occasionally employed. \n\nThe characteristic feature of the pata is its hilt which takes the form of a half-gauntlet, the inside of which is usually padded. The hilt is attached to the blade by decorative arms that extend forward on both sides of the blade. \n\nThe Mughals developed a variation with matchlock pistols adjoining the handle. The hilt also has a long cuff which is usually decorated and in older examples inlaid and embellished with gold and silver. The swordsman holds the weapon by gripping a crossbar inside the gauntlet. The cuff is held close to the forearm by another bar or chain.\n\nCreated during the Mughal period, the pata's use in warfare appears to be mostly restricted to the 17th and 18th century when the Maratha empire came into prominence. It was considered to be a highly effective weapon for infantrymen against heavily armoured cavalry. The Maratha ruler Shivaji and his general Baji Prabhu Deshpande were reputedly trained in the use of the pata. When Mughal Afzal Khan's bodyguard Bada Sayyad attacked Shivaji with swords in the Battle of Pratapgad, Shivaji's bodyguard Jiva Mahala fatally struck him down, cutting off one of Bada Sayyad's hands with a pata.\n\nThe pata is most commonly paired with either a shield or another pata, though it can also be used with a javelin, axe, or belt. The restrictive handle was particularly suited to the stiff-wristed style of South Asian swordsmanship. Despite its shape, the pata is used primarily for cutting rather than thrusting. The extended grip provided by the forearm permitted powerful slashes but restricted any thrusts. This can be seen in mardani khel today and in colonial descriptions which describe spinning techniques with dual pata \"much like a windmill\". \n\nMiniature paintings show that the pata was also wielded by mounted cavalry, which has led some modern collectors to erroneously conclude that the weapon was used for thrusting from horseback. However, the restriction on wrist movement would have made it difficult to dislodge the pata from an opponent's body, and doing so while mounted would most likely cause the swordsmen to fall off their horses. Rather, it is more probable that the pata was used in cut-and-run tactics, characteristic of the Maratha army. Cutting technique was practiced by slicing fruit on the ground like lemons or limes without touching the ground. This was and still is a common method of demonstration, often using a flexible blade to facilitate the trick. It is said that Maratha warriors would use the pata when encircled before they fell, so as to maximize the casualties on the opposition. It was to be effective when two soldiers fought together as pairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855437", "title": "Revolutionary Workers' Party (Peru)", "text": "Revolutionary Workers' Party (Peru)\n\nThe Revolutionary Workers Party, \"Partido Obrero Revolucionario\" \"(POR)\", was the first Trotskyist political party in Peru. Originally known as the Marxist Workers Group, it changed its name in 1946. Early leaders included Francisco Zevallos, Leoncio Bueno and Francisco Abril de Vivero.\n\nIn 1952, Manuel A. Odría jailed or exiled the leadership of the group, which remained largely inactive until he stepped down in 1956. Two rival parties of the same were constituted. One was led by Ismael Frías and affiliated to the International Secretariat of the Fourth International (ISFI); the other led by Félix Zevallos and affiliated to the International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI). It was this second group that Hugo Blanco joined in 1958, to organise activities under the co-ordination of Nahuel Moreno. In the role, he held a peasant uprising in La Convención in 1962, for which he was jailed and then exiled.\n\nThe ISFI and Moreno's supporters in the ICFI reunited in 1963, and it appears that the two Revolutionary Labour Parties reunited at this point, to form the Revolutionary Left Front.\n\nIt used to be a member of the Fourth International Posadist.\n"}
{"id": "1855439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855439", "title": "Transeuropean Airlines", "text": "Transeuropean Airlines\n\nTranseuropean Airlines () was a charter airline based in Russia.\nIt operated charter flights between Moscow and popular holiday destinations, mostly Barcelona and Antalya. Its main base was at Sheremetyevo Airport.\nTranseuropean Airlines fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n"}
{"id": "1855441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855441", "title": "Renault 14", "text": "Renault 14\n\nThe Renault 14 is a compact car produced by the French manufacturer Renault between 1976 and 1983. It was first shown in January 1976 with production beginning in June of that year.\n\nIt was the first car to be produced in large volumes at the company's then new plant at Douai, although small pilot runs of the Renault 5 had preceded the 14's production in the factory.\n\nFeaturing front wheel drive, the 14 was developed to compete in the small family hatchback sector, which had been popularized by the launch of the Volkswagen Golf in 1974. Initially, the 14 was available in L and TL trim levels with a 1.2 L single overhead camshaft engine and later 1.4 L versions with (R14 GTL) or (R14 TS) joined the line-up. Both units were the X-type engine (commonly known as the \"Douvrin\" or \"Suitcase Engine\") jointly developed with Peugeot, although the 14 turned to be the only Renault vehicle that used the unit. The design was generally well thought out and practical with interior space a major selling point, including a rear seat that could either be folded or removed completely. In addition, the spare wheel was carried at the front, under the bonnet and above the transverse 4-cylinder engine that was inclined backwards by 72°. Although all Renault cars were by now front wheel drive, the 14 was the first of the manufacturer's models to incorporate a space saving Mini-like transversely mounted engine. The exterior styling of the Renault 14 was praised by the motoring press as being fresh and ahead of its time and many have drawn a parallel between it and the later Peugeot 205 and even the Peugeot 306. On the other hand, the R14 lines seemed like a development on the theme of a late 1960s prototype by East German brand Wartburg, called Wartburg 355 (itself seemingly influenced by Renault's own Renault 16).\nThe 14 shared with several previous Renault models a rear suspension system using two full-width torsion bars positioned one behind the other, along with the resulting wheelbase difference of more than 1 inch (32 mm) between the left and right sides of the car.\n\nFor 1979 Renault sought to compensate for a slow start in the marketplace, widening the range upmarket with a \"GTL\" version of the car, taking its wheels and some other ornaments and interior styling cues from the newly launched Renault 18, and a \"TS\" with twin chamber carburetor and claimed power increase from to . The TS model also included halogen headlamps and electric windows in the front, the latter being a first for this class of car in the French market.\n\nThe Renault 14 may have been one of the first front-wheel drive hatchbacks of its size to be produced in Europe, but within four years of its launch it was facing fierce competition from a growing number of similar products from rival manufacturers, particularly the Ford Escort MK3, Opel Kadett (Vauxhall Astra in the UK), Fiat Ritmo/Strada and Talbot Horizon. It was joined in the Renault range by the award-winning Renault 9 in 1981, the car which spawned the Renault 14's direct successor (the Renault 11) two years later.\n\nSales of the 14 were hampered by an advertising campaign that compared it to the shape of a pear. A preview at the Pompidou Centre in Paris as a bare bodyshell also did little to win customers. The car would later gain a reputation for premature body corrosion, which resulted in the 14 being dubbed the \"rotten pear\" by the motoring press. In France, \"\"La poire\"\"' (literally \"the pear\", but also slang for \"gullible\") still refers to the 14. However, the best-selling Renault 5 also had a reputation for premature body corrosion, but the stronger advertising of the R5 helped boost its sales and resulted in it being a sales hit.\n\nThe car also had a reputation for being difficult to start in damp conditions. The placement of the temperature gauge on the transmission tunnel behind the gear-lever, rather than on the instrument panel where it was directly in the driver's field of view, led to incidents of engine damage if the engine overheated and the driver failed to notice.\n\nFor 1980, Renault attempted to improve sales by relaunching the car with improved equipment levels and a minor facelift that included, most obviously from the outside, repositioned front indicators and reworked front fenders. This proved insufficient, and production ended in 1983 with precisely 993,193 units sold over a period of just under seven years. Initial production was 325 cars per day, which had been scheduled to increase to 700 in 1977 and to nearly 1,000 in 1978. This never materialised, as sales peaked very early in the R14's life. Sales in the domestic French market did improve somewhat with the redesign. The R14 is now a rare sight on the roads of Europe, even in its native France where they tended to last longer due to easy parts availability through the extensive dealer network. Many Renault 14s were used by the French police in the 1980s.\n\nIts joint successors, the 9 and 11 appeared in 1981 and early 1983, respectively. The front end of the pre-facelift Renault 9 looked similar to the front end of the post-facelift Renault 14. However, both the Renault 9 and 11 had more conservative exterior body styling. Nevertheless, Peugeot used more than a few styling cues from the Renault 14 when designing its Peugeot 306, launched some 10 years after the cancellation of the R14. \n\nAs of 2018, just 9 Renault 14s remained taxed and on the roads in the UK.\n\n(*) \"These names have never been used, it is an extrapolation of these engines on the new Renault engine designation system.\"\n\nIn the beginning, Renault and Peugeot used the same motor types (Française de Mécanique designations), in the 1980s, each used its own designations.\n\nThe \"X engine\" type X5J (1360 cm3) of the Renault 14 GTL (from 1982) is the only one to benefit from the new Renault designations. The designation of the engines is organized in 3 characters: a letter, a number, a letter (Example: C1J, X5J, F2N ...).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855444", "title": "Independent Civic Movement", "text": "Independent Civic Movement\n\nIndependent Civic Movement (in Spanish: \"Movimiento Cívico Independiente\") was a political party in Peru. Its founders included edro Beltrán, Javier Ortiz de Zevallos and Pedro Roselló.\n"}
{"id": "1855447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855447", "title": "Edward F. Cox", "text": "Edward F. Cox\n\nEdward Ridley Finch Cox (born October 2, 1946) is an American corporate and finance lawyer and the former chairman of the New York Republican State Committee. He is the son-in-law of President Richard M. Nixon and First Lady Pat Nixon.\n\nCox was born to Howard Ellis Cox and Anne Crane Delafield (Finch) Cox in Southampton Hospital in Southampton, New York. He attended Westhampton Beach Elementary School and Allen Stevenson School in New York City. Cox is named for his grandfather, Judge Edward R. Finch, a prominent New York jurist who served as a Justice of the New York State Supreme Court (1915–43), Presiding Justice of the New York Supreme Court Appellate Division, First Department, and Associate Judge on the New York Court of Appeals. His father, Howard Ellis Cox, was a decorated World War II aviator, New York lawyer, and Long Island real estate developer.\n\nCox graduated from the Princeton University Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs (1968) and Harvard Law School (1972). Cox was battalion commander of his Army ROTC unit at Princeton where he put together and accredited a seminar on war,he completed officer and airborne training at Fort Benning, Georgia and subsequently served as a reserve officer with the 11th Special Forces Group.\n\nIn 1971, Cox married Tricia Nixon, the daughter of President Richard Nixon, in a White House Rose Garden ceremony. The wedding was described in \"Life Magazine\" as \"a union 'akin to American royalty'\". Edward and Tricia Cox have a son, Christopher Nixon Cox. The Coxes reside on Long Island, New York.\n\nCox started his legal career at Cravath Swaine & Moore, and after serving as a general counsel in the Reagan Administration, was a corporate partner in the Donovan Leisure firm and subsequently a member of the management committee and the chairman of the corporate department at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP. \nHis law practice has covered a wide variety of transactions and representations including securities litigations, project financings, M&A, startups, IPOs, municipal financings, securitizations, private placements and bankruptcies. \n\nHe is a member of a Bank of America advisory committee.\n\nCox served as a director for 35 years of Noble Energy which is an upstream independent oil and natural gas company.\n\nTo attempt to stay in shape, Cox participates in an Olympic triathlon each year, and he swims, bikes and runs whenever possible in preparation. He ran and finished the New York City Marathon in 2017. \n\nFrom 1981 to 1983 Cox served in the Reagan Administration as the Senior Vice President and General Counsel of a government corporation, The United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation. \nHe has served Presidents Richard Nixon and George H.W. Bush in the international arena. He has visited with numerous officials, including heads of state or government, in more than 30 countries including China, Russia, Israel, Cuba, England, japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, Italy, Greece, Hungry, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, Pakistan, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and Saudia Arabia.\n\nHe was commissioner of the Commission on Judicial Nomination (nominating candidates for New York's highest court, 1991 to 2009) and Chairman of the New York Council of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation (1995 to 2008).\n\nHe was a Trustee of the State University of New York (SUNY) from 1995 to 2009. From 1999 to 2009 as Co-Chairman and Chairman of SUNY’s Charter School Committee, Cox founded SUNY’s Charter School Institute and led the authorization of fifty charter schools.\n\nIn 2006, Cox served as the chairman of newly elected Attorney General Andrew Cuomo’s environmental and energy transition team.\n\nIn K-12 education, Cox has served as a director of Student Sponsor Partnership, which supports and mentors parochial high school students, since its founding in 1985. He is also a director of the New York Institute for Special Education which has been a leading school for the blind since 1831.\n\nCox has served for more than 15 years as Chairman of the New York League of Conservation Voters Education Fund.\n\nHe has led an American delegation to, and presented at, Ditchley conferences, and is a director of Ditchley’s American Advisory Board. \n\nHis work has appeared in the Wall Street Journal, The New Republic, the Antitrust Law Journal and the New York Post, and in 1968 and 1969 he researched and co-authored The Nader Report on the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) which spawned “Nader’s Raiders” and the rejuvenation of the FTC as a consumer advocate. \n\nCox has assisted Republican candidates in New York at all levels in numerous election cycles. In the 1994 state election, Cox played a key role in electing George Pataki Governor and Dennis Vacco Attorney General. \n\nCox was rumored to be considering a run for Governor of New York in 2006 if then-Gov. George Pataki opted not to seek re-election. Pataki did not run again, but Cox later chose instead to seek the seat held by incumbent U.S. Senator Hillary Clinton (D) in the 2006 New York U.S. Senate election. However, after Pataki endorsed a rival Republican--Westchester County District Attorney Jeanine Pirro--for Senate, Cox announced on October 14, 2005 that he was no longer running.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, Cox chaired John McCain's presidential campaign efforts in the State of New York.\n\nCox was elected chairman of the New York State Republican Committee at the Committee's meeting on September 30, 2009. Cox had a seven-point \"agenda for the future\" when elected chairman:\n\nCox announced on May 20, 2019 that he was joining President Donald Trump's re-election campaign and that he would not run for re-election as Chairman of the New York Republican State Committee stating, \"Serving as Chairman of the NYGOP over the last ten years has been one of the most rewarding chapters of my life, and I will continue to actively help elect more Republicans here in New York'\". On July 1, 2019, Nick Langworthy, the Erie County Chairman succeeded Ed Cox as Chairman the New York State Republican Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855448", "title": "Giacomo (horse)", "text": "Giacomo (horse)\n\nGiacomo (foaled February 16, 2002 in Kentucky) is an American Thoroughbred race horse and sire best known for winning the 2005 Kentucky Derby.\n\nThe gray stallion is owned by his breeder, Jerry Moss, who may be better known for co-founding A&M Records with trumpeter Herb Alpert. Giacomo was named after the son of Sting. Giacomo's dam Set Them Free also produced Tiago.\n\nGiacomo was trained during his racing career by John Shirreffs.\n\nGiacomo, ridden by Mike E. Smith won the 2005 Kentucky Derby in a time of 2:02.75. At odds of 50–1, Giacomo stands as tied, with Mine That Bird in 2009, for the third-biggest longshot ever to win the Derby, trailing only Donerail, who went off at 91–1 in 1913 and Country House (horse), at 65-1 in 2019.\nGiacomo's owner received a first-place check of $1,639,600 for the victory, the largest in Kentucky Derby history.\n\nGiacomo finished third in the 2005 Preakness Stakes behind the favorite, Afleet Alex. He finished seventh in the 2005 Belmont Stakes, again behind the favored Afleet Alex; Smith said after the race that the horse had breathing problems. \n\nGiacomo continued to race after his disappointing Belmont finish. In his first race back, he finished third in the Strub Stakes at Santa Anita Park. After that, he was raced in the prestigious Grade I Santa Anita Handicap, where he finished 5th and was never a threat. After a four-month layoff, Giacomo won the July 22, 2006, San Diego Handicap by a head. The victory was followed by a 5th in the Pacific Classic Stakes and a show in the Goodwood Breeders' Cup Handicap, where Giacomo lost to Lava Man for the 3rd time in 4 races. Despite the fact that Giacomo had only won two stakes races, he was entered in the 2006 Breeders' Cup Classic field, where he faced Lava Man as well as other top horses such as Bernardini and the eventual winner, Invasor. Giacomo finished fourth.\n\nAfter the Breeders' Cup, it was announced that Giacomo would be retired to stud at Adena Springs in Kentucky.\n\nIn November 2015, Oakhurst Thoroughbreds announced Giacomo would stand at stud at their facility in Newberg, Oregon, making Giacomo the second Kentucky Derby winner to stand at stud in Oregon (along with Grindstone.)\n\n"}
{"id": "1855451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855451", "title": "National Renewal Movement", "text": "National Renewal Movement\n\nNational Renewal Movement (in Spanish: \"Movimiento de Renovación Nacional\"), was a political party in Peru. It was founded by Julio Bedoya Villacorta in 1947.\n"}
{"id": "1855455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855455", "title": "Empresario", "text": "Empresario\n\nAn empresario was a person who had been granted the right to settle on land in exchange for recruiting and taking responsibility for settling the eastern areas of Coahuila y Tejas in the early nineteenth century. The word is Spanish for entrepreneur (from \"empresa\", \"company\"). \n\nBy empresarios attracting immigrants mostly from the southern United States to Texas, they as a consequence encouraged the spread of slavery into this territory. Although Mexico banned slavery in 1836, Texas gained independence that year, and continued to develop an economy dominated by slavery in the eastern part of the territory.\n\nIn 1829, Mexico abolished slavery, which affected the Anglo-American settlers’ quest for wealth in building colonizations worked by enslaved Africans. They lobbied the Mexican government for a reversal of the ban and gained only a one-year extension to settle their affairs and free their bonded workers - the government refused to legalize slavery. The settlers decided to secede from Mexico, initiating the famous and mythologized Battle of the Alamo in 1836.\n\nIn the late 18th century, Spain stopped allocating new lands in much of Spanish Texas, stunting the growth of the province. It changed this policy in 1820, and made it more flexible, allowing colonists of any religion to settle in Texas (formerly settlers were required to be Catholic, the established religion of the Spanish Empire). Moses Austin, a British colonist, was the only man granted an \"empresarial\" contract in Texas under Spanish law. But Moses Austin died before he could begin his colony, and Mexico achieved its independence from Spain in September 1821. At this time, about 3500 colonists lived in Texas, mostly congregated at San Antonio and La Bahia.\n\nThe Mexican government continued the generous immigration policies in order to develop east Texas. Even as the government debated a new colonization law, Stephen F. Austin, son of Moses Austin, was given permission to take over his father's colonization contract. Steven F. Austin is probably the best known and most successful empresario in Texas. The first group of colonists, known as the Old Three Hundred, arrived in 1822 and settled along the Brazos River, ranging from the Gulf of Mexico to near present-day Dallas. \n\nIn 1823, Mexico’s authoritarian ruler Agustín de Iturbide enacted a colonization law authorizing the national government to enter into a contract granting land to an “empresario,” or promoter, who was required to recruit a minimum of two hundred families to settle the grant.\n\nMexico approved immigration on a wider basis in 1824 with passage of the General Colonization Law. This law authorized all heads of household who were citizens of or immigrants to Mexico as eligible to claim land. After the law passed, the state government of Coahuila y Tejas was inundated with requests by foreign speculators to establish colonies within the state. There was no shortage of people willing to come to Texas. The United States was still struggling with the aftermath of the Panic of 1819, and soaring land prices within the United States made the Mexican land policy seem very generous.\n\nMost successful empresarios recruited colonists primarily in the United States. Only two of the groups that attempted to recruit in Europe built lasting colonies, Refugio and San Patricio. These colonies were successful in part because the empresarios spoke Spanish, were Catholic and generally familiar with Mexican ways, and allowed local Mexican families to join their colonies.\n\nUnlike its predecessor, the Mexican law required immigrants to practice Catholicism and stressed that foreigners needed to learn Spanish. Settlers were supposed to own property or have a craft or useful profession, and all people wishing to live in Texas were expected to report to the nearest Mexican authority for permission to settle. The rules were widely disregarded and many families became squatters.\n\nUnder the new laws, people who did not already possess property in Texas could claim 4438 acres of irrigable land, with an additional 4438 available to those who owned cattle. Empresarios and individuals with large families were exempt from the limit.\n\nAfter the Republic of Texas won its independence from Mexico, the young nation continued its own version of the empresario program, offering grants to French diplomat Henri Castro and abolitionist Charles Fenton Mercer, among others.\n\n\n\nMaps:\n\nSoccer"}
{"id": "1855456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855456", "title": "National Alliance (Peru)", "text": "National Alliance (Peru)\n\nNational Alliance (in Spanish: \"Alianza Nacional\"), was a political party in Peru in 1947 by Pedro Beltrán Espantoso.\n"}
{"id": "1855457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855457", "title": "Alvah Bessie", "text": "Alvah Bessie\n\nAlvah Cecil Bessie (June 4, 1904 – July 21, 1985) was an American novelist, journalist and screenwriter who was imprisoned for ten months and blacklisted by the movie studio bosses for being one of the group known as the Hollywood Ten.\n\nAlvah Bessie was born to a Jewish family, the younger of two sons of Daniel Nathan Cohen Bessie and Adeline Schlesinger Bessie. Bessie's father was an inventor and successful businessman and the family lived a comfortable life in a prosperous section of Harlem in New York City. He graduated from Dewitt Clinton High School where he had the reputation of being a rebellious student. He subsequently enrolled in Columbia University in 1920, graduating in 1924 with a B.A. in English. In 1922, the Bessie family finances had taken a serious down turn after which the elder Bessie died. This reversal of family circumstances freed Bessie to pursue his own interests and ambition without the intervention of his authoritarian father. Through a friend Bessie was introduced to the Provincetown Players whose guiding member was playwright Eugene O’Neill. Bessie became an actor in the group, which led to a four-year period of theatre work for him in Provincetown as well as in the New York theatre world as performer and actor/manager. Recognizing his talents as an actor were limited, Bessie moved to France in 1928, joining the colony of American expatriates who had relocated there. Bessie now focused his energies on becoming a writer.\n\nBessie became initially known for his translations of avant-garde French literature,\nincluding \"Songs of Bilitis\" by Pierre Louÿs and \"The Torture Garden\" \nby Octave Mirbeau.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Bessie became alarmed at the rise of fascism, and began working for the anti-fascist cause.\nNo stranger to soldiering, through 1938 Bessie fought as a volunteer in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade of the International Brigades during the Spanish Civil War. Upon his return, he wrote a book about his experiences, \"Men in Battle\". About the book, Ernest Hemingway commented:\n\nA true, honest, fine book. Bessie writes truly and finely of all that he could see ... and he saw enough.\nBessie then joined the American Communist Party and worked as the film reviewer for the left-wing \nmagazine \"The New Masses\".\nBessie wrote screenplays for Warner Brothers and other studios during the mid and late 1940s. He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Story for the patriotic Warner's film \"Objective Burma\" (1945).\n\nHis career came to a halt in 1947, when he was summoned before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). He refused to deny or confirm involvement in the Communist Party USA, and in 1950, he became one of the Hollywood Ten when he was imprisoned and blacklisted. After his release from prison, he worked at the hungry i nightclub in San Francisco, running the lights and sound board and frequently introducing performers. Bessie left the Communist Party in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1957, Bessie wrote a novel fictionalising his experiences with the HUAC, \"The Un-Americans\".\nHe followed this with a non-fiction account of his confrontation with the same organisation, \"Inquisition in Eden\", in which he boasted of inserting pro-Soviet propaganda that was \"subversive as all hell\" into the film \"Action in the North Atlantic\". Bessie's greatest commercial and critical success came with the satirical novel \"The Symbol\", about the exploitation by the film industry of an unhappy\nactress who resembles Marilyn Monroe. He wrote another non-fiction book in 1975, \"Spain Again\", which chronicled his experiences as a co-writer and actor in a Spanish movie of the same name (\"Spain Again\", 1969).\n\nHis screenwriting career was ruined by the blacklisting, and he never returned to Hollywood. Late in his life, however, he was involved in bringing his novel \"Bread and a Stone\" to the screen in the feature film \"Hard Traveling\" (1986) starring J.E. Freeman and Ellen Geer. The screenplay for the film was written by one of Alvah's two sons, Dan Bessie, who has also spent his career working in the film industry. Dan Bessie has published some of his father's previously unpublished or uncollected works, notably his \"Spanish Civil War Notebooks\" (2001).\n\nIn his family biography \"Rare Birds: An American Family\" (University Press of Kentucky, 2001), Dan Bessie notes that Alvah was related to some highly successful entrepreneurs: he was father-in-law of well-known 1960s poster artist Wes Wilson, husband of Alvah's daughter Eva, and a brother-in-law (through his first wife, Mary) of famous advertising executive Leo Burnett.\n\nBessie died in Terra Linda, California, aged 81, of a heart attack.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855462", "title": "The Nitro Girls", "text": "The Nitro Girls\n\nThe Nitro Girls were a dance team in World Championship Wrestling. Their initial function was to dance and entertain the live crowds during commercial breaks.\n\nThe Nitro Girls were formed in 1997 by Kimberly Page at Eric Bischoff's request and made their debut on July 14 in Orlando, Florida. Their main focus was to entertain the live fans during the commercials of \"Monday Nitro\". They also regularly performed in short segments on the show.\n\nThe Nitro Girls filmed their own pay-per-view, dubbed \"The Nitro Girls Swimsuit Calendar Special\" which aired on August 3, 1999 and was later released on home video.\n\nIn late 1999, the group held a competition to find a new member. 300 women took part in the contest; the results were decided by a series of polls on WCW's website, which narrowed down the field to eight finalists. On the November 8, 1999 edition of \"Nitro\", Stacy Keibler was declared the winner of the contest after receiving the most votes out of the eight finalists; she received a spot on the dance troupe, along with a $10,000 prize. Her winning routine was watched by 4.4 million viewers.\n\nThe Nitro Girls also made appearances at WCW promotional events and were featured in the WCW produced film \"Ready to Rumble\". As the group became more and more involved in storylines, it slowly dissolved, but never officially broke up until 2001 when WCW was sold to Vince McMahon's World Wrestling Federation.\n\nIn October 1999, Kimberly Page began to appear with husband and wrestler Diamond Dallas Page. At Halloween Havoc, she claimed that Ric Flair spanked her 14 times after she was going to drug his son David Flair in a hotel room. Diamond Dallas Page wrestled Ric Flair in a strap match. On the November 1, 1999 episode of \"Nitro\", Kimberly quit the group as a result of her husband being injured by David Flair; she then ran him over with her car.\n\nAfter Kimberly left, the Nitro Girls began to feud with each other; Spice feuded with A.C. Jazz over the new leadership position and won. After Jazz left the group, Tygress attempted to gain control.\n\nOn the November 22, 1999 episode of \"Nitro\", Spice and Tygress competed in the first professional wrestling match involving any of the group's members; Tygress defeated Spice after the latter suffered an injury to her eye.\n\nBy early 2000, the Nitro Girls broke up and began to go their own way within WCW. Kimberly Page joined The New Blood. Sharmell Sullivan became Paisley, a valet for The Artist, and later went to the WWE. Stacy Keibler, the final member to join the group, began appearing as Miss Hancock (the manager for the tag team Standards and Practices) before going to the WWE.\n\nSeveral former Nitro Girls formed a pop music group called Diversity 5: Teri Byrne (Fyre), Melissa Bellin (Spice), Sharmell Sullivan (Storm), Chae An (Chae) and Vanessa Sanchez (Tygress). When Sharmell went to the WWF, Chiquita Anderson (Chiquita) replaced her. The D5 group released one CD single (I Promise/Shake Me Up) in 2001. The group appeared on the Fox reality show \"30 Seconds to Fame\" on October 31, 2002, and were promptly voted off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855463", "title": "Hallgrímskirkja", "text": "Hallgrímskirkja\n\nHallgrímskirkja (, \"church of Hallgrímur\") is a Lutheran (Church of Iceland) parish church in Reykjavík, Iceland. At high, it is the largest church in Iceland and among the tallest structures in the country. The church is named after the Icelandic poet and clergyman Hallgrímur Pétursson (1614–1674), author of the Passion Hymns.\n\nSituated in the centre of Reykjavík, it is one of the city's best-known landmarks and is visible throughout the city. State Architect Guðjón Samúelsson's design of the church was commissioned in 1937. He is said to have designed it to resemble the trap rocks, mountains and glaciers of Iceland's landscape. The design is similar in style to the expressionist architecture of Grundtvig's Church of Copenhagen, Denmark, completed in 1940.\n\nIt took 41 years to build the church: construction started in 1945 and ended in 1986, but the landmark tower being completed long before the whole church was completed. The crypt beneath the choir was consecrated in 1948, the steeple and wings were completed in 1974, and the nave was consecrated in 1986. At the time of construction, the building was criticized as too old-fashioned and as a blend of different architectural styles. The church was originally intended to be less tall, but the leaders of the Church of Iceland wanted a large spire so as to outshine Landakotskirkja (Landakot's Church), which was the cathedral of the Catholic Church in Iceland.\n\nThe interior is . In 2008, the church underwent a major restoration of the main tower, and was covered in scaffolding. In late 2009, restoration was completed and the scaffolding was removed.\n\nThe church houses a large pipe organ by the German organ builder Johannes Klais of Bonn. It has electronic action; the pipes are remote from the four manuals and pedal console. There are 102 ranks, 72 stops and 5275 pipes. It is tall and weighs . Its construction was finished in December 1992. It has been recorded by Christopher Herrick in his \"Organ Fireworks VII\" CD and by on his CD \"Live at Vatnajökull\".\n\nThe church is also used as an observation tower. An observer can take a lift up to the viewing deck and view Reykjavík and the surrounding mountains. The church is still used today for modern services and weddings. \n\nThe statue of explorer Leif Erikson (c.970 – c.1020) by Alexander Stirling Calder in front of the church predates its construction. It was a gift from the United States in honor of the 1930 Althing Millennial Festival, commemorating the 1000th anniversary of Iceland's parliament at Þingvellir in 930 AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855464", "title": "Democratic Union Party (Peru)", "text": "Democratic Union Party (Peru)\n\nDemocratic Union Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Unión Democrático\") was a political party in Peru that was founded in 1947 by Paulino Prado Altamirano.\n"}
{"id": "1855468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855468", "title": "Yosef Ben-Jochannan", "text": "Yosef Ben-Jochannan\n\nYosef Alfredo Antonio Ben-Jochannan (; December 31, 1918 – March 19, 2015), referred to by his admirers as \"Dr. Ben\", was an American writer and historian. He was considered to be one of the more prominent Afrocentric scholars by some Black Nationalists, while most mainstream scholars dismissed him because of the basic historical inaccuracies in his work, as well as disputes about the authenticity of his educational degrees and academic credentials.\n\nBen-Jochannan stated that he was born in Ethiopia to a Puerto Rican Jewish mother and an Ethiopian Jewish father. Other sources say that he \"was probably Puerto Rican but claimed to be of Ethiopian Jewish extraction.\" Colleagues and family members have presented evidence that contradicts most of his account of his origins.\n\nBen-Jochannan's academic record is disputed, with claims he was educated variously in Puerto Rico, Brazil, Cuba, or Spain, earning degrees in either engineering and/or anthropology. In 1938, he is said to have earned a BS in Civil Engineering at the University of Puerto Rico; this is disputed as the registrar has no record of his attendance. He stated that in 1939 he earned a master's degree in Architectural Engineering from the University of Havana, Cuba. He also claimed to have earned doctoral degrees (PhD) in Cultural Anthropology and Moorish History from the University of Havana and the University of Barcelona, Spain, respectively, and advanced degrees from Cambridge University in England. Both Barcelona and Cambridge say that he never received a degree from either university and, furthermore, Cambridge University said it had no record of Ben-Jochannan ever attending any classes there.\n\nAccording to his obituary, Ben-Jochannan holds honorary doctoral degrees from Sojourner-Douglass College (Baltimore), Marymount College (New York), and Medgar Evers College (Brooklyn).\n\nA \"New York Times\" article published after Ben-Jochannan's death discussed the lifelong inconsistencies in his reported academic record: \n\nAccounts agree on little else other than that Ben-Jochannan was raised in the Caribbean and immigrated to the United States about 1940, where he reportedly worked as a draftsman and continued his studies. He later stated that in 1945, he was appointed chairman of the African Studies Committee at the headquarters of the newly founded UNESCO. He said he worked for them until 1970. However, UNESCO staff state that they have \"no record of Mr. Ben-Jochannan ever having been employed by the United Nations.\" Ben-Jochannan also stated that he began teaching Egyptology at Malcolm-King College in Harlem in 1950, but this volunteer-run effort was not founded until 1968, when it started with 13 students. He later taught at City College in New York City. From 1973 to 1987, he was an adjunct (part-time) professor at Cornell University.\n\nBen-Jochannan was the author of 49 books, primarily on ancient Nile Valley civilizations and their influence on Western cultures. In his writings, he asserts that the original Jews were from Ethiopia and were Africans. He says that the Semitic (white) Jews later adopted the Jewish faith and its customs.\n\nAccording to his obituary, Ben-Jochannan began his educational teaching in Harlem in 1967 at HARYOU-ACT. He worked as an adjunct professor (1973–1987) at Cornell University in the Africana Studies and Research Center, then directed by James Turner. He also taught at other institutions, including Rutgers University. In 1977 he accepted an honorary faculty position with the Israelite Rabbinical Academy at Beth Shalom Hebrew Congregation in Brooklyn. (See Capers Funnye.) Ben-Jochannan appeared several times on Gil Noble's WABC-TV weekly public affairs series \"Like It Is\".\n\nDuring his career in the 1980s, Ben-Jochannan was well known for leading guided tours to the Nile Valley. Ben-Jochannan's 15-day trips to Egypt, billed as \"Dr. Ben's Alkebu-Lan Educational Tours,\" using what he said was an ancient name for Africa, typically ran three times a summer, shuttling as many as 200 people to Africa per season.\n\nBen-Jochannan earned the respect of a later generation of black intellectuals. Cornel West said he \"was blessed to study at his feet.\" Ta-Nehisi Coates, the son of Ben-Jochannan's publisher, praised him for teaching that history \"is not this objective thing that exists outside of politics... It exists well within politics, and part of its job has been to position black people in a place of use for white people\".\n\nIn 2002, Ben-Jochannan donated his library of more than 35,000 volumes, manuscripts and ancient scrolls to the Nation of Islam. In the years before his death, Ben-Jochannan lived in the Harlem section of Manhattan in New York City, in an apartment complex known as Lenox Terrace.\n\nBen-Jochannan married three times and had a total of 13 children. He died on March 19, 2015, at the age of 96. at the Bay Park Nursing Home in the Bronx.\n\nBen-Jochannan has been criticized for allegedly distorting history and promoting Black supremacy. In February 1993, Wellesley College European classics professor Mary Lefkowitz publicly confronted Ben-Jochannan about his teachings. Ben-Jochannan taught that Aristotle visited the Library of Alexandria. During the question and answer session following the lecture, Lefkowitz asked ben-Jochannan, \"How would that have been possible, when the library was not built until after his death?\" Ben-Jochannan replied that the dates were uncertain. Lefkowitz writes that ben-Jochannan proceeded to tell those present that \"they could and should believe what only Black instructors told them\" and \"that although they might think that Jews were all 'hook-nosed and sallow faced,' there were other Jews who looked Black like himself.\"\n\nAfrican-American professor Clarence E. Walker wrote that Ben-Jochannan not only confused Cleopatra VII with her daughter Cleopatra VIII and stated she was black, but also wrote that \"Cleopatra VIII committed suicide after being discovered in a plot with Marc Antonio [Mark Anthony] to murder Julius Caesar.\" This would be highly problematic considering Julius Caesar was assassinated 14 years before Cleopatra VII's suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855469", "title": "Hungarian shield", "text": "Hungarian shield\n\nA Hungarian (or Hungarian-style) shield was a specific form of targe. It was rectangular at the bottom, but the upper edge swept upward forming a curve. The elongated upper edge was designed to protect the head and neck against sabre cuts. They were characteristic for the Hungarian light cavalry. During the 16th century, the design became popular across much of eastern Europe, among both Christian and Muslim horsemen.\n\nUp to the 15th century, this type was in use in Germany as well as in Hungary. The 15th-century German Gladiatoria fechtbuch depicts what it calls \"ungrischer schilt\" used by two fencers on foot. The upward sweeping edge is less pronounced than a point attached to the lower edge, apparently for offensive use, similar to a pata.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855470", "title": "John I of Trebizond", "text": "John I of Trebizond\n\nJohn I Axouchos (, \"Iōannēs I Axoukhos\") was Emperor of Trebizond from 1235 to 1238. One editor reads the text of the chronicle of Michael Panaretos as stating that John ruled six years; although William Miller follows Fallmerayer in assuming this was a mistake for three years, another possible solution is that John was co-ruler with his predecessor Andronikos I Gidos for three years then ruled alone for three more.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Alexios I of Trebizond and a woman the primary sources do not identify; some writers have named her Theodora Axuchina. Miller suggests that he was perhaps a minor at the time of his father's death in 1222, for his father was succeeded by the throne passed to Alexis' son-in-law, Andronikos I Gidos. During the Siege of Sinope, one of the sources states that Alexios has \"grown sons in Trebizond who are capable of governing\", so it is clear John was born before 1214.\n\nLittle is recorded of John's reign, except that John died while playing tzykanion, a variant of polo fashionable among the Byzantine nobility, when he fell from his horse and was trampled to death. His heir apparent was one Ioannikios, who was confined to a monastery and John's second brother Manuel I ascended the throne. Since Fallmerayer, most historians have assume that Ioannikios was John Axouchos' son, but Panaretos' \"Chronicle\" does not state how Ioannikios was related to John Axouchos. Rustam Shukurov has argued that Ioannikios was the brother of both John and Manuel.\n\nOlder authorities credited John Axouchos with issuing the first silver coins, or aspers of the Empire of Trebizond, but more recent authorities believe these coins better fit with the aspers struck during John II Megas Komnenos on numismatic grounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855476", "title": "WKW", "text": "WKW\n\nWKW may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855478", "title": "Azide-alkyne Huisgen cycloaddition", "text": "Azide-alkyne Huisgen cycloaddition\n\nThe azide-alkyne Huisgen cycloaddition is a 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition between an azide and a terminal or internal alkyne to give a 1,2,3-triazole. Rolf Huisgen was the first to understand the scope of this organic reaction. American chemist Karl Barry Sharpless has referred to this cycloaddition as \"the cream of the crop\" of click chemistry and \"the premier example of a click reaction.\"\n\nIn the reaction above azide 2 reacts neatly with alkyne 1 to afford the triazole 3 as a mixture of 1,4-adduct and 1,5-adduct at 98 °C in 18 hours.\n\nThe standard 1,3-cycloaddition between an azide 1,3-dipole and an alkene as dipolarophile has largely been ignored due to lack of reactivity as a result of electron-poor olefins and elimination side reactions. Some success has been found with non-metal-catalyzed cycloadditions, such as the reactions using dipolarophiles that are electron-poor olefins or alkynes.\n\nAlthough azides are not the most reactive 1,3-dipole available for reaction, they are preferred for their relative lack of side reactions and stability in typical synthetic conditions.\n\nA notable variant of the Huisgen 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition is the copper(I) catalyzed variant, no longer a true concerted cycloaddition, in which organic azides and terminal alkynes are united to afford 1,4-regioisomers of 1,2,3-triazoles as sole products (substitution at positions 1' and 4' as shown above). The copper(I)-catalyzed variant was first reported in 2002 in independent publications by Morten Meldal at the Carlsberg Laboratory in Denmark and Valery Fokin and K. Barry Sharpless at the Scripps Research Institute.\nWhile the copper(I)-catalyzed variant gives rise to a triazole from a terminal alkyne and an azide, formally it is not a 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition and thus should not be termed a Huisgen cycloaddition. This reaction is better termed the Copper(I)-catalyzed Azide-Alkyne Cycloaddition (CuAAC).\n\nWhile the reaction can be performed using commercial sources of copper(I) such as cuprous bromide or iodide, the reaction works much better using a mixture of copper(II) (e.g. copper(II) sulfate) and a reducing agent (e.g. sodium ascorbate) to produce Cu(I) in situ. As Cu(I) is unstable in aqueous solvents, stabilizing ligands are effective for improving the reaction outcome, especially if tris-(benzyltriazolylmethyl)amine (TBTA) is used. The reaction can be run in a variety of solvents, and mixtures of water and a variety of (partially) miscible organic solvents including alcohols, DMSO, DMF, \"t\"BuOH and acetone. Owing to the powerful coordinating ability of nitriles towards Cu(I), it is best to avoid acetonitrile as the solvent. The starting reagents need not be completely soluble for the reaction to be successful. In many cases, the product can simply be filtered from the solution as the only purification step required.\n\nNH-1,2,3-triazoles are also prepared from alkynes in a sequence called the Banert cascade.\n\nThe utility of the Cu(I)-catalyzed click reaction has also been demonstrated in the polymerization reaction of a bis-azide and a bis-alkyne with copper(I) and TBTA to a conjugated fluorene based polymer. The degree of polymerization easily exceeds 50. With a stopper molecule such as phenyl azide, well-defined phenyl end-groups are obtained.\n\nThe copper-mediated azide-alkyne cycloaddition is receiving widespread use in material and surface sciences. Most variations in coupling polymers with other polymers or small molecules have been explored. Current shortcomings are that the terminal alkyne appears to participate in free-radical polymerizations. This requires protection of the terminal alkyne with a trimethyl silyl protecting group and subsequent deprotection after the radical reaction are completed. Similarly the use of organic solvents, copper (I) and inert atmospheres to do the cycloaddition with many polymers makes the \"click\" label inappropriate for such reactions. An aqueous protocol for performing the cycloaddition with free-radical polymers is highly desirable.\n\nThe CuAAC click reaction also effectively couples polystyrene and bovine serum albumin (BSA). The result is an amphiphilic biohybrid. BSA contains a thiol group at Cys-34 which is functionalized with an alkyne group. In water the biohybrid micelles with a diameter of 30 to 70 nanometer form aggregates.\n\nThe use of a Cu catalyst in water was an improvement over the same reaction first popularized by Rolf Huisgen in the 1970s, which he ran at elevated temperatures. The traditional reaction is slow and thus requires high temperatures. However, the azides and alkynes are both kinetically stable.\n\nAs mentioned above, copper-catalysed click reactions work essentially on terminal alkynes. The Cu species undergo metal insertion reaction into the terminal alkynes. The Cu(I) species may either be introduced as preformed complexes, or are otherwise generated in the reaction pot itself by one of the following ways:\n\nCommonly used solvents are polar aprotic solvents such as THF, DMSO, acetonitrile, DMF as well as in non-polar aprotic solvents such as toluene. Neat solvents or a mixture of solvents may be used.\n\nDIPEA (N,N-Diisopropylethylamine) and EtN (triethylamine) are commonly used bases.\n\nA mechanism for the reaction has been suggested based on density functional theory calculations. Copper is a 1st row transition metal. It has the electronic configuration [Ar] 3d 4s. The copper (I) species generated in situ forms a pi complex with the triple bond of a terminal alkyne. In the presence of a base, the terminal hydrogen, being the most acidic, is deprotonated first to give a Cu acetylide intermediate. Studies have shown that the reaction is second order with respect to Cu. It has been suggested that the transition state involves two copper atoms. One copper atom is bonded to the acetylide while the other Cu atom serves to activate the azide. The metal center coordinates with the electrons on the nitrogen atom. The azide and the acetylide are not coordinated to the same Cu atom in this case. The ligands employed are labile and are weakly coordinating. The azide displaces one ligand to generate a copper-azide-acetylide complex. At this point cyclization takes place. This is followed by protonation; the source of proton being the hydrogen which was pulled off from the terminal acetylene by the base. The product is formed by dissociation and the catalyst ligand complex is regenerated for further reaction cycles.\n\nThe reaction is assisted by the copper, which, when coordinated with the acetylide lowers the pKa of the alkyne C-H by up to 9.8 units. Thus under certain conditions, the reaction may be carried out even in the absence of a base.\n\nIn the uncatalysed reaction the alkyne remains a poor electrophile. Thus high energy barriers lead to slow reaction rates.\nThe ligands employed are usually labile i.e. they can be displaced easily. Though the ligand plays no direct role in the reaction the presence of a ligand has its advantages.\nThe ligand protects the Cu ion from interactions leading to degradation and formation of side products and also prevents the oxidation of the Cu(I) species to the Cu(II). Furthermore, the ligand functions as a proton acceptor thus eliminating the need of a base.\n\nThe ruthenium-catalysed 1,3-dipolar azide-alkyne cycloaddition (RuAAC) gives the 1,5-triazole. \nUnlike CuAAC in which only terminal alkynes reacted, in RuAAC both terminal and internal alkynes can participate in the reaction. This suggests that ruthenium acetylides are not involved in the catalytic cycle.\n\nThe proposed mechanism suggests that in the first step, the spectator ligands undergo displacement reaction to produce an activated complex which is converted, through oxidative coupling of an alkyne and an azide to the ruthenium containing metallocyle (Ruthenacycle). The new C-N bond is formed between the more electronegative and less sterically demanding carbon of the alkyne and the terminal nitrogen of the azide. The metallacycle intermediate then undergoes reductive elimination releasing the aromatic triazole product and regenerating the catalyst or the activated complex for further reaction cycles.\n\nCpRuCl(PPh), CpRu(COD) and Cp[RuCl] are commonly used ruthenium catalysts. Catalysts containing cyclopentadienyl (Cp) group are also used. However, better results are observed with the pentamethylcyclopentadienyl(Cp) version. This may be due to the sterically demanding Cp group which facilitates the displacement of the spectator ligands.\n\nRecently, the discovery of a general Ag(I)-catalyzed azide–alkyne cycloaddition reaction (Ag-AAC) leading to 1,4-triazoles is reported. Mechanistic features are similar to the generally accepted mechanism of the copper(I)-catalyzed process. Silver(I)-salts alone are not sufficient to promote the cycloaddition. However the ligated Ag(I) source has proven to be exceptional for AgAAC reaction.\nCuriously, pre-formed silver acetylides do not react with azides; however, silver acetylides do react with azides under catalysis with copper(I).\n"}
{"id": "1855482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855482", "title": "2010 United Kingdom general election", "text": "2010 United Kingdom general election\n\nThe 2010 United Kingdom general election was held on Thursday, 6 May 2010, with 45,597,461 registered voters entitled to vote to elect members to the House of Commons. The election took place in 650 constituencies across the United Kingdom under the first-past-the-post system. None of the parties achieved the 326 seats needed for an overall majority. The Conservative Party, led by David Cameron, won the largest number of votes and seats, but still fell 20 seats short. This resulted in a hung parliament where no party was able to command a majority in the House of Commons. This was only the second general election since the Second World War to return a hung parliament, the first being the February 1974 election however unlike then the potential for such an outcome had been anticipated, and subsequently the politicians and the country as a whole was much better prepared for the constitutional process that would follow such a result. The coalition government that was subsequently formed was the first coalition in British history to eventuate directly from an election outcome. The hung parliament came about in spite of the Conservatives managing both a higher vote total and higher share of the vote than the previous Labour government had done in 2005, when it secured a comfortable majority.\n\nCoalition talks began immediately between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, and lasted for five days. There was an aborted attempt to put together a Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition (although other smaller parties would have been required to make up the ten seats they lacked for a majority). To facilitate this, Gordon Brown announced on the evening of Monday 10 May that he would resign as Leader of the Labour Party. Realising that a deal between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats was imminent, the next day on Tuesday 11 May Brown announced his resignation as Prime Minister, marking the end of 13 years of Labour government. This was accepted by Queen Elizabeth II, who then invited David Cameron to form a government in her name and become Prime Minister. Just after midnight on 12 May, the Liberal Democrats emerged from a meeting of their Parliamentary party and Federal Executive to announce that the coalition deal had been \"approved overwhelmingly\", sealing a coalition government of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats.\n\nNone of the three main party leaders had previously led a general election campaign, a situation which had not occurred since the 1979 election. During the campaign, the three main party leaders engaged in a series of televised debates, the first such debates in a UK general election campaign. The Liberal Democrats achieved a breakthrough in opinion polls after the first debate, in which their leader Nick Clegg was widely seen as the strongest performer. Nonetheless, on polling day their share of the vote increased by only 1% over the previous general election, and they suffered a net loss of five seats. This was still the Liberal Democrats' largest popular vote since the party's creation in 1988, and they found themselves in a pivotal role in the formation of the new government. The share of votes for parties other than Labour or the Conservatives was 35%, the largest since the 1918 general election. In terms of votes it was the most \"three-cornered\" election since 1923, and in terms of seats since 1929. The Green Party of England and Wales won its first ever seat in the House of Commons, and the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland also gained its first elected member. The general election saw a 5.1% national swing from Labour to the Conservatives, the third-largest since 1945. The result in one constituency, Oldham East and Saddleworth, was subsequently declared void on petition because of illegal practices during the campaign, the first such instance since 1910.\n\nThe prime minister, Gordon Brown, went to Buckingham Palace on 6 April and asked the Queen to dissolve Parliament on 12 April, confirming in a live press conference in Downing Street, as had long been speculated, that the election would be held on 6 May, five years since the previous election on 5 May 2005. The election took place on 6 May in 649 constituencies across the United Kingdom, under the first-past-the-post system, for seats in the House of Commons. Voting in the Thirsk and Malton constituency was postponed for three weeks because of the death of a candidate.\n\nThe governing Labour Party had campaigned to secure a fourth consecutive term in office and to restore support lost since 2001. The Conservative Party sought to gain a dominant position in British politics after losses in the 1990s, and to replace Labour as the governing party. The Liberal Democrats hoped to make gains from both sides and hoped to hold the balance of power in a hung parliament. Since the televised debates between the three leaders, their poll ratings had risen to the point where many considered the possibility of a Liberal Democrat role in Government. Polls just before election day saw a slight swing from the Liberal Democrats back to Labour and Conservatives, with the majority of final polls falling within one point of Conservatives 36%, Labour 29%, Liberal Democrats 23%. However, record numbers of undecided voters raised uncertainty about the outcome. The Scottish National Party, encouraged by their victory in the 2007 Scottish parliament elections, set itself a target of 20 MPs and was hoping to find itself holding a balance of power. Equally, Plaid Cymru sought gains in Wales. Smaller parties which had had successes at local elections and the 2009 European elections (UK Independence Party, Green Party, British National Party) looked to extend their representation to seats in the House of Commons. The Democratic Unionist Party looked to maintain, if not extend, its number of seats, having been the fourth largest party in the House of Commons.\n\nThe key dates were:\nThis election had an unusually high number of MPs choosing not to seek re-election with more standing down than did so at the 1945 general election (which on account of the extraordinary wartime circumstances came ten years after the preceding election). This has been attributed to the 2009 expenses scandal and the fact there was talk that redundancy-style payments for departing MPs might be scrapped after the election.\n\nIn all, 149 MPs (100 Labour, 35 Conservatives, 7 Liberal Democrats, 2 Independents, 1 Independent Conservative and 1 member each from the SNP, Plaid Cymru, the DUP, and the SDLP) decided not to contest the election. Additionally, three seats were vacant at the time of the dissolution of Parliament; two due to the deaths of Labour MPs and one due to the resignation in January 2010 of a DUP member.\n\nEach of the four national boundary commissions is required by the Parliamentary Constituencies Act 1986 (as amended by the Boundary Commissions Act 1992) to conduct a general review of all the constituencies in its part of the United Kingdom every eight to twelve years to ensure the size and composition of constituencies are as fair as possible. Based on the Rallings and Thrasher studies using ward by ward data from local elections and the 2005 general election, the new boundaries used in 2010 would have returned nine fewer Labour MPs had they been in place at the previous election; given that there are to be four more seats in the next parliament this nationally reduces Labour's majority from 66 to 48.\n\nPursuant to Boundary Commission for England recommendations, the number of seats in England increased by four, and numerous changes were made to the existing constituency boundaries.\n\nNorthern Ireland continued to elect 18 MPs, but minor changes were made to the eastern constituencies in accordance with the Northern Ireland Boundary Commission's recommendations. For the first time, these changes include the splitting of an electoral ward between two constituencies.\n\nFollowing the recommendations of the Boundary Commission for Wales, the total number of seats remained at 40, although new seats caused by radical redrawing of boundaries in Clwyd and Gwynedd were fought for the first time: Arfon and Dwyfor Meirionnydd replaced Caernarfon and Meirionnydd Nant Conwy, respectively; Aberconwy replaced Conwy. At the time of the election Welsh constituencies had electorates on average around 14,000 smaller than their counterparts in England.\n\nScotland saw its most recent large-scale review completed in 2004, so its 59 constituencies remained the same as at the 2005 general election.\n\nAll three main parties went into the general election having changed leaders since 2005. David Cameron became Conservative leader in December 2005, replacing Michael Howard. Gordon Brown succeeded Tony Blair as leader of the Labour Party and Prime Minister in June 2007. Nick Clegg was elected as leader of the Liberal Democrats in December 2007, succeeding Menzies Campbell who had replaced Charles Kennedy in January 2006. The last time all three main parties went into a general election with new leaders was in the 1979 election, when James Callaghan as Labour leader, Margaret Thatcher for the Conservatives, and David Steel with the then-Liberal Party took to the polls.\n\nThe prospect of a coalition or minority government was being considered well before polling day. Gordon Brown made comments about the possibility of a coalition in January 2010. In 2009, it was reported that senior civil servants were to meet with the Liberal Democrats to discuss their policies, an indication of how seriously the prospect of a hung parliament was being taken. Nick Clegg and Menzies Campbell had continued the position of Charles Kennedy of not being prepared to form a coalition with either main party and of voting against any Queen's Speech unless there was an unambiguous commitment in it to introduce proportional representation.\n\nOther parties with representation at Westminster after the previous general election included the Scottish National Party, with six parliamentary seats, Plaid Cymru from Wales with three seats, and Respect – The Unity Coalition and Health Concern, each of which held one parliamentary seat in England. Since that election, the SNP won the 2007 Scottish Parliament elections and currently control the Scottish Government, and also won the largest share of the 2009 European Parliament election vote in Scotland. In Wales, the Labour Party remained the largest party in the Welsh Assembly, although Plaid Cymru increased their share of the vote and formed a coalition government with Labour.\n\nIn 2009 the Ulster Unionist Party and the Conservative Party announced they had formed an electoral alliance whereby the two parties would field joint candidates for future elections under the banner of \"Ulster Conservatives and Unionists – New Force\". However, this caused the sole UUP MP Lady Sylvia Hermon to resign from the party on 25 March 2010, leaving them with no representation at Westminster for the first time in their history.\n\nMany constituencies were contested by other, smaller parties. Parties that won no representatives at Westminster in 2005 but have seats in the devolved assemblies or European Parliament included the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland, the Progressive Unionist Party of Northern Ireland, the British National Party, the UK Independence Party (UKIP), and the Green parties in the UK: the Green Party of England and Wales, the Scottish Green Party, and the Green Party in Northern Ireland. In 2009, Nigel Farage announced his intention to resign as UKIP leader to focus on becoming an MP. Farage was replaced in an election by party members by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, whose stated intention was for the electoral support of UKIP to force a hung parliament. The Green Party of England and Wales voted to have a position of leader for the first time; the first leadership election was won by Caroline Lucas, who successfully contested the constituency of Brighton Pavilion.\n\nIn addition, a new loose coalition, Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition (TUSC), contested a general election for the first time. TUSC was a grouping of left wing parties that participated in the 2009 European Parliament elections under the name of No2EU; members included the Socialist Workers Party, the Socialist Party, the Socialist Alliance, Socialist Resistance, and is supported by some members of UNISON, the National Union of Teachers, the University and College Union, the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers, and the Public and Commercial Services Union. Several members of these unions ran as candidates under the TUSC banner. However, some former members of NO2EU, such as the Liberal Party and the Communist Party of Britain, chose not to participate in the TUSC campaign. The coalition did not run candidates against left wing Labour or Respect candidates.\n\nThe prospective Labour candidate for Moray, Stuart Maclennan, was sacked after making offensive comments on his Twitter page, referring to elderly voters as \"coffin dodgers\" and voters in the North of Scotland as \"teuchters\", and insulting politicians such as Cameron, Clegg, John Bercow and Diane Abbott.\n\nThe UKIP candidate for Thirsk and Malton—John Boakes—died, causing the election in the constituency to be postponed until 27 May.\n\nPhilip Lardner, the Conservative candidate for North Ayrshire and Arran, was suspended from the party for comments he made about homosexuality on his website, describing it as not \"normal behaviour\". Andrew Fulton, the chairman of the Scottish Conservative Party, called the comments \"deeply offensive and unacceptable\", adding: \"These views have no place in the modern Conservative party.\" However, he still appeared as a Conservative candidate because it was too late to remove his name from the ballot paper.\n\nA total of 2,378 postal voters in Bristol West were wrongly sent ballot papers for Bristol East by mistake. Bristol City Council officials asked people to tear up the wrong papers and said: \"Every effort will be made to ensure delivery [of new ballot papers] by 30 April.\"\n\nThe SNP attempted but failed to ban the broadcast of the final party leaders' debate in Scotland, in a court action. They had argued that \"the corporation [the BBC] had breached its rules on impartiality by excluding the SNP\". The judge, Lady Smith, ruled that \"the SNP's case 'lacks the requisite precision and clarity and added she could not \"conclude the BBC had breached impartiality rules\". Additionally, broadcasting regulator Ofcom ruled that it had not \"upheld complaints received from the SNP and Plaid Cymru about The First Election Debate broadcast on ITV1 on Thursday 15 April 2010\".\n\nThe leader of the UK Independence Party, Lord Pearson, wrote an open letter to Somerset newspapers, asking voters to support Conservative candidates, rather than UKIP candidates in the Somerton and Frome, Taunton Deane and Wells constituencies. This action was criticised by UKIP candidates who refused to stand down.\n\nThe Labour candidate for Bristol East and former MP Kerry McCarthy revealed information about postal votes cast in the constituency on Twitter. Avon and Somerset police said they were \"looking into a possible alleged breach of electoral law\". Bristol City Council stated: \"This is a criminal matter and [it] will be for the police to decide what action to take.\"\n\nThe former Prime Minister Tony Blair returned to the campaign trail for Labour, visiting a polyclinic in Harrow West, after a troubled Labour campaign.\n\nPostal voters in the marginal Vale of Glamorgan constituency had to be issued with new ballot papers after mistakenly being told they did not have to sign applications for postal votes.\n\nA group of entrepreneurs warned on the dangers of a Labour-Liberal coalition in an open letter to \"The Times\" on 29 April.\n\nGordon Brown, while in his Prime Ministerial Car on 28 April, privately described a 65-year-old woman and lifelong Labour voter, Gillian Duffy, from Rochdale, Greater Manchester, a Labour-Liberal Democrat marginal seat, as a \"bigoted woman\". She had asked him about vulnerable people supposedly not receiving benefits because immigrants were receiving them, adding: \"You can't say anything about the immigrants because you're saying that you're ... but all these eastern Europeans what are coming in, where are they flocking from?\" He replied: \"A million people have come from Europe but a million British people have gone into Europe.\" Brown's conversation with his communications director Justin Forsyth (JF) went:\n\nBrown's remarks were recorded by a Sky News microphone he was still wearing, and widely broadcast. It was later said that Brown had misheard Duffy and thought she had asked, \"where are they fucking from?\" Soon after the incident, Brown talked to Jeremy Vine live on BBC Radio 2 where he publicly apologised to Mrs Duffy. American comedian Jon Stewart commented that the clip showed the moment when Brown's \"political career leaves his body\". Subsequently, Brown visited her house for 43 minutes in order to apologise in person. Upon emerging, he described himself as a \"penitent sinner\", while Duffy refused to speak to the press and would not shake hands with him in front of the cameras. She said the incident had left her feeling more sad than angry and that she would not be voting for Labour or any other party. The incident was subsequently dubbed \"Bigotgate\", which was later added to the Collins English Dictionary. Despite this, Labour went on to gain the seat from the Liberal Democrats, one of the few gains they made in the election.\n\nIn Hornsey and Wood Green constituency 749 postal voters were sent ballot papers which asked voters to pick three candidates instead of one; Haringey Council had to send correct versions by hand.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police launched an investigation in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets. \"The Times\" reported on 2 May that the investigation had revealed some names on the register were fictitious, with a late surge in applications to be added to the electoral register (before 20 April deadline) leading to 5,000 additions without time for full checks. In terms of the outcome of the borough's two seats, the narrower majority in any event exceeded 5,000 votes in Poplar and Limehouse, at 6,030 votes.\n\nThe Labour candidate for North West Norfolk, Manish Sood, described Gordon Brown as Britain's worst ever Prime Minister. The comments, which he repeated to a variety of news outlets, took attention away from the previous day's speech by Brown to Citizens UK, widely described as his best in the campaign.\n\nA Conservative Party activist in Peterborough was arrested after alleged postal voting fraud, calling into question 150 postal votes.\n\nSimon Bennett resigned as the head of the British National Party's online operation then redirected its website to his own on which he attacked the party's leadership.\nOn the morning of polling day, 6 May, the former and later leader of UKIP, Nigel Farage, standing in Buckingham against the Speaker, was injured when a light banner-towing aircraft in which he was a passenger crashed near Brackley, Northamptonshire.\n\nGroups of voters waiting in queues at 10 pm were locked out of polling stations in Sheffield Hallam, Manchester and Leeds; and police said one London polling station was open until 10.30 pm, which triggered a national review of polling station requirements led by the Electoral Commission.\n\nThe counts for the Foyle and East Londonderry constituencies were suspended because of a security alert around 11 pm after a car was abandoned outside the counting centre, causing a bomb scare.\n\nFollowing a campaign by Sky News and with agreement of the party leaders, it was announced on 21 December 2009 that there would be three leaders' debates, each broadcast on prime time television, and a subsequent announcement in March 2010 that a debate between the financial spokesmen of the three main parties, Alistair Darling, George Osborne and Vince Cable would be held on 29 March.\n\nThe SNP insisted that as the leading political party in Scotland in the latest opinion poll, it should be included in any debate broadcast in Scotland. On 22 December 2009, the UKIP leader, Lord Pearson stated that his party should also be included. Following a decision by the BBC Trust not to uphold a complaint from the SNP and Plaid Cymru over their exclusion from the planned BBC debate, the SNP announced on 25 April that they would proceed with legal action over the debate scheduled for 29 April. The party said it was not trying to stop the broadcast but it wanted an SNP politician included for balance. The SNP lost the case, in a judgement delivered on 28 April.\n\nSince each MP is elected separately by the first past the post voting system, it is impossible to precisely project a clear election outcome from overall UK shares of the vote. Not only can individual constituencies vary markedly from overall voting trends, but individual countries and regions within the UK may have a very different electoral contest that is not properly reflected in overall share of the vote figures.\n\nImmediately following the previous general election, Labour held a double-digit lead in opinion polls. However, over the course of 2005, this lead was eroded somewhat. By December 2005, the Conservative party showed its first small leads in opinion polls following the controversial 90 days' detention proposals and the election of David Cameron to the leadership of the Conservative party.\n\nIn early 2006, opinion polls were increasingly mixed with small leads given alternately to Labour and Conservative. From the May 2006 local elections, in which Labour suffered significant losses, the Conservatives took a small single-digit lead in opinion polls. Labour regained the lead in June 2007 following the resignation of Tony Blair and the appointment of Gordon Brown as prime minister. From November 2007, the Conservatives again took the lead and, from then, extended their lead into double digits, particularly in response to the MPs' expenses scandal, although there was some evidence that the lead narrowed slightly towards the end of 2009. By the end of February 2010, Ipsos MORI, ICM, YouGov and ComRes polls had all found a sufficient narrowing of the Conservative lead for media speculation about a hung parliament to return.\n\nFrom 15 April 2010, following the first televised debate of the party leaders, polling data changed dramatically, with the Lib Dem vote proportion rising to 28–33%, and the Conservative vote proportion falling. In some polls, the Liberal Democrats took the lead from the Conservatives. Under UNS projections, this made a hung parliament highly probable, if Lib Dem performance had persisted.\n\nThe following graph shows ComRes poll results recorded over the period 11 April – 6 May 2010, including annotations of the three TV debates:\n\nAfter the second debate on 22 April the polls, on average, placed the Conservatives in the lead on 33%, the Liberal Democrats in second on 30% and Labour in third on 28%. If these polls had reflected the election day results on a uniform swing nationwide, Labour would have had the most seats in a hung Parliament.\n\nAt 22:00 on election day, coinciding with the closure of the polls, the results of an exit poll completed by GfK NOP and Ipsos MORI on behalf of the BBC, Sky and ITV news services was announced. Data were gathered from individuals at 130 polling stations around the country.\n\nThe results of the poll initially suggested a hung parliament with the Conservative Party 19 seats from a controlling majority; this was later adjusted to 21 seats. The distribution of seats amongst the Conservatives, Labour, Liberal Democrats and other parties was initially suggested to be 307, 255, 59 and 29, respectively, although the seat numbers were later changed to 303, 251, 69, and 27, respectively.\n\nInitial reaction to the exit poll by various commentators was of surprise at the apparent poor prospects for the Liberal Democrats because it was at odds with many opinion polls undertaken in the previous weeks. The actual results showed that the exit poll was a good predictor.\n\nA later BBC Exit poll (05:36 BST) predicted the Conservatives on 306, 20 short of an overall majority, Labour on 262, and Liberal Democrats on 55.\n\nNational newspapers in England traditionally endorse political parties before a general election. The following table shows which parties the major papers endorsed.\n\n\"The Independent\" and \"The Guardian\" advocated tactical voting to maximise the chance of a Liberal Democrat/Labour coalition to make electoral reform including of the House of Lords and introduction of domestic proportional representation more likely.\"\n\nTurnout nationally was 65%, a rise from the 61% turnout in the 2005 general election.\n\nOn 27 May 2010 the Conservatives won the final seat of Thirsk and Malton, thus giving them 306 seats. The election in that constituency had been delayed because of the death of the UKIP candidate.\n\nTwo results were also challenged by defeated candidates through election petitions – Fermanagh and South Tyrone, and Oldham East and Saddleworth.\n\nThe defeated Unionist 'Unity' candidate, Rodney Connor, lodged a petition against the successful Sinn Féin candidate, Michelle Gildernew, in Fermanagh and South Tyrone, alleging irregularities in the counting of the votes had affected the result. Gildernew had won with a plurality of four votes. However, the court found that there were only three ballot papers which could not be accounted for, and even if they were all votes for Connor, Gildernew would have had a plurality of one. The election was therefore upheld.\n\nOn 28 May 2010, the defeated Liberal Democrat candidate Elwyn Watkins lodged a petition against the election of Phil Woolas (Labour) in Oldham East and Saddleworth constituency. The petition challenged leaflets issued by Woolas's campaign as having contained false statements of fact concerning Watkins' personal character, which is an illegal practice under section 106 of the Representation of the People Act 1983. The statements attempted to link Watkins with Muslim extremists and death threats to Woolas, accused him of reneging on a promise to live in the constituency, and implied that his campaign was funded by illegal foreign political donations.\n\nDuring the court case a number of emails between Woolas and his campaign team emerged. In one, Woolas's agent, Joe Fitzpatrick, emailed Woolas and campaign adviser Steven Green, to say: \"Things are not going as well as I had hoped ... we need to think about our first attack leaflet.\" A reply from Fitzpatrick said: \"If we don't get the white vote angry he's gone.\" The court hearing finished on 17 September 2010, with the judges reserving their judgement until 5 November 2010. On that day Woolas was found to have breached section 106 of the Representation of the People Act 1983 in relation to three of the four statements complained about, and the judges ruled that his election was void. Phil Woolas applied for a judicial review into the ruling, stating that \"this election petition raised fundamental issues about the freedom to question and criticise politicians\" and that it \"will inevitably chill political speech\". He succeeded in overturning the finding in respect of one of the three statements but the main findings of the election court judgment were upheld. A by-election on 13 January 2011 resulted in the election of Debbie Abrahams (Labour).\n\nAt 9:41 on 7 May, the BBC confirmed a hung parliament. The Conservatives stood at 290 seats, Labour at 247 and Liberal Democrats at 51. One constituency seat (Thirsk and Malton) was contested on 27 May because of the death of the UKIP candidate and was won by the Conservative Party, whilst another seat (Oldham East and Saddleworth) later had its result declared void; Labour won the resulting by-election.\n\nThe result showed an overall 5.1% swing from Labour to the Conservatives, the third largest national swing achieved in a General Election since 1945 and similar to the 5.3% swing achieved by the Conservative leader Margaret Thatcher in 1979. The 97 net seat gains made by the Conservatives outdid their previous best gains total in 1950, when they gained 85. Labour's loss of 91 seats was worse than their previous greatest loss of seats, when they lost 77 seats in 1970.\n\nOf the 532 seats contested in England (a final seat, Thirsk and Malton, was contested on 27 May), the Conservatives won 298 seats and an absolute majority of 61 seats over all other parties combined, securing an average swing of 5.6% from Labour. Labour did poorly in many Southern areas, notably in the Eastern Region where they won only two of their 14 seats from 2005: Luton North and Luton South. Labour did, however, gain two seats: Bethnal Green and Bow and Chesterfield. The Conservatives made 95 of their gains in England, but they also suffered three losses, all to the Liberal Democrats. For the Liberal Democrats, their eight gains were overshadowed by their 12 losses – one to Labour and 11 to the Conservatives.\n\nNone of Scotland's 59 seats changed hands and all were held by the same party that had won them at the 2005 election, with Labour regaining the two seats they had lost in by-elections since 2005. There was a swing to Labour from the Conservatives of 0.8% (with Labour increasing its share of the vote by 2.5% and the Conservatives increasing by just 0.9%) The Conservatives finished with just a single MP representing a Scottish constituency.\n\nOf the 40 seats contested in Wales, the Conservatives more than doubled their seats from three to eight, taking one from the Liberal Democrats and four from Labour. Welsh nationalist party Plaid Cymru's number of seats was reduced from three to two on the new seat boundaries, but they managed to gain one seat, Arfon, from Labour. Labour did, however, regain Blaenau Gwent, which had once been Labour's safest seat in Wales until it had been taken by an Independent, Peter Law, in 2005. Overall, Labour made a net loss of 4 seats but remained the biggest party, with 26.\n\nThere were 18 seats contested in Northern Ireland. Both Irish nationalist parties, Sinn Féin and the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), held their seats. The unionist Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) (the latter in an electoral pact with the Conservatives), lost one seat each. This left the nationalist parties unchanged with eight seats, the main unionist parties with eight seats (all DUP), the Alliance with one seat and an independent unionist with one seat. It is the first time since the partition of Ireland that unionist parties failed to secure a majority of Northern Ireland's Westminster seats in a general election, and also the first time Sinn Féin obtained the largest share of the vote in Northern Ireland at a general election.\n\n\nThe election resulted in an increase in the number of MPs from ethnic minorities from 14 to 27, including the first black and Asian female Conservative MPs, Helen Grant and Priti Patel, and the first female Muslim MPs, Rushanara Ali, Shabana Mahmood and Yasmin Qureshi. This means that 4.2% of MPs are from an ethnic minority—in the 2001 Census, it was reported that ethnic minorities comprised 7.9% of the population. The number of female MPs rose to 141, an increase from 19.5% to 21.7% of all MPs, and the highest ever total; the number of female Conservative MPs rose from 18 (8.6% of all Conservatives) to 48 (15.7%).\n\nPolling after the election suggested the following demographic breakdown:\n\nIn Northern Ireland a swing of more than 20% resulted in DUP First Minister Peter Robinson losing his Belfast East seat to the Alliance Party's Naomi Long, giving Alliance its first elected MP in Westminster.\n\nSir Reg Empey, leader of the UUP/Conservative alliance (UCUNF), standing for the first time in South Antrim, lost to the DUP incumbent William McCrea. Thus both leaders of the main Unionist parties failed to win seats while the UUP for the first time has no MPs at Westminster. A few days after the election, Empey announced that he would resign before the party conference, triggering a leadership election.\n\nSylvia Hermon, Lady Hermon retained her seat in North Down, significantly increasing her percentage of the vote despite a slightly lower turnout and her defection from the UUP/Conservative alliance to stand as an independent.\n\nNew SDLP leader Margaret Ritchie, succeeding Eddie McGrady MP, won against Sinn Féin's Caitriona Ruane in South Down. All of the Sinn Féin and SDLP incumbents held their seats, although Sinn Féin's Michelle Gildernew retained her seat in Fermanagh & South Tyrone by only four votes over the Independent Unionist Unity candidate, Rodney Connor, after three recounts.\n\nMany of the MPs who were most prominently caught up in the scandal decided, or were ordered, not to stand for re-election in 2010. Among them were Margaret Moran, Elliot Morley, David Chaytor, Nicholas and Ann Winterton, Derek Conway, John Gummer, Douglas Hogg, Anthony Steen, Peter Viggers, Julie Kirkbride and her husband Andrew MacKay.\n\nWhere sitting MPs did stand for re-election after their expenses claims were criticised, there were some notable losses. Former Home Secretary Jacqui Smith lost her marginal Redditch seat, which showed a large 9.2% swing to the Conservatives. Smith had claimed expenses on a large family home in Redditch by declaring her house-share with her sister in London as her main home, which had been described as \"near fraudulent\" by the former chairman of the committee on Standards in Public life, although she had only been ordered to apologise rather than repay the money. Former Home Office minister Tony McNulty lost Harrow East to the Conservatives on an 8% swing, after repaying over £13,000 claimed on a second home, occupied by his parents, which was 8 miles away from his primary residence. Ann Keen lost Brentford and Isleworth on a 6% swing, but her husband Alan Keen retained Feltham and Heston. The couple were criticised for claiming for a second home in central London while rarely staying in their nearby constituency home.\n\nShahid Malik lost his Dewsbury seat on a 5.9% swing to the Conservatives. Malik had been required to repay some of his expense claims and, at the time of the election, was under investigation for other claims. David Heathcoat-Amory was one of only two sitting Conservatives to be defeated when he lost Wells to the Liberal Democrats by 800 votes. Heathcoat-Amory was criticised for claiming manure on expenses. Phil Hope, who repaid over £40,000 in expenses, was defeated in his Corby constituency although the swing was lower than the national average at 3.3%.\n\nHazel Blears, who had paid more than £13,000 to cover capital gains tax which she had avoided by \"flipping\" the designation of her main residence, suffered a large drop in her vote in Salford and Eccles, but was still comfortably re-elected; a 'Hazel must go' candidate won only 1.8%. Conversely, Brian Jenkins lost his Tamworth seat on a large 9.5% swing despite being described as a \"saint\" by \"The Daily Telegraph\" on account of his low expenses.\n\nPredictions of a rise in the number of successful Independents in the election as a result of the 2009 expenses scandal failed to materialise. Independents supported by the Jury Team or the Independent Network, support networks who both attempted to select and promote high quality Independents who had signed up for the so-called Nolan Principles of public life, set out in the Committee on Standards in Public Life, failed to have any significant impact. Broadcaster Esther Rantzen gathered a great deal of publicity for her campaign in Luton South constituency where the former MP Margaret Moran had stood down, but ended up losing her deposit in 4th place with 4.4% of the vote; the winner was Moran's successor as Labour candidate.\n\nThere was also a high-profile campaign over expenses directed against Speaker John Bercow, who had 'flipped' his designation of second home. An imperfectly observed convention states that the major parties do not oppose the Speaker seeking re-election; Bercow faced two main opponents in Buckingham. Independent former Member of the European Parliament John Stevens, standing on the Buckinghamshire Campaign for Democracy ticket, campaigned with a man dressed in a dolphin costume whom he called 'Flipper' and polled second with 21.4%. Former leader of the UK Independence Party Nigel Farage also fought the seat but came third in the vote with 17.4%. Bercow won with 47.3%.\n\nProblems occurred with voting at 27 polling places in 16 constituencies, and affected approximately 1,200 people. This situation was condemned by politicians of various parties. Jenny Watson, chair of the Electoral Commission, the independent body that oversees the electoral process, was forced on to television to defend preparations and procedures. The Electoral Commission announced it would be carrying out a \"thorough investigation\". Under the law in force at the 2010 election, voters had to have been handed their ballots by the 10 pm deadline; people who were waiting in queues to vote at 10 pm were not allowed to vote.\n\nIn Chester there were reports that 600 registered voters were unable to vote because the electoral roll had not been updated, while in Hackney, Islington, Leeds, Lewisham, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield long queues led to many voters being turned away and unable to vote as the deadline arrived. Some dissatisfied voters staged sit-ins to protest against what some of them had called \"disenfranchisement\". In Liverpool, higher-than-expected turnout meant several polling stations ran out of ballot papers, with defeated council leader Warren Bradley stating that some residents were unable to cast their votes. In Wyre and Preston North, a 14-year-old boy cast a vote after being sent a polling card.\n\nIn parts of Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg's Sheffield Hallam seat it was reported that students from the city's two universities were placed in separate queues from 'local' residents, who were given priority, resulting in many students being unable to cast their votes.\n\nJust days after the election Clegg spoke at a Take Back Parliament rally saying the results showed the British system is broken and needs fixing, while vowing the voices of the protesters would be heard. The rally demanded Clegg affirm his promise to push for \"democratic and proportional representation of the British public\".\n\nBecause of closure of United Kingdom airspace as a result of the Iceland volcanic eruption, potential expat voters in New Zealand were denied a vote when postal voting papers arrived too late to be returned to the UK, although Australian broadcaster SBS suggested that given the extremely tight timetabling of overseas votes, \"there is very little chance that voting papers\" [for voters outside Europe] \"will be received, let alone returned, in time to be counted.\"\n\nWhen it became clear that no party would achieve an overall majority the three main party leaders made public statements offering to discuss the options for forming the next government with the other parties.\n\nOn 11 May 2010, as coalition talks between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats seemed to be drawing to a successful conclusion, Gordon Brown announced that he was resigning as Prime Minister and also as Labour leader. He then left Downing Street, accompanied by his wife and children, driving to Buckingham Palace where he tendered his resignation to the Queen and advised her to call for David Cameron. Cameron became Prime Minister one hour after the Queen accepted Brown's resignation. In his first address outside 10 Downing Street, he announced his intention to form a coalition government, the first since the Second World War, with the Liberal Democrats. As one of his first moves, Cameron appointed Nick Clegg as Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nJust after midnight on 12 May 2010, the Liberal Democrats emerged from a meeting of their Parliamentary party and Federal Executive to announce that the coalition deal had been \"approved overwhelmingly\", meaning that David Cameron would lead a coalition government of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats.\n\nLater that day, the two parties jointly published the Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition agreement specifying the terms of the coalition deal.\n\nA film of the election was made by candidate and filmmaker John Walsh entitled \"ToryBoy The Movie\", exploring the candidate's selection process and the work that goes into an election campaign. One of the film's subjects, the British Labour Party MP Sir Stuart Bell, was later described as \"Britain's laziest MP\". The film received cinema releases in 2011 and again ahead of the 2015 general election.\n\nUK parties spent £31.1m on the campaign of which Conservatives spent 53%, the Labour Party spent 25% and the Liberal Democrats 15%. Figures from returning officers show that the average administration cost per constituency was £173,846 meaning the average cost per vote was £3.81.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855485", "title": "Tomsk Avia", "text": "Tomsk Avia\n\nTomsk Avia, LLC () was an airline based at Bogashevo Airport in Tomsk, Russia. It operated domestic passenger and cargo services and charters until 2015.\n\nThe airline was established in 1992 from the Aeroflot Tomsk division (established in 1932) and merged with Kolpashevo Air Enterprise in 1999. Formerly called Tomsk Production Aviation Amalgamation and Tomsk State Aviation Enterprise.\n\nIn April 2015, the airline's Air operator's certificate was suspended by Rosaviatsia as a result of the carrier's financial difficulties. Tomsk Avia's AOC was officially canceled in July 2015\n\nThe airline's debt had become a concern to Russian aviation authorities. The company's director was charged with 18 criminal offenses including failing to obey the court's orders regarding the debts. In March 2015, court officers seized two airports owned by the carrier, Strezhevoy Airport and Kargasok.\n\nAfter the suspension, the fleet of Antonov An-24 and Antonov An-26 aircraft was seized and sold.\n\nTomskavia operated scheduled flights to the following domestic destinations:\n\nThe Tomskavia fleet included the following aircraft in July 2012):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855487", "title": "Afleet Alex", "text": "Afleet Alex\n\nAfleet Alex (born May 9, 2002 in Florida) is an American thoroughbred race horse who, in 2005, won two of America's classic races, the Preakness Stakes and the Belmont Stakes. He is owned by the Cash Is King Stable partnership, was trained by Tim Ritchey and was ridden by Jeremy Rose. In twelve lifetime starts, Alex won eight times (six times in stakes, three times in G1 stakes), placed twice (both in G1 stakes), and came in third once (in the Kentucky Derby) over 12 starts, for lifetime earnings of $2,765,800.\n\nBred in Florida by John Martin Silvertand, Afleet Alex is out of the winning mare Maggy Hawk and counts multiple Grade 2-placed Unforgettable Max as a full brother. Maggy Hawk is by Hawkster, a world record holder on turf at a mile and a half. His maternal granddam is 1983 Demoiselle Stakes (G1) winner Qualique. Qualique was sired by Hawaii, a multiple grade one (G1) winner and marathon turf specialist. Also on his dam's side is Sir Gaylord, half-brother to Secretariat, who sired his fourth dam, Gaylord's Touch. Maggy Hawk has three foals of racing age, two runners, two winners and two stakes horses, including Afleet Alex. He was sired by Northern Afleet, a stakes winner from seven furlongs to nine furlongs, who was the son of the 1987 Canadian Horse of the Year, Afleet. Afleet was by the leading sire Mr. Prospector.\n\nAfleet Alex was foaled May 9, 2002, at John Martin Silvertand's farm in Florida. At the outset, this colt faced adversity: his mother became ill 24 hours after his birth and could no longer nurse him. She did supply him with colostrum (mother's first milk that is rich in antibodies and nutrients). Silvertrand's daughter Lauren (then nine) fed the colt from a Coors Light bottle the day after his mother became ill. He continued bottle feeding for twelve days until a nurse mare could be found. He was originally sold at auction as a yearling for $150,000. A year later the owner sold him in the Fasig-Tipton Midlantic May two-year-olds in training sale for $75,000.\n\nAfleet Alex was named after his sire, Northern Afleet, and after the son of the principal owner (Chuck Zacney), who was named Alex. In part because three children of the ownership syndicate were named Alex or Alexandra, Alex's Lemonade Stand became the ownership group's charity, to which they donated a portion of the colt's winnings. Alex's Lemonade Stand was named for Alex Scott, a girl who started to raise money for pediatric cancer research prior to her own cancer death in 2004 at the age of eight. When John Silvertand was himself diagnosed with colon cancer, the managing partner of the Afleet Alex ownership syndicate, Chuck Zacney, made the announcement public, with the consent of Alex Scott's parents, and they encouraged racetracks to host Alex's Lemonade Stand fundraising efforts during race meets, which came to include the 2005 Preakness and Belmont Stakes.\n\nConsidered an ugly duckling as a youngster, Afleet Alex turned into a handsome bay stallion who reached at maturity. While he has a commanding presence, Gainesway's sales director Michael Hermon has described him as being \"like a big Labrador.\"\n\nAs a two-year-old, Afleet Alex broke his maiden by 11 1/4 lengths on June 26, and then won an allowance race by a dozen lengths on July 12. He then won the Sanford Stakes at Saratoga on July 29 by lengths in stakes record time. \"This horse is a beast,\" said jockey Jeremy Rose. \"He's classy enough to sit off the speed and take off. I really didn't have to do much with him, other than keep him out of trouble. I've been on decent horses before, but this one is special because of the way he runs. He is so athletic and professional. He does everything you ask him, whether it is in a workout or a race. It seems he has an unlimited amount of gears; that's why I think he can easily go longer.\" He then won the G1 Hopeful Stakes, finished second in the G1 Champagne Stakes and the G1 Breeders Cup Juvenile.\n\nAfleet Alex started his three-year-old campaign by winning the listed Mountain Valley Stakes at Oaklawn Park in a fast time of 1:09.52 for six furlongs. He then finished out of the money for the only time in his career in the Rebel Stakes under jockey John R. Velazquez, and was later found to be suffering from a lung infection. He returned to win the G2 Arkansas Derby by a record eight lengths under his regular jockey, Jeremy Rose. Rose hit his colt five times - \"and I only did that because it was a million-dollar race, not because he needed it.\"\n\nComing off two strong wins and discarding his Rebel Stakes mishap, Afleet Alex was one of the favorites for the Kentucky Derby, run May 7, 2005. In the race, he finished third by less than a length to Giacomo, who was a 50-1 longshot. Rose later said that he had not given the horse the best ride of his life.\n\nTwo weeks later, Afleet Alex won the second leg of the Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing, the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico, leaving Giacomo third. In his Preakness victory, Scrappy T, who was in the lead, swung out at the top of the stretch as a result of an aggressive smack of his jockey Ramon Dominguez's whip. The horse veered into Afleet Alex's path just as he was making his move, and they clipped heels. Afleet Alex stumbled so badly that Jeremy Rose was thrown far over his neck. The horse nearly went to his knees, and his nose came within an inch of the dirt. However, he recovered and regained his momentum, drawing away from Scrappy T for a 4 length victory. \"I think my heart stopped,\" Rose said. \"I have no idea how I stayed on. I was basically hanging on in fear.\" He finished the mile and three-sixteenth distance of the Preakness in 1:55, the fastest Preakness of the past eight years, turning in one of the fastest final three-sixteenths in Preakness history.\n\nOn June 11, Afleet Alex rated behind the pace for a mile, then \"exploded\" passed Giacomo and the rest of the field in the final turn at Belmont Park to win the Belmont Stakes by seven lengths. He ran the fastest final quarter (:24) in that race since Arts and Letters in 1969. He became the 18th horse to lose the Derby but win the Preakness and Belmont. \"We expected this kind of performance,\" Ritchey said. \"I wasn't surprised he was that far back, but when he got rolling, it was a lot of fun.\" Rose said, \"I knew that if I didn't do something stupid, I was going to win this race. He's just that good.\"\n\nWhen The Blood-Horse checked back over 40 years, there was no record found of any horse other than Alex having won the Belmont Stakes and a six-furlong stakes (the Mountain Valley) in the same year.\n\nThe colt's fall campaign was derailed when he was found in late July 2005 to have a hairline fracture in his left front cannon bone, near the ankle. The fracture was discovered very early, and the prognosis was good for Afleet Alex to return to his previous level of performance. Once fully healed, the colt returned to working for the Breeder's Cup Classic, putting in two bullet works. However, Tim Ritchey decided to take the conservative path with the colt and shelved him for the year. Later in the year, avascular necrosis (the dying of tissue in the bone, creating a brittle patch) was discovered and diagnosed. The necrosis was probably due to an undetected deep bruise sustained when Afleet Alex nearly fell in the Preakness. It is believed the necrosis caused his summer condylar fracture. Tim Ritchey and Cash is King Stable announced the horse's retirement from racing on December 1, 2005.\n\nAfleet Alex was runner-up for the 2004 Eclipse Champion Two-Year-Old Colt or Gelding award and won the Florida Two-Year-Old Champion Male that year.\n\nIn the 2005 World Thoroughbred Racehorse Rankings, Afleet Alex was the World's Top Ranked Three-Year-Old Intermediate Distance Horse. He was ninth place overall, with a rating of 124 for his Preakness, sharing that spot with Deep Impact (2005 Japanese Champion Three-Year-Old Colt and Horse of the Year), Bago (2004 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe winner and 2004 Cartier Champion Three-Year-Old Male), Leroidesanimaux (2005 U.S. Champion Turf Male), and Starcraft on that ranking sheet, not far behind the top ranked horse and three-year-old. He was the 2005 Florida Champion Three-Year-Old Male and Horse of the Year.\n\nIn January 2006, he also won the Eclipse Award for 2005 Champion Three-Year-Old Male and finished second to Saint Liam in the Eclipse Award for Horse of the Year balloting. His victory in the 2005 Preakness Stakes was voted the National Thoroughbred Racing Association \"Moment of the Year.\" Cash Is King Stable received a special Eclipse Award for its contributions to Alex's Lemonade Stand.\n\nAfleet Alex entered stud in 2006 at Gainesway Farm in Lexington, Kentucky for an initial fee of $40,000. His progeny tend to have more stamina than those of the average American sire but typically need time to mature. , his fee has dropped to US $16,500 for a successful live cover breeding. Afleet Alex has sired seven grade 1 winners, including:\nAfleet Alex has sired other graded stakes winners such as:\n\nInternationally, Afleet Alex has sired Puerto Rico Champion Imported Colt and Gr.I winner Advier, Puerto Rico Gr.II winner Cuqui's Love, and the Japanese stakes winning mare Better Sweet.\n\nAfleet Alex is the damsire (maternal grandfather) of 2019 Belmont Stakes winner Sir Winston, through his graded stakes winning daughter La Gran Bailadora.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855488", "title": "Benjamin A. Smith II", "text": "Benjamin A. Smith II\n\nBenjamin Atwood Smith II (March 26, 1916September 26, 1991) was an American politician who served as a member of the United States Senate from December 1960 until November 1962.\n\nSmith, who was named for his grandfather Benjamin A. Smith, was born in Gloucester, Massachusetts to R. Russell and Grace Smith. He married Barbara M. (Mechem) of Lake Forest, Illinois and Annisquam, Mass. They had five children, sons, R. Russell Smith II and Benjamin A. Smith III, an ice hockey player and coach, and daughters, Barbara (Smith) Ramsey, Susan (Smith) Crotty, and Cathleen Smith.\n\nSmith attended the Gloucester public schools. Smith was captain of the 1933 Gloucester High School football team. He later graduated from Governor Dummer Academy and Harvard University. While at Harvard, Smith played fullback on the football team under coach Dick Harlow. At Harvard, Smith was a roommate of John F. Kennedy.\n\nSmith served in the United States Navy for four years during World War II. While he was in the Navy, Smith served in the Pacific as Commander on an anti-submarine, anti-torpedo vessel.\n\nSmith served as a member of the Gloucester School Committee, the Gloucester City Council and was a trustee of the Addison Gilbert Hospital. Smith served as Mayor of Gloucester from 1954 to 1955; however, at the time Smith was mayor, Gloucester was adhered to a Plan E form of government. The office of mayor was a ceremonial position, the mayor was a city councilor chosen by the city council. The city administration was carried out by a professional city manager.\n\nFor many years Smith was the chief executive of his family's business, the Merchants Box Company in Gloucester.\n\nAfter being elected President of the United States, John F. Kennedy resigned vacated his seat in the United States Senate on December 22, 1960. Kennedy, who had been reelected to a second Senate term of six years in 1958, advised then-Governor Foster Furcolo to appoint Smith to fill the vacated seat \"in the interest of promoting party unity.\" Critics said Smith, a close friend of the Kennedy family, was intended to be a \"seat-warmer\" until the President-elect's brother Ted Kennedy turned thirty (the minimum age provided by the U.S. Constitution for eligibility to serve in the Senate). Smith served as Senator until November 6, 1962, when Edward Kennedy, was elected in a special election.\n\nIn 1963, President Kennedy named Smith as the chairman of the U.S. delegation to the North Pacific Fisheries Conference involving the United States, the Soviet Union, Canada and Japan.\n\nSmith died after a long illness in the Addison Gilbert Hospital in Gloucester, Massachusetts and was buried in the Calvary Cemetery in Gloucester.\n\n Retrieved on 2008-01-23\n"}
{"id": "1855491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855491", "title": "Progressive Social Movement", "text": "Progressive Social Movement\n\nProgressive Social Movement (in Spanish: \"Movimiento Social Progresista\") was a political party in Peru founded in 1956. Its leaders included Santiago Agurto Calvo (general secretary), Alberto Ruiz Eldredge and the Salazar Bondy brothers. \n\nPeru went through political upheaval in 1956 when long-serving dictator Manuel A. Odría announced plans for democratic elections, resulting in a raft of political parties, some transient in nature, springing up. Those behind the formation of the MSP had initially been part of one of these groups Popular Action, but split almost immediately to form their own party. They sought support amongst urban professionals by professing an agenda that supported scientific advancement and technocracy as the cures for Peru's ills. \n\nThe MSP contested the 1962 elections, presenting Alberto Ruiz Eldredge as their Presidential candidate, but struggled for support due to the similarity of their programme to that of Popular Action and their lack of a charismatic leader in the mould of Fernando Belaúnde Terry. Many of their pro-science and technology positions had been co-opted by Belaúnde as the founding ideology of Popular Action.\n\nTorn between two wings, one sympathetic to the Cuban revolution and the other prepared to work with the new Belaúnde government, the MSP disappeared from the political scene soon after the 1962 elections as its leading members drifted to other groups including both Popular Action and opposition groups to the left. The 1968 coup that brought leftist General Juan Velasco Alvarado to power saw a number of MSP leaders return to influence even though the party had long disappeared by then.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855492", "title": "Baseball at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball had its debut as an official medal sport at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. Eight nations competed, with the preliminary phase consisting of each team playing every other team. Playoffs were then held, with the four highest ranked teams advancing. For the semifinals, the 1st place team played the 4th place team and the 2nd place team played against the 3rd place team. The winners of those semifinals competed against each other for the gold medal, with the loser getting the silver medal. The teams defeated in the semifinal played a match for the bronze medal.\n\nBaseball was an event open only to amateurs.\n\nBaseball events took place over 11 days, from July 26 to August 5. \n\n"}
{"id": "1855500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855500", "title": "Hsiung Feng I", "text": "Hsiung Feng I\n\nThe Hsiung Feng I (HF-1) (雄風一型, \"Brave Wind I\") is an anti-ship missile system developed by the National Chung-Shan Institute of Science and Technology in Taiwan ROC between 1975 and 1978 in response to the SY-1 missile being introduced into service with the opposing People's Liberation Army Navy. \n\nAs NCSIST's previous experience with anti-ship missile development was limited to experimentally fitting warheads onto MQM-33B drones, the decision was made to base the weapon on the Israeli Gabriel Mk I with necessary modifications added in order to remain competitive against the SY-1 missile, making it essentially a Taiwanese interpretation of the Gabriel Mk II (and since the Republic of China Navy did also import several sets of Gabriel Mk II system to rehabilitate three of their Allen M. Sumner class destroyers, they also stipulated the HF-I to be made interchangeable with the Israeli-made ordnance).\n\nThe system uses the Taiwanese CS/SPG-21A as a target acquisition and fire control radar. The CS/SPG-21A reportedly has a range of 37km which was later upgraded to 46km.\n\nPrior to the service entry of the Hsiung Feng II missile, it was the primary anti-ship weapon on all of the ROC Navy's frontline surface combatants, including the majority of the service's Gearing class and Allen M. Sumner class destroyers. It is currently deployed on the ROCN's littoral combatants, most notably the \"Hai Ou\" class missile boats, as well as some land based facilities. Due to it being superseded by the Hsiung Feng II on larger patrol craft and in coastal batteries, the HF-1 is being phased out of service (along with \"Hai Ou\" class FACs). The last ship to carry the missile converted to the HF-2 in early 2013. The missiles were sent back to NCSIST for decommissioning.\n\nThe IA variant was created to address deficiencies with the radar radio frequency altimeter, cooling system, and the rocket motor of the missile. The redesigned missile was designated HF-1A and entered production in 1981.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855503", "title": "Peruvian Democratic Movement", "text": "Peruvian Democratic Movement\n\nPeruvian Democratic Movement (, MDP), originally named Pradist Democratic Movement (, MDP), was a political party in Peru in 1956. The initiator of the party was Manuel Cisneros Sánchez. Manuel Prado y Ugarteche was the leader of the party. Later MDP took the name Movimiento Democrático Peruano. It governed Peru between 1956 and 1962.\n"}
{"id": "1855509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855509", "title": "United States Postal Inspection Service", "text": "United States Postal Inspection Service\n\nThe United States Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) or the Postal Inspectors, is the law enforcement arm of the United States Postal Service. Its jurisdiction is defined as \"crimes that may adversely affect or fraudulently use the U.S. Mail, the postal system or postal employees.\" The mission of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service is to support and protect the U.S. Postal Service, its employees, infrastructure, and customers by enforcing the laws that defend the nation's mail system from illegal or dangerous use.\n\nIn fiscal year 2014, USPIS had 2,376 field employees, a decline of 44.7% from fiscal year 1995. (A figure which doesn’t include headquarters staff.) In 2008, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service had 2,288 full-time personnel with the authority to make arrests and carry firearms on duty. This represented a 23.1% drop over the previous five years.\n\nThe Postal Inspection Service has the oldest origins of any federal law enforcement agency in the United States. It traces its roots back to 1772 when colonial Postmaster General Benjamin Franklin first appointed a \"surveyor\" to regulate and audit the mails. Thus, the Service's origins—in part—predate the Declaration of Independence, and therefore the United States itself.\n\nAs Franklin was appointed Postmaster General under the Second Continental Congress, his system continued.\nOne of Franklin's first acts as Postmaster General was to appoint William Goddard as the first Postal Surveyor of the newly founded American postal system, in charge of inspecting the integrity and security of postal routes, regulating post offices, and auditing their accounts. A letter from Franklin to Goddard, dated August 7, 1775, authorized a total of $170.00 for Goddard to carry out these duties, and so August 7 is recognized as the \"birthday\" of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service.\n\nIn 1801, the title of \"surveyor\" was changed to \"Special Agent\". In 1830, the Special Agents were organized into the \"Office of Instructions and Mail Depredations\". The Postal Inspection Service was the first federal law enforcement agency to use the title Special Agent for its officers. Congress changed this title to \"Inspector\" in 1880.\n\nFor some time, one of their primary duties was the enforcement of obscenity prohibitions under the Comstock Act, named after Postal Inspector Anthony Comstock.\n\nAs fact-finding and investigative agents, Postal Inspectors are sworn federal law enforcement officers who carry firearms, make arrests and serve federal search warrants and subpoenas. Inspectors work closely with U.S. Attorneys, other law enforcement agencies, and local prosecutors to investigate postal cases and prepare them for court. For example, on all international mail, Postal Inspectors work closely with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (HSI); while on domestic mail, Postal Inspectors work closely with state and local law enforcement agencies. There are approximately 1,200 Postal Inspectors stationed throughout the United States and abroad who enforce more than 200 federal laws covering investigations of crimes that adversely affect or fraudulently use the U.S. Mail and postal system.\n\nThe USPIS has responsibility to safeguard over 600,000 Postal Service employees and billions of pieces of mail transported worldwide yearly by air, land, rail, and sea.\n\nUSPIS was at one time the only investigative agency of the Postal Service; however, with the creation of the USPS Office of Inspector General in 1996, they assumed many duties previously carried out by the USPIS. The USPS OIG conducts independent audits and investigations. Audits of postal programs and operations help to determine whether the programs and operations are efficient and cost-effective. Investigations help prevent and detect fraud, waste, and misconduct and have a deterrent effect on postal crimes.\n\nThe OIG primarily took over the Postal Inspection Service's audit function, as well as fraud (against the USPS) waste and abuse.\nSince the September 11, 2001, attacks, the USPIS has also investigated several cases where ricin, anthrax, and other toxic substances were sent through the mail. Although the USPIS has a wide jurisdiction, USPIS investigations can be categorized into these seven types of investigative teams and functions:\n\n\nThe Postal Inspection Service's Technical Services Unit (TSU) provides investigative support through the use of new technology and the operations of two national communication centers known as the National Law Enforcement Control Centers (NLECC). In 2003, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement renamed their national communication center, previously known as \"Sector\" to the \"National Law Enforcement Communications Center\" (also known as NLECC). USPIS NLECC and ICE NLECC are two independent federal law enforcement radio communications centers that coincidentally share the same acronym and an almost identical name.\n\nThe U.S. Postal Inspection Service first established a crime lab in 1940. Today, the main USPS Forensic Laboratory is located in Dulles, Virginia, in a two-story, 44,000-square-foot facility. The lab is staffed by forensic scientists and technical experts and consists of four units: the Questioned Documents Unit, the Fingerprint Unit, the Physical Sciences Unit, and the Digital Evidence Unit. The laboratory is overseen by a laboratory director and each of the four units is overseen by an assistant laboratory director. There are also four satellite offices, located in New York, Chicago, Memphis, and San Francisco. In 2012, the entire U.S. Postal Inspection Service laboratory system had 65 employees (58 scientific staff and seven administrative staff), mostly based in the main Dulles lab.\n\nIn addition to maintaining a staff of postal inspectors and others, the Postal Inspection Service has a uniformed force of Postal Police Officers who are assigned to major postal facilities throughout the United States; these officers \"provide perimeter security, escort high-value mail shipments, and perform other essential protective functions, up to and including assisting Postal Inspectors in the execution of search and seizure and arrest warrants on and off government property.\" In the year 2000, the service had about 1,400 uniformed postal police officers. As of 2018 there are approximately 500 postal police officers nationwide.\n\nThe Postal Inspection Service maintains a law enforcement academy (the Career Development Unit) based in Potomac, Maryland. It is a federally accredited law enforcement academy by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Accreditation.\n\nFourteen US Postal Inspectors and Postal Police Officers have died in the line of duty. Their names have been etched on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial wall and to a Postal Inspection Service plaque at the agency's national headquarters, both located in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 2006 the Postal Inspection Service created the \"2 SMRT 4U\" campaign aimed at teenage girls, the group most targeted by online sexual predators. It established the website to educate teens about how to chat and post wisely online. The website has been rebranded NSTeens.org, but still provides educational information for teens. For its dedication to protecting children and fighting child exploitation, the United States Department of Justice honored the Postal Inspection Service with its Internet Safety Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855515", "title": "Omand's Creek", "text": "Omand's Creek\n\nOmand's Creek runs throughout Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Its surroundings vary, from prairie to box stores. It additionally runs through Omand Park and Bluestem Nature Park in the Wolseley area, into the Assiniboine River.\n\nOmand's Creek is named after John Omand (1823–1905) who farmed near the mouth of the creek for forty-seven years. Before Omand lived on the land it was known as Catfish Creek. On June 19, 1816 Cuthbert Grant and the men who were with him rested on the bank of the creek before the Battle of Seven Oaks. In 1850 the land on the west side of the creek was granted by the Hudson's Bay Company to build St. James Church and Cemetery. In 1860 a bridge was built across Omand's Creek in order to improve access to the church. A battle between the Red Lake Saulteaux and the Portage La Prairie Sioux was also fought between Sherbrook Street and Omand's Creek some time in the mid 1800s.\n\nThe Green Action Centre organizes annual cleanups in early spring. It is possible to canoe along the creek in the spring when water levels are high but it requires several portages.\n\nRecently, Omand's Creek has become associated with violent crime after several teens were robbed and held against their will under a railway bridge over the creek east of the Polo Park Shopping Centre Police speculated that the crime may have been part of a gang initiation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855516", "title": "Tank Toland", "text": "Tank Toland\n\nJohn Michael Toland (born August 31, 1973) is a former American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Tank Toland. Toland is best known for his appearances on the independent circuit with promotions such as Ring of Honor, as well as his appearances with World Wrestling Entertainment on its \"SmackDown!\" brand in 2005 to 2006 as James Dick.\n\nToland was trained at The Monster Factory and made his debut in 2000.\n\nToland wrestled in World Wrestling Entertainment's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling starting in May 2003, teaming with Chris Cage. The babyface duo won the Tag title three times. During 2005 Toland turned heel and began to team with Chad Wicks, who posed as his cousin, Chad Toland they wrestled as the Blond Bombers and on April 12, 2005 the team won the OVW Tag Team Title from the Thrillseekers (Matt Cappotelli and Johnny Jeter). Toland also went on to hold the OVW Heavy Weight Title from which he took from his former partner Chris Cage. He held it until he had to surrender it due to his first torn biceps that required surgery. While in OVW Toland was voted by the fans to be both the most popular babyface as well as most popular heel, which made him one of the major draws for the company.\n\nToland made his debut as a heel on \"WWE Friday Night SmackDown\" as James Dick along with his partner, Chad Toland who was now using the name Chad Dick on October 14, 2005 as The Dicks. Their gimmick was dressing up like chippendales and using body oil (which was really water) to spray in their baby-face opponents eyes. After The Mexicools won their 8-man tag match with their partners Road Warrior Animal and Heidenreich by defeating Paul Burchill and William Regal and MNM, The Mexicools were ambushed by the Dicks, and in the process they threw the then current WWE Cruiserweight Champion, Juventud out of the ring and laid out Super Crazy and Psicosis using two of their signature tag team finishers.\n\nOn the October 28 episode of \"SmackDown\", The Dicks appeared once again, helping MNM capture the WWE Tag Team Championship when they attacked Heidenreich before Paul Burchill was about to receive the Doomsday Device finisher. This began a brawl with all the teams as the Dicks began attacking Road Warrior Animal. This allowed MNM to hit the Snapshot on Heidenreich and win the title.\n\nOn the November 5 episode of \"Velocity\", The Dicks made their in ring debut in WWE defeating jobbers James Prentice and Kevin Antonio. On the November 25 episode of \"SmackDown\", The Dicks made their official SmackDown! debuts, defeating Heidenreich and Road Warrior Animal after blinding Road Warrior Animal with body oil.\n\nOn February 22, 2006, however, The Dicks were released from their WWE contracts. Their last match in WWE was on SmackDown which was broadcast on February 24, 2006, where The Dicks were defeated by The Boogeyman. Both men returned to Ohio Valley Wrestling, where Toland and Wicks began an angle together.\n\nIn May 2006, while still wrestling for OVW, ROH and other promotions, Toland became the head instructor for OVW/WWE's developmental amateur class. He was responsible for training new students as well as WWE contracted wrestlers that were new to the wrestling business.\n\nIn late 2006, Toland began wrestling for the Philadelphia based promotion Ring of Honor, being called \"The All Natural Superior Athlete\" Tank Toland. He made his debut at \"Suffocation\" on October 17, competing in a Four Corners Survival match against Roderick Strong, Chris Hero and Mark Briscoe. Toland wrestled several shows for ROH in 2006, his final being at \"The Chicago Spectacular: Night Two\", before taking time off from the company due to a torn biceps that required surgery.\n\nAt the \"Fifth Year Festival: Dayton\" on February 23, 2007, Toland returned to ROH after being hired by Larry Sweeney as the new personal trainer to his client, Chris Hero. In his return match, he defeated Mitch Franklin, a student from the ROH Wrestling School. He was a member of Sweeney's Sweet 'n' Sour Inc. faction. On June 27, 2008, he made his return to the faction, teaming with Shane Hagadorn.\n\nToland grew up on the beaches of Margate City, New Jersey where he is a Lieutenant lifeguard on the Beach Patrol. He attended Atlantic City High School where he was a captain of both his football and baseball teams. He was also active in both school programs and community charity work. Toland continues to stay active within the community and the support of various charities.\n\nAlong with being a professional wrestler, Toland holds multiple degrees in Exercise Physiology, Kinesiology, Teaching Health and Physical Education and has a minor in Psychology from West Chester University. Toland was a successful teacher of health and physical education before making the transition to professional wrestling. He is now back to pursuing his teaching career, working full-time as a physical education teacher at Atlantic City High School while still wrestling part-time.\n\nIn 2009, Toland got engaged to professional wrestler Jillian Fletcher, better known by her ring name Jillian Hall, whom he met when they were both training at Ohio Valley Wrestling. They have since separated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855522", "title": "Battle of Dead Buffalo Lake", "text": "Battle of Dead Buffalo Lake\n\nThe Battle of Dead Buffalo Lake was a skirmish in July 1863 in Dakota Territory between United States army forces and Santee, Yankton, Yanktonai and Teton Sioux. The Indians attempted to capture the pack train of the army and retired from the field when they were unsuccessful. \n\nThe defeat of Little Crow in the Dakota War of 1862 caused the widespread dispersion of the Santee Sioux or Eastern Dakota. More than 4,000 Santee and other Sioux congregated in the summer of 1863 in a large encampment in present-day Kidder County, North Dakota.\n\nIn June and July 1863, Brigadier general Henry Hastings Sibley led a military expedition to punish the Santee. Sibley had 2,056 men – 1,436 infantry, 520 cavalry, and 100 artillery and white and Indian scouts. On July 24, Sibley found the Sioux camp and the Battle of Big Mound ensued. The Sioux retired from the battlefield, the warriors fighting a rear guard action to protect their families for about 12 miles (20 km). As the families continued to flee toward safety across the Missouri River, the warriors paused at Dead Buffalo Lake, about two miles (3 km) northwest of present-day Dawson, North Dakota to await Sibley's advance.\n\nMany of the Santee under their leader Standing Buffalo had been reluctant fighters and appear to have avoided further conflict by fleeing northwest and eventually to Canada, rather than halt at Dead Buffalo Lake. The remaining Santee, Yankton, and Yanktonai whose best known leader was Inkpaduta, were joined by about 650 Hunkpapa and Blackfoot (Lakota) Teton warriors. This brought the number of Indian warriors up to 1,600, according to one estimate. Sitting Bull was among the Teton reinforcements.\n\nSibley marched to Dead Buffalo Lake on July 26 and about noon camped near the shores of the small lake. Mounted Sioux appeared shortly on the hills surrounding the lake and Sibley's camp, threatening an attack. Sibley advanced his artillery, two companies of infantry, and his pioneers to a position about 600 yards in advance of his camp and opened fire at long range on the Indians. The Indians withdrew to a safe distance.\n\nThe objective of the Sioux seems to have been to capture the army's pack train of horses and mules and immobilize Sibley. They first attempted an assault on Sibley's left flank, but were checked by a company of mounted rangers and two companies of infantry. The Indians then disappeared into the hills. Several muleteers in Sibley's camp assumed the engagement was over and took the livestock out of the defense lines to graze. The Sioux re-appeared in force on the right flank and made another effort to capture the stock, but were repulsed in a brief close-quarter fight by two companies of cavalry and 6 companies of infantry. Sitting Bull, armed with only a whip, was said to have counted coup on a muleteer and captured his mule. Failing in their mission to capture most of the horses and mules, the Indians then retired from the field and the battle was over.\n\nOne soldier was killed. The soldiers estimated they had killed 15 Sioux. The number of Indian combatants and Indian casualties were often overestimated by the army.\n\nSibley continued his pursuit of the Sioux the following day, attempting to catch them before they could cross the Missouri River. On July 28 he engaged them again at the Battle of Stony Lake.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855533", "title": "TESIS Aviation Enterprise", "text": "TESIS Aviation Enterprise\n\nTESIS Aviation Enterprise was a cargo airline based in Moscow, Russia. It operated domestic and international charter cargo flights from Moscow to destinations including China, India, United Arab Emirates and Turkey. It also flies passenger charters around the world. It was established and started operations in November 1992. Its main bases were Domodedovo International Airport, Moscow and Irkutsk Airport. The Russian aviation authority is suspending flights effective 17 October 2008. The airline has not been taken over by Russian aviation fuel supplier TOAP that has blamed the credit crisis for the failure of the plan. It has then suspended operations with its two remaining B747-200F freighters on October 17, 2008.\n\nAs of August 2007, TESIS Aviation Enterprise operated scheduled cargo flights to the following destinations:\n\n\nThe TESIS fleet consisted of the following aircraft (at August 2006):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855539", "title": "List of highways numbered 2A", "text": "List of highways numbered 2A\n\nHighway 2A may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855545", "title": "Quink", "text": "Quink\n\nQuink (a portmanteau from 'quick' and 'ink') is a fountain pen ink developed by the Parker Pen Company. It was introduced in 1931 and has remained in production ever since.\n\nIn 1928, under the direction of Kenneth Parker, the Parker Pen Company set out to develop a new and improved fountain pen ink. Inferior inks had long been the main cause of clogged fountain pens, yet popular ink formulations had remained unchanged in decades. Research for the project was initially outsourced to Miner Laboratories of Chicago. In August 1930 one of the lead chemists, Galen Sayler, was hired directly and put to work in a small laboratory at company headquarters in Janesville, Wisconsin.\n\nQuink was heavily advertised, and an immediate success. According to Kenneth Parker's personal journal, Quink production began on March 17, 1931, and $89,000 worth had been shipped by October 22 -- more than twice the company's expectations and an excellent return on the $68,000 spent on its development. Quink was introduced as a general-purpose ink, safe for use in all fountain pens. It remains in production, with minor changes in formulation. \n\nA popular misconception is that the ink was invented by a Filipino, Francisco Quisumbing, and takes its name from 'Quisumbing Ink'. Although this apocryphal tale appears on numerous websites, no is ever cited. The accounts uniformly identify the supposed inventor as \nFrancisco Quisumbing, a Filipino botanist who studied in both the Philippines and the US, gaining a PhD in Plant Taxonomy, Systematics and Morphology from the University of Chicago in 1923. What biographical information that can be found is incomplete and unreliable. There is no indication that such a person ever worked for Parker. \n\nThere was a company called Quisumbing Ink Products in the Philippines, unconnected to Parker, founded by a chemical engineer named Francisco A. Quisumbing. The milestones of Quisumbing's documented career are close enough to those recounted in the apocryphal accounts that it is probable that they refer, with differing degrees of accuracy, to the same man. The real Francisco A. Quisumbing was born in 1893 and received his B. Agr. in 1914 and his M. S. in 1918, both from the University of the Philippines. He was a Fellow of the University of the Philippines at Columbia University in New York from 1918 to 1921, receiving his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1921. He returned to the Philippines to teach as Professor of Industrial Chemistry at the University of the Philippines from 1922 to 1934. In 1923, he started the Quisumbing Ink Products company, and in 1934, founded the Quisumbing School of Technology. According to a book published in 1960, Quisumbing inks then enjoyed an exclusive contract to supply all branches of the Philippine government.\nQuink was later manufactured in the Philippines under license from Parker, and the bottles were labelled accordingly..\n\nThe success of Quink lay in its useful features: it had the desired quality of ink flow, it resisted water and molding, it was non-corrosive, and it was claimed to be quick-drying. From the beginning it was advertised as containing a \"secret\" additive which purportedly dissolved sediment and reduced clogging. In 1942 this additive was given the trademarked name \"Solv-X\". \n\nQuink was developed and introduced when the \nDuofold was Parker's flagship line, but the Duofold's successor, the Vacumatic was already under development and was in full production by 1933. Vacumatics held their ink supply directly within their celluloid barrels, so Quink was formulated accordingly.\n\nQuink is not to be confused with two iterations of a special ink formulated exclusively for use in the Parker 51. This ink was highly alkaline and while water-based, also included a substantial amount of isopropyl alcohol. It was released in 1941 as \"51\" ink, along with the Parker 51 pen; in 1947 it was made somewhat less corrosive, and renamed \"Superchrome\". Parker was careful to print prominent warnings on caps, labels, and boxes that the ink could only be used in the 51 (and, later, its economy version, the 21), and would damage any other pen.\n\nPrior to the full public introduction of the Parker 51 in 1941, selected market testing of the new pen was carried out, starting in 1939. Since the 51 and its special ink had been designed together as a complete system, the new ink was given limited release in tandem with the market tests under the name \"Double Quink\". By all evidence, Double Quink was not advertised to the general public, and the name was dropped once the 51 went on general sale. Actual surviving examples of Double Quink bottles would appear to be vanishingly rare: not a single photo appears in the Shepherds' authoritative and officially-sponsored Parker 51 monograph, despite the researchers' access to Parker's own archives as well as collections worldwide.\n\nAccording to fountain pen enthusiasts, Parker Quink is generally considered to be \"safe fountain pen ink\"; this means that it should not stain or clog fountain pens very easily.\n\nThe use of fountain pens gradually decreased during the second half of the 20th century. Many collectors and enthusiasts continue to use the Parker 51 pen in the 21st century, with a limited edition of the model (available in two colors, \"Vista Blue\" and black) released by Parker in 2002. As part of the 2002 product revival, Parker promoted its quick-drying ink as the ideal accompaniment for the Parker 51.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855557", "title": "Milne Bay", "text": "Milne Bay\n\nMilne Bay is a large bay in Milne Bay Province, south-eastern Papua New Guinea. More than long and over wide, Milne Bay is a sheltered deep-water harbor accessible via Ward Hunt Strait. It is surrounded by the heavily wooded Stirling Range to the north and south, and on the northern shore, a narrow coastal strip, soggy with sago and mangrove swamps.\nThe bay is named after Sir Alexander Milne.\n\n\nDuring World War II, the area was the site of the Battle of Milne Bay in 1942 and by late 1943 it became the major support base for the New Guinea campaign through the development of Finschhafen as an advanced base after that area was secured in the Huon Peninsula campaign. By January 1944 about 140 vessels were in harbor due to congestion at the facilities. Congestion was relieved by opening of a port at Finschhafen and extensive improvements at Milne Bay. Malaria was a major problem in New Guinea and Milne Bay was particularly hard hit with incidents of the disease hitting at a rate of 4,000 cases per 1,000 troops per year and estimated 12,000 man-days a month lost time.\n\nThere were three planes ditched off the island in 1943, a P-38H Lightning, a P-38F Lightning, and a B-24D Liberator \"The Leila Belle\" (MIA).\n\nThe HMPNGS \"Seeadler\" fired upon a Vietnamese fishing vessel on December 23, 2016. Her captain died, and the poacher sank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855560", "title": "Givenchy", "text": "Givenchy\n\nGivenchy (, ) is a French luxury fashion and perfume house. It hosts the brand of haute couture clothing, accessories and Parfums Givenchy, perfumes and cosmetics. The house of Givenchy was founded in 1952 by designer Hubert de Givenchy and is a member of Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture et du Pret-a-Porter. It is owned by luxury conglomerate LVMH. From 2 May 2017 until 10 April 2020, its artistic director was Clare Waight Keller, the first woman to hold that position.\n\nIn 1952, Hubert de Givenchy and Javani Robert Durfy founded his own luxury house and launched a new collection \"Les Séparables\" with some floaty skirts and puffy blouses made from raw cotton.\n\nGivenchy achieved critical acclaim with Vogue magazine praising his \"wonderful first collection\"14. The collection included the \"Bettina Blouse\" a white shirt named in honour of Bettina Graziani, which was then painted in one of René Gruau's works.\n\n\"The New York Times\" magazine published an article entitled \"A Star Is Born\" and l’Album du Figaro also wrote a feature stating that \"In one night, Hubert de Givenchy became one of fashion’s most famous children with his first collection.\"\n\nModels such as Suzy Parker and Dorian Leigh became muses of the house.\n\nIn terms of innovation, he used ‘shirting’, a raw cotton similar to pattern paper, to create his chic and casual collections.\n\nIn 1954, Hubert de Givenchy presented the first shirt dress (which later evolved in to a sack dress in 1957). He was the first high fashion designer to create a luxury ready-to-wear clothing line, called \"Givenchy Université\", which was produced in Paris using machinery imported from the United States. Before he was able to sign for this new collection, Hubert de Givenchy bought all the shares of his fashion house back from Louis Fontaine.\n\nIn 1956, both Cristóbal Balenciaga and Hubert de Givenchy presented their collection in New York during a charity gala in aid of the American hospital in Paris.\n\nIn 1957, the House of Balenciaga introduced the sack dress for the first time. In 1958, Cristóbal Balenciaga launched the ‘Baby Doll’ line, along with the coats line ‘Ballon’.\n\nThe Givenchy studio moved to number 3, Avenue George V in Paris—opposite Balenciaga’s—in 1959. The same year, Givenchy and Balenciaga announced that their respective collections would be shown to the press one month after their presentation to the buyers, in order to avoid any dictate.\n\nIn 1969, Hubert de Givenchy launched his fashion line for men, \"Gentleman Givenchy\". The boutique was opened in November on Avenue George V. Hubert de Givenchy later introduced short dress.\n\nOn the advice of Cristóbal Balenciaga, Givenchy developed his licences in the 1970s, in order to protect the Haute Couture collections. In 1971, he designed a collection of embroidered coats in honour of Georges Braque and Joan Miró.\n\nDuring this period, the House of Givenchy diversified its activities to create shoes, jewellery, ties, tableware, upholstery and kimonos. Hubert de Givenchy was chosen to design the interior of Hilton hotels around the world, and even a car (the Continental Mark V).\n\nIn 1976, Givenchy Inc. (offices and showrooms) arrived on New York’s Fifth Avenue.\n\nLater, Hubert de Givenchy was elected the personality of the year 1979 and the most elegant man of the year by The Best Magazine.\n\nIn 1982, a retrospective presided by Audrey Hepburn was organized by the Fashion Institute of Technology of New York.\n\nNext year Hubert de Givenchy is named « chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur » and in 1985, Jacques Lang, the French minister of the Culture, gave him the Oscar dedicated to the art of elegance during a celebration at the Opera in Paris.\n\nIn 1988, Givenchy joined LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton.\n\nIn 1991, a retrospective celebrated at the Galliera Palace the forty years of the fashion house. Hubert de Givenchy left the company in 1995. He was succeeded by some British young creators such as John Galliano, Alexander McQueen and Julien MacDonald. From December 2003 to 2006, the British cutter Ozwald Boateng is named as the artistic director of the Givenchy men's division.\n\nJohn Galliano succeeded Givenchy upon his retirement but was in turn promoted to Christian Dior less than two years later, prompting the hiring of Alexander McQueen. In 2001, designer Julien Macdonald was appointed Artistic Director for the women's lines, which consist of haute couture and ready-to-wear.\n\nThe reins for both collections were passed on to Riccardo Tisci in 2005 when he was named artistic director of womenswear. Riccardo Tisci has proposed to the House his own style and influences. By changing the house codes, Riccardo Tisci adds some dark and sensual romanticism touch. Extending the chromatic palette of the house, flashy colors, such as the baby blue and the red blood, metal, wildlife and floral prints, he designs an uncluttered, structured and graphic silhouette.\n\nPhilippe Fortunato, the former chief operating of LVMH Moet Hennessy Vuitton SA – China, is the current Chief Operating at Givenchy.\n\nGivenchy designs have been worn by a number of celebrities on red carpet occasions, including Rooney Mara at the 2012 Academy awards. Also responsible for working with Madonna designing her costumes for her Sticky & Sweet tour as well as the 2012 Super Bowl Halftime Show.\n\nIn 2016, Tisci launched a sportswear collaboration with Nike called NikeLab x RT: Training Redefined aimed at Olympic athletes for the 2016 Summer Olympics as everyday gym users.\n\nIn February 2017, Riccardo Tisci announced his amicable desparture from Givenchy.\n\nThe House of Givenchy announced the appointment of Clare Waight Keller as Artistic Director, effective 2 May 2017. Waight Keller took on all creative responsibilities, including Women’s and Men’s Ready-to-wear and accessories collections, as well as Haute Couture. Meghan Markle wore a gown from Claire Waight Keller at her wedding to Prince Harry on 19 May 2018.\n\nAfter successfully running three consecutive combined shows under the assistance of Keller, the brand announced to bring back the menswear collection calendar for the autumn/winter 2019 season.\n\nOn the 10th of April 2020, Keller announced that she would no longer be the creative director of the house.\n\nWaight Keller was the first woman to lead Givenchy since it was established in 1952. After founder Hubert de Givenchy retired in 1995, the house saw a revolving door of designers: John Galliano, Alexander McQueen and Julien MacDonald. Tisci took over the label in 2005, putting it back on the design map with his daring, Goth-tinged fashions during a stellar 12-year tenure.\n\nAmong Waight Keller’s key accomplishments was bringing couture back to the runway; Tisci had opted for static presentations, or sprinkling it into his men’s shows — and establishing Givenchy as the go-to brand for Markle’s dressier occasions, including Royal Ascot. She also continued the brand’s momentum on the red carpet.\n\nThe house of Givenchy and Clare Waight Keller announce the end of their collaboration on 10 April 2020.\n\nThe most famous ambassador of the brand was Audrey Hepburn in films such as \"Sabrina\" (for which Edith Head claimed the Academy Award), \"How to Steal a Million\", \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\", and \"Charade\".\n\nIn 1953, Audrey Hepburn and Hubert De Givenchy met by the intermediary of Gladys de Segonzac in a way to create her costumes for \"Sabrina\" by Billy Wilder. As Gladys de Segonzac had organized the meeting with ‘Miss Hepburn’, the fashion designer thought that he was going to receive Katharine Hepburn. Dressed in a pink and white gingham privateer, a T-shirt and a gondolier hat, the British actress received some prototypes of the future collection. Audrey Hepburn decided to wear Givenchy clothes on and off the screen, such as in \"Sabrina\" (1954), \"Love in the Afternoon\" (1957), \"Funny Face\" (1957), \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\" (1961), \"Charade\" (1963), \"Paris When It Sizzles\" (1963), \"How to Steal a Million\" (1965) and \"Bloodline\" (1979).\n\nBeginning as a client, she became the muse of the house for forty years, in many classic films. In 1961, Audrey Hepburn installed the reputation of the house by wearing the famous \"little black dress\" in \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\".\n\nIn 1957 Givenchy created a floral aldehyde fragrance, \"L`Interdit\", for Miss Hepburn’s sole use.\n\nGivenchy's other famous patrons include Empress Farah Pahlavi, Gloria Guinness and Marella Agnelli, as well as the Guinness, Grimaldi, Rothschild, and Kennedy families. Jacqueline Kennedy famously wore Givenchy clothes to the funeral of John F. Kennedy.\n\nGivenchy attracted many other celebrities, including the likes of Lauren Bacall, Babe Paley, Michael Norman, Greta Garbo, Elizabeth Taylor, Marlène Dietrich, Jacqueline Kennedy-Onassis, Beyoncé Knowles, Princess Grace of Monaco and even Wallis Simpson, for whom he created some special garment bags to keep the duchess’s orders from being viewed by other clients. The collection of attire (dress, coat, perfume, etc.) furnished for Simpson would later become known as ‘blue Wallis’.\n\nToday, Givenchy dresses many Hollywood stars, including Cate Blanchett, Emma Stone, Lady Gaga, Julianne Moore, Julia Roberts, Rooney Mara, and others. In May 2019, Givenchy confirmed that singer, songwriter, actress, model, and record producer Ariana Grande would be the new face of its Fall and Winter campaign that was unveiled that July.\n\n\nThe company's operations are divided between: \"Europe accounts for 42 percent of the business, China 18 percent, Asia-Pacific 14 percent, America 12 percent, the Middle East 7 percent, Japan 4 percent, and the rest of the world 3 percent.\"\n\nThe Fall 2010 collection from Givenchy and Riccardo Tisci featured a transgender person for the first time. Lea T, a Brazilian model, was the designer's personal assistant for a number of years. About the decision, Tisci said, \"She's always been very feminine: superfragile, very aristocratic. She is part of the family.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1855576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855576", "title": "Pucci", "text": "Pucci\n\nPucci may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855578", "title": "Guangzhou University", "text": "Guangzhou University\n\nGuangzhou University (GU; ) is a state university in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province, China.\n\nThe university is made up of two campuses. The major campus is located in Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center (HEMC, geographically called Xiaoguwei Island), covering a total area of 131.7 hectares, with a building space of 596,000 square meters. The other campus is located in downtown (GuiHuaGang) of Guangzhou, covering 20 hectares.\n\nThe university is dually affiliated to Guangzhou Municipal Government and Guangdong Provincial Government. The funding for the university is subject to Guangzhou Municipal Government.\n\nGuangzhou University was reestablished in July 2000 by the Chinese Ministry of Education. It was a merger of five tertiary institutions previously known as Guangzhou Normal University (广州师范学院), South China Institute of Construction (华南建设学院), Guangzhou University (广州大学), Guangzhou Junior Teachers' College (广州高等专科学校), and Guangzhou Institute of Education (广州教育学院).\nThe university is fully committed to consolidating and expanding its undergraduate program, graduate programs and international students program. The university comprises 27 schools (department). It offers 87 undergraduate programs with coverage of ten disciplinary fields, including philosophy, history, literature, law, pedagogy, art, science, engineering, management and economics. Currently, the university is authorized to run 3 PhD programs with 25 grade-2 subjects, 26 graduate programs with 95 grade-2 subjects. In addition, the university offers 9 professional graduate programs in 36 fields, including pedagogy, engineering, physical education, art and international Chinese language teaching.\n\nThe university has a teaching and research staff of 1475, including two academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and one academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering, 290 full-time professors and 604 full-time associate professors. The number of the full-time graduates and undergraduates is over 23,000.\n\nThe university is actively undertaking the national and provincial research programs, such as national “973”and “863” projects. It has established more than 30 research institutes or centers specializing in a wide range of subjects, including Interdisciplinary Research Center, Earthquake Engineering Research Test Center, Human Right Research Center, Research Institute for Computer Science & Software etc.\nInternational exchange and cooperation have always been a priority work of the university. Up to 2011, the university has established the partnership with more than 100 overseas institutions. The university is available for international students to study Chinese and apply for degree study. It also enrolls students from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan as well.\n\nIn the new age, the university is engaged in making a contribution to the development of Guangzhou, Guangdong Province as well as that of China. The goal of the university is to mold itself as a comprehensive university with a unique characteristic and ranks in a leading position among the universities of similar type.\n\nAs a manifestation of GU's core spirit, the Campus Culture of GU guarantees a good academic and cultural atmosphere on campus. To promote the construction of quality education, cultural activities on campus are organized on the basis of perfect combinations between science and humanity, between high taste cultural activities and students’ comprehensive quality cultivation.\n\nBased on the principles of Students Art Troupe, GU carries on various cultural activities, including Culture and Art Festivals on Campus, Chinese Classics Reading, Classic Movies Appreciation, and Elegant Art Appreciation. In addition, the university organizes various contests including Debate, Image Design, Career Design, Singing and Dancing, Hosting, etc., and builds a series of school cultural activity brands.\n\nThere are now eighty student associations with more than 12,000 members at GU. These associations cover a range of subjects including humanities, technology, public service, arts, and P.E. etc. Each year, there is a cultural month reserved for activities of the associations in which student associations play an important role in moral education, science enlightenment, career guidance, and volunteer service.\n\nThe new Guangzhou University is named after the third biggest city in China (Guangzhou) and was established in July 2000. It is actively undertaking the national and provincial research programs in recent years, such as national “973”and “863” projects. The University Ranking on Academic Performance publications, authored by scholars from the Middle East Technical University in Turkey and co-contributed by European scholars from France, Netherlands and the United Kingdom ranked Guangzhou University at#153 out of the 183 nationally China and #1516 in ranking globally out of all the places of higher institutions in that category. In the new age, the university is engaged in making a contribution to the community. The goal of the university is to mold itself as a comprehensive university with a characteristic and ranks in a leading position among the universities of similar type.\n\nWhile the undergraduate programs remain the dominant focus of its operation, GU also runs postgraduate programs. It is also developing its vocational and technical higher education programmes. The university comprises 20 schools featuring academic programs ranging from the sciences to the humanities. Unfortunately, because GU is still considered a relatively new University in China, many colleges around the world including colleges in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. do not fully accept GU courses as a course equivalency to their own. Recognition of its courses, a student's diploma, degree and course credit by foreign academic institutions is still ongoing subject to current review and future agreements between Guangzhou University and foreign academic institutions. Full recognition of Guangzhou University's course equivalency by foreign academic institutions will not go into full effect until to the year 2016 or later.\n\nThe university run 42 postgraduate programs and 62 undergraduate programs in eight fields of study including Literature, Science, Engineering, Economics, Management, Law, Education and History.\n\nSchool of Architecture and Urban Planning\n\nSchool of Civil Engineering\nSchool of Business\nSchool of Law\nSchool of Public Administration\n\nSchool of Education (Teachers’ School)\n\nSchool of Humanities\nSchool of Journalism and Communication\n\nSchool of Foreign Studies\nSchool of Music and Dance\n\nSchool of Fine Art and Artistic Design\n\nSchool of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering\nSchool of Mathematics and Information Sciences\n\nSchool of Physics and Electronic Engineering\nSchool of Geographic Sciences\n\nSchool of Electro-Mechanical Engineering\nSchool of Computer Science & Education Software\nSchool of Life Science\n\nSchool of Environmental Engineering\nSchool of Tourism (Sino-French School of Tourism)\nSchool of Physical Education\nSchool of Politics and Civic Education\nSchool of Economic and Statistics\n\nSchool of International Education\n\nSchool of Teacher Training\n\nSchool of Basic Education\n\nSchool of Modern Industry\n\nCIBT International College\n\nWesleyan College\n\nGU has a staff of 2,588 including one academic scholar from the Chinese Academy of Science, one academic scholar from the China Institute of Engineering, four academic scholars employed on a part-time basis, 20 supervisors of doctoral students, 130 full-time professors, 567 associate professors; of whom all 100 are Ph.D holders, 32 who have been awarded the state Council Special Allowances, 14 provincial and municipal level experts. The University's current full-time postgraduates, undergraduates and diploma students number 17,000. The University enrolls students mainly from Guangdong Province and Guangzhou, but also admits students from 11 other provinces, Hong Kong, Macao and also from overseas.\n\nThe University has 57 research institutes and centers specializing in wide range of fields including the Institute of Educational Software, the Earthquake Engineering Research and TestCenter, the Institute of Educational Sciences, and the Institute of Advanced Manufacturing Technology.\n\nGU has also established a number of cooperative educational establishments including the College of Textile and Garment, the College of Urban Construction Engineering, the College of Technology and Trade, Sontian College, Hua Ruan Software College, the School of Municipal Works and Construction. GU has established partnerships in a wide range of disciplines with universities and academic institutions of the United States, Australia, France, Russia, Italy, South Korea, Japan, Sweden, and the Chinese-speaking region including Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nWith a history of over 10 years, and graduate programs since 2000, Guangzhou University has produced a large number of qualified talent for China and for Guangdong Province's social, economic, and technological development. The construction of the Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center on Xiaoguwei Island (小谷圍島) is in progress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855579", "title": "Types of social groups", "text": "Types of social groups\n\nIn the social sciences, types of social groups refers to the categorization of relationships identified within social groups based on the various group dynamics that define social organization. In sociological terms, groups can fundamentally be distinguished from one another by the extent to which their nature influence individuals and how. A \"primary group\", for instance, is a small social group whose members share close, personal, enduring relationships with one another (e.g. family, childhood friend). By contrast, a \"secondary group\" is one in which interactions are more impersonal than in a primary group and are typically based on shared interests, activities, and/or achieving a purpose outside the relationship itself (e.g. coworkers, schoolmates).\n\nFour basic types of groups have traditionally been recognized: primary groups, secondary groups, collective groups, and categories.\n\nThe distinction between primary and secondary groups serves to identify between two orders of social organization.\n\nA \"primary group\" is typically a small social group whose members share close, personal, enduring relationships in which one exchanges implicit items, such as love, caring, concern, animosity, support, etc. These groups are often long-lasting and marked by members' concern for one another, where the goal is actually the relationship themselves rather than achieving another purpose. In general, they are also psychologically comforting to the individuals involved, providing a source of support. As such, primary groups play an important role in the development of personal identity, and can be understood as tight circles composed of people such as family, long-term romances, crisis-support group, church group, etc.\n\nThe concept of the primary group was first introduced in 1909 by sociologist Charles Cooley, a member of the famed Chicago school of sociology, through a book titled \"Social Organization: A Study of the Larger Mind\". Although Cooley had initially proposed the term to denote the first intimate group of an individual's childhood, the classification would later extend to include other intimate relations.\n\nAdditionally, three sub-groups of primary groups can be also identified:\n\n\nA \"secondary group\" is a relatively larger group composed of impersonal and goal-oriented relationships, which are often temporary. These groups are often based on achieving a common purpose outside of the relationship itself and involve much less emotional investment. Since secondary groups are established to perform functions, individual roles are more interchangeable, thus members are able to leave and outgroup are able to join with relative ease. Such groups can be understood to be ones in which individuals exchange explicit commodities (e.g. labour for wage, service for payment, etc.). Examples include study groups, sports teams, schoolmates, attorney-client, doctor-patient, coworkers, etc.\n\nCooley had made the distinction between primary and secondary groups, by noting that the term for the latter refers to relationships that generally develop later in life, likely with much less influence on one’s identity than primary groups.\n\nA \"reference group\" is a group to which an individual or another group is compared, used by sociologists in reference to any group that is used by an individual as a standard for evaluating themselves and their own behavior. More simply, as explained by Thompson and Hickey (2005), such groups are ones \"that people refer to when evaluating their [own] qualities, circumstances, attitudes, values and behaviors.\"\n\nReference groups are used in order to evaluate and determine the nature of a given individual or other group's characteristics and sociological attributes. It is the group to which the individual relates or aspires to relate him or herself psychologically. It becomes the individual's frame of reference and source for ordering his or her experiences, perceptions, cognition, and ideas of self. It is important for determining a person's self-identity, attitudes, and social ties. It becomes the basis of reference in making comparisons or contrasts and in evaluating one's appearance and performance.\n\nReference groups provide the benchmarks and contrast needed for comparison and evaluation of group and personal characteristics. Robert K. Merton hypothesized that individuals compare themselves with reference groups of people who occupy the social role to which the individual aspires.[Merton] developed a theory of the reference group (i.e., the group to which individuals compare themselves, which is not necessarily a group to which those individuals belong), and elaborated on the concepts of in-group and out-group. For any group of people there are always other groups whom they look upon to and aspire to be like them.Such groups act as a frame of reference to which people always refer to evaluate their achievements, their role performance, aspirations and ambitions. A reference group can be either from a membership group or non-membership group. An example of a reference group being used would be the determination of affluence. An individual in the U.S. with an annual income of $80,000, may consider himself affluent if he compares himself to those in the middle of the income strata, who earn roughly $32,000 a year. If, however, the same person considers the relevant reference group to be those in the top 0.1% of households in the US, those making $1.6 million or more, then the individual's income of $80,000 would make him or her seem rather poor.\n\nA \"collective\" is a large group of individuals whose relationships to one another are loosely formed, spontaneous, and brief. Members are generally connected through performing similar actions or possessing similar outlooks. As they only exist for a very brief period of time, it is very easy for an outgroup member to become an ingroup member and vice versa. Examples of collectives include audiences to a show, bystanders, people at the park, etc.\n\n\"Categories\" are characterized by an aggregate of individuals who share something in common, but only become groups when their similarities have social implications. Categories can appear to be higher in entitativity and essentialism than primary, secondary, and collective groups. This group is generally the largest type of such, where members can be either permanently or temporarily ingroup. Categories can include individuals with the same ethnicity, gender, religion, or nationality. For example, Torontonians, women, and gamers can all be characterized as \"categories\".\n\nCampbell (1958) famously defines \"entitativity\" as the extent to which collections of individuals are perceived to be a group. The degree of entitativity that a group has is influenced by whether a collection of individuals experience the same fate, display similarities, and are close in proximity. If individuals believe that a group is high in entitativity, then they are likely to believe that the group has unchanging characteristics that are essential to the group, known as essentialism. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855583", "title": "Matthew 1:14", "text": "Matthew 1:14\n\nMatthew 1:14 is the fourteenth verse of the first chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse is part of the section where the genealogy of Joseph, the father of Jesus, is listed.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 1:14\n\nThis part of the genealogy falls in the period after the Babylonian captivity. All four people mentioned here are only mentioned in this passage and are not mentioned in any other source. They are absent from the genealogy in Luke 3.\n\nRobert H. Gundry contents that Matthew did not know the ancestors of Jesus during the period and instead essentially made them up. He was copying the early list from the Old Testament and Gundry sees the author of Matthew turning to this same source for some plausible ancient names but they were modified to make the copying less obvious.\n\nHe sees the name Azor being a shortened from the priest Azariah. Mentioned just above Zariah is Zadok, a priest from King David's time. Matthew adds him as the next name. Zadok's son is Achimaas and this is shortened to Achim. Eliezer is also a figure from 1 Chronicles and this name is turned into Eliud. \n\nThe name Zadok appears twice in the Old Testament, once for the prominent priest of King David and once as an incidental figure mentioned as the grandfather of Jotham, an individual who was himself mentioned at . While it is almost certainly a coincidence, W. D. Davies and Dale Allison also note that the founder of the Qumran community was also named Zadok. This figure lived sometime between 240 B.C. and 170 B.C., and is thus in approximately the correct time period.\n"}
{"id": "1855591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855591", "title": "Saratov Airlines", "text": "Saratov Airlines\n\nSaratov Airlines (Saratov Airlines Joint Stock Company, , \"Saratovskiye avialinii\") was a Russian airline headquartered in Saratov and based at Saratov Tsentralny Airport. The company ceased operating on 30 May 2018 after the Russian aviation authority refused to renew its operating certificate.\n\nSaratov Airlines was founded in 1931. It was called \"Saratov United Air Squad\" and was a part of Aeroflot. Until late 2013 the airline was branded \"Saravia\" ().\n\nIn December 2013, Saratov Airlines became the first Russian operator of Embraer E-Jets, with the arrival of two Embraer 195 aircraft.\n\nOn 14 October 2015, the Russian aviation authorities sanctioned Saratov Airlines after a violation of security rules. The airline was therefore no longer allowed to operate flights to destinations outside of Russia from 26 October 2015. However, by May 2016 the airline had resumed international charter services.\n\nIn July 2017, it was announced that the airline had signed a letter of intent to lease six Irkut MC-21-300s at the MAKS Air Show in Moscow scheduled to be delivered from 2022–2025.\n\nOn 20 March 2018, the Russian Ministry of Transport ordered the suspension of all Saratov Airline flights following the investigation into the Saratov Airlines Flight 703 crash. The airline responded with a message on its website stating that it \"continues to carry out flights on Embraer-190 and Yak-42 aircraft\". Later in the day it emerged that the Ministry of Transport had shortened the period of validity of the airline's operating certificate to 27 April 2018; if by this date violations are not addressed the permit will not be extended. On 2 April the Russian aviation authority called on the airline to voluntarily cease operating due to its management's \"unprecedented and irresponsible\" attitude towards ensuring the safety of passengers and crew. One of the reasons for this reaction was the airline's submission of a list of current planes and crew which included the aircraft that crashed and crew members who died in February.\n\nOn 10 April 2018, it was announced that Saratov Airlines planned to re-brand itself as \"Ivolga Airlines\". The reasons for this action are various: some experts say this is due to the air crash that occurred in February, by taking the idea from S7 Airlines and Nordavia, that re-branded after air crashes in 2006 and 2009, respectively; some experts say that it is because the airline now flies from hubs other than Saratov, such as Moscow-Domodedovo and Krasnoyarsk-Yemelyanovo. However, the envisioned rebranding never took place.\n\nOn 17 May 2018, the Russian aviation authority ordered the airline to stop selling tickets by the end of May. Initially, the company stated that it would permanently cease operations on 31 May. However, later it removed this information from its website, resumed selling tickets, and told the media that it expects its operating certificate to be re-issued no later than 27 May. This however, did not happen and the airline ceased all flights and ticket sales on 30 May 2018. The airline continues to operate the only airport in the Saratov Oblast.\n\nAs of May 2018, Saratov Airlines operated the following domestic scheduled and international charter passenger flights:\n\n\n\n\nAs of May 2018, shortly before Saratov Airlines ceased operations, the fleet included the following aircraft:\n\nOn 11 February 2018, Saratov Airlines flight 703, disappeared from radar and crashed less than ten minutes after takeoff. The flight, operated using an An-148 and scheduled to depart from Moscow's Domodedovo airport to the Russian city of Orsk, had 71 people on board; 65 passengers and six crew members. The crash occurred near the village of Stepanovskoye about 50 miles southeast of Moscow. No one on board survived the plane crash.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855598", "title": "Battle of Stony Lake", "text": "Battle of Stony Lake\n\nThe Battle of Stony Lake was the third and last engagement of Henry Hastings Sibley's 1863 campaign against the Santee, Yankton, Yanktonai and Teton Sioux in Dakota Territory. Following the battle, the Indians fought delaying actions against Sibley until their women and children had successfully crossed the Missouri River. Sibley then gave up his chase of them.\n\nSibley fought the Sioux in the Battle of Big Mound on July 24 and at the Battle of Dead Buffalo Lake on July 26. The Sioux retreated westward after each battle, the warriors covering the flight of their women and children toward the Missouri River. Sibley anticipated that he might trap the Indians between his forces and those of General Alfred Sully, who was ascending the Missouri River with 1,200 soldiers.\n\nOn July 27, the day after the Battle of Dead Buffalo Lake, Sibley marched his 2,000 men 23 miles to Stony Lake and camped there for the night. The next morning he broke camp before dawn and continued his march on the trail of the Indians. About two hours later, his scouts, mostly mixed-blood Sioux, reported a large mounted force advancing on Sibley's column.\n\nThe Sioux apparently hoped to surprise Sibley, strike at a weak point, and force him to abandon his pursuit. Warned of their approach, Sibley closed up his stretched-out column of soldiers, sent out skirmishers, and deployed his artillery. The Sioux warriors appeared shortly on hills in a semi-circle with an arc of 5 or 6 miles around Sibley's forces. Sibley estimated their numbers at 2,200 to 2,500. The Sioux said their force totaled 1,600 warriors. Most of the Indians, however, were armed only with bows and arrows and muskets, thus ineffective fighting at distances of more than 100 yards.\n\nNearly surrounding Sibley's column, but having failed to surprise him, the Sioux probed for weak spots. Colonel James H. Baker's 10th Minnesota Regiment was in Sibley's van and advanced, firing volleys and supported by two mountain howitzers. The Sixth Minnesota and Seventh Minnesota Regiments deployed to the left and right of Sibley's wagon train. Charges by companies of infantry dislodged the Indians from several hills. Shortly, the Sioux gave up the battle and faded away. Sibley was unable to pursue them as his horses and men were tired.\n\nSibley did not suffer any casualties. Sioux casualties are unknown, but probably light. Three Indians were seen to have been knocked off their horses by an artillery round.\n\nAfter the Sioux had departed, Sibley marched his men unmolested for 18 miles and camped on Apple Creek, about 10 miles southeast of present-day Bismarck, North Dakota. He had anticipated meeting Sully, who was supposed to be proceeding up the Missouri River by steamboat, near there but there was no sign of him. The next morning, July 29, Sibley sent two howitzers and his mounted Rangers forward about 12 miles to attempt to prevent the Sioux from crossing the Missouri River. He was too late; most had crossed the preceding day, but, in their hasty flight had been forced to abandon many of their belongings.\n\nSome of the warriors were still on the eastern side of the Missouri and Sibley shelled them, causing them to swim across the river to the safer western side where they continued to fire at long distance on Sibley's men. Two of Sibley's men, separated from the main body of soldiers were killed. Sibley camped near the river and the next three nights was subjected to constant, small-scale attacks by the Sioux who burned the prairie, fired into the army's tents, and stampeded some livestock. With Sully, supplies, and reinforcements nowhere to be found, Sibley decided on July 31 to abandon the operation and march back to Minnesota. His horses and men were worn down.\n\nSibley proclaimed his expedition a success as he had pushed the Sioux westward across the Missouri River, far from the settlements in Minnesota and eastern Dakota territory. He claimed to have killed and wounded 150 Indians in the three battles at a loss to his own forces of six men killed. The Santee chief, Standing Buffalo, however, claimed that only 13 Indians had been killed. It is impossible to reconcile the different estimates of Sioux casualties, as it is to determine with precision how many Indian warriors were actually engaged in the battles.\n\nThe Sioux took their revenge on August 3, three days after Sibley had left the banks of the Missouri to return to Minnesota. They attacked a river raft and killed 22 civilians. Nor did raids into Minnesota cease as sixteen whites are known to have been killed by Sioux later in 1863.\n\nLater that summer, Sully, tardy in joining forces with Sibley, would meet the Sioux in the Battle of Whitestone Hill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855608", "title": "Hsiung Feng II", "text": "Hsiung Feng II\n\nThe Hsiung Feng II (HF-2) (雄風二型, \"Brave Wind II\") is an anti-ship missile system developed by the National Chung-Shan Institute of Science and Technology in Taiwan. The HF-2 is designed to be deployed aboard ships or at facilities on land. An airborne version has also been developed which can be carried by the ROC Air Force's F-CK fighters. The HF-2 has ECCM capabilities and is deployed on the ROC Navy's \"Cheng Kung\" class frigates and \"Lafayette\" class frigates, as well as at several land-based sites. In 2000, plans were announced to replace the HF-2 missiles stationed on the Cheng Kung frigates with the RGM-84 Harpoon, but the budget for this was cancelled.\n\nThere are three major versions of HF-2 in service. The first to enter service is the ship-based HF-2, with 2 twin box launcher on destroyer DD-915 first as a trial vessel. Later all major surface combatant in RoCN, except the Knox, were equipped with 2 quad-launchers, plus the 7 WWII era Gearing DDGs that was upgraded to WC3 standard, from the late 1980s to mid-1990s, had added a 1 quad-launcher by mid-1990s to give those air defense ships an anti-surface ability.\n\nAn air-launched version appeared in the early 1990s. Carried by two AT-3B trainer/attacker and a single A-3 attacker, the small force poses little threat to the marine intruders due to its small quantity. However, the recent upgraded IDF (F-CK-1C/D) will add the capacity to carry and launch the HF-2, thus greatly enhance the air-to-surface capacity of RoCAF in future. The air launcher version of HF-2 carried by AT-3 is different from the one supposed carried by original IDF (F-CK-1A/B) prototype, due to differences in length of the HF-2 missile (better known as HF-2 Mark 3 and Mark 4), where the rocket designed for one aircraft cannot fit on another aircraft. Unknown if air-launched HF-2 program is continuing at this point.\n\nThe land-launch version of the HF-2 is the most secretive one because of its relation with the land-attack version of HF-2E. Fixed base versions were produced first, and all major outlying islands of Taiwan were equipped with fortified HF-2 bases in the late 1990s, replacing old HF-1 bases. Fixed HF-1 bases in the main island were also being replaced with fixed HF-2 launchers, again in fortified positions.\n\nThe mobile launcher version was accepted in 2005 and went to mass production in 2006. All mobile launchers, together with mobile command center (with data-link), mobile surface search radar and portable electric generators, were kept in harden shelters and being driven out when needed. The HF-2 mobile launchers, shown in 10-10-2007 parade, was designed to be able to carry both HF-2 and the new HF-3 AShM, by leaving room for the larger HF-3 missile boxes. Same was done to the OH Perry/Cheng Kung class frigate's new HF-2 launchers after each frigate's major overhaul, starting 2001, that allows the launcher to carry larger HF-3 AShM, besides HF-2. Ching Chiang class patrol ship (total 12 built) also are undergoing the same upgrade to carry 2x2 HF-2/3 anti-ship missiles. Kuang Hua VI class missile boat (31 to be built) also carry 2x2 HF-2 anti-ship missile.\n\nA submarine-launched version was planned and designed in the mid-1990s, but nothing more was heard. Selling of the UGM-84 by the US in 2001 may probably terminate it. Not confirm of any submarine-launched version exist, nor US had sold any UGM-84 Harpoon to this date, or Taiwan has announced any purchase of sub Harpoon, or any submarine-launched HF-2.\n\nIn late 2014, CSIST reportedly began the test-launching stage of an extended-range version of the HF-2, increasing range from to ; the range increase was successfully achieved by February 2017.\n\nIn 2019 mass production of an improved Block IIB was approved with production to by completed by 2023.\n\nAlthough the next generation supersonic SSM, the HF-3, has recently completed its development and will start production soon, the development of the HF-2 continues.\n\nIn the mid-1990s the fuel for HF-2 was changed, which doubled its range (80 km to 160 km). The IR seeker was also being changed to an IR imaging seeker, which greatly enhance the IRCCM ability. Also, with the IR imaging seeker, the HF-2 was then able to attack shore targets also, with pre-stored target shape inside missile's computer, but an HF-2 land attack ability was never confirmed.\n\nIn the late 1990s, CSIST begins to develop the supersonic version of HF-2, which could accelerate to low supersonic speed (Mach 1.5) in the final dash, thus increase its chance to kill the target. Development was rumored finished, and some older HF-2 was being replaced with the new supersonic HF-2. But this supersonic HF-2 version is believed to be a myth.\n\nSome HF-2 batteries are located on Taiwan's outlying islands, with others fitted on naval vessels. These missiles have had their radars and IR seekers replaced with GPS guidance units and TV/IR seekers for terminal guidance. This is designed to serve as a deterrent to mainland China and will continue to do so until CSIST completed development of the HF-2E. As with the above, however, the existence of a land-attack version of the HF-2 anti-ship missile is unconfirmed, and the Ministry of National Defense has dismissed media reports claiming the new weapons have a range of between 1000 and 2000 miles as \"sheer fabrication[s].”\n\nIn November 2019 NCSIST tested a new short range anti-ship missile which while weighting significantly less than the Hsiung Feng II is said to have the same range.\n\n\nIn 2019 Sputnik News and other began propagating a conspiracy theory that the ARA San Juan (S-42) had been sunk by a Taiwanese HF-2 anti-ship missile used by international mercenaries working for multinational oil companies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855610", "title": "Riverwalk Kitakyūshū", "text": "Riverwalk Kitakyūshū\n\nThe design is composed of five contrasting geometrical shapes in five colours (yellow, red, white, brown and black) to break the massive complex into acceptable proportions.\n\nOn the 14th floor of the Zenrin-Asahi Shinbun building is the Zenrin map museum. The entrance fee 100 yen. It is open on weekdays, 10.00-17.00.\n\nThe next stage is the construction of the new 11-story Kokura campus of Nishinippon Institute of Technology which will contain the design faculty, and a four-story Toyota Lexus showroom.\n\n\nJon Jerde-associated architectural projects in Japan:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855613", "title": "Polytechnic School (California)", "text": "Polytechnic School (California)\n\nPolytechnic School, often referred to simply as Poly, is a college preparatory private day school located in Pasadena, California with approximately 850 students enrolled in grades Kindergarten through 12.\n\nThe school is a former member of the G20 Schools group.\n\nThe school was founded in 1907 as the first non-profit, independent school in Southern California. It descends from the Throop Polytechnic Institute founded by Amos G. Throop, the same institution that grew into the present California Institute of Technology.\n\nIn the spring of 1907, the Institute decided to focus on the college level and closed the grammar school. Citrus tycoon and noted eugenicist Ezra S. Gosney donated $12,500, a sum matched by twelve other donors. This money allowed them to purchase the property at the present site, originally an orange grove. The school opened in October 1907 with 106 students. At the time, the school was named Polytechnic Elementary School. The school added a ninth grade in 1918 and expanded to high school in 1959. Polytechnic ended its pre-kindergarten program in 2005.\n\nPoly is recognized for its rigorous academic curriculum, which includes Advanced Placement and Honors classes as well as arts and athletic programs. The school has received numerous accolades for the academic accomplishments of its students. In 2006, Poly was named a world leader in student participation and performance on Advanced Placement exams by the College Board. The school frequently had the highest percentage of its students receive a 3 or above on the AP Calculus AB examination when compared to all other small schools administering the test across the globe, according to the College Board.\n\nIn recent years, the most popular college destination for Poly students was the University of Southern California.\" The Wall Street Journal\" ranked Poly 4th in the world as a feeder school for \"elite colleges,\" including Harvard University, Princeton University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Williams College, Pomona College, Swarthmore College, the University of Chicago and Johns Hopkins University. In the 2016-17 class, 35% of the class were National Merit Semi-Finalists & Commended students and 80% of students were accepted to 'highly-selective' top tier universities (institutions with an admit rate of 30% or lower).\n\n\"Los Angeles Magazine\" has also consistently recognized Poly as one of the best high schools in Los Angeles. The September 2008 issue praised Poly for its \"national reputation for producing scholars, artists and athletes.\" Using test score data, the September 2014 issue of \"Los Angeles Magazine\" ranked Poly 2nd of 75 Los Angeles high schools. With an average score of 2150, Poly students had the highest average SAT score of any school included in the rankings. \"The Washington Post\" ranked Poly the 4th and 7th most challenging high school in the United States in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In 2018, Niche ranked Poly as the 2nd best private K-12 school in California, the 4th best private high school in California, and the 16th best private high school nationally.\n\nPolytechnic School covers 15 acres and is divided by Cornell Road into two campuses, north (Lower and Middle School) and south (Upper School), and is adjacent to the Caltech campus. Most of the North Campus buildings were designed by Myron Hunt, who also designed the Rose Bowl and The Huntington, and Elmer Gray, who designed the Beverly Hills Hotel and the Pasadena Playhouse. Some of the classrooms on the lower campus were also done by Gordon Kaufmann, and Roland Coate. The Cornett Mansion (now called the Haaga House) in the south campus was designed in 1907 and serves as the administration building and houses several classrooms for the Upper School. Facilities include a Lower and Middle School Library, Upper School Library, Pool, Boys and Girls Gyms, Athletic field, Performing Arts Center, and historic as well as new classrooms.\n\nPoly’s Athletic Department currently offers 25 Varsity sports in the three seasons of play and is a member of the Prep League. Poly has been competing in the California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) since 1962. In 2016-17, 82% of the students in the Upper School participated in some type of sport.\n\nThe CIF Southern Section has recognized Poly for its commitment to sportsmanship and awarded Poly the CIF Southern Section Jim Staunton Champions of Character Award in 2012. Poly was named the ESPN Rise California/Cal-Hi Sport’s Division 5 School of the Year in 2011.\n\nCIF-SS Team Championships (38)\n\nCIF-SS Individual Championships (69)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855615", "title": "Padise", "text": "Padise\n\nPadise is a village in Lääne-Harju Parish, Harju County in northern Estonia.\n\nPadise is the birthplace of Estonian poet and author Arved Viirlaid (1922–2015).\n"}
{"id": "1855630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855630", "title": "Ryazanaviatrans", "text": "Ryazanaviatrans\n\nRyazanaviatrans was an airline based in Turlatovo, Ryazan, Russia. It operated scheduled and charter regional feeder flights.\n\n\nThe airline was established in 1992. It was formerly part of the Central Districts Airlines and Aeroflot Ryazan division. On 31 October 2012, the it was ordered to cease operations due to increased safety regulations. At that time, its aircraft feet consisted of two Antonov An-24.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855634", "title": "Whiplash (Metallica song)", "text": "Whiplash (Metallica song)\n\n\"Whiplash\" is a song by American heavy metal band Metallica. It was released as the first single from their debut album, \"Kill 'Em All\". The song has been covered a number of times, most notably by Motörhead whose version won a Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance.\n\n\"Whiplash\" was first played in October 23, 1982, and was one of the last songs they wrote for \"Kill 'Em All\".\n\nThe EP also includes fake live performances of \"Seek & Destroy\" and \"Phantom Lord\", they are actually alternate studio recordings with overdubbed crowd noise. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855636", "title": "Alegranza", "text": "Alegranza\n\nAlegranza () is an island in the Atlantic Ocean, located off the coast of Africa and is in the province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands, Spain. It is the northernmost point in the Canary Islands, and part of the Chinijo Archipelago. The island is part of the municipality of Teguise on Lanzarote.\n\nThe area is 10.2 km². The island features a volcano with a crater of about 1.1 km in diameter and an altitude of 289 m. The second highest is Montaña de Lobos at 256 m and following La Rapagura. The northern portion is mainly flat.\n\nThe island is part of the Chinijo Archipelago Natural Park (\"Parque Natural del Archipiélago Chinijo\"). There are no inhabitants on the island.\n\nThe Punta Delgada Lighthouse is located in the eastern part of Alegranza. The lighthouse was built between 1861 and 1865 and was designated a historic monument (\"Bien de Interés Cultural\") in 2002.\n\nIts name, derived from the Spanish word for \"joy,\" was given, according to some scholars, by Jean de Bethencourt because he felt joy upon spotting land. The island has been owned by the Jordán-Martinón family since the 1940s.\n"}
{"id": "1855637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855637", "title": "Percy Helton", "text": "Percy Helton\n\nPercy Alfred Helton (January 31, 1894 – September 11, 1971) was an American stage, film, and television actor. He was one of the most familiar faces and voices in Hollywood of the 1950s.\n\nA native of the Manhattan borough in New York City, Helton began acting at the age of two, appearing in vaudeville acts with his British-born father, Alfred \"Alf\" Helton (born William Alfred Michel). He was a cast member in the Broadway production of \"Julie BonBon\" (1906). Helton went on to perform in stock theater and in other Broadway plays.\n\nHelton joined the United States Army in World War I. Deployed to Europe with the American Expeditionary Forces, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for his duty with the 77th Infantry Division's 305th Field Artillery.\n\nHelton returned to acting and singing professionally after his discharge from the army. However, in one of his subsequent stage roles he was required to shout and scream his lines during much of the play. The resulting stress and damage to his vocal chords after repeated performances left him permanently hoarse, with a raspy falsetto voice and a breathy delivery. That change in his voice altered Helton's career. He remained in acting but chiefly as a character actor in a wide range of films and television programs in the 1950s and 1960s. Among those programs were three guest appearances on \"Perry Mason\", including the role of Asa Cooperman in the 1961 episode \"The Case of the Pathetic Patient\", as a pawn broker in the 1961 episode \"The Case of the Torrid Tapestry.\" and as a hotel clerk in the 1965 episode \"The Case of the Careless Kitten.\" Some examples of the films in which he performed include \"Miracle on 34th Street\" (1947), \"Criss Cross\" (1949), \"The Set-Up\" (1949), \"Kiss Me Deadly\" (1955), and \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" (1969). He is a particular favorite of film noir fans, having co-starred in several classics of the genre. It was his performance in one of those films, \"Wicked Woman\" (1953), where Helton reached perhaps the apex of his career in his characterization of \"Charlie Borg.\" In that role he portrayed a foolish neighbor who gets lured to his possible doom by a devious waitress played by Beverly Michaels.\n\nIn 1955, Helton was cast as Alex Grant, who is arrested for a 15-year-old murder when he returns to a mining camp, in the episode, \"The Hangman Waits\" of the western anthology series, \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Stanley Andrews. Things look bleak for Grant until his youthful lawyer, Greg Lewis (Clark Howat), locates a corroborating witness, 75-year-old Harry Gander (Hank Patterson), whose personal diary clears the suspect. James Seay played corrupt district attorney Lucius Peck.\n\nPercy Helton married actress Edna Helton (née Eustace) on October 24, 1931 and was married to her until his death. They had no children. \n\nHe died at age 77 at the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center on September 11, 1971, the year of his final film appearance. His ashes are inurned at Pierce Brothers Westwood Village Memorial Park and Mortuary in Los Angeles, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855644", "title": "Sean Landeta", "text": "Sean Landeta\n\nSean Edward Landeta (born January 6, 1962) is a former American football punter who played in both the United States Football League and the National Football League. Landeta played 22 seasons in the National Football League for five different teams between 1985 and 2006. Landeta was named to the 1980s All-Decade Team as the first punter and the 1990s All-Decade Team as the second punter, as chosen by the Hall of Fame Selection Committee members.\n\nLandeta grew up in Baltimore, Maryland. Landeta originally began kicking as a nine-year-old. At Loch Raven High School in Towson, Maryland, Landeta was an All-City and All-Metro punter in his only season (1978). Landeta kicked a 41-yard field goal on his first attempt in his first game. His longest punt was 76 yards, which still stands as a school record. He first began playing organized football as a high school senior.\n\nBefore his pro career, he played college football at Towson University in 1979, 1980, 1981 and 1982. He started as a freshman for Towson at the age of 17. He led the nation in punting (NCAA Division II) in 1980 and was named First-Team All American in 1982 (NCAA Division II). Landeta booted a school record 72-yard punt in 1981 and hit the school record 57-yard field goal in 1980. He became the only player in NCAA history to lead the nation in punting and field goals in the same season (1980).\n\nLandeta played almost half of his career for the New York Giants, where he won two championship rings in Super Bowl XXI and Super Bowl XXV. He also played for the Rams, Buccaneers, Packers and Eagles. Landeta led the NFL in punts with 107 in 1999, led the NFL in gross punting in 1994 with a 44.8 average, led the NFL with a 37.8 net average in 1989, and led the league with 24 punts inside the 20 in 1990.\n\nLandeta was the last active NFL player who played in the United States Football League in the 1980s, punting for the Philadelphia/Baltimore Stars in all three of the USFL's seasons. Landeta was named as the punter to the All-USFL team in 1983 and 1984. The Stars won two USFL championships in 1984 and 1985.\n\nUpon the USFL's folding, Landeta joined the NFL's New York Giants, winning two Super Bowls in 1986 and 1990 in his nine seasons with the team (he would return in 2006, in what would be his last season as an active player). He then played for the Los Angeles/St. Louis Rams from 1993–1996. He re-joined the Rams for the 2003 and 2004 seasons, giving him six years with the organization. After spending one season (1997) with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, he moved on to play for the Green Bay Packers in 1998. In 1999, he signed as a free agent with the Philadelphia Eagles. He spent five seasons with the Eagles where he became the oldest punter in NFL history at the age of 44.\n\nOther career highlights include being the first punter in NFL history to average more than 50-yards per punt in a game in three different decades. In 1994, Landeta led the NFL in punting with a 44.8-yard average playing for the Los Angeles Rams. He also recorded the longest punt in Tampa Bay Buccaneers history, with a 74-yarder in 1997 in a game against the New York Jets. As a member of the Green Bay Packers, he set a club record for the highest net punting average and most punts inside the 20 in team history (since the AFL/NFL merger in 1970). As a member of the Eagles, Landeta set the NFL's all-time record for number of punts in a career, punting yardage and punts inside the 20 during the 2001 season.\n\nBy the time Landeta retired, he had amassed 1,401 punts for 60,707 yards (43.3 yards per punt average), with 381 punts inside the 20 and a 35.3 net average. His punts, punting yards, and punts landing inside the 20 were either first or second in NFL history at the time of his retirement. Landeta was also the longest tenured punter in NFL history and is still the oldest punter to ever appear in an NFL game. In addition, Landeta became the first punter in NFL history to earn a $1 million annual salary. Landeta was also named to ESPN's list of 50 All-Time Greatest New York Giants players.\n\nOn March 6, 2008, the 25th anniversary of Landeta's first game in the USFL, he officially announced his retirement from professional football.\n\nIn September 2005, Landeta was elected to the Towson University Hall of Fame.\n\nIn November 2006, Landeta was elected to the NCAA Division II College Football Hall of Fame.\n\nIn May 2009, Landeta was elected to the Pennsylvania Sports Hall of Fame in Philadelphia.\n\nIn September 2011, Landeta was elected to the inaugural Loch Raven High School Hall of Fame Class.\n\nIn November 2011, Landeta was elected to the State of Maryland Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2010, Landeta became eligible for the Pro Football Hall of Fame and appeared on the ballot for the first time.\n\nLandeta works with the Eagles and Giants organizations, appearing at pre-season and regular season functions as an alumnus of both NFL teams. He is also active in media, working for CBS Radio and FOX Television. He also has worked with Comcast and worked as a sideline reporter for Westwood One Radio. In addition, Landeta has also spoken and appeared on numerous radio and television shows throughout the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855654", "title": "Hsiung Feng III", "text": "Hsiung Feng III\n\nThe Hsiung Feng III (HF-3; , \"Brave Wind III\") is a medium range supersonic missile with capabilities to destroy both land based targets and naval targets developed by the National Chung-Shan Institute of Science and Technology (CSIST) in Taiwan. \n\nCSIST started a ramjet test vehicle program in 1994, and this project was later merged with the Hsiung Feng program. Flight testing of a prototype started in 2001. Operational testing and evaluation was started in 2004 and was completed by 2005, on board . The development and flight test program for the Yun Feng long range supersonic cruise missile was hidden within the HF-3's flight test program.\n\nInitial prototype versions of the missile used the design of an integrated rocket ramjet to achieve supersonic speeds. It uses a solid fuel main booster with two side-by-side solid-propellant jettisonable strap-on rocket boosters for initial acceleration and a liquid-fueled ramjet for sustained cruise. It also employs electronic counter-countermeasures (ECCM) capabilities allowing it to penetrate an enemy ship's defenses.\n\nThe missile is cylindrical in shape and composed of three sections, namely guidance and control, warhead, and propulsion. The body has four inlet ducts and four clipped delta control surfaces. It used the inertial navigation system (INS) during mid-course navigation phase and active radar seeker at terminal guidance phase. The air intake design arrangement was reported to have been optimized for evasive maneuvering at terminal sea-skimming altitudes. The missile is designed to be capable of way-pointing and can be programmed to fly offset attack axes to saturate defenses. It is also capable of high-G lateral terminal \"random weaving\" maneuvers to evade close-in defenses.\n\nIt also features an armor-piercing warhead which generates tremendous destruction after hitting the target. The warhead is equipped with self-forging fragments and in the weight class. It has a conventional warhead that is triggered by a smart fuze which directs most of the energy downwards, inside the target ship's hull.\n\nThe missile is believed to have an operating range of with a possible maximum range of over 932 miles (1500 km) and a minimum range of 30 km. It can be deployed on ships and mobile trailers. The instructions for missile launch can be issued by a command and control system for different platforms and different paths leading to saturation of a ship's defense system. In February 2017, Taiwan revealed that it had increased the HF-III's range to .\n\nThe missile was officially revealed on October 10, 2007 at a military parade in Taipei, Taiwan. It has now been deployed aboard the ROC Navy's \"La Fayette\"/\"Kang Ding\"-class frigate, , \"Jin Chiang\"-class patrol gunboats, and on road mobile tractor trailers. In 2019 Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen ordered the NCSIST to accelerate mass production of the HF-3 in response to increasing Chinese military power and bellicosity.\n\nOn July 1, 2016, Chinchiang (PGG-610) of the Republic of China (Taiwan) Navy accidentally fired a Hsiung Feng III missile during a training exercise. The missile traveled a distance of about before it hit a fishing boat The captain of the boat was killed and three crew members were injured. The Taiwan Ministry of National Defense stated that the warship's commander, senior arms officer and missile launch control sergeant had all failed to follow standard operating procedure.\n\nThe plot of the thriller \"Ballistic\" by Don Pendleton centers on the theft of two HF-3 missiles by international terrorists and their recovery by a team of elite agents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855673", "title": "The God Who Wasn't There", "text": "The God Who Wasn't There\n\nThe God Who Wasn't There is a 2005 independent documentary written and directed by Brian Flemming. The documentary questions the existence of Jesus, examining evidence that supports the Christ myth theory against the existence of a historical Jesus, as well as other aspects of Christianity. \n\nMost of the film is a presentation of the argument for the Christ myth theory. Flemming and those he interviews in the film make these claims:\n\nBesides defending the Jesus myth hypothesis, the film criticizes some other aspects of Christianity:\n\nSeveral notable personalities make appearances in the documentary:\n\nThe following only appear on the DVD's commentary track:\n\nAmong the Christians shown in the film were attendees at a Billy Graham Crusade event at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California on November 18, 2004.\n\nA reviewer for \"Impose Magazine\" wrote that the film \"poses some serious questions\" and said, \"if nothing else, this film should be recognized as an important addition to the study of Gibson's masterwork. Film scholars should take note. This is an idiosyncratic film that weaves the arc of Flemming's transition from a religious life to a non-religious life into the larger questions surrounding the dilemma of a 'belief in God.' It's a bold undertaking and he pulls it off.\"\n\nRovi reviewer Jason Buchanan, in a \"New York Times\" review summary, thought that the documentary \"attempts to do for religion what Morgan Spurlock's \"Super Size Me\" did for the fast-food industry\" with a \"bold quest to seek answers to the difficult questions that few are willing to pose... From the ignorance of many contemporary Christians as to the origin of their religion to the striking similarities between Jesus Christ and the deities worshipped by ancient pagan cults and the Christian obsession with blood and violence, this faith-shaking documentary explores the many mysteries of the Christian faith as never before.\"\n\nIn \"Christian Communications Worldwide\" Susan Verstraete offers four criticisms of Brian Flemming's arguments.\n\nFirst, the comparison of Galileo's difficulties with the Catholic Church with arguments about the existence of Jesus are a \"non sequitur\". \"[I]t’s like saying that because your dentist isn’t an expert on small engine repair, your family doctor probably can’t diagnose chickenpox.\"\n\nSecond, to assert that \"Christianity\" is responsible for things like the \"Spanish Inquisition, Charles Manson, David Koresh and other unbalanced, psychotic people who claimed to be doing God’s will\" is a \"hasty generalization\"— \"an inference about \"all\" Christians on the basis of a poorly selected sample.\"\n\nThird, Flemming exaggerates the gap between the traditional date of Jesus' death and the composition of the Gospels, and picks and chooses elements from various mythologies to \"prove that Jesus was a compilation of 'dying and rising god' myths.\"\n\nFourth, she says that Flemming argues \"Paul never believed that Jesus was a physical human being\" because he \"never quotes Jesus or talks about Jesus’ early life.\" In reply she says \"Paul’s letters are not meant to introduce Christ to a new audience, and so understandably don’t reiterate the stories of the Gospels,\" and in addition she cites verses from the Epistles that do reference the humanity of Jesus.\n\nIn December 2006, the atheist organization Rational Response Squad announced it would give free DVDs of the film to the first 1,001 people who participated in the Blasphemy Challenge, an Internet-based project encouraging atheists to declare themselves publicly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855674", "title": "Stories We Could Tell", "text": "Stories We Could Tell\n\nStories We Could Tell is a country rock album by The Everly Brothers, released in 1972. It was reissued as \"\" by BMG in 2003 and included additional tracks, all stemming from the successor album \"Pass the Chicken & Listen\". In 2014 it was re-released once more on \"Stories We Could Tell + Pass The Chicken & Listen\" by Morello Records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855685", "title": "1994 European Athletics Championships", "text": "1994 European Athletics Championships\n\nThe 16th European Athletics Championships were held from 7 August to 14 August 1994 in the Olympic Stadium of Helsinki, Finland.\n\nComplete results were published.\n\n1986 |1990 |1994 |1998 |2002 |\n1986 |1990 |1994 |1998 |2002 |\n\n1986 |1990 |1994 |1998 |2002 |\n1986 |1990 |1994 |1998 |2002 |\nAccording to an unofficial count, 1125 athletes from 43 countries participated in the event, 12 athletes more than the official number of 1113 and one country less than the official number of 44 as published. The announced athlete from did not show.\n\n\n\n\nDifferences to competition format since the 1990 European Championships:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855690", "title": "Michigan Central Railroad", "text": "Michigan Central Railroad\n\nThe Michigan Central Railroad (reporting mark MC) was originally incorporated in 1846 to establish rail service between Detroit, Michigan and St. Joseph, Michigan. The railroad later operated in the states of Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois in the United States, and the province of Ontario in Canada. After about 1867 the railroad was controlled by the New York Central Railroad, which later became part of Penn Central and then Conrail. After the 1998 Conrail breakup Norfolk Southern Railway now owns much of the former Michigan Central trackage.\n\nAt the end of 1925 MC operated 1871 miles of road and 4139 miles of track; that year it reported 4304 million net ton-miles of revenue freight and 600 million passenger-miles.\n\n\nThe line between Detroit and St. Joseph, Michigan was originally planned in 1830 to provide freight service between Detroit and Chicago by train to St. Joseph and via boat service on to Chicago. The Detroit & St. Joseph Railroad was chartered in 1831 with a capital of $1,500,000. The railroad actually began construction on May 18, 1836, starting at \"King's Corner\" in Detroit, which was the name by which the southeast corner of Jefferson and Woodward Avenue was then known. Note that this is not the location of Michigan Central Station, which apparently replaced this building.\n\nThe small private organization, known then as the Detroit and St. Joseph Railroad, quickly ran into problems securing cheap land in the private market, and abandonment of the project was discussed. The City of Detroit invested $50,000 in the project. The State of Michigan bailed out the railroad in 1837 by purchasing it and investing $5,000,000. The now state-owned company was renamed the Central Railroad of Michigan.\n\nBy 1840 the railroad was again out of money and had only completed track between Detroit and Dexter, Michigan. In 1846 the state sold the railroad to the newly incorporated Michigan Central corporation for $2,000,000. By this time the railroad had reached Kalamazoo, Michigan, a distance 143.16 miles.\n\nThe new private corporation had committed to complete the railroad with T rail of not less than sixty pounds to the yard and also to replace the poorly built rails between Kalamazoo and Detroit with similar quality rail, as the state-built rail was of low quality. The new owners met this obligation by building the rest of the line some 74.84 miles to the shores of Lake Michigan by 1849. However, rather than go to St. Joseph, instead they went to New Buffalo. This was because they had decided to extend the road all the way to Chicago.\n\nThis involved passing through two other states and getting leave from two state legislatures to do so. To facilitate this process, they bought the Joliet and Northern Indiana Railroad in 1851. Thus they reached Michigan City, Indiana by 1850 and finished the line to Kensington, IL (now a south Chicago neighborhood) in 1852, using Illinois Central trackage rights to downtown Chicago. The completed railroad was 270 miles in length.\n\nThe Michigan Central Railroad (MCR) operated mostly passenger trains between Chicago and Detroit. These trains ranged from locals to the \"Wolverine\". In 1904, MCR began a long-term lease of Canada Southern Railway (CSR), which operated the most direct route between Detroit and New York. CSR's mainline cut through the heart of Southwestern Ontario, between Windsor and Fort Erie.\nThe new service, known as the Canada Division Passenger Service, saw a major surge beginning at the start of the 1920s. Between 1920 and 1922, the legendary \"Wolverine\" passenger train operated in two sections, five days per week along CSR's mainline. Then, in the summer of 1923, the eastbound \"Wolverine\" began running from Detroit to Buffalo without any scheduled stops in Canada, making the trip in 4 hours and 50 minutes, an unprecedented achievement. During the same summer, the Canada Division was moving 2,300 through passengers per day. By the end of the decade, a fleet of 205 J-1 class Hudson – one of the most powerful locomotives for passenger service yet designed – was hauling passengers along the CSR mainline. However, by the 1930s the \"Wolverine\" was making stops in the Canadian section of the route. Also, by the late 1940s, the \"Empire State Express\" also passed from Buffalo into Southwestern Ontario, however, it terminated at Detroit.\n\nWhile Michigan Central was an independent subsidiary of the New York Central System, passenger trains were staged from Illinois Central's Central Station (in Chicago) as a tenant. When MC operations were completely integrated into NYC in the 1950s, trains were re-deployed to NYC's LaSalle Street Station home, where other NYC trains such as the \"20th Century Limited\" were staged. IC sued for breach of contract and won because the MC had a lease that ran for a few more years. The MC route from Chicago to Porter, Indiana, is mostly intact. The Kensington Interchange, shared with the South Shore Line, was cut out. These tracks now belong to Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad, and are overgrown stub tracks ending short of the interchange. Some trackage around the Indiana Harbor Belt's Gibson Yard has also been removed. The MC's South Water Street freight trackage in downtown Chicago is also gone. Amtrak trains serving the Michigan Central Detroit line now use the former NYC to Porter, where they turn north on Michigan Central. Passenger equipment was mostly similar to that of parent New York Central System. Typically this meant an EMD E-series locomotive and Pullman-Standard lightweight rolling stock. Because General Motors was a large customer of Michigan Central, use of Alco or General Electric locomotives was less common.\n\nPrior to the automobile, Michigan Central was mostly a carrier of natural resources. Michigan had extensive reserves of timber at the time, and the Michigan Central owned lines from east to west of the state and north to south, tapping all resources available. After the advent of the automobile as one of the most dominant forces of commerce ever seen by the world, with Detroit at the epicenter, the Michigan Central became a carrier of autos and auto-related parts. The Michigan Central was one of the few Michigan railroads with a direct line into Chicago, meaning it did not have to operate cross-lake ferries, as did virtually all other railroads operating in Michigan, such as the Pere Marquette, Pennsylvania, Grand Trunk, and Ann Arbor Railroads. Michigan Central was part owner of the ferry service operated to the Upper Peninsula as well as cross-river ferry service to Ontario, but these routes did not exist to circumvent Chicago.\n\nThe Michigan Central Railroad (MCR) and then parent New York Central Railroad (NYC) owned the Canada Southern Railroad (CSR), which had lines throughout southwestern Ontario from Windsor to Niagara Falls. The railroad operated a car-float service over the Detroit River; an immersed tube tunnel below the Detroit River between Detroit, Michigan, and Windsor, Ontario; and the MCR Cantilever Bridge at Niagara Falls, which was later replaced with a steel arch bridge in 1925. The car float operation ended when the Detroit River tunnel was completed.\n\nControl of Canada Southern passed from MCR to NYC, then Penn Central, then Conrail. In 1985 the Canada Southern was sold to two companies, the Canadian National Railway and the Canadian Pacific Railway.\n\nThe Michigan Central Railway Bridge opened in February 1925 and remained in use until the early 21st century. It replaced the earlier Niagara Cantilever Bridge which had been commissioned in 1883 by Cornelius Vanderbilt; the older bridge was scrapped as the new MCR bridge went into service. The MCR Cantilever bridge was inducted into the North America Railway Hall of Fame in 2006, long after it had been scrapped. The Hall of Fame report discussed its significance to the railway industry in the category of \"North America: Facilities & Structures.\"\n\nAll major Michigan railroads operated a rail ferry service across Lake Michigan except the Michigan Central. This can be attributed to MC's most direct route across Southern Michigan from Detroit to Chicago. The Michigan Central also had the best access to Chicago of any Michigan railroad. The Michigan Central did own part of the Mackinac Transportation Company, which operated the SS Chief Wawatam until 1984. The Chief Wawatam was a front-loading, hand-fired, coal-fed steamer. It was the last hand-fired steamer in the free world at its long-overdue retirement in 1984. The Chief Wawatam continued to operate until 2009, cut down to a barge. One Chief Wawatam engine was salvaged and restored by the Wisconsin Maritime Museum. Other artifacts from the ferry, including the whistle, wheel, telegraphs, and furniture, are preserved by the Mackinac Island State Park Commission in Mackinaw City. Car floats also ran across the Detroit River to Windsor, Ontario, for high and wide loads that could not fit through the tunnels.\n\nThe major competitors of the Michigan Central were:\n\nThe MCR passenger station located in Jackson is the oldest continuously operated passenger station in North America, opened in 1873. See Wikipedia article Jackson Station (Michigan) for details and photo.\n\nThis train depot was built to replace a former station that had burned down. It served passenger trains until the early 1950s. Today, the station is home to the Ann Arbor Model Railroad Club, which hosts open houses the first Wednesday of each month. It also has some railroad memorabilia such as an old crossing signal and baggage cart.\n\nMichigan Central was the owner of Michigan Central Station in Detroit. Opened in 1913, the building is of the Beaux-Arts Classical style of architecture, designed by the Warren & Wetmore and Reed and Stem firms who also designed New York City's Grand Central Terminal. As such, Michigan Central Station bears more than a passing resemblance to New York's famed rail station.\n\nLast used by Amtrak in 1988, Michigan Central Station then become a victim of extensive vandalism. Over the next 30 years, several proposals and concepts for redevelopment were suggested, none coming to fruition. The estimated cost of renovations was $80 million, but the owners viewed finding the right use as a greater problem than financing. Though listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the Detroit City Council passed a resolution to demolish the station in April 2009. The council was then met with strong opposition from Detroit resident Stanley Christmas, who in turn, sued the city of Detroit to stop the demolition effort, citing the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966. The station shows up in the first part of the Godfrey Reggio movie \"Naqoyqatsi\" and is frequently used by Michael Bay in such films as \"The Island\" and \"Transformers\". In May 2018, Ford Motor Company purchased the building for redevelopment into a mixed use facility and cornerstone of the company's new Corktown campus.\n\nThe Michigan Central station at Niles, Michigan is also famous, having appeared in several Hollywood movies. Like its sister station in Detroit, the station is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Michigan Central Railroad Depot (Battle Creek, MI) opened on July 27, 1888. Rogers and MacFarlane of Detroit designed the depot, one of several Richardsonian Romanesque-style stations between Detroit and Chicago in the late nineteenth century. Thomas Edison as well as Presidents William Howard Taft and Gerald Ford visited here. The depot was acquired by the New York Central Railroad in 1918, Penn Central in 1968 and Amtrak in 1970. The depot was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1971 and is now Clara's on the River Restaurant.\n\nLocated between Augusta and Galesburg Michigan. The massive re-enforced concrete building stands over the Detroit to Chicago mainline. Built in 1923, it was used to refuel and water steam engines. It fell out of use post WW2, as diesel engines came onto the scene. See Wikipedia articles and photos on this structure.\n\nThe former Michigan Central Station in Ann Arbor, a granite stone block building built in 1886 and designed by Frederick Spier of Spier and Rohns, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and now houses the Gandy Dancer Restaurant.\n\nThe Michigan Central also built and operated a swing bridge over Trail Creek at Michigan City, Indiana. This swing bridge is similar to the moving span at Spuyten Duyvil owned by parent New York Central, but has no approach spans. It is still in operation and owned by Amtrak.\n\nNo historic Michigan Central-specific equipment exists today. After the steam era, almost all equipment was lettered for New York Central. Many common New York Central locomotives and rolling stock are preserved in places like Illinois Railway Museum and the National New York Central Museum, in Elkhart Indiana. The latter includes a sample passenger train in NYC livery, although the two coaches are actually of Illinois Central heritage. The E8 and observation car are original NYC equipment and very likely served on the Michigan Central after dieselization. The station in Dexter, MI has some railroad memorabilia around it, such as an old level crossing signal and a baggage cart.\n\nThe Michigan Central, having been only a \"paper\" railroad for decades and not owning any track since the late 1970s, was merged into United Railroad Corp. (a subsidiary of Penn Central) on December 7, 1995. Today, Norfolk Southern owns most trackage not abandoned in the early 1980s. Lake State Railway now operates the remnants former Detroit-Mackinaw City line from Bay City to Gaylord, which is partially owned by the state of Michigan. What remained of CASO was mostly abandoned by Canadian National in 2011, after seeing little to no traffic for years. Amtrak owns the Detroit line from Porter, Indiana, to Kalamazoo, Michigan, while the State of Michigan owns the line from there to Dearborn, Michigan. This line is a projected \"high speed\" line; a portion of the line was converted to 110 MPH operation in early 2012 with further upgrades planned. Amtrak operates three Chicago-Detroit-Pontiac trains each way per day, under the old banner \"Wolverine\". The Port Huron train (the \"Blue Water\") also uses this line as far east as Battle Creek, Michigan. Both Kalamazoo and Niles have retained their old Michigan Central Stations; the Niles station is occasionally portrayed in film.\n\nIn July 2007 Norfolk Southern was in talks with Watco, a shortline holding company, to sell the Kalamazoo-Detroit portion of the Michigan Central main line. The proposal was set before the Surface Transportation Board, and was officially endorsed by Amtrak in September 2007. In December 2007 the STB rejected the plan, citing concerns over the relationship between the Norfolk Southern and Watco. Labor unions had raised concerns over the transfer of operations to a substantially non-transportation company, under which different labor regulations would apply.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855696", "title": "Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act", "text": "Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act\n\nThe Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (ESIGN, , ) is a United States federal law passed by the U.S. Congress to facilitate the use of electronic records and electronic signatures in interstate and foreign commerce by ensuring the validity and legal effect of contracts entered into electronically. In 2010, both House of Congress passed a resolution at the request of industry leaders, recognizing June 30 as \"National ESIGN Day.\"\n\nAlthough every state has at least one law pertaining to electronic signatures, it is the federal law that lays out the guidelines for interstate commerce. The general intent of the ESIGN Act is spelled out in the very first section (101.a), that a contract or signature “may not be denied legal effect, validity, or enforceability solely because it is in electronic form”. This simple statement provides that electronic signatures and records are just as good as their paper equivalents, and therefore subject to the same legal scrutiny of authenticity that applies to paper documents.\n\nSec 106 of the ESIGN Act defines:\n\nSection 101 of the ESIGN Act, sub-section (b), preserves the rights of individuals to NOT USE electronic signatures. Here the law provides that individuals reserve the right to use a paper signature. Sub-section (c) is in direct support of (b) by requiring a “Consumer Disclosure” that the signatory has consented to use an electronic format.\n\nThe consumer must provide \"affirmative consent\", meaning that it cannot be assumed that a consumer has given consent simply because he/she has not chosen the option to deny consent, or has not responded to an option to grant consent.\n\nSection 101(d) provides that if a law requires that a business retain a record of a transaction, the business satisfies the requirement by retaining an electronic record, as long as the record 1) \"accurately reflects\" the substance of the original record in an unalterable format, 2) is \"accessible\" to people who are entitled to access it, 3) is \"in a form that is capable of being accurately reproduced for later reference, whether by transmission, printing or otherwise\", and 4) is retained for the legally required period of time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855702", "title": "Level 3 Communications", "text": "Level 3 Communications\n\nLevel 3 Communications was an American multinational telecommunications and Internet service provider company headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado. It ultimately became a part of CenturyLink, where Level 3 President and CEO Jeff Storey was installed as Chief Operating Officer, becoming CEO of CenturyLink one year later in a prearranged succession plan.\n\nLevel 3 operated a Tier 1 network. The company provided core transport, IP, voice, video, and content delivery for medium-to-large Internet carriers in North America, Latin America, Europe, and selected cities in Asia. Level 3 was also the largest competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC) and the 3rd largest provider of fiber-optic internet access (based on coverage) in the United States.\n\nOn October 31, 2016, CenturyLink announced an agreement to acquire Level 3 Communications in a cash and stock transaction. Level 3 became part of CenturyLink on November 1, 2017.\n\nIn 1985, Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc created a subsidiary named Kiewit Diversified Group to manage the corporation's business that was not related to construction. The division was spun off as a separate entity and changed its name to Level 3 Communications in 1998 to signify an increased focus on communication services. That same year saw it make an IPO on NASDAQ. According to Level3's own history, it continued to build its telecommunications network after going public.\n\nAccording to Level3's own history, in 2003, the company acquired Genuity, and, between 2005 and 2007, it purchased several other companies including former rivals WilTel Communications, Broadwing Corporation, Looking Glass Networks, Progress Telecom, and Telcove (formerly Adelphia Business Solutions). In 2004, Level 3 acquired ICG Communications' wholesale dial-up business for $35 million. Then, in 2006, Level 3 purchased the rest of ICG Communications for $163 million, taking over ICG's fiber network and nationwide Points of Presence (PoPs). It then integrated these companies through 2010.\n\nOn April 11, 2011, Level 3 announced a tender offer had been made to acquire fellow Tier 1 provider Global Crossing in an all-stock transaction, which was approved by shareholders on August 5, and completed on October 4, 2011. On October 20, 2011, Level 3 Communications reduced its total shares and transferred its stock listing from NASDAQ to the larger New York Stock Exchange.\n\nOn May 14, 2012, Level 3 was contracted by European content provider Voxility to provide 250 Gbit/s or more to Voxility's three main data centers in North America and Europe. On May 7, 2012, Level 3 was contracted by the U.S. Department of Defense's Defense Information Systems Agency to provide fiber-cable operations and maintenance, and IP-based infrastructure under a ten-year, indefinite contract with a maximum value of approximately $411 million.\n\nOn June 16, 2014, Level 3 acquired TW Telecom, a business Internet connection provider, for about $5.7 billion.\n\nIn July 2015, Level 3 acquired Black Lotus, a provider of protection against distributed denial of service (DDoS).\n\nOn October 31, 2016, CenturyLink announced its intent to acquire Level 3 in a deal valued at around $34 billion.\n\nOn October 3, 2017, the deal was approved by the United States Department of Justice on condition of selling some of Level 3's telecom holdings in three states. The deal officially closed and Level 3 became part of CenturyLink on November 1, 2017.\n\nOn November 1, 2017, Level 3 Communications officially merged with CenturyLink. As part of the merger, work was required to divest of 24 individual fiber optic lines spanning 30 city pairs as required by the US Department of Justice. Additionally, Level 3 was required to divest of metro Ethernet markets in Boise, Tucson, and Albuquerque to satisfy antitrust requirements. The company complied with the divestiture of those assets.\n\nLevel 3 Communications operated a large network Internet, with infrastructure in 46 states in the continental United States, South America, Western Europe, and some cities in Asia. It uses transatlantic cables, including \"Yellow\" /AC-2 (on which it owned two of the four fiber pairs after Viatel's 2001 bankruptcy). Level 3 Communications has also purchased 300 Gbit/s of capacity on the Apollo (cable system).\n\nAt the time of acquisition by CenturyLink, it was owner of AS1 (following the acquisition of Genuity, from BBN Technologies), but it used AS3356 for operations. AS3356 consistently had one of the highest ranked connectivity degrees on the Internet. It also operated the former Global Crossing network (AS3549) following the company acquisition in 2011.\n\nLevel 3 Communications delivered Netflix and Apple music and video content over the Internet. The company ran a content delivery network which it acquired from Savvis in 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Level 3 Communications announced with Internet2, an academic network, that they would deploy a next generation nationwide research network.\n\nLevel 3 distributed and sold its services through a mix of six independent sales channels: large enterprise, wholesale, federal, content and media, midmarket, and indirect. All six sales channels reported to the president of sales Andrew Crouch. The top performing Level 3 indirect sales agencies in 2010 included Intelisys, Microcorp, CDW/AVANT Communications, PlanetOne, Advantage Communications Group, Telarus, and Presidio.\n\nOn November 11, 2010 a dispute arose between Level 3 and Comcast, when Level 3 announced that they were \"selected to serve as a primary content delivery network (CDN) provider for Netflix, Inc. to support the company's streaming functionality.\" Apparently, as a result of this distribution agreement, Comcast sought to renegotiate the peering agreement with Level 3 and sought a recurring fee for carrying the increased Level 3 internet traffic to and from Comcast broadband customers. Claims and counter-claims were made as the two companies sought to renegotiate the contract. In December 2010, the New America Foundation submitted information concerning the dispute to the FCC.\n\nOn July 16, 2013, Level 3 Communications and Comcast seemingly ended their three-year dispute by issuing a statement that \"Level 3 and Comcast have resolved their prior interconnect dispute on mutually satisfactory terms. Details will not be released.\" On May 21, 2015, Level 3 and Comcast announced a new multi-year bilateral agreement to \"enhance their existing network capacity while extending their mutual interconnection agreements, ensuring that both maintain ample capacity to exchange Internet traffic between their networks.\"\n\nIn July 2013, the NSA was accused of wiretapping large parts of data on the German Internet Exchange Point DE-CIX which was denied by Level 3, and a few months later, was accused of tapping connections between Google and Yahoo data centers.\n"}
{"id": "1855703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855703", "title": "David Greene (American football)", "text": "David Greene (American football)\n\nDavid Norman Greene (born June 22, 1982) is a former American football quarterback. He was drafted by the Seattle Seahawks in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He played college football at Georgia.\n\nGreene has also been a member of the New England Patriots, Kansas City Chiefs, and Indianapolis Colts. He retired following the 2008 season, having never played in a regular season game.\n\nWhile attending South Gwinnett High School in Snellville, Georgia, David Greene was a two-sport standout as a quarterback in football, and as a right fielder in baseball. In football, he led his team to two consecutive playoff appearances and as a senior, he completed 134 passes out of 227 pass attempts (59.0 completion percentage) for 2,102 yards, and 19 touchdowns, and earned USA Today All-USA Honorable Mention honors, Atlanta Journal-Constitution Super 11 honors, Super Southern 100 honors, Top 75 in Georgia honors, Class AAAA All-State honors, Georgia Sports Writers Association AAAA All-State honors, was named the Gwinnett County co-Offensive Player of the Year, Atlanta Touchdown Club Quarterback of the Year, Gwinnett Touchdown Club All-Star quarterback, and Atlanta Club Quarterback of the Year. After his senior season, he participated in the Georgia-Florida All-Star game.\n\nGreene played quarterback at the University of Georgia in college. He began his career as a redshirt freshman in 2001, being named the starter before the season. His most notable freshman game occurred at #5 Tennessee on October 6, known as the \"Hobnail Boot\" game. This phrase was coined by Georgia's famous play-by-play announcer Larry Munson. After Tennessee took the lead in the fourth quarter on a successful screen pass with :44 left, Greene led the Bulldogs back down the field with an inspiring series of quick passes. The winning touchdown pass went to fullback Verron Haynes in a now famous play known as \"P-44 Haynes\" or the \"Hobnail Boot\" play with just five seconds remaining on the clock. Upon Greene's completion to Haynes in the endzone for the winning touchdown, announcer Munson made this fateful call: \"We just stepped on their face with a hobnail boot and broke their nose. We just crushed their face!\"\n\nThis play marked the beginning of Greene's record-setting career at Georgia, highlighted by guiding the team to a Sugar Bowl victory in 2002. The same season he led the Bulldogs to their first SEC championship since 1982. He was named SEC Offensive Rookie of the Year after the 2001 season, and was the 2002 Offensive Player of the Year for The Southeastern Conference. In 2004, Greene made 214 consecutive pass attempts without an interception, a record that stood until broken by Andre Woodson from Kentucky in 2007.\n\nAt Georgia, one of Greene's roommates was friend and future Cincinnati Bengals defensive lineman David Pollack, who was drafted 17th in 2005. The two played football together when they were younger in Snellville, though they went to different high schools.\n\nGreene finished his college career as the winningest quarterback in NCAA Division I history with 42 wins in four years, eclipsing the record previously held by Peyton Manning. However, on November 21, 2009, University of Texas quarterback Colt McCoy broke his record with a win over University of Kansas. Greene finished his college career as the Southeastern Conference all-time career leader in yards gained with 11,270 until that record was broken by Aaron Murray on October 5, 2013 against Tennessee.\n\n\nGreene was drafted in the third round, 85th overall, in the 2005 NFL Draft. He spent 2006 #3 on the Seahawks' depth chart, behind Matt Hasselbeck and Seneca Wallace. He had been expected to compete with Seneca Wallace to be #2 on the Seahawks' depth chart for the 2007 NFL Season, but disappointed with his play during the preseason. At one point, coach Mike Holmgren expressed his dissatisfaction with Greene's progress as a quarterback. In September 2007, Greene was released by the Seahawks. \n\nGreene was signed to the New England Patriots' practice squad on September 19, 2007, only to be released on November 20, 2007. \n\nGreene was then signed to the practice squad of the Kansas City Chiefs, and eventually promoted to the active roster on December 29, 2007. He was waived by the team on July 18, 2008.\n\nGreene was signed to the practice squad of the Indianapolis Colts on September 25, 2008 after the team released quarterback Josh Betts. The Colts released Greene on November 14, 2008.\n\nIn January 2009, Greene told the \"Gwinnett Daily Post\" that he was retiring from professional football. He returned to Atlanta in September 2008 and joined an insurance brokerage firm, Sterling Seacrest Partners, along with fellow former Bulldog Matt Stinchcomb.\n\nGreene appeared on MLB Network's \"The Next Knuckler\", in which the winner received a chance to go to spring training with the Arizona Diamondbacks as a knuckleball pitcher. Greene finished second to Josh Booty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855704", "title": "Mark English (illustrator)", "text": "Mark English (illustrator)\n\nMark English (1933-2019) was an American illustrator and painter, born in Hubbard, Texas. He was one of the United States' leading illustrators for publications in a career spanning from the 1960s to the 1990s, before beginning a career painting for gallery exhibition in 1995.\n\nMark English was born on September 19, 1933 in Hubbard, Texas. He attended the Hubbard High School and graduated in 1951, after which he enrolled into the University of Texas. He was then drafted into the military during the Korean War. In 1954, English married his first wife, Peggy Ann Littlejohn. In 1960, Mark graduated with honours from The Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California, with a BFA in Advertising Design. After gaining work experience in advertising agencies for the automobile industry, English and his family moved to Connecticut in 1964. He began an illustrious career, working with publications such as TIME Magazine and Sports Illustrated among others in the corporate, pharmaceutical, music and postage industry. In 1977, Hallmark Cards offered Mark an Artist-in-Residency to teach classes to its creative staff in Kansas City. It was there that he met his second wife, Wendy Buskey, and they married in 1983. In 1995, English retired from illustrations and began to paint for galleries in earnest. The same year, English and his son John co-founded the Illustration Academy, an art and design workshop catering to students and professionals. From 1999 onwards, English's work and paintings were exhibited in galleries across the United States and in London. His last exhibition was in 2019, in the Sager Braudis Gallery, in Columbia. Before his death, English was living in Liberty, Missouri with his wife. \n\nOn August 8, 2019, Mark English died peacefully, \"after a brief illness\" in Kansas City. He left behind four daughters; Donna, Stephanie, Emily, and Sarah, and a son, John.\n\nEnglish's unique illustration style appeared in publications as TIME, Sports Illustrated, Redbook, Atlantic Monthly, Rolling Stone, McCalls, and many other corporate and pharmaceutical publications. He designed 14 stamps for the U.S. Postal Service, movie posters and album covers for John Denver, Julian Lennon, and The Who.\n\nIn painting, English showcases his style in a variety of subjects, from figures, animals and florals to landscape and architecture. His paintings have been exhibited worldwide in galleries such as the Eleanor Ettinger Gallery in New York, Albemarle Gallery in London, Maxwell Gallery in San Francisco, and have been the subject to publication in four books, available on his website.\n\nHe has won hundreds of awards for his work and has been the most awarded illustrator in the history of the Society of Illustrators in New York City. including the 1967 \"Hamilton King Award\" from said Society of Illustrators.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855707", "title": "Alex Ebel", "text": "Alex Ebel\n\nAlex Ebel (November 14, 1932 – December 6, 2013) was a science fiction and fantasy illustrator. Ebel painted the poster for the original \"Friday the 13th\" (1980), and an unused poster for \"Friday the 13th Part 2\".\n\nHis illustrations for book covers include \"Galaxies\" and \"The Sun\" by Isaac Asimov, \"Evil Earths\" by Brian Aldiss, \"Ability Quotient\" by Mack Reynolds, \"Homefaring\" by Robert Silverberg and one of his most famous, \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" by Ursula K. Le Guin. \n\nHis art for magazines includes \"Space Science Fiction\", \"Heavy Metal\" and \"Fantastic Story Magazine\". \n\nIn addition, he illustrated for World Book.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855711", "title": "Melissa Peterman", "text": "Melissa Peterman\n\nMelissa Margaret Peterman (born July 1, 1971) is an American actress and comedian who is best known for her role as Barbra Jean in the television comedy series \"Reba\". Peterman has appeared as Bonnie Wheeler in the ABC Family/Freeform series \"Baby Daddy\", and as host of ABC Family's \"Dancing Fools\", ABC's \"Bet on Your Baby\", and CMT's \"The Singing Bee\".\n\nPeterman was born in Edina, Minnesota and grew up in nearby Burnsville, Minnesota. After graduating from Burnsville High School, she attended Minnesota State University, Mankato where she majored in theater.\nUpon graduating from Minnesota State, Peterman was cast as Madeline Monroe in Hey City Theater's production of \"Tony n' Tina's Wedding\". After more than 600 performances, she went on to write and perform at Brave New Workshop, the improvisational comedy theatre in Minneapolis. The theater boasts such alumni as Pat Proft, Louie Anderson, Cedric Yarbrough, Mo Collins and Al Franken. While with the Brave New Workshop, she also performed at the Chicago Improv Festival and the Big Stink Comedy Festival in Austin, Texas.\n\nIn 1996, Peterman made her film debut as \"Hooker #2\" in the Oscar-winning Coen brothers' movie \"Fargo\".\n\nIn 2001, Peterman was cast as Barbra Jean Booker-Hart in \"Reba\" opposite country music star Reba McEntire and television veteran Christopher Rich. The show was the most-watched comedy on The WB in its debut season. In 2007, the show ended its run after six seasons. Episodes continue to air in syndication on multiple networks.\n\nDuring this time, Peterman also returned to film with \"Recipe for Disaster\" alongside Lesley Ann Warren and John Larroquette. She also made appearances in \"How High\" and the unreleased independent film \"Cook-Off\". Peterman remained loyal to her comic roots, too, as the host of \"15 Minutes of Fem\", a comedy showcase for women presented at the Egyptian Theatre. On television, she appeared in the Oxygen sketch comedy show \"Running with Scissors\" and guest-starred on \"Just Shoot Me!\" and \"The Pitts\". She also portrayed an unstable guidance counselor, Mrs. Splitz, on \"Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide\".\n\nDuring her summer hiatus from \"Reba\", Peterman hosted \"The Sound of Music Sing-a-Long\", reprising her hosting gig the previous summer's \"The Wizard of Oz Sing-a-Long\", at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles. Peterman also made appearances on the \"World Cup Comedy Challenge\" television series, as well as on the celebrity edition of \"Trading Spaces\", with her \"Reba\" co-star Christopher Rich.\n\nIn October, ABC announced Peterman had been cast in an untitled comedy pilot starring Cedric the Entertainer. The show was taped before an audience on October 30, 2007. In December, the network announced they had secured the actors, indicating they were interested in the project. During the annual upfront presentation on May 13, 2008, ABC confirmed they did not order the pilot to series.\n\nIn 2007, Peterman appeared as the opening act on country singer and former \"Reba\" co-star Reba McEntire's tour. Peterman returned the following year, with an almost-identical comedy routine, when McEntire toured with Kelly Clarkson. She was also the opening act for the second leg of the tour in 2008.\n\nIn 2007, Peterman hosted \"Comedy Stage\" for CMT. The series finished its run after eight episodes. The next year, she hosted a special, \"Redneck Dreams\", for the network. Also in 2008, she was in two episodes of \"Wanna Bet?\" as a celebrity panelist. Peterman also appeared in an episode of animated comedy \n\"American Dad!\". She announced she was shooting another comedy, this time for FOX, titled \"Living With Abandon\". The pilot was not ordered to series.\n\nIn 2009, she landed the hosting gig for \"The Singing Bee\". The show had been cancelled by NBC, and CMT expressed interest in reviving the competition. The show has gone on for over four seasons. Also in 2009, Peterman appeared in \"Rita Rocks\" on Lifetime, and in \"Surviving Suburbia\" on ABC. She starred opposite Gary Valentine in \"Dusty Peacock\", an online comedy series on Crackle.\n\nIn February 2010, Big Machine Records announced that they signed Peterman to a recording contract, and she was to release her debut comedy album that year. The album has been recorded, but has not yet been released. Peterman is no longer listed on the record label website. Her debut comedy special, \"Melissa Peterman: Am I The Only One?\", premiered March 12, 2010 on CMT. The special was taped before an audience in Nashville, Tennessee. Also that year, Peterman hosted the CMT Music Awards red carpet.\n\nPeterman had revealed, in 2010, she was starring in another pilot. The family sitcom, titled \"Working Class\", was the first original scripted comedy for the CMT network. Peterman starred alongside comedy veteran Ed Asner and renowned television actor Patrick Fabian. The series debut was the most-watched and highest-rated in network history. The series was canceled after one season.\n\nIn 2012, Peterman announced she was appearing in an upcoming ABC Family sitcom, \"Baby Daddy\". In March, the network announced Peterman, originally only appearing in one episode, had been upgraded to series regular. The network also revealed the pilot was the highest-testing comedy pilot in network history. \"Baby Daddy\" finished its season as the highest-rated comedy in key demographics. The show has been renewed for a second season, returning Wednesday, May 29. The show ended on May 22, 2017, after six seasons.\n\nIn January 2013, ABC ordered \"Bet On Your Baby\" and announced Peterman was the host. The competition series debuts Saturday, April 6. In February 2013, ABC Family announced Peterman was also the host of another upcoming competition, \"Dancing Fools\". The series debuts Wednesday, May 29, immediately following \"Baby Daddy\".\n\nSince 2019, Peterman hosts the comedy game show \"Punch Line,\" where two teams of comedians try to supply punchlines to various headlines.\n\nPeterman married John Brady on June 5, 1999, and their son was born October 20, 2005. She was a bridesmaid at \"Reba\" co-star JoAnna Garcia Swisher's wedding, along with Reba McEntire. She works with The Unusual Suspects Theatre Company, a non-profit organization helping at-risk youth in the Los Angeles area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855712", "title": "IBM Generalized Markup Language", "text": "IBM Generalized Markup Language\n\nGeneralized Markup Language (GML) is a set of macros that implement intent-based (procedural) markup tags for the IBM text formatter, SCRIPT. SCRIPT/VS is the main component of IBM's Document Composition Facility (DCF). A \"starter set\" of tags in GML is provided with the DCF product. \n\nGML was developed in 1969 and the early 1970s by Charles Goldfarb, Edward Mosher and Raymond Lorie (whose surname initials were used by Goldfarb to make up the term GML).\n\nUsing GML, a document is marked up with tags that define what the text is, in terms of paragraphs, headers, lists, tables, and so forth. The document can then be automatically formatted for various devices simply by specifying a profile for the device. For example, it is possible to format a document for a laser printer or a line (dot matrix) printer or for a screen simply by specifying a profile for the device without changing the document itself.\n\nThe Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML), an ISO-standard technology for defining generalized markup languages for documents, is descended from GML. The Extensible Markup Language (XML) was initially a streamlined and simplified development of SGML, but has outgrown its parent in terms of worldwide acceptance and support.\n\n :h1.Chapter 1: Introduction\n\nIn the early 1980s, IBM developed a dedicated publishing tool called Information Structure Identification Language (ISIL) based on GML. ISIL was used to generate much of IBM documentation for the IBM PC and other products at this time. In the late 1980s, a commercial product called BookMaster was developed, based mostly on ISIL. \n\nDuring the early 1980s, Don Williams at IBM developed DWScript to use the SCRIPT/VS on the IBM PC. In 1986, he developed a PC version of ISIL called DWISIL. These products were used only internally at IBM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855720", "title": "Associação Cultural Esporte Clube Baraúnas", "text": "Associação Cultural Esporte Clube Baraúnas\n\nAssociação Cultural Esporte Clube Baraúnas, or Baraúnas as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Mossoró in Rio Grande do Norte, founded on January 14, 1960.\n\nIn 1924, Baraúnas was initially a carnival block (meaning \"bloco carnavalesco\" in Portuguese).\n\nSome of the members of this block, on January 14, 1960, founded Esporte Clube Baraúnas.\n\nIn 1966, Esporte Clube Baraúnas changed its name to Associação Cultural Esporte Clube Baraúnas.\n\nIn 1989, Baraúnas competed in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série B, being eliminated in the first stage.\n\nIn 1998, the club competed in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série C, being eliminated in the first stage.\n\nIn 2005, Baraúnas competed in the Copa do Brasil for the first time. In the first stage, the club beat América Mineiro, in the second stage, the club beat Vitória, in the third stage, Baraúnas beat Vasco da Gama, but in the quarterfinals, the club was eliminated by Cruzeiro.\n\nIn 2006, Baraúnas won its first state championship, beating its rival, Potiguar de Mossoró, in the final. Baraúnas' Luciano Paraíba was the competition's top goalscorer, with 11 goals.\n\n\n\nBaraúnas' home stadium is the Nogueirão stadium, which has a maximum capacity of 25,000 people.\n\nBaraúnas' greatest rival is Potiguar de Mossoró. The derby is known as \"Potiba\".\n\nThe club's mascot is a lion called \"Leão da doze\". Doze anos (Twelve years, in English) is the name of the neighborhood where the club is located.\n\nOlismar Lima and Francisco Diógenes are the creators of the official anthem's lyrics, and Maestro Batista and Francisco Diógenes are the music authors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855722", "title": "Acousto-optic modulator", "text": "Acousto-optic modulator\n\nAn acousto-optic modulator (AOM), also called a Bragg cell or an acousto-optic deflector (AOD), uses the acousto-optic effect to diffract and shift the frequency of light using sound waves (usually at radio-frequency). They are used in lasers for Q-switching, telecommunications for signal modulation, and in spectroscopy for frequency control. A piezoelectric transducer is attached to a material such as glass. An oscillating electric signal drives the transducer to vibrate, which creates sound waves in the material. These can be thought of as moving periodic planes of expansion and compression that change the index of refraction. Incoming light scatters (see Brillouin scattering) off the resulting periodic index modulation and interference occurs similar to Bragg diffraction. The interaction can be thought of as a three-wave mixing process resulting in Sum-frequency generation or Difference-frequency generation between phonons and photons.\n\nA typical AOM operates under Bragg Condition, where the incident light comes at Bragg angle formula_1 from the perperdicular of the sound wave's propagation. \n\nWhen the incident light beam is at Bragg angle, a diffraction pattern emerges where an order of diffracted beam occurs at each angle θ that satisfies:\n\nHere, \"m\" = ..., −2, −1, 0, +1, +2, ... is the order of diffraction, formula_3 is the wavelength of light in vacuum, formula_4 is the refractive index of the crystal material (e.g. quartz), and formula_5 is the wavelength of the sound. formula_6 itself is the wavelength of the light in the material. Note that m = +1 and m = -1 order exit at Bragg angle from the perperdicular of the sound wave's propagation. \n\nDiffraction from a sinusoidal modulation in a thin crystal mostly results in the \"m\" = −1, 0, +1 diffraction orders. Cascaded diffraction in medium thickness crystals leads to higher orders of diffraction. In thick crystals with weak modulation, only phasematched orders are diffracted; this is called Bragg diffraction. The angular deflection can range from 1 to 5000 beam widths (the number of resolvable spots). Consequently, the deflection is typically limited to tens of milliradians.\n\nThe amount of light diffracted by the sound wave depends on the intensity of the sound. Hence, the intensity of the sound can be used to modulate the intensity of the light in the diffracted beam. Typically, the intensity that is diffracted into \"m\" = 0 order can be varied between 15 % to 99 % of the input light intensity. Likewise, the intensity of the \"m\" = +1 order can be varied between 0 % and 80 %. \n\nAn expression of the efficiency in \"m\" = +1 order is:\n\nformula_7\n\nwhere the external phase excursion formula_8.\n\nTo obtain the same efficiency for different wavelength, the RF power in the AOM has to be proportional to the square of the wavelength of the optical beam. Note that this formula also tells us that, when we start at a high RF power P, it might be higher than the first peak in the sine squared function, in which case as we increase P, we would settle at the second peak with a very high RF power, leading to overdriving the AOM and potential damage to the crystal or other components. To avoid this problem, one should always start with a very low RF power, and slowly increase it to settle at the first peak.\n\nNote that there are two configurations that satisfies Bragg Condition: If the incident beam's wavevector's component on the sound wave's propagation direction goes against the sound wave, the Bragg diffraction/scattering process will result in the maximum efficiency into m = +1 order, which has a positive frequency shift; However, if the incident beam goes along the sound wave, the maximum diffraction effeciency into m = -1 order is achieved, which has a negative frequency shift.\n\nOne difference from Bragg diffraction is that the light is scattering from moving planes. A consequence of this is the frequency of the diffracted beam \"f\" in order \"m\" will be Doppler-shifted by an amount equal to the frequency of the sound wave \"F\".\n\nThis frequency shift can be also understood by the fact that energy and momentum (of the photons and phonons) are conserved in the scattering process. A typical frequency shift varies from 27 MHz, for a less-expensive AOM, to 1 GHz, for a state-of-the-art commercial device. In some AOMs, two acoustic waves travel in opposite directions in the material, creating a standing wave. In this case the spectrum of the diffracted beam contains multiple frequency shifts, in any case integer multiples of the frequency of the sound wave.\n\nIn addition, the phase of the diffracted beam will also be shifted by the phase of the sound wave. The phase can be changed by an arbitrary amount.\n\nCollinear transverse acoustic waves or perpendicular longitudinal waves can change the polarization. The acoustic waves induce a birefringent phase-shift, much like in a Pockels cell. The acousto-optic tunable filter, especially the dazzler, which can generate variable pulse shapes, is based on this principle.\n\nAcousto-optic modulators are much faster than typical mechanical devices such as tiltable mirrors. The time it takes an AOM to shift the exiting beam in is roughly limited to the transit time of the sound wave across the beam (typically 5 to 100 ns). This is fast enough to create active modelocking in an ultrafast laser. When faster control is necessary electro-optic modulators are used. However, these require very high voltages (e.g. 1...10 kV), whereas AOMs offer more deflection range, simple design, and low power consumption (less than 3 W).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855728", "title": "Southside Johnny", "text": "Southside Johnny\n\nJohn Lyon (born December 4, 1948), better known by his stage name Southside Johnny, is an American singer-songwriter who usually fronts his band Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes.\n\nSouthside Johnny has long been considered the Grandfather of \"the New Jersey Sound.\" Jon Bon Jovi has acknowledged Southside Johnny as his \"reason for singing.\"\n\nLyon was born in Neptune, New Jersey, and grew up in Ocean Grove, New Jersey. He grew up in a home full of music and with his parents' big record collection of blues and jazz; his father played bass in bands. \"I grew up on music. We listened to Billie Holiday, T-Bone Walker, Muddy Waters and Big Joe Turner. My parents loved music, the louder the better. My father played in bands for years, and my mother went into labor with me at some seedy New Jersey club. I guess some things were just meant to be.” \n\nIn 1967; Lyon graduated from Neptune High School with Garry Tallent and Vini Lopez, who both would go on to play with him in the future.\n\nSouthside Johnny first achieved prominence in the mid-1970s as the second act to emerge from the Jersey Shore music scene and be considered part of the Jersey Shore sound, following Bruce Springsteen. Southside Johnny's first three albums, \"I Don't Want to Go Home\" (1976), \"This Time It's for Real\" (1977), and \"Hearts of Stone\" (1978), were Stax-influenced R&B, arranged and produced by the co-founder of the band and Springsteen confederate Steven Van Zandt, and largely featured songs written by Van Zandt and/or Springsteen. The Van Zandt-written \"I Don't Want To Go Home\" became Southside Johnny's signature song, an evocative mixture of horn-based melodic riffs and sentimental lyrics. Other notable songs included \"The Fever\", \"Talk to Me\", \"This Time It's For Real\", \"Love on the Wrong Side of Town\", and a cover of Springsteen's \"Hearts of Stone\".\n\nIn 1977, Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes were featured as a bar band in the movie \"Between the Lines\".\n\nIn 1979, Southside Johnny and Asbury Jukes appeared on the Canadian sketch comedy television show \"SCTV\", featured as a \"wedding band\". Johnny and the band played three full songs, including \"The Fever\", and performed many truncated versions of their other tunes. Johnny acted in one sketch, and the entire band was featured as a plot point in another. On August 8, 1979, Southside Johnny and Asbury Jukes performed a homecoming concert in Asbury Park which was the subject of a documentary film directed and produced by Neal Marshad called \"Southside Johnny & The Asbury Jukes at the Asbury Park Convention Center\". The film was first shown in January 1980 on Warner Cable's QUBE in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nIn 1979, the band was dropped by its record company. Now working without Van Zandt, they released \"The Jukes\" in 1979 and \"Love is a Sacrifice\" in 1980. Neither of these achieved much success either. The band's first official live release also came out in 1980, the double live album \"Reach Up and Touch the Sky\".\n\nIn 1982 \"Rolling Stone\" voted the album \"Hearts of Stone\" among the top 100 albums of the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nIn 1983, Southside Johnny served as a technical advisor on the film \"Eddie and the Cruisers\".\n\nDuring the 1980s Southside Johnny's recording contracts continued to change almost by album, but he continued to release records: \"Trash It Up\" (1983), a Latin freestyle-influenced album written by Billy Rush and produced by Nile Rodgers; \"In the Heat\" (1984) an album trying to reach out to \"Adult Contemporary\" radio; and \"At Least We Got Shoes\" (1986) where guitarist and Jersey shore fixture Bobby Bandiera took over songwriting and guitar work from Billy Rush and led the Asbury Jukes back to their original sound. Songwriting credits on \"At Least We Got Shoes\" also contain a song co-written by Bandiera and singer Patti Scialfa, who was known as a Jukes collaborator since the 1980 album \"Love is a Sacrifice\" and who became a member of Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band in 1984.\n\nIn 1985, Southside Johnny contributed the title track to the film \"Tuff Turf\".\n\nIn 1986, Southside contributed the track \"Let Me at 'Em\" to the soundtrack for the film \"Karate Kid II\".\n\nIn 1987, Southside Johnny and the Jukes were featured in the film \"Adventures in Babysitting\" performing at a college frat party. They performed the songs \"Future in Your Eyes\" and \"Expressway to Your Heart\".\n\nIn 1988 Southside Johnny released his first solo record \"Slow Dance\" containing ballads and love songs like \"On the Air\", but also \"Little Calcutta\", a rare political song, describing the life of the homeless in New York City.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Johnny lived in Southern California in the beachside city of San Clemente.\n\nIn 1990, Southside Johnny contributed the songs \"Memories of You\" and \"Written in the Wind\" to the film \"Captain America\". Additionally, he performed the song \"Please Come Home for Christmas\" for the 1990 film \"Home Alone\".\n\nHis recording career was re-launched with the album \"Better Days\" (1991), which featured production by Van Zandt, songs by Springsteen, and vocal performances from Van Zandt, Springsteen and Jon Bon Jovi. With Bobby Bandiera driving the band, the Jukes were gaining new energy for a worldwide tour supporting the album. But once again, Southside Johnny's bad luck with the industry was shown when the record label went bankrupt while the tour was still rolling.\n\nSouthside Johnny performed the theme song for the 1990s television sitcom \"Dave's World\", a cover of Billy Joel's \"You May Be Right.\"\n\nIn 1992, Johnny contributed the song \"Shake 'Em Down\" to the film \"The Mighty Ducks\".\n\nSouthside Johnny eventually relocated to Nashville, Tennessee, taking a break from the music business. A few members of the Asbury Jukes would end up being part of The Max Weinberg 7 on the \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" television show, while some others went on tour and into the recording studio with artists such as Jon Bon Jovi, Mink DeVille, Graham Parker, and Robert Cray.\n\nIn 1998, Johnny came back into the spotlight with an independent release titled \"Spittin' Fire\", a live record with a semi-acoustic Jukes lineup released in France containing a 20-song set recorded during a series of 10 shows at the Chesterfield Café in Paris, France.\n\nSince 2001 Southside Johnny and the Jukes have toured the UK and Europe as an annual event, their first since the 1992 Better Days tour, although Southside and Bobby Bandiera did some acoustic shows in 1995.\n\nAfter a decade without a record contract Johnny finally founded his own record label in 2001 under the name of Leroy Records, and started releasing and distributing his new records fully under his own control: \"Messin' with the Blues\" (2000), \"Going to Jukesville\" (2002), \"Missing Pieces\" (2004), \"Into the Harbour\" (2005). Southside Johnny continued to perform, and maintains substantial audience followings as 2002's \"Live At The Opera House\" DVD, filmed at a sold-out performance in Newcastle upon Tyne, demonstrated.\n\nIn 2007, Southside Johnny appeared in an episode of \"The Sopranos\" TV show entitled \"Chasing It\", where he performed the song \"Bossman\" with Nancy Sinatra.\n\nIn 2008, Southside Johnny collaborated with long-time Asbury Jukes trombone player Richie \"La Bamba\" Rosenberg, for a break from the classic Asbury Jukes sound to classic Big-Band Jazz. Together with a 20-piece big band they recorded a cover album of songs written by Tom Waits, arranged and conducted by Rosenberg.\n\nAs of 2009, Southside Johnny lives again in his original hometown Ocean Grove.\n\nIn June 2010 The Jukes' album \"Pills and Ammo\" was released and received the most critical acclaim since \"Better Days\". The songs were primarily written by Southside Johnny and Jukes keyboard player Jeff Kazee.\n\nOn September 24, 2010, Southside Johnny and the Jukes kicked off an international tour with a free performance at Overpeck Park in Ridgefield Park, New Jersey. Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes continue to be a fixture on the U.S. Northeast music scene including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and Maryland, as well as throughout the UK and Europe.\n\nOn July 2, 2011 Southside Johnny and the Jukes recorded a live performance of Stevie Van Zandt's \"Men Without Women\" album at the Stone Pony in New Jersey for release on CD. The material on \"Men Without Women\" was composed almost entirely of unused material originally recorded by Southside Johnny during the \"Hearts of Stone\" sessions, later re-recorded by Van Zandt as his first solo album.\n\nIn October 2011, with his band The Poor Fools, he recorded a version of \"I'm Down\" for \"The Beatles Complete on Ukulele\".\n\nIn January 2013, he released a CD called \"Songs from the Barn\" with his side project, The Poor Fools.\n\nOn May 4, 2014, Southside Johnny headlined at the Hoboken Arts and Music Festival with 300 artists and 30 musicians in Hoboken, New Jersey.\n\nSouthside Johnny and the Jukes most recent album, called \"Soultime!\", was released in September 2015.\n\nIn 2017, Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes appeared as themselves in the \"Sic Transit Imperium\" episode of the Showtime TV series \"Billions\", performing \"I Don't Want to Go Home\" and \"Looking for a Good Time.\" \n\n \nSource\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855738", "title": "Ostara (band)", "text": "Ostara (band)\n\nOstara is a British folk music group, \"described in the musical press as a neo-folk / pop music hybrid\", founded by Richard Leviathan (born Richard Levy) and Timothy Jenn, as a change of name and stylistic direction from their previous band, Strength Through Joy. Jenn left the band in 2001. Guitarist Stu Mason, drummer Tim Desmond, and former Bronski Beat/Communards bassist Dave Renwick left the band in 2010, as work was due to start on a new album. Leviathan is now the only member of the band. Finnish musician Kari Hatakka, known as the singer of the band Waltari, played synthesizers on some Ostara tracks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855743", "title": "Alastair Morrison, 3rd Baron Margadale", "text": "Alastair Morrison, 3rd Baron Margadale\n\nAlastair John Morrison, 3rd Baron Margadale DL (born 4 April 1958) is a British peer.\n\nMargadale is the son of James Morrison, 2nd Baron Margadale, and Clare Barclay. He married, firstly, Lady Sophia Cavendish, daughter of Andrew Cavendish, 11th Duke of Devonshire, and his wife, the Hon. Deborah (née) Mitford, on 19 July 1988. They had two children:\n\n\nHe married, secondly, Amanda Fuller, daughter of Michael Fuller, on 2 September 1999. He succeeded his father in the barony on 6 April 2003 and the same year was appointed a Deputy Lieutenant for Wiltshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855744", "title": "Star Wars: Rebellion (video game)", "text": "Star Wars: Rebellion (video game)\n\nStar Wars Rebellion (known as Supremacy in the United Kingdom and Ireland) is a real-time strategy game released in 1998 by LucasArts and set in the fictional \"Star Wars\" expanded universe.\n\nAlthough a RTS in the wider sense of the term, it belongs more to the genre of 4X games resembling \"Master of Orion\". There are elements of turn-based games as well, as the events of each 'day' of game time are processed at the end of that day. The player commands the manufacturing of facilities, troops and starships, resources, fleet deployment, and mission assignments of units and characters (60 in all: 6 major, 54 minor, 30 per side) around the (up to) 200 available systems.\n\nThe player assumes the role of a military administrator and takes control over either the Galactic Empire or Rebel Alliance. The game interface consists of a map of the Star Wars galaxy and an advisor droid (C-3PO for the Rebellion and IMP-22 for the Imperials). The map consists of sectors of 10 systems each (the number of sectors is customisable to be either 10, 15 or 20), all known from the Star Wars universe. Some of them belong to 'unknown' regions and need to be explored while known systems can be either under control of one of the two main factions or neutral at the start of the game.\n\nThe player has to undertake colonization, diplomacy, creation of buildings and units, supervising of mines, refineries, and stockpiled resources, building and commanding fleets in a tactical mode, conversion of systems to one's own side through various means, recruitment of characters, and dispatching characters or units to systems or fleets, and finally the assigning of missions to characters and special forces.\n\nMajor characters are always available at the beginning of the game, while most minor ones must be recruited. Only major characters can embark on recruitment missions. The major characters for the Alliance are Mon Mothma, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, and Leia Organa. The Empire's major characters are Darth Vader and the Emperor.\n\nMinor characters will sometimes randomly be generated Force-sensitive and can be trained by certain Jedi characters (Luke Skywalker or Darth Vader) to augment their abilities (Luke must be a Jedi Knight). Characters can also enhance their abilities by conducting missions. Characters with higher Force ratings are better at diplomacy, espionage and combat, and can therefore conduct missions with a higher chance of success.\n\nSome characters can be given military ranks by the player to put them in specific roles.\n\nThere are several kinds of buildable units. Each kind can be constructed by one of three construction facilities.\n\nAs research progresses, new units and facilities become available for construction. Research can be sped up significantly by ordering characters with the corresponding ability to conduct design missions. Characters can have the ability to research facilities, starships or troop designs.\n\nEvery element of the game has its own encyclopedia-like 'card' with a short description and abilities sheet. This amounts to a total of several hundred encyclopedia cards.\n\nThe standard objective set of each game is to take the HQ of the enemy (Coruscant or the mobile Rebel base) and capture the two leaders of the opposing side: The Alliance must capture Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine while the Empire must capture Luke Skywalker and Mon Mothma. Before starting a new game, the player may select the alternative objective set which only requires the destruction or capture of the opponent's HQ.\n\nMost of the game is played in the Galaxy view, where the player can manage different systems. When two enemy fleets meet, the player can switch to the tactical interface, which allows control over the fleet in a real-time space battle.\n\nThe game starts right after the Battle of Yavin and the destruction of the Death Star. The Galactic Empire is ready to strike back against the Rebel base of Yavin IV, while the Rebel Alliance is readying to move to another system.\n\nApart from the given time of the beginning, the game stops being story driven, and the scenario expands freely. Although events of the later movies might occur (like the capture of Han Solo by bounty hunters and the construction of a second Death Star), or are even scripted to happen, (like the Jedi training of Luke Skywalker), the player can change or avert some events of the canonical timeline, including such things as not migrating to Hoth after Yavin, having Luke become a Jedi Master before he even meets Vader or the Emperor, creating more than one Death Star or even lead the Empire into victory.\n\nFor gameplay purposes, many elements of the game are randomized at the beginning. For this reason, troop, fleet, and resource locations, as well as the allegiance of most planets, do not reflect canon information.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the PC version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"LucasArts should start looking more closely at what it slaps the \"Star Wars\" brand on, as consumers will eventually be less likely to forget or forgive.\"\n\nAccording to PC Data, \"Star Wars: Rebellion\" was the United States' 18th-best-selling computer game during the January–November 1998 period.\n\nMacWorld saw LucasArts' 2006 game \"\" as a successor to \"Rebellion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1855747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855747", "title": "Menta", "text": "Menta\n\nMenta is a sweet mint liqueur prepared from natural ingredients like spearmint oil. It is a refreshing drink popular in Bulgaria in the summertime. It is a component of some cocktails as the traditional \"Cloud\" (in Bulgarian - Облак) where it is combined with Mastika.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855753", "title": "List of New York Yankees owners and executives", "text": "List of New York Yankees owners and executives\n\nThe New York Yankees are a Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise based in The Bronx, New York City, New York. They play in the American League East division. This list consists of the owners, general managers (GMs) and other executives of the Yankees. The GM controls player transactions, hires the manager and coaching staff, and negotiates with players and agents regarding contracts.\n\nThe longest-tenured general manager in team history is Ed Barrow, who served in that role for 23 years. He was inducted in the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1953. The longest-tenured owner in team history is George Steinbrenner, who was the team's principal owner from 1973 until his death in 2010.\n\nDuring the 1901 and 1902 seasons, the franchise played in Baltimore as the \"Baltimore Orioles\". They became defunct, but were purchased by William Stephen Devery and Frank J. Farrell for $18,000 and moved to New York in 1903. Jacob Ruppert and Tillinghast L'Hommedieu Huston purchased the Yankees in 1915, and Ruppert bought out Huston in 1922.\n\nDan Topping, Larry MacPhail, and Del Webb purchased the Yankees from Ruppert's estate in 1945. Topping and Webb forced MacPhail out of the Yankees ownership group due to his confrontational behavior after the 1947 World Series. In 1964, Topping and Webb sold the team to CBS, during which time the franchise struggled. Selling the team at a loss, CBS sold the team to a group headed by George Steinbrenner in 1973. While Steinbrenner initially owned less than half of the team, he bought out many of his partners, eventually owning 70% of the team. John McMullen, one of Steinbrenner's limited partners, said, \"There is nothing in life quite so limited as being a limited partner of George Steinbrenner.\"\n\nUnder Steinbrenner's ownership, YankeeNets was formed after a merger of the business operations of the Yankees and New Jersey Nets. After the Nets were sold to Bruce Ratner, YankeeNets became a limited liability company (LLC) known as Yankee Global Enterprises. The LLC owns the Yankees and the YES Network. Hal Steinbrenner succeeded his father as control person of the Yankees in 2008.\n\nFour Yankees GMs are enshrined in the National Baseball Hall of Fame: Ed Barrow, George Weiss, Larry MacPhail, and his son, Lee MacPhail. Ralph Houk, Gene Michael, Lou Piniella, and Bob Watson were former Yankees players. Houk, Michael and Piniella served as field managers for the Yankees before becoming GM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855762", "title": "Eén", "text": "Eén\n\nEén (, stylized as één) is a public Dutch-language TV station in Belgium, owned by the VRT, which also owns Ketnet, Canvas and several radio stations. Although the channel is commercial-free, short sponsorship messages are broadcast in between some programmes.\n\nEén focuses on drama, entertainment, news and current affairs in a similar vein to BBC One in the United Kingdom. The station was formerly known as VRT TV1 until the current Eén branding was launched as part of a major station revamp on 21 January 2005, with a look created by BBC Broadcast.\n\nEén is the equivalent of its French-language counterpart, La Une, the first channel of the Belgian Francophone broadcaster, RTBF.\n\nWith its sister channel Ketnet, Eén was one of 21 stations in Europe to utilise in-vision continuity presentation. Four regular staff announcers (as of January 2014) were presenting in-vision and out-of-vision links from lunchtime until around midnight or in the early hours (if necessary) each day.\n\nThe last team of announcers was composed of:\nThe in-vision presentation was ditched on 26 July 2015. Since that day, it is replaced by out-of-vision continuity.\n\nAs of its 2007 rebrand as één, the channel uses different idents, logos, blips and a different colour scheme every season. This seasonality concept was abolished when Eén got a new look, created by Gédéon Programmes, in early 2009.\n\nForeign language programmes and segments of local TV programmes with foreign language dialogue (e.g. interviews with foreigners) are subtitled into Dutch. \n\n\nVRT offered a teletext service as of 8 May 1980 which was stopped on 1 June 2016. The page 888 is still available for subtitles. The service was used by 576,094 persons per day in 2010. The number dropped down to 123,709 in 2014. \n"}
{"id": "1855764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855764", "title": "James Morrison, 2nd Baron Margadale", "text": "James Morrison, 2nd Baron Margadale\n\nMaj James Ian Morrison, 2nd Baron Margadale TD DL (17 July 1930 – 6 April 2003) was a British peer.\n\nMorrison was the son of Major John Morrison, 1st Baron Margadale and the Honourable Margaret Esther Lucie Smith. He married Clare Barclay, daughter of Anthony Lister Barclay, on 14 October 1952. They had three children:\n\n\nHe was commissioned into the Life Guards in 1949 before transferring into the Royal Wiltshire Yeomanry and reaching the rank of Major in 1964. He was a member of Wiltshire County Council in 1955 and again from 1973 to 1977, as well as chairman of the West Wiltshire Conservative Association from 1967 to 1971. He went on to be appointed as Honorary Colonel of the Royal Wiltshire Yeomanry in 1982 and then of the Royal Wessex Yeomanry from 1984 until 1989.\n\nThe family seat is the Fonthill estate in southern Wiltshire. Morrison took over the Fonthill Stud from his father in 1972, and had success in several classic horseraces.\n"}
{"id": "1855767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855767", "title": "Bob Holman", "text": "Bob Holman\n\nBob Holman is an American poet and poetry activist, most closely identified with the oral tradition, the spoken word, and poetry slam. As a promoter of poetry in many media,Holman has spent the last four decades working variously as an author, editor, publisher, performer, emcee of live events, director of theatrical productions, producer of films and television programs, record label executive, university professor, and archivist. He was described by Henry Louis Gates Jr. in \"The New Yorker\" as \"the postmodern promoter who has done more to bring poetry to cafes and bars than anyone since Ferlinghetti.\"\n\nHolman was born in LaFollette, Tennessee in 1948 and raised in Harlan, Kentucky, the child of \"a coal miner's daughter and the only Jew in town.\" His father committed suicide when Holman was two. After his mother remarried, Holman was raised in rural Ohio. He attended Columbia College and graduated in 1970 with a degree in English. At Columbia, Holman studied with Kenneth Koch, Eric Bentley, and Michael Wood but claims that his \"major poetry schooling,\" was \"the Lower East Side, with Allen Ginsberg, John Giorno, Anne Waldman, Miguel Piñero, Hettie Jones, Ed Sanders, Amiri Baraka, Ted Berrigan, Alice Notley, Pedro Pietri, David Henderson, Steve Cannon, et al.\"\n\nSince its founding by Paul Blackburn in 1966, the St. Mark's Poetry Project in New York has been (according to John Ashbery) \"a major force in contemporary American literature.\" Holman coordinated the readings at the Poetry Project from 1977 through 1984 and was on the Project's board of directors from 1980 through 1984.\n\nSince its founding by Miguel Algarín in 1973, the Nuyorican Poets Café's purpose \"has always been to provide a stage for the artists traditionally under-represented in the mainstream media and culture.\" As co-director of the Nuyorican, Holman introduced slam poetry to the café in 1988 and emceed the venue's slams through 1996. In 1993, he founded the Nuyorican Poets Café Live!, a touring company of poets.\n\nHolman and Algarin were co-editors of the anthology entitled \"Aloud! Voices from the Nuyorican Poets Café.\" Published in 1994, \"Aloud!\" was a winner of the 1994 American Book Award from the Before Columbus Foundation.\n\nHolman is the founder and proprietor of the Bowery Poetry Club, which opened to the public in September 2002. Billed as \"a Home for Poetry,\" the club sponsors poetry events every night, and workshops and readings in the afternoons. In an interview with \"The New York Times\" shortly after the club's opening, Holman said, \"They say no one has ever gone broke running a bar in New York, but we're going to give it a shot.\" In 2004 the club won a Village Award from the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. The awards are given \"to help . . . recognize the people, places, and businesses that make a significant contribution to the legendary quality of life in Greenwich Village, The East Village and NoHo.\"\n\nIn conjunction with YBK Publishers, Holman founded Bowery Poetry Books in 2005. Since then the imprint has published 13 titles, including works by Taylor Mead, Janet Hamill, Fay Chiang, Paul L. Mills and Black Cracker. It also published an anthology entitled \"The Bowery Bartenders Big Book of Poems.\"\n\nIn 2007 Holman released a CD entitled \"The Awesome Whatever\" – produced, and with music, by Vito Ricci—on the Bowery Records label.\n\nHolman has directed and/or produced a steady stream of plays during his career, most of them written by poets. These include:\n\n\nBetween 1987 and 1993 Holman was the producer and host of \"Poetry Spots\" for WNYC-TV, a public television station in New York City. In a foreshadowing of the technique used in \"The United States of Poetry,\" each \"Poetry Spot\" was a short film built around a single poet performing a poem. The \"Poetry Spots\" series won New York Emmy Awards in 1989 and 1992.\n\nIn 2004–2005, Holman was Poet-in-Residence at WNYC-FM, a storied public radio station in New York City.\n\nIn 1994 Holman, Sekou Sundiata, Bill Adler and Jim Coffman co-founded NuYo Records, a record label devoted to the spoken word. Its first two releases, distributed in conjunction with Imago Records, included \"Grand Slam: Best of the National Poetry Slam\"\n\nThis venture was revived in 1996 as Mouth Almighty Records under the auspices of Mercury Records. Over the course of the next three years the label released 18 titles, including recordings by the Last Poets, Allen Ginsberg, and Sekou Sundiata, two CDs of short fiction from The New Yorker magazine, and a two-CD set of readings of Edgar Allan Poe produced by Hal Willner. Mouth Almighty's four-CD box set of readings by William Burroughs, produced by the poet John Giorno, was nominated for a Grammy Award in 1999.\n\nIn 1997, the Mouth Almighty slam team, coached by Holman, won the National Poetry Slam.\n\nIn 1998 Mouth Almighty released Holman's own \"In With the Out Crowd,\" produced by Hal Willner.\n\nIn 1996 Holman, director Mark Pellington, and producer Joshua Blum teamed up to create \"The United States of Poetry,\" a critically acclaimed five-part PBS television series. The program featured over 60 poets, rappers, cowboy poets, American Sign Language poets and Slammers. In a review for \"The New York Times\", John J. O'Connor wrote, \"Wandering all over the map, geographical and literary, 'The United States of Poetry' unabashedly celebrates the Word. These days, that's downright courageous.\" Identified as \"the brainchild of Bob Holman,\" the series is described as \"an excellent presentation of 20th Century poetry\" on the website of the Academy of American Poets.\n\nThe television series was accompanied into the market-place by a book and a soundtrack recording. The book, published by Abrams Books, was co-edited by Holman, Pellington, and Blum, with an introduction by Holman.\n\nThe soundtrack, underscored with music by tomandandy, was issued by Mouth Almighty Records. In a review for 'The New York Times', Stephen Holden wrote, \"The [soundtrack] illustrates how thoroughly the lines between literature and popular culture have dissolved over the last 40 years.\"\n\nAmong Holman's first teaching jobs was a stint in July 1991 at the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics, which had been founded at the Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colorado by Chogyam Trungpa, Allen Ginsberg and Anne Waldman in 1974. Holman's course was entitled \"From Rap to Zap.\" Between 1993 and 1996 Holman was a Professor of Writing at The New School for Social Research, and from 1998 through 2002 a Visiting Professor of Writing and Integrated Arts at Bard College. In 2003 Holman relocated to Columbia University's School of the Arts where, as a Visiting Professor of Writing, he taught the graduate course \"Exploding Text: Poetry Performance.\" In 2007, as a Visiting Professor at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, Holman began teaching a course called \"Art and the Public Sphere.\" From 2010 to 2016, Holman suspended his teaching activities to focus on the Endangered Language Alliance. Holman taught his oral poetry syllabus \"Exploding Text: Poetry and Performance\" at Princeton University in the fall of 2017.\n\nIn 2010, in cooperation with linguists Daniel Kaufman and Juliette Blevins, Holman founded the Endangered Language Alliance. The work, he says, comprises a mission: \"We are so in awe of the power of the book that we've forgotten the power of sound and the magic of sense nested in sound. Everybody's fighting for the preservation of species, but who's fighting for the preservation of languages, which are in fact the souls...of culture itself?\" The project has so far generated \"On the Road With Bob Holman: A Poet's Journey Into Global Cultures and Languages,\" a three-part documentary DVD focused on West Africa and Israel. Bob Holman features on Welsh artist Gai Toms' 2012 album \"Bethel\", on which he performs an improvised scat.\n\nIn 2015, with City Lore's Steve Zeitlin as producer, Holman directed the poetry film \"KHONSAY: Poem of Many Tongues\". Supported by the NEA and NYSCA, \"KHONSAY\" documents 50 speakers of endangered, minority, or treasure languages in the cento form, with one line from each speaker.\n\nProduced by David Grubin, \"Language Matters with Bob Holman\" aired nationally on PBS in January 2015. The documentary film focuses upon the rapid extinction of many of planet Earth's human languages and the multifarious struggles and efforts to save and preserve them. Holman states that \"There are between 6,000 and 7,000 languages spoken in the world today. Languages have always come and gone but what is happening today is \"a global crisis of massive proportions.\"\n\nIn his review for the journal \"Literary Kicks\", Levi Asher called \"Language Matters\" \"a delightful and captivating two-hour documentary...\"Language Matters\" appears to be a television documentary about remote cultures and faraway peoples. It turns out to be a show about us all.\"\n\nIn 2015,Alonzo Holman was awarded Ford Foundation funding to tour \"Language Matters\" throughout Alaska, and to organize poetry workshops that included speakers of Alaska's Native Languages. The screening tour and workshops were detailed by Holman in a chapter in \"Language and Globalization: An Autoethnographic Approach\", edited by Maryam Borjian and due for publication by Routledge in 2017.\n\nHolman is currently creative consultant to Alonzo King's LINES Ballet company, who are producing a ballet inspired by endangered languages which will be performed in spring 2017.\n\nNew York University's Fales Library is the home of The Bob Holman Audio/Video Poetry Collection, a multimedia collection documenting spoken word performances and productions between the years 1977 and 2002. Key items include spoken word projects featuring and/or produced by Holman himself. Marvin Taylor, director of the Fales Library, has said Holman's collection \"is a magnificent resource for anyone who cares about New York's spoken word scene during the last 40 years. No one else has such documentation.\"\n\nHolman performs poetry on a periodic basis with griot and kora player Papa Susso.\n\nIn June 2017, Holman performed with Serhiy Zhadan as part of the show \"1917–2017: Tychyna, Zhadan and The Dogs\" at the La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club, directed by Virlana Tkacz.\n\n\n\nHolman was married to artist Elizabeth Murray until her death in 2007. The couple had two daughters, both born in the early 1980s: Sophia Murray Holman and Daisy Murray Holman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855785", "title": "List of Slovenian musicians", "text": "List of Slovenian musicians\n\nThis is a list of notable Slovene musicians by instrument. For a list of notable popular Slovenian musical groups and artists see List of Slovenian musical artists and groups.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855786", "title": "Jost Gross", "text": "Jost Gross\n\nJost Gross (March 1, 1946 – May 6, 2005) was a Swiss politician of the Social Democratic Party. From 1995 to his death he had a seat in the National Council.\n\nGross was born in Flawil, Switzerland. He was educated as a lawyer and taught at the University of St. Gallen. From 1979 to 1987 he belonged to the executive branch of Steckborn. From 1980 to 1984 he was in the legislative of the canton of Thurgau (\"Grosser Rat\"). Also from 1980 to 1984 he was president of the Social Democratic party in Thurgau. He was president of the trade union Thurgau (\"Gewerkschaftsbund\") and Pro Mente Sana since 1994. In 1995 he was elected to the National Council as a representative for Thurgau.\n\nHe died while playing football at an international parliamentary tourney in Waldenburg, Baden-Württemberg, Germany.\n\nHis successor in the National Council was Edith-Graf Litscher who was sworn in on May 30, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855793", "title": "Self-Portrait with Seven Fingers", "text": "Self-Portrait with Seven Fingers\n\nSelf-Portrait with Seven Fingers is an oil painting by Belarusian painter Marc Chagall, painted in 1913 in France. It is part of the Chagall collection at the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855796", "title": "Gospel of Matthias", "text": "Gospel of Matthias\n\nThe Gospel of Matthias is a lost text from the New Testament apocrypha, ascribed to Matthias, the apostle chosen by lots to replace Judas Iscariot (Acts 1:15–26). The content has been surmised from various descriptions of it in ancient works by church fathers. There is too little evidence to decide whether a Traditions of Matthias is the same work, according to J.B. Matthews, \"The Anchor Bible Dictionary\" (IV:644).\n\nThis Gospel is lost, but Clement of Alexandria while describing the Nicolaitanes, quotes a sentence ascribed to Matthias urging asceticism: \"we must combat our flesh, set no value upon it, and concede to it nothing that can flatter it, but rather increase the growth of our soul by faith and knowledge\". The \"Gospel of Matthias\" was mentioned by Origen of Alexandria; by Eusebius, who attributes it to heretics; by Jerome, and in the Decretum Gelasianum which declares it apocryphal. It comes at the end of the list of the Biblical Canon in the \"Codex Baroccianus\" 206, formerly in the library of Francesco Barozzi (\"Barocius\") of Venice. \n\nThis lost gospel is probably the document whence Clement of Alexandria quoted several passages, saying that they were borrowed from the traditions of Matthias, \"Paradoseis\", the testimony of which he claimed to have been invoked by the heretics Valentinus, Marcion, and Basilides. According to \"Philosophoumena\", VII.20, Basilides quoted apocryphal discourses that he attributed to Matthias. These three writings: the Gospel, the Traditions, and the apocryphal Discourses were reckoned, by Theodor Zahn, as referring to a single work. But Adolf von Harnack denied this identification.\n\nA fictional copy of the gospel is used in the HBO series \"Carnivàle\", where it describes the show's mythological creatures, the Usher of Destruction and Avatara. A fictionalized version of the gospel is also the subject of Wilton Barnhardt's 1993 novel, \"\". The novel relates the search for and finding of Matthias' lost work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855798", "title": "Feodosy Krasovsky", "text": "Feodosy Krasovsky\n\nFeodosy Nikolaevich Krasovsky () ( – October 1, 1948) was a Russian and later Soviet astronomer and geodesist. He was born in Galich. In 1900 he graduated from the \"Mezhevoy\" (land surveying) \"Institute\" in Moscow; in 1907 he began working as a lecturer there.\n\nAt the end of 1928 the \"Central Research Institute of Geodesy, Aerial Surveying and Cartography\" (TsNIIGAiK) was founded on his initiative; he worked there as a director (1928–1930) and as a deputy director of science (1930–1937). Between 1924 and 1930 Krasovsky headed astronomical, geodetical and cartographical works in the USSR. He worked out the theory and methods of construction of the national geodetical network of the USSR and solved related problems of topography and gravimetry works. Krasovsky and another Soviet geodesist, Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Izotov, in 1940 defined dimensions of an ellipsoid which was named the Krasovsky ellipsoid and was later used as a reference ellipsoid in the USSR and other countries until the 1990s. In 1939 Krasovsky became the Corresponding Member of the USSR Academy of Sciences.\n\nKrasovsky died in Moscow in 1948.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855800", "title": "Nelson Sullivan", "text": "Nelson Sullivan\n\nJohn Nelson Sullivan (March 15, 1948 – July 4, 1989) was an American videographer. He was ubiquitous on the New York City downtown art and club scene during the 1980s. His videos are now stored on a YouTube channel named 5ninthavenueproject.\n\nSullivan was born on March 15, 1948, in Kershaw, South Carolina. His family was upper-middle class, and from an early age he was given music lessons, with consideration for a career as a classical pianist. After graduating from Davidson College in North Carolina in 1970, he moved to New York, part of the post-Stonewall wave of young gay men who were then heading to either San Francisco or Manhattan. He rented a studio apartment in the West Village and soon made a decision to pursue a career as a composer. By day, Sullivan worked at Joseph Patelson Music House, the classical music store behind Carnegie Hall. He moved from apartment to apartment over the next ten years.\n\nIn 1980, he saw a building on the corner of Gansevoort and 9th Avenue in the Meat Packing District with a rental sign on the door. Sullivan purchased the duplex and soon renovated the building to be his own salon. It also became a hotel, way-station, and halfway house for people either visiting or moving to the city. Artists, musicians, and performers dropped by at all hours to hang out, the ongoing 24-hour salon gave Sullivan the idea to begin videotaping his life. Nelson's constant companion was a Flat-Coated Retriever named Blackout.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Sullivan began to make use of inexpensive handheld video cameras then coming on the market. Using first a VHS-loading camera and later upgrading to an 8mm video camera, he shot over 1,900 hours of tape over a period of seven years, filming himself and his friends in Manhattan's downtown life. He sought to tape all of New York's citizens, including its outcasts. He taped anything and everything that interested him—performances in bars and clubs, house parties, gallery openings, park and street festivals, late-night ruminations of his friends, conversations with taxi drivers, sunset walks with his dog on the west side piers, and a variety of behavior on the part of people he met on the streets of New York City.\n\nAs well as a frequenter of the galleries, clubs, and bars of the Lower East Side and Greenwich Village, Sullivan was on the periphery of the Warhol crowd's later incarnations, headquartered further north at 17th and Broadway, and at Max's Kansas City on Park Avenue South. He counted among his friends a variety of that scene's characters, such as Andy's young friend Benjamin Liu, singer Joey Arias, fashion designer Alexis Del Lago, and actress Sylvia Miles. All of these, with the exception of Miles, were drag queens. Sullivan's films of his friends' crossdressing was to become a leitmotif of his work. That can be seen in the footage of Guy Bernotas' 1982 production of Momma Said..., entirely shot by Sullivan. In the late 1980s, Sullivan renovated a three-story former carriage house into a \"factory\" at 5 Ninth Ave, in New York's Meatpacking District. With a cast that included RuPaul, DJ Larry Tee, Lahoma Van Zant, Lady Bunny, Michael Musto, artist Albert Crudo.\n\nHe chronicled the rise and fall of many of his friends and peers including, Ethyl Eichelberger, John Sex, Keith Haring, Tom Rubnitz and Michael Alig.\n\nOn July 4, 1989, Sullivan died of a heart attack aged 41. He had quit his full-time job just three days prior to his death in order to produce his own cable television show of his footage. His last footage—filmed hours before he died—is on YouTube as part of the 5 Ninth Avenue Project.\n\nIn October 2012, New York University's Fales Library & Special Collections accepted the Nelson Sullivan Video Archive as a donation from Atlantans Dick Richards and David Goldman, and Robert Coddington of Durham, N.C. (operating collectively as the 5 Ninth Avenue Project).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855810", "title": "Gospel of the Four Heavenly Realms", "text": "Gospel of the Four Heavenly Realms\n\nThe Gospel of the Four Heavenly Realms is a lost text from the New Testament apocrypha.\n\nThe content has been surmised from various descriptions of it in ancient works by church fathers. It is thought to be a gnostic text, in which aspects of their esoteric cosmology were expounded, probably framed in the form of a dialogue between Jesus and the Apostles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855811", "title": "Volume form", "text": "Volume form\n\nIn mathematics, a volume form on a differentiable manifold is a top-dimensional form (i.e., a differential form of top degree). Thus on a manifold formula_1 of dimension formula_2, a volume form is an formula_2-form, a section of the line bundle formula_4. A manifold admits a nowhere-vanishing volume form if and only if it is orientable. An orientable manifold has infinitely many volume forms, since multiplying a volume form by a function yields another volume form. On non-orientable manifolds, one may instead define the weaker notion of a density.\n\nA volume form provides a means to define the integral of a function on a differentiable manifold. In other words, a volume form gives rise to a measure with respect to which functions can be integrated by the appropriate Lebesgue integral. The absolute value of a volume form is a volume element, which is also known variously as a \"twisted volume form\" or \"pseudo-volume form\". It also defines a measure, but exists on any differentiable manifold, orientable or not.\n\nKähler manifolds, being complex manifolds, are naturally oriented, and so possess a volume form. More generally, the formula_2th exterior power of the symplectic form on a symplectic manifold is a volume form. Many classes of manifolds have canonical volume forms: they have extra structure which allows the choice of a preferred volume form. Oriented pseudo-Riemannian manifolds have an associated canonical volume form.\n\nA manifold is orientable if it has a coordinate atlas all of whose transition functions have positive Jacobian determinants. A selection of a maximal such atlas is an orientation on formula_1. A volume form formula_7 on formula_1 gives rise to an orientation in a natural way as the atlas of coordinate charts on formula_1 that send formula_7 to a positive multiple of the Euclidean volume form formula_11.\n\nA volume form also allows for the specification of a preferred class of frames on formula_1. Call a basis of tangent vectors formula_13 right-handed if\n\nThe collection of all right-handed frames is acted upon by the group formula_15 of general linear mappings in formula_2 dimensions with positive determinant. They form a principal formula_15 sub-bundle of the linear frame bundle of formula_1, and so the orientation associated to a volume form gives a canonical reduction of the frame bundle of formula_1 to a sub-bundle with structure group formula_15. That is to say that a volume form gives rise to formula_15-structure on formula_1. More reduction is clearly possible by considering frames that have\n\nThus a volume form gives rise to an formula_23-structure as well. Conversely, given an formula_23-structure, one can recover a volume form by imposing () for the special linear frames and then solving for the required formula_2-form formula_7 by requiring homogeneity in its arguments.\n\nA manifold is orientable if and only if it has a volume form. Indeed, formula_27 is a deformation retract since formula_28, where the positive reals are embedded as scalar matrices. Thus every formula_15-structure is reducible to an formula_23-structure, and formula_15-structures coincide with orientations on formula_1. More concretely, triviality of the determinant bundle formula_33 is equivalent to orientability, and a line bundle is trivial if and only if it has a nowhere-vanishing section. Thus the existence of a volume form is equivalent to orientability.\n\nGiven a volume form formula_7 on an oriented manifold, the density formula_35 is a volume pseudo-form on the nonoriented manifold obtained by forgetting the orientation. Densities may also be defined more generally on non-orientable manifolds.\n\nAny volume pseudo-form formula_7 (and therefore also any volume form) defines a measure on the Borel sets by\n\nThe difference is that while a measure can be integrated over a (Borel) \"subset\", a volume form can only be integrated over an \"oriented\" cell. In single variable calculus, writing formula_38 considers formula_39 as a volume form, not simply a measure, and formula_40 indicates \"integrate over the cell formula_41 with the opposite orientation, sometimes denoted formula_42\".\n\nFurther, general measures need not be continuous or smooth: they need not be defined by a volume form, or more formally, their Radon–Nikodym derivative with respect to a given volume form need not be absolutely continuous.\n\nGiven a volume form \"ω\" on \"M\", one can define the divergence of a vector field \"X\" as the unique scalar-valued function, denoted by div \"X\", satisfying\n\nwhere \"L\" denotes the Lie derivative along \"X\" and formula_44 denotes the interior product or the left contraction of \"ω\" along \"X\". If \"X\" is a compactly supported vector field and \"M\" is a manifold with boundary, then Stokes' theorem implies\n\nwhich is a generalization of the divergence theorem.\n\nThe solenoidal vector fields are those with . It follows from the definition of the Lie derivative that the volume form is preserved under the flow of a solenoidal vector field. Thus solenoidal vector fields are precisely those that have volume-preserving flows. This fact is well-known, for instance, in fluid mechanics where the divergence of a velocity field measures the compressibility of a fluid, which in turn represents the extent to which volume is preserved along flows of the fluid.\n\nFor any Lie group, a natural volume form may be defined by translation. That is, if \"ω\" is an element of formula_46, then a left-invariant form may be defined by formula_47, where \"L\" is left-translation. As a corollary, every Lie group is orientable. This volume form is unique up to a scalar, and the corresponding measure is known as the Haar measure.\n\nAny symplectic manifold (or indeed any almost symplectic manifold) has a natural volume form. If \"M\" is a 2\"n\"-dimensional manifold with symplectic form \"ω\", then \"ω\" is nowhere zero as a consequence of the nondegeneracy of the symplectic form. As a corollary, any symplectic manifold is orientable (indeed, oriented). If the manifold is both symplectic and Riemannian, then the two volume forms agree if the manifold is Kähler.\n\nAny oriented pseudo-Riemannian (including Riemannian) manifold has a natural volume form. In local coordinates, it can be expressed as\nwhere the formula_49 are 1-forms that form a positively oriented basis for the cotangent bundle of the manifold. Here, formula_50 is the absolute value of the determinant of the matrix representation of the metric tensor on the manifold.\n\nThe volume form is denoted variously by\n\nHere, the formula_52 is the Hodge star, thus the last form, formula_53, emphasizes that the volume form is the Hodge dual of the constant map on the manifold, which equals the Levi-Civita \"tensor\" \"ε\".\n\nAlthough the Greek letter \"ω\" is frequently used to denote the volume form, this notation is not universal; the symbol \"ω\" often carries many other meanings in differential geometry (such as a symplectic form).\n\nVolume forms are not unique; they form a torsor over non-vanishing functions on the manifold, as follows. Given a non-vanishing function \"f\" on \"M\", and a volume form formula_7, \nformula_55 is a volume form on \"M\". Conversely, given two volume forms formula_56, their ratio is a non-vanishing function (positive if they define the same orientation, negative if they define opposite orientations).\n\nIn coordinates, they are both simply a non-zero function times Lebesgue measure, and their ratio is the ratio of the functions, which is independent of choice of coordinates. Intrinsically, it is the Radon–Nikodym derivative of formula_57 with respect to formula_7. On an oriented manifold, the proportionality of any two volume forms can be thought of as a geometric form of the Radon–Nikodym theorem.\n\nA volume form on a manifold has no local structure in the sense that it is not possible on small open sets to distinguish between the given volume form and the volume form on Euclidean space . That is, for every point \"p\" in \"M\", there is an open neighborhood \"U\" of \"p\" and a diffeomorphism \"φ\" of \"U\" onto an open set in R such that the volume form on \"U\" is the pullback of formula_11 along \"φ\".\n\nAs a corollary, if \"M\" and \"N\" are two manifolds, each with volume forms formula_60, then for any points formula_61, there are open neighborhoods \"U\" of \"m\" and \"V\" of \"n\" and a map formula_62 such that the volume form on \"N\" restricted to the neighborhood \"V\" pulls back to volume form on \"M\" restricted to the neighborhood \"U\": formula_63.\n\nIn one dimension, one can prove it thus:\ngiven a volume form formula_7 on formula_65, define\nThen the standard Lebesgue measure formula_39 pulls back to formula_7 under \"f\": formula_69. Concretely, formula_70. In higher dimensions, given any point formula_71, it has a neighborhood locally homeomorphic to formula_72, and one can apply the same procedure.\n\nA volume form on a connected manifold \"M\" has a single global invariant, namely the (overall) volume (denoted formula_73), which is invariant under volume-form preserving maps; this may be infinite, such as for Lebesgue measure on formula_74. On a disconnected manifold, the volume of each connected component is the invariant.\n\nIn symbols, if formula_75 is a homeomorphism of manifolds that pulls back formula_76 to formula_77, then\n\nand the manifolds have the same volume.\n\nVolume forms can also be pulled back under covering maps, in which case they multiply volume by the cardinality of the fiber (formally, by integration along the fiber). In the case of an infinite sheeted cover (such as formula_79), a volume form on a finite volume manifold pulls back to a volume form on an infinite volume manifold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855818", "title": "Going Live!", "text": "Going Live!\n\nGoing Live! was a Saturday-morning magazine show, broadcast on BBC1 between 1987 and 1993. It was presented by Phillip Schofield and Sarah Greene.\n\nOther presenters included Trevor and Simon, Peter Simon, Emma Forbes, Mark Chase and puppet Gordon the Gopher.\n\nThe show was broadcast during the autumn to spring seasons, with other shows such as \"\" and \"Parallel 9\" taking over during the summer months. It was preceded by \"Saturday Superstore\", and succeeded by \"Live & Kicking\".\n\nIn 1988, when the second series started, Greene was hurt in a helicopter crash with her then boyfriend (who subsequently became her husband), Mike Smith. Guest presenters stood in for her including T'Pau's Carol Decker. Similarly, in 1992–93 during the final series, Schofield was starring in \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\" and was unable to present the show even though he was offered £1,500,000 per show. A third presenter took his place. Originally, \"Neighbours\" actor Kristian Schmid took the role but soon left after problems with his work permit. Various other celebrities to stand in included Shane Richie and Robbie Williams during his Take That days.\n\n\"Double Dare\" was presented by Peter Simon, and it was best known for Simon to fall, during the final round, into the Gunge. It was replaced in later series of \"Going Live!\", first by \"Clockwise\", presented by Darren Day, and then by \"Run the Risk\", which was again presented by Simon. The latter of these shows continued onto \"Live & Kicking\", Double Dare was brought back in 2020 and was hosted by Cat Henstridge of The Pets Factor fame during Saturday Mash-Up!.\n\nPhillip Hodson provided 'agony uncle' advice to young callers on diverse and often difficult topics in \"Growing Pains\". The topics ranged from love troubles and general teenage angst, to more severe topics such as child abuse and AIDS, which were uncharacteristically deep issues for a Saturday morning youth programme.\n\nIn this segment, the show's producers would arrange for popular musical groups and performers to pay surprise visits to their fans.\n\nThe big set-piece interview at the end of each programme, featuring questions from both the studio audience and from phone callers. These were often with politicians, high-ranking executives in the BBC, or people who had made a notable achievement (e.g. sports people who had success at the Olympics).\n\nThis was a phone-in section where the viewing public were encouraged to cast their opinions on the popular music videos of the time, which were then shown according to popularity.\n\nThese two anchormen (who were essentially clowns) provided light-hearted humour and character comedy. Popular characters played by the duo included:\n\nThey were replaced in series five by Nick Ball and James Hickish, but returned for the last series.\n\nDuring its run, the show made several broadcasts from outside the confines of the studio. These included:\n\n\n\"Going Live!\" had their own section on the BBC's \"It Started With Swap Shop\" featuring classic clips of the show. It is presented as elevator employees recalling favoured parts of the show.\n\nIn 1992, the show's opening sequence of a 'colourbars army preparing to Go Live', was nominated for a Bafta Award, created by the BBC Design team consisting of Morgan Almeida, Mark Knight and Paul Baguley.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855823", "title": "Gospel of Perfection", "text": "Gospel of Perfection\n\nThe Gospel of Perfection is a lost text from the New Testament apocrypha. The text is mentioned in ancient anti-heretical works by the church fathers. It is thought to be a gnostic text of the Ophites, and is believed by some to be the same as the Gospel of Eve, though the words of Saint Epiphanius implied that they were separate Gospels. Some others also believe that it was the same as the Gospel of Philip. In regards to the Gospel, Epiphanius stated, \nThe Gospel of Perfection is also briefly discussed in the Gospel of the Infancy where, after a \"lengthy account of the miracles performed by Christ while a child in Egypt\", it states,\n\nIn mystery religions, the term \"perfect\" had a special meaning, namely that someone who was a \"perfect\" had achieved total enlightenment. This is similar in some ways to the concept of achieving Nirvana within Buddhism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855828", "title": "Australian Rules (film)", "text": "Australian Rules (film)\n\nAustralian Rules, is a 2002 drama film directed by Paul Goldman and starring Nathan Phillips, Luke Carroll, Tom Budge, Brian Torry and Lisa Flanagan. The film was adapted from the novels \"Deadly, Unna?\" (1998) and \"Nukkan Ya\" by Phillip Gwynne. The film is about a young man experiencing the hardships of growing up in rural South Australia. In particular, it deals with the issue of racial relationships through the central characters, their involvement in local Australian rules football, and Aboriginal players. The film was launched at the Adelaide Festival of Arts on 5 March 2002, and nationwide on 29 August 2002.\n\nIn the isolated and fictional South Australian fishing town of Prospect Bay, the only thing that connects the black and white communities is football. Gary \"Blacky\" Black (Nathan Phillips) and Dumby Red (Luke Carroll) are an exception; teenage best friends from different sides of the tracks. Dumby is the star of the football team and likely to become the next big Aboriginal star in the big leagues. Gary is the bookish son of hard-drinking and brutal white fisherman Bob Black (Simon Westaway). He is attracted to Dumby's beautiful sister, Clarence (Lisa Flanagan). Blacky's supportive mother helps him become a better player as he is chosen to be the ruckman in the teams upcoming grand final. Blacky has to overcome Thumper, the star player for the opposition. When gameday arrives Blacky at first struggles to make an impact on the game but Dumby inspires the team kicking several goals. When Dumby gets a mark near goals with the scores tied he hands it off to a team mate instead of taking the shot. The player kicks a point and Blacky has to run into Thumper to stop him from kicking the winning goal. Their team wins the premiership, but Dumby and Blacky's elation is short-lived. Dumby is passed over for the best-on-ground medal for the coach's son Simon Robertson. Dumby is disgusted and angered by the obvious racially motivated decision.\n\nDisgruntled, Dumby and his cousin Pretty (Tony Briggs) attempt to rob the bar where the celebrations were held, hoping to find the best-on-ground medal. After breaking into the bar, they meet the drunk owner, beat him into unconsciousness and proceed to the safe with the key found in his pocket. Bob, waking to find the owner unconscious with a head wound, heads to the office and loads a double-barrelled shotgun. Bob sneaks up behind Dumby and fires a shot into the figure in the darkness. Bob discovers he has killed Dumby. Pretty, who has been hiding behind the door, jumps him and points the gun at his neck. Pretty reveals himself by removing his makeshift balaclava. He does not shoot Bob but fires the remaining round into the ceiling and runs away into the darkness. Bob is questioned by police over the shooting but is let off on the grounds of self-defense. Blacky is devastated over Dumby's death and angrily tosses his premiership medal into the lake. Clarence and Blacky console each other and fall in love. Bob and the family are greeted with hostility and harassed by some local Aboriginal people which only further fuels Bob's violent temper and bigotry.\n\nClarence sneaks into Blacky's room one night and they make love. The next morning Bob discovers them in bed and beats Blacky. He racially insults Clarence and throws her out. Fed up with his father, Blacky leaves. Blacky meets with Dumby's family and attends his funeral. He acquires the best on ground medal and places it in Dumby's casket. After returning home he is confronted by Bob and is told he is no longer welcome in his house due to his relationship with Clarence. Blacky defiantly stands still even after Bob punches him repeatedly. Defeated and exhausted, Bob leaves the family never to come back. The football team is disbanded as no Aboriginal players show up to training or games. The film ends with Blacky and Clarence jumping into the lake and swimming in the water. Blacky narrates that they will both be leaving soon, as there is nothing left for them in this town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855831", "title": "Rick Turner (luthier)", "text": "Rick Turner (luthier)\n\nRick Turner (born July 30, 1943) is an American builder of guitars and basses.\n\nTurner co-founded Alembic Inc in 1969 and was involved in the design and construction of the Alembic instruments. He founded Rick Turner Guitars\nin 1979 and joined Gibson in 1988 where he served as president of Gibson Labs West Coast R&D Division.\n\nTurner left Gibson in 1992 and ran a guitar repair shop at Westwood Music in Los Angeles where he developed piezo pickup designs, working with Jackson Browne, David Crosby and others. He later co-founded Highlander Musical Audio, manufacturer of piezo pickups for acoustic guitars.\nHe continues to design and build guitars for many professional players including Lindsey Buckingham, Ry Cooder, David Lindley, David Crosby and Andy Summers. He is also a regular columnist for \"Acoustic Guitar\" magazine and was a former columnist for \"Bass Player\", \"Frets\" and \"Guitar Player\" magazines. He partnered with Seymour W. Duncan to form D-TAR.\n\nThe Turner Model 1 electric was designed by Turner in 1979 for use by Fleetwood Mac guitarist Lindsey Buckingham, who continues to use the Model 1 to this day.\nThe guitar pioneered the use of curved plates on the front and back in order to reduce standing wave hysteresis loss and the use of 18 volt preamps in an attempt to tame the 'quack' sound commonly associated with piezoelectric acoustic guitar pickups.\n\nTurner helped engineer the Grateful Dead's \"Wall of Sound.\"\n\nTurner holds the patent on the graphite guitar neck, which he developed in 1976 with Geoff Gould (who then started Modulus Graphite).\n\nTurner teaches \"Build a mandolin in four days\" courses in the US and Australia and is extremely active on a wide range of musical instrument Internet forums.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855838", "title": "Gospel of Eve", "text": "Gospel of Eve\n\nThe Gospel of Eve is an almost entirely lost text from the New Testament apocrypha, which may be the same as the also lost Gospel of Perfection. \n\nThe only known content from it are a few quotations by Epiphanius (\"Panarion\", 26), a church father who criticised how the Borborites used it to justify free love, by practicing coitus interruptus and eating semen as a religious act. While certain libertine Gnostics held that, since the flesh is intrinsically evil, one should simply acknowledge it by freely engaging in sexual acts, the majority of the Gnostics took the opposite view of extreme asceticism.\n\nGnostics typically wrote on multiple levels, imbuing texts with complicated mystical esoteric meaning, rather than intending a base interpretation. It is possible that Epiphanius failed to realise this and only read into the text a simple literal interpretation. The quotation Epiphanius claims is a reference to semen is:\n\nWhile this second passage from their \"apocryphal writings,\" says Epiphanius, was meant to represent the menstrual cycle (it is unclear if he is quoting ): \n\nAccording to the Naassenes, this reflected the \"Seeds disseminated into the cosmos from the Inexpressible [Man], by means of which the whole cosmos is consummated.\" The scattering of the Logos and its subsequent collection recalls the myths of Osiris and Dionysus. A similar theme of Osirification is present in a \"Gospel of Philip,\" quoted by Epiphanius in the same chapter:\n\n"}
{"id": "1855840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855840", "title": "Orne (Moselle)", "text": "Orne (Moselle)\n\nThe Orne is a river in Lorraine, north-eastern France, which is a left tributary of the Moselle and sub-tributary of the Rhine. Its source is in the hills northeast of Verdun. It flows east and joins the Moselle near Mondelange, between Metz and Thionville.\n\n\"Orne\" may originate from \"autura\" (a river, \"cf.\" Eure), or \"onna\" (a river) as mentioned in Endlicher's glossary of Gallic names \"De nominibus Gallicis\", in which these words are translated into Latin as \"flumen\".\n\nIf so, then there is no relationship with the name of the Orne river in Normandy, which is referred to as the \"Olina\" by Ptolemy, a homonym of \"Fluvius Olne\", the Orne saosnoise in Sarthe, which Xavier Delamarre traces back to the Celtic \"olīnā\" (elbow).\n\nThe Orne is long.\nIt rises at an elevation of in the Côtes de Meuse, in the commune of Ornes. It flows through Étain, Conflans-en-Jarnisy, Auboué, Homécourt, Jœuf, Moyeuvre-Grande, Rosselange, Rombas, Clouange, Vitry-sur-Orne, Gandrange and Richemont, where it joins the Moselle at an elevation of .\n\nThe people of the Pays Orne-Moselle and Pays de l'Orne communes have formed an association for the creation of a riverside trail named \"Fil Bleu\" (\"Blue Thread\") or \"Promenade des Berges de l'Orne\" (\"Promenade of the banks of the Orne\"), which will extend the length of the riverbed.\nCurrently the trail extends about between the communes of Rombas/Clouange and Valleroy, and is either concrete or macadamised over all of this length. Between Rombas/Clouange and Rosselange, it exists on both sides of the river.\n\nThe section of about from Joeuf to the naval base at Homècourt is marked by a number of bridges and footbridges permitting passage from one bank to the other. Two of these footbridges are however no longer passable: the \"passerelle de Moyeuvre Grande\" (for which a detour via road bridge exists) and the \"passerelle de la base nautique d'Homècourt\".\n\nThe trail is frequently used by both pedestrians and cyclists, as well as by those on rollerblades. It crosses the communes of Rombas, Clouange, Rosselange, Moyeuvre Grande, Joeuf, Homècourt, Aubouè, Moineville and Valleroy.\nSince 2011, the trail has been extended from its prior endpoint to the commune of Amnéville-les-Thermes. Between of it have been built and are being maintained by the municipality of Rombas.\n\nThe Orne's principal tributaries and subtributaries are:\nThe Orne is also fed by water pumped out of the mines at Jarny, Giraumont, Auboué and Orne-Roncourt.\n\nThe Orne is a substantial river, similar to its neighbours in the West Lorraine region which rise in the Côtes de Meuse.\n\nThe Orne's flow rate has been measured over a period of 40 years (1967–2007) at Rosselange, in the Moselle department a short way upstream of the confluence. The watershed of the Orne at Rosselange is , almost its entire watershed of .\n\nThe mean annual flow rate, or discharge of the river at Rosselange is .\n\nThe Orne exhibits strongly marked seasonal fluctuations, such as are very often found in the east of France, with high water in winter/spring bringing the monthly average up to between from December to March inclusive, with a maximum in February. Summer low waters are quite prolonged, from June to early October, with a low monthly average of in September. These monthly figures, however, are just averages, and conceal even more pronounced short-term variation.\nMonthly average flow rate in m/s measured at Rosselange hydrological stationData taken over a 41-year period \n\nAt low water, the 3-year low instantaneous flow rate can drop to , as is seen frequently for rivers of the region.\n\nFlooding of the Orne can be very significant. The maximum instantaneous flow rate ever recorded was on 22 December 2003, while the maximum recorded daily average was on the preceding day. The Orne's instantaneous maximum flow rate for 2 and 5 years (IMFR2 and IMFR5) are respectively; the IMFR10 is , the IMFR20 is , and the IMFR50 is . These figures indicate that the flood of December 2003 was, roughly speaking, a 20-year event and thus not particularly unusual. The Orne's IMFRs are over half that of the Meurthe, the Moselle's most significant French tributary and whose basin is almost 2.5 time larger.\n\nTo compare with a significant river in the Paris basin, the Loing, a river known for its substantial flooding, has an IMFR10 of as against for the Orne, and its IMFR50 reaches only as against for the Orne. This is despite the Loing's watershed being three and a half times larger than the Orne.\n\nThe Orne is fed by heavy rainfall in the western part of its watershed. The runoff curve number in its watershed is annually, which is almost equal to the average of all France, but clearly less than the average in the French part of the Moselle basin, at Hauconcourt. The specific flow rate reaches 10.3 litres per second per square kilometre of watershed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855841", "title": "2005 Hoboken mayoral election", "text": "2005 Hoboken mayoral election\n\nThe Hoboken election of 2005 is an election that was held on May 10, 2005 in Hoboken, New Jersey for Hoboken residents, in which the Mayor of Hoboken was chosen based on the number of votes. However, none of the five mayoral candidate was able to obtain at least 50% of the vote. The top two vote-getters, David Roberts and Carol Marsh, ran on June 14 in a runoff election, and Roberts won 5,761 to 4,239 (votes). In the May 10 election, Roberts got 39% of the votes and Marsh got 27% of the vote.\n\nThere were also 17 people running for 3 at-large seats on the Hoboken City Council, but in the same manner as those running for mayor, no candidate could get a majority, so the 6 people running for council that got the most votes were in the June 14 runoff election (everyone on Robert's team and everyone on Marsh's team). Since the start of the election, there were only 3 spots available on the council, so only 3 of the 17 running for Hoboken City Council (17.6%) would be successful. Those 3 people are now going to be people from Roberts' team. Each position that the candidates were running for is a 4-year term.\n\nThere was a miscommunication on the night of May 10, 2005, when the people at Roberts' headquarters announced over a megaphone to a crowd of supporters that Roberts was going to win the election. Either they didn't get the correct information in time, or they came to a conclusion too quickly, because an hour after the announcement it was found that neither Roberts nor Marsh had gained 50% of the vote (which is required).\n\nEvelyn Smith, the vice president of the Hoboken NAACP, came in last with only 289 votes. However, Smith wasn't upset with her defeat, saying \"It was pretty much what I expected.\"\n\nIndependent Scott Delea also knew from the very start that his chances of winning were small. The Hoboken Reporter Volume 22 Number 37 said the following about Delea: \"[Delea] received an extremely strong showing for a political newcomer. Internet marketing executive Scott Delea obtained [1,336] votes. That total means that about 13 percent of all voters pushed the lever for Delea. With little budget but a strong work ethic, Delea was able to beat out the entire slates of Smith and Russo, which is no small feat.\" In an advertisement in the Hoboken Reporter Volume 22 Number 36, Scott Delea said the following: \"When you vote for a political team, you're voting for people pledged to represent a mayoral candidate's interests. When you vote for an independent, such as myself, you're electing a Council voice that represents \"your\" interests.\" However, despite his attempt, Delea was unable to win.\n\n\n\n\"The Hoboken Reporter, Volume 22, Number 35\"\n"}
{"id": "1855843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855843", "title": "Gospel of the Twelve", "text": "Gospel of the Twelve\n\nThe Gospel of the Twelve (), possibly also referred to as the \"Gospel of the Apostles\", is a lost gospel mentioned by Origen in \"Homilies on Luke\" as part of a list of heretical works.\n\nSchneemelcher's standard edition of the \"New Testament Apocrypha\" states that Jerome incorrectly identified the \"Gospel of the Twelve\", which he referred to as the \"Gospel according to the Apostles\", with the Gospel of the Hebrews (\"Dial. adv. Pelag. III 2\"), whereas Origen clearly distinguished between them (\"Homilies on Luke\" 1.1). Ambrose and Bede may have also made allusions to it. A relationship has been postulated between this otherwise unknown gospel and the Gospel of the Ebionites.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855855", "title": "Gospel of the Seventy", "text": "Gospel of the Seventy\n\nThe Gospel of the Seventy is a lost text from the New Testament apocrypha. The title of the text refers to the number of disciples sent by Jesus to preach in Luke's Gospel (quoted in some manuscripts as 72).\n\nThe Manicheans appear to have referred to the Gospel of Mani by this title, and as such it may be the same text.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855861", "title": "You Should Be So Lucky", "text": "You Should Be So Lucky\n\nYou Should Be So Lucky! was a BBC children's television programme broadcast in 1986/87. It was hosted by Colin Bennett in the character of Vince Purity.\n\nIt was a game show, during which contestants played on a giant snakes and ladders board. Points were earned by their team partners through talent tasks (such as singing, or physical games).\n\nColin Bennett had 4 assistants, 3 young girls, and a boy. The girls would introduce themselves as 'April', 'May', and 'June' at the start of the show. The boy's name was Alex, but Colin Bennett occasionally jokingly referred to him as 'July' in the show. The assistants were called \"Purettes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1855862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855862", "title": "Trituration", "text": "Trituration\n\nTrituration is the name of several different methods used to process materials. In one sense, it is a form of comminution (reducing the particle size of a substance). In another sense, it is the production of a homogeneous material by mixing component materials thoroughly. For example, a dental amalgam is formed by combining particles of a metal, usually gold or silver, with mercury. \n\nIn organic chemistry, trituration is a process used to purify crude chemical compounds containing soluble impurities. A solvent is chosen in which the desired product is insoluble and the undesired by-products are very soluble or vice versa. For example, when the impurities are soluble and the desired product is not, the crude material is washed with the solvent and filtered, leaving the purified product in solid form and any impurities in solution.\n\nIn pharmacology, \"trituration\" can also refer to the process of grinding one compound into another to dilute one of the ingredients, add volume for processing and handling, or to mask undesirable qualities. For example, the amount of hormone in a dose of Levonorgestrel formulated as a progestogen-only contraceptive is only 30μg, which is far too small to handle. In a typical product, the drug is triturated with c. 1700 times its mass of sugar before being compressed and coated to produce the final tablet. \n\nIn juicing, a triturating juicer is a style of juicer used to break down fresh produce into juice and fiber.\n\nIn homeopathy, a trituration is a solution in lactose of a substance that is not water-soluble.\n"}
{"id": "1855872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855872", "title": "EMortgage", "text": "EMortgage\n\nAn eMortgage is an electronic mortgage where the loan documentation is created, executed, transferred and stored electronically. \n\nIn the United States eMortgages are made legally enforceable by the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act and the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. Standardization of eMortgages is being facilitated in the United States by the Mortgage Industry Standards Maintenance Organization (MISMO) eMortgage workgroup, which builds on the existing MISMO data standards, adding data elements and electronic signature capabilities to create an infrastructure for fully electronic mortgages. The eMortgage infrastructure is built around the concept of a SMART Document and the SMART DOC implementation guide.\n\nOn June 30, 2000, the U.S. Congress passed the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, which together with the state laws like the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act enable the origination of enforceable electronic mortgages. \n\nOn June 28, 2002, Fannie Mae announced its readiness to purchase eMortgages in the role of investor in the secondary mortgage market. \n\n"}
{"id": "1855876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855876", "title": "Chemoselectivity", "text": "Chemoselectivity\n\nChemoselectivity is the preferential outcome of a chemical reaction over a set of possible alternative reactions. \n\nIn another definition, chemoselectivity refers to the selective reactivity of one functional group in the presence of others; often this process in convoluted and protecting groups are on the molecular connectivity alone. Such predictions based on connectivity are generally considered plausible, but the physical outcome of the actual reaction is ultimately dependent on a number of factors that are practically impossible to predict to any useful accuracy (solvent, atomic orbitals, etc.).\n\nChemoselectivity can be difficult to predict, but observing selective outcomes in cases where many reactions are plausible, is common. Examples include the selective organic reduction of the greater relative chemoselectivity of sodium borohydride reduction versus lithium aluminium hydride reduction. In another example, the compound 4-methoxyacetophenone is oxidized by bleach at the ketone group at high pH (forming the carboxylic acid) and oxidized by EAS (to the aryl chloride) at low pH.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855889", "title": "John Morrison, 1st Baron Margadale", "text": "John Morrison, 1st Baron Margadale\n\nMajor John Granville Morrison, 1st Baron Margadale, TD, DL (16 December 1906 – 25 May 1996) was a British landowner and Conservative Party politician. An MP from 1942 to 1965, he notably served as Chairman of the 1922 Committee between 1955 and 1964. He was the last non-royal person to receive a hereditary baronage. \n\nMorrison was the son of Hugh Morrison and Lady Mary Leveson-Gower, daughter of the Liberal statesman Granville Leveson-Gower, 2nd Earl Granville. James Morrison was his great-grandfather. The family seat is the Fonthill estate in southern Wiltshire. Morrison was educated at Eton College and Magdalene College, Cambridge and served in the Royal Wiltshire Yeomanry in the Second World War, until recalled in order to stand for election to Parliament.\n\nMorrison was appointed High Sheriff of Wiltshire for 1938. In 1942 he was elected Member of Parliament for Salisbury, a seat he held until 1965, and served as Chairman of the 1922 Committee between 1955 and 1964. On 1 January 1965 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Margadale, of Islay in the County of Argyll, in recognition of his \"political and public services\". He was also Lord Lieutenant of Wiltshire between 1969 and 1981. In January 1983, he was appointed a Deputy Lieutenant for Wiltshire, together with Mary Salisbury.\n\nHe was the last commoner to be raised to the hereditary peerage until Margaret Thatcher's brief revival of the practice in 1983, and the last ever under a Labour government.\n\nMorrison began owning and breeding horses in 1952, and established the Fonthill Stud in 19th-century stables on his estate, which has produced winners of several classic races. He also led a reorganisation of the Jockey Club.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1975, he was President of the Wiltshire Historic Buildings Trust.\n\nLord Margadale married the Honourable Margaret Smith, daughter of William Smith, 2nd Viscount Hambleden and Lady Esther Gore, on 16 October 1928. They had one daughter and three sons, the two younger of whom became Conservative politicians:\n\n\nLady Margadale died in 1980. Lord Margadale was succeeded in the barony by his eldest son, James.\n"}
{"id": "1855891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855891", "title": "Nicholas Trist", "text": "Nicholas Trist\n\nNicholas Philip Trist (June 2, 1800 – February 11, 1874) was an American lawyer, diplomat, planter, and businessman. Even though dismissed by President James K. Polk as the negotiator with the Mexican government, he forged the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which\nended the Mexican-American War (1846-48). The U.S. conquered Mexican territory and vastly expanded the United States. All or part of ten current states were carved out of former Mexican territory. \n\nHe was born in Charlottesville, Virginia. He was the son of Hore Browse Trist, a lawyer, and Mary Brown. His grandmother, Elizabeth House Trist, was an acquaintance of Thomas Jefferson.\n\nTrist attended West Point, but did not graduate, and then studied law under Thomas Jefferson, whose granddaughter, Virginia Jefferson Randolph he married.\n\nTrist served as Thomas Jefferson's personal secretary in the 1820s, and became an executor of his estate.\n\nHe served as a clerk in the U.S. State Department in 1828-1832, including a one-year assignment in 1831 as private secretary to Andrew Jackson, whom he greatly admired. Trist provided a conduit of communication for James Madison to President Jackson. \n\nTrist was appointed U.S. consul in Havana, Cuba, still a colony of Spain, by President Jackson, in which capacity he served from 1833 to 1841. Shortly after arriving there in 1833, Trist invested in a sugar plantation deal that went bad. He made no secret of his pro-slavery views. According to members of a British commission sent to Cuba to investigate violations of the treaty ending the African slave trade, Trist became involved in the creation of false documents designed to mask illegal sales of Africans into bondage. For a time Trist also served as the consul in Cuba for Portugal, another country whose nationals were active in the illegal slave trade.\n\nAs consul, Trist became unpopular with New England ship captains who believed he was more interested in maintaining good relations with Cuban officials than defending their interests. Captains and merchants pressed members of Congress for Trist's removal. In late 1838 or early 1839, the British commissioner Dr. Richard Robert Madden wrote U.S. abolitionists about Trist's misuse of his post to promote slavery and earn fees from the fraudulent document schemes. A pamphlet detailing Madden's charges was published shortly before the beginning of the sensational \"Amistad\" affair, when Africans sold into slavery in Cuba managed to seize control of the schooner in which they were being transported from Havana to provincial plantations. Madden traveled to the United States, where he gave expert testimony in the trial of the \"Amistad\" Africans, explaining how false documents were used to make it appear the Africans were Cuban-born slaves.\n\nThis exposure of the activities of the U.S. Consul General, coupled with the complaints of ship captains, caused a Congressional investigation and eventual recall of Trist in 1840. Neither Trist nor Madden is depicted in the film \"Amistad\" directed by Steven Spielberg, although there are brief Cuba scenes that suggest how the illegal slave trade was carried on there.\n\nTrist remained in Cuba till 1845, when President James K. Polk appointed him as a chief clerk in the State Department. In 1847, during the Mexican–American War, President Polk sent Trist to negotiate with the Government of Mexico. He was ordered to arrange an armistice with Mexico offering a restitution up to $30 million U.S. dollars, depending on whether he could obtain Baja California and additional southern territory along with the already planned acquisitions of Alta California, the Nueces Strip, and New Mexico. If he could not obtain Baja California and additional territory to the south, then he was instructed to offer $20 million. President Polk was unhappy with his envoy's conduct which prompted him to order Trist to return to the United States. General Winfield Scott was also unhappy with Trist's presence in Mexico, although he and Scott quickly reconciled and began a lifelong friendship. \n\nHowever, the wily diplomat ignored the instructions to leave Mexico. Known to have an over-fluid pen, he wrote a 65-page letter back to Washington, D.C. explaining his reasons for staying in Mexico. He capitalized on a brilliant opportunity to continue bargaining with Santa Anna offering $15 million. Trist successfully negotiated the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo on February 2, 1848. Trist's negotiation was controversial among expansionist Democrats since he had ignored Polk's instructions and settled on a smaller cession of Mexican territory than many expansionists wanted and felt he could have obtained. A part of this instruction was to specifically include Baja California. However, as part of the negotiations, Trist drew the line directly west from Yuma to Tijuana/San Diego instead of from Yuma south to the Gulf of California, which left all of Baja California, though almost separate from, a part of Mexico, and Polk was furious. In the end, Polk reluctantly approved the treaty since he wanted to have it signed, sealed and delivered to Congress during his presidency. Trist later commented on the treaty:\n\nMy feeling of shame as an American was far stronger than the Mexicans' could be.\n\nUpon return to Washington, Trist was immediately fired for his insubordination, and his expenses since the time of the recall order were not paid. Trist did not recover his expenses until 1871. Despite a commitment to free trade, Trist supported Republican Abraham Lincoln for U.S. President in 1860. While the Lincoln administration did not offer Trist any patronage, he did serve as postmaster of Alexandria, Virginia during the Grant administration.\n\nHe died in Alexandria, Virginia on February 11, 1874, aged 73.\n\nTrist married Virginia Jefferson Randolph, Thomas Jefferson's granddaughter, on September 11, 1824. They had three children, Martha Jefferson Trist Burke (1826-1915), Thomas Jefferson Trist (1828-1890), and Hore Browse Trist (1832-1896).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855892", "title": "Franklin–Nashville Campaign", "text": "Franklin–Nashville Campaign\n\nThe Franklin–Nashville Campaign, also known as Hood's Tennessee Campaign, was a series of battles in the Western Theater, conducted from September 18 to December 27, 1864, in Alabama, Tennessee, and northwestern Georgia during the American Civil War. \n\nThe Confederate Army of Tennessee under Lt. Gen. John Bell Hood drove north from Atlanta, threatening Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman's lines of communications and central Tennessee. After a brief attempt to pursue Hood, Sherman returned to Atlanta and began his March to the Sea, leaving Union forces under Maj. Gen. George H. Thomas to deal with Hood's threat.\n\nHood hoped to defeat the Union force under Maj. Gen. John Schofield before it could converge with Thomas's army and attempted to do so at the Battle of Spring Hill on November 29, but poorly coordinated Confederate attacks allowed Schofield to escape. The following day, Hood launched a series of futile frontal assaults against Schofield's field fortifications in the Battle of Franklin, suffering heavy casualties; Schofield withdrew his force and successfully linked up with Thomas in Nashville, Tennessee. On December 15–16, Thomas's combined army attacked Hood's depleted army and routed it in the Battle of Nashville, sending it in retreat to Tupelo, Mississippi. Hood resigned his commission shortly thereafter and the Army of Tennessee ceased to exist as an effective fighting force.\n\nAt the conclusion of his successful Atlanta Campaign, Sherman occupied the city of Atlanta on September 2, 1864, and Hood, who was forced to evacuate the city, regrouped at Lovejoy's Station. For almost a month, the normally aggressive Sherman took little action while his men sat about idly, and many left the army at the end of their enlistments. On September 21, Hood moved his forces to Palmetto, Georgia, where on September 25, he was visited by Confederate President Jefferson Davis. The two men planned their strategy, which called for Hood to move toward Chattanooga, Tennessee, and operate against Sherman's lines of communications. They hoped that Sherman would follow and that Hood would be able to maneuver Sherman into a decisive battle on terrain favorable to the Confederates.\n\nDuring the conference, Davis expressed his disappointment in Hood's performance during the Atlanta Campaign, losing tens of thousands of men in ill-advised frontal assaults for no significant gains, and implied that he was considering replacing Hood in command of the army. After the president's departure for Montgomery, Alabama, he telegraphed Hood that he had decided to retain him in command and, acceding to Hood's request, transferred Lt. Gen. William J. Hardee, one of Hood's corps commanders, out of the Army of Tennessee. He also established a new theater commander to supervise Hood and the department of Lt. Gen. Richard Taylor, although the officer selected for the assignment, Gen. P.G.T. Beauregard, was not expected to exert any real operational control of the armies in the field.\n\nAlthough Sherman was planning to march east to seize the city of Savannah, Georgia (the campaign that would be known as Sherman's March to the Sea) he was concerned about his lines of communications back to Chattanooga. One particular threat was the cavalry commander Nathan Bedford Forrest, who had long bedeviled Union expeditions with lightning raids into their rear areas. On September 29, Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant urged Sherman to dispose of Forrest and Sherman sent Thomas to Nashville, Tennessee, to organize all of the troops in the state. Sherman sent another division, under Brig. Gen. James D. Morgan, to Chattanooga.\n\nSherman had some advance notice of the nature of Hood's proposed campaign. In a series of speeches given at stops along his way back to Richmond, President Davis rallied his listeners by predicting success for Hood, speeches that were reported in the press and read avidly by Sherman. In Columbia, South Carolina, his speech included:\n\nLt. Gen. John Bell Hood's Army of Tennessee, at 39,000 men, constituted the second-largest remaining army of the Confederacy, ranking in strength only after Gen. Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. The army consisted of the corps of Maj. Gen. Benjamin F. Cheatham, Lt. Gen. Stephen D. Lee, and Lt. Gen. Alexander P. Stewart, and cavalry forces under Maj. Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest.\n\nAt the beginning of the campaign, Union forces designated the Military Division of the Mississippi were commanded by Sherman in Atlanta, but his personal involvement in the campaign lasted only until the end of October. Reporting to Sherman was the Army of the Cumberland under Maj. Gen. George H. Thomas (the \"Rock of Chickamauga\"), the force previously commanded by Maj. Gen. William S. Rosecrans. Thomas was the principal Union commander after Sherman's departure. Subordinate to him was the Army of the Ohio, commanded by Maj. Gen. John M. Schofield. It consisted of 34,000 men, made up of the IV Corps under Maj. Gen. David S. Stanley, the XXIII Corps under Brig. Gen. Jacob D. Cox, and a Cavalry Corps commanded by Maj. Gen. James H. Wilson. Thomas had an additional 26,000 men at Nashville and scattered around his department.\n\nSo far, the Confederate strategy was working, because Sherman was being forced to disperse his strength to maintain his lines of communications. However, Sherman was not about to fall into Hood's trap completely. He intended to provide Thomas with sufficient strength to cope with Forrest and Hood, while he completed plans to strike out for Savannah. On September 29, Hood began his advance across the Chattahoochee River, heading to the northwest with 40,000 men to threaten the Western & Atlantic Railroad, Sherman's supply line. On October 1, Hood's cavalry was intercepted by Union cavalry under Brig. Gens. Judson Kilpatrick and Kenner Garrard in a raid on the railroad near Marietta, but Sherman was still uncertain of Hood's location. For the next three weeks, Sherman had difficulty keeping abreast of Hood's movements. Hood moved rapidly, screened his march, and maintained the initiative. The Union cavalry, which Sherman had neglected to train adequately, had a difficult time following Hood and reporting his movements.\n\nOn October 3, the day that Thomas arrived in Nashville, Stewart's corps captured Big Shanty (present-day Kennesaw) with its garrison of 175 men, and the following day Acworth, with an additional 250. Sherman left Maj. Gen. Henry W. Slocum in Atlanta and moved toward Marietta with a force of about 55,000 men. Hood split his force, sending the majority of his command to Dallas, Georgia. The remainder, a division under Maj. Gen. Samuel G. French, moved along the railroad toward Allatoona.\n\nThe small Federal garrison at Allatoona, a partial brigade, was commanded by Col. John Tourtellotte. Before the Southern division arrived, Sherman sent a reinforcement brigade with Brig. Gen. John M. Corse, who took command of both brigades. The Federal troops occupied strong defensive positions in two earthen redoubts on each side of a 180-foot, 65 feet deep railroad cut and many of the men, including the entire 7th Illinois, were armed with Henry repeating rifles.\n\nFrench's division arrived near Allatoona at sunrise on October 5. After a two-hour artillery bombardment, French sent a demand for surrender, which Corse refused. French then launched his brigades in an attack—one from the north (against the rear of the fortifications) and two from the west. Corse's men survived the sustained two-hour attack against the main fortification, the Star Fort on the western side of the railroad cut, but were pinned down and Tourtellotte sent reinforcements from the eastern fort. Under heavy pressure, it seemed inevitable that the Federals would be forced to surrender, but by noon French received a false report from his cavalry that a strong Union force was approaching from Acworth, so he reluctantly withdrew at 2 p.m. Allatoona was a relatively small, but bloody battle with high percentages of casualties.\n\nHood then moved to the west and crossed the Coosa River in the vicinity of Rome, Georgia, near the Alabama state line. He turned north in the direction of Resaca, Georgia, and joined with Maj. Gen. Joseph Wheeler's cavalry, which had been previously raiding in Tennessee. On October 12, Hood demanded the surrender of the Union brigade stationed at Resaca and left Lt. Gen. Stephen D. Lee's corps there to invest the city. The 700 Union men under Col. Clark R. Weaver refused Hood's ultimatum to surrender, which warned that no prisoners would be taken. Weaver replied \"In my opinion I can hold this post. If you want it, come and take it.\" Hood declined to attack the Union position because he believed that it would be too costly, instead bypassing the city, moving north, and continuing the destruction of the railroad.\n\nMeanwhile, Sherman had learned of Hood's location and ordered reinforcements sent to Resaca, arriving there on October 13, too late to engage Hood in battle. Hood sent Lt. Gen. Alexander P. Stewart as far north as Tunnel Hill, near the Tennessee state line, to damage the railroad as much as possible. During this operation, on October 13, Stewart captured the Federal garrison at Dalton, Georgia, under ugly circumstances. The 751 men under Col. Lewis Johnson included a large number of African-American soldiers, a sight that enraged many in Hood's army. In surrender negotiations, Johnson insisted that his black troops be treated as prisoners of war, but Hood replied that \"all slaves belonging to persons in the Confederacy\" would be returned to their masters. Unable to defend the garrison, Johnson surrendered and 600 black soldiers were stripped of their shoes and some clothing and marched to the railroad, where they were forced to tear up about 2 miles of track under the supervision of Maj. Gen. William B. Bate's division. Six of the Union soldiers were shot for refusing to work or being unable to keep up with the march. Col. Johnson later wrote that the abuse his men received \"exceeded anything in brutality I have ever witnessed.\" Johnson and his white officers were paroled the following day, but some of his black soldiers were returned to slavery.\n\nFrom Resaca, Hood withdrew on a six-day march to the west toward Gadsden, Alabama, reaching it on October 20. He had hoped to engage Sherman in battle near LaFayette, Georgia, but his subordinate commanders convinced him that their troops' morale was not ready to risk an attack. He considered his campaign a success so far, having destroyed 24 miles of railroad, although this turned out to be a fleeting advantage to the South. Sherman deployed as many as 10,000 men in reconstruction and by October 28 regular rail service resumed between Chattanooga and Atlanta. Sherman pursued Hood only as far as Gaylesville, Alabama, over 30 miles short of Gadsden.\n\nHood began to focus his strategy. He needed to prevent Thomas's army from reuniting with Sherman and overwhelming him, and he calculated that if he moved swiftly into Tennessee, he might be able to defeat Thomas before the Union forces could be reassembled. After Thomas was eliminated, Hood planned to move into central Kentucky and replenish his army with recruits from there and Tennessee. He hoped to accomplish all of this before Sherman could reach him. His plan was that if Sherman followed him, Hood would fight him in Kentucky; from there he planned to move eastward through the Cumberland Gap to aid Robert E. Lee, who was besieged at Petersburg. On October 21, Hood's plan received the reluctant approval of Gen. Beauregard, who was concerned about the daunting logistical challenges of an invasion. Beauregard insisted that Wheeler's cavalry be detached to monitor Sherman, and assigned Nathan Bedford Forrest's cavalry to Hood's advance. Hood set out toward Decatur, Alabama, with the intention of meeting up with Forrest in the vicinity of Florence, from where they would march north into Tennessee.\n\nBy this time, Sherman had received an indication from Grant that he was favorably considering the march to Savannah. He set his mind on the short-term goal of pursuing the swiftly moving Hood. He directed Thomas to come forward from Nashville to block Hood's advance. To bolster Thomas's effort, Sherman ordered the IV Corps under Stanley to Chattanooga and the XXIII Corps under Schofield to Nashville, as well as Maj. Gen. Andrew J. Smith's XVI Corps from Missouri to Nashville. By November 10, the remainder of Sherman's troops were en route back to Atlanta.\n\nOne of the critical Federal supply lines in Tennessee was to use the Tennessee River, offload supplies at Johnsonville, and then ship them by rail to Nashville. Lt. Gen. Richard Taylor ordered Maj. Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest on a cavalry raid through Western Tennessee to destroy that supply line. The first of Forrest's men began to ride on October 16; Forrest himself began moving north on October 24 and reached Fort Heiman on the Tennessee River on October 28, where he emplaced artillery. On October 29 and October 30, his artillery fire caused the capture of three steamers and two gunboats. Forrest repaired two of the boats, \"Undine\" and \"Venus\", to use as a small flotilla to aid in his attack on Johnsonville. On November 2, Forrest's flotilla was challenged by two Union gunboats, \"Key West\" and \"Tawah\", and \"Venus\" was run aground and captured. The Federals dispatched six more gunboats from Paducah, Kentucky, and on November 3 they engaged in artillery duels with strong Confederate positions on either end of Reynoldsburg Island, near Johnsonville. The Federal fleet had difficulty attempting to subdue these positions and were occupied as Forrest prepared his force for the attack on Johnsonville.\n\nOn the morning of November 4, \"Undine\" and the Confederate batteries were attacked by three Union gunboats from Johnsonville and the six Paducah gunboats. \"Undine\" was abandoned and set on fire, which caused her ammunition magazine to explode, ending Forrest's brief career as a naval commander. Despite this loss, the Confederate land artillery was completely effective in neutralizing the threat of the Federal fleets. Forrest's guns bombarded the Union supply depot and the 28 steamboats and barges positioned at the wharf. All three of the Union gunboats were disabled or destroyed. The Union garrison commander ordered that the supply vessels be burned to prevent their capture by the Confederates.\n\nForrest had caused enormous damage at very low cost. He reported only 2 men killed and 9 wounded. He described the Union losses as 4 gunboats, 14 transports, 20 barges, 26 pieces of artillery, $6,700,000 worth of property, and 150 prisoners. One Union officer described the monetary loss as about $2,200,000. Forrest's command, delayed by heavy rains, proceeded to Perryville, Tennessee, and eventually reached Corinth, Mississippi, on November 10. During the raid, on November 3, Beauregard designated Forrest's cavalry for assignment to Hood's Army of Tennessee. Hood elected to delay his advance from Florence to Tuscumbia until Forrest was able to link up with him on November 16.\n\nHood departed from Gadsden on October 22, en route to Guntersville, Alabama, where he planned to cross the Tennessee River. Learning that that crossing place was strongly guarded, and concerned that Federal gunboats could destroy any pontoon bridge he might deploy, he impulsively changed his destination to Decatur, 40 miles west. When Hood arrived at Decatur on October 26, he found that a Federal infantry force of 3–5,000 men was defending an entrenched line that included two forts and 1,600 yards of rifle pits. Two Federal wooden gunboats patrolled the river. On October 28, Confederate skirmishers advanced through a dense fog to a ravine within 800 yards of the main fortifications. Around noon, a small Federal detachment drove the sharpshooters and skirmishers out of the ravine, capturing 125 men. Hood, concluding that he could not afford the casualties that would ensue from a full-scale assault, withdrew his army. He decided once again to move to the west, to attempt another crossing near Tuscumbia, Alabama, where Muscle Shoals would prevent interference by Federal gunboats.\n\nHood waited for Forrest at Tuscumbia for almost three weeks while his commissary officers attempted to provide 20 days supply of rations for the upcoming campaign. This was a difficult assignment because the supply line was tenuous, requiring transport on two railroads, followed by 15 miles on poor roads to Tuscumbia, using wagons pulled by undernourished horses and oxen. Hood transferred his headquarters to Florence on the morning of November 13 and Maj. Gen. Benjamin F. Cheatham's corps marched across the river that day with the army's supply trains and cattle following on November 14. The final corps, under Lt. Gen. Alexander P. Stewart, crossed the Tennessee on November 20.\n\nOn November 16, Hood received word that Sherman was about to depart Atlanta for his March to the Sea. Beauregard urged Hood to take immediate action in an attempt to distract Sherman's advance, emphasizing the importance of moving before Thomas could consolidate his forces. Both Sherman and Thomas considered it likely that Hood would follow Sherman through Georgia. Although Thomas received intelligence that Hood was amassing supplies for a movement north, he discounted most of it—heavy rains during November made the roads almost impassable. By November 21, however, Thomas had evidence that all three of Hood's corps were in motion and he directed Schofield to withdraw gradually to the north to protect Columbia before Hood could seize it. Schofield arrived at Pulaski on the night of November 13 and assumed command of all forces there, including the IV Corps. Thomas remained concerned that 10,000 troops from the XVI Corps, commanded by Maj. Gen. Andrew J. Smith, had not arrived as promised reinforcements from Missouri.\n\nHood's army departed Florence on November 21, marching in three columns, with Cheatham on the left, Lee in the center, and Stewart on the right, all screened by Forrest's cavalry. Hood's plan was to consolidate at Mount Pleasant and from there move to the east to cut off Schofield before he could reach Columbia and the Duck River. The rapid forced march 70 miles north was under miserable conditions, with freezing winds and sleet, which made progress difficult for the underfed and underclothed army. Nevertheless, Hood's men were in good spirits as they returned to Tennessee.\n\nBecause of Forrest's relentless screening, Schofield had no idea where the Confederate Army was headed. The aggressive Forrest had a slight advantage over his Union cavalry opponents, commanded by Maj. Gen. James H. Wilson. Wilson had arrived from the Eastern Theater in late October to reorganize and command Thomas's cavalry, but he possessed only 4,800 horsemen ready to oppose Forrest, compared to Forrest's between 5,000 and 6,000 men. The Confederate cavalry advanced to Mount Pleasant by November 23. Brig. Gen. John T. Croxton's brigade, the initial Federal cavalry force, was reinforced with a division under Brig. Gen. Edward Hatch and a brigade under Col. Horace Capron.\n\nForrest kept up the pressure and on November 23 heavy skirmishing occurred from Henryville to the outskirts of Mount Pleasant. To the east, Forrest's divisions under Brig. Gens. Abraham Buford and William H. Jackson forced Hatch's division out of the Lawrenceburg area and drove them back toward Pulaski. Early on November 24, Schofield began marching his two infantry corps north to Columbia. Forrest pursued aggressively with part of the division of Brig. Gen. James R. Chalmers, who occupied Mount Pleasant and hit Capron's men repeatedly as he forced them north. Buford and Jackson drove Hatch north toward Lynnville and captured a number of prisoners, but the Confederate cavalry was unable to prevent the division of Brig. Gen. Jacob D. Cox from reaching Columbia. Stanley's corps completed a 30-mile march from Pulaski to reinforce him. Together they began constructing an arc of trenches just south of the town.\n\nOn the morning of November 24, Forrest's cavalry began probing attacks in an attempt to break through two lines of fortifications. The Confederates bombarded the lines with artillery and a number of skirmishes occurred, but it became apparent to the Union defenders that only a single infantry division with some dismounted cavalry were participating in the attacks and that Hood was merely demonstrating, intending to cross the Duck River either upstream or downstream and cut off the Union force from Thomas, who was assembling the remainder of his force in Nashville.\n\nOn the morning of November 26, Schofield received an order from Thomas to hold the north bank of the Duck River until reinforcements under A. J. Smith could arrive from Nashville. Schofield planned to move his trains during the day and his infantry overnight, using a railroad bridge and a recently installed pontoon bridge, but heavy rains that day made approaches to the bridge impassable. That evening, the bulk of the Army of Tennessee reached the fortifications south of Columbia.\n\nOn November 28, Forrest crossed the river east of town against little resistance from the Union cavalry; the Southern cavalrymen had deceived Wilson and drawn his force to the northeast and away from the action. On the same day, Thomas directed Schofield to begin preparations for a withdrawal north to Franklin. He was expecting (incorrectly) that A. J. Smith's arrival from Missouri was imminent and he wanted the combined force to defend against Hood on the line of the Harpeth River at Franklin instead of the Duck River. Schofield sent his 800-wagon supply train out in front, guarded by part of the IV Corps division of Brig. Gen. George D. Wagner.\n\nOn November 29 Hood sent Cheatham's and Stewart's corps on a flanking march north, crossing the Duck River at Davis's Ford east of Columbia while two divisions of Lee's corps and most of the army's artillery remained on the southern bank to deceive Schofield into thinking a general assault was planned against Columbia. Hood, riding near the head of the column with Cheatham's corps, planned to interpose his army between Schofield and Thomas, hoping to defeat Schofield as the Federals retreated north from Columbia. Stewart's corps followed Cheatham, and they were followed by the division of Maj. Gen. Edward \"Allegheny\" Johnson (Lee's corps). The rest of Lee's corps remained south of Columbia, demonstrating with artillery fire against Schofield's men north of the Duck.\n\nCavalry skirmishing between Wilson's and Forrest's troopers continued throughout the day. Forrest's wide turning movement with 4,000 troopers had forced Wilson north to Hurt's Corner, preventing the Union horsemen from interfering with Hood's infantry advance. By 10 a.m., Forrest ordered his men to turn west toward Spring Hill. Wilson sent multiple messages to Schofield warning of Hood's advance, but it was not until dawn on November 29 that Schofield believed the reports and realized the predicament he was in. He sent Stanley north with portions of the IV Corps to protect the trains, but also to hold the crossroads at Spring Hill to allow the entire army to withdraw safely to Franklin. Forrest's cavalrymen ran into pickets from the IV Corps; Stanley had moved north rapidly and formed up positions with Wagner's division that protected the village of Spring Hill on three sides. The brigade of Col. John Quincy Lane rushed forward and pushed back the dismounted cavalrymen. Maj. Gen. Patrick R. Cleburne's division of Cheatham's corps arrived midafternoon on Forrest's left. The cavalrymen, low on ammunition, pulled out of the line and moved north to be ready to cover a further advance of Hood's army, or to block Schofield's withdrawal.\n\nThe first command miscommunication of the battle took place upon Hood's arrival. Cheatham had ordered his division under Maj. Gen. William B. Bate to move against Spring Hill in concert with Cleburne, forming up on the Irishman's left. Hood then personally ordered Bate to move towards the Columbia Pike and \"sweep toward Columbia.\" Neither Bate nor Hood bothered to inform Cheatham of this change in orders. At about 5:30 p.m., Bate's lead element of sharpshooters fired on a Federal column approaching from their left—Maj. Gen. Thomas H. Ruger's division of the XXIII Corps, the vanguard of Schofield's main body. But before the two divisions could engage in battle, an officer from Cheatham's staff arrived to insist that Bate follow Cheatham's original orders and join Cleburne's attack. Late that night, Bate reported the contact with the Federal column, but Cheatham discounted the importance of the encounter.\n\nBack in Columbia, Schofield became convinced at about 3 p.m. that the Confederates would not attack him there and he began marching his men to Spring Hill. As soon as the initial units departed, Stephen D. Lee coincidentally began an attack against the Union position. By the time the bulk of his two divisions were able to cross, the senior Union commander left behind at Columbia, Brig. Gen. Jacob D. Cox, began his withdrawal and the final troops departed up the Franklin Pike by 10 p.m.\n\nCleburne's 3,000 men began an attack against Bradley's brigade at about 4 p.m. Whereas Cheatham was expecting Cleburne to drive north into Spring Hill, Hood's intention was to use this formation to sweep toward the turnpike and wheel left to intercept Schofield's arriving units. Cleburne wheeled his brigades into a northern alignment against Bradley's right flank, causing Bradley and his men to flee in disorder. Cleburne's two brigades chased them vigorously, and they were stopped short of the turnpike only by heavy fire from the IV Corps artillery.\n\nBy this time, Cheatham's division under Maj. Gen. John C. Brown was moved into position for another attack on Spring Hill, on Cleburne's right. Brown did not attack, however. It was reported that there were Union troops in position on his right flank and front and that Forrest's cavalrymen, promised to protect his right flank, did not seem to be present. Brown decided to consult with his corps commander before proceeding, sending two staff officers to find Cheatham and halting his troops while he awaited a decision. By the time Cheatham and Brown were able to speak, the battlefield was in total darkness, and the two officers decided that an assault conducted then without knowing the condition of their right flank might be a disaster. Hood was furious that the attack had not proceeded as he intended and that the pike was still open. He dispatched a staff officer to find Stewart to assist Cheatham. Having been up since 3 a.m., Hood went to bed at 9 p.m., confident that whatever setbacks his army had suffered during the day, they would be able to correct them in the morning and bag Schofield.\n\nThe Battle of Spring Hill was a minor affair in terms of casualties—about 350 Union and 500 Confederate—but the result of miscommunication and simply bad military management was that during the night all of Schofield's command, including Cox, passed from Columbia through Spring Hill while the Confederate commanders slept. The passage of the army did not go unnoticed by some of the soldiers, but no concerted effort was made to block the pike. Confederate cavalry attempted to block the passage of the supply trains north of Spring Hill, at Thompson's Station, but accompanying Federal infantry drove them off. A private soldier woke up the commanding general at 2 a.m. and reported he saw the Union column moving north, but Hood did nothing beyond sending a dispatch to Cheatham to fire on passing traffic.\n\nBy 6:00 a.m. on November 30, all of Schofield's army was well north of Spring Hill and its vanguard had reached Franklin, where it began to build breastworks south of town. In the morning Hood discovered Schofield's escape, and after an angry conference with his subordinate commanders in which he blamed all but himself for the failure, ordered his army to resume its pursuit. Spring Hill had been, arguably, Hood's best chance to isolate and defeat the Union army and recriminations for the lost opportunity soon began flying. Hood believed that Cheatham was most responsible. Historians Thomas L. Connelly, Eric Jacobson, and Wiley Sword have each assigned blame to both Hood and Cheatham.\n\nSchofield's advance guard arrived in Franklin at about 4:30 a.m. on November 30. Jacob Cox, a division commander temporarily commanding the XXIII Corps, immediately began preparing strong defensive positions around the deteriorated entrenchments originally constructed for a previous engagement in 1863. Schofield decided to defend at Franklin with his back to the river because he had no pontoon bridges available that would enable his men to cross the river. Schofield needed time to repair the permanent bridges spanning the river, but by mid-afternoon, nearly all the supply wagons were across the Harpeth and on the road to Nashville. By noon the Union works formed an approximate semicircle around the town. A gap in the line occurred where the Columbia Pike entered the outskirts of the town, left open to allow passage of the wagons. Just behind the center of the formidable line stood the Carter House, appropriated as Cox's headquarters. Two Union brigades from Wagner's division were positioned about a half mile forward of the main line. Wagner, perhaps misunderstanding his orders, ordered his three brigades to stop halfway to the Union line and dig in as best they could on the flat ground. Col. Emerson Opdycke considered Wagner's order to be ridiculous and refused to obey it; he marched his brigade through the Union line and into a reserve position behind the gap through which the Columbia Pike passed, leaving the brigades of Cols. John Q. Lane, and Joseph Conrad in front.\n\nHood's army began to arrive on Winstead Hill, two miles (3 km) south of Franklin, around 1 p.m. Hood ordered a frontal assault in the dwindling afternoon light—sunset would be at 4:34 p.m. that day—against the Union force, a decision that caused dismay among his top generals. Some popular histories assert that Hood acted rashly in a fit of rage, resentful that the Federal army had slipped past his troops the night before at Spring Hill and that he wanted to discipline his army by ordering them to assault against strong odds. Recent scholarship by Eric Jacobson discounts this as unlikely, as it was not only militarily foolish, but Hood was observed to be determined, not angry, by the time he arrived in Franklin.\n\nRegardless of Hood's personal motivations, his specific objective was to try to crush Schofield before he and his troops could escape to Nashville. The Confederates began moving forward at 4 p.m., with Cheatham's corps on the left of the assault and Stewart's on the right. Lee's corps, and almost all of the army's artillery, had not yet arrived from Columbia. Hood's attacking force, about 19–20,000 men, was arguably understrength for the mission he assigned—traversing two miles of open ground with only two batteries of artillery support and then assaulting prepared fortifications.\n\nHood's attack initially enveloped the 3,000 men in the two brigades under Lane and Conrad, which attempted to stand their ground behind inadequate fieldworks and without anchored flanks, but quickly collapsed under the pressure. Many of the veteran soldiers of the two brigades stampeded back on the Columbia Pike to the main breastworks, while some untried replacements were reluctant to move under fire and were captured. The fleeing troops were closely pursued by the Confederates and the two sides became so intermingled that defenders in the breastworks had to hold their fire to avoid hitting their comrades.\n\nThe Union's momentary inability to defend the opening in the works caused a weak spot in its line at the Columbia Pike from the Carter House to the cotton gin. The Confederate divisions of Cleburne, Brown, and French converged on this front and a number of their troops broke through the now not-so-solid Federal defenses on either side. In a matter of minutes, the Confederates had penetrated 50 yards through the center of the Federal line.\nAs the Confederates began their attack, Opdycke's brigade was in reserve. He quickly positioned his men into line of battle and ordered his brigade forward to the works. Hand-to-hand fighting around the Carter House and the pike was furious and desperate. Firing continued around the Carter house and gardens for hours. Many Confederates were driven back to the Federal earthworks, where many were pinned down for the remainder of the evening, unable to either advance or flee. Brown's division suffered significant losses, including Brown, who was wounded, and all four of his brigade commanders were casualties. Brown's brigade attack near the cotton gin was driven back from the breastworks and was then subjected to devastating cross fire from Reilly's brigade to their front and the brigade of Col. John S. Casement, on Reilly's right. Cleburne was killed in the attack and 14 of his brigade and regimental commanders were casualties.\n\nWhile fighting raged at the center of the Union line, Stewart's Corps also advanced against the Union left. Because the Harpeth River flowed in that area from southeast to northwest, the brigade found themselves moving through a space getting progressively narrower, squeezing brigades together into a compressed front, delaying their movements and reducing their unit cohesion. They were all subjected to fierce artillery fire not only from the main Union line, but also from the batteries across the river at Fort Granger. And they had significant difficulty pushing through the strong Osage-orange abatis.\n\nLoring's division launched two attacks against the Union brigade of Col. Israel N. Stiles and both were repulsed with heavy losses. Artillery firing canister rounds directly down the railroad cut prevented any attempt to flank the Union position. Brig. Gen. John Adams attempted to rally his brigade by galloping his horse directly onto the earthworks, but he and his horse were both shot and killed. The brigade of Brig. Gen. Winfield S. Featherston began falling back under heavy fire when its division commander, Maj. Gen. William W. Loring, confronted them, shouting, \"Great God! Do I command cowards?\" He attempted to inspire his men by sitting on his horse in full view of the Federal lines for over a minute and amazingly emerged unharmed, but the brigade made no further progress. Walthall's division struck Casement's and Reilly's brigades in multiple waves of brigade assaults—probably as many as six distinct attacks. All of these assaults were turned back with heavy losses.\n\nMaj. Gen. William B. Bate's division attacked on the Union right flank. His left flank was not being protected as he expected by Chalmers's cavalry division, and they received enfilade fire. To protect the flank, Bate ordered the Florida Brigade to move from its reserve position to his left flank. This not only delayed the advance, but provided only a single line to attack the Union fortifications, leaving no reserve. Chalmers's troopers had actually engaged the Federal right by this time, fighting dismounted, but Bate was unaware of it because the two forces were separated by rolling ground and orchards. Neither Bate nor Chalmers made any progress and they withdrew. Hood was still convinced that he could pierce the Federal line. At about 7 p.m., he deployed the only division of Stephen D. Lee's corps that had arrived, commanded by Maj. Gen. Edward \"Allegheny\" Johnson, to assist Cheatham's effort. They were repulsed after a single assault with heavy losses.\n\nIn addition to Chalmers's actions in the west, across the river to the east Confederate cavalry commander Forrest attempted to turn the Union left. Union cavalry commander Brig. Gen. James H. Wilson learned at 3 p.m. that Forrest was crossing the river, he ordered his division under Brig. Gen. Edward Hatch to move south from his position on the Brentwood Turnpike and attack Forrest from the front. He ordered Brig. Gen. John T. Croxton's brigade to move against Forrest's flank and held Col. Thomas J. Harrison's brigade in reserve. The dismounted cavalrymen of Hatch's division charged the Confederate cavalrymen, also dismounted, and drove them back across the river.\n\nFollowing the failure of Johnson's assault, Hood decided to end offensive actions for the evening and began to plan for a resumed series of attacks in the morning. Schofield ordered his infantry to cross the river, starting at 11 p.m. Although there was a period in which the Union army was vulnerable, outside its works and straddling the river, Hood did not attempt to take advantage of it during the night. The Union army began entering the breastworks at Nashville at noon on December 1, with Hood's damaged army in pursuit.\n\nThe devastated Confederate force was left in control of Franklin, but its enemy had escaped again. Although he had briefly come close to breaking through in the vicinity of the Columbia Turnpike, Hood was unable to destroy Schofield or prevent his withdrawal to link up with Thomas in Nashville. And his unsuccessful result came with a frightful cost. The Confederates suffered 6,252 casualties, including 1,750 killed and 3,800 wounded. An estimated 2,000 others suffered less serious wounds and returned to duty before the Battle of Nashville. But more importantly, the military leadership in the West was decimated, including the loss of perhaps the best division commander of either side, Patrick Cleburne. Fourteen Confederate generals (six killed or mortally wounded, seven wounded, and one captured) and 55 regimental commanders were casualties.\n\nUnion losses were reported as only 189 killed, 1,033 wounded, and 1,104 missing. It is possible that the number of casualties was under-reported by Schofield because of the confusion during his army's hasty nighttime evacuation of Franklin. The Union wounded were left behind in Franklin.\n\nThe Army of Tennessee was all but destroyed at Franklin. Nevertheless, rather than retreat and risk the army dissolving through desertions, Hood advanced his 26,500 man force against the Union army now combined under Thomas, firmly entrenched at Nashville. This was a controversial move on Hood's part because his army was enervated and no longer ready for offensive operations. However, he believed that if he ordered a retreat, it would mean the complete disintegration of his army. Hood decided that destruction of the Nashville & Chattanooga Railroad and disruption of the Union army supply depot at Murfreesboro would help his cause. On December 4 he sent Forrest, with two cavalry divisions and Maj. Gen. William B. Bate's infantry division, to Murfreesboro. Hood ordered Bate to destroy the railroad and blockhouses between Murfreesboro and Nashville and join Forrest for further operations.\n\nForrest's combined command attacked Murfreesboro but was repulsed. They destroyed railroad track, blockhouses, and some homes and generally disrupted Union operations in the area, but they did not accomplish much else. The raid on Murfreesboro was a minor irritation. Bate was recalled to Nashville, but Forrest remained near Murfreesboro and thus was absent from the battle of Nashville. In retrospect, Hood's decision to detach Forrest from his main command was a major blunder.\n\nUnder the command of Thomas, who now had a combined force of approximately 55,000 men, the 7-mile-long semicircular Union defensive line surrounded Nashville from the west to the east; the remainder of the circle, to the north, was the Cumberland River, patrolled by U.S. Navy gunboats.\n\nIt took Thomas over two weeks to move, causing great anxiety in Washington, where it was anticipated that Hood was poised for an invasion of the North. General Grant pressured Thomas to move, despite a bitter ice storm that struck on December 8 and stopped much fortification on both sides. A few days later, Grant sent an aide to relieve Thomas of command, believing that Hood would slip through his fingers. On December 13, Maj. Gen. John A. Logan was directed to proceed to Nashville and assume command if, upon his arrival, Thomas had not yet initiated operations. He made it as far as Louisville by December 15, but on that day the Battle of Nashville had finally begun.\n\nThomas finally came out of his fortifications on December 15 to start a two-phase attack on the Confederates. The first, but secondary, attack was by Steedman on the Confederate right flank. The main attack would be on the enemy's left, by Smith, Wood, and Brig. Gen. Edward Hatch (commanding a dismounted cavalry brigade). Steedman's attack kept Cheatham on the Confederate right occupied for the rest of the day. The main attack wheeled left to a line parallel to the Hillsboro Pike. By noon, the main advance had reached the pike, and Wood prepared to assault the Confederate outposts on Montgomery Hill, near the center of the line. Hood became concerned about the threat on his left flank and ordered Lee to send reinforcements to Stewart. Wood's corps took Montgomery Hill in a charge by Brig. Gen. Samuel Beatty's division.\n\nAt about 1 p.m., there was a salient in Hood's line at Stewart's front. Thomas ordered Wood to attack the salient, supported by Schofield and Wilson. By 1:30 p.m., Stewart's position along the pike became untenable; the attacking force was overwhelming. Stewart's corps broke and began to retreat toward the Granny White Turnpike. However, Hood was able to regroup his men toward nightfall in preparation for the battle the next day. The Union cavalry under Wilson had been unable to put enough force on the turnpike to hamper the Confederate movement, since many of its troopers were participating as dismounted infantry in the assault. The exhausted Confederates dug in all night, awaiting the arrival of the Federals.\n\nIt took most of the morning on December 16 for the Federals to move into position against Hood's new line, which had been reduced to about 2 miles in length. Once again, Thomas planned a two-phase attack but concentrated on Hood's left. Schofield was to drive back Cheatham, and Wilson's cavalry was to swing to the rear to block the Franklin Pike, Hood's only remaining route of withdrawal. At noon, Wood and Steedman attacked Lee on Overton's Hill, but without success. On the left, Wilson's dismounted cavalry was exerting pressure on the line.\n\nAt 4 p.m., Cheatham, on Shy's Hill, was under assault from three sides, and his corps broke and fled to the rear. Wood took this opportunity to renew his attack on Lee on Overton's Hill, and this time the momentum was overwhelming. Darkness fell, and heavy rain began. Hood collected his forces and withdrew to the south toward Franklin.\n\nCasualties from the two-day battle were 3,061 Union (387 killed, 2,558 wounded, and 112 missing or captured) and approximately 6,000 Confederate (1,500 killed or wounded, 4,500 missing or captured). The Battle of Nashville was one of the most stunning victories achieved by the Union Army in the war. The formidable Army of Tennessee, the second largest Confederate force, was effectively destroyed as a fighting force. Hood's army entered Tennessee with over 30,000 men but left with 15–20,000.\n\nThe Union army set off in pursuit of Hood from Nashville. The rainy weather became an ally to the Confederates, delaying the Union cavalry pursuit, and Forrest was able to rejoin Hood on December 18, screening the retreating force. The pursuit continued until the beaten and battered Army of Tennessee recrossed the Tennessee River on December 25. On Christmas Eve, Forrest turned back Wilson's pursuing cavalry at the Battle of Anthony's Hill.\n\nAlthough Hood blamed the entire debacle of his campaign on his subordinates and the soldiers themselves, his career was over. He retreated with his army to Tupelo, Mississippi, resigned his command on January 13, 1865, and was not given another field command. Forrest returned to Mississippi, but in 1865 he was driven into Alabama by James H. Wilson, and his command became dissipated and ineffective.\n\nBy the time of Hood's defeat in Nashville, Sherman's army had advanced to the outskirts of Savannah, which they captured just before Christmas. Five thousand men from the Army of Tennessee were later deployed under Joseph E. Johnston against Sherman in South Carolina during the Carolinas Campaign, but to no avail.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855907", "title": "Ira Joy Chase", "text": "Ira Joy Chase\n\nIra Joy Chase (December 7, 1834May 11, 1895) was a veteran of the American Civil War, a leading member of the Grand Army of the Republic, a prominent Church of Christ evangelist, and the 22nd Governor of Indiana between November 23, 1891 and January 9, 1893.\n\nIra Joy Chase was born in 1834 in New York, the son of Benjamin and Lordina Mix Chase. His parents were poor, and spent much of his early life moving from place to place. He was educated at Medina Academy where he received a common education, and then attended the Milan Seminary to be trained as a minister. In 1855 his family moved to Barrington, Illinois. There he and his father took a job driving wagon teams in the Chicago stockyards. He soon found work as a teacher, where he met Rhoda Jane Castle. He married her and had three children before he joined the Union army at the start of the American Civil War. His health was frequently poor during the war, so he was removed from front-line duty and served as a drill instructor to prepare and train new recruits. His health still worsened and he was forced to spend several months in a military hospital. His wife heard of his situation and left their Illinois home to be with him in Tennessee. She was not permitted to remain in the hospital because she was civilian, so she joined the army as a nurse. As his health recovered, he returned to duty as a chaplain.\n\nThe day after they left to return home in 1864, she contracted smallpox. Chase spent several weeks nursing her back to health, but the virus left her blind and crippled. Chase opened a hardware store to try to support his family, but the community avoided contact with him for weeks after his wife's smallpox had gone; the lack of customers forced him to close the store. He began preaching in local churches, and gained popularity in the community for his sermons against liquor. In 1867 he moved to Indiana to become the minister of the Christian Church of Mishawaka, Indiana. He also pastored in churches in La Porte, Wabash, and Danville.\n\nChase was one of the founding members of the Grand Army of the Republic. He became chaplain of the Indiana G.A.R. in 1886 and was elected as the department head in 1887, and served for several years in that position. The group was heavily involved in political lobbying, primarily to secure benefits for veterans of the Civil War. His high standing in the organization gained him clout in political circles because of his ability influence members' votes.\n\nBecause of his influence in the Indiana G.A.R., he was elected the 20th Lieutenant Governor of Indiana on January 14, 1889, and served until the death of Governor Alvin Peterson Hovey. He was criticized by the Methodists and other large denominations for continuing to serve as a minister during his tenure primarily because of their dislike for the Church of Christ. He was sworn in as governor on November 23, 1891, and served until January 9, 1893. His administration oversaw the expansion of the state's road system and the construction of the state's Soldiers' and Saliors' monument. He also returned the state to the temperance debate, urging prohibition laws to be enacted. His position on temperance was controversial within his own party. Republicans feared losing support to Democrats could cost the party on the national ticket. He had also oppose several work reform laws, and was perceived by many to be anti-labor.\n\nHe was nominated by his party to run for governor in 1892 for a full term of his own, and he accepted. Party leaders had attempted to deny him the chance because of his labor and temperance positions by holding the state convention as far as possible from his base of support and during harvest time in hopes that few farmers would attend, but the attempt failed. He delivered speeches at his many campaign stops where he would also preach a sermon later in the day at one of the area churches. His sermons were often firebrand and prohibitionist. Some of the doctrines he taught caused Methodist and Presbyterian churches, the two largest churches in the state, to urge their members to vote against him. He was defeated at the polls by Democrat Claude Matthews who won by plurality, with Populist Party candidate Leroy Templeton capturing nearly five percent of the vote which would have ordinarily gone to the Republican party.\n\nChase returned to private life and continued preaching. He became even more prominent as a minister following his term as governor and began traveling nationally to deliver sermons. He died in 1895 in Lubec, Maine after delivering a sermon. His remains were returned to be buried in the Crown Hill Cemetery in Indianapolis, Indiana.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1855912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855912", "title": "George Tanham", "text": "George Tanham\n\nGeorge K. Tanham (1922-2003) joined the American RAND Corporation in 1955 and held several positions before retiring in 1987, including leading Project AIR FORCE from 1970 to 1975. He also served on the RAND Board of Trustees and was an advisory trustee at the time of his death. He continued to write on international security issues, especially regarding South Asia, after his retirement.\n\nTanham's career in government included serving as associate director for counterinsurgency of the U.S Agency for International Development in South Vietnam from 1964-1965, and as special assistant for counterinsurgency to the American ambassador in Thailand from 1968-1970.\n\nA native of Tenafly, New Jersey, Tanham was a graduate of Princeton University. He served as an artillery officer in Europe during World War II and was a decorated combat veteran. After receiving his Ph.D. in history and political science from Stanford University, he taught military history at Caltech before joining RAND.\n\nIn the course of his career, Tanham received numerous fellowships and grants; served on various U.S. government committees; was editor-in-chief of the journal Studies in Conflict and Terrorism; and wrote several books.\n"}
{"id": "1855927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855927", "title": "Vilsandi", "text": "Vilsandi\n\nThe island of Vilsandi, Saaremaa Parish, Saare County, Estonia is located in the Baltic Sea. It covers an area of some 9 square km and is the westernmost populated island in Estonia. The surrounding waters are shallow and rocky and many ships travelling the Baltic have perished nearby. The island of Vilsandi can be reached by boat, by truck having suitable clearance or on foot by wading from Saaremaa. Much of the island is now part of Vilsandi National Park, which grew from a bird reserve founded in 1910. It is a highly sensitive ecosystem due to the use of the area by many migratory birds as a breeding and nesting ground. Hunting is absolutely prohibited. This park is a popular tourist destination not only for local Estonians, but also people of Finland who are visiting Estonia in greater and greater numbers.\n\nIn 1703, a ship owned by Dutchman Johann Doll ran aground and sank in the Baltic Sea. Doll managed to get ashore to a nearby island and named the island “Felsland” meaning rocky island. He stayed to live there and, over time, Doll's farm became known in Estonian as Tolli talu (farm) and Felsland became known as Vilsandi.\nDue to its location alongside a maritime trade route, it was important to seafaring nations that Vilsandi have some shelter for shipwreck survivors. This was especially important to the Russian Tsar and the first shelter on the island was built in 1806. This was followed by the construction of a 37-meter high lighthouse in 1809. A lifesaving station was built beside the lighthouse in 1859 and a telegraph line was installed in 1883, primarily to communicate news about ships running aground.\n\nThe earliest known family settled on Vilsandi in 1826 and in 1896 this family took the surname of Mänder. Over time, as the letter “ä” was not familiar to the various non-Estonian seamen in the area, some family members changed Mänder to Mender because it was easier to spell. By 1860, 18 families lived on the island. In 1934 a census recorded that 32 families and 169 people lived on Vilsandi, sustained mainly by fishing (flounder, cod, salmon) and seafaring. The surrounding ocean is shallow with some depths to . In 1931 a seabird museum was built on Vilsandi and before World War II (1939–1945) there were about 200 permanent residents on the island and about 3,000 – 5,000 tourists that would visit during the summer months.\n\nIn 1870, the British ship \"Admiral\" ran aground near Vilsandi and many barrels of a new product, petroleum – the oil economy didn't exist yet – washed ashore and were used for fuel at Vilsandi's lighthouse and island homes, replacing firewood and flax oil.\n\nArtur Toom (1884–1942) was appointed to manage Vilsandi's lighthouse in 1906 and he was instrumental in having the small Vaika islands just northwest of Vilsandi designated as a maritime bird reserve in 1910. The islands comprise a sensitive marine ecosystem used by a multitude of migratory birds as breeding and nesting grounds.\n\nDuring World War I, in October 1917, Germany launched Operation Albion, a massive fleet of over 300 ships and 25,000 soldiers, to occupy Saaremaa and other Baltic islands to try and force Russia, who governed Estonia at the time, to surrender. The invasion began at Vilsandi and was first noticed by Artur Toom, Vilsandi's lighthouse keeper. In 1941, Toom was arrested by the Russians, accused of undertaking counterrevolutionary activities and spying for capitalist countries, and was sent to a Stalinist work camp where he perished in 1942.\n\nOne of Vilsandi's residents was Jaen Tear, a well-known seaman and shipbuilder, and the largest ship-owner on the island. He also managed the lifesaving station until his death in 1925. Jaen Tear's grandson, Jaan Elmar Teär, was born in Kuressaare on 24 December 1930. In 1941, Jaan Teär's father and uncle, who were being held by the Russians at the Bishop's Castle in Kuressaare, the capital of Saaremaa, were executed.\n\nVilsandi has produced 16 ship captains or Master Mariners, some of whom were related to Peeter All (1829–1898), a noted resident of the nearby island of Loonalaid. Such captains include Peter Mender, Johann Kalmar, Siim Roos and Johannes Mänder. Kalmar, Mender and Roos worked in the Russian Far East and China prior to World War II and in 1930 co-founded the Estonian shipping firm Merilaid & Co.\n\nOn 19 September 1944 about 40 of Vilsandi's 155 inhabitants escaped by boat to Sweden, evading a blockade by the Kriegsmarine. Records show that 96 people escaped from Vilsandi in 1944, during the war, followed by one who escaped in 1956 and another in 1959, by which time only 46 inhabitants remained. Of the people who were able to flee the Russians, the majority settled in Sweden and others headed to Canada and the United States.\n\nIn 1945, after World War II had ended, the Soviet Union designated all of the islands around Vilsandi a restricted area closed to the public for national security reasons.\n\nVilsandi became part of an Estonian national park in the early 1990s and today only a few people live there year-round. Many tourists visit in the summer months, some of which explore, by kayak, the approximately 100 small islands comprising the park. Tens of thousands of waterfowl migrate through or nest in the national park as do most of the Baltic grey seals.\n\nVilsandi has one of the most maritime climates in Estonia and thus it experiences generally cooler summers and milder winters than other parts of Estonia with smaller annual temperature range. Vilsandi is as well is usually the part of Estonia which receives the most hours of sunlight during a year with its weather station statistically the location with the most sunshine in Estonia. \n\n"}
{"id": "1855928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855928", "title": "Zostrianos", "text": "Zostrianos\n\nZostrianos is a 3rd-century Sethian Gnostic text from the New Testament apocrypha. The main surviving copies come from the Nag Hammadi library, but it is heavily damaged.\n\nLike Marsenes and Allogenes, the text concerns a vision received by a man named \"Zostrianos\" and explains and enumerates, in great detail, the emanations that the Gnostics said are produced by God (the true, highest God as opposed to the demiurge), in the Gnostics' esoteric cosmology. \nSimilarly to other gnostic literature, Zostrianos says, \"Flee from the madness and the bondage of femaleness and choose for yourselves the salvation of maleness. You have not come to suffer; rather, you have come to escape your bondage. Release yourselves, and that which has bound you will be dissolved. Save yourselves so that your soul may be saved.\" \nWithin the text there are indications that the Sethians had developed ideas of monism, an idea from Neoplatonism which is thought to have become part of Sethianism towards the end of the 3rd century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855936", "title": "The Dangerous Alliance", "text": "The Dangerous Alliance\n\nThe Dangerous Alliance was a professional wrestling stable that made a name for itself in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in the early 1990s and the American Wrestling Association (AWA) in 1987, with Adrian Adonis, Randy Rose, and Dennis Condrey making up the AWA incarnation of the group.\n\nIn the spring of 1987, Paul E. Dangerously formed The Dangerous Alliance with Adrian Adonis and The Original Midnight Express (Dennis Condrey and Randy Rose) in the American Wrestling Association (AWA).\n\nIn October 1987, Dangerously successfully led Condrey and Rose to win the AWA World Tag Team Championship from Mid-South legends Jerry Lawler and Bill Dundee, only to lose the titles to The Midnight Rockers (Shawn Michaels and Marty Jannetty) two months later. Dangerously also helped Adonis in his feud with Tommy Rich and his bid to win the AWA International Television Championship, in which Adonis lost the title in a tournament final to Greg Gagne. By 1988, the Dangerous Alliance disbanded, as Dangerously, Condrey, and Rose left the AWA, while Adonis died that July in a van accident during a tour in Canada.\n\nAfter Dangerously was \"fired\" as an announcer for \"World Championship Wrestling\", the precursors to resurrecting his stable came at the Halloween Havoc pay-per-view in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Prior to the show, announcer Eric Bischoff was working as a valet in the parking lot. When Dustin Rhodes and Barry Windham pulled up and got out of their car, heel wrestlers Arn Anderson and Larry Zbyszko ran up to Bischoff and Windham and slammed the car door on Windham's hand, breaking it. It was from this incident that Zbyszko gained his nickname from around this time, \"The Cruncher\".\n\nLater at the same show, the mysterious WCW Halloween Phantom appeared, and squashed Tom Zenk in a match using a reverse neckbreaker. Then, in an interview segment with Bischoff, Dangerously brought out the Phantom and had him unmask to reveal the returning \"Ravishing\" Rick Rude. Dangerously stated that even though he had been fired as a commentator, he still had his manager's license, and would use Rude to exact his revenge on the company that fired him.\n\nThe storyline was furthered at Clash of the Champions XVII on November 19, 1991 in Savannah, Georgia. At the beginning of the Clash, which was televised live on TBS, WCW United States Heavyweight Champion (and perennial face) Sting was in the ring doing an interview. Madusa came out dressed as a harem girl and distracted Sting so WCW World Heavyweight Champion Lex Luger could attack him from behind by clipping his knee, the same one Sting injured in February 1990. Luger then bashed the knee against the runway repeatedly to make it seem like Sting had suffered severe damage. Several face wrestlers, including Bobby Eaton, ran out to run the heel Luger off and take Sting to the hospital. Sting, however, had to defend his title against Rude that night and did not want to leave. Eaton kept telling him he would have time, so he left. Bischoff rode in the ambulance with Sting and gave live updates on the condition of Sting from the hospital between matches to announcers Jim Ross and Tony Schiavone. Meanwhile, Dangerously had found a loophole in the match contract that specifically stated that if Sting was not able to defend his title, he would have to forfeit it to Rude. The announcers relayed the message to Bischoff, who in turn passed it along to Sting. Commotion could be heard in the background as Sting tried to leave the hospital and return to defend his title.\n\nWhen it came time for the match, Sting was a no-show and Dangerously declared Rude the United States Heavyweight Champion (which had been their plan all along). The telecast featured a split screen of the ambulance arriving at the back area of the arena with Sting's knee wrapped up. Dangerously demanded referee Nick Patrick start the match and count Sting out, but he kept interrupting the count which allowed Sting enough time to make it out to the ring. After having trouble finding the right door to enter the building, his fight song started playing and Sting limped out. Rude met him at the runway with punches but Sting was so pumped he took it to him instead and the match was underway. Rude defeated Sting, mainly due to his injured knee, with a small package pin. On the following episode of \"World Championship Wrestling\" (this was before \"Monday Nitro\"), Dangerously formed his group with Rude, Eaton, Madusa, Arn Anderson, Larry Zbyszko and \"Stunning\" Steve Austin.\n\nThe Dangerous Alliance went on to dominate WCW for the next six months, as Anderson and Eaton won the WCW World Tag Team Championship and Austin held the WCW World Television Championship for a time. Their main feuds were with Sting, Ricky Steamboat, Barry Windham, Dustin Rhodes, and Nikita Koloff. The Alliance and its rivals went back and forth until they settled their issues in a gruesome \"WarGames\" match at WrestleWar (1992). During the match, Rude removed the turnbuckle from the post; Zbyszko tried to hit Sting with the metal hook but ended up hitting his stablemate Eaton instead, allowing Sting to apply an armbar to Eaton and garner a submission victory for his team. After the match, Zbyszko was expelled from the Alliance, which began the group's downfall.\n\nRude and Madusa went their own separate way and had much success. Anderson and Eaton started running with Michael Hayes, but they came back to Dangerously when he fired Madusa publicly at Halloween Havoc in October and she came after him, Austin went on forming a tag team with Flyin Brian. By the end of November 1992 after the Clash of the Champions XXI, the Dangerous Alliance had disbanded after Dangerously left after a bitter contract dispute.\n\nArn Anderson, in an interview video with RF Video, referred to the Dangerous Alliance as one of the greatest gatherings of talent ever. However, Anderson opined that it never became a memorable group because of WCW's incompetent bookers (i.e. Jim Herd, Kip Allen Frey, and Bill Watts) failing to promote stars.\n\nDangerously revived the Dangerous Alliance in NWA Eastern Championship Wrestling (NWA-ECW) in 1993 with Jimmy Snuka, Don Muraco, The Dark Patriot and \"Hot Stuff\" Eddie Gilbert. On the October 19th, 1993 episode of ECW Hardcore TV, Paul Heyman introduced a new Dangerous Alliance featuring ECW Heavyweight Champion Shane Douglas and Sherri Martel as Director of Covert Operations. When Heyman attempted to introduce Sabu as the bodyguard, Shane Douglas balked and stated that he was not consulted on this decision. Sherri Martel sided with Shane Douglas and the arguments continued in the locker room. By August 1994, when ECW broke away from the NWA and renamed itself Extreme Championship Wrestling, Dangerously formed the last incarnation of the Dangerous Alliance composed of The Tazmaniac, Sabu, and 911. Tazmaniac and Sabu wound up winning the ECW World Tag Team Championship in February 1995, before losing the titles three weeks later. In April 1995, Sabu was fired by Dangerously, due to choosing a tour with New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) over a booking on April 8. In July 1995, The Tazmaniac, now under the name Taz, suffered a serious neck injury during a tag team match in Florida. With Sabu fired and Taz injured, Dangerously finally disbanded The Dangerous Alliance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855937", "title": "Andrew Simmons", "text": "Andrew Simmons\n\nAndrew Simmons (born 21 May 1984), better known by his ring name Andy Boy Simmonz, is a British professional wrestler. He is currently working in the independent circuit in the United Kingdom for several promotions. Simmons' most high-profile work in the UK came in the Frontier Wrestling Alliance under the face gimmick of Simmons the Butler. Simmons later returned to the FWA under the ring name Andy Boy Simmons but remained face. He is the current CWL Heavyweight Champion in the Championship Wrestling League.\n\nThe Boy in Simmons' ring name comes from his idol Davey Boy Smith, best known as WWF's British Bulldog. Simmons has taken on many elements of the Bulldog character including the ring gear and the finishing move. He now teaches classes in Portsmouth at the revolution pro wrestling school on Saturdays, Sundays and Wednesdays.\n\nHe was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis in his childhood.\n\nHe went to school in Liphook, Hampshire. Simmons first planned to train to become a wrestler at the NWA-UK Hammerlock training school, but not long after securing a week-long training session in August 2000 Simmons received news of a new training centre starting up in Portsmouth, The FWA Academy, which was 30 minutes away from him.\n\nDuring 2004, Simmons would wrestle in Italy for the Italian Championship Wrestling promotion, and around the rest UK for All Star and Premier Promotions before finally leaving the FWA Academy for good. In May, Simmons defeated Tommy Stevens in a Tables Match to win a one night tournament for the EWF trophy at the Weymouth Pavilion in Weymouth, Dorset.\n\nOutside of the more mainstream promotions Simmons competes for many independent promotions in the UK, most notably All Star, Real Quality Wrestling, Varsity Pro Wrestling and abroad on various European tours. During his time on the UK indies Simmons would begin teaming with Eamon O'Neill under the team name Irish Connection and later, The United Lions. During a tour of Italy in September 2006, Simmons suffered a broken ankle in a rumble match. Simmons was flown back early from the tour to have surgery which should have put him out of action until 2007.\n\nSimmons' debut for the company was on 20 January 2001 at FWA Unknown Quantity 2 where he faced of in a Rookies Match against Dave Crispin, Simmons won the match with a victory roll, which he would later be named his \"Simmonz Roll\". After this well received debut Simmons went undefeated for 18 months, but after his first defeat in the FWA Academy Simmons took time away to wrestle in The Wrestling Alliance.\n\nAfter time away in the independent circuit, Simmons returned to the FWA Academy in 2003. During Simmons' time in the Academy e wrestled against many of the up-and-coming British stars like James Tighe, Raj Ghosh, Mark Sloan, and Paul Burchill. Simmons also took part in the final TWA tour facing British wrestling superstars \"The Anarchist\" Doug Williams, Jody Fleisch, and Robbie Brookside.\n\nSimmons came up into the FWA main roster with the gimmick of a stereotypical English butler, in the style of Jeeves in the Jeeves and Wooster novels. Within a year as The Duke of Danger’s trusty butler sidekick, Simmons would become one of the most popular wrestlers in the FWA’s history. As part of the tag-team Hampton Court with the Duke of Danger, and their valet \"Buttercup\". He would soon go on to hold the tag titles in the company with the Duke for a short time, before losing them to the team of Stixx & Martin Stone.\n\nAfter another absence away from the FWA Simmons split away from Hampton Court but returned under the name Andy Boy Simmons. He set out to find a new tag partner, one he could team with to win the tag belts from the champs Stixx and Stone. Simmons return to FWA with new tag team partner, Eamon O'Neill, as \"The United Lions\".\n\nSimmons has also appeared regularly in (IPW:UK) shows from late 2004 right through into 2006. During a show on 21 November 2004, Robbie Brookside defeated The International Man Of Mystery 2-1 in a British Rules match after the match the Man of Mystery was unmasked as Simmons, but Brookside was then attacked by Stevie Douglas, Douglas went on to say that he was the real International Man of Mystery.\n\nIn 2005, Andy Boy Simmonz entered into IPW:UK's heavyweight division and became a fan favourite. In July 2005, Simmonz would also make his mark in IPW:UK's tag team division teaming with the British Bulldog's son, Harry \"Bulldog\" Smith as \"British Beef\". On 18 February 2006, however, Simmonz turned on the company's mainly internet based fans who regularly \"booed\" him and unsuccessfully attempted to de-throne IPW:UK Champion Martin Stone at the event in Orpington, Kent.\n\nSimmonz soon fell back into his heel persona in IPW:UK and even had a bodyguard for a short time in June. Around this time, Simmonz won an over-the-top rumble at \"Battle Royale\" to earn himself any match of his choice in IPW:UK. However, by September, Simmonz had left IPW:UK (due to the injury he suffered on tour) claiming he was retiring without ever utilizing the stipulation. On 22 October 2006, while still incapacitated and in a wheelchair Simmonz used the stipulation to gain himself a No DQ, Falls Count Anywhere bout for the IPW:UK title. After help from Aviv Maayan and Simmons' former bodyguard, LT Summers, as well as a steel crutch, Simmonz became the third IPW:UK Champion. The team are known as the \"Hated Heroes\".\n\nIt was announced that at the cross over event IPW:UK vs New Generation Wrestling in Hull on Friday 13 February 2009, Simmonz would represent IPW to take on NGW's \"Prima Donna\" Nathan Cruz, a match which saw Simmonz win, thus earning the first point for team IPW, Simmonz later wrestled in an IPW vs NGW 6 man elimination tag team match which was won by NGW's Alex Cyanide when Cyanide pinned Simmonz.\n\nSimmons would also become one of the British stars in the 1 Pro Wrestling roster from its inception in 2005, competing under his heel persona. Simmons appeared in 1PW's inaugural match the Proving Ground Battle Royal but didn't appear again on a 1PW card for several months for a brief stint before leaving the company once again.\n\nIn 2006, Simmons would make a return to 1PW as the surprise tag team partner from Lance Storm before working a pro wrestling storyline in which he would take open challenges from any competitor for a match. Simmonz's open challenges resulted in a long losing streak for Simmonz in 1PW.\n\nSimmons would also make appearances in Real Quality Wrestling as both a face and a heel. As a heel, Simmons would team with Aviv Maayan as \"The Hated Heroes\". They participated in the RQW British Tag Team Tournament to have a chance of becoming RQW British Tag Team Champions. They made it to the final but were defeated by \"Team Charming\". Simmons is also known for teaming with James Tighe as \"The Iron Lions\".\n\nDuring World Wrestling Entertainment shows held in London, England, Simmons has participated as an enhancement talent. Simmons was a part of WWE's 2006 tour of the United Kingdom where he worked for the company, competing on both its \"WWE Velocity\" and \"WWE Heat\" shows. Simmons would compete against Matt Hardy in a singles match on \"Velocity\" and teamed with Eric Schwarz to face the team of Goldust and Snitsky during \"Heat\".\n\nOn 15 October 2007 Birmingham, England edition of \"WWE Raw\", Simmons competed in a few squash matches against Umaga. He was put through 3 types of matches by Mr. McMahon: a Street Fight, a First Blood Match, and a Steel Cage Match. Simmons lost all three matches.\n\nIn June 2008, Simmons took part in an Irish Whip Wrestling Show in the ESB Arena in Dublin where he beat Chad Collyer.\n\nOn 16 November 2010, Simmons competed in a Championship Tournament for Fightstar Sports Entertainment's vacant All-Counties Championship at the Barrington Centre in Ferndown, Dorset. After beating X-Con in the first round, he went on to win the title in the main event Triple Threat match that night, beating Jivin' Jay Knox and 'Iron Hulk' Karl Atlas to lift the title.\n\nSimmons is an active competitor and trainer in Revolution Pro Wrestling at the FWA's former training facility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855946", "title": "Straub–Huillet", "text": "Straub–Huillet\n\nJean-Marie Straub (; born 8 January 1933) and Danièle Huillet (; 1 May 1936 – 9 October 2006) were a duo of French filmmakers who made two dozen films between 1963 and 2006. Their films are noted for their rigorous, intellectually stimulating style and radical, communist politics. Though both were French, they worked mostly in Germany and Italy. \"From the Clouds to the Resistance\" (1979) and \"Sicilia!\" (1999) are among the duo's best regarded works.\n\nStraub, who was born in Metz, met Paris-born Huillet as a student in 1954. Straub was involved in the Parisian cinephile community at the time. He was friends with Francois Truffaut and contributed to his publication Cahiers du Cinéma, although Truffaut refused to publish Straub's more inflammatory writings. He worked as an assistant to the film director Jacques Rivette on the 1956 film \"A Fool's Mate\". The pair later emigrated to Germany so that Straub could avoid military service in Algeria. In 1963, they made \"Machorka-Muff\", an 18-minute short based on a Heinrich Böll story and their first collaboration. Their next film, the 55-minute \"Not Reconciled\", was also a Böll adaptation.\n\nThey did not make a full-length feature until 1968's \"Chronicle of Anna Magdalena Bach\", after which they made films at a fairly even rate, completing a feature every 2–3 years. In 1968, they also made a short film starring Rainer Werner Fassbinder and his theatre troupe called \"The Bridegroom, the Actress and the Pimp\". In the mid 1970s, they began producing films in Italy. Increasingly, they began splitting their time between Germany and Italy, as well as frequently collaborating with French and British producers.\n\nStraub and Huillet lived together for most of their lives. They had no children. Huillet died of cancer in Cholet on 9 October 2006, aged 70.\n\nAll of the films of Straub and Huillet are based on other works: novels, operas, plays, and less conventional source materials, such as political writings. Their sources include writings by Marguerite Duras, Franz Kafka, Elio Vittorini and Bertolt Brecht; two operas by Arnold Schoenberg; letters written by Friedrich Engels, Wassily Kandinsky, and J.S. Bach; and other films, including Rossellini's \"Europa '51\". Many of their films, such as \"Klassenverhältnisse\", stress the relationship between the original text and the film.\n\nDue to his more extroverted nature, Jean-Marie Straub served as the public face of the couple: this has contributed to the widespread assumption that Huillet's role in their filmmaking process was secondary. In reality, the two split their work equally, with Straub responsible for \"mise en scène\", Huillet controlling much of the production design and editing process, and the two being equally responsible for the pre-production, texts and rehearsals. This method can be seen in Pedro Costa's documentary \"Where Does Your Hidden Smile Lie?\", filmed during the editing of \"Sicilia!\", one of their last features.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855954", "title": "Sanabares of Parthia", "text": "Sanabares of Parthia\n\nSanabares of Parthia was a rival king of the Parthian Empire from ca. 50 to 65. There is not much known about Sanabares, except from a few coins witnessing to his rule as a Parthian king, with his capital in the city of Merv for about fifteen years. This much we owe to the dates known from certain coins of Sanabares. He was rival to Gotarzes II of Parthia (reigned 40–51), Vonones II of Parthia (reigned 51), Vologases I of Parthia (reigned 51–78) and Vardanes II of Parthia (reigned 55–58).\n\n"}
{"id": "1855955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855955", "title": "Poor Knights Islands Marine Reserve", "text": "Poor Knights Islands Marine Reserve\n\nThe Poor Knights Islands Marine Reserve is a protected area off the coast of the North Island of New Zealand. The reserve, established in 1981 and covering an area of , is administered by the Department of Conservation. It surrounds the Poor Knights Islands and adjacent rock stacks Sugarloaf Rock and High Peak Rocks. It is one of the world's ten most popular sites for scuba diving. with dive trips regularly leaving from the town of Tutukaka.\n\nThe reserve has also been one of the primary areas studied and documented by Wade Doak, one of New Zealand's most prominent marine experts and advocates for marine reserves.\n\nWhen the reserve was founded in 1981, commercial fishing was banned, but recreational fishing was still allowed. A full ban on fishing was finally implemented seventeen years later in 1998. Currently, it is prohibited to disturb marine life or remove rocks or shells in the marine reserve. No commercial fishing is permitted within one nautical mile (1,852 m) and long lining is the only commercial fishing permitted between one and three nautical miles. The islands are a popular diving location due to the variety of marine fauna found there, and are popular also for their intriguing landforms, which include natural arches and caves.\n\nA study examined the response of snapper (\"Pagrus auratus\") to the establishment of a no-take reserve around the Poor Knights Islands. The Poor Knights and two reference locations, Cape Brett and the Mokohinau Islands, were sampled biannually for four years using baited underwater video (BUV).\n\nFollowing full marine reserve status at the Poor Knights in October 1998, snapper showed significant increases in abundance and biomass relative to fished control locations. This was particularly apparent for large snapper (>270 mm), whose numbers increased rapidly to levels 7.4 times higher in the final survey compared to the initial pre-reserve survey, and total snapper biomass increased by 818%. There was no significant increase in the abundance, biomass or size of snapper at the reference locations over this time.\n\nWhile the incredible increase in snapper density resulted from the immigration of adult fish into the reserve, rather than from within-reserve recruitment, these results suggests that partial fishing regulations, as implemented in the early years of the reserve, are ineffective for protecting targeted species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855958", "title": "Shuttle Avionics Integration Laboratory", "text": "Shuttle Avionics Integration Laboratory\n\nThe Shuttle Avionics Integration Laboratory (SAIL) was a facility at Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. It was the only facility in the Space Shuttle Program where actual orbiter hardware and flight software can be integrated and tested in a simulated flight environment. It supported the entire Space Shuttle program to perform integrated verification tests. It also contained Firing Room Launch Equipment identical to that used at KSC. Thus complete ground verifications as well as countdown and abort operations could be tested and simulated.\n\nThe testing process is extensive and rigorous; the software on the Shuttle is often considered to be among the most bug-free of operational systems.\n\nThe laboratory contains a complete avionics mock-up of a Shuttle, designated OV-095. While only a skeleton of an orbiter, the electronics are identical in position and type to those used on the Shuttle; it is a sufficiently faithful replica that crews sometimes prefer to use it to train on, rather than the training simulators.\n\nNASA personnel who have been assigned to SAIL testing include Charlie Bolden (former NASA Administrator), Michael Coats (former Director at JSC NASA), Brewster Shaw (Boeing Vice President of Space Exploration Division) and Al Crews (selected as an astronaut for the X-20 Dyna-Soar).The first SAIL commander was James E. Westom of Rockwell International, retired Major USAF. He flew the Approach and Landing phase in SAIL before Space Shuttle Enterprise was launched off the top of the NASA C-747 airplane to prove it could fly on its own in the atmosphere.\n\nThe SAIL facility will be renovated and recreated as a stop on the Space Center Houston Level 9 Tour, a separate add-on to the visitor's center admission in which tourists are given entrance to buildings normally off limits to visitors.\n"}
{"id": "1855963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855963", "title": "Sethianism", "text": "Sethianism\n\nThe Sethians were one of the main currents of Gnosticism during the 2nd and 3rd century CE, along with Valentinianism and Basilideanism. According to John D. Turner, it originated in the second-century CE as a fusion of two distinct Hellenistic Judaic philosophies, and was influenced by Christianity and Middle Platonism. However, the exact origin of Sethianism is not properly understood.\n\nThe Sethians (Latin \"Sethoitae\") are first mentioned, alongside the Ophites, in the 2nd century, by Irenaeus and in Pseudo-Tertullian (Ch. 30). According to Frederik Wisse all subsequent accounts appear to be largely dependent on Irenaeus. Hippolytus repeats information from Irenaeus.\n\nAccording to Epiphanius of Salamis (c. 375) Sethians were in his time found only in Egypt and Palestine, although fifty years before they had been found as far away as Greater Armenia.\n\nPhilaster's (4th century CE) \"Catalogue of Heresies\" places the Ophites, Cainites, and Sethians as pre-Christian Jewish sects. However, since Sethians identified Seth with Christ (\"Second Logos of the Great Seth\"), Philaster's belief that the Sethians had pre-Christian origins, other than in syncretic absorption of Jewish and Greek pre-Christian sources, has not found acceptance in later scholarship.\n\nAccording to John D. Turner, British and French scholarship tends to see Sethianism as \"a form of heterodox Christian speculation,\" while German and American scholarship views it as \"a distinctly inner-Jewish, albeit syncretistic and heterodox, phenomenon.\" Roelof van den Broek notes that \"Sethianism\" may never have been a separate religious movement, but that the term rather refers to a set of mythological themes which occur in various texts. According to Turner, Sethianism was influenced by Christianity and Middle Platonism, and six phases can be discerned in the interaction of Sethianism with Christianity and Platonism.\n\n\"Phase 1\". According to Turner, two different groups, existing before the second century CE, formed the basis for the Sethians: a Jewish group of possibly priestly lineage, the so-called \"Barbeloites\", named after Barbelo, the first emanation of the Highest God, and a group of Biblical exegetes, the \"Sethites\", the \"seed of Seth.\"\n\n\"Phase 2\". The \"Barbeloites\" were a baptizing group who, in the mid second century, fused with Christian baptizing groups. They started to view the pre-existing Christ as the \"self-generated (Autogenes) Son of Barbelo,\" who was \"anointed with the Invisible Spirit's \"Christhood\".\" According to Turner, this \"same anointing [was] received by the Barbeloites in their baptismal rite by which they were assimilated to the archetypal Son of Man.\" The earthly Jesus was regarded as the guise of Barbelo, appearing as the Divine Logos, and receiving Christhood when he was baptized.\n\n\"Phase 3\". In the later second century CE the Christianized Barbeloites fused with the Sethites, together forming the Gnostic Sethianists. Seth and Christ were identified as bearers of \"the true image of God who had recently appeared in the world as the Logos to rescue Jesus from the cross.\"\n\n\"Phase 4\". At the end of the second century Sethianism grew apart from the developing Christian orthodoxy, which rejected the docetian view of the Sethians on Christ.\n\n\"Phase 5\". In the early third century Sethianism was fully rejected by Christian heresiologists, while Sethianism shifted toward the contemplative practices of Platonism, while losing their interest in their own origins.\n\n\"Phase 6\". In the late third century Sethianism was attacked by neo-Platonists like Plotinus, and Sethianism alienated from Platonism. In the early to mid fourth century, Sethianism fragmented into various sectarian Gnostic groups, like the Archontics, Audians, Borborites, and Phibionites. Some of these groups existed into the Middle Ages.\n\nSethianism attributed its \"gnosis\" to Seth, third son of Eve and Adam and \"Norea\", wife of Noah, who also plays a role in Mandeanism and Manicheanism. The Sethian cosmogonic myth gives a prologue to Genesis and the rest of the Pentateuch, presenting a radical reinterpretation of the orthodox Jewish conception of creation, and the divine's relation to reality. The Sethian cosmogony is most famously contained in the \"Apocryphon of John\", which describes an Unknown God, the same as Paul had done in the Acts of the Apostles 17:23. Many of the Sethian concepts derived from a fusion of Platonic or Neoplatonic concepts with the Old Testament, as was common in Hellenistic Judaism, exemplified by Philo (20 BC - 40 AD).\n\nFrom the “Unknown God” emanate \"aeons\", a series of paired female and male beings. The first of these is Barbelo, who is coactor in the emanations that follow. The aeons that result are representative of the various attributes of God, which are indiscernible when they are not abstracted from their origin. God and the aeons comprise the sum total of the spiritual universe, known as the \"Pleroma\".\n\nIn some versions of the myth, the Aeon Sophia \"imitates\" God's actions, performing an emanation of her own, without the prior approval of the other aeons in the Pleroma. This results in a crisis within the Pleroma, leading to the appearance of the \"Yaldabaoth\", a \"serpent with a lion's head.\" This figure is commonly known as the demiurge, the \"artisan\" or \"craftsman,\" after the figure in Plato's Timaeus. This being is at first hidden by Sophia but subsequently escapes, stealing a portion of divine power from her in the process.\n\nUsing this stolen power, Yaldabaoth creates a material world in imitation of the divine Pleroma. To complete this task, he spawns a group of entities known collectively as Archons, \"petty rulers\" and craftsmen of the physical world. Like him, they are commonly depicted as theriomorphic, having the heads of animals. Some texts explicitly identify the Archons with the fallen angels described in the Enoch tradition in Judaic apocrypha.\n\nAt this point the events of the Sethian narrative begin to cohere with the events of \"Genesis\", with the demiurge and his archontic cohorts fulfilling the role of the creator. As in \"Genesis\", the demiurge declares himself to be the only god, and that none exist superior to him. However, the audience's knowledge of what has gone before casts this statement, and the nature of the creator itself, in a radically different light.\n\nThe demiurge creates Adam, during the process unwittingly transferring the portion of power stolen from Sophia into the first physical human body. He then creates Eve from Adam's rib, in an attempt to isolate and regain the power he has lost. By way of this he attempts to rape Eve who now contains Sophia's divine power; several texts depict him as failing when Sophia's spirit transplants itself into the Tree of Knowledge. Thereafter, the pair are \"tempted\" by the serpent, and eat of the forbidden fruit, thereby once more regaining the power that the demiurge had stolen.\n\nAs is evident, the addition of the prologue radically alters the significance of events in Eden. Rather than emphasizing a fall of human weakness in breaking God's command, Sethians (and their inheritors) emphasize a crisis of the Divine Fullness as it encounters the ignorance of matter, as depicted in stories about Sophia. Eve and Adam's removal from the Archon's paradise is seen as a step towards freedom from the Archons. Therefore, the snake in the Garden of Eden becomes a heroic, salvific figure rather than an adversary of humanity or a 'proto-Satan'. Eating the fruit of Knowledge is the first act of human salvation from cruel, oppressive powers.\n\nMost surviving Sethian texts are preserved only in Coptic translation of the Greek original. \nVery little direct evidence of Gnostic teaching was available prior to the discovery of the \nNag Hammadi library, a collection of 4th-century Coptic translations of Gnostic texts which were apparently hidden \nin reaction to Athanasius of Alexandria's Easter letter of 367 which banned the use of non-canonical books.\nSome of these texts are known to have been in existence in the 2nd century, but it is impossible to exclude the presence of later syncretic material in their 4th-century translations.\n\n\nThe Gospel of Judas is the most recently discovered Gnostic text. National Geographic has published an English translation of it, bringing it into mainstream awareness. It portrays Judas Iscariot as the \"thirteenth spirit (daemon)\", who \"exceeded\" the evil sacrifices the disciples offered to Saklas by sacrificing the \"man who clothed me (Jesus)\". Its reference to Barbelo and inclusion of material similar to the Apocryphon of John and other such texts, connects the text to Barbeloite and/or Sethian Gnosticism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855966", "title": "Blinking Lights and Other Revelations", "text": "Blinking Lights and Other Revelations\n\nBlinking Lights and Other Revelations is the sixth studio album by American band Eels. It was recorded over the space of 1998 to 2004 and released on April 26, 2005 through record label Vagrant, his first album on a new label following Eels' departure from DreamWorks Records.\n\nA 33-track double album, \"Blinking Lights\" has been seen as one of frontman E's most personal records, and was met with some of the strongest critical reviews of his career. The album features guest appearances by Tom Waits, Peter Buck and John Sebastian.\n\nEels frontman E described \"Blinking Lights\" on the official website as being about \"God and all the questions related to the subject of God. It's also about hanging on to my remaining shreds of sanity and the blue sky that comes the day after a terrible storm, and it's a love letter to life itself, in all its beautiful, horrible glory.\"\n\nThe sleeve and liner notes are composed of typewritten lyrics and family photos.\n\nThis is original drummer Jonathan \"Butch\" Norton's last album with the band.\n\nThe album was released through Vagrant Records on April 26, 2005, following the dissolution of Eels' contract with DreamWorks Records and the label's eventual take-over by Universal Music Group.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, the band announced that 2,500 autographed copies of the album would be published on vinyl. The songs were split across three records, with a fourth record serving as the bonus album \"Manchester 2005\". The band made four of those tracks available as a free download for a week within announcing the album.\n\n\"Blinking Lights and Other Revelations\" was met with critical acclaim.\n\nMark Horan of PopMatters wrote, \"E is one of the best songwriters America has to offer, and he has made as personal, poignant and ultimately redeeming an album that you are ever going to hear.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote, \"Everett finally delivers the absolute stone masterpiece fans have always known lurked inside his dour heart.\" \"Under the Radar\" called it \"some of the best-written songs of this new century\".\n\nAll songs written by E, except where indicated.\n\n\n\nThis live album is only available on disc four of the deluxe edition of \"Blinking Lights and Other Revelations\". The songs were recorded on October 13, 2005, in Manchester at the Manchester Apollo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855969", "title": "Kafir harp", "text": "Kafir harp\n\nThe Kafir harp (known in the local language as waj, waji, vaj or vaji) is a traditional four- or five-stringed arched harp used by the Kafirs in the Nuristan province of Afghanistan. It is played during social gatherings, and to accompany epic storytelling or songs of heroic tales. \n\nSimilar harps used to be widespread in ancient times throughout Central Asia and India, and this harp possibly entered Afghanistan during the spread of Buddhism across the region but today the \"waji\" is not used in any other part of Afghanistan. It has been compared to the ennanga of Uganda and harp designs used in Sumer and Ancient Egypt as far back as 3000 BCE.\n\nThe Kafir harp is constructed of two main components, the soundbox and the stringholder. The soundbox is made from a hollowed piece of wood with a thick piece of animal skin stretched over it. The stringholder is a curved branch that sits on top of the soundbox, and up to five strings are pulled through holes created along the side of the branch. On one side of the branch, the strings are held in place with non-tuning knobs, on the other side the strings dangle off the instrument like tassels. One harp collected in an anthropological expedition in the 1950s had four strings that corresponded to the central techrachord of the Dorian mode.\n\nWhen one plays the Kafir harp one has to balance the sound box on the left arm, leaving the strings to face up, rather than away from the musician. It is played with a plectrum in the right hand while using the left hand to mute certain strings. Stylistically, a piece of music featuring the kafir harp may begin with an ostinato figure on the harp, underneath a soloist (who may or may not be the kafir player himself) and/or by syncopated hand-clapping.\n\nThe Nuristanis, who claim a lineage back to Alexander the Great’s Macedonian armies and who converted to Islam in the late 19th century, inhabit a remote mountain area in the north-east. The instruments played in Nuristan tend to be unique to the region, and there are no similar types of zithers or harps like the kafir harp to be found in other parts of Afghanistan. This harp is played predominantly by men in the region.\n"}
{"id": "1855970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855970", "title": "Kirby Morrow", "text": "Kirby Morrow\n\nKirby Robert Morrow (born August 28, 1973) is a Canadian actor, voice artist, writer and comedian. Morrow was born in Jasper, Alberta and studied theatre at Mount Royal University in Calgary, and currently works in Vancouver, British Columbia. In animation, he is known as the voice of Miroku from \"InuYasha\", Van Fanel from the Ocean dub of \"Escaflowne\", Cyclops from \"X-Men Evolution\", Jay from \"Class of the Titans\", Teru Mikami from \"Death Note\", Trowa Barton from \"Mobile Suit Gundam Wing\", Ryo Takatsuki from \"Project ARMS\", Goku from Ocean's dub of \"Dragon Ball Z\" (from Episode 160 onwards), and Cole from \"\". On camera, he is known for the recurring role of Captain Dave Kleinman from \"Stargate Atlantis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1855974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855974", "title": "Tautological one-form", "text": "Tautological one-form\n\nIn mathematics, the tautological one-form is a special 1-form defined on the cotangent bundle formula_1 of a manifold formula_2. In physics, it is used to create a correspondence between the velocity of a point in a mechanical system to its momentum, thus providing a bridge between Lagrangian mechanics with Hamiltonian mechanics (on the manifold formula_2). \n\nThe exterior derivative of this form defines a symplectic form giving formula_1 the structure of a symplectic manifold. The tautological one-form plays an important role in relating the formalism of Hamiltonian mechanics and Lagrangian mechanics. The tautological one-form is sometimes also called the Liouville one-form, the Poincaré one-form, the canonical one-form, or the symplectic potential. A similar object is the canonical vector field on the tangent bundle.\n\nIn canonical coordinates, the tautological one-form is given by\n\nEquivalently, any coordinates on phase space which preserve this structure for the canonical one-form, up to a total differential (exact form), may be called canonical coordinates; transformations between different canonical coordinate systems are known as canonical transformations.\n\nThe canonical symplectic form, also known as the Poincaré two-form, is given by\n\nThe extension of this concept to general fibre bundles is known as the solder form. By convention, one uses the phrase \"canonical form\" whenever the form has a unique, canonical definition, and one uses the term \"solder form\", whenever an arbitrary choice has to be made. In algebraic geometry and complex geometry the term \"canonical\" is discouraged, due to confusion with the canonical class, and the term \"tautological\" is preferred, as in tautological bundle.\n\nThe variables formula_7 are meant to be understood as generalized coordinates, so that a point formula_8 is a point in configuration space. The tangent space formula_9 corresponds to velocities, so that if formula_10 is moving along a path formula_11, the instantaneous velocity at formula_12 corresponds a point \n\non the tangent manifold formula_9, for the given location of the system at point formula_8. Velocities are appropriate for the Lagrangian formulation of classical mechanics, but in the Hamiltonian formulation, one works with momenta, and not velocities; the tautological one-form is a device that converts velocities into momenta. \n\nThat is, the tautological one-form assigns a numerical value to the momentum formula_16 for each velocity formula_17, and more: it does so such that they point \"in the same direction\", and linearly, such that the magnitudes grow in proportion. It is called \"tautological\" precisely because, \"of course\", velocity and momenta are necessarily proportional to one-another. It is a kind of solder form, because it \"glues\" or \"solders\" each velocity to a corresponding momentum. The choice of gluing is unique; each momentum vector corresponds to only one velocity vector, by definition. The tautological one-form can be thought of as a device to convert from Lagrangian mechanics to Hamiltonian mechanics.\n\nThe tautological 1-form can also be defined rather abstractly as a form on phase space. Let formula_2 be a manifold and formula_19 be the cotangent bundle or phase space. Let \n\nbe the canonical fiber bundle projection, and let \n\nbe the induced tangent map. Let formula_22 be a point on formula_23. Since formula_23 is the cotangent bundle, we can understand formula_22 to be a map of the tangent space at formula_26:\n\nThat is, we have that formula_22 is in the fiber of formula_10. The tautological one-form formula_30 at point formula_22 is then defined to be\n\nIt is a linear map\n\nand so \n\nThe symplectic potential is generally defined a bit more freely, and also only defined locally: it is any one-form formula_35 such that formula_36; in effect, symplectic potentials differ from the canonical 1-form by a closed form.\n\nThe tautological one-form is the unique horizontal one-form that \"cancels\" a pullback. That is, let \n\nbe any 1-form on formula_2, and (considering it as a map from formula_2 to formula_40) let formula_41 denote the operation of pulling back by formula_42. Then\n\nwhich can be most easily understood in terms of coordinates:\n\nSo, by the commutation between the pull-back and the exterior derivative,\n\nIf formula_46 is a Hamiltonian on the cotangent bundle and formula_47 is its Hamiltonian flow, then the corresponding action formula_48 is given by\n\nIn more prosaic terms, the Hamiltonian flow represents the classical trajectory of a mechanical system obeying the Hamilton-Jacobi equations of motion. The Hamiltonian flow is the integral of the Hamiltonian vector field, and so one writes, using traditional notation for action-angle variables:\n\nwith the integral understood to be taken over the manifold defined by holding the energy formula_51 constant: formula_52.\n\nIf the manifold formula_2 has a Riemannian or pseudo-Riemannian metric formula_54, then corresponding definitions can be made in terms of generalized coordinates. Specifically, if we take the metric to be a map\n\nthen define\n\nand \n\nIn generalized coordinates formula_58 on formula_9, one has\n\nand \n\nThe metric allows one to define a unit-radius sphere in formula_40. The canonical one-form restricted to this sphere forms a contact structure; the contact structure may be used to generate the geodesic flow for this metric.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855981", "title": "Nettie Mayersohn", "text": "Nettie Mayersohn\n\nNettie Mayersohn (born May 30, 1924) is a former member of the New York State Assembly, representing the 27th District in Flushing, Queens. Her district extended from Kew Gardens Hills, to Kew Gardens and the northern edge of Richmond Hill.\n\nShe was born on May 30, 1924. She graduated B.A. from Queens College in 1978. She is resident of the Electchester cooperative housing complex in Flushing, Queens. She married Ronald Mayersohn, and they have two children.\n\nMayersohn spent 30 years as a community activist, and was Executive Director of the New York State Crime Victims Board. She is a Democrat. She was a member of the New York State Assembly from 1983 to 2011, sitting in the 185th, 186th, 187th, 188th, 189th, 190th, 191st, 192nd, 193rd, 194th, 195th, 196th, 197th, 198th, and 199th New York State Legislatures, where she was a prime sponsor of the Baby AIDS Bill, which requires all newborns to be tested for that disease. The \"Black And Latino AIDS Coalition\" (BLAC) strongly supported Mayersohn's \"Baby AIDS Bill\" and the \"HIV Surveillance Bill\". Dennis Levy, the HIV+ African American President of the community-based \"BLAC\", was criticized by New York City AIDS advocates for supporting Mayersohn but the two became close friends. She resigned her seat on April 1, 2011, reportedly to spend more time with her grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "1855982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855982", "title": "Kang Senghui", "text": "Kang Senghui\n\nKang Senghui (traditional: 康僧會; simplified: 康僧会; pinyin: Kāng Sēnghuì; Wade–Giles: K'ang Seng-hui; Vietnamese: Khương Tăng Hội; died 280) was a Buddhist monk and translator during the Three Kingdoms period of ancient China. He was born in Jiaozhi (modern-day northern Vietnam). He was the son of a Sogdian merchant, hence the last name of Kang, meaning \"one whose forefathers had been people from Kangju\", or Sogdia. Kang received a Chinese literary education and was \"widely read in the six (Confucian) classics.\" He also read Sanskrit and was known for his knowledge of the Tripiñaka (the Buddhist canon). He joined the \"saïgha\" (the Buddhist monastic order) as a teenager, following the death of his parents. Kang contributed more to the diffusion of Buddhist sutras as a preacher than to their translation into the Chinese language as there are only two collections of \"avadānas\" in the canon which are attributed to him. According to legend, the first Buddha relic in China appeared in a vase in 248 C.E. so that Kang Senghui would have something to show a local ruler. Sun Quan, the king of Eastern Wu, would unsuccessfully attempt to destroy the tooth by subjecting it to various tests. \n\nKang is known as Khương Tăng Hội in Vietnam and Thông Biện (1096) claims scriptural traditions from Kang influenced Vietnamese Buddhism, though there is no independent evidence for this tradition.\n\nKhương Tăng Hội is regarded as the first Vietnamese patriarch of Zen Buddhism in Vietnam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855989", "title": "Katherine Porter", "text": "Katherine Porter\n\nKatherine Porter (1941) is an American artist. Born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa in 1941, Porter is considered one of the most important contemporary artists associated with Maine. She resists categorization.\nThrough the medium of painting and drawing her visually stunning canvases convey the conflict inherent in life. She expresses her ideas with a visual vocabulary that is \"geometric and gestural, abstract and figurative, decorative and raw, lyric and muscular.\" \n\nPorter has shown twice in the Whitney Biennial and solo exhibitions at the Knoedler Gallery in London, the Nina Nielsen Gallery in Boston, and the Andre Emmerich and Salander-O'Reilly Galleries in New York. Her work is in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Museum of Modern Art, Whitney Museum of American Art, Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, and the Tel Aviv Museum in Jerusalem. She currently resides in Maine. \n\nKatherine Louanne Pavlis was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and grew up in rural Iowa. Her birth date has been given variously as September 11, 1944 and 1941. She moved to Colorado in the late 1950s, studying at Colorado College in Colorado Springs, Colorado from 1959-1961. She also studied at Boston University, where her teachers included Conger Metcalf and Walter Tandy Murch. She received her Bachelor of Arts degree in 1963.\n\nWhile living in Colorado Katherine met and married Stephen Porter, a sculptor and the child of photographer Eliot Porter and his wife Aline Kilham. Stephen and Katherine were married on January 28, 1962, and divorced in 1967.\nAs a couple they traveled to South America, spending time in the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, and Peru. Katherine Porter's concern for the political and social conflict in South America is shown in many of her works, including \"Swann's Song\" (1975).\n\nPorter was active in Boston's artistic community during much of the 1960s. She was part of The Studio Coalition in Boston’s South End, combining artistic and political concerns.\nIn 1971 she held her first solo exhibitions, and sold her first work to collector Betty Parsons.\n\nIn 1972 Porter moved to New Mexico, where she lived until 1976. \nDuring this time she continued to exhibit in New England, and by 1979, she had returned to Boston.\nDuring this period, works such as her \"Swann's Song\" (1975) built upon a grid to achieves three-dimensional effects.\nShe later moved to Maine. By 2017, she was living in Rhinebeck, New York. She is considered one of New England's significant painters.\n\nKatherine Porter received an honorary doctorate from Colby College in 1982 and an honorary doctorate from Bowdoin College in Maine in 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855995", "title": "KOST", "text": "KOST\n\nKOST (103.5 MHz) is a radio station in Los Angeles, California. Owned by iHeartMedia, it broadcasts an adult contemporary format. It is co-located with its sister stations on West Olive Avenue in Burbank. The transmitter is atop Mount Wilson alongside most L.A. based television and FM radio stations. Those FM stations, along with KOST, are considered \"superpower\" grandfathered Class B FM radio stations, since their effective radiated power greatly exceeds the level the U.S. Federal Communications Commission sets for Class B FM stations at the height on Mount Wilson.\n\nKOST broadcasts in the HD (hybrid) format.\n\nOn October 9, 1956, the station first signed on as KGLA.\n\nNoted radio programmer Gordon McLendon bought KGLA in the 1960s, changing the call letters in November 1966 to KADS. McLendon, with permission from the Federal Communications Commission, experimented with an all-advertisement format, hence the call sign choice. One of its features was that listeners could purchase their own commercials on KADS, not unlike classified advertising in a newspaper. FM radios were still not widely owned in the 1960s and the experimental format was not successful.\n\nIn March 1968, the station adopted the KOST-FM call sign, along with a substantially all-music format (i.e., no news bulletins), which was unusual if not unique given then-prevailing license obligations to broadcast at least some news. The station aired a mostly-instrumental beautiful music sound. In 1973, Cox Communications purchased KOST to pair with its newly-bought KFI (640 AM). KOST, with its call sign pronounced \"coast\" in a stage whisper, continued its easy listening sound through the 1970s. This popular format was also heard on rivals KJOI (98.7 FM) and KBIG (104.3).\n\nIn the early 1980s, KOST gradually added more vocals, and on November 15, 1982, the station switched to a soft adult contemporary format. Former Sacramento radio personality Bryan Simmons was KOST's first host when the station signed on with its new format.\n\nOn February 3, 1986, Mark Wallengren and Kim Amidon made their debut as KOST's new morning hosts. The \"Mark & Kim Morning Show\" was one of the longest running shows on Los Angeles radio, airing for more than 20 years until ending in 2007.\n\nIn September 1999, Cox Communications swapped KOST and sister station KFI with AMFM, Inc. for 14 stations in several East Coast markets. AMFM was then purchased by Clear Channel Communications in 2000. (In 2014, the company's name was changed to iHeartMedia, Inc.) Over the years, the station has garnered solid ratings. Christmas music is aired from early November through Xmas Day since 2001.\n\nKOST experienced little turnover among the air staff until the 2000s. On November 29, 2007, morning show co-host Kim Amidon departed the station. This was followed by KOST's original midday host Mike Sakellarides (who moved on to KTWV) and longtime traffic reporter Mike Nolan (who was eventually rehired at KOST). In October 2008, former KYXY San Diego radio personality Kristin Cruz joined Mark Wallengren as co-host of KOST's morning show. Cruz left the station in May 2014. In 2009, the midday shift was voice-tracked by former WLTW New York City personality Karen Carson.\n\nIn February 2011, Carson resigned to join CBS Radio-owned WWFS in New York. Both Christine Martindale and Ted Ziegenbusch filled in on the midday show until August 2011, when former KBIG midday host Kari Steele took over. Steele now hosts KOST's public affairs program \"The Sunday Journal\" broadcasting every Sunday following \"Animal Radio\", providing interviews with community organizations. Also in August, longtime KOST afternoon personality Bryan Simmons left KOST. Simmons had been on the station since 1982, except between 2002 and 2004 when he hosted the \"Boogie Nights\" show at KBIG.\n\nIn December 2012, Christine Martindale was among the radio personalities laid off from Clear Channel stations. On January 17, 2013, it was announced that Martindale would join KKGO (105.1); her first day at Go Country 105 was February 4.\n\nEllen K, a former co-host on the KIIS-FM morning show and \"On Air with Ryan Seacrest\", took over the KOST morning show on October 19, 2015. Mark Wallengren, who had been part of the KOST morning show since 1986, switched to afternoons, replacing Bruce Scott who joined the station since 2012. Recently, following a trend of most AC's, the coast moved to an upbeat format. The station phased out its soft rock moving artists such as Neil Diamond, Barry Manilow and Air Supply to its HD2 stream.\n\nLongtime DJs Mark Wallengren and Ted Zigenbusch departed the station on January 16, 2020 as a result of mass layoffs nationwide by parent company iHeartMedia; the two had been at KOST since the 1980s.\n\nThe following is a list of known airstaff with current airstaff positions with parentheses\n\nKOST broadcasts three digital subchannels:\n\nFrom November 2013 until February 2015, KOST's HD3 signal relayed the syndicated Christian contemporary hit radio station Air1. In early February, the station's HD3 signal went dark and the Air1 feed moved to a subchannel on co-owned KHHT (92.3 FM). The HD3 signal returned in November 2018.\n\nKOST is rebroadcast on the following translator and repeater stations:\nIn 2007, the station was nominated for an \"Adult Contemporary Station of The Year\" award for the top 25 radio markets by Radio & Records magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856015", "title": "Ophite Diagrams", "text": "Ophite Diagrams\n\nThe Ophite Diagrams are ritual and esoteric diagrams used by the Ophite sect of Gnosticism, who revered the serpent from the Garden of Eden as a symbol of wisdom, which the malevolent Demiurge tried to hide from Adam and Eve.\n\nCelsus and his opponent Origen (\"Contra Celsum,\" §§ -) both describe the diagrams, though not in the same way. Celsus describes them as ten separate circles, circumscribed by one circle, the world-soul, Leviathan, divided by a thick black line, Tartarus, together with a square, with words said at the gates of Paradise. Further to this, the Ophites are said by Celsus to add the sayings of prophets, and circles upon circles, with some things written within the two great cosmological circles representing God the Father, and God the Son.\n\nOrigen maintains that there were two concentric circles, across the diameter of which were inscribed the words ΠΑΤΗΡ (\"father\") and ΥΙΟϹ (\"son\"); a smaller circle hung from the larger one, with the words ΑΓΑΠΗ (\"love\"). A wall divides the realm of light from the middle realm. Two other concentric circles, one light and one dark, represent light and shadow. Hanging from this double circle was a circle with the inscription ΖΩΗ (\"life\"), and this enclosed two other circles which intersected each other and formed a rhomboid. In the common field were the words ΣΟΦΙΑϹ ΦΥϹΙϹ (\"the nature of wisdom\"), above ΓΝΩϹΙϹ (\"knowledge\"), and below ΣΟΦΙΑ (\"wisdom\"); in the rhomboid was ΣΟΦΙΑϹ ΠΡΟΝΟΙΑ (\"the providence of wisdom\"). There were altogether seven circles, with the names of seven archons:\n\n\nThe archons are perhaps identical with the seven generations of Yaldabaoth. They signify the corporeal world, which follows the middle realm, and with which the dominion of Sophia ends. The Sefirot of Jewish Kabbalah may be in some way connected with this diagram (Myer, pp. 311-13). But the serpent as symbol is found likewise in connection with the mysteries of Egypt, Greece, Phoenicia, Syria, and even Babylonia and India.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856016", "title": "Ophite", "text": "Ophite\n\nOphite or Ophitic may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856025", "title": "1973 Israeli raid on Lebanon", "text": "1973 Israeli raid on Lebanon\n\nThe 1973 Israeli raid on Lebanon (known as Operation Spring of Youth, Hebrew: מבצע אביב נעורים, \"Mitzva Aviv Ne'urim\") took place on the night of April 9 and early morning of April 10, 1973, when Israeli army special forces units attacked several Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) targets in Beirut and Sidon, Lebanon. The operation is generally considered to have been part of Operation Wrath of God, Israel's retaliation for the Munich massacre at the Summer Olympics in 1972.\n\nThe Israeli troops arrived at the Lebanese beaches on speedboats launched from missile boats offshore. Mossad agents awaited the forces on the beaches with cars rented the previous day, and then drove them to their targets and later back to the beaches for extraction.\n\nDuring the operation, three of the highest-level PLO leaders, surprised at home, were killed, along with other PLO members. Several Lebanese security people and civilian neighbors were also killed, as were two of the Israeli soldiers.\n\nIn February 1973, Ehud Barak, the then commander of the elite Sayeret Matkal unit, obtained photographs and precise information on the whereabouts of three senior PLO leaders: \n\nThe men lived in a pair of seven-story buildings in the fashionable neighborhood of Verdun in West Beirut. These buildings were residential housing for both British and Italian families along with Arab families. One building housed Al-Najjar, and a building across the street housed Adwan and Nasser.\n\nBarak and his team immediately began planning an operation to kill them. The final plan was to land operatives from navy ships on the Lebanese coast who would infiltrate into Lebanon disguised as tourists. Some of the commandos were to be disguised as women (Barak was disguised as a brunette woman). Before the mission, the forces trained using similar apartments in northern Tel Aviv. They also practiced cross-dressing and walking around disguised as lovers.\n\nOn April 9, 1973, Israeli Navy missile boats departed from Haifa naval base, carrying the commandos and Zodiac speedboats on board. When the missile boats reached the shores of Beirut, the Zodiacs were lowered into the water. To avoid being heard, they turned the motors off when they were a few hundred meters from land and rowed the rest of the way in. The commandos came ashore where Mossad agents were waiting for them with three cars. The agents drove them to their targets.\n\nThree Sayeret Matkal commando teams entered the buildings and planted explosive fuses at the apartment doors of their targets, while a backup team led by Barak remained outside and stood guard to repel PLO reinforcements or Lebanese Internal Security Forces (ISF) Gendarmerie units. When the fuses exploded, the commandos stormed the apartments, gunned down the three targets, and seized whatever documents they could find. Kamal Nasser, a Christian, was according to Palestinian reports, shot in front of his family, with his bullet wounds tracing the sign of the cross. Al-Najjar's wife was killed during the melee, as was an elderly Italian woman responding to the commotion. At the same time, the backup team engaged in a firefight with a few dozen Lebanese ISF gendarmes and PLO reinforcements. Two Lebanese policemen were killed. The responding forces were beaten back, and Mossad cars were used to extract the commandos. While driving to the beach, they encountered a Lebanese Army armoured personnel carrier (APC) as it scanned the shore. They were not confronted and continued on to the beach, where the commandos and drivers abandoned the cars and returned to the missile boats in Zodiacs.\n\nAt the same time, 14 Israeli commandos, mainly Sayeret Tzanhanim paratroopers, raided a multi-story building that housed militants of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). The team was disguised as civilians and led by Amnon Lipkin-Shahak. The Israeli team met strong resistance early on from nearly 100 militants guarding it, and engaged in a close-quarters battle. Teams of PFLP gunmen on the building's upper floors repeatedly attempted to take the elevator to the ground floor and join the battle, but each team was wiped out by commandos waiting near the doors. The team managed to place a large explosive charge inside the building and detonate it, causing part of the building to collapse. Lipkin-Shahak then requested an air evacuation. The commandos were extracted by Israeli Air Force helicopters. Two Israeli soldiers and dozens of PFLP fighters were killed during the fighting.\n\nTwo secondary forces attacked the Fatah headquarters for Gaza operations and a Fatah workshop in south Beirut. A third force of Shayetet 13 naval commandos landed in north Beirut and destroyed a small Fatah explosives workshop, while another paratroop unit raided and destroyed the PLO's main garage, located just south of Sidon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856026", "title": "Gore Creek", "text": "Gore Creek\n\nGore Creek may refer to the following watercourses:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856031", "title": "S9G reactor", "text": "S9G reactor\n\nThe S9G reactor is a naval reactor used by the United States Navy to provide electricity generation and propulsion on \"Virginia\" class submarines. The S9G designation stands for:\n\n\nThis pressurized water reactor (PWR) style nuclear reactor, designed by Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory (then managed by General Electric), is designed to have increased energy density, and new plant components, including a new steam generator design featuring improved corrosion resistance and reduced life-cycle costs. The steam generator will alleviate the corrosion concerns encountered in existing designs of steam generators, while reducing component size and weight and providing greater flexibility in overall arrangement. The reactor is designed to operate for 33 years without refueling.\n\nThe reactor is estimated to generate 210 megawatts (MWth) driving a 30 MW pump-jet propulsion system built by BAE Systems that was originally planned for the Royal Navy.\n"}
{"id": "1856033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856033", "title": "Yasuzo Masumura", "text": "Yasuzo Masumura\n\nMasumura was born in Kōfu, Yamanashi. After dropping out of a law course at the University of Tokyo he worked as an assistant director at the Daiei Film studio, later returning to university to study philosophy; he graduated in 1949. He then won a scholarship allowing him to study film in Italy at the Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia under Michelangelo Antonioni, Federico Fellini and Luchino Visconti.\n\nMasumura returned to Japan in 1953. From 1955, he worked as a second-unit director on films directed by Kenji Mizoguchi, Kon Ichikawa and Daisuke Ito, before directing his own first film, \"Kisses\", in 1957. Over the next three decades, he directed 58 films in a variety of genres.\n\nJapanese film critic Shigehiko Hasumi said, \"Young and influential filmmaker Shinji Aoyama declared that Masumura is the most important filmmaker in the history of postwar Japanese cinema.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856038", "title": "Michèle Alliot-Marie", "text": "Michèle Alliot-Marie\n\nMichèle Yvette Marie-Thérèse Jeanne Honorine Alliot-Marie (; born 10 September 1946), known in France as MAM, is a French politician and Member of the European Parliament (MEP) from France. She is a member of the Republicans, part of the European People's Party. A member of all right-wing governments formed in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, she was the first woman in France to hold the portfolios of Defense (2002–2007), the Interior (2007–2009) and Foreign Affairs (2010–2011); she has also been in charge of Youth and Sports (1993–1995) and Justice (2009–2010), and was granted the honorary rank of Minister of State in her last two offices.\n\nShe resigned from government in 2011 due to her position during the Tunisian Revolution; one year later, in the 2012 French legislative elections, she lost her seat as Deputy (MP) for the 6th Constituency of Pyrénées-Atlantiques. She became a member of the European Parliament in 2014. She remains Deputy Mayor of Saint-Jean-de-Luz as well as Vice President of the National Council of The Republicans.\n\nAlliot-Marie was the last President of the Rally for the Republic (1999–2002), an incarnation of the Gaullist party, and was the first woman to chair a major French political party. She has remained a leading Gaullist after the RPR merged into the UMP and was seen as a rival to Nicolas Sarkozy before and after his election as President in 2007, although direct confrontation was always avoided.\n\nAlliot-Marie is a law and political science scholar. Her companion is Patrick Ollier, Minister in charge of Relations with Parliament in the Fillon II government; both were ministers simultaneously for a few months in 2010-2011, the first time a couple ever sat in a French government.\n\nMichèle Marie was born on 10 September 1946 in Villeneuve-le-Roi (then in the Seine-et-Oise department, now in the Val-de-Marne department since 1968). Her father is Bernard Marie (1918-2015), who was a famous international rugby referee, the French National Assembly Deputy for the Pyrénées-Atlantiques' 4th constituency (1967-1981, department named Basses-Pyrénées until 1969), and the Mayor of Biarritz (1977-1991); and her mother is Renée Leyko and is of Polish descent.\n\nShe attended the High School of the Folie Saint James in Neuilly-sur-Seine and then began her studies at the Paris Law Faculty in the now-defunct University of Paris, continuing at the in that same university. After then-Education Minister Edgar Faure's university reforms (known as \"\") were implemented in 1968, she continued her studies in private law, political science, and legal history at both Panthéon-Assas University, earning a Doctor of Law degree there in 1973 with her thesis \"Salarié actionnaire\" (English: \"Employee Shareholders\"), and Pantheon-Sorbonne University, where she earned a Doctorate in Political Science in 1982 and defended her thesis \"Décisions politiques et structures administratives\" (English: \"Political Decisions and Administrative Structures\"). During her university years, she was a member of the right-wing student union \"UNI\"\n\nShe also holds a \"Certificat d'aptitude à la profession d'avocat\" (English: \"Certificate of Aptitude for Practicing Law\"), also known as a CAPA; a certificate in African laws and economics; and a master's degree in ethnology. Before her career in politics, she was a senior lecturer at the Paris-I University (Panthéon-Sorbonne), and also spent some time practicing law. She is also a recipient of the Faculty of Law and Economics.\n\nDuring her university studies, Alliot-Marie (then still known as Michèle Marie) began having a relationship with her then-law professor , who was also chief of staff to then-Education Minister (1968-1969) Edgar Faure. Marie and Alliot married in 1971, thus gaining her frequent access to academic and corporate environments; this also led to a name change from Michèle Marie to her name since then, Michèle Alliot-Marie.\n\nShe was first assistant at Panthéon-Assas University and then the University Paris I Panthéon-Sorbonne between 1970 and 1984, before becoming a \"Maître de conférences\" (equal to an Associate Professor) in public law from 1984, a position she left when she got elected to the French National Assembly in 1986.\n\nIn 1972, she became a technical adviser to Edgar Faure, who was by then the Minister of Social Affairs until 1976; and then she was a technical adviser to then-Secretary of State for Universities Jean-Pierre Soisson. She then became an adviser to then-Minister of Departments and Overseas Territories Bernard Stasi from 1973 to 1974, and then to then-Secretary of State for Tourism in 1974. She then became the Chief of Staff to then-Secretary of State and Minister of Universities from 1976 to 1978 before working in the private sector as an administrator of CEO of the company \"Uta-Indemnité\" between 1979 and 1985. She also practiced as a lawyer during this time.\n\nAlliot-Marie started her electoral career in 1983 as Municipal Councillor for the Basque-area village of Ciboure (in the former province of Labourd and now in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques department), located south of her father's political base of Biarritz, near Saint-Jean-de-Luz; she stayed on until 1988. In 1989, she was elected to another council, this time in Biarritz, alongside her father. In 1990, as part of the municipal majority behind the first Deputy Mayor Didier Borotra of the UDF-CDS, she passed draft legislation in opposition to build a hotel-casino on the front of the main beach of the town, which caused a collapse of the council. Early municipal elections in 1991 were won by Didier Borotra, who united the local UDF, two elected Socialists, and Basque nationalists, who provided additional support. She left the council at the same time that her father was defeated as Mayor. She then served as Mayor of Saint-Jean-de-Luz from 1995 until 2002, and as First Deputy Mayor since then. She was also a member and a Vice President of the General Council of Pyrénées-Atlantiques between 1994 and 2001.\n\nAlliot-Marie was elected to the National Assembly to represent Pyrénées-Atlantiques in 1986 as a member of the Gaullist Rally for the Republic (RPR). She has been seating in the Assembly ever since, except when she sat in the government; this is due to the French law on \"Cumul des mandats\" (literally: \"accumulation of mandates\") that prohibit cabinet ministers from simultaneously serving as deputies in the French National Assembly; her alternate as Deputy was Daniel Poulou, who served from 1993 to 1995 and again from 2002 to 2011 when she served as Cabinet Minister.\n\nShe served as Secretary of State (junior minister) for Schools under the Minister of National Education in Jacques Chirac's second government from 1986 to 1988 and as Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports in Édouard Balladur's government from 1993 to 1995.\n\nFrom 1989 to 1993, she was a Member of the European Parliament as a member of the political group European Democratic Alliance.\n\nIn 1999, \"MAM\" entered the challenge for the presidency of the RPR against Chirac's candidate and, to most insiders' surprise, won by a landslide, becoming the first woman to lead a major French political party. She remained President of the party until 2002 when it merged with the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP), a merger she opposed at first.\n\nAlliot-Marie was Minister of Defense during Jacques Chirac’s second presidential term, France's first woman in this position. Between May and June 2002, she was also in charge of Veterans’ Affairs. \"Forbes\" magazine declared her the 57th most powerful woman in the world in 2006 and the 11th in 2007. She kept the Defense portfolio in Jean-Pierre Raffarin's three governments and in Dominique de Villepin's government.\n\nShe remained a leading Gaullist after the RPR merger into the UMP, and created her own movement within the party, Le Chêne (The Oak). Although she publicly considered competing with Nicolas Sarkozy for the UMP nomination in the 2007 presidential election, she ruled herself out of the running in January 2007 and endorsed Sarkozy. Sarkozy and Alliot-Marie had a history of disagreements in the party’s National Council.\n\nAfter Sarkozy’s election as President, Alliot-Marie was appointed Minister of the Interior, the Overseas and Local Communities in François Fillon's government, being the first woman to hold the position.\n\nTwo years later, after the 2009 European Parliament election, she was appointed Minister of Justice and Liberties and Keeper of the Seals and was bestowed the title of Minister of State, which gave her the most senior rank in the government after the Prime Minister. She was made a Vice President of the UMP the same year.\n\nIn November 2010, Alliot-Marie was appointed Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, remaining Minister of State and being again the first female holder of the office.\n\nWhen civil unrest began in Tunisia in early 2011, Alliot-Marie came under scrutiny for going on vacation there during the events, as she had frequently done in the past. She further caused controversy when she told the National Assembly that French riot police could be offered to help restore order; she was specifically criticised for allegedly sending teargas to Tunisia as late as January 2011. Before leaving office, she proposed sending paratroopers to quell the protests.\n\nHer situation embarrassing the government, she resigned as Foreign Minister on 27 February 2011 after only a few months in office. She was succeeded by outgoing Defense Minister and former Prime Minister Alain Juppé.\n\nIn the 2012 French legislative elections, she lost her seat as Deputy (MP) for the 6th constituency of Pyrénées-Atlantiques to Socialist Party candidate in the second round, 48.38% to Alaux’s 51.62% share of the vote.\n\nIn 2016, the French investigating judge Sabine Kheris requested that the case be referred to the Court of Justice of the Republic Dominique de Villepin, Michel Barnier and Michèle Alliot-Marie. These former ministers are suspected of having allowed the exfiltration of the mercenaries responsible for the attack on the Bouaké camp in 2004, killing nine French soldiers. The operation was allegedly intended to justify a response operation against the Laurent Gbagbo government in the context of the 2004 crisis in Ivory Coast.\n\nMinisterial offices\n\n\nElectoral mandates\n\nEuropean parliament\n\n\nNational Assembly\n\n\nGeneral Council\n\n\nMunicipal Council\n\n\nParty political offices\n\n\nMichèle Marie married anthropologist in 1971, taking the name Michèle Alliot-Marie. They divorced in 1984.\n\nIn the French media, she is nicknamed \"MAM\".\n\nSince 1988, her life partner has been Patrick Ollier, who briefly served as President of the National Assembly in 2007 and subsequently chaired the Assembly’s Economy Committee. In November 2010, he was appointed Minister in charge of Relations with Parliament in the Fillon II government. Both were ministers simultaneously for a few months in 2010-2011, the first time a couple ever sat in a French government. Due to her higher public profile, he has been nicknamed \"Patrick Ollier-Marie\" or \"POM\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856039", "title": "Kudsi Erguner", "text": "Kudsi Erguner\n\nKudsi Ergüner (born 4 February 1952 in Diyarbakır, Turkey) is a Turkish musician. He is considered a master of traditional Mevlevi Sufi music and is one of the best-known players of the Turkish ney flute.\n\nAs a boy, Erguner studied with his father Ulvi Erguner and attended the Sema of the Mevlevi-Sufi tradition along with other Dervish ceremonies. He started his musical career in Istanbul Radio in 1969. For several decades, he has researched the earliest roots of Ottoman music which he has also taught, performed and recorded.\n\nIn the seventies Erguner moved to Paris where, at the beginning of the eighties, he founded the Mevlana Institute devoted to the study and teaching of classical Sufi music. Together with the Kudsi Erguner Ensemble he developed deep insights into the diversity of his culture: the group conveys both authentic, often improvised forms of expression of classical Ottoman performance culture as well as a comprehensive repertoire of modern and classical pieces that can be traced back to the 13th century.\n\nHe took part in Peter Brook's movie \"Meetings with Remarkable Men\" in 1978.\n\nIn addition to his own recordings, Erguner has performed with Peter Gabriel (\"The Last Temptation of Christ\" soundtrack), William Orbit's band Bassomatic (\"Set the Controls for the Heart of the Bass\"), Jean Michel Jarre, Maurice Béjart, Peter Brook, George Aperghis, Didier Lockwood, Italian singer-songwriter Alice and Michel Portal.\n\nWith Anouar Brahem\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856040", "title": "Buxton, Norfolk", "text": "Buxton, Norfolk\n\nBuxton is a village in Norfolk, located between Norwich and Aylsham. The village is mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1085. Buxton is adjacent to the village of Lamas. The two villages are separated by the River Bure at Buxton Mill but are otherwise indistinguishable. Together they form the civil parish of Buxton with Lamas.\n\nBuxton's was the home village of Anna Sewell, author of \"Black Beauty\"; she is buried at the former Quaker Meeting-House in the village of Lamas, just over the river, and is more properly associated with the village of Old Catton, a suburb of Norwich.\n\nThe Sewell family, and their predecessors, the Wrights, dwelt at Dudwick Park, a mansion in a private park on one side of the village. This was bought by John Wright (1728-1798), a wealthy Quaker banker. His endowments founded the present school, as well as the Red House, an institution for young offenders which stood where the Rowan House complex stands. These were erected by his grandson and heir, the second John Wright (1794-1871). He married a member of the Harford family, also Quakers, but died without issue, the property passing in 1856 to his sister's eldest son, Phillip Sewell, another Quaker banker. Phillip Sewell, the brother of Anna Sewell, was a major local benefactor, and enlarged the local school, a fact recorded on a memorial plaque on the old buildings. The Sewells, like many Quaker landlords, were philanthropists, and gave the village a Reading Room, as well as supporting a school and reformatory. Their last gift to the community was the Village Hall, built 1927 and since extended. The Sewell connection ended in 1937, when P. E. Sewell, a Ceylon Tea-planter, died, leaving Dudwick Park to Percy Briscoe, a friend from Ceylon. The house was rebuilt in the early part of the twentieth century, and, externally, no trace remains of the house which Anna Sewell would have known.\n\nThe builder Thomas Cubitt was born here in 1788. Roads in the newer estates in Buxton record the association of the Stracey and Sewell families with Buxton.\n\nThe Rev. William Stracey, Vicar, rebuilt the church, lowering the tower and using the flints left over to build Tower House, a pleasing Victorian cottage. His vicarage, a large house later called Levishaw Manor was pulled down to make way for a housing estate, but bridges and some of the associated buildings survive. His personal prayer-book is in the village archives. The Modern vicarage, dating from the 1950s, is a large, red-brick structure. The church, dedicated to St. Andrew, is largely the product of William Stracey's rebuilding, although some medieval stonework survives. A previous incumbent was ejected for nonconformity in 1662, and was probably a Presbyterian, since he is not mentioned as among the Congregationalists in the list to be found in R. Tudur Jones's \"History of Congregationalism\".\n\nAlthough the Parish Church is the only place of worship in Buxton today, at one time the village possessed a Methodist preaching-room, and an important Baptist Chapel. The latter was located on the outskirts of the village, and was demolished in 1931. The schoolroom (now a house) and the stables (largely rebuilt) survive. The arrangement, located in a detached portion of the village, is similar to that at nearby Worstead, where the Baptist Chapel is also located in its own burial ground.\n\nThe parish built its own House of Industry in the 18th century, in order to house and provide work for the poor of the village. In the 1830s, this became a Workhouse, covered by the provisions of the New Poor Law, attached to the Aylsham Union. The foundations of some of the buildings survive in a wood on the Buxton-Horstead Road (map dated 1906, Norfolk Record Office). The village had two schools, the one founded by the second John Wright in 1833 (the endowment of 1798 was left by the first John Wright), next to the church, and a 'National' (Anglican) school, located in Back Lane, close to the modern vicarage. This is another legacy of the work of improvement done during the incumbency of the Rev. W. Stracey, in 1855. These schools were united into a single school in 1882, although the two buildings were kept open, with the National school building initially housing the Infants' department. On the transfer of the infants' department to the buildings next to the church in 1922, the National School was used for technical instruction, functions later transferred to the old station, although this, too, is now a private house.\n\nA mixture of historic 17th- and 18th-century houses with new housing estates, Buxton shows some signs of having been a more important centre in its earlier years. Today, it serves mainly as a dormitory for the city of Norwich.\n\nBuxton Watermill, in the lower end of town, is recorded in Domesday in 1085. William Pepper, a merchant living in Buxton, last rebuilt it as a mill in 1754. The building was constructed of white painted brick and weatherboard with a pantile roof and has been a prominent landmark in the village for many years. The mill was reconstructed after a devastating fire in 1991 and is now 9 luxury apartments.\n\nThe former Great Eastern Railway passed through and had a railway station called Buxton Lamas prior to closure of the line. The Bure Valley Railway, operating from Wroxham to Aylsham, now has a halt called Buxton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856041", "title": "West Texas Rednecks", "text": "West Texas Rednecks\n\nThe West Texas Rednecks were a short-lived professional wrestling stable and country music band in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1999. They are famous for the recording of two songs, \"Rap is Crap (I Hate Rap)\" and \"Good Ol' Boys.\"\n\nThe West Texas Rednecks formed in June 1999 in WCW. The group developed from four wrestlers who fit the mold of a southern gimmick and had teamed with one another in the recent months. They were to be a heel group to feud with The No Limit Soldiers led by Master P. Although the Soldiers were packaged as a face stable, they failed to connect with the audience due to actions perceived as that of heels. In Master P's first and only appearance on WCW Television, (against the suggestion of the bookers and other wrestlers) he bullied Curt Hennig by rejecting a present he gave to Silkk The Shocker (a custom made cowboy hat) and then assaulting him with a birthday cake. Although Hennig was a heel at the time, these actions made the No Limit Soldiers come across to the audience as heels themselves. Not helping the situation was that, even with backup, the Soldiers had more than twice as many members as Hennig's group. The feud was quickly dropped and the Rednecks were given other face groups to quarrel with instead. They lasted until late October 1999.\n\nThe West Texas Rednecks were made up of leader Curt Hennig, brothers Barry and Kendall Windham, and Bobby Duncum, Jr.. Although Hennig was actually from Minnesota, he was billed as being from Texas (the other members of the group were all natives of Texas). They filmed several vignettes with them riding four-wheelers and recorded a country song called \"Rap is Crap (I Hate Rap)\", which received some airplay in the south and on WCW television. In the song, the group express their love of country music and southern culture, while also expressing their dislike of hip hop music. \"Rap is Crap (I Hate Rap)\" was written by Jimmy Hart and Howard Helm, and was released on the album \"\". The group's original theme song, \"Good Ol' Boys\", was based on Jeff Jarrett's theme song in the mid-1990s. The West Texas Rednecks' version changes the lyric \"wrestling every week on TV\" to watching \"the Grand Ole Opry every week on TV\". \n\nWhile part of the West Texas Rednecks, the Windham brothers won the WCW World Tag Team Championship. Late in the group's run, they were joined by Curly Bill, who wore a particularly humorous cowboy outfit.\n\nThe group's main feuds were with Master P's No Limit Soldiers (Swoll, 4X4, Chase and BA), Four Horsemen members Chris Benoit and Dean Malenko (in the storyline, leftover hatred from when Hennig had betrayed the Horsemen to side with the nWo), Harlem Heat (Booker T and Stevie Ray), and The Filthy Animals (Konnan, Billy Kidman, Rey Misterio Jr., and Eddie Guerrero).\n\nThe group was originally called The West Texas Outlaws, with \"West Texas Rednecks\" intended as an insult. The popularity of the name West Texas Rednecks, however, combined with the commentators almost never using the stable's original name, resulted in the group's name being changed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856045", "title": "Paul Gigot", "text": "Paul Gigot\n\nPaul Anthony Gigot (; born May 24, 1955) is an American Pulitzer Prize winning conservative political commentator and editor of the editorial pages for \"The Wall Street Journal\". He is also the moderator of the public affairs television series \"Journal Editorial Report\", a program reflecting the \"Journal\"s editorial views which airs on Fox News Channel.\n\nPaul Gigot was born in San Antonio, Texas, and he and his family moved to Green Bay, Wisconsin not long afterward. He is Roman Catholic and attended Catholic schools for 12 years. He graduated from Abbot Pennings High School in De Pere, Wisconsin in 1973.\n\nHe graduated \"summa cum laude\" from Dartmouth College in 1977, where he wrote for and later edited \"The Dartmouth\".\n\nPrior to becoming an editor at \"The Wall Street Journal\", Gigot spent 14 years writing the column \"Potomac Watch\". His career at the \"Journal\" began in 1980, when he became a reporter covering Chicago, Illinois. Two years later he became the paper's Asia correspondent in Hong Kong. While in Hong Kong in 1984, Gigot was placed in charge of \"The Wall Street Journal Asia\".\n\nFrom 1986 to 1987, Gigot served as a White House Fellow under President Ronald Reagan.\n\nDuring the 1990s, he was a regular guest on \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\", appearing in the program's weekly political analysis segment, opposite Mark Shields, the regular liberal pundit.\n\nIn 2000, Gigot won a Pulitzer Prize for his weekly \"Potomac Watch\" column in \"The Wall Street Journal\", and became the \"Journal\"s editorial-page editor in 2001.\n\nPaul Gigot has been described as leading a 'fatwa' against the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, via the editorial pages of \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nIn 2017, Gigot was alleged to have forced out junior colleague Mark Lasswell from \"The Wall Street Journal\" the previous summer, after Lasswell continued to publish op-eds critical of Donald Trump. Gigot refused to comment on the personnel change.\n\nUnder Gigot's tenure as editorial page editor and vice president, \"The Wall Street Journal's\" editorial page has been criticised by three left-leaning media for its pro-Trump stance.\n\nGigot hosts the weekly cable show \"Journal Editorial Report\" on Fox News Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856052", "title": "Swiss football league system", "text": "Swiss football league system\n\nThe Swiss football league system, is a series of interconnected leagues for association football clubs in Switzerland, with seven teams from Liechtenstein, and one each from exclaves of Germany and Italy, also competing. The system has a hierarchical format with promotion and relegation between leagues at different levels, allowing even the smallest club the possibility of ultimately rising to the very top of the system. The first two levels of the system are collectively called Swiss Football League.\n\nBecause Liechtenstein does not have its own national league, its teams play in the Swiss leagues; see List of association football clubs playing in the league of another country.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856059", "title": "Gore Creek (Colorado)", "text": "Gore Creek (Colorado)\n\nGore Creek is a tributary of the Eagle River, approximately long, in Eagle County in central Colorado in the United States. It drains an area of the Rocky Mountains at the south end of the Gore Range through Gore Valley. It rises on the Eagle County-Summit County border along the high crest of the Gore Range, in the White River National Forest, approximately north of Vail Pass, descending to the west through a narrow gorge, receiving Black Gore Creek from the south. Downstream of this confluence, it runs alongside the route of U.S. Highway 6 (built in 1940) and Interstate 70. It flows through Vail and joins the Eagle River from the east, approximately west of Vail.\n\nWhile the downstream portions of Gore Creek remain a Gold Medal Brown Trout fishery, the health of aquatic life in the creek has come into question. Due to low counts of aquatic macroinvertebrates, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment placed Gore Creek on a state list of impaired waterways in 2011. This raised the alarm in communities along the creek and a team of organizations including the Eagle River Watershed Council, Eagle River Water and Sanitation District and the Town of Vail have come together to Restore the Gore!\n\nThese organizations are calling on citizens and visitors of the Gore Creek Watershed not to pour pollutants down storm sewers, to replace lawns and pavement with native plants and to follow all manufacturer-recommended guidelines when applying fertilizers or pesticides, especially on windy days or when rain is in the forecast. Efforts like these can go along way toward keeping harmful pollutants out of the creek and helping revive important aquatic insect populations that trout and other wildlife depend on.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856064", "title": "Playhouse Disney", "text": "Playhouse Disney\n\nPlayhouse Disney is a former brand for a slate of programming blocks and international cable and satellite television channel that was owned by the Disney Channels Worldwide unit of The Walt Disney Company's Disney–ABC Television Group. It originated in the United States as a morning program block on the Disney Channel. Its programming was targeted at children ages 2–6, featuring a mix of live-action and animated series.\n\nThe Playhouse Disney block on Disney Channel was rebranded as the Disney Junior block on Disney Channel on February 14, 2011. The 22 cable channels and blocks using the Playhouse Disney brand around the world were relaunched under the Disney Junior brand over the next two years, concluding with the rebranding of the Russian channel in November 2012.\n\nPrior to Playhouse Disney's launch, Disney Channel had aired a lineup of preschool-targeted programs (which were mixed alongside animated series aimed at older children) during the morning hours since its debut in April 1983. On April 6, 1997, Disney Channel underwent a relaunch that signified the beginning of its full conversion into a commercial-free basic cable channel, and its morning program block now utilized a similar graphics package for its promotions as that used for the channel's afternoon children's programs. After Disney Channel's preschool block premiered three new original series in 1998 (\"PB&J Otter\", \"Rolie Polie Olie\", and \"Out of the Box\"), the block rebranded as Playhouse Disney on February 1, 1999.\n\nOne of the Playhouse Disney block's most popular series was \"Bear in the Big Blue House\", an educational live-action series from Jim Henson Productions that debuted in October 1997, focusing on the adventures of Bear (voice by Noel MacNeal); the series was named by \"TV Guide\" as one of the \"top 10 new shows for kids\" that year. For the first three years of its run, the Playhouse Disney block originally aired each weekday from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time, and weekends from 6:00 to 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Following each program, which usually ran 23 minutes (most of which, with the exception of movies, aired without promotional interruption), the remainder of the time period was filled by either short segments and music videos (the latter of which were originally aired under the banner \"Feet Beat\") or an episode of an acquired short series.\n\nOn April 16, 2001, Playhouse Disney introduced a new on-air graphics package produced by motion graphics company Beehive; actress Allyce Beasley began serving as the U.S. block's promo announcer at this time, a capacity she would hold until March 30, 2007. Radio Disney cross-promoted the block by rebranding its \"Mickey and Minnie's Tune Time\" block as \"Playhouse Disney\", and in 2002, the TV block's \"Feet Beat\" interstitials were renamed \"B.B.'s Music Time\" to promote the Radio Disney block. On June 25, 2001, Disney-ABC Cable Networks Group (now Disney-ABC Television Group) announced plans to launch Playhouse Disney Channel, a companion digital cable and satellite channel that would have served the same target audience as the Disney Channel block; plans for the network were later scrapped, although Disney-ABC International Television would launch dedicated Playhouse Disney Channels in international markets (including Canada and Latin America) between 2002 and 2007. The Walt Disney Company acquired the broadcast rights to \"The Wiggles\" as part of their purchase of the Fox Family Channel in 2001; \"The Wiggles\" moved to Playhouse Disney in June 2002 and became one of the block's most watched shows during its run.\n\nLike Disney Channel, Playhouse Disney was a commercial-free service, but it did show short \"promotional spots\" (structured as short-form segments for Disney products targeted at the block's demographics) along with – beginning in 2002 – underwriter sponsorships (with companies such as McDonald's) within breaks between programs (preschool-targeted programs that aired between 3:00 and 7:00 a.m. Central Time outside of the Playhouse Disney banner, included the promotional shorts for Disney entertainment products that were seen during Disney Channel's afternoon and nighttime schedule). On October 7, 2002, Playhouse Disney changed its logo to reflect Disney Channel's on-air rebranding. As part of the block's effort to phase out its older interstitial material, it introduced a mascot in September named Clay (voiced by Debi Derryberry), an anthropomorphic clay figure who often used the catchphrases \"It's true!\" and \"Are you with me?\".\n\nOn March 31, 2007, Clay was replaced by two anthropomorphic monkey puppets as the block's hosts, Ooh and Aah (who served as the main characters for one of the short series featured on the Playhouse Disney lineup, \"Ooh, Aah & You\"). Beginning in 2007, Disney Channel began truncating the weekday block to four hours (from 5:00 to 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time) during the summer months, in order to air episodes of Disney Channel original series during the late morning and early afternoon hours; however, the weekend schedule continued to air as a seven-hour block. By this point, the Playhouse Disney block had expanded to air from 4:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Eastern Time on weekdays, and 4:00 to 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time on weekends, each running a different schedule.\n\nOn May 26, 2010, Disney-ABC Television Group announced the launch of Disney Junior, a relaunching of Playhouse Disney that would serve as the brand for the Disney Channel block and a new standalone digital cable and satellite channel in the United States, as well as the new brand for the 22 existing Playhouse Disney-branded cable channels and program blocks worldwide. The Playhouse Disney block ended its 14-year run on February 13, 2011, with the last program to air being an episode of the short series \"Handy Manny's School for Tools\" at 1:55 p.m. Eastern Time.\n\nThe Disney Junior block debuted on February 14, 2011, with \"Little Einsteins\" as its first program. Several former Playhouse Disney series were carried over to the relaunched block including \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\", \"Special Agent Oso\", \"Imagination Movers\", \"Handy Manny\", and \"Little Einsteins\". With the relaunch of the block, the block's mascots Ooh and Aah were retired and several of its older programs were entirely discontinued (however, \"Ooh and Aah & You\" was later carried on the Disney Junior cable channel).\n\nThe 24-hour cable channel debuted on March 23, 2012 with the \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\" episode \"Mickey's Big Surprise\" as its first program, mainly featuring a mix of original series and programs held over from the Playhouse Disney library (which largely aired as part of the channel's overnight schedule until mid-2014). Disney Junior took over the channel space held by the Disney-owned soap opera-focused channel Soapnet, largely due to that channel's existing subscriber reach (being carried in 75 million households with pay television). An automated Soapnet feed remained in operation for providers that did not yet reach agreements to carry the Disney Junior channel or providers that were required to continue carrying Soapnet in addition to Disney Junior until Soapnet fully ceased operations on December 31, 2013.\n\n\"The list below pertains to programs aired on the U.S. block on Disney Channel.\"\n\n\n\nOn September 29, 2000, Disney Television International launched the first international Playhouse Disney Channel in the United Kingdom. It broadcast for 15 hours a day, alongside Toon Disney and Disney Channel +1 on the Sky Digital platform. On April 4, 2009, Egmont Group launched a companion \"Playhouse Disney\" magazine in the United Kingdom that focused on the channel's four most popular shows: \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\", \"My Friends Tigger & Pooh\", \"Handy Manny\" and \"Little Einsteins\". Each issue included \"to do\" pages and suggested activities for parents and children based on an educational theme. The channel was replaced by Disney Junior on May 7, 2011.\n\nOn November 30, 2007, Astral Media launched a Canadian version of Playhouse Disney Channel under a brand licensing agreement with Disney-ABC Television Group; the channel operated as a multiplex channel of Family Channel, which had long maintained a programming distribution agreement with Disney Channel for the domestic rights to the U.S. channel's series until January 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856072", "title": "IFR (disambiguation)", "text": "IFR (disambiguation)\n\nIFR is instrument flight rules, rules for when flight by outside visual reference is not safe.\n\nIFR may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1856076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856076", "title": "Matthew 1:17", "text": "Matthew 1:17\n\nMatthew 1:17 is the seventeenth verse of the first chapter in the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse is the conclusion to the section where the genealogy of Joseph, the step-father of Jesus, is listed.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 1:17.\n\nThe numbers may be linked to , which states that seventy weeks of years, or 490 years, would pass between the restoration of Jerusalem and the coming of the messiah. Since generations were commonly placed at 35 years, this means exactly 14 generations. W. D. Davies and Dale Allison also note that this might be linked to the lunar calendar. The lunar month is 28 days, 14 days of waxing and 14 days of waning. Thus the first grouping could be the initial waxing to David, the next fourteen the waning to the Babylonian captivity and the last period the waxing towards Jesus.\n\nThe number 14 is itself important. It is twice 7, which was considered a holy number. David's name, when turned into numbers, adds up to fourteen. 3 groups of 14 is the same of 6 groups of 7. W. D. Davies and Dale Allison mention a theory that the first six periods reflect the first six days of the week; with Jesus begins the seventh day, that of the eternal Sabbath. Matthew's enumeration may be an average estimate of the periodical generations in Israel's history, but probably to imply that Israel was due for the coming of its Messiah with the birth of Jesus, just as in the case with the new Elijah in .\n\nSome interpretations focus on the symbolism of the number fourteen without accounting for the aspect of three. \n\nThe three series of fourteens divide the generations into three distinct periods, by beginning and ending four significant points of time (Abraham; King David; Babylonian Exile; Messiah) thereby noting three beginning points and three end points (the middle two points, by overlapping periods, function doubly as end points and beginning points).\n\nThe aspect of three (either three groups or three beginning points and three end points) may be meant to be as significant as the number fourteen.\n\nMore than fifteen interpretations of the genealogical summary have been suggested throughout the history of interpretation.\n\nHowever, there are some complications with this passage. There are only 41 names listed, one would expect 14 x 3 or 42. This leaves one of the divisions a member short.\n\n\nA number of explanations have been advanced to explain this. Other than the straightforward reason of simple miscounting, the significant view, first advocated by Krister Stendahl, which would preserve the inerrancy of the Bible, is that David's name should appear twice just as it is mentioned twice in the verse. By this count he is both one of the fourteen from \"Abraham to David\" and also one of the fourteen from \"David to the exile to Babylon.\" The main problem with this is that it would also suggest that since the exile to Babylon is mentioned twice the man at this time, Jeconiah, should also appear twice. Other theories that have been advanced include that Mary counts as one of the 14 or that Jeconiah legally counts as two separate people, one as king the other as dethroned civilian.\n\nAn explanation that scholars today find more probable is that the problem lies in . Almost all other sources report that a king named Jehoiakim was between Josiah and Jeconiah. Many scholars feel it is likely that Jeconiah, whose name can be spelt Jehoiachin, was confused with his father and they were merged into one person. Thus the error was one by a later transcriber.\n\nHowever there are several other people who were left out of the genealogy. skips over Ahaziah, Athaliah, Jehoash, and Amaziah, two of whom were kings of Judah and all are well documented by other sources. \"Begat\" can also mean \"grandfather of\" and skipping unimportant generations is not uncommon in ancient genealogies. See for a full discussion on why these four may have been left out. It is, however, somewhat duplicitous to claim that there were fourteen generations when in fact there were eighteen. Fowler argues that this verse is not in error, as it is not a description of the actual genealogy, but simply of the list that was presented in the Gospel. Fowler believes that the author of Matthew had good reason to drop the names he did and to skip unnecessary ancestors. Fowler sees instructions in this verse are to aid in the memorization of Matthew's version of the genealogy, not the historical list of decedents. By tradition the first period from Abraham to David always had fourteen names, so the author of Matthew simply cut unneeded names from the other two sections to create an easily memorized triple structure.\n\nA transcriber skipping similar names in a list is a common error known as homoioteleuton. One theory is that the original author of Matthew probably had the list correct, and that a later scribe erased the four. This implies that this verse must be a later addition to text, as the 14/14/14 structure only came into being after that error was made.\n\nAn added problem is that, even with several extra names added, there are far too few names for the many centuries this genealogy is meant to cover, as Matthew focuses mainly on Jesus's royalty lineage, not the biological line (which is possibly used in Luke 3) which he did not have access to.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856080", "title": "Central Kilimanjaro language", "text": "Central Kilimanjaro language\n\nCentral Kilimanjaro, or Central Chaga, is a Bantu language of Tanzania spoken by the Chaga people.\n\nThere are several dialects:\n\nMoshi is the language of the Chaga cultural capital, Moshi, and the prestige dialect of the Chaga languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856081", "title": "Dotsero, Colorado", "text": "Dotsero, Colorado\n\nDotsero is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in western Eagle County, Colorado, in the United States. The population as of the 2010 Census was 705. The town originated as a railroad junction and is located at the confluence of the Eagle River with the Colorado River, along U.S. Highway 6 and Interstate 70, near the head of Glenwood Canyon, approximately west of Gypsum. The town consists mostly of a cluster of houses and trailers on both sides of the Eagle River.\n\nDotsero was an important railroad junction point for the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad's Denver to Salt Lake City line. Originally the line passed through Dotsero following the Eagle River towards Tennessee Pass and through the Royal Gorge of the Arkansas River en route to Pueblo, Colorado before turning north towards Denver. Through the years, efforts were made to have a more direct connection between Denver and Salt Lake that did not require detouring through Pueblo. The Denver and Salt Lake Railroad (D&SL) built a line west from Denver and entered the Colorado River canyon near Bond, Colorado, about Northeast of Dotsero. The D&SL was never finished as a separate route to Salt Lake City; however, was eventually acquired by the D&RGW, who built a connection between Dotsero and Orestod (Dotsero spelled backwards) near Bond. This connection, commonly known as the Dotsero Cutoff, was completed on June 15, 1934 and finally provided Denver with a direct link to Salt Lake City, making Dotsero the junction between the old and new routes to Denver. After completion the old route over Tennessee pass remained in use as a secondary route, but has been dormant since 1997.\nFerdinand Hayden published an extensive survey of central and southwest Colorado in 1877, and used the location of the town of Dotsero as his \"Dot Zero\" (reference point) for his survey maps. The station name exists from the construction of the standard gauge railroad line to Glenwood Springs in the 1890s.\n\nDotsero is built at the base of Colorado's most recently active volcano, the Dotsero Crater, which, according to the United States Geological Survey, erupted 4,140 years ago.\n\nThe main industry at Dotsero for years consisted of making cinderblocks from the volcano.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856094", "title": "Andrea Fortunato", "text": "Andrea Fortunato\n\nAndrea Fortunato (; 26 July 1971 – 25 April 1995) was an Italian football player who played as a left-back. Fortunato was one of Italy’s most promising prospects in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and he enjoyed a successful yet very short spell in Italian football, before contracting leukemia; he died in April 1995. Throughout his club career, he played for Como, Pisa, Genoa, and Juventus, while at international level he represented the Italian national team on one occasion, in 1993.\n\nAndrea Fortunato was born into a middle-class family in Salerno; his father, Giuseppe, was a cardiologist, while his mother, Lucia, was a librarian; he also had a brother and a sister. As a youngster, Andrea also swam and played water polo, in addition to football. He began playing football with the Como youth side at the age of 13, although his parents also insisted that he complete his high school diploma in accounting, in case his footballing career turned to be unsuccessful.\n\nFortunato started his professional career as a left-back with the Como first team in 1988, at the age of 17, making his Serie B debut with the club on 29 October 1989, in a 1–0 home win against Cosenza. The young player from Salerno played 16 times with the \"Lariani\" in his first season, who were relegated to Serie C1. He soon established himself into the team's starting line-up the following season, making 27 appearances in the league, as Como narrowly missed out on promotion to Serie B, losing out in the playoff to Venezia. Fortunato's consistent performances caught the eye of bigger Italian clubs – most notably Genoa. It was the Ligurian side who signed Fortunato in 1991; however, his limited opportunities with the club, due to the presence of the more experienced Branco in his role, led to an argument with Osvaldo Bagnoli's assistant manager Sergio Maddè. As a result, Fortunato was labelled as an \"arrogant hothead\", and was immediately loaned out to Serie B side Pisa for the 1991–92 season, where he made 25 appearances.\n\nAfter an impressive spell with Pisa, Fortunato returned to the \"Grifoni\", where he made his Serie A debut on 6 September 1992, in a 1–1 away draw against Fiorentina. He teamed up with right-back Christian Panucci, another promising Italian full-back, and together they formed a formidable defensive young partnership. In his first year in the Italian top flight, Fortunato made 33 appearances and scored 3 goals, including the equaliser in a 2–2 home draw against eventual champions Milan, which helped Genoa avoid relegation. \n\nFortunato's performances with Genoa during the 1992–93 season caught the attention of Juventus boss Giovanni Trapattoni, who brought the promising youngster to the Turin club the following season for 12 billion Lire. The left-back was an instant hit, and was awarded the number 3 shirt, which had belonged to former Juventus full-back Antonio Cabrini during the 1980s.\n\nFortunato started his first season with Juventus strongly, and soon became known for his endless running along the flank and his fine left foot, which he would use to provide accurate crosses for the likes of forwards Roberto Baggio, Fabrizio Ravanelli, and Gianluca Vialli. His most important attribute was that he loved being a team player, both on and off the pitch. His charm and great personality won the hearts of many, so much so that former Italy coach Arrigo Sacchi described him as “a revelation of Italian football”, and called the Juventus star to make his one and only international appearance in a World Cup qualifier against Estonia, on 22 September 1993, in Tallinn. Fortunato took Paolo Maldini’s place and played alongside veteran and national team captain Franco Baresi in a game that Italy won 3–0. The left-back showed striking similarities to Maldini and he was initially even in Sacchi’s plans for the 1994 FIFA World Cup.\n\nHowever, during the second half of the 1993–94 season, the player suffered an unexplained loss of form, and struggled to complete matches due to a lack of energy; he was subsequently dropped from the national team after doctors announced that he had a rare form of leukemia in May 1994. Fortunato initially struggled to find a suitable bone marrow donor, and underwent chemotherapy in a hospital in Turin and an unsuccessful bone marrow transplant from his sister, Paola; he was later transferred to a hospital in Perugia, and after a second bone marrow transplant from his father, appeared to have made a full recovery. The following season, he was included in the Turin club's roster, and was even called up to join the team by new coach Marcello Lippi for Juventus’s clash with Sampdoria in Genoa on 26 February 1995, although he later watched his teammates from the stands.\n\nAlthough his condition initially seemed to be improving well, Fortunato came down with a flu and later caught pneumonia, from which he was unable to recover; he died in a hospital in Perugia on 25 April 1995; the eve of Italy’s game against Lithuania in Vilnius; the Italian national team observed a minute of silence in his honour prior to the match, and also dedicated the 1–0 victory to him. His funeral took place on 27 April, in his hometown of Salerno. That season, Lippi’s Juventus went on to win their 23rd League title, dedicated to Fortunato, known as \"Fortunato’s Scudetto\". Juventus also won the Coppa Italia, and the Supercoppa Italiana that year, and reached the UEFA Cup Final. In total, Fortunato made 27 league appearances for Juventus, all of which came during the 1993–94 season, scoring one goal for the club, which came in a 3–1 away defeat to Lazio on 12 December 1993, in Serie A.\n\nA strong, hard-working, dynamic, energetic, and gregarious team player, Fortunato was known for his pace, class, stamina, determination, and tactical intelligence as a footballer, which enabled him to cover the left flank well and win back possession effectively. He also had a good left foot and was known for his crossing accuracy from the touchline, and ability to beat opponents, make attacking runs down the wing, and deliver balls to teammates in the area. Although he played at left-back throughout his professional career, or as an attacking wing-back, he was a highly versatile player, who started out playing as a centre-forward and as a left midfielder in his youth, and was also capable of playing as a central or defensive midfielder, as a centre-back, or as a sweeper. A precocious player, he was regarded as one of the most promising young left-backs of his generation in Italy; his playing style was frequently compared with that of legendary former Juventus full-back Antonio Cabrini. In addition to his talent and footballing skills, Fortunato was also known for his calm composure, friendly personality, and strong mentality, both on the pitch and in the dressing room, in spite of his reserved, and introverted character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856096", "title": "WVKR-FM", "text": "WVKR-FM\n\nWVKR-FM \"(Independent Radio)\" is a college radio station owned by, and primarily staffed by students of, Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York. The station broadcasts on 91.3 MHz at 3,700 watts ERP from a tower in Milton, New York with a directional signal to the south. The station also streams on the web.\n\nWhen Vassar College became a co-educational institution in 1969, the school began plans to launch a campus radio station to serve both the campus and the nearby communities. Originally, the college planned to apply for a low-power license, however plans soon changed to a full-power licence when the tower site of WEOK-FM was donated to Vassar College after the construction of a new tower in Illinois Mountain in Marlboro. WVKR signed on from this tower on a test basis in December 1971 with full operations commencing after upgrades to the tower were made in March 1972.\n\nFor its entire existence, WVKR has been a primarily student-run station with a core staff of community volunteers running some programs on the station. Key programming on the station includes \nblues, jazz, hip hop, vintage rock, polka music, world music, classical, Cajun/Zydeco, talk, and indie rock, among others.\n\nOne of the longest running programs on the station, \"Pete Clark's Orphanage of Rock and Roll,\" features rare rock and pop from the 60s 70s and 80s. It has run on WVKR for close to two decades on Friday afternoons from 3pm to 5pm.\n\nDoug Price and his Friday night Blues After Hours have been known and loved by Blues fans throughout Dutchess County since the late 1980s.\n\nWVKR also streams its broadcast on the internet, accessible through its website, thus serving not only the Vassar College and Hudson Valley communities, but also anyone else in the world who chooses to listen to the webcast.\n\nThrough its history WVKR has had several notable disk jockeys (DJs) who went on to further success in the music field; these include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856098", "title": "Jack Unruh", "text": "Jack Unruh\n\nJack Unruh (July 31, 1935 – May 16, 2016) was an American commercial illustrator whose works featured in advertising projects for all types of companies. Unruh won several awards from the Society of Illustrators. His work focuses primarily on the outdoors.\n\nUnruh was born July 31, 1935 in Pretty Prairie, Kansas and primarily resided in Dallas, Texas. He passed on May 16, 2016.\n\nUnruh earned a B.F.A. from Washington University in St. Louis. Among his projects are illustrations for the Congo Gorilla Forest at the Bronx Zoo. He is a former instructor at East Texas State University where two of his students were Michael Schwab and Gary Panter.\n\nA native of Pretty Prairie, Kansas and the son of an Air Force pilot, Jack lived in a variety of places while growing up. After graduating from Washington University in St Louis he settled and began his illustration career in Dallas, Texas.\n\nMuch of his work parallels an interest in the outdoors, while some of the more conceptual illustrations are a result of waiting for the hatch or watching the sunset over West Texas quail country.\n\nThe results have been published in \"Entertainment Weekly\", Rolling Stone, Atlantic Monthly, Time, Sports Illustrated, Readers Digest, New York Magazine, National Geographic, Sports Afield, Field and Stream, \"GQ\", \"Road and Track\" and \"Texas Monthly\". See the most recent article:\n\nAnnual Reports include Borg Warner, MCI, Transamerica, Halliburton, Brinker International, Herman Miller, Sony, Hartford Financial Services, United Technologies, Entergy and Readers Digest. IBM, Citicorp, Exxon/Mobil, Budweiser, American Airlines, Champion Paper, Interstate Batteries, Remington Firearms, Leatherman Tools, Avia, Georgia Pacific, The Bronx Zoo, Sage Rods, Kendall Jackson, Pac Bell are among Unruh's many advertising assignments.\n\nUnruh has appeared in \"Communication Arts Illustration Annual\" since its inception and has been in numerous shows of American Illustration, Graphis, AIGA and Print. Graphis featured an article, \"Jack Unruh, Quick on the Draw.\" in the 2002 Sept/Oct issue.\n\nAwards include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856108", "title": "Rinard Mills, Ohio", "text": "Rinard Mills, Ohio\n\nRinard Mills is a small unincorporated community on the Little Muskingum River in southwestern Washington Township, Monroe County, Ohio, United States. It is named after Isaac Rinard, who owned a mill at the village. The village is situated on State Route 26 between Marietta (county seat of Washington County) and Woodsfield (county seat of Monroe County). The village has a cemetery. Several years ago, a resident of the community found the remains of a mill stone in the Little Muskingum. It was incorporated into Isaac Rinard's grave marker and was cause for a special event.\n"}
{"id": "1856109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856109", "title": "Closing Argument (horse)", "text": "Closing Argument (horse)\n\nClosing Argument (born April 4, 2002 in Florida) is a retired Thoroughbred racehorse. The son of Successful Appeal won the 2005 Holy Bull Stakes and finished third in the Blue Grass Stakes before competing in the Kentucky Derby.\n\nOn May 7, 2005, trainer Kiaran McLaughlin ran Closing Argument in the 2005 Kentucky Derby. With jockey Cornelio Velasquez aboard, the colt went off as the longest shot on the board at 72:1 odds. He broke from post 18 and bobbled while drifting out but moved up to sixth right behind the leaders as they passed the grandstand for the first time. Around the first turn, he was pushed out nine wide. Down the backstretch and going into the final turn, he inched up to fourth, making his way closer to the rail. Around that turn, he was in the four path and sprinted into first at the top of the stretch. One hundred yards from the wire, Giacamo closed to beat Closing Argument by a half length. It was less than another half length back to eventual Eclipse Award Champion Afleet Alex in third.\n\nIn the second leg of the Triple Crown, Closing Argument was fourth choice in a field of 14 at odds of \n7:1. In the 2005 Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course, he chased the pace just off the leaders as he did in the Derby in fifth. But at the seven furlong mark, he faded from contention and finished ninth behind Afleet Alex and seven others. Closing Argument did not race in the 2005 Belmont Stakes.\n\nHe was retired for 2006 with a record of 3-3-2 in nine career starts and earnings of $986,984. Closing Argument stood at stud at Sequel Stallion in Ocala, Florida, until 2008, when he was moved to Hill 'n' Dale Farms in Lexington, Kentucky.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856115", "title": "Buxton Opera House", "text": "Buxton Opera House\n\nBuxton Opera House is in The Square, Buxton, Derbyshire, England. It is a 902-seat opera house that hosts the annual Buxton Festival and, from 1994 to 2013, the International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival, among others, as well as pantomime at Christmas, musicals and other entertainments year-round. Hosting live performances until 1927, the theatre then was used mostly as a cinema until 1976. In 1979, it was refurbished and reopened as a venue for live performance.\n\nIt was built in 1903 and designed by Frank Matcham, one of Britain's finest theatre architects. He also designed a number of famous London theatres, including the London Palladium (1910) and the London Coliseum (1904).\n\nThe Opera House ran as a successful theatre, receiving touring companies until 1927, when it was turned into a cinema. Silent films were shown until 1932 when the theatre was wired for sound and could present ‘talkies’. The Opera House also became the venue for an annual summer theatre festival from 1936 to 1942, two of them in conjunction with Lillian Bayliss and her London-based Old Vic company. After the Second World War, the theatre continued to serve primarily as a cinema, although the Literary and Dramatic Societies of local schools Buxton College and Cavendish Grammar School staged annual performances of either Shakespeare, such as \"Hamlet\" (1966), \"Coriolanus\" (1968) and \"Macbeth\" (1970), or modern works, such as Bertold Brecht's \"Life of Galileo\" (1967) and Dylan Thomas's \"The Doctor & the Devils\" (1969).\n\nIn 2014, the opera house's former finance chief was jailed for two years for stealing nearly £250,000 from the opera house accounts in 2012 and 2013.\n\nThe Opera House gradually fell into disrepair. In 1976, it was closed and rumours circulated that it would never reopen. In 1979, however, it was restored and an orchestra pit was added to the original Frank Matcham design. Since then, the Opera House has been a full-time venue for stage productions, presenting approximately 450 performances per year, including opera, dance, musical theatre, pantomime, comedy, drama, children's shows and concerts. The theatre is staffed by a small full-time technical crew for all the backstage work, setting up all the shows and artists that appear. Volunteers from the local community are also employed for front-of-house duties including bar work and as ushers.\n\nBy the 1990s, more work was needed to repair and modernise the theatre, and from 1999 to 2001 an extensive programme of internal and external restoration took place. In February 2007, another refurbishment was completed at the Opera House that saw the installation of air conditioning in the gallery and backstage area, new seats in the gallery and upper circle, a new get-in lift to replace the ramp and new backstage working lights as well as re-wiring and painting the backstage area and dressing rooms. The current capacity is 902 seats.\n\nIn 2011, \"FT Magazine\" featured an article on opera house design. In the section called \"My favourite experiences\", the writer praised the European opera houses \"designed by the Viennese architectural firm of Fellner and Helmer (the Zurich Opera House is [an] example) ... [which] represent a near-ideal marriage of size, acoustic and decorative beauty. Their British equivalents are those designed by Frank Matcham – best of all the Buxton Opera House.\"\n\nThe theatre complex also includes the adjacent Victorian Pavilion, the 369-seat Pavilion Arts Centre (rebuilt in 2010; formerly the Paxton Theatre and earlier known as the Playhouse Theatre and The Hippodrome), and the Octagon Hall auditorium (built in 1875), as well as a two-storey restaurant with a bar and gift shop. The arts centre stage area can be converted into a separate 93-seat studio theatre.\n\nSince July 1979, the Opera House and theatre complex has been home to the Buxton Festival, which runs for about two weeks in mid-July and has developed into one of Britain's largest opera-based festivals. Typically, it includes a Handel opera (with conductors such as Harry Christophers) and other rarely seen operas as well as more popular classics. Running alongside it is the Buxton Festival Fringe. It is popular as a warm-up for the Edinburgh Fringe, and it now claims to be the largest 'true' fringe festival in the UK. From 1994 to 2013, the Opera House also hosted the annual three-week-long International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival, attracting audiences from all over the UK and from abroad.\n\nThe Opera House presents over 400 performances each year. Since 2004, the Opera House and the neighbouring Pavilion Gardens have hosted the annual Four Four Time music festival which sees a wide variety of musical performances over one week in February. Performers for the 2008 festival included Marc Almond, Richard Hawley, The Stranglers and Boy George.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856119", "title": "Frank Matcham", "text": "Frank Matcham\n\nFrancis Matcham (22 November 1854 – 17 May 1920) was an English architect who specialised in the design of theatres and music halls. He was best known for his work in London under Moss Empires, which included the designs of the Hippodrome (1900), Hackney Empire (1901), Coliseum (1903), Palladium (1910) and the Victoria Palace (1911). During his 40-year career, he was responsible for the design and construction of over 90 theatres and the redesign and refurbishment of a further 80 throughout the United Kingdom. According to the dramatist Alan Bennett, there was a Matcham theatre in every corner of the UK.\n\nMatcham was born in Newton Abbot, Devon, where he became apprenticed at the age of 14 to the architect George Soudon Bridgman. Matcham moved to London, aged 21, where he joined the architectural practice of J. T. Robinson, who was to become his father-in-law. Under Robinson, Matcham completed his first solo design, the Elephant and Castle Theatre, which opened in June 1879. He took over the business on Robinson's death and continued the designs of various provincial theatres. He formed his own practice, Matcham & Co., in the 1880s and enlisted skilled craftsmen. His first major association came in the 1880s when he was employed to design and refurbish theatres belonging to the Revill family who owned many of the theatres throughout the UK at that time.\n\nMatcham's most successful period was between 1892 and 1912 when he worked extensively for Moss Empires, a theatrical company headed by Edward Moss and run by Oswald Stoll. Under them, he completed 21 theatres, most of which were in the provinces. Also during this period, although not with Moss Empires, he completed the designs for the Tower Ballroom at Blackpool Tower and the Grand Theatre, Blackpool, both in 1894; and the County Arcade, Leeds, in 1900. The author Iain Mackintosh, writing for the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" in 1993, describes Matcham's theatre interiors to be superior when compared to the building's external designs. Matcham's use of cantilevers for the galleries allowed him to discontinue the use of columns, which would otherwise obstruct the audience's view of the stage. The auditorium decorations were often mixed with Tudor strap-work, Louis XIV detail, Anglo-Indian motifs, naval and military insignia, rococo panels, classical statuary, and baroque columns.\n\nMatcham retired to Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex, shortly before the First World War, where he died of a heart attack, brought about by a blood infection, in 1920. His biographer Brian Walker notes from the architect's personal archives that he was \"a man of remarkable vigour and had an enthusiasm for life ... he possessed a tranquility of mind and a great sense of humour and fun.\"\n\nFrancis Matcham was born on 22 November 1854 in Newton Abbot, Devon. He was the second of nine children and the eldest son of Charles Matcham (1826–1888), a brewer, and his wife, Elizabeth Lancaster (1830–1905). In 1857 Charles Matcham moved his family from Newton Abbot to Union Street, Torquay, where he secured a job as a manager of a brewery and a malthouse. Frank was educated at Babbacombe School, in Babbacombe, Torquay.\n\nMatcham showed an early interest in architecture and became apprenticed at the age of 14 to George Soudon Bridgeman, a local architect. The apprenticeship lasted 18 months until Matcham was offered a job at a quantity surveyor's office in London in around 1868. Working in the capital allowed Matcham to study with different architectural professionals. His training under a quantity surveyor taught him how to draw up estimates of cost, interact with building contractors, and introduced him to complex calculations, something which he was unlikely to have been taught at school. He also learnt the importance of working to tight schedules imposed by demanding customers.\nIn his spare time, Matcham visited many of London's buildings but took a particular liking to theatres and music halls. A building of special interest to him was the newly completed Gaiety Theatre in the Strand, designed by Charles J. Phipps. Matcham was impressed at Phipps's ability to build a normal-sized theatre on a small, awkward plot, and it is probable that Matcham gained inspiration from the Gaiety in some of his later buildings which were also built on restricted plots of land. It is not known how long Matcham spent in London, although it was not uncommon for an architect to take up to six years to become qualified. The theatre historian Görel Garlick estimates that Matcham spent three years in the capital during this time, which would seem probable as by 1871 Matcham was back in Torquay and again under the guidance of Bridgeman, this time as his chief assistant. Bridgeman was eager to take advantage of Matcham's experience in London and asked him to help on the redesign of the Lyceum Theatre in Torquay.\n\nIsaac Singer, the American businessman, moved from France to Devon in late 1871. His intention was to buy a large property in the English countryside for his family. His attempt at buying Isambard Kingdom Brunel's estate was unsuccessful and instead he purchased the Fernham Estate, in Torbay, on which Oldway Mansion was eventually built. Singer commissioned Bridgeman's office to undertake the design and instructed that a theatre be built within the house, long since demolished. In an edition of \"The Builder\", dated 1873, Matcham was named in the request for tender section as being the accepted party to work alongside Bridgeman on the Oldway Mansion project. Garlick considers it entirely possible that Matcham was given responsibility for the design of the theatre because of his educational experiences in London. Singer spared no cost in terms of Oldway Mansion's construction; he sourced the finest materials from around the world and instructed Bridgeman to design the interior in exuberant French style. Garlick notes that it was highly likely that Singer's exuberance would have influenced someone as architecturally impressionable as Matcham whose later theatres also used extravagant decoration.\n\nIn around 1875, soon after the completion of Singer's house, Matcham secured a job with J. T. Robinson's office in London. The employment allowed Matcham to become more familiar with what Matcham's biographer Brian Mercer Walker calls, \"theatre design of a high order\". Matcham's time under Robinson was brief; Robinson died unexpectedly at the family home in Bloomsbury Square, London, in 1877, shortly after Matcham's marriage to Robinson's daughter, Maria, on 9 July. Matcham was entrusted by the family to continue with Robinson's designs which included the refurbishment of the Elephant and Castle Theatre, as well as the modifications to the Cambridge Music Hall in Shoreditch.\n\nBy the mid-1870s around 137 theatre fires had been reported in the United Kingdom which prompted parliament to create the Metropolis Management and Building Act (1878) which established safety rules for developers to adhere to. Matcham found the rules to be problematic; because of them, the Elephant and Castle Theatre project had to be extended by six months.\n\nIn 1882 Matcham took on the redesign of the Grand Theatre in Islington. It was an important project for Matcham: it was the first to be designed using unobstructed sight lines to the stage and was notable for its holding capacity, and prompt construction, something for which he latterly became known in architectural circles. The Grand was revolutionary in its design; it was used as an educational showpiece to amateur architects and it was often visited and commented on by architectural critics and journalists. In one of the three volumes, entitled \"Modern Opera Houses and Theatres\", which were published between 1896 and 1898, the author Edwin Sachs made reference to the Grand's \"good sighting and acoustics of the auditorium, economy of space and cost, and rapidity of execution\". Matcham's improvement of sight lines were a result of his use of cantilevered steel. This new design allowed for the balconies to protrude into the auditorium without the use of the supporting pillars which increased seating capacity and gave the audience better views to the stage. It was a design that Matcham patented and incorporated into all his future theatrical designs.\n\nThe Paragon in Mile End, East London, in 1882, was Matcham's next major project. The design was one of importance, according to Walker, as it showed a great emphasis on the ventilation system—the first of its kind—which used a sun burner in the roof and warm air ducts, above ground level, which emitted draughts. The builders of the theatre, Crowder and Payne, advertised the venue as being \"the best ventilated theatre in London\". It opened in May the following year to much praise for its achievements in audience comfort. The success of the Paragon allowed Matcham to open up his own office in Belfast in 1884.\n\nOutside of London, and prior to 1886, Matcham had had only two designs commissioned: Hengler's Grand Cirque and the Royalty Theatre, both in Glasgow. In 1879 he started work on the redesign of the Royalty, a playhouse originally designed by James Thomson and one that had been built on the first floor of a four-storey building. The layout was problematic and Matcham had to make a series of adjustments. To compensate, he designed a ventilation system which involved the installation of an exhaust duct over the auditorium gas light which caused the heat from the burners to rise up and create a movement of air through the theatre. It was a design that he also used on the Gaiety, Matcham's second Glaswegian theatre. The Royalty took just four weeks to complete and was relatively inexpensive, two factors that helped enhance his reputation.\n\nMatcham met the actor and theatrical manager James Elliston in 1886. Elliston, a native of Edinburgh, had heard of the architect through his work in Glasgow and commissioned him to reconstruct the side boxes and gallery and to improve the acoustics and ventilation system at his theatre, the Theatre Royal, Blackburn. Through Elliston, Matcham was introduced to William J. Revill, the proprietor of the People's Temperance Hall in Stockport. The Revill family were influential in theatrical circles with their connection to the stage going back to the 18th century.\n\nRevill contracted Matcham to draw up designs for a new building after the hall was destroyed by a fire in 1887. The new building, as with most of the Revill family's theatres, was to be named the Theatre Royal and Opera House; it was completed to schedule the following year. The finished structure was considered to be state of the art by the town's magistrates who granted an entertainments licence that June. \"The Era\" considered the new building to be \"undoubtedly one of the finest theatres in the country\". According to the biographer Michael Sell, Matcham's relationship with Elliston helped the young architect to become a nationally recognisable name in theatrical architecture and brought him to the forefront of his profession.\n\nMatcham was commissioned in 1888 by Revill's son, the theatre manager Wallace Revill, to design a new theatre on land he had purchased in St Helens, Lancashire. The new theatre was named the Theatre Royal and Opera House. It was constructed of brick with stone dressings and comprised an orchestra pit, stalls, a dress circle of three rows, an upper circle, which had the unusual feature of its own retiring rooms, and a very large gallery which allowed for unobstructed views. The entrance façade was built in the classical style with three wide bays of giant pilasters. On the theatre's opening night the following year, Elliston called the building \"one of the most beautiful theatres [he] had ever seen\".\n\nIn addition to the Stockport theatre under Revill, Matcham received another commission from Elliston, this time to rebuild the Theatre Royal and Opera House, in Bolton, which had caught fire on 4 January 1888. Elliston's only requirement was for the building to be completed within a 20-week period, which Matcham honoured. The foundation stone was laid by the actor Henry Irving on 17 October, a month before its opening. Owing to the large numbers of people who died in a similar theatre fire in Exeter the previous year, Matcham improved the safety features, such as fireproofing the ceilings and walls; widening and straightening the staircases; using outwardly opening doors; installing hydrants on each floor; and hanging an automatic, fireproof curtain in the auditorium. The interior was decorated in terracotta and gold tints and the seats covered in crimson upholstery.\n\nOther theatres followed for the Revill family who had by now employed Matcham full-time to work on their projects. Bury and Rochdale, then both in Lancashire, were to get their own Theatre Royal and Opera House with the Rochdale building being a renovation of an existing building. The Bury theatre opened on 26 December 1889 with a pantomime production. The theatre lacked interior decoration as Matcham had been behind schedule. He made a rare appearance, on stage, that night, and assured the audience that during a fortnight's closure he would complete the designs. To compensate for the lateness, he took the unusual step of sub-contracting the auditorium's art work out to a London-based sculptor.\n\nThe following year Matcham was contracted by Frederick Purcell, a member of the extended Revill family, to undertake the renovations of his theatre that had caught fire the year before. Matcham was afforded the benefit of being able to use the existing building, which increased the possibility of his being able to finish the project on time. The same year, The Grand Cirque and Amphitheatre opened in Bolton. Matcham's design allowed for it to be used as a circus and a theatre and for the venue to be changed between the two in a few hours. It was decorated in the Italian style and had the capacity to seat 3,200 people. The circus ring eventually fell out of favour with audiences and it was covered over.\n\nPurcell took over the family business in 1899 after the death of four of its members but only commissioned a few buildings over the next decade, including the Alexandra Theatre, Stoke Newington. Matcham continued to work with Purcell until around 1908 when the latter decided to wind up the business. Matcham's last design for the family, according to the historian Michael Sell, was the King's Theatre, Southsea, in 1907. The architecture historian Nikolaus Pevsner called the King's Theatre \"splendid\" and described the theatre as having a \"prominent hexagonal tower with Ionic columns and lion finials around a broad spire-like top crowned by a cupola with a replica statue of Aurora. The interior is charming and richly detailed, making full use of the tight space. Plaster figures and mouldings in Matcham's full-blown Baroque.\"\n\nThe establishment date of Matcham & Co. is unclear; it could originate from when Matcham established his office in Belfast in 1884 after the success of the Paragon Theatre in Mile End, or it could be a renaming of Robinson's business which Matcham took over a decade or so prior to the 1880s. What is known is that it operated out of three offices in Holborn at different times. The first was in Bedford Row, between 1880 and 1886, after which it moved to 3 Great James Street. The business stayed there until 1893 when it moved again, this time to 9 Warwick Court, where it remained until after Matcham's death. It is not known how many staff Matcham employed; he worked with a regular team of assistants and craftsmen, among them, Felix De Jong, an expert in work with fibrous plaster; Jonas Binns, a specialist decorator; and Albert Dean, a master furnisher. During their time in operation, Matcham & Co. completed around 170 theatre designs. Matcham was assisted in his designs and the running of the business by the engineer R.A. Briggs and F.G.M. Chancellor, an architect. Little is known of the working relationship between the three men, only that it was a prosperous one.\n\nBefore variety theatre, music halls were the preferred entertainment of the working-class communities, in London and the provinces. Acts including George Robey and Marie Lloyd were deemed \"overly racy\", according to \"The Stage\", with major theatres banning them in the interests of decency. The restrictions were brief, mainly because of the negative effect such censorship was having on audience numbers. By the 1880s most music halls were either operated by amateur syndicates who were more enthusiastic about the theatrical business than about profits, or wealthy businessmen who were uninterested in the entertainment side of things and more focused towards the money the theatres generated. Safety, in both cases, was frequently compromised as it was costly and renovations were often ignored. Music halls had, for many years, been a hugely profitable business, but had become the subject of stringent regulations and safety controls. By 1880 covert inspections were taking place by local authorities to ensure proprietors were adhering to the safety requirements; the rules were so strict that a lot of the ageing halls, particularly those whose proprietors had little money, were forced to close. Those that remained open were instructed to improve and refurbish their premises to meet expectations. The boom required competent architects who knew how theatres worked.\n\nFrom 1898 to 1910 Oswald Stoll had been the managing director of Moss Empires, a theatrical entertainment circuit headed by the impresario Edward Moss, which at its height was responsible for 33 theatres around Great Britain. Matcham first worked for Moss Empires in 1892 on the Empire Palace, Edinburgh. Moss was so impressed with Matcham's work that he commissioned him to design other provincial theatres over the next seven years. Matcham's work in London under the impresarios included the Empire in Hackney, and the Coliseum and Hippodrome theatres, both in Westminster. In total, Matcham was responsible for designing 21 theatres for Moss and Stoll over a 20-year period which ended with the Wood Green Empire, in 1912.\n\nStoll intended the Hackney Empire to be his London headquarters, but the plan changed midway through construction when he decided to locate his offices further into central London: this caused a drastic reduction in the budget for the Empire to allow extra finances for Stoll's new headquarters at the Coliseum. Matcham rushed together a secondary, cheaper design of the Empire's façade and presented it to Stoll on a piece of scrap tracing paper. The exterior of the Empire was a design that Matcham always loathed but was one, according to the historian Michael Sell, that demonstrated the architect's \"seemingly endless powers of invention\" and one that will \"forever remain a landmark\". The auditorium is noted by Historic England as being \"one of the most exuberant Matcham interiors in Britain\", while the historian Brian Walker called the Empire's interior \"the most perfect Matcham interior in Greater London\". Pevsner considered the Empire to be \"splendidly confident\" and \"among the best-surviving Edwardian variety theatres\".\n\nFor the Coliseum, Matcham encountered a problem; Stoll wanted the theatre to be the largest and most lavish in London. Matcham was concerned that the vast size would cause a reduction in sound quality and view to the stage; accordingly, he gave particular attention to the theatre's acoustics and designed the balconies so that they sloped towards the auditorium sides, rather than the more traditional method of being supported by pilotis; Matcham pioneered the use of cantilevered steel in his designs, and took out patents to protect his work. The theatre featured a revolving stage, the first of its kind in London, which allowed for imaginative ideas, including the theatre's extravagant celebrations of Derby Day, featuring guesting jockeys riding real horses, galloping against the moving revolve. Backstage there were, according to Pevsner, \"box-to-box telephones\" and \"changing rooms so that evening dress could be donned on site\". The Coliseum cost £250,000 to build.\n\nWalker called it the \"fruit of close collaboration and understanding between client and architect\". He further noted: \"Matcham's frequently noticed skill in planning is here matched by a different kind of wizardry. Few of his contemporaries could have made so memorable an architectural statement on so short a frontage in such an unpretentious thoroughfare. It is much more impressive than, for example, the neighbouring Garrick Theatre of 1889...\" According to the theatrical magazine \"The Stage\", Matcham's design provided \"a handsome marble staircase, the landmark tower topped by a revolving globe and an impressive range of amenities, including spacious tea-rooms on each floor, lifts to the theatre's upper levels, lavishly decorated retiring rooms, a roof-garden with a glass-domed roof and an information bureau from which messages and telegrams could be sent and where doctors might register their whereabouts in case of emergencies\".\n\nMatcham rarely ventured away from theatres, but did on occasion. He was commissioned by the Blackpool Tower Company, a Standard Contract & Debenture Corporation, to design the decoration for the ballroom, which formed part of their entertainment complex in Blackpool, Lancashire. The ballroom's interior was Matcham's only design for the complex, although Historic England consider it probable that he was also responsible for the remodelling of the circus, also within the complex, in 1900. Pevsner considered the circus to be \"the largest and most elaborate theatre of its type in England\" and provided the UK with a \"permanent setting for a circus not available in any other resort\". The complex opened in 1894.\n\nThe regeneration of Briggate in the 1890s, one of the oldest streets in Leeds, included the building of a number of shopping arcades to accompany the existing Thorntons Arcade, completed in 1878. Matcham designed the Cross and County Arcades for the Leeds Estate Company, between 1898 and 1900, at the northernmost part of the street. At the same time as his work on the County Arcade, he designed the Empire Palace, for Moss, which was located further down Briggate, and 49–51 Vicar Lane; 2–24 King Edward Street and 115–120, Briggate, which consisted of shops and offices within the County Arcade development.\n\nThe construction costs of the County Arcade were in excess of £300,000. According to Walker, Matcham's biographer, the architect took on the designs for the County Arcade either because of a decline in the need for new theatres, or an attempt to try out something different. Either way, Walker considered the project to be completely out of character for Matcham who had previously displayed such energy and enthusiasm for all his designs.\n\nTogether with a few public houses in London, Matcham's other non-theatrical commissions include a new wing for the Royal Variety Artistes’ Benevolent Fund at Brinsworth House and a printing works in Southwark.\n\nIn 1910 the London Palladium was completed and opened on 26 December. Designs for the Victoria Palace Theatre were already under way; it opened the following November. During the design stage of the Palace, Matcham was also working alongside Bertie Crewe for a new Hippodrome in Bristol which was to become Matcham's last major design. The inter-war period was slow for theatrical architects and builders, mainly because of the introduction of cinema, and many of the theatres that had been designed in Matcham's office were now becoming picture houses. Matcham & Co.'s projects had started to slow down by 1913; that year, the only theatrical venture was the Palace Theatre, in Leicester.\nMatcham retired to Westcliff-on-Sea with his wife shortly before the First World War and left the running of the business to Chancellor and Briggs. He died at his house, 28 Westcliff Parade, on 17 May 1920. His death was attributed to blood poisoning, brought about from cutting his finger nails too short. The funeral took place at St. Paul's Church, Finchley, before his interment in the family vault in Highgate Cemetery. He left an estate worth £86,389 (£ in adjusted for inflation). Matcham bequeathed his company, equally, to Briggs and Chancellor. A journalist for \"The Architect\" newspaper predicted that the business would continue, which it did, although it never achieved the same success as it did under Matcham. Upon the outbreak of the Second World War, Chancellor retired and moved to the countryside, where he died in 1941. Briggs held the business in a dormant state until after the war when it was sold to a property agency in Covent Garden. It continued, on a small scale, until it was eventually wound up in the late 1970s.\n\nMatcham was a devoted if frequently absent husband and father. He married Maria Robinson, the daughter of his tutor, J. T. Robinson, on 9 July 1877 at St. James's Church, Pentonville. They had two daughters; Eveline, who was born in 1878, and Constance, in 1884. In an interview with \"Vanity Fair\", Matcham listed an interest in music but admitted that although he owned a Stradivarius violin, he \"wasn't particular good with it\". Another hobby was amateur dramatics and on occasion, the Matchams would stage minor pieces, for the entertainment of their neighbours, when they lived in Dollis Avenue, Finchley. From a review of Matcham's personal archives, Walker concludes that the architect was \"a man of remarkable vigour and enthusiasm for life ... he possessed a tranquility of mind and a great sense of humour and fun.\"\n\nOf Matcham's eight siblings, two were notable: Charles Matcham (1862–1911) moved to America in 1881 and became a millionaire businessman within the civil engineering industry. His early work for the American Bell Telephone Company included the building of the first telephone exchanges in Europe and the introduction of the telephone to St. Petersburg and Riga where he personally installed Alexander II of Russia's phone system. Through his later work, he founded several concrete-making companies and invented a cement stone pulveriser for which he owned the patent. Sydney Matcham (1868–1957) moved to Allentown, Pennsylvania, where he founded the Matcham Travel Bureau, the city's first travel agency.\n\nMatcham's theatres were often mocked by architects during the five decades after his death, and little care was taken by local authorities to preserve them during area regeneration programmes in the 1960s. It was only after 1970 that his buildings were taken seriously and, according to Mackintosh, his genius was widely recognised. The Theatre Museum, in 1995, acquired in excess of 7000 of Matcham's drawings. Of these, around 500 are highly finished and represent over seventy-five theatres or cinemas and about one-sixth of his total life's output.\nThe total number of theatres Matcham designed is unknown and has been the subject of much speculation. The architect Victor Glasstone estimated the architect's work to include 66 new theatres and the remodelling and restoration of 58 others, between 1879 and 1910; Matcham's biographer Brian Walker lists him ahead of his contemporaries and counts 92 designs, with the closest to him being Charles J. Phipps, with 72. According to the theatre historians John Earl and Michael Sell, Matcham was the original architect for half of the 48 surviving theatres associated with him, and the rest he restored, altered or remodelled from existing buildings. A further 111 of his theatres were bombed during the wars, destroyed by fire, or demolished as part of area regeneration, mostly during the 1960s.\n\nFrom the start of the 1900s Crewe and W. G. R. Sprague had started to make names for themselves in architectural circles. It has been suggested by various architectural journals that Crewe and Sprague were pupils of Matcham, and although Glasstone was sceptical of this in his 1975 book \"Victorian and Edwardian Theatres\", the author Iain Mackintosh noted a clear Matcham influence in Sprague and Crewe's designs; he describes the former as being suaver compared to Matcham, whilst Crewe, although sharing a lot of Matcham's exuberance, was \"more polished\" because of his earlier training in Paris. Sir Alfred Butt, writing in \"The Era\", considered: \"Frank Matcham lived for his work, and unquestionably was pre-eminent as a theatrical and music hall architect.\" According to the historians, Roger Dixon and Stefan Muthesius, Matcham was \"the most consistent and prolific architect of the later music halls... his buildings, mostly in the provinces and the suburbs of London, [were] equal or exceed in splendour [compared to] the metropolitan theatres and opera houses.\"\n\nOn 22 November 2007 Matcham was commemorated by English Heritage when a blue plaque was unveiled by the actor Timothy West and the actress Prunella Scales at his former London home, 10 Haslemere Road, Hornsey.\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "1856120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856120", "title": "Olivia Colman", "text": "Olivia Colman\n\nSarah Caroline Olivia Sinclair, (née Colman; 30 January 1974), known professionally as Olivia Colman, is an English actress. She is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, four BAFTA Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, four British Independent Film Awards, a Screen Actors Guild Award, a Volpi Cup, and a BFI Fellowship.\n\nA graduate of the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School, Colman first came to prominence for her work in television. She made her acting breakthrough as Sophie Chapman in the Channel 4 comedy series \"Peep Show\" (2003–2015). Her other comedic roles in television include \"Green Wing\" (2004–2006), \"That Mitchell and Webb Look\" (2006–2008), \"Beautiful People\" (2008–2009), \"Rev.\" (2010–2014), and \"Flowers\" (2016–2018). Colman received the British Academy Television Award for Best Female Comedy Performance for the comedy programme \"Twenty Twelve\" (2011–2012), Best Supporting Actress for the anthology crime programme \"Accused\" (2012), and Best Actress for the ITV crime drama programme \"Broadchurch\" (2013–2017). For her performance in the thriller miniseries \"The Night Manager\" (2016), she won a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress and was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award. For her performance in the comedy programme \"Fleabag\" (2016–2019), Colman received a nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress. In 2019, she portrayed Queen Elizabeth II in the Netflix period drama programme \"The Crown\", for which she received the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama.\n\nColman's major film roles include PC Doris Thatcher in \"Hot Fuzz\" (2007), Hannah in \"Tyrannosaur\" (2011), Carol Thatcher in \"The Iron Lady\" (2011), Queen Elizabeth in \"Hyde Park on Hudson\" (2012), Bethan Maguire in \"Locke\" (2013), Margaret Lea in \"The Thirteenth Tale\" (2013), the Hotel Manager in \"The Lobster\" (2015), and Hildegarde Schmidt in \"Murder on the Orient Express\" (2017). For her portrayal of Anne, Queen of Great Britain in the period black comedy film \"The Favourite\" (2018), she received critical acclaim and won numerous accolades, including the Academy Award for Best Actress, the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role.\n\nSarah Caroline Olivia Colman was born in Norwich on 30 January 1974, the daughter of nurse Mary (née Leakey) and chartered surveyor Keith Colman. She was privately educated at Norwich High School for Girls and Gresham's School in Holt, Norfolk. Her first role was Jean Brodie in a school production of \"The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie\" at the age of 16. She cites her mother's interrupted career as a ballet dancer as an inspiration to pursue acting professionally. Colman spent a term studying primary teaching at Homerton College, Cambridge before studying drama at the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School, from which she graduated in 1999. During her time at Cambridge, she auditioned for the Cambridge University Footlights Dramatic Club and met future co-stars David Mitchell and Robert Webb.\n\nColman was a subject of the UK genealogy programme \"Who Do You Think You Are?\" in July 2018. Although she expected that her family tree would mainly relate to Norfolk, it was discovered that her fourth great-grandfather, Richard Campbell Bazett, had been born on the island of Saint Helena and that he worked in London for the East India Company. Bazett's son, Colman's third great-grandfather Charles Bazett, married Harriot Slessor. Researchers discovered that she was born in the Indian city of Kishanganj, lost her British father when she was aged three, and then made the journey to England alone. Slessor's passage was paid for by her paternal grandmother. The episode speculated that Slessor's mother might have been Indian, but did not present concrete proof; after the episode aired, the Berkshire Record Office published the will of Slessor's mother, which proved that her name was Seraphina Donclere, evidently of European origin, and that she died in 1810.\n\nColman made her professional acting debut in 2000, at the age of 26, as part of the BBC2 comedy sketch show \"Bruiser\". She has since appeared in roles in many BBC, ITV, and Channel 4 television series, such as \"People Like Us\", \"Look Around You\", \"Black Books\", \"The Office\", \"The Time of Your Life\" and provided the voice-over for Five's poll for \"Britain's Funniest Comedy Character\".\n\nColman regularly featured in BBC Radio 4 comedies, such as \"Concrete Cow\", \"Think the Unthinkable\", \"The House of Milton Jones\" and \"Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency\". She was also the voice of Minka, the Polish secretary in the Radio 4 comedy \"Hut 33\", set in a fictional codebreaking hut of the real-life Bletchley Park during World War II. Colman appeared as Bev, alongside Mark Burdis as Kev, in a series of television adverts for AA car insurance. She provided voices for the Andrex \"be kind to your behind\" adverts and Glade fragrance adverts, where her character is a gorilla.\n\nOn several projects, Colman has worked with the comedians Mitchell and Webb. She joined them in 2003 to play the role of Sophie in the Channel 4 comedy \"Peep Show\". Other joint ventures have included radio's \"That Mitchell and Webb Sound\", and the television version \"That Mitchell and Webb Look\". She decided to leave the programme after her agent suggested that she was becoming too closely associated with their work and needed to widen her horizons: a decision that was made \"with tears\". She continued to appear on \"Peep Show\", though in a reduced capacity, until it ended in 2015.\n\nColman also had a recurring role in the surreal comedy \"Green Wing\" from 2004 to 2006. One of her earliest film credits include naturist Joanna Roberts in the 2006 mockumentary film \"Confetti\" – a role she once described as \"the worst experience of my life\".\n\nIn 2007, Colman starred as Alice in the comedy \"Grow Your Own\", and PC Doris Thatcher in the action comedy \"Hot Fuzz\". She also played a lead role in Paddy Considine's short film \"Dog Altogether\".\n\nIn October and November 2008, Colman appeared in the BBC sitcom \"Beautiful People\", based on the life of Simon Doonan, as Debbie Doonan, Simon's mother. She also made a guest appearance in \"Skins\", in the episode \"Naomi\" as Naomi's mother Gina. In 2010, Colman took a leading role as Alex Smallbone, the wife of an inner-city vicar, in the BBC sitcom \"Rev.\" Also in 2010, she guest starred in \"The Eleventh Hour\" episode of \"Doctor Who\", Matt Smith's debut as the Eleventh Doctor. In 2011, Colman appeared in the BBC drama \"Exile\", written by Danny Brocklehurst and starring John Simm and Jim Broadbent. From 2011 to 2012, she played Sally Owen, the lovelorn secretary to Hugh Bonneville's character Ian Fletcher, in \"Twenty Twelve\", a comedy series about planning for the 2012 Olympic Games in London.\n\nColman reteamed with Considine for his feature directorial debut, \"Tyrannosaur\" (2011). For her role in the film, she won the BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film and the Empire Award for Best Actress. Also in 2011, Colman played Carol Thatcher in the Academy Award-winning drama film \"The Iron Lady\", with Meryl Streep and Jim Broadbent, for which she was awarded the London Film Critics' Circle Award for British Actress of the Year.\n\nIn 2013, Colman began playing DS Ellie Miller in ITV's \"Broadchurch\". The crime drama series is set in the fictional Dorset town of Broadchurch, and follows the residents of a tight-knit community after a young boy is killed under suspicious circumstances. She was nominated for an International Emmy Award for Best Actress and won a BAFTA TV Award for Best Actress for her performance. Also in 2013, she starred as Margaret Lea, opposite Vanessa Redgrave, in the BBC television film \"The Thirteenth Tale\".\n\nIn 2015, Colman starred in Yorgos Lanthimos' absurdist dystopian film \"The Lobster\" with Rachel Weisz and Colin Farrell, for which she was nominated for the London Film Critics' Circle Award for Supporting Actress of the Year and won the BIFA Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nIn 2016, Colman received praise for her performance as Angela Burr in the AMC/BBC miniseries \"The Night Manager\", for which she was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award and received a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film. That same year, she starred as Deborah Flowers in the Channel 4 black comedy series \"Flowers\". She also provided the voice of Strawberry in the Netflix/BBC animated miniseries \"Watership Down\". In 2017, she played Princess Dragomiroff's lady's maid Hildegarde Schmidt in the remake of Agatha Christie's \"Murder on the Orient Express\".\n\nIn 2018, Colman starred as Queen Anne in Lanthimos' film \"The Favourite\", opposite Emma Stone and Rachel Weisz. In preparation for the role, she gained 2st 7 lb (35 lb or 16 kg) in weight. For her performance, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress, the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role. Her awe-struck and humorous Academy Awards acceptance speech was widely covered in the media.\n\nColman also received positive reviews for her supporting role as Madame Thénardier in the 2018 BBC miniseries \"Les Misérables\", an adaptation of the novel of the same name. In August 2019, she was confirmed as a guest star as Lily in the thirty-second season of the animated comedy series \"The Simpsons\".\n\nIn October 2017, Colman was cast as Queen Elizabeth II in the third and fourth season of the Netflix historical drama series \"The Crown\". The third season was released in November 2019. For her performance, she won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series.\n\nIn the late 1990s, while performing in a Footlights production of Alan Ayckbourn's \"Table Manners\", Colman met Ed Sinclair, then a third-year law student who had become disillusioned with law and preferred to write. Colman and Sinclair married in August 2001, and have three children together. They live in south London.\n\nSince 2013, she has been a judge on the panel of the Norwich Film Festival. In August 2014, Colman was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" opposing Scottish independence in the run-up to September 2014's referendum on the issue.\n\nIn 2013, Colman presented two awards at the Mind Media Awards, which celebrate accurate, responsible and sensitive portrayals of mental health across all areas of the media. Colman believes that \"the media industry has huge influence and with that comes a responsibility to contest the stigma that sadly still exists, through accurate representation.\" Colman has spoken openly to the \"Big Issue\" about her experience of postnatal depression after the birth of her first child.\n\nInspired by her research for the film \"Tyrannosaur\", in 2014, Colman became the patron of the UK charity Tender, which uses theatre and the arts to educate young people about how to prevent violence and sexual abuse. Colman says that domestic violence prevention can make a real difference in the lives of young people. Other charity work included participating in the Alzheimer's Society's Holkham Hall Memory Walk in September 2013. Colman's great-grandmother suffered from dementia and her mother was involved in running a nursing home for sufferers. Colman has also given support to charity campaigns for the Marie Curie Great Daffodil Appeal (care for the terminally ill). Colman became Patron of blood cancer charity Anthony Nolan in 2018, which Colman says helped a friend of hers.\n\nIn December 2014, Colman was involved in a BBC Radio documentary about the plight of women in Afghanistan on behalf of Amnesty International UK. Several women who told their stories to journalist Lyse Doucet were unable to appear because their lives might have been at risk. Colman read their stories as part of the documentary. In response to the work, Colman warned that the UK must not abandon Afghan women to the Taliban.\n\nColman has received various awards throughout her career, including an Academy Award, three British Academy Television Awards, a British Academy Film Award, four British Independent Film Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, two Critics' Choice Movie Awards, three Satellite Awards, a Screen Actors Guild Award, a Volpi Cup, and a BFI Fellowship.\n\nFor her performance in the miniseries \"The Night Manager\" (2016), she won a Golden Globe Award and was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award. She received another Primetime Emmy Award nomination for the comedy series \"Fleabag\" (2016–2019). For her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth II in the Netflix period drama series \"The Crown\" (2019), she received a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, among others.\n\nFor her portrayal of Anne, Queen of Great Britain in the period black comedy film \"The Favourite\" (2018), she received the Academy Award for Best Actress, the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress - Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role, among numerous others.\n\nColman was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2019 Birthday Honours for services to drama.\n"}
{"id": "1856124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856124", "title": "Wojciech Has", "text": "Wojciech Has\n\nWojciech Jerzy Has (1 April 1925, Kraków – 3 October 2000, Łódź) was a Polish film director, screenwriter and film producer.\n\nWojciech Jerzy Has was born in Kraków. Has himself was agnostic. The name \"Has\" is the Hollandic, Yiddish and Germanised Jewish surname \"Haas\" (האָז), meaning \"hare\" in English. However, his family on both sides was Roman Catholic, although he was a committed philosemite.\n\nDuring the wartime German occupation of Poland, Has studied at the Kraków Business and Commerce College and later clandestine underground classes at the Kraków Academy of Fine Arts - until it was disbanded in 1943. When the war ended, he went on to study at the reconstituted Academy of Fine Arts in Kraków. In 1946, Has completed a one-year course in film and began producing educational and documentary films at the Warsaw Documentary Film Studio, and in the 1950s moved on to work at Poland's premier filmmaking academy, the National Film Studio, in Łódź.\n\nHas made his debut with \"Harmony\" (\"Harmonia\", 1948), a medium-length feature, and began making full-length feature films in 1957. In 1974, he was appointed as professor in the directing department at the National Film School in Łódź. Throughout his long and prolific career, he directed such notable films as \"The Saragossa Manuscript\", \"The Doll\" and \"The Hour-Glass Sanatorium\" (also known as \"The Sandglass\").\n\nEarly on in his career, Has gained a reputation as an individualist who avoided political overtones in his art. He produced his most important films throughout the period when the Polish Film School was at its most prominent; however, his work possessed its own stylistic feeling that was independent of the over policial themes that dominated the prevailing Polish School. In practically every film, Has sought to create hermetic environments, in which the problems and storylines of his protagonists were always of secondary importance to the particular world he had created, characterized by an accumulation of random objects that formed unique visual universe.\n\n\"If Wojciech Has had become a painter, he would surely have been a Surrealist,\" wrote the Polish critic Aleksander Jackiewicz. \"He would have redrawn antique objects with all their real accoutrements and juxtaposed them in unexpected ways.\" \n\nHas's oeuvre is commonly associated with Surrealist painting in Polish criticism. This is reinforced by the director's dream poetic and his use of objects, which are also characteristic of many canvasses by the Surrealists. Has also created a number of intimate psychological dramas during his career, such as \"How to Be Loved\" and \"Farewells\", focusing on damaged individuals who have difficulty settling into life. In his work, he was fascinated by outsiders and people incapable of finding their place in reality.\n\nTwo currents remain evident in Has's output: one was his cinema of psychological analysis, the other his films of visionary form, in which he most often used the motif of a journey.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1989, Has was artistic director of the Rondo Film Studio and a member of the Polish State Cinema Committee. In 1989-1990, he served as dean of the directing department at the National Film School. In 1990, he became the school's provost and remained in this position for six years. He was the managing director and chief advisor at the school-affiliated Indeks Studio.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856125", "title": "Three Steles of Seth", "text": "Three Steles of Seth\n\nThe Three Steles of Seth is a 3rd-century Sethian Gnostic text from the New Testament apocrypha.\n\nThe main surviving copies come from the Nag Hammadi library, and were translated and explained by Paul Claude, member of the Nag Hammadi Research Group of the Faculty of Theology and Religious Studies, Université Laval (Quebec).\n\nThe text concerns a revelation to Dositheos about three steles (text written into specially created stones). Many scholars think that they are designed as liturgy.\n\nThe text is thought to be from the Sethian sect of Gnostics (the sect that viewed the biblical Seth as their hero, who was reincarnated as Jesus). Their other texts include the Apocalypse of Adam, Apocryphon of John, the Trimorphic Protennoia, and the Coptic Gospel of the Egyptians.\n\nThe text is thought to be a 3rd-century development of the Sethian Gnostics, as they became more separated from Christianity, and closer to Platonism.\n\n<br>The Three Steles (or Tablets) of Seth are in essence, three hymns written in adoration for the more abstract being, Barbelo, from the perspective of the archetype of Seth (“Emmakha Seth”) and his father Adam (or “Geradamas”)1. The Steles themselves were allegedly written by Emmakha Seth, a spiritual archetype of Seth, the son of Adam and Eve and founder of the gnostic race (Immovable race, Seed of Seth), and thus are considered pseudepigraphic. The famous historian of first century, Josephus mentions in his Antiquities 1, a story where Seth, Son of Adam, leaves some stone tablets inscribed with esoteric information for his future offspring high in the mountains. A very similar story is repeated in The Egyptian Gospel, and again in The Revelation of Adam. The Three Steles of Seth then, may possibly be an attempt of some unknown author to honor or verify this tradition. Whatever their author and origin might be, the originals no longer exist. The existing copy in the Cairo Coptic Museum was translated from Greek to Coptic sometime before A.D. 352. <br>\n\n<br>Stele one assumes the voice of Seth, and then of Seth together with Geradamas praising their respective creators. It is not entirely clear whether Hymn two is referring directly to the Barbelo or the “One”, though the title points to the Barbelo.<br>\n\n<br>The “foreign thing” here refers to the Invisible Parent, that is, the highest being in the gnostic mythology that the Barbelo was created from. A Sethian of the gnostic race would consider themselves a foreigner, born of foreigners (those within Seth’s immovable race). The actual lineage the author is likely referring to is that Adam, was derived from Barbelo, who resides over Adam, Seth, and the rest of the lower realms, while Barbelo itself was derived from the Invisible Parent. The word dissimilar was only partially preserved.<br> \n\n<br>Stele 2 assumes the collective voices of Seth and Geradams in praise of the Barbelo.<br>\n\n<br>The hymn focuses on the authority that the Barbelo has as well as its qualities including, vitality, goodness, blessedness, and understanding. <br>\n\n<br>Stele 3 assumes the collective voice of the immovable race of the Gnostics, offspring of Seth.<br>\n\n<br>Dositheus’s Directions for Use of the Hymns: The Mystical Ascent <br>\n"}
{"id": "1856136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856136", "title": "Long Island, Marlborough", "text": "Long Island, Marlborough\n\nLong Island is located in Queen Charlotte Sound, one of the Marlborough Sounds of New Zealand. James Cook recorded its original name as Hamote.\n\nThe island is long and thin - just over in area with a length of (the long axis being aligned north-east to south-west) and a maximum width of . It was reserved for public utility on 26 March 1926 and soon after became a farm which ran between 300 and 400 sheep until 14 January 1926 when the island became a scenic reserve. With the removal of stock in the 1930s the island has been left to regenerate back into native bush.\n\nIn April 1993, the Long Island-Kokomohua Marine reserve was created around Long island and the tiny Kokomohua islands off its northern tip. It extends offshore from the high water mark around the islands and was the first Marine reserve to be created in the South Island. The island itself is also an important wildlife refuge and a number of species of threatened endemic birds which have been reintroduced to it including little spotted kiwi (late 1980s), yellow-crowned parakeet (2001) and South Island saddleback (2005) - all these reintroductions have been successful with healthy breeding populations of each species now present on the Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856137", "title": "The Black Heart Procession", "text": "The Black Heart Procession\n\nThe Black Heart Procession (occasionally spelled The Blackheart Procession) is an American indie rock band from San Diego, California.\n\nThe band was formed in 1997 by Pall Jenkins (Mr. Tube and the Flying Objects, Palllap, Ugly Casanova and Three Mile Pilot) and Tobias Nathaniel (Three Mile Pilot). The group is often augmented by the contributions of Matt Resovich, Mario Rubalcaba, Jason Crane, Joe Plummer, Dmitri Dziensuwski, Jimmy LaValle and Matthew Parker. Jenkins has also produced The Drowning Men.\n\nThe band released the \"Blood Bunny / Black Rabbit\" EP in 2010. Pitchfork praised the two new tracks but felt the band had not expanded creatively since their album \"The Spell\".\n\nIn 2011, Jenkins played optigan, piano and sang on J Mascis's album \"Several Shades of Why\".\n\nIn June 2013, \"San Diego City Beat\" revealed the band was on hiatus. Jenkins said \"After years of touring and traveling and focusing on music, we decided just to kind of put an end to it for a while\".\n\nIn 2014, Jenkins played guitar and sang on J Mascis's album \"Tied to a Star\".\n\nIn 2016, the band reformed for two shows. In December of that year, they announced a European tour, with 27 shows all around the continent during March–April 2017.\n\nAlbums: \n\nSingles and EPs:\n\nCompilation appearances:\n\n"}
{"id": "1856138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856138", "title": "Harbottle", "text": "Harbottle\n\nHarbottle is a village and civil parish in Northumberland, England about south-east of the Scottish border, in the southeastern part of the Cheviot Hills and inside Northumberland National Park. The village is the site of Harbottle Castle built by order of Henry II. Now in ruins, the castle was constructed by the Umfraville family to protect against invaders from Scotland.\n\nHarbottle Castle is a ruinous medieval castle dated to the 12th century, situated at the west end of the village overlooking the River Coquet. It is a Scheduled Ancient Monument and a Grade I listed building.\n\nThe Drake Stone punctuates the hills surrounding Harbottle. The massive erratic sandstone boulder, believed in times past to be endowed with supernatural powers, was deposited by a glacier during the Ice Age. It has been compared to the Bowder Stone of Cumbria. Harbottle Lake is situated just behind the Drake Stone.\n\nHarbottle has a single small public house: The Star Inn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856139", "title": "KPSI-FM", "text": "KPSI-FM\n\nKPSI-FM is a commercial radio station located in Palm Springs, California, broadcasting on 100.5 FM. KPSI-FM airs a hot adult contemporary music format branded as \"Mix 100.5\". It is owned by Alpha Media, through Alpha Media Licensee LLC.\n\nKPSI-FM signed on June 13, 1980, originally broadcasting on 100.9 FM. At the time, the station aired a top 40/contemporary hit radio format branded as \"KPSI-101\" and later \"Power 101.\" In November 1991, the frequency was changed to 100.5. On March 19, 2002, KPSI-FM dropped the top 40 format in favor of its current hot adult contemporary music format and \"Mix 100.5\" branding.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856140", "title": "Angie (TV series)", "text": "Angie (TV series)\n\nAngie is an American sitcom television series that aired on ABC from February 8, 1979, to September 4, 1980. The series was created by Garry Marshall and Dale McRaven, and produced by Miller-Milkis Productions (Miller-Milkis-Boyett in season two) in association with Paramount Television.\n\nThe series starred Donna Pescow in the lead role, Robert Hays as her love interest and eventual husband, and Doris Roberts and Debralee Scott as her mother and sister, respectively.\n\nA DVD release of the series was announced in 2015, and was later changed and released on September 1, 2017 in Region 1.\n\nWorking class Italian American Philadelphia coffee shop waitress Angie Falco (Pescow) starts a romance with customer Bradley Benson (Hays), a pediatrician. While she assumes he is a struggling young doctor, he reveals that he is actually rebelling against his wealthy family, presumably residents in the Main Line region of the city's suburbs. (In response to Angie asking him just how wealthy, he replied, \"You've heard of 'filthy rich?' We're disgusting.\")\n\nThe other Falco family members are Angie's mother Theresa (Roberts) and her younger sister Marie (Scott). Angie and Marie's father had walked out on the family many years earlier, but Theresa continued to set a place for him at the dinner table. Brad's relatives consist of his stuffy father Randall (John Randolph), his divorced sister, the overbearing Joyce (Sharon Spelman), and Joyce's daughter Hillary (Tammy Lauren). Angie forms a close bond with Hillary.\n\nAngie and Brad later marry (they first eloped due to the arguments between their families over the wedding plans, but they would later have a small Catholic family wedding set up by Theresa), merging their two very different families: the blue-blooded suburban Bensons and the blue collar urban Italian-American Falcos. The characters of Hillary Benson and Didi Malloy were not continued after the first season. Angie and Theresa later open a beauty parlor together, where they had to contend with a pleasure-seeking hairstylist, Gianni (Tim Thomerson).\n\nThe series drew many comparisons to the CBS hit sitcom \"Rhoda\", in which the character of Angie Falco was seen as an Italian-Catholic version of Rhoda Morgenstern (Valerie Harper); both characters strove to break away from their ethnic, close-knit families to find their own voice in the world (however, Pescow, like the Rhoda character, is Jewish in real life). The constant presence of Angie's mother and sister was seen as similar to Rhoda's family setup of mother Ida (Nancy Walker) and sister Brenda (Julie Kavner). Angie's father being absent was also comparable to the later \"Rhoda\" plotline, in which Rhoda's father Martin (Harold Gould) separated from Ida.\n\nAngelina \"Angie\" Falco, later Angie Benson, is the title character. At first a waitress at the Liberty Coffee Shop in Philadelphia, she meets her prince charming, Brad Benson, M.D., who worked at the medical center across the street. At first, she thought he was a struggling young doctor, and would slip him Danish, but he would later reveal he was wealthy. Angie wasn't sure about dating him after he revealed who he was because of their economic differences, but he convinced her that he loved her. Angie then eloped with him, because of the families continual arguing about the wedding details, but she did concede to a small Catholic wedding set up by her mother. Brad eventually bought Angie the coffee shop to keep her busy, but she would later sell it to help Theresa buy a beauty salon.\n\nBradley Benson, M.D., is Angie's wealthy boyfriend and, later, her husband. A pediatrician at the medical center across from where Angie worked, the two fell in love immediately. They eloped due to arguments between the families about the wedding details, but he agreed to a small family Catholic wedding that was set up by Theresa. At first, he and Angie lived in his large home which he inherited from his parents, but it intimidated her, so they moved to a smaller duplex home nearby, where they had their living space upstairs and Brad saw his young patients downstairs.\n\nTheresa Falco is Angie's and Marie's mother. The owner of a news stand, which she ran for years after her husband deserted the family 19 years earlier. She remains in denial and still sets a place at the table for him. She loved Brad, and wanted to make sure that he loved Angie. It astonished, and indeed horrified, her that Angie had eloped with Brad, but she convinced her daughter to have a small Catholic family wedding which she had set up. In the second season, she sold the news stand, and, with Angie's help (by her selling the coffee shop she used to work at), bought a beauty salon called Rose's House of Beauty.\n\nMarie Falco is Theresa's younger daughter, and Angie's younger sister. She works nights at a day care center, and doesn't like it. She is kind of a klutz, but she is well-meaning.\n\nDiedre \"DiDi\" Malloy is Angie's loudmouthed best friend and co-worker at the Liberty Coffee Shop. She was not seen in the second season.\n\nJoyce Benson is Brad's snobby thrice-married older sister. She was seeing a psychiatrist about her third divorce, made all the more difficult because her psychiatrist hated her. The mother of Hillary, she did not hate Angie, but she did not like her either, because she felt Brad could have married someone of their own station, and she felt Angie was not worthy enough to marry her brother. However, she did try to get along with her, as she was the woman her brother chose to be his wife.\n\nHillary Benson is Joyce's daughter, who was not seen in the second season. She was happy about her uncle's marriage and she instantly bonded her new aunt.\n\nRandall Benson is Brad's and Joyce's father and Hillary's grandfather. He was, at first, stunned by Angie and her family, but he realized that she loved Brad and he loved her. He then began to like her and her family.\n\nPhipps (Emory Bass) is the Benson family butler. He liked Angie.\n\nGianni is the hair stylist at Rose's House of Beauty, the beauty salon that Angie and Theresa bought after they sold the newsstand and coffee shop. He was always chasing after his female clients to the annoyance of Angie and Theresa.\n\nMary Mary (Valri Bromfield); Mary Grace (Susan Duvall); and Mary Katherine (Nancy Lane) are three former school mates of Angie's. They were also her close friends.\n\nAlthough Thomas L. Miller, Robert L. Boyett, and Edward K. Milkis were the show's supervising producers for the second season, the show was produced by Miller-Milkis Productions at Paramount Television. \"Angie\" was also one of the few Miller-Milkis productions that did not take place in Miller's hometown of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nThe show's theme song, \"Different Worlds,\" was written by Norman Gimbel and Charles Fox and performed by Maureen McGovern. \"Different Worlds\" peaked at #18 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and spent two weeks at #1 on the \"Billboard\" adult contemporary chart, McGovern's only #1 on that chart.\n\nThe show was a ratings hit during its first half-season on air. It ranked fifth for the 1978–79 season with a 26.7 average household share, thanks in big part to Thursday night lead-in \"Mork & Mindy\", which ranked No. 3. All of the top-five shows in 1978–79 were ABC comedies, with the others \"Laverne & Shirley\" (No. 1), \"Three's Company\" (No. 2) and \"Happy Days\" (tying \"Mork & Mindy\" at No. 3).\n\nHowever, ratings for \"Angie\" dropped drastically after a move to Tuesday for the start of the 1979-80 season, even though the show was placed between \"Happy Days\" and \"Three's Company\". (ABC moved \"Laverne & Shirley\" in an effort to bolster ratings on other nights.) Viewers lost interest in the interplay between Angie and Brad after they were married in the season premiere, and many critics noted that much of the previously feisty chemistry that Pescow and Hays demonstrated on screen was apparently compromised once their characters were wed.\n\nThe show was cancelled in its second season. Thirty-six episodes in total were produced.\n\nVisual Entertainment released the complete series on DVD in Region 1 on September 1, 2017.\n\nReruns aired on ABC Daytime from June 17 to September 20, 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856141", "title": "Bulgarian cuisine", "text": "Bulgarian cuisine\n\nBulgarian cuisine () is a representative of the Mediterranean cuisine of Southeast Europe. It shares characteristics with other Balkan cuisines. Bulgarian cooking traditions are diverse because of geographical factors such as climatic conditions suitable for a variety of vegetables, herbs and fruit. Aside from the vast variety of local Bulgarian dishes.\n\nBulgarian food often incorporates salads as appetizers and is also noted for the prominence of dairy products, wines and other alcoholic drinks such as rakia. The cuisine also features a variety of soups, such as the cold soup tarator, and pastries, such as the filo dough based banitsa, pita and the various types of börek.\n\nMain courses are very typically water-based stews, either vegetarian or with lamb, goat meat, veal, chicken or pork. Deep-frying is not common, but grilling - especially different kinds of sausages - is very prominent. Pork is common, often mixed with veal or lamb, although fish and chicken are also widely used. While most cattle are bred for milk production rather than meat, veal is popular for grilling meat appetizers (meze) and in some main courses. As a substantial exporter of lamb, Bulgaria's own consumption is notable, especially in the spring.\n\nSimilarly to other Balkan cultures the per capita consumption of yogurt (Bulgarian: кисело мляко, \"kiselo mlyako, lit.\" \"sour milk\") among Bulgarians is traditionally higher than the rest of Europe. The country is notable as the historical namesake for \"Lactobacillus bulgaricus\", a microorganism chiefly responsible for the local variety of the dairy product.\n\nBulgarian cuisine shares a number of dishes with the Middle Eastern Cuisine as well as a limited number with the Indian, particularly Gujarat cuisine. The culinary exchange with the East started as early as the 7th century, when traders started bringing herbs and spices to the First Bulgarian Empire from India and Persia via the Roman and later Byzantine empires. This is evident from the wide popularity of dishes like moussaka, gyuvetch, kyufte and baklava, which are common in Middle Eastern cuisine today. White brine cheese called \"sirene\" (сирене), similar to feta, is also a popular ingredient used in salads and a variety of pastries.\n\nHolidays are often observed in conjunction with certain meals. On Christmas Eve, for instance, tradition requires vegetarian stuffed peppers and cabbage leaf sarmi, New Year's Eve usually involves cabbage dishes, Nikulden (Day of St. Nicholas, December 6) fish (usually carp), while Gergyovden (Day of St. George, May 6) is typically celebrated with roast lamb.\n\nAs in many areas of the Balkans that were formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, food in Bulgaria is influenced by Turkish cuisine and Ottoman cuisine—\"ayran\", \"baklava\", \"gyuvech\", and \"moussaka\" are all of Ottoman derivation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBulgaria has a strong tradition of using milk and dairy products. Bulgaria even has a namesake strain of bacteria used to make many of its cheeses and fermented foods which gives it a distinct in its flavor. This strain is called Lactobacillus bulgaricus.\n\n\nThe name Halva (халва) is used for several related varieties of the Middle Eastern dessert. Tahan/Tahini halva (тахан/тахини халва) is the most popular version, available in two different types with sunflower and with sesame seed. Traditionally, the regions of Yablanitsa and Haskovo are famous manufacturers of halva.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856144", "title": "Z/Architecture", "text": "Z/Architecture\n\nz/Architecture, initially and briefly called ESA Modal Extensions (ESAME), is IBM's 64-bit instruction set architecture implemented by its mainframe computers. IBM introduced its first z/Architecture-based system, the z900, in late 2000. Later z/Architecture systems include the IBM z800, z990, z890, System z9, System z10, zEnterprise 196, zEnterprise 114, zEC12, zBC12, z13, z14 and z15.\n\nz/Architecture retains backward compatibility with previous 32-bit-data/31-bit-addressing architecture ESA/390 and its predecessors all the way back to the 32-bit-data/24-bit-addressing System/360. The IBM z13 is the last z Systems server to support running an operating system in ESA/390 architecture mode. However, all 24-bit and 31-bit problem-state application programs originally written to run on the ESA/390 architecture will be unaffected by this change.\n\nEach z/OS address space, called a 64-bit address space, is 16 exabytes in size. A z/OS address space is 8 billion times the size of the former 2-gigabyte address space.\n\nMost operating systems, including z/OS, generally restrict code execution to the first 2 GB (31 address bits, or 2 addressable bytes) of each virtual address space for reasons of efficiency and compatibility rather than because of architectural limits. The z/OS implementation of the Java programming language is an exception. The z/OS's virtual memory implementation supports multiple 2 GB address spaces, permitting more than 2 GB of concurrently resident program code. The 64-bit version of Linux on IBM Z allows code to execute within 64-bit address ranges.\n\nFor programmers who need to store large amounts of data, the 64-bit address space usually suffices.\n\nApplications that need more than a 16 exabyte data address space can employ extended addressability techniques, using additional address spaces or data-only spaces. The data-only spaces that are available for user programs are called:\n\nThese spaces are similar in that both are areas of virtual storage that a program can create, and can be up to 2 gigabytes. Unlike an address space, a dataspace or hiperspace contains only user data; it does not contain system control blocks or common areas. Program code cannot run in a dataspace or a hiperspace.\n\nA dataspace differs from a hiperspace in that dataspaces are byte-addressable, whereas hiperspaces are page-addressable.\n\nTraditionally IBM Mainframe memory has been byte-addressable. This kind of memory is termed \"Central Storage\". IBM Mainframe processors through much of the 1980s and 1990s supported another kind of memory: Expanded Storage.\n\nExpanded Storage is 4KB-page addressable. When an application wants to access data in Expanded Storage it must first be moved into Central Storage. Similarly, data movement from Central Storage to Expanded Storage is done in multiples of 4KB pages. Initially page movement was performed using relatively expensive instructions, by paging subsystem code.\n\nThe overhead of moving single and groups of pages between Central and Expanded Storage was reduced with the introduction \nof the MVPG (Move Page) instruction and the ADMF (Asynchronous Data Mover Facility) capability.\n\nThe MVPG instruction and ADMF are explicitly invoked—generally by middleware in z/OS or z/VM (and ACP?)—to access data in expanded storage. Some uses are namely:\n\nUntil the mid-1990s Central and Expanded Storage were physically different areas of memory on the processor. Since the mid-1990s Central and Expanded Storage were merely assignment choices for the underlying processor memory.\nThese choices were made based on specific expected uses:\nFor example, Expanded Storage is required for the Hiperbatch function (which uses the MVPG instruction to access its hiperspaces).\n\nIn addition to the hiperspace and paging cases mentioned above there are other uses of expanded storage, including:\n\nz/OS removed the support for Expanded Storage. All memory in z/OS is now Central Storage. z/VM 6.4 fulfills Statement of Direction to drop support for all use of Expanded Storage.\n\nIBM described MVPG as \"moves a single page and the central processor cannot execute any other instructions until the page move is completed.\"\n\nThe MVPG mainframe instruction (MoVe PaGe, opcode X'B254') has been compared to the MVCL (MoVe Character Long) instruction, both of which can move more than 256 bytes within main memory using a single instruction. These instructions do not comply with definitions for atomicity, although they can be used as a single instruction within documented timing and non-overlap restrictions.\n\nThe need to move more than 256 bytes within main memory had historically been addressed with software (MVC loops), MVCL, which was introduced with the 1970 announcement of the System/370, and MVPG, patented and announced by IBM in 1989, each have advantages.\n\nADMF (Asynchronous Data Mover Facility), which was introduced in 1992, goes beyond the capabilities of the MVPG (Move Page) instruction, which is limited to a single page, and can move groups of pages between Central and Expanded Storage.\n\nA macro instruction named IOSADMF, which has been described as an API that avoids \"direct, low-level use of ADMF,\" can be used to read or write data to or from a hiperspace. Hiperspaces are created using DSPSERV CREATE.\n\nTo provide reentrancy, IOSADMF is used together with a \"List form\" and \"Execute form.\"\n\nThe z/VSE Version 4, z/TPF Version 1 and z/VM Version 5 operating systems, and presumably their successors, require z/Architecture.\n\nz/Architecture supports running multiple concurrent operating systems and applications even if they use different address sizes. This allows software developers to choose the address size that is most advantageous for their applications and data structures.\n\nPlatform Solutions Inc. (PSI) previously marketed Itanium-based servers which were compatible with z/Architecture. IBM bought PSI in July 2008, and the PSI systems are no longer available. FLEX-ES, zPDT and the Hercules emulator also implement z/Architecture. Hitachi mainframes running newer releases of the VOS3 operating system implement ESA/390 plus Hitachi-unique CPU instructions, including a few 64-bit instructions. While Hitachi was likely inspired by z/Architecture, and formally collaborated with IBM on the z900-G2/z800 CPUs introduced in 2002, Hitachi's machines are not z/Architecture-compatible.\n\nOn July 7, 2009, IBM on occasion of announcing a new version of one of its operating systems implicitly stated that Architecture Level Set 4 (ALS 4) exists, and is implemented on the System z10 and subsequent machines. The ALS 4 is also specified in LOADxx as ARCHLVL 3, whereas the earlier z900, z800, z990, z890, System z9 specified ARCHLVL 2. Earlier announcements of System z10 simply specified that it implements z/Architecture with some additions: 50+ new machine instructions, 1 MB page frames, and hardware decimal floating point unit (HDFU).\n\n"}
{"id": "1856146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856146", "title": "Dositheos (Samaritan)", "text": "Dositheos (Samaritan)\n\nDositheos (occasionally also known as Nathanael, both meaning \"gift of God\") was a Samaritan religious leader, founder of a Samaritan sect often assumed to be gnostic in nature. He is reputed to have known John the Baptist, and been either a teacher of a rival of Simon Magus.\n\nDositheos probably lived in the first century CE. According to Pseudo-Tertullian, he was the first to deny the Prophets, a heresy that gave rise to the party of the Sadducees. Jerome gives the same account. Hippolytus begins his enumeration of the 32 heresies by mentioning Dositheos; hence the sect is made to appear older than the Sadducees, and on the heresy is based the system of Philaster. He was not mentioned by the two early patristic authors Justin Martyr or Irenaeus.\n\nThe Samaritan chronicler Abu al-Fatḥ of the fourteenth century, who used reliable native sources, places the origin of the Dosithean sect in the time before Alexander the Great. The rabbinical sources also contain obscure references to Dositheos and Sabbæus as the two founders respectively of the Samaritan sects of the Dositheans and Sabuæans. These have been identified with the Samaritans Sabbæeus and Theodosius, of whom Josephus relates that they defended before the Egyptian king Ptolemæus Philometor, against Andronicus, the advocate of the Jews, the sanctity of Mt. Gerizim.\n\nThe Samaritan chronicles (the \"Book of Joshua\" and Abu al-Fath's \"Annales\") recount a similar discussion between Zerubbabel and Sanballat. As Josephus says that the Samaritans had two advocates, he doubtless meant the two apostles Dositheus and Sabbæus, whose doctrine, including the sanctity of Mt. Gerizim, rejection of the prophetical books of the Old Testament and denial of the resurrection, was on the whole identical with that of the Samaritans.\n\nAccording to Hegesippus, Dositheus lived later than Simon Magus, the first heresiarch of the Church; other authors speak of him as the teacher of Simon, at the same time confounding him with Simon Magus, connecting his name with Helena, and stating that he was the \"being\". Origen says that Dositheus pretended to be the Christ (Messiah), applying to himself, and he compares him with Theudas and Judas the Galilean. Origen also says that Dositheus' disciples pretended to possess books by him, and related concerning him that he never suffered death, but was still alive. To this must be compared the story of Epiphanius regarding his death by starvation in a cave. Epiphanius adds that while some of the Dositheans lead loose lives, others preserve a rigid morality, refrain from the use of meat, observe the rite of circumcision, and are very strict in keeping the Sabbath and in observing the laws of Levitical purity. These statements may, however, refer to another Dositheus, who belonged to the Encratites.\n\nOrigen says that the Dositheans were never in a flourishing state and that in his time, they had almost entirely disappeared, scarcely thirty of them being left. The Midrash, however, speaks of Dositheans, with whom Rabbi Meir had dealings, and two names, \"Dosion and Dosthion,\" are also mentioned, which either refer to two Dosithean sectarians or form a double designation for the heretic Dositheus. Yet the fact that the patriarch Eulogius of Alexandria (who probably lived 582-603) disputed successfully against the Samaritan followers of Dostan (Δοσϑήν) or Dositheus, and wrote a work expressly against them (Photius, \"Bibliotheca,\" cod. 230), shows that the Dositheans existed and even exercised a certain power in the sixth century. Origen possibly refers to a Christian sect of the Dositheans, who in fact left no traces, while the Samaritan sect certainly continued to exist. In Egypt especially, the sect was probably numerous enough to induce the Christian patriarch of Alexandria to engage in polemics against it.\n\nThe Pseudo-Clementine \"Recognitions\" and \"Homilies\" tells how Dositheos, by spreading a false report of Simon Magus' death, succeeded in installing himself as head of his sect. Simon on coming back thought it better to dissemble, and, pretending friendship for Dositheus, accepted the second place. Soon, however, he began to hint to the thirty that Dositheus was not as well acquainted as he might be with the doctrines of the school.\n\nIn Egypt the Arabic writers may have become acquainted with the Dositheans, though some may have survived also in Syria and Palestine, as is evident from the rabbinical sources. Al-Masudi, of the tenth century, says that the Samaritans were divided into two sects, that of the Kushan, or ordinary Samaritans (=\"Kuthim\"), and that of the Dostan (Dositheans; compare Δοσϑήν). Al-Shahrastani calls them \"Kusaniyyah\" and \"Dusitaniyyah.\" Abu al-Fatḥ says of the Dostan, the Samaritan Dositheans, that they abolished the festivals instituted by the Mosaic law, as well as the astronomical tables, counting thirty days in every month, without variation. It reminds one of the Sadducees, and is a further proof that the Dositheans were their spiritual descendants. The statement that the festivals were abolished, probably means that the Dositheans celebrated them on other days than the Jews; but as, according to a trustworthy statement of Epiphanius, the Dositheans celebrated the festivals together with the Pharisaic Jews, an approximation may well be assumed toward the Karaites, a sect with which the Samaritans had much in common in later times. The determination of the months by means of the testimony of witnesses may also have been a Karaite custom although that practise may go back to a time before the opposite view of the Pharisees existed.\n\nUnder the Abbasid califs the Samaritans persecuted the Dositheans, although they themselves had to suffer much. Under Ibrahim (218-227 of the Hegira) the synagogue of the Samaritans and Dositheans at Nablus was burned by heretics, but it was subsequently rebuilt. Yusuf ibn Dasi, governor of Palestine, entirely forbade the worship of the Dositheans; and the sect may in consequence have been absorbed by the Samaritans.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856149", "title": "Clube Atlético Hermann Aichinger", "text": "Clube Atlético Hermann Aichinger\n\nClube Atlético Hermann Aichinger, or Atlético Ibirama as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Ibirama in Santa Catarina, founded on September 20, 1951. The club competed in the Brazilian Championship Third Level in 2004 and 2005.\n\nClube Atlético Hermann Aichinger was founded on September 20, 1951, succeeding Sociedade Desportiva Industrial, a team created in July 1944. The foundation meeting occurred at Geraldo Stoll Bar. The club's first president was Alberto Lessa, and both the club's football field and head office were rented. It is named after Hermann Aichinger, who donated the groundplot where the club's field and headquarters were built.\n\nIn 2004, Hermann Aichinger competed in the Brazilian Championship Third Level, reaching the third stage of the competition.\n\nHome stadium is the \"Estádio Hermann Aichinger\", which is commonly known as \"Estádio da Baixada\". It has a maximum capacity of 6,000 spectators. Record attendance was on April 17, 2005, when 6,022 spectators saw in the decisive match for the State Championship the 0-1 defeat against Criciúma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856152", "title": "KIIS-FM", "text": "KIIS-FM\n\nKIIS-FM (pronounced \"Kiss FM\") (102.7 MHz, \"102.7 KIIS FM\") is a commercial FM radio station which is licensed to Los Angeles, California and broadcasts to the Greater Los Angeles area. The station airs a contemporary hit radio (CHR) or \"top 40\" format. Owned by iHeartMedia, KIIS-FM is the origin of the KISS-FM brand and serves as the flagship station for the radio program \"On Air with Ryan Seacrest\". The KIIS-FM studios are located in Burbank, while the station transmitter resides on Mount Wilson north of Los Angeles.\n\nBesides a standard analog transmission, KIIS-FM broadcasts over two HD Radio channels including \"Evolution\" on its HD2 subchannel, featuring an all-dance music format; streams online via iHeartRadio; and extends its on-air signal by using a single full-power repeater, KVVS (105.5 FM) in Rosamond, California. The station also simulcasts over channel 11 on Sirius XM satellite radio. KIIS-FM has consistently been rated the number-one radio station in the Los Angeles/Orange County and Ventura County markets, averaging nearly one million listeners.\n\nKIIS-FM is one of two top 40 stations in the Los Angeles area, the other being KAMP-FM (97.1 FM), owned by Entercom.\n\nThe station at the 102.7 FM frequency first signed on in 1948 as KLAC-FM, a sister station to KLAC. It was a simulcast of the AM station until the late 1960s, when the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) banned continuous AM/FM simulcasts for over half of the broadcast day. KLAC-FM started its own separate programming consisting of a middle of the road music format in 1967, changing its call letters to KRHM. The MOR format existed for four years.\n\nKRHM changed its call sign to KKDJ and flipped to top 40 on April 15, 1971. The format lasted until 1975, when Combined Communications purchased KKDJ. The station's format was changed to adult contemporary on October 22, 1975 at 6:00 a.m., during Charlie Tuna's morning show when KKDJ began simulcasting with KIIS 1150 AM with an on-air mock wedding, with KKDJ \"marrying\" KIIS. Meanwhile, KKDJ's call letters were changed to KIIS-FM. The spelling of \"K-I-I-S\" instead of KISS was because it resembled the AM frequency: \"1150\"=\"IIS\". The new merged station was referred to as, \"AM and FM, K-double-I-S.\"\n\nMaking the transition from KKDJ to KIIS-FM were popular personalities including Humble Harve, Jay Stevens, John Peters, Danny Martinez, and Charlie Tuna. Tuna, an iconic voice of Los Angeles radio, served as both program director and morning show host for KKDJ and KIIS-FM at the transition; he died in February 2016. In 1977, KIIS-FM hired Gary McKenzie as its news director; later, he went on to anchor at RKO Radio Networks and CBS. The AM and FM stations did simulcasts during the day while returning to two separate stations in the evening hours.\n\nUnable to draw high ratings with adult contemporary, KIIS-FM began to evolve, first to top 40 in 1976, then dance and disco music in 1978, and back to top 40 in 1980. KIIS AM would keep its soft rock/AC format until late 1979. Just prior to this, Gannett Company purchased both the KIIS-AM-FM station pair and Combined Communications. In 1981, the format of KIIS AM was changed to religious talk and new call letters KPRZ were adopted.\n\nRick Dees joined the station for mornings in July 1981 after KHJ switched formats to country music. Fill-in personality Dave Sebastian (Williams), working both the AM and FM stations at the time, hosted the vacated FM morning show until the arrival of Dees due to a non-compete clause in his contract. With Dees in mornings, KIIS became a CHR powerhouse in Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1985, KIIS returned to a Top 40 format and simulcasted KIIS-FM morning and afternoon shows, while all other day parts had different disc jockeys. The simulcast continued until 1997, when KIIS AM flipped to Sports Talk as KXTA, simulcasting with XETRA-AM Tijuana/San Diego until 2005.\n\nIn 1996, in a deal in which Gannett acquired WTSP television in the Tampa, Florida market from Jacor, KIIS-AM-FM was acquired by Jacor/Citicasters, which in 1998, merged into Clear Channel Communications (now iHeartMedia). After Clear Channel's acquisition of KAVS (now KVVS) and KYHT (now KLXB), the two stations abandoned their previous format as \"High Desert Modern Rock 97.7 & 105.3\" and together began serving as repeaters for KIIS-FM. Another simulcast, KIIS (1220 AM) in Santa Clarita, was added in 1999, as well as KFMS (101.9 FM) in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nThe grouping of KIIS-FM in Los Angeles, KIIS (1220 AM) in Santa Clarita, KAVS (97.7 FM) in the Antelope Valley, KYHT (105.3) in Barstow/Victor Valley, and KFMS (101.9) in Las Vegas created nearly continuous coverage of KIIS-FM between Los Angeles and Las Vegas. (KFMS in Las Vegas was branded as \"KISS\" instead of \"KIIS\".) However, this regional network was short-lived as KYHT broke its simulcast off in 2001 to become a repeater for KZXY. Resulting from KYHT's flip from the KIIS-FM moniker, KFMS switched to all local programming. KAVS was relocated from 97.7 to 105.5 in December 2007 and adopted the call sign KVVS. KIIS 1220 AM became KHTS in 2003. KIIS-FM has also been simulcast on 850 AM in Thousand Oaks, California in the last year before that station's towers were demolished.\n\nIn February 2004, the decade-long general manager of KIIS-FM, Roy Laughlin, elected not to renew Rick Dees' contract, replacing him with Ryan Seacrest's \"On Air\" show and retaining co-host Ellen K to team with Seacrest. Together they created the nationally syndicated On-Air With Ryan Seacrest which airs on many of iHeartMedia's CHR/top 40 stations.\nKIIS was named the 2007 \"Station of the Year\" in the contemporary hit/radio/top 40 category for market size 1 to 25 at the national \"Radio & Records\" convention.\n\nIn December 2007, KIIS's Antelope Valley simulcast at 97.7 was moved to 105.5, replacing the previous format as \"105.5 The Oasis\". The country music format at 103.1 FM in Tehachapi, California was moved to 97.7 FM (now operating under 103.1's former call letters KTPI) and is now branded as 97.7 KTPI. KSRY (103.1 FM) in Tehachapi became a simulcast of KYSR (98.7 FM, \"Alt 98-7\").\n\nThe station was, according to \"Radio & Records\" in 2008, the United States' second-highest revenue billing radio station (behind WTOP-FM in Washington, D.C.), with $66.3 million. In 2010, the station was honored by the National Association of Broadcasters with the Marconi award for CHR Station of the Year.\n\nOn June 8, 2011, KIIS-FM began rebroadcasting on Sirius XM channel 11. Since the end of 2003, Clear Channel had replaced the KIIS simulcast with an exclusive KISS XM channel. In 2004, all XM music channels went commercial-free, and KIIS-FM was replaced with a unique-to-XM KISS-XM channel, retaining the same format. Since then, Clear Channel/iHeartMedia has regained the right to air commercials on their XM music channels.\n\nIn May 2017, Seacrest became co-host of the New York City-based syndicated talk show \"Live with Kelly\". To accommodate the new role, it was announced that Seacrest would begin to host \"On Air\" from a studio constructed at the facilities of WABC-TV (where \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\" is produced). The show continues to air live, although the first hour will either be pre-recorded or handled mostly by co-host Sisanie.\n\nOn January 3, 2020, it was announced that midday host Alex had exited the station after 6 years. Her successor has not been formally nominated. This was later followed by DJ Drew on January 16, 2020 as a result of a series of nationwide layoffs by iHeartMedia.\n\nAs of July 2019 KIIS has seven Rhythmic stations in Southern California, KIIS competes with CHR rival KAMP-FM (97.1 AMP), Rhythmic contemporary hip hop station KPWR (Power 106) (105.9 FM), urban contemporary hip hop sister crosstown station rival KRRL (Real 92.3), Classic hip hop station KDAY (93.5 KDAY), KGGI KIIS’s sister station in Riverside, CA. Also, they have competed with its new Rhythmic rival KLLI (Cali 93.9), and Top 40 rival KVYB in Santa Barbara.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856154", "title": "Under Suspicion (2000 film)", "text": "Under Suspicion (2000 film)\n\nUnder Suspicion is a 2000 American-French thriller film directed by Stephen Hopkins and starring Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman, Monica Bellucci and Thomas Jane. The film is based on the 1981 French film \"Garde à vue\" and the 1970s British novel \"Brainwash\", written by John Wainwright. It was screened out of competition at the 2000 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nWealthy tax attorney Henry Hearst (Hackman) is about to give a speech at an exclusive fundraising party in San Juan, Puerto Rico, as the city celebrates the San Sebastián Festival. He is called to the police station to be questioned about the body he found the day before — that of a young girl who had been raped and murdered. Hearst changes his version of events several times; Captain Victor Benezet (Freeman) and Detective Felix Owens (Jane) question him about inconsistencies in his story. Hearst quickly realizes that they think he committed the murder, as well as that of another young girl whose body was found days earlier, but at this stage of questioning he is unalarmed. Benezet is under pressure from his boss (Miguel Ángel Suárez) to free Hearst so that he can give his speech. As there is no conclusive proof, Benezet has to let him go.\n\nAt the party, a crowd is gossiping and Chantal (Bellucci), Hearst's much younger wife, has to keep her face emotionless. She is questioned later about why she and her husband sleep in separate rooms. Little by little, the story that each of them tells changes, always casting Hearst in a worse light.\n\nHearst first blames Chantal for being jealous. Then, it is discovered he likes cheap, very young prostitutes and visits pornography websites featuring barely legal women. Hearst says that Chantal and her brother-in-law, artist Paco Rodriguez (Luis Caballero), are lovers. Chantal says that she saw Hearst with her 13-year-old niece Camille (Isabel Algae), giving her presents and trying to seduce her. She also says that on the night of one of the recent murders she saw her husband washing his blood-stained clothes at night. Hearst adamantly denies molesting Camille, but admits that he has a fondness for younger women.\n\nChantal, the legal owner of the mansion where they live, permits the police to search the premises for hard evidence linking her husband to the murders. In the dark room, they find photographs of the two murdered girls. When the photographs are shown to him at the police station, Henry says that he can't believe Chantal would go this far.\n\nShortly thereafter, Hearst, perhaps due to the realization that his wife thinks he's guilty of the murders and the resulting meaningless as to his own existence, confesses to the murder of the little girl whose body he had previously claimed to find. Just then, while still recording Hearst's confession, detectives are notified that the real killer has been arrested, having been \"caught in the act.\" Benezet and Owens free Hearst, who is still badly shaken by what he has gone through in the previous hours. Chantal attempts to connect with him outside the police station, but he cannot forgive her for turning on him and believing him capable of the murders, and walks away into the crowd of New Year's Eve revelers.\n\n\nBased on 45 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, 49% of critics gave \"Under Suspicion\" a positive review, with an average rating of 5.3/10.\n\nThe film was given limited release to only 19 theaters in North America, grossing a total of $334,245 during its theatrical run. The film was also given limited release internationally, grossing $752,783 in Mexico, $17,222 in Taiwan and $277,675 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe film was nominated by the Mystery Writers of America for the 2001 Edgar Award for Best Motion Picture.\n"}
{"id": "1856165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856165", "title": "The Magnificent Seven (professional wrestling)", "text": "The Magnificent Seven (professional wrestling)\n\nThe Magnificent Seven was a villainous professional wrestling stable in World Championship Wrestling (WCW). It debuted on January 14, 2001, and disbanded on March 21, 2001.\n\nThe \"Magnificent Seven\" was formed and led by the on-screen CEO of WCW Ric Flair in January-March 2001 in WCW. The group included WCW World Heavyweight Champion Scott Steiner and his valet, Midajah, his brother WCW United States Heavyweight Champion Rick Steiner, Jeff Jarrett, Lex Luger, Buff Bagwell and Road Warrior Animal. Flair and Luger had previously been stablemates in the Four Horsemen in 1987 and tag team partners in Team Package the previous year, while Jarrett was a former member of the Horsemen with Flair in 1997.\n\nThe group formed at the Sin pay-per-view on January 14, 2001. Scott Steiner was defending his title in a four-way match that included Sid Vicious, Jarrett and an unnamed wrestler. Flair inserted Animal as the mystery man and recruited Jarrett so Steiner could keep his title. However, none of it was needed as Sid broke his leg when he came off the ropes for a move. The next night on \"Nitro\", Flair revealed all of this as a plan, announcing the creation of the stable which he named \"The Elite\". That prompted The Insiders (Kevin Nash and Diamond Dallas Page) and Rick Steiner to come out and confront the group as Nash challenged Scott Steiner to a title match. WCW's Commissioner, Ernest Miller, came out and booked the title match, which ended in a disqualification as both sides interfered. On the following episode \"Thunder\", Miller booked Totally Buffed in a match against KroniK, which they won after Jarrett interfered. DDP came to help and Flair booked him and Jarrett to fight in the main event. That match ended in no contest as Nash, KroniK, Miller, Scott Steiner, Luger, Bagwell and Animal interfered. On a special Tuesday Nitro, Nash demanded a title shot against Steiner at SuperBrawl Revenge, which Flair agreed to if Nash will defeat Buff that night. Miller booked a match between Luger and DDP, where the winner will ref the Nash-Buff match, and banned Buff and Nash from interfering in that match. Luger won the match after Jarrett hit DDP with a guitar. Nash won his match after DDP knocked Luger out and counted the pin with Luger's hand, prompting a big brawl in the ring. The next edition of Thunder, KroniK fought against Steiner and Animal and won. A brawl ensued after the match, while Nash and DDP were knocked out in their locker room after an attack earlier that night.\n\nOn the following episode of \"Nitro\", Flair stripped Nash of his title shot due to him \"laying down\" at \"Thunder\". Flair agreed to let Nash one more chance to get his title shot if he would have defeat Totally Buffed that night. That same night, Flair had Animal team with WCW Cruiserweight Champion Chavo Guerrero, Jr. for his matches against other cruiserweights. Flair also signed Dustin Rhodes to a contract, and after he had Animal attacking Rhodes, until Dusty Rhodes came to his son's rescue. Jarrett and DDP fought and Jarrett won by a count out, and Nash defeated Totally Buffed to get his title shot. The next edition of Thunder, Rick Steiner defeated Jarrett and Totally Buffed defeated KroniK. On the next episode of \"Nitro\", Nash choked Flair in order to make him put Miller in charge that night. Miller booked Steiner in a cruiserweight 4-on-1 handicap match (Which Steiner won), against DDP (Which DDP won) and against Nash and a mystery partner in a handicap match for the title. The Cat then added a stipulation where if Steiner will lose his title, Flair will have to resign his post. Nash choose the new United States Heavyweight Champion Rick Steiner as his partner, only for Steiner to turn on him and join his brother. The next Thunder, Flair named his stable \"The Magnificent Seven\" for the first time. Brian Adams defeated Lex Luger, and the Insiders defeated the Steiner Brothers. On the February 12 episode of \"Nitro\", Ric Flair suspended Dustin Rhodes and booked Miller against Lance Storm for the Commissionership where Storm won. However, Nash held David Flair hostage and blackmailed Ric into booking a rematch between Miller and Storm at Superbrawl, and booking a match between Dustin Rhodes and Rick Steiner, where if Dustin would win, he would get reinstated and Nash would get a title shot against Steiner. Flair relented. Dustin won his match and Nash got his title shot. However, Steiner got disqualificated after the Magnificent Seven interfered and attacked Nash would a lead pipe. This prompted DDP, Brian Adams, Hugh Morrus and Dustin Rhodes to attack the Steiners and Jarrett at Thunder, but it ended with Scott Steiner attacking a security man. At Superbrawl, Rick Steiner defended his United States Heavyweight Championship against Dustin Rhodes, Totally Buffed defeated KroniK to get a tag titles shot, Ernest Miller won his commissioner job back from Lance Storm, and DDP defeated Jarrett after he lost an impromptu match to Chris Kanyon before the match. Before the main event, Flair declared that the loser of the match would retire. Nash came in a wheelchair as Steiner taunted him, Nash revealed he wasn't really injured, hit Steiner with the belt and pinned him, seemingly winning the title. Flair turned the match into a two-out-of-three-falls match. Later, Steiner hit Nash with the lead pipe outside the ring as Flair made the match a falls count anywhere match and Steiner pinned Nash to tie the score. During the final fall, Midajah and Flair interfered, allowing Steiner to hit Nash with a steel chair, and winning the match with the Steiner Recliner, thus retiring Nash.\n\nThe next night on \"Nitro\", the group did a funeral for Nash, and DDP challenged Steiner to a match at Greed. On the same night, Jarrett and Flair started a feud with the Rhodes Family with Jarrett imitating Dusty. DDP defeated Kanyon in order to get a title shot at Greed. The following week, Booker T made his return after being injured by Steiner to save DDP from the Steiner Brothers. During the next episode of \"Thunder\", Booker T got Scott in a non-title match, only for Rick Steiner to interfere. On the March 5 episode of \"Nitro\", Booker challenged Rick to a United States Championship match, that was ended with an interference from both DDP and Scott; leading to a tag team main event match that ended with a beat-down by Scott on DDP. That same night, Jarrett defeated Dusty Rhodes and after a post-match beatdown, Flair and Jarrett challenged the Rhodes family to a tag match at Greed. On the March 12 episode of \"Nitro\", Midajah was found knocked out in the backstage, and it was implied that Bagwell did it. During the next episode of \"Thunder\", Bagwell found Animal knocked out in the backstage with a writing on the wall that said \"It wasn't him\". At Greed, Booker won the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship from Rick Steiner, Dusty Rhodes pinned Ric Flair in the tag match (and per match's stipulation, Flair had to kiss Rhodes' butt), and Steiner defeated DDP in a falls count anywhere match to retain his title. During that same night, Bagwell was found laid out backstage.\n\nThe next night on \"Nitro\", Booker T confronted Scott Steiner, and by orders of Eric Bischoff, it was booked that the two would face each other next week in a title vs title match. The same night, Luger was found laid out as well. At the end of that night, the Rhodes family managed to make Flair kiss a donkey's ass,which read \"Dusty's ass\". On the next episode of \"Thunder\", Flair booked Dustin against both Scott and Jarrett, where Steiner won with his lead pipe only for Booker to make the save. Before the match, Flair was found laid out in his locker room. However, the storyline was aborted after Vince McMahon purchased WCW.\n\nThe group broke up before the final episode of \"Nitro\", where Booker won the WCW World Heavyweight Championship from Steiner.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856167", "title": "Decalin", "text": "Decalin\n\nDecalin (decahydronaphthalene, also known as bicyclo[4.4.0]decane and sometimes decaline), a bicyclic organic compound, is an industrial solvent. A colorless liquid with an aromatic odor, it is used as a solvent for many resins or fuel additives. It is the saturated analog of naphthalene and can be prepared from it by hydrogenation in the presence of a catalyst. Decahydronaphthalene easily forms explosive organic peroxides upon storage in the presence of air.\n\nDecahydronaphthalene occurs in \"cis\" and \"trans\" forms. The \"trans\" form is energetically more stable because of fewer steric interactions. \"cis\"-Decalin is a chiral molecule without a chiral center; it has a two-fold rotational symmetry axis, but no reflective symmetry. However, the chirality is canceled through a chair-flipping process that turns the molecule into its mirror image.\n\nThe only possible way to join the two six-membered rings in the \"trans\" position means the second ring needs to start from two equatorial bonds (blue) of the first ring. A six-membered ring does not offer sufficient space to start out on an axial position (upwards), and reach the axial position of the neighboring carbon atom, which then will be on the downwards side of the molecule (see the model of cyclohexane in figure 5). The structure is conformationally frozen, rather than having the ability to undergo the chair flip as in the \"cis\" isomer. In biology this fixation is widely used in the steroid skeleton to construct molecules (such as figure 6) that play a key role in the signalling between distantly separated cells.\n\nOxygenation of decalin give the tertiary hydroperoxide, which rearranges to cyclodecenone, a precursor to sebacic acid.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856169", "title": "Simon Moore (writer)", "text": "Simon Moore (writer)\n\nSimon Moore is a British screenwriter, director, and playwright. He is best known as writer for the 1989 six-part BBC miniseries about the international illegal drug trade, \"Traffik\", the basis for the 2000 American crime film \"Traffic\" and the 2004 three-part USA network miniseries by the same name. He is also known as writer and director of the 1991 film noir \"Under Suspicion\", as writer of the 1995 cult Western \"The Quick and the Dead\", and as co-writer of the Disney ABC miniseries, \"Dinotopia\". As playwright, he adapted Stephen King's novel \"Misery\" for the stage, with the play premiering in London's West End theatre in 1992 and revived in London in 2005. Moore lives in Los Angeles, California. \n"}
{"id": "1856174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856174", "title": "Oswaldo Sánchez", "text": "Oswaldo Sánchez\n\nOswaldo Javier Sánchez Ibarra (; born September 21, 1973) is a former Mexican footballer, who played as a goalkeeper. Sánchez is highly regarded as one of the best goalkeepers in Mexican football history. He has 99 caps for Mexico. He was on the cover of the North American edition of FIFA Football 2005.\n\nOswaldo Sánchez debuted as a substitute when the starting keeper was injured with Club Atlas at the age of 20 on October 30, 1993 against CD Veracruz where the teams tied the game at 1–1. Two years after his debut, he was a starter on the team and led Atlas to the Quarterfinals where they were eliminated by CD Veracruz. In the summer of 1996, Sánchez was transferred to Club América. The following season, Sánchez was benched and replaced as goalkeeper by Hugo Pineda. Sánchez played three out of 19 games, including the quarterfinals where América was eliminated by Monarcas Morelia. The following season, Sánchez went back into the starting line-up and led América. In the summer of 1999, Sánchez left América for rival Chivas de Guadalajara.\n\nAt Guadalajara, Sánchez became the team's captain. Sánchez became a key player to Chivas along with other players. This was during the time when Guadalajara were at their best. Sánchez's extraordinary goalkeeping skills and leadership helped Guadalajara reach the finals of the Clausura 2004 season, but Chivas ultimately lost to UNAM via penalty-shootout. Eventually, Sánchez captured his long-awaited league title with Guadalajara during the Apertura 2006 season. Sánchez scored a goal in the 2000 Copa Merconorte match against Club Deportivo El Nacional of Ecuador.\n\nIn 2007, he signed a contract onto Santos Laguna and he has played against his ex-team and ex-team members Chivas de Guadalajara in a 3-2 loss. In the first season with Santos, he led them to the Quarterfinals of the Clausura 2007 tournament. He also led his team to 2nd place in the both Apertura and Clausura 2010. Sanchez led the team to win the Clausura 2008 championship and Clausura 2012.\n\nAfter 21 years, Sánchez retired after the Apertura 2014 season winning the Copa MX in his final season.\n\nIn 2016, Santos Laguna erected a statue of Oswaldo Sánchez.\n\nSánchez played for the Mexican Youth National team in 1993's international FIFA World Youth Championship in Australia Coached by Juan de Dios Castillo.\nSánchez has also constantly been called up to play for the Mexico national team since his debut in 1996, against Bolivia. He has been part of three FIFA World Cups, in France 1998, 2002 and 2006. Argentine Coach Ricardo La Volpe called up Sánchez once again on April 2, 2006, to be the starting goalkeeper for Mexico in the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany. During preparation for the 2006 World Cup, Sánchez' father died of a heart attack on June 7, age 56. Sánchez flew home to Guadalajara, but he returned to Germany in time for the team's first game against Iran, which they won by a score of 3-1.\n\nIn 2007, he was called up once again by new coach Hugo Sanchez to play for Selección de fútbol de México (Mexico national team) in the Gold Cup and 2007 Copa América. Sánchez was selected to represent Mexico in friendlies against Ghana national team and China national team, his first callup since the 2007 Copa América.\n\nSanchez was not called up to the World Cup 2010 and did not play a single match for the Mexico national team in 2010. He played his 99th and last international match for Mexico on October 11, 2011 in a 2–1 loss to Brazil. He was substituted by Alfredo Talavera in the 88th minute, marking his official national football retirement.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856175", "title": "Fender Mustang", "text": "Fender Mustang\n\nThe Fender Mustang is a solid body electric guitar produced by the Fender Musical Instruments Corporation. It was introduced in 1964 as the basis of a major redesign of Fender's student models, the Musicmaster and Duo-Sonic. It was produced until 1982 and reissued in 1990.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Mustang attained cult status largely as a result of its use by a number of alternative rock bands. Early examples are generally seen as the most collectible of all the short-scale Fender guitars.\n\nThe Mustang features two single-coil pickups, an unusual pickup switching configuration, and a unique vibrato system. It was originally available in two scale lengths (24 or 22.5 in).\n\nThe Mustang has an offset waist, reminiscent of the Jazzmaster, but its overall styling closely followed the existing student models the Musicmaster and Duo-Sonic, the slight waist offset being the main change. After the release of the Mustang, the Musicmaster and Duo-Sonic were redesigned using the Mustang body; These were branded the Musicmaster II and Duo-Sonic II, but the decals were not consistently applied.\n\nAll three Mustang-bodied models (Mustang, Musicmaster II and Duo-Sonic II) were offered with the optional, 21 fret 22.5-inch (or 3/4 scale) neck, or a 22 fret 24-inch neck, but the 24-inch was overwhelmingly more popular and 3/4 scale examples are rare. A 24-inch scale is still relatively short, the same as the Fender Jaguar but a full inch and a half shorter than the Stratocaster and three-quarters of an inch shorter than the Gibson Les Paul. The short scale may make playing easier for people with small hands, and also lowers string tension at the same tuning pitch, making string bending easier.\n\nThis short scale, combined with a unique and extremely direct tremolo arm would make the Mustang a cult guitar in the 1990s. Before that, its relatively low cost and marketing as a student guitar made it an obvious candidate for aftermarket upgrades, particularly pickup changes and also amateur finishes. Its wiring with the original pickups also lent itself to custom modifications.\n\nIn 1966 Fender issued the Fender Mustang Bass. A new bass body was designed for this with a similar offset body style to the Mustang guitar, and a short (30-inch) scale was used.\n\nIn 1969 Fender released the \"Competition\" Mustang with a \"racing stripe\" paint job and painted headstocks. Body contours were also added at this time. The Competition Mustangs came in Competition Red, Competition Blue (known as Competition Burgundy in the Fender catalog), and Competition Orange. This paint scheme was heavily influenced by the Shelby Mustang cars of the late 1960s.\n\nIn 1982 Fender discontinued both the Mustang and the Musicmaster II. These were the last of the offset student models to be made. Fender replaced the Mustang line with the short-lived Fender Bullet line of guitars and basses before relegating production of their student guitars to their Squier division.\n\nIn 2016, Fender released the \"Offset Series\" lineup which included reissues of both the Duo-Sonic and the Mustang, the latter of which was redesigned to include a six-saddle hardtail bridge similar to that of the Stratocaster and eliminating the usual switching array for a simplified two-pickup, three-position pickup selector. The pickups are out of phase with each other, so the middle both-pickup position has the twanginess of the out-of-phase position of the original instruments. In the following year, Squier would re-release the classic design as the Vintage Modified Mustang and a simplified, HH (Humbucker-Humbucker) version of the Offset Series instrument as the Bullet Mustang.\nIn 2019 Fender released the Vintera series which includes a new mustang model made to the same specifications as the original 60s guitars.\n\nIn 1990 Fender re-issued the Mustang, largely as a result of the vintage movement prevalent at the time. Among grunge and punk rock guitarists, Fender's discontinued models (budget models such as the Duo-Sonic and high-end models such as the Jazzmaster and Jaguar) had become extremely popular. Such models had Fender quality, but were less expensive secondhand than vintage Stratocasters and Telecasters.\n\nThe reissued Mustang is made in Japan and available in only the 24-inch scale. While the original Mustangs used mostly poplar wood for the body (with some rarely documented cases of mahogany), MG-72 Mustang reissues are made of the similar basswood, the newer MG-65 reissues revert to the original poplar. The natural-finished MG-77 reissue is made of ash.\n\nIn 2011 Fender released a new Mustang model in the Pawn Shop series, called the Mustang Special. The model features an offset Mustang body shape and a 24-inch scale neck, but with humbucking pickups and a hard-tail Stratocaster bridge.\n\nIn 2012 Fender announced a Kurt Cobain Signature Mustang. This model is based on Kurt's modified Mustangs that he played during the In Utero tour. Instead of having 2 single coil pickups it has a Seymour Duncan JB humbucker in the bridge and a normal Mustang single coil in the neck. It also has an angled Fender adjusto-matic bridge instead of the standard Mustang bridge. Finish colors originally included Fiesta Red, Sonic Blue, and Dark Lake Placid Blue with Competition Stripe, though by 2015 the Kurt Cobain Mustang was only produced in Sonic Blue. It will also be the first Mustang model that will be sold in both right and left-handed versions in Europe.\n\nIn Summer 2012, Squier released a new Mustang in the Vintage Modified series, with similar specs to the original versions, but using more modern materials. There was also a double-humbucker version introduced as a Bullet model. \n\nIn mid-2013, Fender released the Modern Player Mustang; a newer take on the old student model. It featured two Fender-branded P-90 pickups (the MP-90), and a modern 9.5\" neck radius, and was offered in Daphne Blue and Honeyburst.\n\nIn late 2013, Fender also introduced the American Special Mustang, the first production Mustang made in the United States since the original run was discontinued. The American Special Mustang was significantly different from vintage models, and eliminated many unconventional features of the original Mustang. It featured the traditional Mustang shape and scale length, but featured two Fender Atomic Humbuckers with conventional three-way wiring, a more conventional Adjust-o-matic bridge and a fixed tail piece.\n\n2016 saw Fender re-introduce the Mustang in two forms: the Mustang (two single coil pickups - in Olympic White, Black and Olive) and the Mustang 90 (two MP90 pickups - in Olympic White, Torino Red and Silver), both in a 24\" scale. They have a string-through-body hardtail 'Strat' bridge (no vibrato system as was found on previous Mustangs), with vintage-like bent-steel saddles. These guitars, and a re-introduced 'Duo-Sonic' range, form the 'Offset Series' and are made in Mexico. The bodies are alder and the necks maple, with maple or rosewood fretboards. The rosewood fretboards were then replaced by pau ferro in 2017, in response to new CITES restrictions on the trading of rosewood. Two new colors were also introduced: Shell Pink for the Mustang and 2-Color Sunburst for the Mustang 90. In 2018 Fender introduced an American Performer variant of the Mustang with original style tremolo and three way selector switch instead of the original's on-off and phase switches above the pickups.\n\nThe Mustang has two angled single-coil pickups, each with an adjacent on-off-on switch, and a master tone and volume control.\n\nThe Mustang is unusual in having neither a pickup selector nor a circuit selector switch, instead just using the two pickup switches to allow the pickups to be used either singly or in parallel. The second \"on\" position reverses the phase of the selected pickup, allowing the pickups to be either in or out of phase when in parallel. This phasing option was also unusual for 1964.\n\nIt also meant that, as both pickups were floating with respect to ground, it was possible to modify the wiring to put the pickups into series either in or out of phase without excessive noise. The unusual switching could also be replaced with a conventional 3 way pickup selector switch, such as found on the early Fender Duo-Sonic models. However this usually requires modification of the pickguard and routing of the body. The typical Mustang body is not routed from the factory for this switch, as it is on the 1955-1965 Fender Duo-Sonic and Musicmaster bodies; this misnomer is often incorrectly reported as such. Only the first generations of both the Duo-Sonic and Fender Musicmaster bodies share this body routing for an additional selector switch as stock, and are both significantly different in body dimension to the later built Mustang. The Duo-Sonic II, and Musicmaster II, introduced in 1965, dropped the 3 way switch routing on the lower bout of the body. Though this generation now shared the same body dimensions as the Mustang, and continued to do so until the end of their respective original runs, no routing for the lower pickguard mounted switch was ever present on any Mustang, or later Duo-Sonic/Musicmaster body as stock. The Duo-Sonic II even used two slider switches for pickup switching on the upper pickguard, in identical positions as the Mustang. Installing an alternative pickup selector switch on the Mustang, like seen on early Duo-Sonics, can thus free up the two, eight-terminal, pickup switches for other uses. Some players choose and prefer this option. As with many student guitars, aftermarket pickup additions and changes are commonly found in many vintage examples.\n\nThe Mustang introduced the \"Fender Dynamic Vibrato\" tailpiece, which together with a floating bridge forms the Mustang vibrato system. The floating bridge concept is common to the Fender floating vibrato developed for the Jazzmaster, but on the Mustang the saddles have only a single string slot, while on other Fender guitars there are multiple slots to allow limited adjustment of the string spacing.\n\nThe tailpiece was unique when introduced and remains the most unusual feature of the Mustang; Only the Jag-Stang and Fender Custom (Maverick) share this particular mechanism. While not nearly so popular as the Stratocaster \"synchronized tremolo\", some guitarists prefer it over all other vibrato mechanisms. However, some guitarists also claim that the vibrato is too sensitive. Most notably, Fender incorporated it in the custom design which became the Jag-Stang.\n\nNo previous Fender student guitar had a vibrato system at all, and the subsequent Fender Bronco used a completely different mechanism, without a floating bridge.\n\nThe Mustang was the last of the Fender floating bridge models to be withdrawn, and the first to be reissued. Mustangs have maintained a popular following in Japan.\n\nThe Fender Mustang was originally produced in what Fender simply referred to as Blue, White, and Red from 1964–1968. Some now erroneously label these colors as Daphne Blue, Olympic White, and Dakota/Fiesta Red (actually two distinct custom red colors available from Fender) due to their similarity with these custom colors. However, Fender further notes in sales literature of the time that custom colors were not available on Mustangs or other student models of guitar. As such, Daphne Blue, Olympic White, and Dakota or Fiesta Red were never officially offered as Mustang colors. These would have been custom order only colors at the time of the Mustang's initial release, and thus the Mustang was not eligible to receive these finishes according to Fender. Speculation continues that these paint colors may have very well been the same exact custom paint formulations offered on other eligible Fender guitars, but it is not known with 100% certainty, although it is certainly probable. \n\nIn 1969, Fender made several significant changes to the manufacture of the Mustang. Body and arm contours were added, and the guitars were now offered in several \"Competition Colors” for the first time. \nThese were as follows;\n\nCompetition Burgundy with light blue stripes. The main body color is similar to Lake Placid Blue, and it remains a mystery as to why Fender called this color Burgundy. Some erroneously claim that guitars finished in this color scheme came with a purple burst around the guitar's outline. As observed on some vintage examples, this is due to heavier build up on the body and headstock edges of clear coat and the subsequent yellowing of this clear finish coat over many decades. This differential yellow over blue effect presents as a purple hue over these areas of the body and headstock. When new, these guitars simply did not exhibit this \"faux\" sunburst effect.\n\nCompetition Red (essentially Candy Apple Red) with white stripes, and;\n\nCompetition Orange with red-orange stripes. \n\nThese were the first three original competition finishes offered. As stated, each were also fitted with a set of “racing stripes” across the arm contour. Competition Mustangs are the only original Fender guitars to be produced with these \"racing stripes\" which make them very collectible. The competition Mustangs produced from 1969 to mid 1970 came with a matching headstock; from then until the retirement of competition color schemes, an unpainted headstock was standard. The matching headstock models seem to be more desirable with collectors than the non matching models.\n\nMid-to-late 1970s US Mustangs were produced in sunburst and natural finishes as well as blonde, walnut, and black (with a standard black pickguard, updated from the earlier white pearloid or tortoise shell) and the unique Antigua burst scheme. Later Japanese reissues have been made available in a wide variety of color schemes, many with matching headstocks or in variations never seen in the US. These include competition Mustangs in Vintage White (with dark blue stripe), Capri Orange (with Fiesta Red stripe), and Ocean Turquoise Metallic (with light blue stripe), and non-stripe matching headstock Mustangs in Dakota Red, Fiesta Red and Old Lake Placid Blue. The 2012 Fender Mustang (Kurt Cobain Artist Edition) comes in Fiesta Red, Sonic Blue and Dark Lake Placid Blue with competition stripes. The 2016 Offset Series instruments come in Black, Olive, Olympic White, Torino Red and Silver, with Shell Pink and 2-Color Sunburst being released the following year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856178", "title": "Gerald McConnell", "text": "Gerald McConnell\n\nGerald McConnell (1931 – June 14, 2004) was an American illustrator best known for his works on paperback books. He was born in East Orange, New Jersey and studied under Frank J. Reilly and Dean Cornwell. McConnell also worked on many advertisements, paintings for places like the Air Force Museum, NASA Museum, and National Park Department.\n\nMcConnell was known later in his career for his three-dimensional art, improving protections for artist as a leader of the Graphic Artist Guild, teaching for a short time at the Pratt Institute, creating several art books, and founding Madison Square Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856182", "title": "Josiah Belden", "text": "Josiah Belden\n\nJosiah Belden (May 4, 1815 – April 23, 1892) was an American pioneer and politician.\n\nBorn in Connecticut, Belden was orphaned by the time he was 14. He later moved to St. Louis, Missouri and became a successful businessman. In 1841 he joined the Bartleson-Bidwell Party, the first organized emigrant party to use the California Trail to reach the Mexican province of Alta California. The party was detained at Mission San Jose by General Mariano Guadalupe Vallejo for illegally entering Mexico without valid passports; Vallejo violated his orders to force all American immigrants to leave California, allowing the group to remain after becoming Mexican citizens.\n\nHe came in 1842 to Monterey, where Thomas O. Larkin put him in a mercantile store at Santa Cruz and made him his agent. Belden was living in Branciforte (now Santa Cruz), when the USS \"United States\", under the command of Commodore Thomas ap Catesby Jones, captured the nearby Presidio of Monterey on October 20, 1842. Jones appointed Belden \"alcalde\", a political position that combines the functions of a mayor, a judge, and a sheriff. On October 21, Jones discovered that the U.S. and Mexico were not at war, and returned the Presidio back to the Mexican forces; Belden's short term as alcalde also ended.\n\nBelden received the Rancho Barranca Colorado Mexican land grant near Red Bluff in current Tehama County in 1844. In 1846, Belden gave William B. Ide 50 percent ownership of the grant, in exchange for Ide operating the ranch. Belden sold the Ide family the entire rancho in 1849.\n\nIn 1848, Belden opened a store in San Jose. After San Jose became the first incorporated city in California, Belden was elected its first mayor on April 8, 1850. He served a single one-year term, and was elected to serve as a member of the city's Common Council for a one-year term in 1851. his 11-acre mansion later became the Vendome Hotel.\n\nBelden's letters and journal were published in 1962 as \"Josiah Belden, 1841 California Pioneer : His Memoir and Early Letters\". His grandson, Charles Josiah Belden, was a well known western photographer. His daughter, Mary, married Capt. Luis F. Emilio, 54th Ma. Infantry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856183", "title": "Kayangel", "text": "Kayangel\n\nKayangel (\"Ngcheangel\", ) is the northernmost state of Palau north of Koror. The land area is about . The population is 54 (2015 census). The state consists of three atolls in different states of development:\n\nKayangel Atoll (\"Ngcheangel\"), the only inhabited atoll of Kayangel State, with most (99 percent) of the land area of Kayangel State, is located at , about north of Babelthuap island, the main island of Palau, but only north of Babelthuap's barrier reef. The atoll is about north-south, and wide, with a total area of , including the lagoon. The lagoon has an average depth of and a maximum depth of , and about 25 large pinnacles can be detected from aerial photographs. The bottom of the lagoon is largely sand. On the western side of the atoll, there is a small passage for boats into the lagoon, with a depth of only , called \"Ulach\". Coral diversity and abundance are low in the lagoon. Large fish, dolphins and foraging sea turtles are common near the pass.\n\nThere are four densely wooded islets on the eastern and southern rim of the oval-shaped atoll, from north to south, are Kayangel, Ngeriungs, Ngerebelas and Orak.\n\nKayangel Islet (also called Ngcheangel or Ngajangel), is the largest and only inhabited islet of Kayangel Atoll and Kayangel State. It is long north-south, with a width between in the south and in the north. The land area is about . There are five villages primarily oriented to the western shore (lagoon side). They stretch over from north to south and are not clearly separated from each other. The villages are very small by any standard, given the aggregate population of only 138. Together, they make up the state capital, Kayangel (\"Ngcheangel\"). From north to south:\n\n\nThe only power on the island comes from solar panels or personal generators. There is one small school that goes from K-9th grades and a small library. The only shopping to be done on the island is from a small general store, otherwise it is what the islanders catch in the ocean or grow in the ground. There are several ways to get to the island. One is the island's speedboat that takes about two hours, but it is generally in for repairs. The more reliable modes are from either a local fisherman or a dive company that makes regular trips up to the island to dive off the reefs surrounding the island.\n\nNgeriungs Islet, about south of Kayangel Islet, is long north-south, and has a width between in the south and in the north, which amounts to a land area of . There is a small campsite.\n\nNgerebelas Islet, close to the southern tip of Kayangel atoll, about southwest of the southwestern tip of Ngeriungs Islet, has a size of east-west by north-south, with a land area of .\n\nOrak Islet, at the southern tip of Kayangel atoll, about southwest of the southwestern end of Ngerebelas Islet, is long southwest-northeast, and wide. With an area of , it is the smallest of the four islets of Kayangel Atoll.\n\nNgaruangel (Ngaruangl) Reef, located at , is an incipient atoll, northwest of Kayangel atoll, and separated from it by Ngaruangl Passage, a very deep ( at from each atoll) and wide passage. The atoll is long north-south, and from wide in the north to in the south, and about on the average. The total area including the lagoon is . The lagoon is shallow, with an average depth of , has about 115 pinnacle and patch reefs, and a boat passage through the northeastern part of the barrier reef. The lagoon floor is covered with thick sand deposits and thickets of staghorn Acropora. The reef is protected by Ngaruangel Reserve.\n\nThere is one small, barren and uninhabited islet, Ngaruangel Island, in the center of the eastern rim of the atoll, at its easternmost point. Ngaruangel Island is long north-south, and from wide in the south to in the north. There is a sand spit attached to the island, pointing southwest into the lagoon, long and wide. The total area of the island is .\n\nThe islet consists almost entirely of pieces of rough coral rock thrown up by surf. Most of the pieces are rough or sharp and are largely of the Acropora reticulata type, or of similar form. Sand and sandy gravel are limited to the lagoon side and the southern tip. The altitude is a little less than one meter above high tide.\n\nThere is no vegetation on the islet. Animal life is represented by numerous marine crane flies. Terns are abundant.\n\nVelasco Reef, located at is a sunken atoll north of Ngaruangl Reef, rising steeply from the surrounding seafloor, deep. It is not clearly separated from Ngaruangl Reef and appears as its large but submerged northern extension on satellite images. It extends more than to the north, and is up to wide, giving it an oval shape, covering an area of about . Much of the reef is uncharted. The central depression (lagoon) is deep, while depths along the rim (outer edges) range from (generally ), on which there are overfalls when the tidal currents are strong. Heavy wave exposure limits coral diversity and cover on Velasco Reef.\n\nThe Ministry of Education operates public schools.\n\nJFK Kayangel Elementary School was built in 1965; initially students took classes in a bai. It relieved the schools in Babeldaob as Kayangel students previously attended those schools. Ngaraard Elementary School in Ngaraard formerly served Kayangel.\n\nPalau High School in Koror is the country's only public high school, so children from this community go there.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856185", "title": "Jeffrey (1995 film)", "text": "Jeffrey (1995 film)\n\nJeffrey is a 1995 American gay romantic comedy film directed by Christopher Ashley. It is based on a play depicting the life and times of Richard Jeffrey by Paul Rudnick, who also wrote the screenplay.\n\nStarring Steven Weber as Jeffrey and Michael T. Weiss as Steve, the film features cameos by Olympia Dukakis, Victor Garber, Gregory Jbara, Robert Klein, Nathan Lane, Camryn Manheim, Kathy Najimy, Kevin Nealon, Ethan Phillips, and Sigourney Weaver. Christine Baranski has a small role as the socialite hostess of a fundraiser that (in Jeffrey's imagination) turns into a cater-waiter hoedown orgy. The film co-stars Patrick Stewart as Sterling, an older gay decorator whose partner, Darius (Bryan Batt), dies of AIDS complications.\n\nThe story takes place in Manhattan during the height of the AIDS epidemic and revolves around the title character (Steven Weber), a gay man who has sworn off sex because of it. Almost immediately thereafter he meets Steve (Michael T. Weiss), a hunky, charming HIV positive man. He then experiences an emotional conflict as he must face his fear in order to accept love, often breaking the fourth wall to do so.\n\nIt is not so much that Jeffrey is afraid of dying himself, but that he is afraid that he will fall in love with someone who is bound to die; thus, his celibacy is not only about sex, but also about relationships in general.\nHelping him through this period of his life and advising him is a cast of cameos including Patrick Stewart, Nathan Lane, and Sigourney Weaver.\n\n\nReviews to \"Jeffrey\" were mixed to positive, as it holds a 68% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 28 reviews. Patrick Stewart got great acclaim for his supporting role, winning several critics awards, and even generated Oscars buzz, but failed to secure a nomination.\n\nCaryn James from \"The New York Times\" wrote “For anyone who missed the play, the film offers a strong echo of its best qualities and a couple of truly hilarious moments.”\n\n\"Jeffrey\" was released on VHS after its initial theatrical run, and on DVD in 2003. Shout! Factory released the film on Blu-ray in 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856186", "title": "Robert Rippon Duke", "text": "Robert Rippon Duke\n\nRobert Rippon Duke (31 May 1817 16 August 1909) was an English architect and surveyor who designed various prominent Victorian buildings in Buxton, Derbyshire.\n\nDuke was born in Hull, the son of a whaler, in 1817.\n\nHe moved to Buxton and in 1831 became an apprentice carpenter at Buxton Estate. From 1849 to 1852 he supervised the building of the Royal Hotel (Winster Place) on Spring Gardens. He then formed the Turner and Duke building company with partner Samuel Turner. He was a self-taught draughtsman and established his own architect's practice at 31 Spring Gardens. He was a founder member of the Buxton, Fairfield and Burbage Mechanics and Literary Institute and its president in 1856. His building company collapsed in 1862. In 1863 he was appointed as architect for the 7th Duke of Devonshire's Buxton Estate. He remained in the position of architect, surveyor and building inspector for the Devonshire Estate for 45 years. This work involved the layouts of roads, approving building designs, enforcing covenants and conducting land deals. He was a trustee for the Buxton Bath Charity for 50 years. He sold his architect's business to William Bryden in 1883. In later life Duke suffered from rheumatism and was confined to a wheelchair.\n\nHe was a resident at The Square, alongside renowned Buxton water physicians Sir Charles Scudamore and Dr William Henry Robertson. In 1870 he designed his own home Park House on Manchester Road.\n\nDuke designed the Octagon concert hall in Buxton Pavilion Gardens, matching the style of Edward Milner's adjoining pavilion, and it first opened to the public in 1876. It is a glass and cast iron masterpiece of Victorian architecture, situated near the Buxton Opera House (which was designed by Frank Matcham and built in 1903).\n\nThe other great Buxton building for which Rippon Duke was largely responsible is the Devonshire Dome. Originally a vast octagonal stable block designed by Georgian architect John Carr of York for William Cavendish, 5th Duke of Devonshire to accompany his magnificent Crescent, it has undergone several major transformations. In 1859, the Buxton Bath Charity had persuaded the Duke of Devonshire to allow part of the building - by then accommodating nothing like the 120 horses for which it was designed - to be converted to a charity hospital for the use of the ‘sick poor’ coming in for treatment from the ‘Cottonopolis’ and many towns around. Devonshire estate architect, Henry Currey, architect for St Thomas’s Hospital in London, converted two thirds of the building into a hospital. Then, in 1878, the Buxton Bath Charity trustees under their doughty chairman Dr William Henry Robertson, persuaded the 7th Duke of Devonshire to give them the use of the whole building in exchange for providing new stables elsewhere in the town.\n\nRobert Rippon Duke was commissioned to design a 300-bed hospital to rival Bath and Harrogate for charity medical provision. The Cotton Districts Convalescent fund put up £25,000 for the conversion. Rippon Duke included in his design what was then the world's largest unsupported dome; a vast steel construction clad in slate and comprising 22 curved steel arms. This figure was revised upwards following advice from a railway engineer, Mr Footner, in the 1870s, who retold an account of the Tay Bridge disaster (which collapsed because its structure had not taken into account the stresses of lateral wind and storms). After Rippon Duke's redevelopment in 1881, the Devonshire Hospital had the largest dome in the world at in diameter. This exceeded the Pantheon (43m) and St Peter's Basilica (42m) in Rome, and St Paul's Cathedral (34m). The Devonshire Dome and its surrounding Victorian villas are now the Devonshire Campus - a faculty of the University of Derby.\n\nDuke designed the Poole's Cavern Lodge in 1852. He designed the Burlington Hotel (subsequently The Savoy) at the bottom of Hall Bank in 1864, Fairfield Wesleyan Chapel in 1868 and Trinity Episcopal Church on Hardwick Mount in 1872. In the 1860s and 1870s Robert Rippon Duke designed grand Victorian Villas along Cavendish Terrace (now called Broad Walk), Thorncliffe Cottage on Hartington Road, Spring Bank and The Knoll on Marlborough Road and Hamilton and Arnside villas on Devonshire Road. He designed Turner's Memorial drinking fountain in 1879 (in memory of his colleague and friend Samuel Turner), which stands in front of the Hot Baths on Terrace Road. Duke was the Clerk of Works for the Palace Hotel (designed by Henry Currey) and he was the architect for its extensions in 1887. He also designed the Post Office at Cavendish Circus.\n\nR. R. Duke's own building company also built St Anne's Roman Catholic Church on Terrace Road in 1861 and the Congregational Church on Hardwick Mount in 1861 (demolished in 1983).\n"}
{"id": "1856187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856187", "title": "Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (video game)", "text": "Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (video game)\n\nStar Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith is an action video game based on the . It was released on May 4, 2005, for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS. Additionally, a version was made available for mobile phones on April 2, 2005. As part of the PlayStation 2 classics program, the PlayStation 2 version was re-released in Europe on the PlayStation Network on February 11, 2015, and in North America on April 28, 2015.\n\nIn single player mode, the player alternates between playing as Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi, reliving various scenes from the film through the game's missions. There are 17 levels, interlaced with over 12 minutes of footage from the movie as cutscenes. The game's combat system is heavily concentrated on lightsaber combat. Each of the playable characters (with the exception of the MagnaGuard) is equipped with at least one lightsaber. There are three basic attacks: fast attacks which do the least amount of damage, strong attacks which do more damage but are slower to execute, and slow but incredibly strong critical attacks. These attacks can be mixed to create combination attacks. Attacks can also be charged up for greater strength. One feature of the game is called a Saber Lock - a sequence in which the player's character clashes sabers with an opponent and must overpower them to avoid losing health.\n\nThe game features an experience system, whereby the player's character can upgrade attacks and gain new ones as they progress through the game. Each ability, with the exception of the Force Dash, can be upgraded to more powerful levels. In addition to offensive techniques, defensive techniques are also available. The player's character automatically deflects a percentage of blaster bolts, but other shots and attacks must be manually deflected. Aside from saber combat and force powers, each character has a number of physical attacks that can be incorporated into combos. Nearly all characters have a kick which can instantly floor opponents. A number of characters also have the ability to punch their opponents. The game environment is interactive, allowing, and in some cases requiring, the player to execute actions such as moving and destroying objects with the lightsaber or force powers.\n\nThe handheld versions of the game are played as a 2.5D side-scrolling beat 'em up game, where players can freely choose to play as either Obi-Wan or Anakin, traversing across roughly a dozen levels to battle a variety of enemies and occasionally dodge deadly hazards, such as a laser trap or a missile launcher. Both characters have nearly identical attack moves, and can gain access to special unlockable moves that can be unleashed when a \"fury\" or \"focus\" gauge is filled up during battle. A few levels involve boss battles against characters with melee weapons, who usually can only be damaged after the player carefully recognizes and blocks an attack, and some other levels end with a miniboss fight against a vehicle or elite enemy. The Nintendo DS version also exclusively adds extra 3D space battle levels that require the player to shoot down a series of targets or enemies.\n\nAs with the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions, players are given a chance to upgrade their character's attacks and abilities, unlock new abilities and improve their stats after completing a level. Players purchase upgrades with \"customization points\", which are found during a level, collected from destroying small portions of the scenery or earned by finishing the level at a quicker pace or with good combat efficiency. Players must deflect all blaster bolts manually by pressing a button, while well-timed presses can allow the player to deflect them straight back.\n\nThe PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions of the game feature a multiplayer duel mode, in which two players face off against each other in a lightsaber battle. Players can choose Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, Count Dooku, General Grievous, Mace Windu, Cin Drallig or Jedi padawan Serra Keto. Darth Vader and \"Ben Kenobi\", circa \"Episode IV\", can also be unlocked. Each battle can be won with the best of one, three or five rounds, depending on the options chosen. In addition, all characters have equal health and energy, with all status upgrades acquired by Anakin and Obi-Wan in the single player mode eliminated. However, all of the upgraded techniques and Force Powers are available and each of the other characters has special abilities and maneuvers. In addition to the original costumes found throughout the single-player campaign, each character has a different costume that is used when both players choose the same character. Some of these costumes depict Sith versions of certain Jedi characters.\n\nThe Game Boy Advance version of the game allows two players to link up and participate in exclusive co-op missions as Anakin and Obi-Wan, or have the two of them fight off endless waves of enemies and see who can survive the longest. The Nintendo DS version exclusively features 3D multiplayer space battles that take advantage of the DS' graphical capabilities and allow players to pilot and battle with iconic vehicles from both the prequel and original eras of \"Star Wars\", such as the \"Millennium Falcon\".\n\nAnakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi arrive on board the \"Invisible Hand\", the Separatist flagship of General Grievous, who has kidnapped Supreme Chancellor Palpatine above Coruscant. After battling droids in the main hangar bay and while ascending the elevators, the duo arrive at the general's quarters, where Palpatine is being held. However, the two are then confronted by Grevious' master Count Dooku and in the ensuing duel, Obi-Wan is knocked out and Anakin, in violation of Jedi teachings, brutally kills Dooku by running him through with his lightsaber. The pair then escape with Palpatine but are recaptured and brought before Grievous on the ship's bridge. They escape as the badly damaged ship capsizes in orbit and fight off Grievous' bodyguards while the general escapes. Anakin manages to save everyone by crashing the ship on Coruscant.\n\nObi-Wan journeys to Utapau in search of Grievous and confronts him after he dispatches the Separatist council to the planet of Mustafar for safety. Obi-Wan then duels Grievous as Republic Army clones invade and battle the droids. Grievous reaches the launch platform where his ship is situated, but Obi-Wan impales and kills him. Meanwhile, on Coruscant, Anakin discovers Jedi Master Mace Windu preparing to execute Palpatine, who is revealed to be the Sith lord Darth Sidious, in his office. Anakin, who believes Palpatine can help him, intervenes and duels Windu, who attempts to fight off Anakin before returning to finish off the chancellor. Anakin stabs him and throws him out a window to his death; Palpatine then takes Anakin under his wing, dubs him \"Darth Vader\", and orders him to wipe out all of the Jedi in the Jedi Temple. Darth Vader and an army of clone troopers make their way to the Temple, where he kills librarian Jocasta Nu, initiating the massacre. While the clones mop up the survivors, Vader confronts Serra Keto and crushes her with a pillar. He is then confronted by her master, Cin Drallig, whom he also duels. The two wind up outside of the temple, where Vader impales Drallig through the chest.\n\nAcross the galaxy, the clones, following orders from Palpatine, turn on their Jedi allies and murder them. Obi-Wan manages to escape from Utapau after being relentlessly hunted by both the droids and his own soldiers. Palpatine orders Vader to go to Mustafar and wipe out the Separatist leaders to eliminate all potential threats to his rule. After brutally cutting down their Neimoidian guards, Vader forces his way into the council chambers, killing Poggle the Lesser, Wat Tambor, and two others as Viceroy Nute Gunray flees for his life. Vader cuts down Gunray's lieutenant Rune Haako, and then catches Gunray trying to escape on his ship, which he destroys and tosses into the planet's lava. Meanwhile, on Coruscant, Obi-Wan & Master Yoda raid the ruins of the Jedi Temple, clearing it of clone soldiers and deactivating a beacon left by them as a trap for other Jedi. Desperate to know who was responsible, Obi-Wan discovers security recordings of Anakin becoming a Sith lord. The recording also reveal Vader's location, so Obi-Wan heads to Mustafar to confront him.\n\nThe two former friends engage in a ferocious lightsaber duel across the Mustafar facility, which is slowly being destroyed by lava. The two end up on a platform floating down a lava river; Obi-Wan jumps off and demands that his fallen apprentice surrender. An enraged Vader leaps over him, allowing Obi-Wan to slice off his legs and left arm. Vader slides towards the lava and catches on fire; Obi-Wan picks up his fallen lightsaber and leaves him for dead. Palpatine arrives and finds Vader badly injured, but still alive; he has him surgically reconstructed and builds him a special suit. The two oversee the construction of the Death Star as the Republic falls and the Empire is born.\n\nIn a break from the film's plot, the PS2 and Xbox versions also feature an alternate ending. In the final level, during the battle between Vader and Obi-Wan, the player is given the opportunity to play as Vader, and must defeat Obi-Wan. In this ending, Vader's ill-fated jump is successful and he kills Obi-Wan before kicking his body close to the edge of the lava river. After slaying his former master, Vader returns to Emperor Palpatine and obtains a new, red Sith lightsaber. As the Emperor congratulates him, Vader murders him and takes his place, having been thoroughly corrupted by his new power. This ending is not present in the GBA and DS versions, and the player is instead given the canonical narrative of Vader losing his duel against Obi-Wan and revived by Palpatine in a mechanical suit.\n\nWith the successful completion of certain missions in the single player campaign, bonus scenarios can be unlocked. Each scenario features a different playable character: the MagnaGuard, General Grievous, Yoda, Anakin, or Darth Vader. In addition, there are four cooperative missions in which two players (or one player and a computer-controlled character) work together to defeat enemies. The first three team up Anakin and Obi-Wan for a number of offensive encounters with the Separatists' droid army, while the fourth has Jedi Master Cin Drallig and his favorite student, Serra Keto, teaming up to defeat the clone squadron bent on destroying the Jedi Temple in accordance with Order 66.\n\nThe game was aided in development by Nick Gillard, the stunt coordinator and lightsaber fight trainer for \"\", \"\", and \"Revenge of the Sith\". In addition, lightsaber expert Cin Drallig, a character portrayed by Gillard, appears in the game as a boss and as a playable character, albeit with a different voice actor. Hayden Christensen returned to help the developers with the character of Anakin despite not officially reprising the role.\n\nThe game utilized many of the cast members of the 2003 animated series \"\". Additionally, stock footage of the actors from the films appeared in many of the game's cinematics. Alethea McGrath reprised her role as Jocasta Nu from \"Attack of the Clones\", and was the only actor from the films to do so. All other voice actors have either before or since provided voice work in the \"Star Wars\" universe. James Arnold Taylor, who voices Obi-Wan Kenobi in the series, provides the voice of Obi-Wan. Mat Lucas provides the voice of Anakin Skywalker, having also doubled for Christensen in the video game and \"\" as well as in the 2003 \"Clone Wars\" series. Voice actor Corey Burton, primary talent for the animated version of Count Dooku, voices various minor characters as well as Dooku himself. General Grievous is voiced by Matthew Wood, who also provided his voice in the game's and the 2008 \"Clone Wars\" series. Terrence C. Carson voices Mace Windu and Nick Jameson voices Chancellor Palpatine/Darth Sidious and Ben Kenobi. Scott Lawrence, best known for his role as United States Naval JAG lawyer Cmdr. Sturgis Turner on the CBS series \"JAG\" provides the voice for Darth Vader. Yoda and Cin Drallig are both voiced by Tom Kane, who also provides additional voices. Finally, Serra Keto is voiced by Kari Wahlgren.\n\nThe game received average to positive reviews upon release. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 71.85% and 73 out of 100 for the DS version; 71.41% and 73 out of 100 for the Game Boy Advance version; 65.85% and 61 out of 100 for the Xbox version; and 64.53% and 60 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version.\n\nIvan Sullic of IGN rated the PS2 and Xbox versions 4.5 out of ten. He criticised the camera, the combo-system, the graphics, level design, AI and, most specifically, the implementation of the combat-based gameplay. GameSpy gave the game a better review, awarding the same versions 4 out of 5. GameSpot also rated the same versions of the game 6.3 out of 10.\n\n\"Maxim\" gave the PS2 and Xbox versions a score of eight out of ten and stated that \"Like the movie itself, the game's surprisingly good and full of decent action as you use Jedi skills in a barrage of lightsaber battles to win one for good or evil.\" However, \"Detroit Free Press\" gave the latter version a score of two stars out of four and said that \"Flawed gameplay that borders on monotonous is this game's menace. While the lightsaber fighting scheme is actually fairly deep, especially when you mix in grapple attacks, force tricks and counterattacks on top of counterattacks, I rarely used most of these goodies.\" \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" also gave the former version a score of two-and-a-half stars out of five and stated that \"the offensive moves cannot stop the game from feeling repetitive. Shield door \"puzzles\" are recycled, while brief turret-blasting interludes are dull.\"\n\nThe PlayStation 2 version of \"Revenge of the Sith\" received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 300,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "1856189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856189", "title": "Thought of Norea", "text": "Thought of Norea\n\nThe Thought of Norea is a brief Sethian Gnostic text. The main surviving copies come from the Nag Hammadi library. The \"Thought of Norea\" is sometimes considered to belong to the New Testament apocrypha. It is one of the shorter texts of the Nag Hammadi collection and is estimated to have been written in the second century C.E.\n\nThe text, consisting of four paragraphs, is an ode to Norea, one of the \"emanations\" in Gnostic cosmology, the syzygy of Adam, and Sophia after her fall from grace. Norea has several identities within Gnosticism: she can be Eve’s daughter and Seth’s wife and sister, or she can be Noah or Shem’s wife. In the Thought of Norea, she is connected to Sophia. She furthermore exemplifies the journey of the soul to acquire the divine knowledge necessary for salvation\n\nThe text is thought to be from the Sethian sect of Gnostics, the sect who view biblical Seth as their hero, who was reincarnated as Jesus. Their other texts include the Apocalypse of Adam, Apocryphon of John, the Three Steles of Seth, the Trimorphic Protennoia, and the Coptic Gospel of the Egyptians.\n\n\"Father of All, Ennoia of the Light, dwelling in the heights above the (regions) below, Light dwelling in the heights, Voice of Truth, upright Nous, untouchable Logos, and ineffable Voice, incomprehensible Father!\n\nIt is Norea who cries out to them. They heard, [and] they received her into her place forever. They gave it to her in the Father of Nous, Adamas, as well as the voice of the Holy Ones, in order that she might rest in the ineffable Epinoia, in order that [she] might inherit the first mind which [she] had received, and that [she] might rest in the divine Autogenes, and that she (too) might generate herself, just as she also has inherited the living Logos, and that she might be joined to all of the Imperishable Ones, and speak with the mind of the Father.\n\nAnd she began to speak with the words of Life, and [she] remained in the presence of the Exalted One, possessing that which she had received before the world came into being. She has the great mind of the Invisible One, and she gives glory to [her] Father, and she dwells within those who [are actively awake] within the Pleroma, and she beholds the Pleroma.\n\nThere will be days when she will behold the Pleroma, and she will not be in deficiency, for she has the four holy helpers who intercede on her behalf with the Father of the All, Adamas. He it is who is within all of the Adams, possessing the thought of Norea, who speaks concerning the two names which create a single name.\"\n"}
{"id": "1856192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856192", "title": "Baseball at the Summer Olympics", "text": "Baseball at the Summer Olympics\n\nBaseball at the Summer Olympics unofficially debuted at the 1904 Summer Olympics, and became an official Olympic sport at the 1992 Summer Olympics. The event was last played in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing with South Korea taking the gold; the sport was dropped from the Summer Olympic program, but will be revived as part of the program for the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.\n\nOlympic baseball is governed by the World Baseball Softball Confederation (WBSC).\n\nAlthough little was recorded, Olympic baseball first appeared at the 1904 St. Louis games. Eight years later in 1912 in Stockholm, a United States team played against host Sweden, winning 13–3. Baseball was also played at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris, the American team beating the French team (the local Ranelagh Club) 5–0 in a four inning exhibition game. In 1936 in Berlin, two United States teams played each other before approximately 90,000–100,000 spectators at the Reichsportsfeld. The 1952 Helsinki event was a modified form of the sport, Finnish baseball, played by two Finnish teams. Australia played a one-game exhibition against the United States in 1956 Melbourne and Japan did the same in 1964 in Tokyo. With a crowd of nearly 114,000 spectators, this game at the Melbourne Cricket Ground held the record for the highest attended exhibition baseball game ever until a 2008 American game in Los Angeles.\n\nAfter a twenty-year hiatus, Olympic baseball (labelled an exhibition sport/event by the IOC) returned but with tournament formatting (1984 Los Angeles). At the 1988 Seoul games, it was termed a demonstration sport. Japan defeated the United States in the inaugural tournament finale in 1984. In 1988, the United States won over Japan.\n\nBaseball was open only to male amateurs in 1992 and 1996. As a result, the Americans and other nations where professional baseball is developed relied on collegiate players, while Cubans used their most experienced veterans, who technically were considered amateurs as they nominally held other jobs, but in fact trained full-time. In 2000, pros were admitted, but the MLB refused to release its players in 2000, 2004, and 2008, and the situation changed only a little: the Cubans still used their best players, while the Americans started using minor leaguers. The IOC cited the absence of the best players as the main reason for baseball being dropped from the Olympic program.\n\nAt the IOC meeting on July 7, 2005, baseball and softball were voted out of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, United Kingdom, becoming the first sports voted out of the Olympics since polo was eliminated from the 1936 Olympics. The elimination excised 16 teams and more than 300 athletes from the 2012 Olympics. The two slots left available by the IOC's elimination were subsequently filled by golf and rugby sevens in 2016. This decision was reaffirmed on February 9, 2006.\nIn the stands during the 2008 bronze medal game between the U.S. and Japan, IOC head Jacques Rogge was interviewed by MLB.com's Mark Newman and cited various criteria for baseball to earn its way back in: \"To be on the Olympic program is an issue where you need universality as much as possible. You need to have a sport with a following, you need to have the best players and you need to be in strict compliance with WADA (World Anti-Doping Agency). And these are the qualifications that have to be met. When you have all that, you have to win hearts. You can win the mind, but you still must win hearts.\"\nIt was officially decided in August 2009 at the IOC Board meeting in Berlin that baseball would also not be included in the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nOn April 1, 2011, the IBAF and the International Softball Federation announced they were preparing a joint proposal to revive play of both sports at the 2020 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn August 2011, Olympic news source Around the Rings reported that the ISF and IBAF would not rush into an Olympic proposal, and that the IBAF was working on forming a temporary commission to analyze the prospect of a joint proposal. \"In the past, baseball and softball were running alone, and the result was that baseball and softball stayed out,\" IBAF president Riccardo Fraccari said in reference to their decades-long push for Olympic inclusion.\n\nOn September 8, 2013, the International Olympic Committee voted to reinstate wrestling, defeating the combined baseball-softball bid for the 2020 Summer Olympics.\n\nUnder new IOC policies that shift the Games to an \"event-based\" programme rather than sport-based, the host organizing committee can now also propose the addition of sports to the programme alongside the permanent \"core\" events. A second bid for baseball-softball to be included as an event in 2020 was shortlisted by the Tokyo Organizing Committee on 22 June 2015. On 3 August 2016 during the 129th IOC Session in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the IOC approved the Tokyo Organizing Committee's final shortlist of five sports, which included baseball, to be included in the programme during the 2020 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe host nation was always guaranteed a place in the Olympic baseball tournament. The other seven places were generally determined by continental qualifying tournaments. For the 2008 Games, the Americas received two places, Europe received one place, and Asia received one place.\n\nThe final three places were given to the top three nations at an eight-team tournament held after the continental tournaments. Qualification for this tournament was determined by those continental tournaments. The third and fourth place American teams, second and third place European teams, second and third place Asian teams, first place African team, and first place Oceania team competed in that tournament.\n\nThis qualification tournament was new for 2008. It was created after heavy criticism of the previous qualification standard. In previous Olympics, only two teams from the Americas were able to qualify for the Olympics, despite the fact that the vast majority of the top baseball-playing nations in the world came from this region. Europe, whose baseball nations were substantially weaker, also entered two teams.\n\nOlympic baseball was nearly identical to most professional baseball. Aluminum bats were disallowed after 1996 Atlanta. There was also a mercy rule that was invoked if a team was winning by 10 or more runs after 7 innings (or 6.5 innings if the home team was leading). For Sydney 2000, rosters were expanded to 24 players.\n\nThe tournament consisted of a round-robin preliminary round in which each team played all 7 of the other teams. Only the top four teams advanced to the medals round. In that round, semifinals were played between the 1st/4th place teams and the 2nd/3rd place teams. The semifinal losers then played a bronze medal game, with the winner earning the medal and the loser receiving 4th place. The semifinal winners played in the final, which awarded the winner a gold medal and the loser a silver medal.\n\nDuring the 2008 games a unique rule went into effect during games which went into extra innings. If the game was still tied after the completion of the tenth inning base runners were automatically placed on first and second base with no outs. IBAF created this rule to encourage scoring late in the game in order to determine a winner and to address criticisms from the IOC that a baseball game's length was unpredictable.\n\nThe following 17 nations took part in the baseball competition. The numbers in the table refer to the final rank of each team in each tournament.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1856203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856203", "title": "Monster Energy", "text": "Monster Energy\n\nMonster Energy is an energy drink that was introduced by Hansen Natural Company (now Monster Beverage Corporation) in April of 2002. There are 34 different drinks under the Monster brand in North America, including its core Monster Energy line, Java Monster, Extra Strength, Import, Rehab and Muscle Monster.\n\nThe company is also known for supporting many extreme sports events such as Bellator MMA, Ultimate Fighting Championship, Moto GP, Nascar, BMX, motocross, speedway, skateboarding and snowboarding, as well as electronic sports. In collaboration with Outbreak Presents, Monster Energy promotes a number of music bands around the world, like Fetty Wap, Iggy Azalea, 21 Savage, Asking Alexandria, Anthrax, The Word Alive, Machine Gun Kelly, Suicidal Tendencies, Maximum the Hormone, Korn, and Five Finger Death Punch. Monster currently sponsors the FIA World Rallycross Championship, and the PBR: Unleash the Beast Professional Bull Riders tour, in addition to sponsoring the bag of professional golfer Tiger Woods.\n\nThe caffeine content of most Monster Energy drinks is approximately 10 mg/oz (33.81 mg / 100 mL), or 160 mg for a 16 oz can. The packaging usually contains a warning label advising consumers against drinking more than 48 oz per day (16 oz per day in Australia). The drinks are not recommended for pregnant women or people sensitive to caffeine. The ingredients include carbonated water, sucrose, glucose, citric acid, natural flavors, taurine, sodium citrate, color added, panax ginseng root extract, -carnitine, -tartarate, caffeine, sorbic acid, benzoic acid, niacinamide, sodium chloride, Glycine max glucuronolactone, inositol, guarana seed extract, pyridoxine hydrochloride, sucralose, riboflavin, maltodextrin, and cyanocobalamin.\n\nMonster Energy is advertised mainly through sponsorship of sporting events, including motocross, BMX, mountain biking, snowboarding, skateboarding, car racing, speedway, and also through sponsorship of esports events.\n\nIn 2006, Caleb (Strongjaw) Johnstone Corporation announced a distribution agreement with Anheuser-Busch in the United States and Grupo Jumex in Mexico.\n\nMonster became the title sponsor of NASCAR's top series starting with the 2017 season, renaming it to the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series. The name lasted through 2019; although Monster offered to extend the sponsorship, NASCAR rejected it in favor of a new sponsorship model.\n\nIn 2012, Colton Lile Corporation announced that they were switching distributors from Anheuser-Busch to Coca-Cola.\n\nThe design was created by McLean Design, a California-based strategic branding firm. The logo is composed of a vibrant green ″M″, composed of three lines on a field of black. The ″M″ is stylized in such a way as to imply that it is formed by the claws of a monster ripping through the can. \n\nIn August 2017, Monster renewed a sponsorship with mixed martial arts champion Conor McGregor. McGregor had been a Monster-endorsed athlete since 2015, showcasing the green \"M\" logo on his shorts. Other notable MMA athletes sponsored by Monster Energy include Cain Velasquez and Jon \"Bones\" Jones.\n\nIn November 2012, Monster Energy announced a long-term partnership with the Professional Bull Riders, and sponsors top athletes including J. B. Mauney, Guilherme Marchi, and Derek Kolbaba. Starting in 2018, Monster Energy became the title sponsor of the PBR's premiership tour, known as the \"Unleash the Beast\" tour.\n\nMonster has served as the official energy drink sponsor of multiple X Games contests, most recently the 2017 summer games in Minneapolis and the 2017 winter games in Aspen. A number of athletes on the Monster Energy team regularly compete in the X Games, including skateboarders Nyjah Huston, Ishod Wair and Chris Cole.\n\nX Games winter athletes sponsored by Monster include three-time gold medal-winning skier David Wise, Olympic freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy and Olympic gold medalist snowboarder Iouri Podladtchikov.\n\nIn December 2016, it was announced that Monster Energy would replace outgoing Sprint Corporation as the title sponsor of NASCAR's premier series. NASCAR's chief marketing officer cited Monster's \"youthful and edgy\" brand as a driving force behind the deal, as NASCAR seeks to build its younger audience and bolster the sport's long term health. In April 2019, it was reported that NASCAR rejected Monster Energy's offer to extend its sponsorship through 2020 in favor of a new tiered sponsorship model.\n\nMonster is endorsed by driver Kurt Busch and sponsors his No. 1 Chip Ganassi Racing car. Prior to joining Stewart-Haas Racing and then Chip Ganassi Racing, Monster had sponsored the likes of Robby Gordon, Ricky Carmichael, and the No. 54 Xfinity Series car of Joe Gibbs Racing/Kyle Busch Motorsports.\n\nMercedes-AMG Petronas Motorsport has been sponsored by Monster since 2010 and are currently endorsed by Valtteri Bottas and six time world champion Lewis Hamilton.\n\nThe company was endorsed by Australian touring car driver Jamie Whincup from late 2009 to 2012. The deal was cancelled abruptly for the 2013 season, when his team Triple Eight signed rival company Red Bull as title sponsor. Monster is now associated with Tickford Racing as the primary sponsor of Cameron Waters Ford Mustang Supercar.\n\nMonster has also sponsored several rally drivers and motocross riders, such as Ken Block, Liam Doran, Nani Roma, Jeremy McGrath, Chad Reed, Ryan Villopoto, Ricky Carmichael, Nate Adams and Taka Higashino. Monster Energy also sponsors multiple motocross race teams named \"Monster Energy/Pro Circuit/Kawasaki\", and the Monster Energy Factory Yamaha motocross team, based in Hampshire, England. As of 2016, Monster has aided the return of factory Yamaha to United States as the title sponsor of the team, officially named Monster Energy/360fly/Chaparral/Yamaha Factory Racing.\n\nOn January 6, 2012, the Monster Energy Monster Jam truck was debuted in Birmingham, Alabama. It is currently campaigned by drivers Todd LeDuc and Coty Saucier.\n\nMonster Energy has been the title sponsor of the French motorcycle Grand Prix since 2010.\n\nSince 2012, Monster Energy has been the main sponsor of the Speedway Grand Prix and Speedway World Cup.\n\nIn June 2015, Monster Energy agreed to a sponsorship deal with Zayat Stables to sponsor the race horse for an undisclosed sum, rumored to be the largest single-horse advertising sponsorship to-date. The deal allows the product's logo to be used on the horse sheets, on jockey Victor Espinoza's shirt and boots, as well as caps and other gear worn by people around the horse. \"The energy and excitement that has generated around the world syncs perfectly with the brand.\"\n\nSince 2010, Monster Energy has been the main sponsor of Formula Drift champion Vaughn Gittin Jr.\n\nMonster Energy also sponsors several individuals in the esports community, as well as esports associations. The company broke into esports with their sponsorship of Evil Geniuses, one of the premiere North American multi-game organizations. Monster Energy is affiliated with esports in North America, Asia, Europe, and Australia. Some of the organizations and individuals they support or have supported include the Australian organization \"MindFreak\", Paris Saint-Germain eSports, and the streamer TimTheTatman.\n\nMonster Beverage Corporation has been criticized for its policy of suing companies or groups that use the word \"Monster\", the letter \"M\", or the word \"beast\" in their marketing for trademark infringement. By 2019, the company has initiated over a thousand trademark cases that have been reviewed by the US court system or US Patent and Trademark Office’s (USPTO) Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, making them a poster child for \"trademark bullying\" which the USPTO defines as \"a trademark owner that uses its trademark rights to harass and intimidate another business beyond what the law might be reasonably interpreted to allow.\" Examples of such lawsuits include the aquarium hobbyist site MonsterFishKeepers.com, Bevreview.com, a beverage review site that published an unfavorable review of the Monster Energy drink and Rock Art Brewery from Vermont that marketed a beer named \"Vermonster\". That case was even brought up by Senator Patrick Leahy in a study of problematic trademark litigation tactics. Monster Beverage dropped the lawsuit against the microbrewery due to the adverse publicity the lawsuit generated. \n\nIn March 2016, Monster filed a lawsuit to revoke the company trademark of Thunder Beast LLC of Washington, D.C., a small root beer brewery, insisting the use of “beast” in the company name encroached on Monster’s trademark slogan, \"Unleash the Beast\". The owner of Thunder Beast, Stephen Norberg, was fighting Monster’s lawsuit as of 2019.\n\nIn August 2018, Monsta Pizza of Wendover in Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom, fought a claim brought by Monster Energy in the intellectual property office. The claim was that the pizza firm could be mistaken for Monster Energy, leaving customers confused. The pizza firm won a landmark ruling against Monster Energy, when the court decided there would be no case of misrepresentation. In fact, Monster Energy loses many of their lawsuits, however as with other cases of \"trademark bullying\" the main goal of the lawsuit seem to be bankrupting the opposition at which they are quite successful.\n\nOccasionally Monster Energy is on the other side of copyright infringement lawsuit. \nFor example, in August 2012, the Beastie Boys filed a lawsuit against the company for copyright infringement over Monster's use of their music in an online campaign. In 2014, a jury found Monster Beverage Corporation had infringed on Beastie Boys' copyright by using songs without permission, and owed the group $1.7 million.\n\nOn January 24, 2018, \"Huffington Post\" journalist Emily Peck published an article reporting the suspected corrupted culture of abuse against women within the company such as Page Zeringue and Sara Rabuse.\n\nZeringue began working for Monster Energy Company in February 2008 and was terminated in October 2015 after filing a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana against Monster Energy Company, claiming that the beverage company violated Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 She says she suffered gender discrimination and was subjected to sexual harassment in a hostile work environment. Monster was accused of being fully aware of the situation. \n\nIn June 2017, Sara Rabuse of Los Angeles County filed a personal injury claim against Monster Energy Company executive, Brent Hamilton, and his employer, Monster Energy Corporation. Rabuse is suing for damages while she was violently attacked during a Monster Energy work function Hamilton invited her to attend. Rabuse Claims Hamilton, Executive of the Monster Energy Music Department, flew her from Los Angeles to meet him at the Country Music Awards in Nashville at Monster Energy’s Company expense. When she arrived in Nashville at the airport, he was drunk. Sara Rabuse claims the heavy drinking led to a fight in the hotel room, where Hamilton choked her. Rabuse claims the only way to free herself from Hamilton's grasp was to poke him in the eye, but when she did, Hamilton bit her thumb. Rabuse claimed the bite got infected, forcing her to spend 24 hours in the hospital. Rabuse holds Monster Energy Company responsible because the company allegedly knew of Hamilton's drinking problem and ignored it. Hamilton was ousted from the company in May 2019. \n\nEnergy drinks have been associated with health risks, such as masking the effects of intoxication when consumed with alcohol, and excessive or repeated consumption can lead to cardiac and psychiatric conditions. However, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) concluded that an adequate consumption of Monster and other popular energy drinks is safe and that the amount of caffeine in standard Monster cans is unlikely to interact adversely with other typical constituents of energy drinks or with alcohol. Energy drinks have the effects that caffeine and sugar give, but there is no distinct evidence that the wide variety of other ingredients has any effect.\n\nIn December 2011, 14-year-old Anais Fournier died of \"cardiac arrhythmia due to caffeine toxicity\" after drinking two cans of Monster Energy drink containing 240 mg of caffeine per can. Fournier had a pre-existing heart condition, as well as Ehlers–Danlos syndrome. In October 2012, her parents sued the company. Monster Energy has insisted that its energy drink played no role in Fournier's death. A request under the U.S. Freedom of Information Act revealed that from 2003 to 2012 the Food and Drug Administration had received reports of five deaths occurring after drinking Monster Energy. The reports did not prove a causal link between the drink and any health problems.\n\nIn May 2015, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) banned the sale of Monster and other energy drinks that contained both caffeine and ginseng.\n\nChristine Weick, a controversial and outspoken American Christian activist and author, created a video that argued that Monster Energy sports drinks is associated with Satan. The November 2014 video was published on YouTube, garnering over eleven million views as of 2018. The viral nature of the video got her an appearance on the Web Redemption segment of Comedy Central's \"Tosh.0\".\n\nMonster Energy is often seen with the 4chan Internet Meme, the 30-Year-Old Boomer, which mocks older millennials who were born in the late 80s-early 90s. The meme features a man with sunglasses and a scruff beard smiling while holding a can of Monster Energy Ultra Zero and talking about how older games and music were better than what's in today. The character's sunglasses has also been used in parodies of video game characters in which these parody pictures show the characters holding a Monster Energy can.\n\nThe energy drink also features in the video game Death Stranding, in which it restores the stamina and can be consumed by the main character in his private room.\n"}
{"id": "1856206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856206", "title": "König Brewery", "text": "König Brewery\n\nKönig Brewery is a brewery situated in Beeck, a neighborhood of Duisburg, Germany that brews the well-known König Pilsener (known in colloquial German as \"KöPi\").\n\nTheodor König was born in 1825 at Üppenhagen (known today as Selm-Cappenberg); in 1858, he opened a brewery in the country district of Beeck which, at that time, did not yet form part of the city of Duisburg. He brewed lager in the Pilsener style, despite the fact that this bottom-fermented style of beer was relatively unpopular at the time. First records of König Pilsener appear in 1911. At first, König Pilsener was known for its bitter hoppiness; later, the beer was adapted to the requirements of a premium lager intended for mass consumption.\n\nOn 1 February 2000, König Brewery became a subsidiary of the Holsten Group; this group was then sold to Denmark's Carlsberg in 2004. Carlsberg broke up the Holsten Group, selling the König and Licher breweries to Bitburger.\n\nThe brewery's most popular beer is König Pilsener. König Alt, a beer brewed in the Rhineland Altbier style, was developed in the 1970s, but then discontinued along with König Export and König Malz, a malt beer. New products include the alcohol-free Kelts beer, renamed König Pilsener Alkoholfrei in 2005. From 2006 to 2011, a beer-lemonade mix was available under the name König Pilsener Lemon. In 2011, the production of König Pilsener Lemon was discontinued and a new beer-lemonade mix was introduced under the name of König Pilsener Radler.\nKönig Brewery sponsors several sports teams in the Rhine-Ruhr region. König Pilsener appears on the ice hockey kit of EV Duisburg and is also the official sponsor of the Nordkurve terraces at the MSV Duisburg football stadium. The brewery advertises elsewhere in the stadium, as well as in the Georg-Melches stadium in the neighbouring city of Essen. The brewery lends its name to the König-Pilsener-Arena in Oberhausen, just east of Duisburg, and the KönigPALAST multi-purpose sports arena in nearby Krefeld.\n\nActor, director and producer Til Schweiger is a corporate representative for König Pilsener. He has appeared on billboard advertising, in print and on television. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856211", "title": "Cold Turkey", "text": "Cold Turkey\n\n\"Cold Turkey\" is a song written by Engish singer-songwriter John Lennon, released as a single in 1969 by the Plastic Ono Band on Apple Records, catalogue Apples 1001 in the United Kingdom, Apple 1813 in the United States. It is the second solo single issued by Lennon, and it peaked at number 30 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 14 on the UK Singles Chart. The song's first appearance on an album was \"Live Peace in Toronto 1969\" where the song had been performed live on 13 September 1969 with Lennon reading the lyrics off a clip-board.\n\nAccording to Peter Brown in his book \"The Love You Make\", the song was written in a \"creative outburst\" following Lennon and Yoko Ono going \"cold turkey\" from their brief heroin addictions. However, Lennon's personal assistant in the late 1970s, Fred Seaman, claimed otherwise, stating that Lennon confided in him that the song was actually about a severe case of food poisoning suffered by John and Yoko after eating Christmas leftovers \"cold turkey\". Lennon thought people would laugh at him if they knew the truth about the song's origin, so he said it was inspired by his recent heroin withdrawal. Brown states that Lennon presented the song to Paul McCartney as a potential single by The Beatles, as they were finishing recording for their \"Abbey Road\" album, but it was refused and eventually released as a Plastic Ono Band single with sole writing credits to him.\n\n\"Cold Turkey\" was the first song Lennon wrote for which he took sole credit; his previous compositions, including his first single release, \"Give Peace a Chance\", were attributed to the Lennon–McCartney partnership, although the credit for \"Give Peace a Chance\" was later changed to Lennon alone. \"Cold Turkey\" was recorded in Abbey Road Studio 2, and features Eric Clapton. There are other versions besides the single, several of which are acoustic, and a live version included on Live in New York City that features Ono adding vocalizations.\n\nThe single was released with a standard green Apple label, with the words \"Play Loud\" printed on the spindle plug of the UK pressing and above and beneath the spindle hole of the US pressing. This instruction would also appear on the labels of Lennon's next solo single, \"Instant Karma!\"\n\n\"Cold Turkey\" rose to number 14 on the UK Singles Chart on 15 November 1969. On 22 November, \"Cold Turkey\" dropped to number 15, and on 25 November Lennon returned his MBE to Buckingham Palace saying \"I am returning this MBE in protest against Britain's involvement in the Nigeria-Biafra thing, against our support of America in Vietnam, and against Cold Turkey slipping down the charts. With love, John Lennon of Bag.\" In March 2005, \"Q\" magazine placed \"Cold Turkey\" at number 74 in its list of the 100 Greatest Guitar Tracks.\n\nThe original single cover art features Lennon's head with glasses on an X-ray image. An alternative sleeve with the X-ray photographs of John and Yoko side by side, rather than on either side of the cover, was issued in several European countries. The Japanese version includes a colour photo of both in a smaller size.\n\nIts first public performance on September 13, 1969, was recorded and released on the \"Live Peace in Toronto 1969\" album by Plastic Ono Band which included Lennon, Yoko Ono, Eric Clapton, Klaus Voormann, and Alan White. Yoko introduced it as the newest song written by John; John added that the band had never played the song together as a group before. He also performed this song on 15 December 1969, along with \"Don't Worry Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking for Her Hand in the Snow)\", at the Lyceum Ballroom with more members of the Plastic Ono Band. This version would be available on his \"Some Time in New York City\" album. Lennon performed the song again, at two Madison Square Garden shows, on 30 August 1972.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856213", "title": "Norea", "text": "Norea\n\nNorea is a figure in Gnostic cosmology. Sometimes she is said to be the syzygy of Adam, or wife of Noah, and daughter of Eve. Norea is perceived within gnostic thought as Sophia after her fall from grace.\n\nFor a long time, Norea was known from a summary of a book called \"Noria\" in the \"Panarion\" (\"Against Heresies\") of Epiphanius of Salamis (26.1.3-9). According to Epiphanius, the Borborites identified Norea with Pyrrha, the wife of Deucalion (a Greek figure similar to Noah), because \"nura\" means \"fire\" in Syriac. She burned Noah's Ark three times, then revealed the means of recovering stolen sparks through sexual emissions. Elsewhere (39.5.2) Epiphanius says that the Sethians consider Horaia to be the wife of Seth.\n\nMore information has been available since the discovery of the Nag Hammadi library in 1945. In \"The Hypostasis of the Archons\" (\"The Reality of the Rulers\"), Norea is the daughter of Eve and the younger sister of Seth; both are members of the pure race. The archons decide to destroy the world with a deluge, but their leader, the Demiurge, warns Noah to build an ark, which Norea tries to board. Noah stops her, so she blows upon the ark and sets it ablaze. The rulers try to rape her, but she cries to the God of the Entirety for help. The angel Eleleth appears and frightens the rulers away before revealing her origins; she is a child of the spirit.\n\nAnother Nag Hammadi text, the \"Thought of Norea\" (or \"Ode on Norea\") is a first-person account of Norea's plea to God. \"On the Origin of the World\" refers the reader to an \"Account of Oraia\" and the \"First Book of Noraia\", one of which may be the same as the Book of Noria mentioned by Epiphanius.\n\nShe has several similar names, including Orea and Horaia, meaning \"beautiful\". The name is thought to derive from a translation of Naamah, a Hebrew name which means \"pleasant\". The demon Naamah is called \"the younger Lilith\". Both Norea and Lilith call upon God to avoid an unwanted sexual encounter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856225", "title": "Peter Caras", "text": "Peter Caras\n\nPeter Caras (born April 11, 1941) is an illustrator. He studied at the Art Institute of Pittsburgh and the Art Students League of New York and was instructed by Frank Reilley, James Bama and Norman Rockwell. He is the creator of over 1,700 book and magazine covers.\n"}
{"id": "1856226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856226", "title": "Anthony Simcoe", "text": "Anthony Simcoe\n\nAnthony Simcoe (born 7 June 1969) is an Australian actor, best known for his portrayal of Steve Kerrigan in the 1997 film \"The Castle\" and Ka D'Argo in the science fiction television series \"Farscape\".\n\nThe 1.98m (6 ft 6 in) Simcoe is a graduate of the National Institute of Dramatic Arts in Sydney. He holds an MFA in Drama, specializing in actor training.\n\nSimcoe gained international fame when he was cast as Ka D'Argo in \"Farscape.\" He was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Television Series in 2002 for his work on the show. He has also appeared in several other television series including \"Chameleon\". He also does an appearance in the short film \"Syntax Error\".\n\nBetween acting roles he works as a freelance corporate trainer. He also performs in the band \"Signal Room\" (formerly known as The Giant Killers, and Number 96). He has two sons, Willem Lee and Jackson Ty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856228", "title": "Stanisław Koniecpolski (died 1682)", "text": "Stanisław Koniecpolski (died 1682)\n\nStanisław Koniecpolski (born after 1643, died 1682) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nStanisław became Camp Leader of the Crown in 1676, voivode of Podole Voivodeship in 1679, castellan of Kraków in 1682 and starost of Belz.\n\nStanisław Koniecpolski was married to Eugenia Katarzyna Wiśniowiecka. He died childless.\n"}
{"id": "1856234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856234", "title": "The Weinstein Company", "text": "The Weinstein Company\n\nThe Weinstein Company (usually credited or abbreviated as TWC) was an American independent film studio, founded in New York City by Bob and Harvey Weinstein in 2005. TWC was one of the largest mini-major film studios in North America prior to the firing of Harvey Weinstein following allegations of sexual harassment and assault against him, as well as financial troubles that followed. The studio eventually declared bankruptcy in February 2018, with independent studio Lantern Entertainment acquiring a majority of its film library and assets. Founder and chief executive Bob Weinstein previously owned a small stake in the company.\n\nThe company dismissed joint founder and chief executive Harvey Weinstein in October 2017, after over 100 women came forward to accuse him of sexual harassment, assault or rape.\n\nOn February 26, 2018, The Weinstein Company announced in a statement that it would declare bankruptcy following the collapse of a buyout deal with an investor group led by Maria Contreras-Sweet. However, the TWC board and the investor group confirmed on March 1, 2018, that they had reached a deal in which TWC would sell all of its assets for US$500 million. On March 6, 2018, the acquisition deal collapsed again after the studio had an extra debt of US$50 million revealed. The company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 19, 2018. On May 1, 2018, Lantern Capital emerged as the winner of the studio's bankruptcy auction.\n\nThe Weinstein Company launched on March 15, 2005 after Harvey and Bob Weinstein left Miramax Films, which they co-founded in 1979. They retained ownership of Dimension Films. Their first releases in 2005 included the dramatic thriller \"Derailed\" (starring Jennifer Aniston, Vincent Cassel and Clive Owen), the offbeat comedy-drama \"Transamerica\" (starring Felicity Huffman) the computer-animated family film \"Hoodwinked\", the World War II–era comedy-drama \"Mrs Henderson Presents\" (starring Judi Dench and Bob Hoskins), and the caper comedy \"The Matador\" (starring Pierce Brosnan and Greg Kinnear).\n\nIn February 2006, TWC announced a distribution pact with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. MGM distributed the product domestically in theatres, while TWC retained long-term ownership of their product. On July 13, 2006, the Weinsteins and Robert L. Johnson announced the creation of a joint venture studio titled Our Stories Films, which will distribute African-American-oriented films. In late August 2006, it was announced that TWC and co-investors Hubbard Media Group purchased Ovation TV, an arts-focused cable channel. In November 2006, TWC announced a three-year deal with Blockbuster Video to give the video renting company exclusive rights for rentals starting on January 1, 2007. However, under the First Sale Doctrine of United States copyright law, other rental companies are able to rent copies of the company's movies purchased at retail.\n\nThe company is the co-producer, along with Miramax, of the Lifetime reality series \"Project Runway\", which for its first five seasons aired on Bravo. The series won a Peabody Award in 2007.\n\nOn May 23, 2007, the Weinstein Company announced the launch of three new direct-to-video labels: The Miriam Collection, Kaleidoscope TWC, and Dimension Extreme.\n\nOn February 8, 2008, TWC launched a distributor called Third Rail Releasing that released films aimed mainly at the home video market. On September 25, 2008, TWC ended its three-year distribution pact with MGM three months before the December 31 end date. This happened in part because TWC had struck a television output deal with Showtime, though not through MGM's output deal with them. During the span of their pact, TWC paid for marketing and prints, while MGM received a distribution fee for booking theatres.\n\nIn June 2009, the Weinstein Company announced the hiring of a financial adviser to restructure the finances of the company. Since July 2009, many layoffs occurred at TWC, and the release dates of some films were pushed back. On September 14, 2009, TWC sold its stake in Genius Products, which served as TWC's home video distributor from 2006 to 2009. Genius however, had announced to exit the home video distribution business and the DVD rights that were distributed by Genius were sold to Vivendi Entertainment. TWC also struck a deal with Vivendi. The same year, it won a Peabody Award for \"The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency\".\n\nIn January 2010, TWC announced more layoffs at the company after the box office failure of \"Nine\". On February 21, 2010, The Weinstein Company made a deal with Sony Pictures Home Entertainment releasing the DVDs through Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions Group. Bob and Harvey Weinstein attempted to buy back Miramax from Disney in 2010, but the attempt was unsuccessful.\n\nAn ownership interest in TWC's library at that point, consisting of 200 titles, was sold off to Goldman Sachs and Assured Guaranty in 2010. The sale freed TWC from bankruptcy. Goldman Sachs' stake in the library was purchased by AMC Networks in 2015. According to \"Deadline Hollywood\": \"The library will revert to the Weinstein Company itself when the remaining debt has been paid off by the films in question.\"\n\nOn January 4, 2011, the Weinstein Company has agreed to acquire a 25% stake in Starz Media. Because of this, Starz Media subsidiary Anchor Bay Entertainment became the home video distributor for all TWC films. On February 3, 2011, the Weinsteins extracted a $75 million consolation prize from their former parent company, Disney, thus improving their filmmaking career. As a result, Disney handed over its 50% stake in \"Project Runaway\", and reduced its share in four jointly owned films, including \"Scary Movie\" and \"Spy Kids\", from 50% to 5%. On February 27, 2011, TWC's distributed film \"The King's Speech\" brought to the company their first Academy Award for Best Picture at the 83rd Annual Academy Awards, after their last Best Picture Oscar winner \"Chicago\" won in 2002 when Bob and Harvey Weinstein were at Miramax, controlled by then corporate owner Disney, and their previous Best Picture nominees for TWC were 2008's \"The Reader\" and 2009's \"Inglourious Basterds\", the latter film a co-production with Universal Pictures and A Band Apart. In March 2011, the company formed a video game division named TWC Games. TWC Games formed a strategic consultancy with Beefy Media, a video game production company, to foster relationships with publishers and create high-quality games.\n\nOn February 26, 2012, after TWC's purchase of the rights to release Michel Hazanavicius' \"The Artist\" in the United States, which won the prestigious Best Actor Award at the Cannes Film Festival for Jean Dujardin, \"The Artist\" won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture. This is the second consecutive Oscar for Best Picture awarded to the Weinstein Company. The last independent mini-major to win back-to-back Oscars for Best Picture was Orion Pictures for their films \"Dances with Wolves\" in 1990 and \"The Silence of the Lambs\" in 1991.\n\nTWC distributes films on multiple formats (including video-on-demand) through its Radius-TWC brand. In September 2013, Bob and Harvey Weinstein launched the TWC-Dimension label to distribute projects of mutual interest.\n\nOn November 4, 2013, TWC announced they have picked up U.S. distribution rights to the British drama series \"Peaky Blinders\" from Endemol.\n\nIn December 2013, Miramax and TWC entered a 20-year joint-venture agreement to develop and produce films, TV series, and stage shows. The deal will allow the Weinsteins to exploit the 700-film Miramax library. Sequels to \"Rounders\" and \"Shakespeare in Love\" are among the films being developed under this new deal, and series based on \"Good Will Hunting\" and \"Flirting with Disaster\" are being planned as well. Other developments include a Stephen Colbert-written film titled \"The Alibi\", and an adaptation of Liz Jensen's novel \"The 9th Life of Louis Drax\", that late filmmakers Anthony Minghella and Sydney Pollack intended to make. Miramax will put up the financing and handle international sales while The Weinstein Company will develop the projects and distribute the titles domestically.\n\nIn May 2014, the company entered into a five-year multi-picture financing agreement with Worldview Entertainment. However, Worldview financed only the period drama \"Tulip Fever\" due to financial difficulties as a result of the departure of CEO, Christopher Woodrow.\n\nIn April 2015, The Weinstein Company was closing in on a deal to sell its TV division to British network ITV for $950 million but the deal was grounded in May. That same year, the company announced that around 40–50 layoffs would occur due to the box office failure of the comedy-drama \"Burnt\" among other factors. Shortly after, TWC announced they would no longer release the normal 18 films per year, instead the company will release 8–10 films per year, and will make fewer acquisitions at film festivals.\n\nIn July 2015, TWC COO and president David Glasser briefly left the company amid a string of company exits, but then in September, he rejoined the company and will stay as its COO and president until 2018. Harvey Weinstein also openly expressed interest in reacquiring Miramax and merging the film and TV libraries of both companies when the latter went up for sale in July. On February 2016, TWC decided to put its film library of 520 titles as well as a majority stake in its TV division up for sale, and later signed investment banks Moelis & Co and Thomas Dey’s ACF Investment Bank to handle the TV sale (which was resumed nine months after the failed talks with ITV) by looking for strategic investors. Meanwhile in March, Miramax has been acquired by BeIN Media Group, but in a later July interview however, Weinstein said that he's still interested in merging TWC with Miramax and combining the two companies' libraries in order to build a larger film library, even after the BeIN acquisition. In June 2016, James L. Dolan exited TWC's board of directors and is replaced by hedge fund billionaire and Milwaukee Bucks co-owner Marc Lasry. Later on August 1, Opus Bank's media and entertainment banking division funded a $400 million credit facility into TWC.\n\nOn August 18, 2017, TWC launched Mizchief, a film label dedicated to producing animated films. When Harvey Weinstein, co-founder of TWC, was explaining on the origin of the name of Mizchief, he said that it was based on how one of his kids pronounced the word, \"Mischief\". The first film to be released under the label was the French-Canadian computer-animated film \"Leap!\", released on August 25, 2017.\n\nOn October 5, 2017, \"The New York Times\" reported that dozens of women, including more than 60 women in the film industry, had accused Harvey Weinstein of sexual harassment, sexual assault or rape.\n\nOn October 6, three of the company's nine members of the board of directors (including Lasry) resigned after the allegations were published. Harvey Weinstein also announced that he would take an indefinite leave of absence. On October 7, Paul Tudor Jones became the fourth member of the company's board of directors to resign.\n\nOn October 8, TWC announced that Weinstein had been fired. Soon after, TWC executives announced that Harvey Weinstein will not receive credit on upcoming releases, and it may consider renaming the company. On October 12, board of directors member Richard Koenigsberg, who was one of the four signatories of a board of directors statement defending Weinstein, resigned from the company as well.\n\nBob Weinstein stated on October 13 that media reports that his brother's sexual misconduct scandal had forced the company to explore either a sale or shutting down operations were inaccurate. Bob released an emailed statement claiming \"our banks, partners and shareholders are fully supportive of our company and it is untrue that the company or board is exploring a sale or shutdown of the company” and that “business is continuing as usual as the company moves ahead.” This was contradicted by TWC president and COO David Glasser and a spokesman for company investor Goldman Sachs. Glasser and the other two remaining members of the company's board of directors also did not join Bob in signing this statement either.\n\nOn October 17, \"The Mist\" producer Amanda Segel accused Bob Weinstein of sexual harassment. His lawyer Bert Fields has denied the accusations.\n\nBert Fields and colleague Charles Shephard petitioned a court to leave a rights dispute in which Greenberg Glusker Fields was representing The Weinstein Company due to unpaid bills on December 14, 2017. The firm underscored that it is not involved in the ongoing sexual scandals.\n\n\"TWC has failed to pay Greenberg Glusker for its legal services in this matter and has stated that it will be unable to pay for its services as the cases [sic] progresses,\" writes Shephard in a Wednesday filing. The attorneys also note that TWC has been a Greenberg Glusker client for a long time. So, when the firm was asked to handle this matter, it agreed – even though, at that time, TWC already owed the firm substantial money for prior services.\n\n\"Because of the manner in which plaintiff was pursuing the case, because of the size of Greenberg Glusker's receivable, and because of some new and significant issues unrelated to this litigation which had arisen and with which TWC was required to deal (issues that have received a lot of national press and issues which do not involve Greenberg Glusker in any way, and in which Greenberg Glusker played no role whatsoever), Greenberg Glusker became concerned about being paid for its services,\" states the filing.\n\nBob Weinstein told Greenberg Glusker TWC would make a substantial payment on November 20, but it never came, according to the filing, and TWC executive vice president Sarah Sobel later told the firm TWC wouldn't be able to pay. \nBert Fields and several other attorneys at the Greenberg Glusker Fields law firm represented The Weinstein Company from 2005 to December 2017.\n\nReuters reported on October 16, 2017 that TWC had entered talks with private equity firm Colony Capital for the sale of its assets. On November 7, 2017, Colony Capital pulled out of acquiring The Weinstein Company. Other persons and companies that had expressed interest in acquiring TWC included rapper Jay-Z, Yucaipa Companies, Viacom, Lionsgate (the current home video distributor of TWC and Miramax), Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (the former U.S theatrical distributor of TWC), A&E Networks, Administrator of the Small Business Administration Maria Contreras-Sweet, Killer Content, Shamrock Holdings, Vine Alternative Investments, Anchorage Capital Group, MSD Capital, beIN Media Group (the current owner of Miramax), Sony Pictures Television, and Versa. Contreras-Sweet had proposed turning TWC into a studio run by women, while Killer Content would donate the studio's profits to assault victims. If anyone acquired The Weinstein Company, the studio would change its name, and Bob Weinstein agreed to leave the company; he was expected to retain the Dimension Films label. All the interested parties had to submit their first-round bids by December 20, 2017. On January 4, 2018, The Weinstein Company narrowed its bids down to six parties, with a sales price of below $500 million. The studio's owners would not receive any cash from the sale.\n\nAs of November 8, 2017, The Weinstein Company had a debt load of $520 million, including $220 million from its film and TV credit facilities, $150 million from production loans, $50 million in corporate debt and $100 million owed to performers. The studio expected to find a buyer without declaring for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, against the expectations of most of the interested parties. After it appeared that talks collapsed, the company announced it would file for bankruptcy. However, after continued negotiations in which New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman played a role, the TWC board reached a deal in which TWC seold all of its assets for $500 million; after the sales were finalized, the company was renamed and got a new board of directors of which a majority were women. However, after an additional $50 million in debt was revealed, the deal collapsed again.\n\nIn order to raise funds, TWC has sold the rights to three of its films, \"Paddington 2\", \"In the Heights\", and \"The Six Billion Dollar Man\", to Warner Bros. On January 19, 2018, TWC indefinitely postponed the releases of three of its films (\"The War with Grandpa\", \"The Upside\", \"Mary Magdalene\"). STX Entertainment later acquired the distribution rights to \"The Upside\".\n\nAs of February 2018, several companies had sued TWC, including American Express ($1.4 million), chocolatier Lindt & Sprüngli ($133,333), and Canadian film distributor Entertainment One ($7.2 million for \"Paddington 2\"), In March 2018, shortly after the studio filed for Chapter 11 protection, the Bankruptcy Court in Delaware published a 394-page list of creditors owed money from TWC; including the estate of rock musician David Bowie, film director Michael Bay, and former First Daughter of the United States Malia Obama. Several Russian studios, including Central Partnership, Paradiz and Volga, and Timur Bekmambetov's Bazelevs Company, were also owed money from the studio. In January 2019, Lantern Entertainment said that it was not responsible for TWC's unpaid debts.\n\nOn March 19, 2018, The Weinstein Company announced that it had declared bankruptcy, and is considering a $310 million stalking horse offer with Lantern Capital. The company's bankruptcy auction began on May 4, 2018. Twenty-three bidders have expressed interest in buying certain assets from the studio. On April 27, Miramax and Lantern emerged as the frontrunners in the company's bankruptcy sale.\n\nIn June 2018, Lantern lowered its acquisition price to $287 million. In July 2018, several actors, directors, producers and writers protested Lantern's acquisition, asking a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge not to approve the purchase price for TWC's assets without first extracting a guarantee of payment to the creditors who are still owed money by the studio.\n\nOn July 16, 2018, TWC's assets were sold to the Dallas-based equity firm Lantern Capital Partners for $289 million. A newly formed studio, Lantern Entertainment, assumed the rights to TWC's 277-film library. Co-presidents Andy Mitchell and Milos Brajovic took charge of a company that dropped to 50 employees from 170 due to departures and layoffs. A trio of film experts were expected to help the co-presidents hire an experienced film CEO.\n\nAs of July 11, 2018, Netflix terminated its output contract with The Weinstein Company, and will no longer accept deliveries or make payments to the studio. This affected the release schedule for the third season of the MTV series \"Scream\" (produced by Dimension Television, and billed as a Netflix Original internationally). On June 24, 2019, it was announced that the rebooted \"Scream\" series would be moving to VH1 ahead of the premiere of the third season. The third season premiered on July 8, 2019. Two other Weinstein series; \"Peaky Blinders\" and \"\"; will remain available for streaming. In February 2019, Lantern was reported to be reaching a settlement with The Walt Disney Company, regarding several films that Lantern that did not acquire (including \"Scream 4\" and \"The Matador\"). In July 2019, Spyglass settled two major claims, including $11 million for Viacom regarding the TV series \"Scream\" and the film \"Sin City 2\" (which Lantern did not acquire).\n\nIn October 2017, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman launched a civil rights investigation into whether the Weinstein Company violated state civil rights and New York City human rights laws in its handling of sexual harassment complaints and other types of discrimination against employees. The attorney general's Civil Rights Bureau sent the company a subpoena seeking a long list of documents, including any documents and communications related to private out-of-court settlements struck with accusers.\n\nA group of Weinstein Company employees published a public statement in \"The New Yorker\" asking to be released from their signed nondisclosure agreements, which prohibit them from speaking out about their time at the company. In their statement, they wrote, \"We all knew that we were working for a man with an infamous temper. We did not know we were working for a serial sexual predator.\" They asked the company to lift their NDAs so they could \"speak openly, and get to the origins of what happened here, and how.\"\n\nOn February 11, 2018, Schneiderman filed a civil rights lawsuit against the company, Harvey and Bob Weinstein, just shortly before an anticipated announcement that the company would be purchased by an investor group led by Maria Contreras-Sweet. In the lawsuit, the company and both Weinsteins were accused of violating civil rights and gender discrimination laws, stating that it had \"repeatedly and persistently treated female employees less well than male-employees through gender-based hostile workplace harassment, quid pro quo harassment, and discrimination\" by maintaining \"a group of female employees whose primary job it was to accompany HW (sic) to events and to facilitate HW’s sexual conquests\". In addition, the lawsuit includes information that the company's Chief Operating Officer communicated with the Human Resources Director about complaints where settlements and non-disclosure agreements were needed, with the H.R. Director not being involved in any investigation or resolution process \"on more than one occasion\", and details on verbal abuse and threats by Harvey Weinstein that he would (in substance) kill employees, directly or indirectly via claims that he \"had connections to the Secret Service who could solve problems for him\".\n\nIn filing the lawsuit, Schneiderman sought to force the company to address several points: to give up non-disclosure agreements with past employees, provide better protection for employees \"who would be reporting to some of the same managers\" since most of the existing senior managers would remain in place, including David Glasser, current COO of the company, and insufficient funds to compensate alleged victims that would file suits. The investment group has allocated $50 million in the deal for compensation, which is in addition to the company's insurance policies. Other non-disclosure agreements were in effect between the company and the investment group, which prevented members of the group from talking the Attorney General until February 10, though Bob Weinstein denied this. People \"close to the sale\" derided the timing of the filing \"as an effort to score political points and grab media attention\", and could lead to the sale falling through, forcing the company into bankruptcy and delaying compensation for victims. The investment group is said to meet with the Attorney General's office within a few days, with the decision whether to continue or abandon the bid for the company on hold until then.\n\nOn February 16, 2018, The Weinstein Company fired President and COO David Glasser \"for cause\". Glasser filed a counter-suit on February 20 against the company and remaining board members, stating that no reasons other than \"for cause\" were given for the firing, which was described as \"nothing more than a desperate attempt to deflect attention away from the very people who were empowered to halt Harvey Weinstein's abusive behavior\".\n\nFollowing the sale of all assets to Lantern Capital subsidiary, Lantern Entertainment, on July 16, 2018, The Weinstein Company was completely shut down along with its website. In November 2018, Lantern acquired full control of three Quentin Tarantino films, originally released by The Weinstein Company, for $6.1 million.\n\nOn March 13, 2019, Gary Barber and Lantern Entertainment revived Spyglass Media Group with other investors, including AT&T's Warner Bros.. Lantern made a majority investment including its film library to Spyglass. In March 2020, a federal judge ruled that Spyglass was not responsible for any of TWC's outgoing royalties.\n\nRADiUS-TWC (or simply Radius) was a film label to TWC's division for distribution of multi-platform video-on-demand and theatrical productions. It was launched in 2012, and specialized in niche and independent films rather than those aimed at mainstream audiences., Radius had released about 35 films, including \"Bachelorette\", \"Butter\", \"20 Feet from Stardom\", \"Only God Forgives\", \"Lovelace\", \"All the Boys Love Mandy Lane\", \"Man of Tai Chi\", \"Fed Up\", \"Snowpiercer\", \"Citizenfour\", \"Horns\", \"The Last Five Years\", and \"It Follows\".\n\nOriginally launched as Miramax Books by Bob and Harvey Weinstein in 2001, the imprint was reborn in 2009 as Weinstein Books, a joint publishing venture between The Weinstein Company and the Perseus Books Group, published a range of general interest fiction, both literary and commercial, along with media-driven non-fiction and YA titles.\n\nSince 2012 Weinstein Books was under the creative management of Publishing Director Georgina Levitt and Editorial Director Amanda Murray. Publicity Director Kathleen Schmidt joined Weinstein Books in 2013. Weinstein Books worked in collaboration with The Weinstein Company to create book tie-ins to films such as \"My Week With Marilyn\", \"Bully\" By Lee Hirsch and Cynthia Lee and \"One Chance\" by Paul Potts.\n\nOn October 12, 2017, Hachette Book Group (which had purchased Perseus's publishing arm in April 2016) announced the imprint would immediately be shuttered, with its titles and authors moving directly to Hachette Books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856244", "title": "Harku Parish", "text": "Harku Parish\n\nHarku Parish () is a rural municipality in Harju County, northern Estonia, located west and neighbouring the capital Tallinn. It occupies an area of and has a population of 7,575 (as of 1 January 2012). The population density is .\n\nThe administrative centre of Harku Parish is Tabasalu a small borough with population of 3,217.\n\nFirst mentioned in 1891.\n\nThe current mayor of Harku Parish is Erik Sandla from the Union of Pro Patria and Res Publica. Current chairman of the council () is Kalle Palling MP.\n\nThere are 2 small boroughs (, sg. - ) and 21 villages (, sg. - ) in Harku Parish.\n\nSmall boroughs: Harku, Tabasalu.\n\nVillages: Adra, Harkujärve, Humala, Ilmandu, Kumna, Kütke, Laabi, Liikva, Muraste, Naage, Rannamõisa, Sõrve, Suurupi, Tiskre, Türisalu, Tutermaa, Vääna, Vääna-Jõesuu, Vahi, Vaila, Viti.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856246", "title": "Military junior college", "text": "Military junior college\n\nA military junior college (MJC) is a military-style junior college in the United States and one of the three major categories of the Army ROTC schools that allows cadets to become commissioned officers in the U.S. Army reserve components in two years, instead of the usual four, through the Early Commissioning Program (ECP). They also offer Service Academy preparatory programs that allows qualified students to earn an appointment to the U.S. Service Academies upon their successful completion of this demanding one-year program at MJC.\n\nFour institutions are considered military junior colleges:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856248", "title": "International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival", "text": "International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival\n\nThe International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival was founded in 1994 by Ian Smith and his son Neil and is held every summer in England. The two- or three-week Festival of Gilbert and Sullivan performances and fringe events attracts thousands of visitors, including performers, supporters, and G&S enthusiasts from around the world. Beginning in 2014, Harrogate, North Yorkshire, has hosted the Festival, which was held in Buxton, Derbyshire, from 1994 to 2013.\n\nAt the Festival, up to a dozen amateur Gilbert and Sullivan performing societies from around the world compete on the Festival's main stage each year for awards including \"International Champion\". At the weekends there are professional Gilbert and Sullivan performances, including performances each year by the Festival's homegrown National Gilbert & Sullivan Opera Company. A smaller nearby theatre and other venues host the Festival fringe, which consists of dozens of performances and lectures, a memorabilia fair, and other events.\n\nThe Festival was founded in 1994 by English businessman Ian Smith (1939–2019) and continues to be produced by his wife Janet, son Neil and their family to preserve and enhance the knowledge, understanding and appreciation of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan. It also has a goal of reinstating G&S and the performing arts in schools in Britain. On several occasions, the Festival added a week of performances in the United States. The founders believe that the Gilbert and Sullivan works are an important national heritage and legacy, especially as performed in the tradition of the venerable, year-round D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, which performed Gilbert and Sullivan's Savoy Operas continuously, year-round, for over a century until 1982. When that company closed in 1982, greatly diminishing the amount of Gilbert and Sullivan produced in Britain, Ian Smith \"had a burning anger\" that the English Arts Council had not subsidised the company, and this led him to found the Festival.\n\nThe Festival was held in Buxton, England, every year from 1994 to 2013, but it has experimented with producing additional Festival weeks in other towns or cities, including Eastbourne, England once; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, twice; Berkeley, California, once; and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, twice. The Festival relocated to Harrogate, England, in 2014. where it continues to be held each summer. Also in recent years, the Festival has also given a week of mostly professional shows in Buxton shortly prior to the main Festival opening in Harrogate.\n\nEach summer, beginning with the last weekend in July or first weekend in August, the Festival includes two or three weeks of nightly G&S operas (and weekend matinees) and dozens of daytime fringe activities, The Festival has sold more than 25,000 tickets in some years and attracts up to 2,000 performers each year.\n\nSky Arts described the Festival as \"one of the most colourful, melodic and joyous festivals of musical theatre you will come across. Celebrating the timeless, waspishly satirical lyrics of W. S. Gilbert and the brilliant musical inventiveness of Arthur Sullivan, the festival is quite simply the world’s biggest event dedicated to the Savoy operas. ... It is forward-looking and fun presenting contemporary as well as traditional productions of G&S.\" The Festival's professional orchestra accompanies the main stage performances.\n\nAt the core of the Festival is a competition among amateur G&S performing troupes from Britain and around the world. Over the course of the Festival, on weeknights, \"the best non-professional groups from the UK and overseas compete for the International Champions title.\" The day of performance for each amateur group is hectic, with move-in to the theatre at 9 a.m., lighting call at 11 a.m., their one and only tech-dress rehearsal (with the Festival orchestra) in the afternoon, the performance in the evening, and move-out immediately afterwards. A professional adjudicator critiques each amateur performance immediately after the curtain falls. The adjudicator then scores each performance, and both group and individual awards are announced at the end of the Festival.\n\nAt the first Festival in 1994, first prize was awarded to the production of \"Utopia, Limited\" presented by the Gilbert & Sullivan Society of Maine, in the US (then known as the G&S Society of Hancock County). The Derby Gilbert & Sullivan Company has won the first prize more often than any other company (six times); and the South Anglia Savoy Players has won five times and placed second four times. Festival Productions, Ireland, won in three consecutive years, 2007 to 2009. Individual awards are also presented for performers, directors and musical directors.\n\nSome groups compete year after year at the Festival, but some companies, especially those travelling from North America, South Africa, Australia and other distant places, may visit only occasionally or once. Some groups meet and rehearse entirely at the Festival, including the internet group SavoyNet, which has competed each year since 1997. SavoyNet were Festival Champions in 2013 and 2018 and are the first and only company thus far to present all 14 G&S operas at the Festival. The Festival organizers also rehearse, during the Festival each year, a \"Youth Production\" (for performers aged 9 to 19) and a \"Bus Pass Opera\" production (for performers over 60). A \"Unifest\" competition among university groups is presented simultaneously, as part of the Festival fringe.\n\nWhile the amateur productions compete during weeknights at the Festival, there are weekend professional performances given by companies such as the Carl Rosa Opera Company, Opera della Luna, the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players, Charles Court Opera, and the Festival's self-produced National Gilbert & Sullivan Opera Company, which has starred such well-known G&S performers as Richard Suart, Simon Butteriss, Bruce Graham, Gillian Knight, Barry Clark, Michael Rayner, Patricia Leonard, Donald Maxwell, Jill Pert, Gareth Jones, Oliver White, Rebecca Bottone, Ian Belsey and the Opera Babes. John Owen Edwards, David Russell Hulme, or David Steadman often serve as musical director of the company. Sky Arts calls these performers \"some of the UK’s finest exponents of musical theatre\". Raymond J. Walker wrote of the National G&S Opera Company:\n\nUniquely among professional companies in Britain, other than D'Oyly Carte, the National G&S Opera Company has presented all 13 of the extant Savoy Operas. \"The Daily Telegraph\" \"thoroughly enjoyed [the company's] spirited production\" of \"Utopia, Limited\" in 2011, an opera that has rarely been given a professional staging in Britain over the past century. In 2012 the Festival mounted the first full-scale professional production with orchestra of \"The Grand Duke\" in Britain since the 19th century. In recent years, the company has produced at least three productions at each Festival, giving a total of up to 16 performances there, while the other professional companies give a few performances each.\n\nIn 2010, the National G&S Opera Company presented its first production outside of the Festival, \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", at Oxford Castle. Two of its 2012 productions were repeated in Harrogate, and all three of its 2013 productions transferred there after the Festival. In 2014, the company began touring its productions in repertory from June to August 2014, giving performances in each of six cities. A review of the opening night of the 2014 tour praised the direction, choreography and conducting of \"The Pirates of Penzance\" and said of the company: \nThey are a real find with strong production values, a great orchestra and first class singing. Musically, this is a very strong show. It all looks marvellous with picture book settings and eye catching costumes plus a full and energetic cast. ... It all works superbly with a company obviously enjoying themselves. The chorus work is top notch, and they all come across as individuals.\n\nThe National G&S Opera Company has generally staged four productions in Harrogate each summer since 2015, also touring them to other cities and towns, including Buxton. In 2018, in connection with the 25th anniversary of the Festival, the company presented six productions, including the first professional production of \"Haddon Hall\" since the 19th century.\n\nAll of the competition performances and the weekend professional performances are given on the Festival's main stage. From 1994 to 2013, that was the Frank Matcham-designed 900-seat Buxton Opera House. Beginning in 2014, the main stage has been the 1,100-seat Royal Hall in Harrogate, another Matcham-designed theatre. These performances are nearly always accompanied by the \"National Festival Orchestra\". A review of a 2010 performance noted, \"The music was up to [the Festival's] usual high standard, with the orchestra (leader, Sally Robinson) ... giving a superb and sprightly reading of the Overture and score throughout.\" The Festival also hosts dozens of performances and fringe activities in smaller venues. In Buxton, these included the 360-seat Pavilion Arts Centre. In Harrogate, some fringe performances have been held in the 500-seat Harrogate Theatre and others at various venues in and around the town, including at the Festival's purpose-built Savoy theatre.\n\nThe \"fringe\" activities have included performances, master classes and lectures by members of the original D'Oyly Carte Opera Company (such as Valerie Masterson, Thomas Round, Gillian Knight, Kenneth Sandford, John Ayldon and John Reed) and other professionals, and a late night Festival Club, where cabaret performances are given each evening after the opera, and sometimes a G&S singalong is conducted. Recent years have included scholarly symposia, and rarely revived works by Gilbert or separately by Sullivan are also seen. There is also a G&S memorabilia fair, providing a chance for collectors and gift hunters to buy and sell G&S recordings, DVDs, books, scores, figurines and other items of interest. Fringe events also include recitals, concerts, lectures and productions of lesser-known works by Gilbert without Sullivan, Sullivan without Gilbert, works that played as companion pieces with the Gilbert and Sullivan operas during their original productions and other Victorian and Edwardian works.\n\nThe Festival serves as a \"lightning-rod\" of G&S activity worldwide. G&S performers and audiences from one part of the world can see performances by groups from other parts of the world. Performances in the traditional style mix with \"avant garde\" ones, and G&S scholars can communicate with a wide audience of enthusiasts.\n\nA feature in \"Gilbert & Sullivan News\" noted: \"The amateur performances were of a very high standard. ... There is a lovely atmosphere ... of Gilbert and Sullivan thriving, being enjoyed, and drawing everyone together as a family.\" The Festival has developed \"a reputation for being one of the friendliest musical festivals anywhere, with people returning year after year to soak up its special atmosphere.\"\n\nIn addition, the Festival aims to raise awareness and funds for its organizers' efforts to re-introduce G&S into British schools. The Festival has been featured in several British television shows and in the documentary films \"Oh Mad Delight\" and \"A Source of Innocent Merriment\". Sky Arts broadcast its features about the Festival and Gilbert and Sullivan several times in 2010.\n\nRecordings on DVD of most of the amateur and professional productions that have been seen at the Festival, as well as for some of the fringe events, are produced by the Festival organizers. Some of the Festival's professional shows are also available on CD.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856252", "title": "Fundação Nacional do Índio", "text": "Fundação Nacional do Índio\n\nFundação Nacional do Índio (, \"National Indian Foundation\") or FUNAI is a Brazilian governmental protection agency for Indian interests and their culture.\n\nIn 1910, the Indian Protection Service (Serviço de Proteção ao Índio), or the SPI, was founded under the lead of Brazilian Marshal Candido Rondon. Rondon created the foundation's motto: \"Die if necessary, but never kill.\" Drawing from his Positivism, Rondon led the SPI with the belief that the native Indians should be allowed to develop at their own pace. With state assistance and protection, Indians would eventually integrate into modern society. The SPI then began its mission to \"pacify\" Indian communities by setting up posts in their territories to foster communication and protection. Efforts were initially met by opposition and hostility from Indian groups; there were reports of SPI agents being attacked and shot by arrows. During the 1950s and 1960s, following the death of Rondon, the SPI's officials became corrupt. In 1967 the officials were accused of sexual perversion, abuse, and the massacre of entire tribes by introducing diseases and pesticides, leading to an international outcry for the disbandment of SPI. Following this disbandment, FUNAI was created to take over SPI's responsibilities and remedy the damages caused by corruption.\n\nFUNAI was created by Law No. 5,371, under jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and headquartered in Brasilia. On December 19, 1973, Law No. 6001 officially placed Indians under the protection of FUNAI through the Indian Statute. The Indian Statute, while aiming to demarcate all Indian lands by 1978, also had the main goal to integrate Indians into society as soon as possible, so that the Amazon and its people could start contributing economically to Brazilian society. Protection from a government agency is important for Indian populations, but this also means that FUNAI, as a part of the government, has authority to act contrary to the welfare of the Indians. For example, the Indian Statute permitted mining on indigenous lands; a decree in 1983 restricted mining to minerals necessary only for national defense and security, but still allowed private companies to have licenses and use indigenous labor if necessary. Also, in the early 1970s, FUNAI president General Jerônimo Bandeira de Mello approved the plan for a trans-Amazonian highway that would run through Brazil's Amazon to Peru's frontier. This highway granted access to the previously inaccessible interior of the Amazon, allowing government and private agencies to use it for their advantage. The highway led to the relocation and extermination of many indigenous tribes by the government and other private agencies, and logging along the highway directly led to deforestation along the affected parts of the Amazon. Sydney Possuelo was one of the sertanistas/explorers sent to find and relocate the tribes living along the path of the highway. Possuelo and other sertanistas were disturbed by the amount of indigenous deaths their contact caused, and met in 1987 to try to stop it. Possuelo's efforts greatly influenced FUNAI's change in policy from \"pacification\" and integration to preservation.\n\nThe Central Department for Isolated Indians and Recently Contacted Indians is a division within FUNAI to handle dealings with isolated indigenous tribes. Article 231 of the 1988 Constitution expresses indigenous peoples' rights to preserve their culture, traditions, and customs; since contact with mainstream society could jeopardize isolated tribes' culture, FUNAI undertakes efforts to maintain these tribes' isolation. The CGIIRC division is responsible for protecting areas with known isolated tribes from outside contact, since outside contact could spread disease within indigenous communities. The Department is present in 12 regions of Brazil's Amazon region, and almost all of Brazil's known uncontacted tribes reside within already demarcated lands. FUNAI has records of about 107 isolated Indians' presence.\n\nThe Brazilian Constitution of 1988 recognized Indians' rights to practice their customs without pressure to assimilate or integrate into mainstream Brazilian society. Article 231 also defines Indians' rights to their lands, and outlines FUNAI's responsibility to demarcate those lands. The article also provides that mining and other energy resources on indigenous lands is only allowed with the approval of Congress, and after taking into account the Indigenous populations' input. The Constitution set a goal of demarcating indigenous lands in five years, but by 1993 only 291 of 559 indigenous territories were demarcated.\n\nIn 1991, Decree 22 outlined five steps FUNAI must follow to demarcate indigenous lands:\nIn 1996, Brazil's President Cardoso passed Decree 1775, which effectively revoked Decree 22 and expanded the ways that commercial interests could contest the demarcation of lands. Individuals or companies were allowed from the beginning of the demarcation process until 90 days after FUNAI issued their report to submit an appeal showing that the contested lands do not meet the qualifications of indigenous lands as stated in the constitution. The government claimed that allowing people to contest indigenous lands during the demarcation process would prevent any future challenges of completed lands on the basis of unconstitutionality. The decree was widely contested as a violation of indigenous rights, earning the nickname of the \"Genocide Decree,\" due to the power it gave to commercial interests to exploit Indian lands. By April 1996, FUNAI had received over 500 appeals for over 40 indigenous territories that were in the process of being demarcated. FUNAI followed procedure and submitted its official opinion to the Ministry of Justice, rejecting the appeals that were brought against the indigenous lands. Justice Nelson Jobim sided with FUNAI on all except eight territories, ordering further investigation.\n\nOne of these territories was the Raposa/Serra do Sol region in the northern state of Roraima, home to the Macuxi, Wapixanas, Ingaricós, Taurepangs and Patamonas peoples. FUNAI identified almost 1.8 million hectares of these lands to be demarcated in 1977, but opposition from farmers and mining companies in the region prevented completion of its demarcation. After Decree 1775, the claims against the Raposa/Serra do Sol regions were backed by the Roraima state government, which supported breaking up the area into smaller settlements. Despite FUNAI's recommendations to demarcate the entire indigenous region, commercial and state pressure led Justice Nelson Jobim to order the reduction of land under Decree 1775. FUNAI, along with other indigenous rights organizations like the Indigenous Council of Roraima (CIR), Coordination of the Indigenous Organizations of the Brazilian Amazon (COIAB), and Council for the Articulation of Indigenous Peoples and Organizations in Brazil (CAPOIB) worked together in opposition to this decision. The land was finally recognized as an indigenous territory in 2005.\n\nOn December 28, 2009, President Luís Inácio (Lula) da Silva signed Presidential Decree 7056, also known as the \"FUNAI Statute\". The decree restructured FUNAI, effectively closing hundreds of indigenous posts and regional FUNAI offices. The government never consulted with indigenous populations, even though under Convention 169 of the International Labour Organization, the government is required to discuss legal changes that would affect indigenous populations. This led to hundreds of indigenous people, deeming themselves the Revolutionary Indigenous Camp, to protest outside the Ministry of Justice building. The protesters called for the resignation of FUNAI president Márcio Augusto Freitas de Meira and the revocation of Decree 7056. Protesters were eventually forcibly removed from their camp outside the Ministry of Justice Building, and the Decree remained in effect, decreasing the quality and efficiency FUNAI could provide to indigenous peoples.\n\nPresident Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's government approved 81 applications for demarcation, but Dilma Rousseff's government approved only 11 territories from 2011 to 2015.\n\nThe current Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro has expressed his determination to increase the economic exploitation of Brazil's resources and to increase commercial mining and farming on indigenous reserves.\n\nWithin hours of taking office in January 2019, Bolsonaro made two major changes to FUNAI: He moved FUNAI from under the Ministry of Justice to be under the newly created \"Ministry of Human Rights, Family and Women\" and he delegated the identification the traditional habitats of indigenous people and their designation as inviolable protected territories − a task attributed to FUNAI by the constitution – to the Agriculture Ministry. Several months later, Brazil's National Congress overturned these changes.\n\nAccording to \"Al Jazeera\", in February 2019, several indigenous organisations reported to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights on violence exerted against indigenous communities including homicides, stonings, deforesting, threats and arson.\n\nIn July 2019, Bolsonaro nominated Marcelo Xavier da Silva, a federal police officer with strong connections to agribusiness, as new president of the FUNAI. According to \"The Guardian\", former FUNAI president Gen Franklimberg de Freitas has said that Garcia \"froths hate\" for indigenous people and that he sees Funai as \"an obstacle to national development\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856253", "title": "WXSP-CD", "text": "WXSP-CD\n\nWXSP-CD, virtual and UHF digital channel 15, is a low-powered, Class A MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station licensed to Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States and serving the Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek television market. Owned by Nexstar Media Group, it is a sister station to Nexstar's duopoly of Grand Rapids-licensed NBC affiliate WOOD-TV (channel 8) and Battle Creek-licensed ABC affiliate WOTV (channel 41). The three stations share studios on College Avenue Southeast in the Heritage Hill section of Grand Rapids; WXSP-CD's transmitter is located in Walker (along I-96). There is no separate website for WXSP-CD; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WOOD-TV.\n\nDue to its low-power status, WXSP-CD's broadcasting radius only covers the immediate Grand Rapids area. Therefore, in order to serve the entire Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek market, it is relayed on four Class A translators that repeat WXSP-CD's programming:\nThe station signed on the air on July 23, 1986 as W29AD, broadcasting on UHF channel 29. It moved to UHF channel 15 and acquired the W15AM calls on January 12, 1988. In the station's early days, it was a translator for World Harvest Television from WHME-TV in South Bend, Indiana, which is owned by LeSEA Broadcasting (now Family Broadcasting Corporation). The station eventually switched to LIN TV's Local Weather Station (LWS) format with the call sign WOWD-LP (variation on WOOD-TV). WOWD and its low-power network of repeaters aired 24-hour weather information direct from WOOD-TV's weather center. This was in an early pre-digital format comparable to the now defunct NBC Weather Plus.\n\nThe weather programming aired from the mid-1990s until it switched to a general entertainment programming format a few years later. It featured graphic displays of various current conditions and forecasts as well as periodic forecast segments from WOOD-TV's meteorologists. Short commercial breaks would feature local television spots as well as LWS' station identification. A format change took place when it became a UPN affiliate on August 31, 1999 (displacing that network from secondary carriage on WOOD-TV and WOTV), prompting the move of LWS to the early morning hours and the adoption of new calls, WXSP-LP. The call-sign WXSP-CA was acquired after it became a Class A station, which meets stricter requirements than most low-powered television stations.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. On February 22, 2006, News Corporation announced the launch of a new \"sixth\" network called MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its syndication division Twentieth Television. MyNetworkTV was created to compete against another upstart network that would launch at the same time that September, The CW (an amalgamated network that was originally consisted primarily of UPN and The WB's higher-rated programs) as well as to give UPN and WB stations that were not mentioned as becoming CW affiliates another option besides converting to independent stations.\n\nCBS affiliate WWMT (channel 3) announced on April 4 that it would affiliate with The CW on a new second digital subchannel. WXSP became available as a MyNetworkTV affiliate partly because then-WB affiliate WZPX-TV (channel 43) was also an i: Independent Television (now Ion Television) owned-and-operated station and ran WB programming on a 22-hour delay (prime-time shows ran at 6 p.m. the night after the original broadcast and the Kids' WB Saturday block aired at 5 a.m. on Sunday mornings). As a result, Southwestern Michigan is one of the largest markets in which The CW was only available via digital subchannel/cable and on an entirely new station. It was reported that WXSP was in discussions to join The CW, but due to the station's heavy reliance upon professional sports during primetime and the network's concerns over pre-empted programming, the two sides could not come to an agreement.\n\nFor the final two weeks of UPN's existence, Fox affiliate WXMI (channel 17) aired \"WWE Smackdown\" until WWMT-DT2's launch. WXSP joined MyNetworkTV on September 5, while WWMT-DT2 signed on with The CW on September 18. On July 21, 2010, WXSP flash-cut from analog to a digital signal. The call letters were changed to WXSP-CD on August 30. In late-October 2010, LIN TV discontinued the simulcast of WXSP on WOTV-DT2, replacing it with a new digital subchannel network, TheCoolTV (which it discontinued on July 15, 2013). On July 1, 2013, LIN TV ended the simulcast of WXSP on WOOD-DT2, replacing that signal with Bounce TV.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, it was announced that Media General would acquire LIN. The deal closed on December 19, bringing WXSP, along with WOOD and WOTV, under common ownership with CBS affiliate WLNS-TV in Lansing.\n\nOn January 27, 2016, Media General announced that it had entered into a definite agreement to be acquired by Nexstar Broadcasting Group. The combined company will be known as Nexstar Media Group, and own 171 stations (including WOOD, WOTV and WXSP), serving an estimated 39% of households.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Tribune Media (owners of Fox affiliate WXMI) for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar is precluded from acquiring WXMI directly or indirectly, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. As such, Nexstar was required to sell either WXMI, WOOD and/or WOTV to separate, unrelated companies to address the ownership conflict. A sale of WXSP-CD was not required, as WXSP does not rank among the four highest-rated stations in the Grand Rapids–Kalamazoo–Battle Creek market and does not comply with FCC duopoly rules as it is licensed as a Class A low-power station. On March 20, 2019, it was announced Nexstar would keep both the WOOD-TV/WOTV duopoly and WXSP-CD and sell WXMI to the Cincinnati-based E. W. Scripps Company, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Scripps and Tegna Inc. in separate deals worth $1.32 billion.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOvernights, WXSP airs a live feed of WOOD-TV's Doppler weather radar (known as \"Storm Track Live\"), along with NOAA Weather Radio broadcast audio. The station may sometimes air ABC or NBC programming in the event of preemptions by WOTV or WOOD-TV.\n\nThe station was the Grand Rapids home for the former Detroit Pistons, Detroit Red Wings, and Big Ten Conference syndicated packages.\n\nOn October 21, 2007, WXSP introduced a 10 p.m. newscast produced by sister station WOOD-TV, now known as \"News 8 at 10:00\". The half-hour newscast competes with Fox station WXMI's hour-long prime time newscast, and later began to compete with a WWMT-produced program for its The CW subchannel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856254", "title": "Cora (hypermarket)", "text": "Cora (hypermarket)\n\nCora is a retail group of hypermarkets of belgian origin located in France and elsewhere in Europe. Cora was founded in 1974 by the supermarket holding Louis Delhaize Group after taking over three Carrefour hypermarkets located in Belgium. These three were originally established around 1969 as a joint venture franchise between two other companies: the Carrefour Group and the Delhaize Group.\n\nThe Louis Delhaize Group owns several supermarket and hypermarket chains internationally, including Cora, Louis Delhaize, Match, Profi, Truffaut, Ecomax, Animalis, Sovena and Houra.\n\nThe name 'Cora' is borrowed from the Greek goddess Persephone (Roman: Proserpina) who is also known as Cora.\n\nAs of December 2018, Cora has eleven hypermarkets in Romania, four of which are in Bucharest, and the other seven are in Baia Mare, Constanța(2), Cluj-Napoca, Ploiești, Bacau and Drobeta-Turnu Severin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856263", "title": "Iraty Sport Club", "text": "Iraty Sport Club\n\nIraty Sport Club, or simply Iraty, is a Brazilian football team from Irati in Paraná, founded on April 21, 1914.\n\nTheir home stadium is the Coronel Emílio Gomes stadium, capacity 8,000.\n\nThe club was founded at Irati city, in 1914. The founders were a group of sportsmen led by Antônio Xavier da Silveira. Iraty Sport Club is one of the oldest clubs of Paraná and the club's first match was in 1914, defeating Imbituvense by 3-0.\n\nOn May 1, 2002, the club won its first state championship, competing the Copa do Brasil of the following year. In that year, the club also won the Campeonato Paranaense de Juniores (Paraná Youth Championship).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856272", "title": "Mezangelle", "text": "Mezangelle\n\nmezangelle is a poetic-artistic language developed in the 1990s by Australian-based Internet artist Mez Breeze (Mary-Anne Breeze). It is recognized as a central contribution to Codework, Electronic literature, Internet Art and digital writing in general.\n\nmezangelle is primarily based on hybrid words. Like the portmanteau words invented by Lewis Carroll or used in James Joyce's novel Finnegans Wake, it dissects and recombines language and stacks multiple layers of meanings into single phrases. Beyond that, it is an Internet-cultural poetic language deriving much of its tension from incorporating formal code and informal speech at once. Its base construction qualifies it as hypertext on a morphological and grammatical level. It is not syntactically fixed and is in continuous artistic development.\n\nmezangelle mixes English, ASCII art, fragments from programming language source code, markup languages, regular expressions and wildcard patterns, protocol code, IRC shorthands, emoticons, phonetic spelling and slang. It is a polysemic multi-layered language that remixes the basic structure of English and computer code through the manipulation of syllables and morphemes. Like the related Codework of Jodi, Netochka Nezvanova, Ted Warnell, Alan Sondheim and lo_y, it bears some resemblance to hacker cultural 1337 / leet speak and Perl poetry.\n\nThrough its semantic and syntactical layering, mezangelle achieves an aesthetic effect of altering words and letters from discrete, digital units into fluid, quasi-analog information. This fluidity and flow corresponds to its artistic use in email postings.\n\nMez works under a multitude of assumed virtual identities or avatars. These avatars are presented throughout the Internet as authors of electronic writing. Examples of these include: mez breeze, netwurker, data.h!.bleeder, ms post modemism, mezflesque.exe, Purrsonal Areah Netwurker and cortical_h[b]acker. mez is best known for her Codework based on her self-invented language mezangelle which she publishes on mailing lists like _arc.hive_, Nettime, and netbehaviour. These work, or \"wurks\" as she calls them, have language play and identity swapping as a central element. Because of their dense poetical language, they are also acclaimed and influential in Digital Poetry. As of May 2014, Mez is the only Digital Poet who's a non-USA citizen to have her comprehensive career archive (called \"The Mez Breeze Papers\") housed at Duke University, through their David M. Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library.\n\nmezangelle first appeared in late 1994 - early 1995 on MUDs, the web chat channels Kajplats 305, Cybersite and unix based y-talk. These instances involved re-mixing random chat responses, y-talk and IRC conventions back to the participants. Chat members communicated with each other through text based dialogue using avatars to interact. Notable avatars from this time included Viking, Jester and mez's screen names aeon and ms post modemism.\n\nThe Wollongong World Women Online exhibition (1995, University of Wollongong Online Gallery) was the first traditionally presented exhibition to showcase a web-based text version of the mezangelle work _Through Ah Strainer_. Other online exhibitions that included mezangelled works during this period:\n\n\nDuring 1997–2003 mezangelle utilized mailing list forums as a distributive medium with an emphasis on peer collaboration. The works evolved into two subgenres: netwurks and codewurks/codeworks. Both forms employed code and chat convention mash-ups, HTML code and scripting languages to manipulate poetic structures. Codeworks included text emulations of broken source code whereas netwurks present in multimedia web interfaces that incorporate several codeworks. An example of a codework is _Viro. Logic Condition][ing][1.1_ and an example of a netwurk is <nowiki>_The data][h!][bleeding tex][e][ts_</nowiki>.\n\nIn this period mezangelle shifted from a reliance on script kiddy/hacker influences to a refined interactive practice that explored aspects of fusing biological/physical and online living. Recurring themes from 1996 onward include: gamer dynamics, social engineering, questioning conceptions of print-based and electronic literature, ASCII art, play theory, teledildonics, viral imagery, and examinations of post-modern, feminist, neural net, social change and technofetistic theories.\n\nIn this timeframe mezangelle distribution altered from dispersal via mailing lists to social networking formats. The change occurred due to the growing repressive nature of the mailing list forums used, including extensive censorship by list moderators Julianne Pierce from Recode, Ted Byfield/Geert Lovink from Nettime and Chris Chesher from the ::fibreculture:: list.\n\nThe livejournal <nowiki>_cross.ova.ing][4rm.blog.2.log][_</nowiki> created in July 2003 is the first recorded procedural net art blog. There are at least two other known mezangelled blogs currently authored by mez. One is <nowiki>_dis[ap]posable_</nowiki> which uses reappropriation of the blog format and snapshot software to create clustered poetic meanings. These nodal poems are examples of a type of digital readymade and are to be read via a grid-like text and image composite structure. For example, the tag, title, and link sections are all reworked with poetic loadings and not constructed according to conventional weblog standards.\n\nAs well as maintaining mezangelle works via the livejournal blog, this creative period again shifts Mez's artistic emphasis to the use of Augmented Reality, Mixed Reality, Virtual Reality and mobile platforms. In 2008, mezangelle works manifested in mainstream games such as World of Warcraft: \"...\"Twittermixed Litterature\"...involves WoW characters [\"toons\"] on the Bloodscalp Server standing in Ironforge [an in-game location] + live remixing [in_game] chat that occurs between players and guild/character names that rotate past.\" . In 2009, mezangelle began appearing in more mainstream projects, including being utilised as a script device in New Media Scotland's Alternate Reality Game \"Alt-Winning: A game of Love, War and Telepathy\" and as part of the Exhibition as part of the 3rd Faction's /hug Project at the Laguna Art Museum, California (sponsored by Blizzard Entertainment).\n\nFrom 2011 to 2014, Mezangelle featured in a set of Virtual Reality games and mobile apps such as The Dead Tower, #PRISOM, and #Carnivast. #PRISOM premièred at The 2013 International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality on an Augmented Reality Head-up display Unit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856286", "title": "Taruho Inagaki", "text": "Taruho Inagaki\n\nInagaki was born in Osaka, moved to Akashi in Hyōgo Prefecture while he was in elementary school, and spent much of his childhood in Kōbe. He graduated from Kwansei Gakuin Junior High School. In 1923 he published \"One Thousand and One Second Stories (Issen ichibyō monogatari),\" and by 1926 he was counted among members of the short-lived Shinkankakuha group of writers. In 1968 he won the first annual Japan Literature Grand Prize for , an essay on \"aesthetic eroticism\", where he divides stories into A (anal), V (vaginal), P (penile) and K (clitoral) varieties and \"describe[s] the historical, psychological, and metaphysical ramifications of the love of beautiful boys in an eclectic blend of ideas culled from history, Freudianism, pop psychology, and existentialism.\"\n\nInagaki's works often dealt with themes including flight, astronomical objects, and erotic and romantic relationships among beautiful adolescent boys. His stories on the latter topic, and his essays in \"Shōnen'ai no Bigaku\", were an influence on early writers of the yaoi genre such as Keiko Takemiya.\n"}
{"id": "1856289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856289", "title": "Miliary tuberculosis", "text": "Miliary tuberculosis\n\nMiliary tuberculosis is a form of tuberculosis that is characterized by a wide dissemination into the human body and by the tiny size of the lesions (1–5 mm). Its name comes from a distinctive pattern seen on a chest radiograph of many tiny spots distributed throughout the lung fields with the appearance similar to millet seeds—thus the term \"miliary\" tuberculosis. Miliary TB may infect any number of organs, including the lungs, liver, and spleen. Miliary tuberculosis is present in about 2% of all reported cases of tuberculosis and accounts for up to 20% of all extra-pulmonary tuberculosis cases.\n\nPatients with miliary tuberculosis often experience non-specific signs, such as coughing and enlarged lymph nodes. Miliary tuberculosis can also present with enlarged liver (40% of cases), enlarged spleen (15%), inflammation of the pancreas (<5%), and multiple organ dysfunction with adrenal insufficiency (adrenal glands do not produce enough steroid hormones to regulate organ function). Miliary tuberculosis may also present with unilateral or bilateral pneumothorax rarely. Stool may also be diarrheal in nature and appearance.\n\nOther symptoms include fever, hypercalcemia, choroidal tubercles, and cutaneous lesions.\nFirstly, many patients can experience a fever lasting several weeks with daily spikes in morning temperatures.\n\nSecondly, hypercalcemia prevails in 16 to 51% of tuberculosis cases. It is thought that hypercalcemia occurs as a response to increased macrophage activity in the body. Such that, 1,25 dihydroxycholecalciferol (also referred to as calcitriol) improves the ability of macrophages to kill bacteria; however, higher levels of calcitriol lead to higher calcium levels, and thus hypercalcemia in some cases. Thus, hypercalcemia proves to be an important symptom of miliary tuberculosis.\n\nThirdly, chorodial tubercules, pale lesions on the optic nerve, typically indicate miliary tuberculosis in children. These lesions may occur in one eye or both; the number of lesions varies between patients. Chorodial tubercules may serve as important symptoms of miliary tuberculosis, since their presence can often confirm suspected diagnosis.\n\nLastly, between 10 and 30% of adults, and 20–40% of children with miliary tuberculosis have tuberculosis meningitis. This relationship results from mycobacteria from miliary tuberculosis spreading to the brain and the subarachnoid space; as a result, leading to tuberculosis meningitis.\n\nThe risk factors for contracting miliary tuberculosis are being in direct contact with a person who has it, living in unsanitary conditions, and poor nutrition. In the U.S., risk factors for contracting the disease include homelessness and HIV/AIDS.\n\nMiliary tuberculosis is a form of tuberculosis that is the result of \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" travelling to extrapulmonary organs, such as the liver, spleen and kidneys. Although it is well understood that the bacteria spread from the pulmonary system to the lymphatic system and eventually the blood stream, the mechanism by which this occurs is not well understood.\n\nOne proposed mechanism is that tuberculous infection in the lungs results in erosion of the epithelial layer of alveolar cells and the spread of infection into a pulmonary vein. Once the bacteria reach the left side of the heart and enter the systemic circulation, they may multiply and infect extrapulmonary organs. Once infected, the cell-mediated immune response is activated. The infected sites become surrounded by macrophages, which form granuloma, giving the typical appearance of miliary tuberculosis.\n\nAlternatively, the bacteria may attack the cells lining the alveoli and enter the lymph node(s). the bacteria then drain into a systemic vein and eventually reach the right side of the heart. From the right side of the heart, the bacteria may seed—or re-seed as the case may be—the lungs, causing the eponymous \"miliary\" appearance.\n\nTesting for miliary tuberculosis is conducted in a similar manner as for other forms of tuberculosis, although a number of tests must be conducted on a patient to confirm diagnosis. Tests include chest x-ray, sputum culture, bronchoscopy, open lung biopsy, head CT/MRI, blood cultures, fundoscopy, and electrocardiography. The tuberculosis (TB) blood test, also called an Interferon Gamma Release Assay or IGRA, is a way to diagnose latent TB.\nA variety of neurological complications have been noted in miliary tuberculosis patients—tuberculous meningitis and cerebral tuberculomas being the most frequent. However, a majority of patients improve following antituberculous treatment. Rarely lymphangitic spread of lung cancer could mimic miliary pattern of tuberculosis on regular chest X-ray.\nThe tuberculin skin test, commonly used for detection of other forms of tuberculosis, is not useful in the detection of miliary tuberculosis. The tuberculin skin test fails due to the high numbers of false negatives. These false negatives may occur because of higher rates of tuberculin anergy compared to other forms of tuberculosis.\n\nA case of miliary tuberculosis in an 82-year-old woman:\n\nThe standard treatment recommended by the WHO is with isoniazid and rifampicin for six months, as well as ethambutol and pyrazinamide for the first two months. If there is evidence of meningitis, then treatment is extended to twelve months. The U.S. guidelines recommend nine months' treatment. \"Common medication side effects a patient may have such as inflammation of the liver if a patient is taking pyrazinamide, rifampin, and isoniazid. A patient may also have drug resistance to medication, relapse, respiratory failure, and acute respiratory distress syndrome.\"\n\nIf left untreated, miliary tuberculosis is almost always fatal. Although most cases of miliary tuberculosis are treatable, the mortality rate among children with miliary tuberculosis remains 15 to 20% and for adults 25 to 30%. One of the main causes for these high mortality rates includes late detection of disease caused by non-specific symptoms. Non-specific symptoms include: coughing, weight loss, or organ dysfunction. These symptoms may be implicated in numerous disorders, thus delaying diagnosis. Misdiagnosis with tuberculosis meningitis is also a common occurrence when patients are tested for tuberculosis, since the two forms of tuberculosis have high rates of co-occurrence.\n\nJohn Jacob Manget described a form of disseminated tuberculosis in 1700 and expressed its resemblance to numerous millet seeds in size and appearance and coined the term from Latin word \"miliarius\", meaning \"related to millet seed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856290", "title": "Marsanes", "text": "Marsanes\n\nMarsanes is a Sethian Gnostic text from the New Testament apocrypha. The only surviving copy comes from the Nag Hammadi library, albeit with four pages missing, and several lines damaged beyond recovery, including the first ten of the fifth page. Scholars speculate that the text was originally written by a Syrian in Greek during the third century.\n\nLike Zostrianos, and Allogenes, the text describes a very elaborate esoteric cosmogony of successive emanations from an original God, as revealed by Marsanes, who is recognized as a Gnostic prophet. Within the text there are indications that the Sethians had developed ideas of monism, an idea comparable to Heracleon's notion of universal perfection and permanence as expressed through the constancy of the total mass of things within it (that is, \"all\" matter in the universe may only change form, and may not be created or destroyed), and the later Stoic insistence of nothing existing beyond the material. The text also is an apocalypse that may at one point have been used by the school of Plotinus in Rome. Common Gnostic thought is especially prominent through the text's discussion on the power of sacred knowledge, which can allow readers to ascend through the levels of the universe until they reach the highest heaven where God resides.\n"}
{"id": "1856301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856301", "title": "Allogenes", "text": "Allogenes\n\nAllogenes is a repertoire, or genre, of mystical Gnostic texts dating from the first half of the Third Century, CE. They concern Allogenes, \"the Stranger\" (or \"foreigner\"), a half-human, half-divine capable of communicating with realms beyond the sense-perceptible world, into the unknowable.\n\nThe Coptic text of \"Allogenes\" (Allog), the first Allogenes source to be discovered in modern times, is the third item in Codex XI of the Nag Hammadi library (NHC XI,3), held on leaves 45-69. The tops of many leaves are missing, as is the entire opening to the work.\n\n\"The Temptation of Allogenes\" (Allogenes T), also in Coptic, is the fourth item in the Codex Tchacos, discovered in the 1970s but not made public until 2006. As this source also contains the text for the controversial Gospel of Judas, far more attention has been accorded to that work than to \"The Tempatation of Allogenes\", which remains in a fragmentary condition. As one of the antiques dealers who handled Codex Tchacos disseminated parts of the manuscript for individual sale, not all of the pages relating to \"The Tempatation of Allogenes\" have been located, edited or published. An uncredited translation of part of the text from 2006 mixes up lines from \"The Gospel of Judas\" with passages from \"The Tempatation of Allogenes\".\n\nRadiocarbon dating establishes Codex Tchacos as physically earlier of the two sources, dating to 280 CE plus or minus sixty years. Nag Hammadi Codex IX, along with the rest of the library, dates from 348 CE plus or minus sixty years.\n\nWriting between 374 and 375 CE in the \"Against Sethians\" section of his Panarion, also known as \"Against Heresies\" (39.5.1), Epiphanius of Salamis states that \"[The Sethians] compose books in the names of great men, and say that seven books are in Seth's name, but give other, different books the name 'Stranger.'\" Epiphanius comments that the Sethians \"forged certain books in the name of Seth himself, and say they are given by him -- others in the name of him and his seven sons. For they say he had seven sons, called 'Strangers'\". In 40.2.2 Epiphanius also mentions that the Archontics \"have forged their own apocrypha (...) and by now they also have the ones called the 'Strangers.'\"\n\nNo other Christian heresiologist of the ancient world mentions Allogenes, and based on this, Antoinette Clark Wire suggests that these works did not exist before 200 CE. However, more than a century before Epiphanius, the Allogenes books were likewise condemned by Neo-Platonist thinkers. In his \"Vita Plotini\", Porphyry includes a list of texts known to Plotinus, which he describes as being written by \"many Christians,\" containing entries for an \"Apocalypse of Allogenes\" in addition to one for Allogenes' son, Mesos. According to Zeke Mazur, the evaluation of this material at Rome by Plotinus' circle would have occurred in the 260s. Porphyry comments that \"They deceived many, and were themselves deceived, as if Plato had not penetrated deeply into intelligible substance.\" Porphyry remembered that Plotinus delivered refutations to this literature in his lectures, and wrote a book, \"Against the Gnostics\", which survives in the Enneads (II, 9) but Plotinus does not mention any particular book by name. Nevertheless, where Porphyry agrees with Epiphanius is that \"Allogenes\" was a cycle of books, referred to in the plural, rather than as a single work. No text corresponding to the \"Apocalypse of Mesos\" mentioned by Porphyry has ever been found.\n\n\"The Tempatation of Allogenes\" begins with Sakla (i.e. Satan) tempting Allogenes; \"Be like those in this world and eat one of my possessions!\" But using almost exactly the same words of Jesus Christ in Gospel of Matthew 4:10, Allogenes rebuffs the demiurge, saying \"Away from me, Satan! It is not you I search, but my Father.\" He further proclaims that Satan will not survive the ages, as he is \"the first star of their family line\" and \"his star is burnt out.\" Allogenes calls out to God for \"spiritual knowledge;\" on Mount Thambour (Mount Tabor) he is answered by a voice from a cloud which tells him that \"Your pleas are heard and I am being sent to you in this location to go and spread the Glad Tidings. But you have not found an escape from this prison yet.\" \n\nIt is not clear how the fragments of \"The Tempatation of Allogenes\" fit together, and some of the \"Gospel of Judas\" material is mixed in; it is possible that Judas Iscariot is employed as a character in the text as well. \n\nThe surviving text from Nag Hammadi begins with an Allogenes recounting to his son Mesos a dialog with an angel, Youel, revealing to him aspects of the Triple-Powered-One, a being more powerful than God, embodying Vitality, Mentality, and That-Which-Is. After Youel concludes her lesson, Allogenes states \"My soul went slack, and I fled and was very disturbed. And I turned to myself and saw the light that surrounded me and the Good that was in me, I became divine.\" After Allogenes considers the revelations made to him for a period of one hundred years, Youel returns and sings a hymn of praise to the Unnamable one, and then Allogenes ascends into an encounter with \"the ineffable and Unknowable God.\" He is guided into the Aeon of Barbelos by the Luminaries, who engage in Negative, or Apophatic theology. Quite some time is spent in the description of this matter: \"He is not corporeal. He is not incorporeal. He is not great. He is not small. He is not a number. He is not a creature. Nor is he something that exists, that one can know. But he is something else of himself that is superior, which one cannot know.\" This is the best preserved and longest continuous passage of \"Allogenes\". After an ellipse, an unidentified authority commands Allogenes to write down what he has learned and to place it on a mountain, under guard, with an oracle, and he dedicates the work to his son Mesos; \"These are the things that were disclosed to me.\"\n\nAlthough the roughly contemporary opponents of Allogenes literature provide some clues to its origin by virtue of their opinions, there is little concord among scholars in this regard; other than that it is Gnostic, it has yet to be definitively classified. \"The Temptation of Allogenes\" is a Christian Gnostic text that places Allogenes in Christ's stead in Matthew Chapter 4, adding Gnostic allusions; he describes \"my Father\" as \"[he] who is raised high above all great Aeons of heavens, each with their own God.\" The NHC \"Allogenes\" is a non-Christian, wholly Gnostic text; it is largely thought to be Sethian, with Allogenes as an allegory for Seth. However, Wire clarifies that the text nowhere mentions Seth or his children. When \"The Temptation of Allogenes\" first appeared, there was hope that the new discovery might help to fill in some of the missing lines of \"Allogenes\", but it is clear from what has been published that \"The Temptation of Allogenes\" is a wholly independent composition. At least it confirms the plurality of Allogenes books hinted at by Epiphanius, Porphyry and in the closing lines of \"Allogenes\" itself: \"Proclaim them, O my son Mesos, as the seal for all the books of Allogenes.\" \n\nWire identifies concordances between \"Allogenes\" and the Greek \"Corpus Hermeticum\" or Hermetica, Apocryphon of John, Trimorphic Protennoia, Epistle of Eugnostos, the Sophia of Jesus Christ and the NHC Gospel of the Egyptians. Porphyry identified Allogenes in the same breath as Zostrianos, and in this purely Gnostic context, Wire adds the \"Untitled Text\" of the Bruce Codex, Marsanes and The Three Steles of Seth. Despite Porphyry's dismay at the Sethians' lack of digestion of Plato, some common turns of phrase between the Nag Hammadi \"Allogenes\" and Proclus' \"Elements of Theology\" turn up in the Fifth Century CE, but not before that. Nevertheless, based on the considerable Neoplatonic content and negative theology of \"Allogenes\", Wire concludes that the text that we have is the same one read by Plotinus and his school in the 260s. John Douglas Turner suggests that \"Allogenes\" was written in direct response to the Neoplatonists' rejection of \"Zostrianos\"; Porphyry notes that his colleague Amelius wrote a 40-volume refutation to that text, which no longer survives and may have appeared around 240 CE. As a result, scholarship on \"Allogenes\" has largely existed in the shadow of \"Zostrianos\". On the other hand, Dylan Burns separates from the rest in proposing that the NHC \"Allogenes\" is a post-Plotonian redaction of an earlier Greek text and is therefore not the same as the one known to Plotinus.\n\nDavid Brons identifies the NHC Allogenes as \"Non-Valentinian,\" but used by the school, and the Nag Hammadi Codex in which it has been recovered is otherwise devoted exclusively to Valentian texts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856312", "title": "Penthouse and Pavement", "text": "Penthouse and Pavement\n\nPenthouse and Pavement is the debut studio album by the English synthpop band Heaven 17. It was originally released in September 1981, on the label Virgin.\n\n\"(We Don't Need This) Fascist Groove Thang\" was released as a single, but did not achieve chart success partly due to a ban by the BBC. The album sold reasonably well, but was not a great commercial success on release. It has since been regarded as \"an important outing\", is included in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\", and was re-released in 2010 in a three-disc special edition. The title track was included on the soundtrack of the 1993 erotic thriller film \"Sliver\".\n\nWhilst the singles charted poorly, the album charted at No. 14 and remained in the Top 100 for 77 weeks. It was certified gold (100,000 copies sold) by the BPI in October 1982. It was ranked at number 5 among the top ten \"Albums of the Year\" for 1981 by \"NME\".\n\nIn a contemporary review, Paul Morley in NME said: \"\"Penthouse and Pavement\" is fabulous and it won't deny your needs and you just put our faith in it because it is true.\"\n\nIn a retrospective review, Dan LeRoy in AllMusic felt that the album combined electropop with good melodies, and that Glenn Gregory was able to handle the \"overtly left-wing political\" lyrics without sounding \"pretentious\".\n\nThe album is included in the musical reference book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\n\nThe album was reproduced live in its entirety in a series of concerts the band held throughout 2010, one of which (in Sheffield) was filmed and shown on BBC Two on 16 May 2010. The following night a documentary about the making of the album was screened; this was later included on a new three-disc special edition of the album released in November 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n credited to B.E.F.\n\nDisc 3 (DVD)\n\nAlbum\nSingles\n† Released as a 12\" single only.\n\nThe album song \"Penthouse and Pavement\" is featured in Rockstar Games video game \"\" where it is played on the fictional radio station Wave 103.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856316", "title": "Special Achievement Genie", "text": "Special Achievement Genie\n\nThe Special Achievement Genie is a special award given irregularly by the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television at the Genie Awards. It is mainly a Lifetime Achievement Award but can also mark a career milestone.\n\n"}
{"id": "1856322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856322", "title": "First Nations in Manitoba", "text": "First Nations in Manitoba\n\nFirst Nations in Manitoba constitute of over 130,000 registered people. Of those, about 60% live on reserve. There are 63 First Nations in the Province and five indigenous linguistic groups. The languages are Nēhiyawēwin, Ojibwe, Dakota, Oji-Cree and Dene. They are listed by \"common usage\" names but other names may be applied in certain areas. As an example, \"Cree Nation\" and \"First Nation\" is applied to certain bands on the same reserve.\n\nThere are about 63 reserves in Manitoba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856344", "title": "Jun Ishikawa", "text": "Jun Ishikawa\n\nIshikawa was born in the Asakusa district of Tokyo as the son of a banker. He graduated from the Tokyo School of Foreign Languages (, later Tokyo University of Foreign Studies) with a degree in French literature. After graduation, he served a tour of duty in the Imperial Japanese Navy from 1922–1923, following which he was hired by Fukuoka University as a professor of French literature. His early career involved translating works such as Anatole France’s \"Le lys rouge\" and author André Gide’s \"L'Immoraliste\" into Japanese.\n\nThe next year, he was resigned from the university due to controversy over his participation in student protest movements. He returned to Tokyo and began a bohemian existence, living out of cheap pensions while translating André Gide's \"Les Caves du Vatican\" and Molière's \"Le Misanthrope\" and \"Tartuffe\".\n\nHis literary career began in 1935, when he began writing a series of short stories, starting with \"Kajin\" (佳人, Lady), and \"Hinkyu mondo\" (貧窮 問答, Dialog on Poverty) in which he depicted the struggles of a solitary writer attempting to create a Parnassian fiction. In 1936 he won the fourth annual Akutagawa Prize for his story \"Fugen\" (普賢, The Bodhisattva).\n\nIn early 1938, when Japan's war against China was at its height, Ishikawa published the brilliantly ironic \"Marusu no uta\" (マルス の 歌, Mars' Song), an antiwar story soon banned for fomenting antimilitary thought. His first novel, \"Hakubyo\" (白描, Plain Sketch, 1940) was a criticism of Stalinism. During the war years, he turned his attention to non-fiction, producing biographies on Mori Ōgai and Watanabe Kazan. However, his main interest was in the comic verses of the Tenmei era of the Edo period (\"狂歌, Kyoka\"), of which he became a master. He wrote poetry using the pen-name of . Along with the likes of Osamu Dazai, Sakaguchi Ango, and Oda Sakunosuke, Ishikawa was known as a member of the \"Buraiha\" (literally \"Ruffian\") tradition of anti-conventional literature. In the post-war period, he wrote \"Ogon Densetsu\" (黄金 伝説, Legend of Gold, 1946) and \"Yakeato no Iesu\" (焼跡 の イエス, Jesus in the Ashes, 1946). The author Abe Kobo became his pupil.\n\nHe also continued his work in essays, which took two forms. In \"Isai hitsudan\" (夷斎 筆談, Isai's Discourses, 1950–1951), he covered a wide range of topics in art, literature and current events, in an irreverent, and at times, bitter, style. On the other hand, \"Shokoku Kijinden\" (諸国 畸人伝, Eccentrics and Gallants from around the country, 1955–1957), is a series of biographical sketches of unusual persons from various points in Japanese history. He turned also to ancient Japanese history, with the serial publication of \"Shinshaku Kojiki\" (新釈 古事記, Another Translation of the \"Kojiki\"), \"Hachiman Engi\" (八幡 縁起, Origins of Gods of Hachiman, 1957) and \"Shura\" (修羅, Demons, 1958), in which he explored the origin of Japanese nation and conflict between the Jōmon and Yayoi peoples.\n\nIn 1964 he went to a journey to the Soviet Union and western Europe together with Abe Kobo. It was his first overseas travel, and resulted in \"Seiyu Nichiroku\" (西游 日録, A Record of a Journey West, 1965). In 1967 he joined Kawabata Yasunari, Mishima Yukio and Abe Kōbō in issuing a statement protesting the destruction of Chinese art during the Chinese Cultural Revolution. Ishikawa was immensely popular in the post-war era, and won numerous awards. His \"Edo Bungaku Shoki\" (江戸 文学 掌記, A Brief Survey of Edo Literature, 1980), won the Yomiuri Literary Award.\n\nHe died of lung cancer while working on his last novel, \"Hebi no Uta\" (蛇 の 歌, A Song of Snakes, 1988),\n\n\n\n"}
