{"id": "1829226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829226", "title": "H. Rochester Sneath", "text": "H. Rochester Sneath\n\nH. Rochester Sneath MA L-ès-L (c. 1900 – ?) is a fictional character, headmaster of the fictional Selhurst school, who was created by Humphrey Berkeley in a series of hoax letters to public school headmasters and public figures in 1948.\n\nSneath was the headmaster of the fictional Selhurst School (\"near Petworth, Sussex\"). Selhurst supposedly had 175 male students.\n\nSelhurst School and Rochester Sneath were the inventions of Humphry Berkeley, then an undergraduate student at Pembroke College, Cambridge. \n\nBerkeley ordered headed notepaper printed with Selhurst's name and initially arranged with the Post Office to have mail sent to Selhurst School to be redirected to him, although the post office later refused to redirect mail from a nonexistent address. Berkeley then had to resort to asking correspondents to write to Sneath care of his \"sister, Mrs Harvey-Kelly\" at a Cambridge address (which was that of a fellow student).\n\nBerkley's earliest letters as Sneath, written in March 1948, were to the headmasters of several British public schools. \n\nThe Master of Marlborough College, F. M. Heywood, was livid when Sneath asked how he had \"engineered\" a recent visit of the royal family. Next, he received a letter in which Sneath warned that he should not hire a French teacher, 'Robert Agincourt', because he had climbed a tree naked. Finally, when asked to recommend a private detective and a competent nursery maid, Heywood wrote back, \"I am not an agency for domestic servants. I really must ask you not to bother me with this kind of thing.\"\n\nOther letters included written by Sneath included:\n\nSome of the headmasters answered politely to a person they thought to be a fellow headmaster; one even recommended Selhurst to a parent of a prospective pupil.\n\nPublic figures soon found themselves receiving letters too:\n\nTwo of Sneath's correspondents detected the hoax: one was Walter Oakeshott of Winchester College, who declined an invitation because he was attending a commemoration of a remote ancestor at Salt Lake City, Utah. The other was John Sinnott, rector of Beaumont College. When invited to lead an exorcism, Sinnott requested a packet of salt \"capable of being taken up in pinches\" be ready for him.\n\nOn 13 April 1948, Sneath's letter was published in the \"Daily Worker\", complaining of the difficulty in importing Russian textbooks for compulsory Russian lessons in his school. \n\nThe \"News Review\" asked to interview Sneath to discover more about this unusual school, but Sneath's \"secretary\", \"Penelope Pox-Rhyddene\", claimed he was ill. The journalist then visited Petworth to discover that there was no Selhurst School there, and subsequently turned up on the doorstep of Berkeley's friend's lodgings. \n\nA story in the \"News Review\" on 29 April revealed that Berkeley was behind the hoax.\n\nBerkeley was sent down (excluded from university) for two years. \n\nBerkeley was later elected Conservative Member of Parliament for Lancaster in the 1959 general election. \n\nThe Rochester Sneath letters were published in 1974 under the title \"The Life and Death of Rochester Sneath\", together with illustrations by Nicolas Bentley.\n"}
{"id": "1829228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829228", "title": "Louis-Michel van Loo", "text": "Louis-Michel van Loo\n\nLouis-Michel van Loo (2 March 1707, Toulon – 20 March 1771, Paris) was a French painter.\n\nHe studied under his father, the painter Jean-Baptiste van Loo, at Turin and Rome, and he won a prize at the \"Académie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture\" in Paris in 1725. With his uncle, the painter Charles-André van Loo, he went to Rome in 1727–1732, and in 1736 he became court painter to Philip V of Spain at Madrid, where he was a founder-member of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando in 1752. \n\nHe returned to Paris in 1753, and painted many portraits of Louis XV of France. In 1765 he succeeded Charles-André as director of the special school of the French academy known as the \"École Royale des Élèves Protégés\".\nIn 1766 he made the portrait of the Portuguese statesman Sebastião de Melo, Marquis of Pombal.\n\nAmong his brothers were the painters François van Loo (1708–1732) and Charles-Amédée-Philippe van Loo (1719–1795).\n"}
{"id": "1829229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829229", "title": "Padlock", "text": "Padlock\n\nPadlocks are portable locks with a shackle that may be passed through an opening (such as a chain link, or hasp staple) to prevent use, theft, vandalism or harm.\n\nThe term padlock is from the late fifteenth century. The prefix pad- is of unknown origin; it is combined with the noun lock, from Old English \"loc\", related to German \"loch\", \"hole\".\n\nThere are padlocks dating to the Roman Era, 500 BC – 300 AD. They were known in early times by merchants traveling the ancient trade routes to Asia, including China.\n\nPadlocks have been used in Europe since the middle La Tène period, subsequently spreading to the Roman world and the Przeworsk and Chernyakhov cultures. Roman padlocks had a long bent rod attached to the case, and a shorter piece which could be inserted into the case. Przeworsk and Chernyakhov padlocks had a sleeve attached to the case, and a long bent rod which could be inserted into the case and the sleeve.\n\nPadlocks have been used in China since the late Eastern Han Dynasty (25–220 AD). According to Hong-Sen Yan, director of the National Science and Technology Museum, early Chinese padlocks were mainly \"key-operated locks with splitting springs, and partially keyless letter combination locks\". Padlocks were made from bronze, brass, silver, and other materials. The use of bronze was more prevalent for the early Chinese padlocks.\n\nPadlocks with spring tine mechanisms have been found in York, England, at the Jorvik Viking settlement, dated 850 AD.\n\nSmokehouse locks, designed in England, were formed from wrought iron sheet and employed simple lever and ward mechanisms. These locks afforded little protection against forced and surreptitious entry. Contemporary with the smokehouse padlocks and originating in the Slavic areas of Europe, \"screw key\" padlocks opened with a helical key that was threaded into the keyhole. The key pulled the locking bolt open against a strong spring. Padlocks that offered more key variance were the demise of the screw lock. Improved manufacturing methods allowed the manufacture of better padlocks that put an end to the Smokehouse around 1910.\n\nAround the middle of the 19th century, \"Scandinavian\" style locks, or \"Polhem locks\", invented by the eponymous Swedish inventor Christopher Polhem, became a more secure alternative to the prevailing smokehouse and screw locks. These locks had a cast iron body that was loaded with a stack of rotating disks. Each disk had a central cutout to allow the key to pass through them and two notches cut out on the edge of the disc. When locked, the discs passed through cut-outs on the shackle. The key rotated each disk until the notches, placed along the edge of each tumbler in different places, lined up with the shackle, allowing the shackle to slide out of the body. The McWilliams company received a patent for these locks in 1871. The \"Scandinavian\" design was so successful that JHW Climax & Co. of Newark, New Jersey continued to make these padlocks until the 1950s. Today, other countries are still manufacturing this style of padlock.\n\nContemporary with the Scandinavian padlock, were the \"cast heart\" locks, so called because of their shape. A significantly stronger lock than the smokehouse and much more resistant to corrosion than the Scandinavian, the hearts had a lock body sand cast from brass or bronze and a more secure lever mechanism. Heart locks had two prominent characteristics: one was a spring-loaded cover that pivoted over the keyhole to keep dirt and insects out of the lock that was called a \"drop\". The other was a point formed at the bottom of the lock so a chain could be attached to the lock body to prevent the lock from getting lost or stolen. Cast heart locks were very popular with railroads for locking switches and cars because of their economical cost and excellent ability to open reliably in dirty, moist, and frozen environments.\n\nAround the 1870s, lock makers realized they could successfully package the same locking mechanism found in cast heart locks into a more economical steel or brass shell instead of having to cast a thick metal body. These lock shells were stamped out of flat metal stock, filled with lever tumblers, and then riveted together. Although more fragile than the cast hearts, these locks were attractive because they cost less. In 1908, Adams & Westlake patented a stamped & riveted switch lock that was so economical that many railroads stopped using the popular cast hearts and went with this new stamped shell lock body design. Many lock manufacturers made this very popular style of lock.\n\nIn 1877 Yale & Towne was granted a patent for a padlock that housed a stack of levers and had a shackle that swung away when unlocked. It was a notable design because the levers were sub-assembled into a \"cartridge\" that could be slid into a cast brass body shell. The assembly would remain together by means of two taper pins passed through the shell and cartridge. This design gave the commercial padlock market a serviceable, rekeyable padlock. About twenty years later Yale made another \"cartridge\" style padlock that employed their famous pin tumbler mechanism and a shackle that slid out of the body instead of swinging away.\n\nAlthough machining metal was a method that was available to lock makers since the early 19th century, it was not economically feasible to do so until the very early 20th century when electrical generation and distribution became widespread. Some of the earliest padlocks (c. 1905) that were made from a machined block of cast or extruded metal resemble today's modern padlock. Corbin and Eagle were one of the first lock makers to machine a solid block of metal and insert a relatively new pin tumbler mechanism and a sliding shackle into the holes machined into the body. This style of padlock was both strong and easy to manufacture. Many machined body padlocks were designed to be disassembled so that locksmiths could easily fit the locks to a certain key. The machined body padlocks are still very popular today. The process of machining allows many modern padlocks to have a \"shroud\" covering the shackle, which is an extension of the body around the shackle to protect the shackle from getting sheared or cut.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Harry Soref started Master Lock off with the first laminated padlock. Plates that were punched from sheet metal were stacked and assembled. Holes that were formed in the middle of the plates made room to accommodate the locking mechanism. The entire stack of plates, loaded with the lock parts in it, was riveted together. This padlock was popular for its low cost and impact-resistant laminated plate design. Today, many lock makers copy this very efficient and successful design.\n\nA quantitative measure of a padlock's tensile strength and resistance to forced and surreptitious entry can be determined with tests developed by organizations such as ASTM, Sold Secure (United Kingdom), CEN (Europe), and TNO (The Netherlands).\n\nA padlock is composed of a body, shackle, and locking mechanism. The typical shackle is a \"U\" shaped loop of metal (round or square in cross-section) that encompasses what is being secured by the padlock (e.g., chain link or hasp). Generally, most padlock shackles either swing away (typical of older padlocks) or slide out of the padlock body when in the unlocked position. Less common designs include a straight, circular, or flexible (cable) shackle. Some shackles split apart and come together to lock and unlock.\n\nThere are two basic types of padlock locking mechanisms: integrated & modular. Integrated locking mechanisms directly engage the padlock's shackle with the tumblers. Examples of integrated locking mechanisms are rotating disks (found in \"Scandinavian\" style padlocks where a disk rotated by the key enters a notch cut into the shackle to block it from moving) or lever tumblers (where a portion of the bolt that secures the shackle enters the tumblers when the correct key is turned in the lock). Padlocks with integrated locking mechanisms are characterized by a design that does not allow disassembly of the padlock. They are usually older than padlocks with modular mechanisms and often require the use of a key to lock.\n\nThe more modern modular locking mechanisms, however, do not directly employ the tumblers to lock the shackle. Instead, they have a plug within the \"cylinder\" that, with the correct key, turns and allows a mechanism, referred to as a \"locking dog\" (such as the ball bearings found in American Lock Company padlocks) to retract from notches cut into the shackle. Padlocks with modular locking mechanisms can often be taken apart to change the tumblers or to service the lock. Modular locking mechanism cylinders frequently employ pin, wafer, and disc tumblers. Padlocks with modular mechanisms are usually automatic, or self-locking (that is, the key is not required to lock the padlock)\n\nCombination locks do not use keys. Instead, the lock opens when its wheels are lined up correctly to display the correct combination. A padlock was invented by John I. W. Carlson in 1931 (a patent was granted in November 1934) that has both a combination on one side and a key on the other.\n\nImages of closed padlocks (sometimes physical padlocks) are sometimes used to indicate that something is secure or inaccessible.\nA widely known example is on the Web, where data in secure transactions is encrypted using public-key cryptography; some web browsers display a locked padlock icon while using the HTTPS protocol.\nLove locks are physical padlocks attached to fixtures such as bridges, gates, and monuments by sweethearts to declare their love for each other is permanent. This practice perhaps originated in Serbia. In some popular tourist locations, huge numbers of such padlocks are treated as a nuisance by local authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829236", "title": "David Begelman", "text": "David Begelman\n\nDavid Begelman (August 26, 1921 – August 7, 1995) was an American film producer, film executive and talent agent who was involved in a studio embezzlement scandal in the 1970s.\n\nBegelman was born to a Jewish family in New York City. His father was a Manhattan tailor.\n\nBegelman was in the United States Army Air Forces during World War II. He then became a student at New York University. Following college, he worked in the insurance business. He worked at the Music Corporation of America (MCA Inc.) for more than 11 years starting in the mid-1950s, eventually becoming vice president. He left in 1960 to co-found the talent agency Creative Management Associates (CMA) with Freddie Fields. Their clients included Judy Garland, Barbra Streisand, Liza Minnelli, Woody Allen, Gregory Peck, Paul Newman, Steve McQueen, Jackie Gleason and Fred Astaire. At CMA, Fields and Begelman pioneered the movie \"package\", where the talent agency put their stars, directors and writers together on a single project.\n\nBegelman left CMA in 1973 to take over the floundering Columbia Pictures. Begelman used his package method at Columbia, dramatically changing the company's image by producing such hits as \"Shampoo\" (1975), \"Funny Lady\" (1975) and \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\" (1977). Begelman was among the first Hollywood agents to cross over and rise to the top of the studio system.\n\nIn February 1977, actor Cliff Robertson received a 1099 form from the IRS indicating he had received $10,000 from Columbia Pictures during 1976. He had never received the money, and discovered that his signature on the cashed check had been forged. Robertson's report started a criminal investigation. The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) verified that the $10,000 check was a forgery, and it was tracked to Begelman. He was ultimately fined and sentenced to community service and a public service, anti-drug documentary for the forgeries.\n\nColumbia Pictures suspended Begelman on a paid vacation and announced its own investigation. The studio discovered that Begelman had embezzled an additional $65,000 through other forged checks. However, the studio board of directors wanted to keep the matter out of the press. The Begelman scandal led to a rift between Columbia executives. Columbia Pictures CEO Alan Hirschfield was ousted from the studio in 1978 following his refusal to reinstate Begelman on moral grounds. Following a brief reinstatement, Begelman was quietly fired. The studio released a statement saying he had suffered emotional problems.\n\nDespite the pressure to remain quiet, Robertson and his wife Dina Merrill spoke to the press. David McClintick broke the story in \"The Wall Street Journal\" in 1978, later turning it into a best-selling book, \"Indecent Exposure\" (1982). Robertson later claimed he had been blacklisted during the 1980s for coming forward about the Begelman affair, and had few roles during this period.\n\nKirk Douglas, in his autobiography \"The Ragman's Son\" (1988), wrote of the scandal: \nA writer for \"New West\" magazine, working on this story, queried Begelman's claimed alma mater, Yale University, listed in his \"Who's Who\" entry. Yale responded that Begelman had never attended that university. The \"New West\" article said that \"although Begelman was indicted for forgery and grand theft, the Hollywood types were more outraged that he had listed Yale in \"Who's Who\". Apparently they figured that everybody steals money. It was the fact that he lied about Yale that drove them crazy.\"\n\nIn 1993, a book by Coyne Steven Sanders, \"Rainbow's End: The Judy Garland Show\" (Morrow 1990), about the history of Judy Garland's CBS Television series \"The Judy Garland Show\" (1963–1964), devoted a chapter to possible embezzlement of Garland's funds by Begelman. Garland's estranged husband at the time, Sid Luft, hired an attorney to audit her income from the time Begelman began representing her with fellow agent Freddie Fields. It was discovered that several hundred thousand dollars were missing, much of it written in checks to \"Cash\" and endorsed by Begelman at various casinos in Las Vegas. Other entries in her accounts showed large sums paid for \"protection\" with no authorization, all approved by Begelman, though Garland had no personal security. In addition, a 1963 Cadillac convertible, given to Garland as partial payment for appearances on Jack Paar's television program, was titled to Begelman. Garland never knew the car was part of her compensation for her appearance.\n\nIn addition, Begelman told Garland a photo existed of her, partially nude, having her stomach pumped in a hospital emergency room after a drug overdose in London, and that blackmailers were demanding $50,000 to turn over the picture and all negatives. As she was in negotiations with CBS at the time for her new television series, Garland paid rather than face the adverse publicity and potentially damaging the deal's prospects. Luft's attorney eventually determined that the check went to a holding company with a business address in New York City owned by Begelman, and was further traced to a personal account of Begelman.\n\nRather than confront Begelman at a time when he was playing such a pivotal role in her show business re-emergence, Garland decided to eat the financial losses based upon the promise of millions coming from the deal with CBS. However, once her show was cancelled, she and Luft sued Begelman for the hundreds of thousands he had allegedly stolen as well as $1 million in punitive damages. Due to her dire financial situation at the time, Garland was forced to settle the suit for royalties owed her by Capitol Records that Begelman and Fields, as her agents, had collected but were holding because of the lawsuit.\n\nIn January 1980, Begelman returned to the production world and became COO and president of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer signing a four-year contract worth $1.9 million. In 1981, MGM acquired United Artists and in October, Begelman was appointed as chairman and CEO of UA but with the exception of \"Fame\" and \"Poltergeist\", he was unable to repeat his success at Columbia and was dismissed in 1982. After leaving MGM/UA, Begelman was offered a position to run a production company, Sherwood Productions, by backer Bruce McNall. Under Sherwood, Begelman backed \"WarGames\" (which started production at MGM), \"Mr. Mom\", \"The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension\", and \"Blame It on Rio\". According to the makers of \"Buckaroo Banzai\", Begelman continued to be engaged in fraud: reporting inflated figures to investors but producing the films for much less to pocket the difference.\n\nWhen investor Nelson Bunker Hunt pulled out of Sherwood in 1984, Begelman took the slack and founded Gladden Entertainment (named after Gladyce, his wife) with the remaining assets and repartnering with McNall. There, he greenlit \"Mannequin\", \"Weekend at Bernie's\", \"The Fabulous Baker Boys\", \"Short Time\" and \"\". \"Short Time\" and \"Mannequin Two\" did poorly. In 1988, McNall sold 40% of his ownership to foreign investors. At the 1993 Cannes Film Festival, Begelman revealed that the company had a distribution deal with MGM, Live Entertainment and Rank Film Distributors for 10-film and $150-million. However, Credit Lyonnais had placed a lien on Gladden's assets as the bank was owed $90 million. A petition was filed by Hollywood's three major talent guilds in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Los Angeles to liquidate the company for failure to pay actors, directors and writers residuals in the amount of $4.1 million. Begelman left Gladden Entertainment to found Gladden Productions. However, he was not able to get funding for the new production company.\n\nBegelman was married four times. His first wife was Ester Begelman, a sister of a friend; she died of breast cancer after seven years of marriage. His second wife was Lee Reynolds; they had one daughter, Leslie Begelman Belskie, before divorcing. In 1975, he married Gladyce Largever, former wife of New York real estate developer Lewis Rudin; she died in 1986 of cancer. After his wife's death, he lived with actress Sandra Grant Bennett until in 1990, he married Annabelle Weston.\n\nBegelman became depressed over his Gladden Entertainment bankruptcy and failure to find funding for Gladden Productions. Begelman was found shot dead in a room at the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles on August 7, 1995 at the age of 73. His death was ruled a suicide; he was interred at Hillside Memorial Park Cemetery in Culver City. At his death he was married to his fourth wife and was survived by his daughter, a sister and a brother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829237", "title": "Rosika Schwimmer", "text": "Rosika Schwimmer\n\nRosika Schwimmer (; 11 September 1877 – 3 August 1948) was a Hungarian-born pacifist, feminist and female suffragist. Born into a Jewish family in Budapest in 1877, she graduated from public school in 1891. An accomplished linguist, she spoke or read eight languages. In her early career, she had difficulty finding a job that paid a living wage and was sensitized by that experience to women's employment issues. Gathering data to provide statistics on working women, Schwimmer came into contact with members of the international women's suffrage movement and by 1904 became involved in the struggle. She co-founded the first national women's labor umbrella organization in Hungary and the Hungarian Feminist Association. She also assisted in organizing the Seventh Conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance, hosted in Budapest in 1913.\n\nThe following year, Schwimmer was hired as a press secretary of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance in London. When World War I broke out, she was branded an enemy alien and left Europe for the United States, where she spoke on suffrage and pacifism. She was one of the founders of the Woman's Peace Party and the organization which would become the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. In 1915, after attending the International Congress of Women in The Hague, she worked with other feminists to persuade foreign ministers in Europe to support the creation of a body to peacefully mediate world affairs and was instrumental in convincing Henry Ford to charter the Peace Ship. From 1916 to 1918, Schwimmer lived in Europe working on various plans to end the war. With the establishment of the First Hungarian Republic, she was appointed as one of the world's first female ambassadors (from Hungary to Switzerland) in 1918. When the Republic was toppled by a \"coup d'état\", she fled to the United States, renouncing her Hungarian citizenship.\n\nApplying for naturalization, Schwimmer was rejected on the basis of her pacifism. The case was overturned on appeal in 1928, and the following year the appeal was overturned by the US Supreme Court in the decision \"United States v. Schwimmer\". For the remainder of her life, she remained stateless. Unable to work because of ill-health and a smear campaign, she was supported by loyal friends. In 1935, Schwimmer and Mary Ritter Beard established the World Center for Women's Archives to create an educational reference for women's history and document the individual and organizational achievements of influential women. She was one of the first world federalists, proposing a world government in 1937. Nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1948, she died before the committee decided not to award it that year. In 1952, naturalization laws in the United States were changed to allow for conscientious objection.\n\nRózsa Schwimmer was born in Budapest, Austria-Hungary on 11 September 1877 to Bertha (née Katscher) and Max Bernat Schwimmer. The oldest of three children, she was raised in an upper-middle-class Jewish family in Temesvár, Transylvania (today Timișoara, Romania). Her father was an agricultural merchant, involved in trading grain, horses and other products, who also ran an experimental farm. Her maternal uncle, Leopold Katscher was a noted writer and peace activist, who was a strong influence on Schwimmer. She attended primary school briefly in Budapest and after the family moved to Transylvania was educated in a convent school. Graduating from the public school in 1891, she studied music and languages at the music school in Szabadka (today Subotica). Though she only attended eight grades, she spoke English, French, German, and Hungarian, and was able to read Dutch, Italian, Norwegian, and Swedish. In 1893 and 1894, she took evening classes at a business school until her father's bankruptcy forced the family to return to Budapest.\n\nSchwimmer first worked as a governess, and then had several short-term jobs in Temesvár and Szabadka. In 1895, she found work as a bookkeeper and correspondent clerk. She began working for the \"Nőtisztviselők Országos Egyesülete\" (National Association of Women Office Workers) in 1897 and by 1901 had become president of the organization. Having experienced the difficulty of finding a job which paid a living wage, in an era when women were discouraged from seeking economic independence, Schwimmer chose to make a real difference for working women. Finding no acceptance or interest in addressing the issues women laborers encountered from national trade unions, she began collecting data to compile statistics. She wrote to the Department of Commerce to acquire data on women's employment and sought archived copies of \"Nemzeti Nőnevelés\" (National Women's Education), the most important journal of the era which analyzed the condition of women in education and labor. To compare the situation in Hungary with that of working women elsewhere, Schwimmer began writing to international feminist organizations to collect statistics on women's working conditions in other countries.\n\nThrough her correspondence to collect data, Schwimmer came in contact with influential figures of the international women's movement, like Aletta Jacobs, Marie Lang and Adelheid Popp, who encouraged her to found a women's organization that would unite various associations dealing with varied women's issues. When she lost her job at the National Association of Women Office Workers, Schwimmer began working as a journalist in late 1901. She wrote for \"Export Review\" and then was employed at Lloyd's News Agency, before becoming a regular contributor to international feminist magazines. She also worked as a translator, creating Hungarian versions of such works as \"Women and Economics\" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. In 1903, she co-founded with Mariska Gárdos, the \"Magyarországi Munkásnő Egyesület\" (Hungarian Women Workers Association), the first national women's labor umbrella organization. The following year, as part of the press, she attended the inaugural conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance. She was asked to speak at the conference on labor conditions of industrial workers in Hungary. While there, she met many of the leading feminists of the international movement. Attracted to her charismatic personality, American suffragist Carrie Chapman Catt recruited Schwimmer to help in the efforts for women's suffrage. The two developed a deep friendship with Catt mentoring her younger companion.\n\nUpon her return home, Schwimmer co-founded the Hungarian Feminist Association () with Vilma Glücklich. They were joined by other prominent feminists like Eugénia Miskolczy Meller. The radical organization set out to work for gender equality in all aspects of women's lives, including education, employment, access to birth control, reform of laws governing married women's socioeconomic status, enfranchisement, and women's inheritance rights, as well as curtailing child labor. In 1907, to counteract the unfavorable press they received from the media at large, the Feminist Association founded the journal \"A Nő és a Társadalom\" (Women and Society), with Schwimmer as editor-in-chief. It published articles on careers, child care, domestic work, labor, legal issues and sexual abuse. She gained national prominence that year for a dispute with law professor and MP, , who introduced a measure to implement stricter limits for women's admission to higher education. Kmety dubbed educated women as \"female monsters\", who aimed to destroy families. Schwimmer's rebuttal to his claims disclosed the fact that Kmety's wife had graduated from a normal school. Though she had won the argument, criticism of the Feminist Association continued.\nIn 1911, Schwimmer married a journalist, Pál Bédy and took his name (\"Bédy-Schwimmer\") but he either died in 1912, or they divorced in 1913. After their breakup she removed his surname and returned to using Schwimmer, keeping the fact that she had ever been married a life-long secret. \n\nIn 1913, she helped the Feminist Association organize the Seventh Conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance which ran from 15 to 21 June in Budapest. Garnering support from both the national and city government, the convention was the first such large-scale event to be held in Austria-Hungary, attracting around 3,000 international delegates. Schwimmer arranged for university students to provide translation services and presented an update on the progress of suffrage in Hungary. Trips were also organized to Debrecen, Nagyvárad (today Oradea) and Szeged, as well as smaller villages, so that the feminists could see more of the country. The behavior of the feminists at the conference significantly changed the stereotypes that had previously been ascribed to women's rights advocates. After the close of the conference, Schwimmer changed the name of the Feminist Association's journal to \"A Nő\" (The Woman). In August, she attended the Universal Peace Congress in The Hague, which deepened her interest in pacifism.\n\nBy this time, Schwimmer had traveled widely throughout Europe on lecture tours. An extrovert and experienced journalist, she knew how to appeal to her audience. Known for her comedic wit and clever satire, she was able to convince men to support women's rights and caused women to laugh at men using pointed attacks laced with humor. Thanks to her strong, energetic personality, which some described as stubborn, she often went beyond the limitations women were expected to observe. She was an \"uncompromising pacifist\", a humanist, and an atheist. With her Jewish heritage and foreign status, she often experienced anti-Semitic and xenophobic attacks. She smoked and drank wine, which was unusual at the time, and wore loose-fitting, corsetless dresses with her trademark pince-nez glasses. Of stocky build, she typically wore her black, frizzy hair in a bun at the nape of her neck. She described herself as a \"very, very radical feminist\" and was known to elicit either love or hate from others—\"frequently people did both at different times\".\n\nSchwimmer's international contacts resulted in an invitation for her to become the press secretary of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance, leading her to move to London for the job. She also worked as a correspondent of various European newspapers. When World War I broke out, she could not return home and began to agitate for the end of hostilities. She resigned from her post with the Suffrage Alliance, fearing her nationality would cause problems for the women's movement and her own ability to continue pressing for peace. Branded as an enemy alien in 1914, she left Britain to tour the United States and press for an end to the war. Schwimmer spoke in 22 different states, urging women to press for diplomatic mediation of the European conflict. She met with President Woodrow Wilson and Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan, but was unsuccessful in her attempts to organize a neutral conference to bring both sides of the conflict together.\nSchwimmer took part in the formation of the Woman's Peace Party in 1915, becoming a secretary of the organization. Because of the war, the biennial conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance was postponed. Chrystal Macmillan proposed that suffragists should hold a conference to discuss international peace principles and Aletta Jacobs suggested that the Netherlands, as a neutral nation, could host the event. Schwimmer was asked to secure Catt as the chair of the conference but, unable to convince her, she approached social reformer, Jane Addams, who agreed to serve as conference chair. At the International Congress of Women, held in The Hague from 28 April, Schwimmer and Julia Grace Wales, a Canadian academic, proposed a \"continuous conference of neutrals\" between governments be formed to mediate conflicts and restore peace. During the conference the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace was established, which would become the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF). Schwimmer was selected as one of its board members.\n\nAfter the conference closed on 3 May 1915, Schwimmer, Addams and Jacobs, along with Macmillan, Emily Greene Balch, Mien van Wulfften Palthe and others, formed two delegations of women who met with European heads of state over the next several months. The women secured agreement from reluctant foreign ministers, who overall felt that a mediating body would be ineffective. In spite of their hesitancy, the ministers agreed to participate, or at least not impede, the creation of a neutral assembly, if other nations agreed and if US President Woodrow Wilson would initiate its establishment. In the midst of the war, Wilson refused. By the time Schwimmer returned from Europe in the fall, sentiment had changed in the United States and many feminists believed that pacifism would hurt the cause for suffrage. Disagreeing with them, Schwimmer did not think the struggle for women's rights should focus solely on attaining suffrage. She strongly believed broader changes were needed and women's voices were crucial for ending violence against humanity. She also felt that neither Catt nor Addams worked hard enough to secure the broad support needed for peace work from reform-minded women. Determined to continue pressing for a mediation conference, she decided that if politicians and feminists would not act, it would fall on individuals to work to end the war.\nHenry Ford, the automobile magnate, had pledged $10 million towards peace initiatives which would result in action to end the war. Teacher Rebecca Shelley and poet Angela Morgan became convinced that Ford and Schwimmer should meet. They arranged a series of demonstrations and public meetings in Detroit hoping that publicity would facilitate a meeting. When it did not have the desired effect, Shelley met with the editor of the \"Detroit Journal\" and a reporter, Ralph Yonker, who was a favorite of Ford, set up an interview for Schwimmer. Within three weeks, in early December, she set sail aboard a Peace Ship to Stockholm, chartered by Ford, with him and other pacifists. The \"Oskar II\" arrived in Christiania, Norway on 18 December, but without a definite plan of how they would end the war. Without strong leadership from Ford, the pacifists on board jockeyed for power positions, and Schwimmer was resented for having been entrusted with the international correspondence from heads of state. Confronted with ridicule and hostility by the press, and in Schwimmer's case suspicion because of her Hungarian roots, Ford returned to the United States abandoning the peace mission to the Women's International Peace Association on 24 December. Disappointed with Ford's efforts, Schwimmer persevered for several months, but exhaustion and a heart condition led her to resign and withdraw from the mission in March 1916. Failure to secure the backing of the peace mission from the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace and hurt by both Addams and Jacobs lack of support, she resigned from the committee. She was unable to return to the United States until August and stayed only about a month before she was back in Sweden, suffering from illness.\nAccording to Beth S. Wenger, chair of the history department at the University of Pennsylvania, the debacle of the Peace Ship \"signaled the beginning of a smear campaign against [Schwimmer] and the eventual termination of her public career\". Though Henry Ford's anti-Semitic beliefs that German-Jewish bankers had caused the war predated his involvement with Schwimmer, she was portrayed in the American press as the reason for his prejudices. She was also accused of swindling Ford out of money, being a German spy, and a Bolshevik agent. Until the end of the war she remained in Europe, returning to Hungary in 1918. Having gained the country's independence, Mihály Károlyi was selected as the new Hungarian prime minister. He appointed Schwimmer as the ambassador to Switzerland, making her one of the world's first female ambassadors. Károlyi also tabled a bill guaranteeing women's suffrage for literate women over the age of 24, which was passed by the Parliament later that year. In February 1919, in Berne, Schwimmer organized a peace conference for the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace; however, she was recalled from her post days before the communist \"coup d'état\" in March. Barred from leaving Hungary, Schwimmer was unable to attend the Zurich Peace Conference in May. Béla Kun's communist government was soon overthrown by another \"coup d'état\" placing István Friedrich as the head of the government. Friedrich's inadequacy led Admiral Miklós Horthy's forces to try to establish order by implementing a reign of White Terror by cleansing the country of Jews and communists. In 1920, Schwimmer fled to Vienna where she lived as a refugee, financially supported by her friend Lola Maverick Lloyd, until she secured permission to emigrate to the United States in 1921.\n\nSchwimmer renounced her Hungarian citizenship and arrived in the United States on 26 August 1921, first settling in Winnetka, Illinois, near Chicago with Lloyd. She had every intention of resuming her journalistic and lecturing career, but soon found she was blacklisted. In 1919, New York State had launched the Lusk Investigation to examine the activities of radical people and organizations liable to threaten the nation's security. They included educators, journalists, reform organizations and religious institutions. Feminists and pacifists were branded as subversives; in particular, the women involved in the creation of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom were accused of a lack of loyalty because of their international focus and for leaning toward communism. As Schwimmer was one of the founders, she was listed as a dangerous element in the Lusk Report. Military officials and right-wing women's organizations, such as the Daughters of the American Revolution, joined in the Red Scare tactics to focus suspicion on the activities of pacifists and suffragists.\n\nCatt and Addams both drew criticism from anti-radical groups and because of her link to them, Schwimmer, and those who associated with her, became targets for those seeking to attack leaders in the feminist movement. Schwimmer was accused of having prevented the United States from preparing sooner for the war, was called a spy, and her peace initiatives were twisted from being humanitarian missions into strategic plots to aid the Germans and their allies. Other distortions accused her of having been a diplomat in Kun's brief communist regime and a member of an international Jewish conspiracy. To prevent the attacks leveled at Schwimmer from harming the campaign for suffrage, Catt distanced herself, causing her pain and a feeling of abandonment. The Jewish community which had welcomed her before the war largely blamed Schwimmer for Ford's anti-Semitic campaign published between 1920 and 1922 in \"The Dearborn Independent\", though Ford \"never indicated that Schwimmer played any such role\".\n\nIn 1924, Schwimmer applied for naturalization as a U.S. citizen. When she completed the questionnaire, she left both the question about whether she had registered for the draft and whether she would take up arms in defense of the country blank, assuming they did not apply to women. After review, her file was returned to the Chicago office with a directive for Schwimmer to answer if she would bear arms. Against the advice of Fred Schlotfeldt, the District Director of Naturalization, Schwimmer, believing that as no woman was compelled to fight in any country honesty was required, answered that she would not personally take up arms. Two years later, her second interview was called and she explained in detail that defending the country did not necessarily require her physical action, but instead could be a verbal or written defense of principles. She was also questioned about her atheism, her views of nationalism, and her commitment to pacifism. Schwimmer responded that faith was a personal choice and in line with the idea of separation of church and state. She also stated that nationalism was a choice, that she had given up her Hungarian citizenship to pursue U.S. naturalization, and she reiterated that she would not compromise her pacifism.\n\nAfter the interview, Schlotfeldt advised the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois that Schwimmer qualified for citizenship, but that she might have mental reservations about taking an oath of allegiance. Her case was called on 13 October 1927 with Judge George A. Carpenter presiding. The pivotal question in her hearing was asked by Carpenter:\n\nHer application was denied solely on the basis that Schwimmer refused to take up arms in defense of the country. On the advice of her attorneys and Judge Carpenter, she immediately appealed the decision. Notoriety and negative publicity made it difficult for her to earn a living or support her mother and sister, who lived with her. She spent most of her remaining life fighting slander against her. After Fred Marvin, a Republican and anti-radical who was editor of the \"New York Daily Commercial\", accused her of being a German spy and a Bolshevik agent, she sued and received $17,000 in damages in July 1928. The following day, her case in the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit on her denial of citizenship was unanimously overturned, concluding that \"women are considered incapable of bearing arms\" and thus could not be forced under the law to do so.\n\nActing Secretary of Labor, Robe Carl White, Attorney General John G. Sargent, and the Acting Solicitor General Oscar Raymond Luhring were asked to review the decision for the Commissioner of Naturalization to determine if a petition for review should be sent to the US Supreme Court. Believing that Schwimmer's influence as a writer and public speaker could sway others to refuse to perform military service, Luhring and Sargent examined the court records, but were unable to find any point of law on which to base a review. Urged by White to reconsider the opinion, Sargent replied that Schwimmer appeared to be a fanatical idealist of intelligence and ability and that there was no evidence that had been presented in court to substantiate that she had a sinister character. Nonetheless, he prepared the petition for certiorari, which White clearly wanted. In a 6 to 3 decision of the \"United States v. Schwimmer\", handed down on 27 May 1929, Associate Justice Pierce Butler determined that pacifists should not be allowed to become citizens. In a dissenting opinion, Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. put forth that free thought was a tenet of the Constitution and had no bearing on whether someone should be admitted to or live in the country. He also pointed out that as a woman over 50, even had she wanted to take up arms, she would not be allowed to do so.\n\nHaving been denied citizenship, Schwimmer became stateless and remained so throughout the remainder of her life. She proposed that the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom host a conference to address the issue of a lack of nationality. The event was held in Geneva in 1930 and she drafted a plan for world citizens to be internationally recognized. Because of poor health, which included complications from diabetes, and an inability to work, she was supported by loyal friends. In the early 1930s, she moved to New York City, where she lived with her sister, Franciska, a pianist, and her secretary, Edith Wynner. In 1935, she formed the World Center for Women's Archives with Mary Ritter Beard. The purpose of the archive was to document the individual and organizational achievements of influential women as an educational reference for women to study the history other women. Schwimmer received an honorary World Peace Prize in 1937, organized by Catt, Albert Einstein, Sylvia Pankhurst, Romain Rolland, Margaret Sanger, and others, which provided her with a prize of $7,000.\n\nAlso in 1937, Schwimmer formed the Campaign for World Government with Lloyd, the first World Federalist organization of the 20th century. The purpose of the organization was to establish world governance with a constitution, elected representation, a supranational legal system to resolve conflicts between nations, and an International Criminal Court to address human rights issues. Schwimmer was one of the pioneers who backed creation of the International Court of Justice as a means to provide equal participation and protection for all people regardless of ethnicity, race, or gender. Between 1938 and 1945, Schwimmer campaigned to aid European colleagues, such as Helene Stöcker, escape from Nazi Germany. In 1946, \"United States v. Schwimmer\" was overturned in \"Girouard v. United States\", which determined that the Supreme Court had used an incorrect rule of law in \"Schwimmer\", as well as in the cases \"United States v. Macintosh, 283 U.S. 605 (1931)\" and \"United States v. Bland, 283 U.S. 636 (1931)\". In 1948 she was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize but had little chance of obtaining it, in spite of support from backers in Britain, France, Hungary, Italy, Sweden, and the United States. No prize was given that year, the Nobel Committee concluding that \"no one living deserved it\", an allusion widely considered to be referring to the death of the Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nRosika Schwimmer died of pneumonia on 3 August 1948 in New York City. She was buried the following day at Ferncliff Cemetery. She is remembered as one of the primary spokespersons for Hungarian women in the era before World War I and as the co-founder of the Hungarian suffrage movement. Schwimmer's unpopularity during her lifetime discouraged scholarship. Historians in the 21st century have begun to analyze her life and reassess her import. After the World Centre for Women's Archives closed in 1940, Schwimmer's papers have been held in various archives including the Benson Ford Research Center in Dearborn, Michigan, Hoover Institution Archives at Stanford University, the Peace Collection at Swarthmore College, and in the \"Schwimmer-Lloyd Collection\" of the New York Public Library.\n\nSchwimmer's story illustrates the profound changes that occurred in the United States in the interwar period. Although she was never granted American citizenship, her life paralleled shifts in American society and values. Upon her arrival in the United States there was optimism that World War I could end quickly. When she returned in 1921, her pacifism was seen as a sign of disloyalty. A rising conservatism affected feminist groups and transformed them. Although the Peace Ship mission was largely seen as a failure, it changed the war press coverage in Europe, which to that point had been highly censored. The conference that was established in Stockholm in February 1916 served as a clearinghouse for discussing the war and how to end it. It also helped neutral nations avoid bowing to the pressure to enter the war. Her citizenship case became the basis for a lengthy campaign to change the naturalization laws to recognize that philosophical or religious belief were inadequate reasons for denial of citizenship. In 1952, the law was finally changed to allow conscientious objectors to take an oath that they agree to serve in a non-combatant capacity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829245", "title": "Great Diamond Hoax", "text": "Great Diamond Hoax\n\nThe diamond hoax of 1872 was a swindle in which a pair of prospectors sold a false American diamond deposit to prominent businessmen in San Francisco and New York City. It also triggered a brief diamond prospecting craze in the western United States, in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, and Colorado.\n\nIn 1871, veteran prospectors and cousins Philip Arnold and John Slack traveled to San Francisco. They reported a diamond mine and produced a bag full of diamonds. They stored the diamonds in the vault of the Bank of California, founded by William Chapman Ralston.\n\nProminent financiers convinced the \"reluctant\" Arnold and Slack to speak out on their find. The cousins offered to lead investigators to their field. Investors hired a mining engineer to examine the field. They planted their diamonds on a remote location in northwest Colorado Territory. They then led the investors west from St. Louis, Missouri in June 1872. Arriving by train at the town of Rawlins, in the Wyoming Territory, they continued on horseback. But Arnold and Slack wanted to keep the exact location a secret, so they led the group on a confusing four-day journey through the countryside. The group finally reached a huge field with various gems on the ground. Tiffany's evaluated the stones as being worth $150,000.\n\nWhen the engineer made his report, more businessmen expressed interest. They included banker Ralston, General George S. Dodge, Horace Greeley, Asbury Harpending, George McClellan, Baron von Rothschild, and Charles Tiffany of Tiffany and Co. The investors convinced the cousins to sell their interest for $660,000 ($ million today) and formed the San Francisco and New York Mining and Commercial Company. They selected New York attorney Samuel Latham Mitchill Barlow as legal representative. Barlow convinced them to add U.S. Congressman Benjamin F. Butler to the legal staff. Barlow set up a New York corporation known as the Golconda Mining Company with capital stock of $10,000,000, while Butler was given one thousand shares for amending the General Mining Act of 1872 to include the terms “valuable mineral deposits” in order to allow legal mining claims in the diamond fields. The U.S. Attorney General, George H. Williams issued an opinion on August 31, 1872, specifically stating that the terms “valuable mineral deposits” included diamonds.\n\nFinanciers sent mining engineer Henry Janin, who bought stock in the company, to evaluate the find. Arnold and Slack led him and a group of investors to just north of what is now called Diamond Peak in the remote northwest corner of the Colorado Territory, where Janin and the investors found enough diamonds in the soil to satisfy themselves. Janin submitted a highly optimistic report, which found its way into the press.\n\nGeologist Clarence King who had led a survey team that recently completed a Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel had a chance meeting with Janin on a train. King and his team were alarmed at the reports of such an prominent diamond field which their survey had not noted. King sent geologist Samuel Franklin Emmons and cartographer A. D. Wilson ahead to investigate, with King joining them soon after. Upon locating the site, they quickly concluded that it had been salted (as a geologist, King was aware that the various stones formed under different conditions and would never be found together in a single deposit), and notified investors.\n\nFurther investigation showed Arnold and Slack bought cheap cast-off diamonds, refuse of gem cutting, in London and Amsterdam for $35,000 and scattered them to \"salt\" the ground. Most of the gems were originally from South Africa.\n\nArnold returned to his home in Elizabethtown, Kentucky, and became a successful businessman and banker. Diamond-company investors sued him, and he settled the cases for an undisclosed sum. Years later he died of pneumonia after he was wounded in a shootout with a rival banker.\n\nJohn Slack dropped from public view. He moved to St. Louis, where he owned a casket-making company. He later became a casket maker and undertaker in White Oaks, New Mexico, where he lived quietly and died in 1896 at the age of 76.\n\nThe story of the great hoax was featured in several television programs in the 1950s and 1960s. Marc Hamilton played investor Asbury Harpending (a colorful character known for numerous escapades) in the 1955 episode \"A Killing in Diamonds\" of the syndicated western television series \"Death Valley Days\". Vaughn Taylor played Harpending in a 1965 episode of the same series, \"Raid on the San Francisco Mint,\" which was hosted by Ronald W. Reagan, who was cast in the starring role of banker William Chapman Ralston. \"Death Valley Days\" aired a third story devoted to the hoax, the 1968 episode \"The Great Diamond Mines\", with Philip Arnold played by Gavin MacLeod, John Slack by John Fiedler and Ralston by Tod Andrews.\n\nA first-season episode of \"Maverick\" (January 1958), \"Diamond in the Rough\", was based on the hoax.\n\nThe incident was also dramatized as \"The Great Diamond Mountain\" on the television series \"The Great Adventure\" in 1963. Arnold was played by John Fiedler, Slack by John McGiver, Ralston by Barry Sullivan, and con-breaking geologist Clarence King by J. D. Cannon.\n\nA mystery, \"The Dangerous Angel Affair\" by Clarence Budington Kelland, revolves around the hoax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829250", "title": "Socialist Workers Party (Denmark)", "text": "Socialist Workers Party (Denmark)\n\nSocialist Workers Party (), now known as Socialist Workers Politics (Danish: \"Socialisitks Arbejderpolitik\"), is a Trotskyist political party in Denmark. SAP is the Danish section of the (reunified) Fourth International, and was founded in 1979 as a continuation of \"Revolutionære Socialisters Forbund (RSF)\" - Revolutionary Socialists' League.\n\nSAP was a co-founder of the Red-Green Alliance in 1989 and its members are active within the Alliance.\n\nSAP publishes the quarterly Socialistisk Information (SI).\n\nIn 2014 SAP replaced \"Party\" with \"Politics\" in their name, as they no longer contested elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829255", "title": "F. Bam Morrison", "text": "F. Bam Morrison\n\nF. Bam Morrison is an American fraudster who fooled the town of Wetumka, Oklahoma, into sponsoring a non-existent circus. Some authorities name him as J. Bam Morrison.\n\nMorrison arrived at Wetumka in 1950 claiming to be an advance public-relations man for the \"Bohn's United Circus\", which was supposedly coming to town in three weeks, on (July 24). He promised great opportunities in the form of tourism and the local purchase of circus supplies. \n\nMorrison sold advertising space on the circus grounds, promising that the circus would buy its supplies exclusively from the advertisers. The merchants of the town stocked their storage spaces in expectation of increased sales. Morrison collected all money in cash and, after two weeks, he left.\n\nNo circus arrived on July 24. Residents of Wetumka decided to spend the day in celebration anyway and started the tradition of the annual \"Sucker Day\" with a parade and street fair. Sucker Day has been celebrated every year since, with the exception of 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829263", "title": "John Middleton (giant)", "text": "John Middleton (giant)\n\nJohn Middleton (1578–1623) was an English giant who was born in the village of Hale and is commonly known as the \"Childe of Hale\". Legend tells that he slept with his feet out of the window of his small house. Tales also credit him with great strength.\n\nJohn Middleton was born in the village of Hale, near Liverpool. According to contemporary accounts and his epitaph, Middleton grew to the height of and slept with his feet hanging out the window of his house.\nBecause of his size the landlord and sheriff of Lancashire, Gilbert Ireland, hired him as a bodyguard. When King James I stopped by in 1617 to knight Ireland he heard about Middleton and invited both of them to the court, which they accepted in 1620.\n\nMiddleton beat the King's champion in wrestling and in doing so broke the man's thumb. He received £20, a large amount of money in those times. Unfortunately, jealous of his wealth, Middleton's companions mugged him or swindled him out of his money while he was returning to Hale.\n\nJohn Middleton died impoverished in 1623. He was buried in the cemetery of St Mary's Church in Hale. The epitaph reads, \"Here lyeth the bodie of John Middleton the Childe of Hale. Nine feet three. Borne 1578 Dyed 1623.\"\n\nThough his true height will probably never be known, he is likely one of the tallest people in history. If these height markings are accurate, he would surpass Robert Wadlow's stature of 8'11.\n\nThere have been numerous local uses and commemorations of Middleton; a pub in Hale, named \"The Childe of Hale\", bears a copy of the Brasenose College portrait as its sign. Previously situated across the road from the church was a large tree trunk. In 1996 it was carved with representations of John Middleton, Hale Lighthouse and other local symbols. In 2011, due to disease and in the interests of public safety the tree trunk was removed by Halton Borough Council. In April 2013, the wooden sculpture was replaced by a bronze statue 3 m tall by local sculptor, Diane Gorvin.\n\nBrasenose College, Oxford, possesses one life-sized portrait, two smaller paintings and two life-sized representations of his hands. Another life-sized portrait can be seen at Speke Hall in Liverpool, a National Trust property. Although it he was said to be 9'3, some experts suggested that he was merely 7'9, believing his hands weren't measured accurately according to records. However his remains were supposed to be exhumed during the Victorian Era but were worked out to about 9'3.\n\nSpeke Hall is located near to the village of Hale and incorporates a woodland trail depicting his house, feet, hands and other items.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829269", "title": "Giovanni Vigliotto", "text": "Giovanni Vigliotto\n\nGiovanni Vigliotto (c. 1930–1991) was a name of a multiple bigamist and fraudster who married many women and abandoned them. \n\nVigliotto might have selected a more Mediterranean name to sound more exotic. \n\nVigliotto always said that he was living far away from where she was living and asked her to join him in their new home together. After the wedding, he convinced the women to sell their home, packed all their belongings in a moving truck and drove away, promising to call them later. Soon he was selling their belongings in some flea market. Some of the victims reported the incident but investigators could not find any leads.\n\nHowever, Vigliotto's 105th victim decided to find him herself. She had met Vigliotto in a flea market, so she decided to drive through all the flea markets she could find. Eventually she found Vigliotto in Florida, where he was selling her furniture. She informed the police and Vigliotto was arrested.\n\nThe trial against Vigliotto begun in Phoenix, Arizona on March 28, 1983. On April 11 he was sentenced to 28 years in prison for fraud and 6 for bigamy and fined $336,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829271", "title": "Jan Zwartendijk", "text": "Jan Zwartendijk\n\nJan Zwartendijk (29 July 1896 – 14 September 1976) was a Dutch businessman and diplomat. As director of the Philips plants in Lithuania and part-time acting consul of the Dutch government-in-exile, he supervised the writing of 2,345 visas for Curaçao to save Jews from the Holocaust during World War II. In 1997, Yad Vashem recognised him as Righteous Among the Nations.\n\nZwartendijk was born in Rotterdam. In 1939, he was named director of the Lithuanian branch of production of Philips.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union took over Lithuania in 1940, some Jewish Dutch residents in Lithuania approached Zwartendijk to get a visa to the Dutch Indies. With Zwartendijk's superior, Ambassador to Latvia L. P. J. de Decker's permission, he agreed to help them. The word spread and Jews who had fled from German-occupied Poland also sought his assistance.\n\nAmbassador De Dekker had been encouraged by a Jewish applicant to write a declaration on her visa stating that entering Curaçao and Dependencies in the West Indies did not require a visa, while omitting the part about the permission of the Governor of Curaçao being required. Told of this, Zwartendijk followed suit and in a few days, with the help of aides, produced over 2,000 visas for Jews to Curaçao.\n\nRefugees also approached Chiune Sugihara, a Japanese consul, who gave them a transit visa through Japan, against the disapproval of his government. This gave many refugees an opportunity to leave Lithuania for the Far East via the Trans-Siberian railway.\n\nIn the three weeks after 16 July 1940, Zwartendijk wrote 2,345 \"de facto\" visas to Curaçao and some of the Jews copied more. Many who helped only knew him as \"Mr Philips Radio\". When the Soviet Union annexed Lithuania, they closed down his Philips office and the embassies and consulates in Kaunas on 3 August 1940. He returned to the occupied Netherlands to work in the Philips headquarters in Eindhoven until his retirement. He did not talk about the matter. Zwartendijk died in Eindhoven in 1976.\n\nIn 1996, Boys Town Jerusalem, an orphanage and vocational training school in Jerusalem, honoured Zwartendijk at a tribute dinner in New York City and announced the establishment of the Jan Zwartendijk Award for Humanitarian Ethics and Values. The award has since been bestowed on other Holocaust-era saviors, including President Manuel Luis Quezon and the people of the Republic of the Philippines.\n\nIn 1997, Yad Vashem bestowed the title Righteous Among the Nations on Zwartendijk. On 10 September 2012, he was awarded with the of the Republic of Lithuania, a decoration to award the persons who, despite danger to their lives, attempted to save life. In June 2018, a monument to Zwartendijk (about 2,000 LED rods connected into a diameter spiral) was unveiled on Laisvės alėja, Kaunas by King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands and President Dalia Grybauskaitė.\n\nIn the novel \"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay\" by Michael Chabon, it is implied that the protagonist Josef Kavalier receives visas from Zwartendijk and his ally Chiune Sugihara. Though the novel does not mention these men by name, it describes a \"Dutch consul in Kovno who was madly issuing visas to Curaçao, in league with a Japanese official who would grant rights of transit\" (p. 65).\n\nZwartendijk is also portrayed in the Japanese biopic of Sugihara, Persona Non Grata.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829274", "title": "Patriarchate of the West Indies", "text": "Patriarchate of the West Indies\n\nThe Titular Patriarchate of the West Indies () is a Latin Rite titular patriarchate of the Roman Catholic Church. It is vacant since the death of its last holder in 1963.\n\nKing Ferdinand V of Castile asked Pope Leo X to establish a patriarchate for the ecclesiastical government of the American territories discovered by the Spaniards. The Holy See was not keen to accept the establishment of such an autonomous Spanish American church and, on 11 May 1524, Clement VII agreed to create it but only as honorific, without jurisdiction and without clergy. In addition, the Patriarch was banned from actually residing in the Americas.\nAntonio de Rojas, archbishop of Granada and bishop of Palencia, was the first patriarch. The following patriarchs were the bishop of Jaén Esteban Gabriel Merino (1530–1535) and the archbishop of Granada Fernando Niño de Guevara (not the homonymous cardinal) (1546–1552). After the Niño de Guevara's death, the office remained vacant because Philip II, against the Holy See policy, wished an actual jurisdictional Patriarchate. Finally, the king agreed in 1591 to propose the archbishop of Mexico City (but who was actually resident in Madrid as President of the Council of the Indies) Pedro Moya de Contreras. However, the new patriarch died before he could take the oath of his new office.\nIn 1602, Philip III abandoned the idea of a jurisdictional Patriarchate and used it as an honorific title for noble clergymen.\n\nIn 1705, Pope Clement XI named Patriarch Carlos de Borja Centellas the Military Vicar (General) of the Spanish Armies. Beginning in 1736, Pope Clement XII merged the office of Vicar General of the Spanish Armies with the Patriarchate of the West Indies \"pro tempore et ad septennium\", that is, \"temporarily for seven years\", and added to those titles the Royal Palace's Chaplaincy in 1741.\nClement XIII decreed the merger of the Patriarchate and the Military Vicariate in 1762.\n\nIn 1933, Patriarch Ramón Pérez Rodríguez was appointed Bishop of Cádiz and Ceuta. The previous year, the Republican Government had abolished the Military Vicariate. Thus, the Patriarchate remained vacant.\nDuring the Civil War, the Nationalists organized a religious military service and the Holy See appointed Cardinal Isidro Gomá, Archbishop of Toledo, as interim Pontifical Delegate. In 1940, Gomá died and the auxiliary bishop Gregorio Modrego was commissioned with the deceased cardinal's military duties. In 1942, Modrego was appointed bishop of Barcelona. During all that time, the Patriarchate remained vacant.\nIn 1946, the Bishop of Madrid Leopoldo Eijo y Garay was appointed Patriarch of the West Indies, but without the Military Ordinariate, which was established once more as a military archbishopric in 1950, this time without any association with the patriarch's title.\nSince Eijo's death, this titular patriarchate has remained vacant and is not considered likely to be filled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829276", "title": "Nepal national cricket team", "text": "Nepal national cricket team\n\nThe Nepal national cricket team () nicknamed The Rhinos and Gorkhalis, represents the country of Nepal in the international cricket and is governed by the Cricket Association of Nepal (CAN). They have been an Associate Member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) since 1996. Nepal were awarded Twenty20 International (T20I) status by the ICC in June 2014 until the 2015 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier. On 15 March 2018, Nepal gained One Day International (ODI) status for the first time (and regained Twenty20 International status), after winning the first playoff match in the 2018 Cricket World Cup Qualifier.\n\nNepal made their maiden appearance in the ICC global event at the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 in Bangladesh. They have been participating in international matches since 1996, including every ACC Trophy tournaments except 2015 ACC Twenty20 Cup in UAE, where they didn't participate. Nepal also participated in ICC World Cup Qualifier in 2001 2014 and 2018, ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier in 2012, 2013 and 2015, ICC Intercontinental Cup in 2004 and 2005, ACC Fast Track Countries Tournament in 2004, 2005 and 2006, ACC Twenty20 Cup in 2007, 2009, 2011 and 2013, Asian Games in 2010 and 2014 and ACC Premier League in 2014.\n\nUnlike some other smaller cricketing nations, where teams are largely made up of expatriates, Nepal's national team comprises indigenous players who have usually come through the ranks playing age-group cricket.\n\nOn 15 March 2018 Nepal claimed One Day International (ODI) status for the first time with a win over Papua New Guinea in the 2018 Cricket World Cup Qualifier 9th place play off encounter. In April 2018, the ICC decided to grant full Twenty20 International (T20I) status to all its members. Therefore, all Twenty20 matches played between Nepal and other ICC members after 1 January 2019 became full T20I matches.\n\nAccording to the 1877 book \"History of Nepal\", edited by Daniel Wright, \"\"Attempts have been made at various time by their tutors to get the young men to play at cricket and other games, but such amusements are thought degrading\"\". Over time, cricket came to be considered a gentleman's sport, and involvement was limited mainly to the ruling Rana family and other members of the Nepali elite.\n\nIn 1946, the Cricket Association of Nepal was formed to promote cricket amongst the aristocracy. After the introduction of democracy through the Revolution of 1951, cricket began to spread to the rest of the population. In 1961, in an effort to promote cricket to the whole of Nepal, the Cricket Association of Nepal became part of the National Sports Council. Nevertheless, the National games tended to be limited to Kathmandu until the 1980s.\n\nImprovements to communications and transport infrastructure in Nepal allowed the game to expand outside Kathmandu in the 1980s and Nepal became an Affiliate Member of the International Cricket Council in 1988. A major development programme was begun in the early 1990s, which saw regional and district tournaments being established and the increased promotion of cricket in schools.\n\nThe local population's interest in cricket increased quickly, and the demand to play was such that restrictions had to be placed on the number teams in several tournaments until more facilities could be built in the mid-1990s. Nepal became an Associate Member of the International Cricket Council in 1996, which was the year the national side played for the first time in the 1996 ACC Trophy in Kuala Lumpur. Nepal finished fourth out of six teams in their first round group, beating Brunei and Japan.\n\nBy 1998, the facilities in Nepal had improved sufficiently to allow them to host that year's ACC Trophy at grounds in Lalitpur and Kirtipur (at TU Cricket Ground) and Kathmandu. Nepal themselves were unsuccessful in the tournament, going without a win.\n\nCurrently, the country has one of the best fan followings among ICC Associate Members. It lost its governing body, the Cricket Association of Nepal (CAN) which was suspended by the International Cricket Council (ICC) due to unnecessary government interference in 2016, but it was reinstated in October 2019.\n\nOn 28 June 2014, the ICC awarded T20I status to Nepal, who took part and performed exceptionally well in the 2014 ICC World Twenty20. Nepal had already played three T20I matches before gaining the status, as the ICC had earlier announced that all matches at the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 would have T20I status.\nNepal lost the status in July 2015, after failing to qualify for the 2016 ICC World Twenty20.\n\nNepal played their first ever Twenty20 International series against Hong Kong in November 2014 in Sri Lanka. Initially the series was scheduled for three matches but only one match was played because of continuous rain and poor ground conditions. Nepal lost the match but Sompal Kami put in impressive performance by scoring 40 off 31 balls, coming in at No. 10. This is a world-record for the highest score made by a batsman at that position.\n\nNepal played their second Twenty20 International series against the Netherlands from 30 June to 3 July 2015. Nepal lost the 4 match series 3–1. Paras Khadka was named the player of the series.\n\nIn 2000, Nepal's youth development policy began to pay off when the Nepal national under-19 cricket team finished eighth in the Under-19 World Cup. The senior side had their best performance to date later in the year when they reached the semi-finals of the 2000 ACC Trophy before losing to Hong Kong at Sharjah. They competed in the ICC Trophy for the first time the following year. In the tournament in Ontario, they beat Germany and Gibraltar, but a loss to eventual runners-up Namibia prevented them from progressing past the first round.\n\nNepal were runners-up to the UAE in the 2002 ACC Trophy in Singapore and they hosted the ACC Emerging Nations Tournament in 2003, winning easily against Bhutan and the Maldives. They won so comprehensively that they were not invited back to the tournament the next time it was played in 2005. Raju Khadka became the first Nepalese cricketer to score an international century, when he slammed an unbeaten 105 off just 50 balls against Bhutan in the tournament.\n\nNepal played first-class cricket for the first time in 2004, playing in the ICC Intercontinental Cup against the UAE and Malaysia. They beat Malaysia, but drew with the UAE, failing to reach the semi-final stage. Nepal finished third in the 2004 ACC Fast Track Countries Tournament, which qualified them for the 2005 ICC Intercontinental Cup, and finished 5th in the 2004 ACC Trophy, which qualified them for the repêchage tournament of the 2005 ICC Trophy. They finished third in this tournament after beating Qatar in a play-off, meaning that they did not qualify for the 2005 ICC Trophy. Shakti Gauchan scored a century against Italy and stayed unbeaten on 106 off 103 balls in the tournament. They beat the UAE and drew with Hong Kong in the 2005 ICC Intercontinental Cup, but missed out on qualification for the semi-finals by half a point. They were runners-up to the UAE in the 2005 ACC Fast Track Countries Tournament.\n\nIn March 2006, Nepal played Namibia in Windhoek in a play-off match to decide the final team in the 2006 ICC Intercontinental Cup. Nepal needed to win outright to qualify for the main tournament, but the match was drawn after there was no play on the first day. Later in the year, they toured Pakistan, playing against the Pakistan Cricket Academy before playing in the 2006 ACC Trophy in Kuala Lumpur.\n\nIn the 2006 ACC Trophy, Nepal bowled Myanmar out for just 10 off 12.1 overs after Nepal won the toss and sent Myanmar in; no batsman scored more than one, the innings included five ducks, and extras top scored with five (three leg byes and two wides). Mehboob Alam and Binod Das picked up seven wickets and three wickets respectively. In reply, Nepal hit three off the first ball, followed by three wides that went for five, and then hit another three from the second legitimate delivery to win by ten wickets. Some critics called it the greatest mismatch in the history of international cricket and the score of 10 is the lowest in any level of men's international cricket. They finished fourth in the tournament after losing to Afghanistan in a play-off. They won the ACC Premier League in 2006.\n\nThey played in the 2007 ACC Twenty20 Cup in Kuwait, where they finished fourth in their first round group.\n\nIn May 2008, Nepal traveled to Jersey to play in 2008 ICC World Cricket League Division Five of the World Cricket League. Mehboob Alam set the world record by taking all ten wickets in the match against Mozambique. He got his name in the Guinness World Records for becoming the first bowler to take all 10 wickets in an ICC international cricket match with limited overs. Nepal topped Group A after the group qualifying matches but lost to Afghanistan in the semi-final and finished third overall after defeating the USA in the playoff for third place. With only the top two from this tournament qualifying for 2008 ICC World Cricket League Division Four in Tanzania later in the year, Nepal missed out on the chance to take their 2011 World Cup dream any further. Later, Nepal appeared in the 2008 ACC Trophy Elite and finished fourth after losing to the UAE in the semi-final and to Afghanistan in the playoff for third place.\n\nNepal finished fifth in the 2009 ACC Twenty20 Cup after beating Singapore by 9 wickets in the playoff for fifth place. In a group match against Kuwait, Nepal needed 7 runs off the last ball to win. Binod Bhandari, making his debut for the national team, hit a last-ball six to tie the match. Eventually Nepal won the match in bowl-out.\n\nNepal won their first major tournament, beating USA in the final of 2010 ICC World Cricket League Division Five held at Kathmandu in February 2010. Sharad Vesawkar scored a century and stayed unbeaten on 105 off 134 balls against Fiji in the tournament. Nepal played very well in 2010 ACC Trophy Elite, winning all the matches in group stage and beating Malaysia in the semi-final by 8 runs but lost the final against an ODI team Afghanistan by 95 runs and finished runners-up. Nepal came third in 2010 ICC World Cricket League Division Four, thus remaining in Division Four for 2012 ICC World Cricket League Division Four. In November, Nepal appeared in 2010 Asian Games and lost against Sri Lanka in the quarter-final. It was the first match Nepal had played against a Full Member nation.\n\nIn December 2011, Nepal hosted the 2011 ACC Twenty20 Cup and finished fourth, thereby qualifying for the 2012 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier.\n\nNepal finished seventh in the 2012 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier after defeating Kenya and Papua New Guinea in play-offs. Shakti Gauchan took the first international hat-trick for Nepal against Denmark in the tournament. In September 2012, Nepal appeared in 2012 ICC World Cricket League Division Four, where Subash Khakurel and Anil Mandal both scored century. Subash Khakurel scored 115 off 142 balls against United States and Anil Mandal scored 113 off 134 balls against Denmark. In a match against Malaysia, Shakti Gauchan set up Nepal's convincing victory with a new record. The left-arm orthodox spinner's figures of 10–8–2–3 is the best economical bowling spell ever in limited over encounters. Nepal won all the six matches of the tournament and progressed to 2013 ICC World Cricket League Division Three. Nepalese players won man of the match awards in all the six matches Nepal played and Basanta Regmi won the player of the tournament award after taking a total of 21 wickets in the tournament. In October, Nepal competed in 2012 ACC Trophy Elite and had to share the trophy with the UAE after a thrilling tied final in Sharjah Cricket Stadium, UAE on 12 October 2012. UAE posted 241, a target that looked in Nepal's sight after their 94-run opening stand. However, they lost wickets consistently, and eventually needed 12 off the last over with just two wickets in hand. Shakti Gauchan smacked Shadeep Silva's left-arm for a six, but could manage only one run off the last ball, hence ending a splendid final match in a tie. Skipper Paras Khadka scored an unbeaten 106 off just 77 balls against Kuwait, his maiden century for Nepal, in the tournament.\n\nNepal competed in 2013 ACC Twenty20 Cup held at home grounds in Kirtipur and Lalitpur. Nepal easily marched towards the final of the tournament with high class performance from their captain, Paras Khadka, and the team thrashed the UAE by 6 wickets. Nepal had earlier qualified for 2013 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier, reaching the semi-final of the tournament. Nepal had to be satisfied with runners-up status after losing to an ODI team Afghanistan by 7 wickets. The Nepalese team was supported by a huge fan following throughout this tournament with an average turnout of 15,000 – 20,000 (about 25,000 in the semi-final and final) during their matches while hundreds of thousands watched live on television – undoubtedly the largest public support outside the Test-playing nations. Nepal won the 2013 ICC World Cricket League Division Three held in Bermuda and qualified for the 2014 World Cup Qualifier. Nepal also played in 2013 ACC Emerging Teams Cup, where under-23 age level teams of the four Test nations – Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka took part along with the UAE, Afghanistan and the hosts Singapore. Nepal finished third in 2013 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier held in UAE and qualified for the 2014 ICC World Twenty20, defeating Hong Kong off the last ball of the thrilling quarter-final.\n\nNepal missed out on qualification for the 2015 World Cup, finishing ninth in the 2014 World Cup Qualifier in New Zealand in January. Nepal were the best of the three associate teams on display in Group A of the 2014 ICC World Twenty20. They comprehensively beat Hong Kong, held their own with the bat against Bangladesh and pulled off a strong win against Afghanistan, their first since 2004 in any format against their old rivals. Nepal's bowlers did not bowl a single wide or no ball throughout the tournament. Nepal were also the only team to not concede 140 in an innings in the tournament. Nepal finished third in the 2014 ACC Premier League, where they beat ODI teams UAE and Hong Kong, and qualified for the 2014 ACC Championship. In September, Nepal participated in the 2014 Asian Games but failed to qualify beyond quarter-finals. Nepal won the 2014 ICC World Cricket League Division Three held in Malaysia and qualified for the 2015 ICC World Cricket League Division Two. Gyanendra Malla scored his maiden century, 114 off 125 balls, against Singapore in the tournament. In November, Nepal toured Sri Lanka, as Sri Lanka Cricket approved a request from the Asian Cricket Council to support the region's Non-Test playing countries, where they played two three-day matches against Sri Lanka Cricket Combined XI. and a Twenty20 International series against Hong Kong.\n\nNepal finished fourth in the 2015 ICC World Cricket League Division Two in Namibia and qualified for the 2015–17 ICC World Cricket League Championship. But Nepal failed to secure promotion to Division One and qualification to 2015–17 ICC Intercontinental Cup after finishing third in the round-robin stage. Basanta Regmi became the first bowler to take 100 wickets in the World Cricket League. He achieved this feat after taking 2 wickets against Netherlands in the tournament. On 11 April 2015, Nepal hosted a 63-over (31.3 overs per side) tribute match in honour of the Australian cricketer Phillip Hughes who was batting on 63 when he was struck by a bouncer. The match was played at the TU Cricket Ground, Kirtipur between Team Red, combined of players of Nepal and Australia and Team Blue, composed of all Nepalese players. In June, Nepal toured Netherlands to play a Twenty20 International series against the home team. Then Nepal appeared in the 2015 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier held in Ireland and Scotland, where the team finished seventh in the Group A, thus failing to qualify for the second consecutive ICC World Twenty20.\n\nNepal finished second in 2018 ICC World Cricket League Division Two to earn a place in the 2018 Cricket World Cup Qualifier. On 15 March, Nepal claimed One Day International (ODI) status for the first time with their win over Papua New Guinea in the 2018 Cricket World Cup Qualifier 9th place play off encounter. Due to gaining ODI status, Nepal also regained Twenty20 International (T20I) status. After gaining ODI status, Nepal's captain at the Cricket World Cup Qualifier, Paras Khadka, said that they want to gain Test status, which he believes will take between eight and ten years to achieve.\n\nNepal played their first 3 match ODI series against UAE and won 2–1, their first ODI series win. Paras Khadka became the first batsman to score an ODI century for Nepal. Kushal Malla (Nep) made his ODI debut, and at the age of 15 years and 340 days, he became the youngest male cricketer to score an international half-century while playing against USA on Feb 8, 2020. Sundeep Jora became the world's youngest player to score a half century in T20I format, at the age of 17 years and 103 days. In October 2019, the Cricket Association of Nepal, which was suspended in 2016, was readmitted as an ICC member.\n\nTribhuwan University Cricket Ground in Kirtipur and Pokhara Rangashala in Pokhara of Nepal are the only venues who've hosted an international match so far. While, Lord Buddha International Cricket Stadium being built by Dhurmus Suntali Foundation. Mulpani Cricket Stadium, Kathmandu and Fapla Cricket Ground, Dhangadhi have also been used for some domestic matches. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInternational Match Summary – Nepal\n\n\nMost ODI runs for Nepal\n\nMost ODI wickets for Nepal\n\nODI record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to ODI #4245. Last updated 12 February 2020.\"\n\nMost T20I runs for Nepal\n\nMost T20I wickets for Nepal\nT20I record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to T20I #1073. Last updated 4 March 2020.\"\n\nThe following list contains players contracted by Cricket Association of Nepal .\nKey\n\n\n Jagat Tamata (Interim)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829279", "title": "Vogalonga", "text": "Vogalonga\n\nVogalonga is a rowing regatta in the Italian city of Venice.\n\nOn November 11, 1974 a group of Venetians, both amateur and professional rowers, had a race in the island of Burano. They came up with an idea of non-competitive \"race\" in which any kind of rowing boat could participate, in the spirit of historical festivities. The first Vogalonga began the next year with the message to protest against the growing use of powerboats in Venice and the swell damage they do to the historic city.\n\nParticipants gather in St Marks Basin in front of the ducal palace. They sing hymns to San Marco (Saint Mark) and begin the \"race\". The racecourse is scenic route 30 kilometers long along the various Venetian canals and historical buildings.\n\nEach participant receives a commemorative medal and a certificate of participation. They may also receive a prize, chosen randomly, which are often trophy cups and plaques, decorative oars and other mementos local associations, newspapers and the organizing committee have donated.\n\nThe numbers of participants has swelled to thousands over the years from all over the world. Some locals have founded new rowing clubs and build their own boats based on real, historical watercraft. Some participants have brought their own kind of boats like the Chinese dragon boats. Some have also chosen to swim through the route instead of rowing.\n\nThe 2009 Vogalonga event became a small scale disaster, with strong winds overturning several rowboats and 50 people had to be pulled from the water, although police and fire service motorboats were quick on the scene and nobody was seriously injured.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829282", "title": "Feliks Topolski", "text": "Feliks Topolski\n\nFeliks Topolski RA (14 August 1907 – 24 August 1989) was a Polish-born expressionist painter and draughtsman working primarily in the United Kingdom.\n\nFeliks Topolski was born on 14 August 1907 in Warsaw, Poland. He studied in the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw, and trained as an artillery officer.\n\nLater he studied and worked in Italy and France, and eventually he moved to Britain in 1935 after being commissioned to record King George V's silver jubilee. He opened a studio near Waterloo station, which later became an exhibition and then a café-bar featuring his art.\n\nHe married twice, first to Marian Everall and then Caryl J. Stanley.\n\nIn 1939 the George Bernard Shaw plays \"In Good King Charles's Golden Days\" and \"Geneva\" were published with illustrations by Topolski, bringing his work to a wide audience in the UK.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Topolski became an official war artist and painted scenes of the Battle of Britain and other battlefields. In 1941, Topolski travelled to Russia alongside the men of 151 Wing RAF on board the RMS \"Llanstephan Castle\", which was sailing to the port Archangelsk as part of Force Benedict, a mission to provide air support in defence of the port of Murmansk. Topolski was travelling as an accredited War Artist for both Polish and British governments. He was also under contract to \"Picture Post\" magazine, which published many of his drawings after his return.\n\nAfter the war he made a celebrated painting about the first meeting of the United Nations. In 1947 he gained British citizenship.\n\nTopolski's experiences were initially captured in pencil and ink drawings. These were the first stage of his prolific \"Chronicles\", which appeared fortnightly from 1953 to 1979, interrupted only to accommodate his exploratory investigations across the globe. The \"Chronicles\" communicated his art and observations to a wider audience. They were independently published, without advertisements or subsidies. Since his death in 1989 Topolski's \"Chronicles\" have retained respect as a pictorial and political record spanning nearly 30 years of world history. The \"Chronicles\" contain 3,000 drawings, and were exhibited in New York City, Moscow, Cologne, Hamburg, Hawaii, Tel Aviv and serialised in the United States, Poland, Italy, Denmark and Switzerland. Joyce Cary wrote, it is \"the most brilliant record we have of the contemporary scene as seized by a contemporary mind.\"\n\nIn 1959, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, commissioned Topolski to create a mural depicting the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. The mural contains 14 friezes divided into two narratives; one narrative; entitled \"In The Streets\" shows various processions to Westminster Abbey, while the second, entitled \"In The Abbey\", depicts the procession out of the Abbey after the coronation.\n\nTopolski painted portraits of contemporaries, including the authors H. G. Wells, Graham Greene, John Mortimer and Evelyn Waugh, and politicians Harold Macmillan and Aneurin Bevan, He also painted murals, contributed to BBC programmes, such as the caricatures of guests used in \"Face to Face\" and designed theatrical sets. Between 1975 and his death he worked on a 600 ft mural in a studio in railway arches near London's South Bank, depicting events and people of the 20th century. It opened to the public as a free permanent exhibition called \"Topolski Century\". In 2014 it was re-opened as a café-bar called \"Topolski\", featuring his art.\n\nIn 1989 he was elected a senior Royal Academician as a draughtsman.\n\nFeliks Topolski died in London on 24 August 1989 at the age of 82. He is buried in Highgate Cemetery, north London.\n\nHe had a daughter, Theresa, and a son, Daniel, a rower who captained and coached Oxford in the Boat Race.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829283", "title": "Yuri Kochiyama", "text": "Yuri Kochiyama\n\nMary Yuriko Nakahara was born on May 19, 1921, in San Pedro, California, to Japanese immigrants Seiichi Nakahara, a fish merchant entrepreneur, and Tsuyako (Sawaguchi) Nakahara, a college-educated homemaker and piano teacher. She had a twin brother, Peter, and an older brother, Arthur. Her family was relatively affluent and she grew up in a predominantly white neighborhood. In her youth she attended a Presbyterian church and taught Sunday school. Kochiyama attended San Pedro High School, where she served as the first female student body officer, wrote for the school newspaper, and played on the tennis team. She graduated from high school in 1939. She attended Compton Junior College, where she studied English, journalism, and art. Kochiyama graduated from Compton in 1941.\n\nHer life changed on December 7, 1941, when the Japanese Empire bombed Pearl Harbor. Soon after she returned home from church, FBI agents arrested her father as a potential threat to national security. He was in poor health, having just come out of hospital. The FBI were suspicious of photographs of Japanese naval ships found in the family home and his friendship with prominent Japanese, including Ambassador Kichisaburō Nomura. Nakahara's six-week detention aggravated his health problems, and by the time he was released on January 20, 1942, he had become too sick to speak. Her father died the day after his release.\n\nSoon after the death of her father, United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued Executive Order 9066, which forced out approximately 120,000 people of Japanese ancestry from the Pacific coast and interned them at various camps across the United States. Yuri, her mother, and her brother were \"evacuated\" to a converted horse stable at the Santa Anita Assembly Center for several months and then moved again to the War Relocation Authority internment camp at Jerome, Arkansas, where they lived for the next three years. While interned, she met her future husband, Bill Kochiyama, a Nisei soldier fighting for the United States. The couple married in 1946. They moved to New York in 1948, had six children, and lived in public housing for the next twelve years. In 1960, Kochiyama and her husband moved their family to Harlem and joined the Harlem Parents Committee and the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE).\n\nKochiyama met the African-American activist Malcolm X, at the time a prominent member of the Nation of Islam, in October 1963 during a protest against the arrest of about 600 minority construction workers in Brooklyn, who had been protesting for jobs. Kochiyama joined his pan-Africanist Organization of Afro-American Unity. She was present at his assassination on February 21, 1965, at the Audubon Ballroom in Washington Heights, New York City, and held him in her arms as he lay dying—a famous photo appeared in \"Life\" capturing that moment. Kochiyama also had close relationships with many other revolutionary nationalist leaders including Robert F. Williams who gave Kochiyama her first copy of \"Chairman Mao's Little Red Book\".\nKochiyama became a mentor to the radical end of the Asian American movement that grew during and after the Vietnam War protests. As organizers of East Coast Japanese Americans for Redress and Reparations, Yuri and Bill advocated for reparations and a government apology for the incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II, and spearheaded the campaign to bring the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians to New York. Additionally, Kochiyama founded the Day of Remembrance Committee in New York City to commemorate the day President Franklin D. Roosevelt authorized Executive Order 9066, which caused the forced removal and incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. President Ronald Reagan signed the Civil Liberties Act in 1988 which, among other things, awarded $20,000 to each Japanese American internment survivor. Kochiyama used this victory to advocate for reparations for African Americans. In later years, Kochiyama was active in opposing profiling of and bigotry against Muslims, Middle Easterners, and South Asians in the United States, a phenomenon she viewed as similar to the experience of Japanese Americans during World War II.\n\nIn 1971, Kochiyama secretly converted to Sunni Islam, and began travelling to the Sankore mosque in Greenhaven prison, Stormville, New York, to study and worship with Imam Rasul Suleiman.\n\nKochiyama also taught English to immigrant students and volunteered at soup kitchens and homeless shelters in New York City. In Debbie Allen's television series \"Cool Women\" (2001), Kochiyama stated, \"The legacy I would like to leave is that people try to build bridges and not walls.\"\n\nKochiyama has been described as a woman of \"complicated political beliefs\" and at times \"contradictory views\" who managed to combine support for both racial integration and separation. Dylan Matthews has described some of her work as \"clearly, deeply admirable\", but cautioned that she sometimes admired \"truly loathsome figures, because she thought they were effective at combating American empire\", such as Mao Zedong and Ho Chi Minh.\n\nKochiyama supported the Peruvian Maoist guerrilla group Shining Path, which has been widely condemned for its violent terrorism and brutality against civilians. She joined a delegation to Peru, organized by the Maoist Revolutionary Communist Party, to gather support for Abimael Guzmán, the imprisoned leader of the Shining Path. Kochiyama stated \"[t]he more I read, the more I came to completely support the revolution in Peru.\"\n\nKochiyama in the mid-1960s joined the Revolutionary Action Movement, a black nationalist organization dedicated to urban guerrilla warfare which was one of the first organizations in the black liberation movement to attempt to construct an ideology based on a synthesis of the thought of Malcolm X, Marx, Lenin, and Mao Zedong. In 1968 she was one of the few non-blacks invited to join the Republic of New Africa which advocated the establishment of a separate black nation in the Southern United States. Kochiyama joined, and subsequently sided with, an RNA faction which felt that the need to build a separate black nation was even more important than the struggle for civil rights in Northern cities. After Kochiyama became a \"citizen\" of the RNA she decided to drop her \"slave name\" Mary and used only the name Yuri.\n\nKochiyama founded and sustained the David Wong Support Committee, which after a fourteen-year battle succeeded in exonerating Wong of the murder of a fellow inmate. Kochiyama wrote letters to, fundraised for, and visited Wong in prison.\n\nKochiyama supported people she saw as political prisoners and victims of FBI oppression. She worked on behalf of Mumia Abu-Jamal, an African-American activist sentenced to death in 1982 for the 1981 murder of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner. She was a friend and supporter of Assata Shakur, an African-American activist and member of the former Black Liberation Army (BLA), who had been convicted of several crimes including the first-degree murder of a New Jersey State Trooper before escaping from U.S. prison and receiving asylum in Cuba. She stated that to her Shakur was like \"the female Malcolm [X] or the female Mumia [Abu-Jamal].\" She also supported Marilyn Buck, a feminist poet, who was imprisoned for her participation in Shakur's 1979 prison escape, the 1981 Brink's robbery and the 1983 U.S. Senate bombing.\n\nIn 1977, Kochiyama joined a group of Puerto Ricans who took over the Statue of Liberty to draw attention to the movement for Puerto Rican independence. Kochiyama and other activists demanded the release of four Puerto Rican nationalists convicted of attempted murder—Lolita Lebrón, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Andres Figueroa Cordero, and Irving Flores Rodríguez—who in 1954 had opened fire in the House of Representatives, injuring five congressmen. The nationalists occupied the statue for nine hours before giving up peacefully when the police moved in. President Carter pardoned the attempted assassins in 1979.\n\nKochiyama also supported Yū Kikumura, an alleged member of the Japanese Red Army, who was arrested in Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam in 1986 when he was found carrying a bomb in his luggage and subsequently convicted of planning to bomb a US Navy recruitment office in the Veteran's Administration building. Kochiyama felt Kikumura's 30-year sentence was motivated by his political activism.\n\nIn response to the United States' actions following the 2001 September 11 attacks, Kochiyama stated that \"the goal of the war [on terror] is more than just getting oil and fuel. The United States is intent on taking over the world\" and \"it's important we all understand that the main terrorist and the main enemy of the world's people is the U.S. government.\"\n\nInterviewed in 2003, she said, \"I consider Osama bin Laden as one of the people that I admire. To me, he is in the category of Malcolm X, Che Guevara, Patrice Lumumba, Fidel Castro ... I thank Islam for bin Laden. America's greed, aggressiveness, and self-righteous arrogance must be stopped. War and weaponry must be abolished.\"\n\nOn May 19, 2016, which would have been her 95th birthday, she was featured on the U.S. Google Doodle, sparking controversy over her past statements expressing support for the Peruvian Shining Path and admiration for figures such as Osama bin Laden.\n\nIn 2005, Kochiyama was one of 1,000 women collectively nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize through the \"1,000 Women for the Nobel Peace Prize 2005\" project.\n\nIn 2010, she received an honorary doctorate from California State University, East Bay.\n\nOn June 6, 2014, the White House honored Kochiyama on its website for dedicating \"her life to the pursuit of social justice, not only for the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community, but all communities of color.\"\n\nIn 2014, the Smithsonian Asian Pacific American Center curated \"Folk Hero: Remembering Yuri Kochiyama Through Grassroots Art\", a digital exhibition it characterized as a \"tribute\".\n\nOn May 19, 2016, the U.S. Google Doodle honored the 95th anniversary of Kochiyama's birthday, prompting both praise and criticism of Kochiyama and Google, with Senator Pat Toomey (R-Penn.) calling for a public apology from the company.\n\nMarch 2019 in conjunction with Women's History Month and International Women's Rights a public art project was commissioned in downtown Grand Rapids, Michigan. It includes Kochiyama from the 2015 children's book, \"Rad American Women A - Z\" (by Kate Schatz, Illustrated by Miriam Klein Stahl).\n\nKochiyama died on June 1, 2014, at the age of 93 in Oakland, California \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829284", "title": "Highways in Nunavut", "text": "Highways in Nunavut\n\nAn estimated total of of roads and highways are spread across Nunavut. Over the next decade the number of roads is expected to increase due to the increase of population. Nunavut is the only province/territory that is not connected by roads to other parts of Canada.\n\nMost vehicles in the territory are moved from community to community and in and out of the territory by large barges that move during the summer shipping season. Less commonly, vehicles may be flown in on a cargo plane. Car companies will usually fly vehicles in to test them in Arctic conditions.\n\nHighways in Nunavut, the few that exist, are not yet numbered. Street signs are in English, Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun depending on locations.\nCompared to the rest of Canada, maintaining a vehicle in Nunavut is expensive. Rough roads and harsh weather result in expensive upkeep for vehicles, and despite being subsidised by the government, gas prices are among the highest in Canada. Parts can take an extremely long time to ship in and are very expensive. Mechanics also charge a premium, since very few do business in the territory. Due to the lack of a cohesive road network, aircraft are still the preferred way to travel, especially between communities, along with ATVs through most of the year, snowmobiles in winter, and boats during the summer months. Travel by dog sled has largely disappeared, although recreational dog-sledding is still common.\n\nAbout 4,000 vehicles are registered in the territory. Many makes and models of vehicles can be found in the territory, but the most common are heavy-duty four-wheel-drive vehicles such as sport utility, jeeps and full-size vans. A wide range of vehicles can be found in Iqaluit, where the government tends to do most of its business and the road system consists of paved and chip-sealed portions, although it too is primarily dirt.\n\nDespite Nunavut's isolation from the rest of Canada's road network, provincial licence plates can be found from Newfoundland and Labrador, Quebec, and Northwest Territories, as well as government plates from the Department of National Defence; vehicles of all provincial plates can sometimes be found in the territory. Nunavut, at one time was like the Northwest Territories, in that it was one of the few jurisdictions in the world where non-rectangular licence plates could be found, as these two territories issued plates in the shape of a polar bear. Nunavut no longer issues these.\n\nVehicles can display their old provincial plates for 90 days before they must be registered in the territory.\n\nA road link to Manitoba was once planned. This road, if ever built, will cost an estimated $1.2 billion to build and another $3 million a year to maintain. This road is expected to run from Sundance, Manitoba to Rankin Inlet, Nunavut. However, a study showed that the cost of building the road would likely far outweigh any potential economic benefits. A proposal was also in place for a highway to Rankin Inlet, Nunavut from Gillam, Manitoba with a connection to Churchill, Manitoba, a route that was chosen over two other alternatives from Thompson and Lynn Lake.\n\nA road was briefly considered in 2004 for construction between Iqaluit and Kimmirut (formerly known as Lake Harbour), but it would be four times longer than the direct air-distance between the communities, and the idea was dropped.\n\nIn 2016, the federal government approved $64 million in funding to build a deepsea port in Iqaluit, expected to be completed in 2020. It would be used to cut costs for goods that would otherwise have to be flown in, and was also envisioned to allow a vehicle ferry service to Happy Valley-Goose Bay in Newfoundland and Labrador. In 2019, it was announced that the port would not include the facilities necessary for the ferry service, as they would have been too expensive.\n\nThis private winter road was once a way for trucks to drive to Nunavut from Yellowknife. The private winter road services a number of mines and worker lodgings in the region. The entire road is 605 km (376 mi) and is the world's longest heavy haul ice road. It is open between February and March each year. Since the closure of Lupin Gold Mine and Jericho Diamond Mine, only the first 400 km (250 miles) of the Tibbitt to Contwoyto Winter Road have been constructed each winter. The road does not cross into Nunavut any longer. The public may drive on the first few kilometers of the winter road, but must turn around at a security checkpoint.\n\nThis 21 km (13 mi) stretch of Highway connects the town of Arctic Bay to the former mining town of Nanisivik. The road also gained world fame for a number of years when it was used for the Midnight Sun Marathon run but has become less important when the mine shut down in 2002. The mine was later contaminated with lead. However, it should benefit from the Canadian Forces planned $100 million expansion of the Nanisivik deep water port and airport announced on August 10, 2007, by Prime Minister Stephen Harper.\n\nThis is a 20 km (12 mi) all-weather highway that provides the link from Eureka Weather Station to CFB Eureka and the Eureka Airport.\n\nThe main road in Iqaluit, this road provides access from the Airport to the City Centre and to the Nunavut Legislature Building.\n\nThis road provides access from Iqaluit to the original community of Apex (Niaqunguut). The road was built by the United States Army Corps of Engineers in order to keep their soldiers busy while they waited for the sea-ice to open up to let them go home in the summer of 1956.\n\nThe bridge across Kujesse (Apex Creek) was a gift from the Government of Ontario's Department of Highways the following year.\n\nThe inaugural trip down Apex Hill led to a truckload of soldiers in the ditch. The brakes on the army vehicle had not been tested for several years in the \"flats\" of what was then Frobisher Bay, and they did not hold when tested on the new road. Only pride was injured when the truck hit the ditch on its first trip.\n\nPrior to the road being built, schoolchildren living near the base at \"Ikaluit\" walked to Federal Day School in Apex over the sea ice or stayed with relatives in Apex, as the base in Frobisher Bay was \"off limits\" to Inuit.\n\nToday, this road has been developed along much of its 5 km (3 mi) length. It is now one of the busiest roads in the territory, a typical rush hour sustains 500 cars an hour, although rush hour itself is locally called the \"rush minute\".\n\nThis roughly 6 km (4 mi) stretch of all-weather road is the most northern stretch of road in the world. This road provides access from CFB Alert to the Alert Airport.\n\nRuns from Cambridge Bay eastward 17 km (11 mi) to Ovayok Territorial Park (Mount Pelly). Another road runs west approximately 14 km (9 mi) from the hamlet.\n\nConnects the hamlet of Coral Harbour on Southampton Island with its airport, 11 km (7 mi) away.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829285", "title": "John Gilling", "text": "John Gilling\n\nJohn Gilling (29 May 1912 – 22 November 1984) was an English film director and screenwriter, born in London. He was chiefly known for his horror movies, especially those he made for Hammer Films, for whom he directed \"The Shadow of the Cat\" (1961), \"The Plague of the Zombies\" (1966), \"The Reptile\" (1966) and \"The Mummy's Shroud\" (1967), among others.\n\nGilling left a job in England with an oil company at the age of 17 and went to Hollywood, where he worked at a number of jobs, some of them in the film industry, before returning to England in 1933. He entered the British film industry immediately as an editor and assistant director, starting with \"Father O'Flynn\". He served in the Royal Navy in the Second World War. \n\nAfter the war Gilling began screenwriting with \"Black Memory\" in 1947, and made his directing debut with \"Escape from Broadmoor\" (1948). Gilling also produced and directed \"Old Mother Riley Meets the Vampire\" (a.k.a. \"Vampire Over London\" / \"My Son the Vampire\") in 1952. Gilling continued through the 1950s making several entertaining 'quota quickies' such as \"The Voice of Merrill\" for Monty Berman's Tempean Films and entered television directing in several British made series that received international distribution such as \"Douglas Fairbanks Jr Presents\" and \"Gideon's Way\", as well as Monty Berman's \"The Saint\", \"The Champions\", and \"Department S\". Of his films for Tempean the film historians Steve Chibnall and Brian McFarlane say: \"Gilling shows in all of them a capacity for establishing the premises of his plots economically and evocatively, for developing them with clarity and speed, for giving competent players a chance to invest their characters with a feeling and detail that go beyond stereotype, and for making deft use of limited locations and settings.\"\n\nStarting in 1956 Gilling directed and wrote several films for Albert R. Broccoli and Irving Allen's Warwick Films beginning with \"Odongo\". Perhaps his very best film as a director is \"The Flesh and the Fiends\" (1959), the story of Dr. Robert Knox and the West Port murders, which starred Peter Cushing and Donald Pleasence. For his own production company John Gilling Enterprises he made \"Fury at Smugglers' Bay\" in 1961.\n\nGilling first worked for Hammer Films in 1961, directing \"The Shadow of the Cat\". He achieved his greatest fame with several of their horror films such as \"The Plague of the Zombies\" and \"The Reptile\", as well as making the non-horror Hammer films \"The Pirates of Blood River\" (1962) and \"The Scarlet Blade\" (1963). Gilling also directed the crime thriller \"The Challenge\" starring Anthony Quayle and Jayne Mansfield, the science fiction film \"The Night Caller\" (1965) starring John Saxon and Maurice Denham, and the second Charles Vine spy movie \"Where the Bullets Fly\" (1966).\n\nFollowing a final round of work in British television Gilling relocated to Spain, where he came out of retirement in 1975 to make \"Cross of the Devil\", his final film.\n"}
{"id": "1829286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829286", "title": "Percent-encoding", "text": "Percent-encoding\n\nPercent-encoding, also known as URL encoding, is a mechanism for encoding information in a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) under certain circumstances. Although it is known as \"URL encoding,\" it is, in fact, used more generally within the main Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) set, which includes both Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and Uniform Resource Name (URN). As such, it is also used in the preparation of data of the codice_1 media type, as is often used in the submission of HTML form data in HTTP requests.\n\nThe characters allowed in a URI are either \"reserved\" or \"unreserved\" (or a percent character as part of a percent-encoding). \"Reserved\" characters are those characters that sometimes have special meaning. For example, forward slash characters are used to separate different parts of a URL (or more generally, a URI). \"Unreserved\" characters have no such meanings. Using percent-encoding, reserved characters are represented using special character sequences. The sets of reserved and unreserved characters and the circumstances under which certain reserved characters have special meaning have changed slightly with each revision of specifications that govern URIs and URI schemes.\n\nOther characters in a URI must be percent encoded.\n\nWhen a character from the reserved set (a \"reserved character\") has special meaning (a \"reserved purpose\") in a certain context, and a URI scheme says that it is necessary to use that character for some \"other\" purpose, then the character must be \"percent-encoded\". Percent-encoding a reserved character involves converting the character to its corresponding byte value in ASCII and then representing that value as a pair of hexadecimal digits. The digits, preceded by a percent sign (codice_2) which is used as an escape character, are then used in the URI in place of the reserved character.\n\nThe reserved character codice_3, for example, if used in the \"path\" component of a URI, has the special meaning of being a delimiter \"between\" path segments. If, according to a given URI scheme, codice_3 needs to be \"in\" a path segment, then the three characters codice_5 or codice_6 must be used in the segment instead of a raw codice_3.\n\nReserved characters that have no reserved purpose in a particular context may also be percent-encoded but are not semantically different from those that are not.\n\nIn the \"query\" component of a URI (the part after a ? character), for example, codice_3 is still considered a reserved character but it normally has no reserved purpose, unless a particular URI scheme says otherwise. The character does not need to be percent-encoded when it has reserved purpose.\n\nURIs that differ only by whether a reserved character is percent-encoded or appears literally are normally considered not equivalent (denoting the same resource) unless it can be determined that the reserved characters in question have no reserved purpose. This determination is dependent upon the rules established for reserved characters by individual URI schemes.\n\nCharacters from the unreserved set never need to be percent-encoded.\n\nURIs that differ only by whether an unreserved character is percent-encoded or appears literally are equivalent by definition, but URI processors, in practice, may not always recognize this equivalence. For example, URI consumers \"should not\" treat codice_9 differently from codice_10 or codice_11 differently from codice_12, but some do. For maximum interoperability, URI producers are discouraged from percent-encoding unreserved characters.\n\nBecause the percent character ( codice_2 ) serves as the indicator for percent-encoded octets, it must be percent-encoded as codice_14 for that octet to be used as data within a URI.\n\nMost URI schemes involve the representation of arbitrary data, such as an IP address or file system path, as components of a URI. URI scheme specifications should, but often don't, provide an explicit mapping between URI characters and all possible data values being represented by those characters.\n\nSince the publication of RFC 1738 in 1994 it has been specified that schemes that provide for the representation of binary data in a URI must divide the data into 8-bit bytes and percent-encode each byte in the same manner as above. Byte value 0x0F, for example, should be represented by codice_15, but byte value 0x41 can be represented by codice_10, or codice_9. The use of unencoded characters for alphanumeric and other unreserved characters is typically preferred as it results in shorter URLs.\n\nThe procedure for percent-encoding binary data has often been extrapolated, sometimes inappropriately or without being fully specified, to apply to character-based data. In the World Wide Web's formative years, when dealing with data characters in the ASCII repertoire and using their corresponding bytes in ASCII as the basis for determining percent-encoded sequences, this practice was relatively harmless; it was just assumed that characters and bytes mapped one-to-one and were interchangeable. The need to represent characters outside the ASCII range, however, grew quickly and URI schemes and protocols often failed to provide standard rules for preparing character data for inclusion in a URI. Web applications consequently began using different multi-byte, stateful, and other non-ASCII-compatible encodings as the basis for percent-encoding, leading to ambiguities and difficulty interpreting URIs reliably.\n\nFor example, many URI schemes and protocols based on RFCs 1738 and 2396 presume that the data characters will be converted to bytes according to some unspecified character encoding before being represented in a URI by unreserved characters or percent-encoded bytes. If the scheme does not allow the URI to provide a hint as to what encoding was used, or if the encoding conflicts with the use of ASCII to percent-encode reserved and unreserved characters, then the URI cannot be reliably interpreted. Some schemes fail to account for encoding at all, and instead just suggest that data characters map directly to URI characters, which leaves it up to implementations to decide whether and how to percent-encode data characters that are in neither the reserved nor unreserved sets.\n\n]]</code> || codice_12 || codice_19 || codice_20 \n\nArbitrary character data is sometimes percent-encoded and used in non-URI situations, such as for password obfuscation programs, or other system-specific translation protocols.\n\nThe generic URI syntax recommends that new URI schemes that provide for the representation of character data in a URI should, in effect, represent characters from the unreserved set without translation, and should convert all other characters to bytes according to UTF-8, and then percent-encode those values. This suggestion was introduced in January 2005 with the publication of RFC 3986. URI schemes introduced before this date are not affected.\n\nNot addressed by the current specification is what to do with encoded character data. For example, in computers, character data manifests in encoded form, at some level, and thus could be treated as either binary or character data when being mapped to URI characters. Presumably, it is up to the URI scheme specifications to account for this possibility and require one or the other, but in practice, few, if any, actually do.\n\nThere exists a non-standard encoding for Unicode characters: codice_41, where \"xxxx\" is a UTF-16 code unit represented as four hexadecimal digits. This behavior is not specified by any RFC and has been rejected by the W3C. The eighth edition of ECMA-262 still includes an codice_42 function that uses this syntax, along with codice_43 and codice_44 functions, which apply UTF-8 encoding to a string, then percent-escape the resulting bytes.\n\nWhen data that has been entered into HTML forms is submitted, the form field names and values are encoded and sent to the server in an HTTP request message using method GET or POST, or, historically, via email. The encoding used by default is based on an early version of the general URI percent-encoding rules, with a number of modifications such as newline normalization and replacing spaces with codice_45 instead of codice_24. The media type of data encoded this way is codice_1, and it is currently defined (still in a very outdated manner) in the HTML and XForms specifications. In addition, the CGI specification contains rules for how web servers decode data of this type and make it available to applications.\n\nWhen HTML form data is sent in an HTTP GET request, it is included in the query component of the request URI using the same syntax described above. When sent in an HTTP POST request or via email, the data is placed in the body of the message, and codice_1 is included in the message's Content-Type header.\n\nThe following specifications all discuss and define reserved characters, unreserved characters, and percent-encoding, in some form or other:\n"}
{"id": "1829298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829298", "title": "Lost cluster", "text": "Lost cluster\n\nLost clusters occur when a file is deleted from the directory listing, but the File Allocation Table (FAT) still shows the clusters allocated to the file.\n"}
{"id": "1829300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829300", "title": "The Aquanettas", "text": "The Aquanettas\n\nThe Aquanettas were an all-female band from New York City that one \"New York Times\" writer said played \"classic, basic rock-and-roll: just rugged guitar riffs and lyrics about the more bothersome aspects of romance\". Their music was influenced by classic rock such as Led Zeppelin and punk bands such as X, mixed with surf rock overtones. The band was formed in the late 1980s in New York City, New York by vocalist Deborah Schwartz and Jill Richmond along with bassist Claudine Troise and drummer Stephanie Seymour. The Aquanettas toured nationally and secured a record deal with Canadian record label Nettwerk Productions who also distributed their recordings through IRS Records in the United States. They released one album for IRS/Nettwerk, two Independent EPs and release three singles before breaking up in 1995.\n\nLead vocalist Deborah Schwartz had moved from Voorheesville to Manhattan in January 1986 after spending three months in Los Angeles, California where she met guitarist Jill Richmond. Schwartz began her career in New York with an experimental/performance art group called The Summit Ensemble. When Richmond joined her in New York one year later, they formed The Aquanettas along with bassist Claudine Troise and drummer Stephanie Seymour. It is reported that the band took their name from actress Burnu Acquanetta, who supposedly attended a Phoenix, Arizona show in 1990.\nWhen the band played the New Music Seminar in NYC they signed a deal with Canadian record label Nettwerk Productions (who distributed their albums through IRS Records in the United States) and toured nationally, including being a support act for Nine Inch Nails. Called \"a seminal all-female group from the early '90s\" by some writers, singer Joan Osborne has covered their songs in concert and is a fan, so much so she would later make Deborah Schwartz her first signing on her \"Womanly Hips\" label. After being dissatisfied with the lack of promotion that IRS Records was giving the band they asked to be let go and toured Europe on their own in support of their Indy releases. Jill Richmond would later say she became fond of using a certain slang term used for describing female genitalia while on tour in Great Britain. Their single, \"Mind Full of Worry\" is included on the soundtrack of Hal Hartley's 1994 film, \"Amateur\", and in 1996 a remix of their song \"Beach Party\" was included on the soundtrack for the feature film Kissed, which was distributed by MGM in the United States.\n\nClaudine played bass with instrumental band The Vice Royals featuring Pete \"The Other White Meat\" Linzell, Jay Sherman Godfrey's \"The Lazy Jaycees,\" and Nancy Sexton and the Sugar Monkeys.\n\nJill played with Mean Reds, with Vinny DeNunzio on drums, Kris Yiengst bass, and Elizabeth Presley on vocals. The Mike Hunt Band (Stones tribute band) was next, and is actually still going strong. Jill is Keith and Tammy Faye Starlight is Mick. Tammy and Jill are currently forming an original band called \"Little T & J.\"\n\nDebby was signed to Womanly Hips, Joan Osborne's Label and recorded \"Wrongs of Passage\", her 1998 major-label release. Currently, she sings and plays bass with P.G. Six band and sang on their 2006 Drag City release \"Slightly Sorry\". Debby has been a singer with Loser's Lounge since 1993. She is currently recording an album in NYC.\n\nStephanie joined Adam Roth's Psychic Penguin, a pop powerhouse band that featured strong melodies and wicked four-part harmonies. The members of Penguin liked to trade off instruments on stage, and Stephanie sang, played drums on a few songs, and played a lot of percussion in the band. After Penguin, she formed her own band and became lead singer and songwriter for Birdy. The band released two CDs (\"Supernominal Paraphernalia\" and \"Quarantine\") on the independent, collective, cooperative label Cropduster Records. She currently sings in The New Ugly, formed with her husband and former Winter Hours guitar player Bob Perry, and she occasionally sings in Loser's Lounge in NYC.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829315", "title": "Camilla Gibb", "text": "Camilla Gibb\n\nCamilla Gibb (born February 20, 1968) is an English-born Canadian writer who currently resides in Toronto.\n\nBorn in London, England, she grew up in Toronto, Ontario and studied at North Toronto Collegiate Institute and Jarvis Collegiate Institute. She attended the American University in Cairo before receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree in anthropology and Middle Eastern studies from the University of Toronto and a Doctor of Philosophy in social anthropology from the University of Oxford. She left academia in 2000 in order to pursue writing full-time.\n\nGibb gained recognition as a writer with the publication of her first novel, \"Mouthing the Words\", in 1999. She wrote it while living in her brother's trailer home, working on a borrowed laptop, after receiving a $6,000 gift from a benefactor. In 2000, the novel won Gibb the City of Toronto Book Award, and in 2001, she won the CBC Canadian Literary Award for short fiction.\n\nGibb's second novel, \"The Petty Details of So-and-So's Life\", was published in August 2002.\n\nGibb's third novel, \"Sweetness in the Belly\" (2005), is set against the backdrop of the Ethiopian Revolution and largely takes place in the ancient walled city of Harar. It was shortlisted for the Scotiabank Giller Prize in 2005, longlisted for the Dublin IMPAC Award and won the Trillium Award for best book in Ontario in 2006. It is currently in production as a film starring Dakota Fanning, Yahya Abdulmateen II and Kunal Nayyar. \n\nHer fourth novel, \"The Beauty of Humanity Movement\" was published in Canada in September 2010, and in the US and the UK in spring 2011.\n\nGibb's memoir, \"This is Happy,\" was released in Canada on August 18, 2015.\n\nGibb's father Duncan, a man she describes as \"prone to manic outbursts and destructive, paranoid and cruel\", but also intelligent and full of projects, disappeared when she was in her early twenties. She had very few contacts with him until his death.\n\nIn 2009, Gibb separated from her partner, Heather Conway, after almost ten years together. Gibb was pregnant at the time; she later gave birth to a daughter. Her 2015 book \"This is Happy\" is a memoir that explores what the word \"family\" means to her, from the family she grew up in to the one she had to build with her child.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829316", "title": "Battle of Matapan", "text": "Battle of Matapan\n\nThe naval Battle of Matapan took place on 19 July 1717 off the Cape Matapan, on the coast of the Mani Peninsula in southern Greece, between the Armada Grossa of the Republic of Venice, supported by a mixed squadron of allied ships from Portugal, the Papal States and Malta, and the Ottoman fleet, under \"Kapudan Pasha\" Eğribozlu İbrahim Pasha.\n\nThe 24 Venetian sailing ships under Marcantonio Diedo, commander of the Venetian fleet, met up with another Venetian squadron of 24 galleys under the \"Capitano generale da Mar\" Andrea Pisani and a small squadron of 9 mixed Portuguese-Maltese ships under the Maltese knight Bellefontaine near Cape Matapan on 2 July. After trying separately to win the wind gauge, and running out of water supply, the Allied force went to Marathonisi, near the top of the Gulf of Matapan, to resupply. They had tried to reach Sapientza, but winds were against them and they took the risk of being caught in the gulf.\n\nThe Ottoman fleet, with 30 sailing ships, and 4 galleys, was seen to the south, on the west side of the bay entrance, on 19 July. With a light wind from the SSE, this meant that they had the advantage. Diedo, unable to sail to the west of the Ottoman fleet, decided to sail slowly east, across the bay.\n\nThe Allied fleet was organized into four divisions: the \"Capitano delle Navi\", Diedo, was in the Van, followed by the Center, led by his second in command, Correr. The 3rd or Rear Division was commanded by Dolfin. The 4th or Allied Division was commanded by Belle Fontaine.\n\nIbrahim with 6 ships attacked the Rear Division at about 6am, while the rest of his fleet went ahead and attacked the Van and Center. At about 12pm the fleets were approaching the east side of the bay, and shortly after the leading ships turned, the wind turned from the SE, putting the leading Venetian ships to windward of some of the Ottoman fleet for the first time. Taking advantage of this, Diedo attacked them and the tough battle continued. At about 3pm the Ottoman fleet retired, sailing for the Cervi-Cerigo passage, while the Allies sailed for Cape Matapan. Neither side wished to continue the fight.\n\nAs a result of the battle, the Venetian attempt to recapture the Morea was foiled and the Ottoman reconquest of the peninsula was confirmed.\n\nEach Allied state gave their own ships complete credit for any achievements. Some of these accounts are almost totally unreliable due to a variety of reasons—for example, their inclusion of forces which were not actually present for the battle.\n\n\n\n13 Venetian<br>\n5 Maltese<br>\n4 Papal<br>\n2 Tuscan\n\n\"Kebir Üç Ambarlı\" (The Great Three Decker) 114 (Flagship of Ibrahim Pasha)<br>\n\"Ejder Başlı\" (The Dragon) 70<br>\n\"Çifte Ceylan Kıçlı\" (The Two Gazelles) 70<br>\n\"Yaldızlı Hurma\" (The Gilded Date) 70<br>\n\"Şadırvan Kıçlı\" (The Sprinkling Fountain) 66<br>\n\"Siyah At Başlı\" (The Black Horse) 66<br>\n\"Beyaz At Başlı\" (The White Horse) 66<br>\n\"Kula At Başlı\" (The Grey Horse) 66<br>\n\"Büyük Gül Başlı\" (The Great Rose) 66<br>\n\"Yılan Başlı\" (The Snake) 34 (unique ship with 2x372 pdr \"üç kantar\" monster guns firing marble balls)<br>\n\"Ifrit Başlı\" (The Demon) 62<br>\n\"Küçük Gül Başlı\" (The Little Rose) 60<br>\n\"Çifte Teber Kıçlı\" (Two Halberds) 58<br>\n\"Yıldız Bagçeli\" (The Star Garden) 58<br>\n\"Zülfikâr Kıçlı\" (The Two Pointed Sword) 56<br>\n\"Akçaşehir\" (Town of Akçaşehir) 56 guns<br>\n\"Servi Bagçeli\" (The Cypress Garden) 54<br>\n\"Ay Bagçeli\" (The Moon Garden) 54<br>\n\"Yeşil Kuşaklı\" (Green Belted) 54<br>\n\"Sarı Kuşaklı\" (Yellow Belted) 54<br>\n\"Kırmızı Kuşaklı\" (Red Belted) 52<br>\n\"Al At Başlı\" (The Red Horse) 52<br>\n\"Yaldızlı Nar Kıçlı\" (The Gilded Pomegranate) 52\n\n\"Mavi Arslan Başlı\" (The Blue Lion) 44<br>\n\"Siyah Arslan Başlı\" (The Black Lion) 44<br>\n\"Taç Başlı\" (The Crown) 44<br>\n\"Güneş Kıçlı\" (The Sun) 44<br>\n\"Kuş Bagçeli Karavele\" (The Bird Garden Caravella) 44<br>\n\"Yıldız Kıçlı\" (The Star) 40<br>\n\"Mavi Kıçlı Karavele\" (The Blue Caravella) 38<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "1829321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829321", "title": "Joonas Kolkka", "text": "Joonas Kolkka\n\nJoonas Einari Kolkka (born 28 September 1974) is a retired Finnish footballer who played as a left winger most of his career, but could also play on the right wing. Having started his career in his native Finland, he went on to play for several clubs in the Netherlands, Greece, Germany, England, and the USA.\n\nBorn in Lahti, Kolkka started his career with Reipas Lahti and MyPa in Finland's Veikkausliiga. He won the Finnish Cup with MyPa in 1995 before joining Netherlands' Willem II the same year. In 1998 Kolkka joined Dutch club PSV Eindhoven where he won two league championships and got to play in the UEFA Champions League. Kolkka then moved to Greek side Panathinaikos in 2001, and he spent two seasons there. After leaving Greece, Kolkka played a season each for Borussia Mönchengladbach of the German Bundesliga and Crystal Palace of the English Premiership. He scored at both Anfield and Old Trafford during his stay at the club, and also scored in the thrilling 3–3 draw with Norwich. He was released by Palace, and returned to the Netherlands in 2005, signing a one-year deal with ADO Den Haag. After an impressive season with ADO, he was signed by Dutch side Feyenoord in the summer of 2006, and played until summer 2011 for NAC Breda. In 2011, he was signed by his former club, Willem II, being employed as a player and a sales manager of the club.\n\nOn 4 May 2012, it was announced that Kolkka had signed a three-month-contract with Texas Dutch Lions, in the third level of American football (not Dayton Dutch Lions). After his contract with the Dutch Lions expired, Kolkka returned to the Netherlands, working as a youth coach for his former club PSV.\n\nKolkka made his debut for the Finnish national team on 26 October 1994 against Estonia, and was a regular in the Finland lineup until 2010.\n\nFinland's score first. As of 20 August 2011\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829322", "title": "Charles-Amédée-Philippe van Loo", "text": "Charles-Amédée-Philippe van Loo\n\nCharles-Amédée-Philippe van Loo (25 August 1719 – 15 November 1795) was a French painter of allegorical scenes and portraits.\n\nHe studied under his father, the painter Jean-Baptiste van Loo, at Turin and Rome, where in 1738 he won the Prix de Rome, then at Aix-en-Provence, before returning to Paris in 1745. He was invited to join the Académie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture in 1747, and that year he married his cousin Marie-Marguerite Lebrun, daughter of the painter Michel Lebrun (died 1753).\n\nHe was the author of the only known real-life portrait of the Marquis de Sade.\n\nAmong his brothers were the painters François van Loo (1708–1732) and Louis-Michel van Loo (1707–1771).\n\n"}
{"id": "1829324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829324", "title": "Jonathan M. Roberts", "text": "Jonathan M. Roberts\n\nJonathan Manning Roberts (December 7, 1821 - February 28, 1888) was an American lawyer, spiritualist medium and writer. \n\nRoberts authored the book \"Antiquity Unveiled\" which was published in 1892. It claims to be an account of spirit messages proving Christianity \"an offspring of more ancient religions\". He was a proponent of the Christ myth theory. He practised law prior to becoming an editor for the weekly spiritualist journal \"Mind and Matter\".\n\nRoberts was a member of the abolitionist party prior to the American Civil War, and a Republican afterward. His father was a member of the U.S. Senate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829326", "title": "ISO 5775", "text": "ISO 5775\n\nISO 5775 is an international standard for labeling the size of bicycle tires and rims. The system used was originally developed by the European Tyre and Rim Technical Organisation (ETRTO). It is designed to make tire sizing consistent and clear. It replaces overlapping informal systems that ambiguously distinguished between sizes. For example, at least 6 different \"26 inch\" sizes exist (just by American notation), and \"27 inch\" wheels have a larger diameter than American \"28 inch\" (French \"700C\") wheels. The Japanese standard JIS D 9421 specifies the same dimensional system, but adds details on additional rim types and also specifies additional parameters such as rim strength and details of spoke holes.\n\nWired-edge tires can be mounted on straight-side or crochet-type (aka hook bead) rims. Crochet-type rims are not the same as hooked-bead rims. Such tires are designated with their \"nominal width\" and their \"nominal rim diameter\", separated by a hyphen (-). Both are measured in millimeters. A typical example of a tire marking according to ISO 5775-1 is:\n\n\nThe standard notes that the minimum inflation pressure recommended is 300 kPa for narrow tires (25 mm section width or less), 200 kPa for other sizes in normal highway service, and 150 kPa for off-the-road service.\n\nThe inner width of the rim on which the tire is mounted should be about 65% of the tire's nominal section width for tires smaller than 30 mm and 55% for those larger.\n\nThe section height of a tire is usually identical to its section width (for tires less than 28 mm, 2.5 mm have to be added to the width to get the height). The overall diameter of the tire is then the rim diameter plus twice the tire's section height. The ISO 5775-1 standard also defines procedures for measuring tires and for calculating from the marking the maximum dimensions of a tire, which are needed by designers to determine clearance distances to other bicycle components.\n\nThe standard defines a set of nominal section widths for wired-edge tires and lists recommended rim widths for each:\n\nNote how in the below sorted table the \"inches\" measure is inconsistent with the mm measures, if height varies: Some 28\" tires then have less mm than a 27\" tire. 584 mm tires are also marketed as \"27.5\"\" (outer diam.) tires. \nOlder markings of wired-edge tires can be converted to ISO 5775 designations with the help of the following table:\n\nSuch older markings can be appended to the ISO 5775 designation in parentheses.\n\nBeaded-edge tires are mounted on hooked-bead rims. They are marked with an \"overall diameter code\" and a \"nominal section-width code\", separated by a cross (×). An example for such a marking is\n\nISO 5775-2 defines designations for bicycle rims. It distinguishes between\n\n\nBoth crochet (C) and hooked-bead (HB) rims have inner profiles that curve inwards near the outside diameter of the rim to provide a hook that helps retain the tire bead under high pressure. On modern bikes crochet rims are most common and hooked bead rims are rare. The distinction is primarily that hooked-bead rims lack the defined bead seat of straight side and hooked bead rims. The tire is held in position radially by the hook without a bead seat playing a role. Without a bead seat, the primary designation of the diameter in terms of the bead seat is not applicable, and the governing diameter is the OD.\n\nRims are designated by their \"nominal rim diameter\" and their \"nominal width\", separated by a cross (×). Both are measured in millimeters. The rim type codes SS or HB precede the rim designation, whereas code C is appended to the nominal width. Examples:\n\nThe nominal width of a rim is the inner width between the straight sides or beads as one can easily measure it with a caliper (see the standard for drawings and exact measurement procedures).\n\nThe standard widths of straight-side rims are:\n\nThe standard widths of crochet-type rims are:\n\nThe standard widths of hooked-bead rims are:\n\nThe diameters of straight-side and crochet-type rims are measured as the bead seat diameter (BSD). Standard values are:\n\nThe diameters of hooked-bead rims are measured as the outside diameter of the rim (not the tire). Standard values are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829328", "title": "Hong Kong national cricket team", "text": "Hong Kong national cricket team\n\nThe Hong Kong national cricket team is the team that represents Hong Kong and played its first match in 1866 and has been an associate member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) since 1969.\n\nHong Kong played its first One Day Internationals in the 2004 Asia Cup, and in January 2014 was granted ODI status until 2018, as a result of finishing third in the 2014 Cricket World Cup Qualifier. The team gained Twenty20 International status in November 2013, as a result of qualifying for the 2014 ICC World Twenty20. Hong Kong lost their ODI status in March 2018 after losing to the Netherlands in a play-off match during the 2018 Cricket World Cup Qualifier. They did, however, play two further ODI matches at the 2018 Asia Cup in September 2018 after winning the 2018 Asia Cup Qualifier, as the ICC announced that all matches played at the finals would have ODI status.\n\nHong Kong has played in every ICC Trophy/World Cup Qualifier tournament, with the exceptions of the 1979 and 2005 events. It has also taken part in two ICC Intercontinental Cup tournaments, in 2005 and in 2015–17, and in two ICC T20 World Cup tournaments, in 2014 and 2016.\n\nIn April 2018, the ICC decided to grant full Twenty20 International (T20I) status to all its members. Therefore, all Twenty20 matches played between Hong Kong and other ICC members after 1 January 2019 will be a full T20I.\n\nThe sport was introduced to Hong Kong by the British, with the first recorded game taking place in 1841, and the Hong Kong Cricket Club being founded ten years later. The Cricket Club (playing as Hong Kong) played a number of Interport matches against sides on the Chinese mainland, the first taking place against Shanghai in 1866, and in 1890 played Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) for the first time.\n\n1892 saw disaster when the , which was carrying the team back from Shanghai, sank in a typhoon with the loss of 125 lives. There were only 23 survivors, which included only 2 of the 13 team members. The other 11 members of the team were lost, including Surrey cricketer John Dunn.\n\n1948 saw the last game against Shanghai.Jack Chegwyn led the first international team to Hong Kong in 1952, and the first tour by an MCC team was in 1966. The MCC, captained by Mike Smith played one match against the national side, winning by 74 runs. In 1969 the Hong Kong Cricket Association became an associate member of the International Cricket Council, cricket's global ruling body.\n\nThe year after gaining ICC membership, the Hong Kong national side played against an MCC side captained by Tony Lewis, drawing the game, but it was not until the 1982 ICC Trophy when the Hong Kong team next played. At that tournament the Hong Kong team, which featured future England Test cricketer Dermot Reeve, failed to progress beyond the first round.\n\nHong Kong took part in the following three ICC Trophy tournaments, again failing to progress beyond the first round in 1986, reaching the plate competition in 1990 and the second round in 1994. They then played in the inaugural ACC Trophy tournament in 1996, failing to progress beyond the group stage after losing to Bangladesh and Fiji.\n\nIn 1997, Hong Kong returned to Chinese control. In the same year, the national team finished eighth in the ICC Trophy. They played in the ACC Trophy again in 1998, losing to Malaysia in the semi-finals.\n\nIn 2000, Hong Kong reached the final of the ACC Trophy, where they lost to the United Arab Emirates. Nonetheless, this earned them qualification for the 2002 Asia Cup (which was subsequently moved to 2004), and thus their first taste of One Day International cricket.\n\nHong Kong fared poorly in the 2001 ICC Trophy, going out in the group stage having achieved only one win, against Papua New Guinea. In 2002, they reached the semi-finals of the ACC Trophy, again losing to the United Arab Emirates.\n\nAt the 2004 Asia Cup, held in Sri Lanka, Hong Kong were drawn alongside Test nations Bangladesh and Pakistan. They lost both matches heavily, despite restricting Bangladesh to 221/9 in the first match.\n\nAlso in 2004, Hong Kong failed to progress beyond the first round of the ACC Trophy after losing in the group stages to Oman and Bahrain, missing out on qualification for the 2005 ICC Trophy in Ireland. They also reached the final of the ACC Fast Track Countries Tournament, losing to the United Arab Emirates. Hong Kong played in the Intercontinental Cup for the first time in 2005. They lost to the UAE and drew with Nepal, failing to reach the semi-finals. They finished last in the fast-track nations tournament the same year.\n\nIn 2006, Hong Kong again lost to the United Arab Emirates in the final of the ACC Trophy, and finished fourth in the ACC Premier League. The following year, they travelled to Darwin, Australia to take part in Division Three of the World Cricket League, finishing fifth, relegating them to Division Four for 2008.\n\nIn October/November 2007, Hong Kong took part in the inaugural ACC Twenty20 Cup held in Kuwait, where they played in Group B against the United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Hong Kong finished 4th in their group and failed to make to the semi-finals stage.\n\nIn June 2008, Hong Kong took part in the Asia Cup in Pakistan. They failed to progress beyond the group stage to the Super Four stage, as they lost both of their group A matches against India and Pakistan convincingly.\n\nIn October 2008, Hong Kong travelled to Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania to participate in Division Four of the World Cricket League. Hong Kong won four group matches against; Fiji, Italy, Jersey and the hosts but lost twice to Afghanistan in their group match and the Final. Hong Kong's top two finish resulted in their promotion back to Division Three.\n\nIn 2011 they hosted the Division Three and won it defeating Papua New Guinea in the finals to qualify for Division Two to be held in the United Arab Emirates. Then in Division Two they came 4th qualifying as HPP member and for 2014 Cricket World Cup Qualifier in New Zealand. .\n\nIn 2013 the UAE hosted the ICC T20 Qualifier where Hong Kong came 6th by beating Papua New Guinea and just enough to qualify for ICC T20 World Cup 2014 held in Bangladesh.\n\nIn 2014, New Zealand hosted the ICC 50 over world cup qualifier where Hong Kong came third place despite of not qualifying for 2015 ICC cricket world cup, they still achieved an ODI status with Papua New Guinea.\n\nIn March 2014 Hong Kong beat the host Bangladesh in the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 by two wickets with two balls remaining but could not make it to the next stage of super 10 having lost the two earlier matches to Afghanistan and Nepal\n\nHong Kong first ODI win against a full member came on 8 March 2018 defeating Afghanistan in 2018 Cricket World Cup Qualifier.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInternational Match Summary – Hong Kong\n\n\nMost ODI runs for Hong Kong\n\nMost ODI wickets for Hong Kong\n\nHighest individual innings in ODI \n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in ODI \n\nODI record versus other nations\n\n\nMost T20I runs for Hong Kong\n\nMost T20I wickets for Hong Kong\n\nT20I record versus other nations\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829330", "title": "Heze", "text": "Heze\n\nHeze, formerly known as Caozhou, is a prefecture-level city in southwestern Shandong province, China. It is home to 8,287,693 inhabitants, of whom 1,346,717 live in the built-up area around the seat of government in Mudan District. The westernmost prefecture-level city in Shandong, it borders Jining to the east and the provinces of Henan and Anhui to the west and south respectively.\n\nIn Chinese, the name of the city is sometimes miswritten as \"\", owing to the similarity of the characters.\n\nCaozhou was at the center of the Nian Rebellion during the 1850s and 60s.\n\nIn August 1949, Heze was detached from Shandong and given to the experimental province of Pingyuan. It returned to Shandong just over three years later.\n\nIn April 1953, Heze and Jining gained counties from the former prefecture of Huxi after its abolishment.\n\nHeze has a monsoon-influenced climate that lies between the humid subtropical and humid continental zones (Köppen \"Cwa/Dwa\"), with four well-defined seasons. The city is warm and nearly rainless in spring, hot and humid in summer, crisp in autumn and cold and dry in winter. The mean annual temperature is , with the monthly 24-hour average temperature ranging from in January to in July. Nearly 70% of the annual precipitation occurs from June to September. With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 48% in July to 60% in May, the city receives 2,411 hours of bright sunshine annually.\n\nThe prefecture-level city of Heze administers nine county-level divisions. The municipal executive, legislature and judiciary are in Mudan District (), together with CPC and Public Security bureaux.\n\nThere are two districts and seven counties:\n\nThese are further divided into 158 township-level divisions.\nAccording to the 2010 population census, there were 8,287,693 people living in this area.\n\n\nHeze is the largest center in China for the cultivation of the \"national flower\" peony, after which the Mudan District was named. Over 30% of its GDP comes from the sale of peony.\n\nMobile, Alabama \n\n"}
{"id": "1829331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829331", "title": "Yamakasi (film)", "text": "Yamakasi (film)\n\nYamakasi – Les samouraïs des temps modernes is a 2001 French movie featuring the Yamakasi. The 2004 film \"Les fils du vent\" is a semi-sequel playing in Bangkok.\n\nThe Yamakasi are a group of young thrill seekers of different ethnic backgrounds who are all dedicated to parkour. They live in France in a banlieue, a ghetto especially designed for paupers and traditionally inhabited by immigrants from former French colonies. The motley group uses their sport to enjoy themselves without drugs and to gain recognition in a peaceful way. One morning, they are reported buildering the east side of the Bleuets building and evading the police after that. While they consider themselves good examples for youths in the banlieue, the local chief of police feels otherwise. From his point of view, they are reckless and dangerous individuals prone to become criminals while one of his men, Inspector Vincent Asmine believes they are dangerous only because children could hurt themselves by trying to emulate them. On this occasion each single member is introduced through his birth name and alias to the spectators of the film too: Zicmu (Ousmane Dadjacan), Tango (Jean-Michel Lucas), Rocket (Abdou N'Goto), the Spider (Bruno Duris), the Weasel (Malik N'Diaye), Baseball (Oliver Chen), and Sitting Bull (Ousmane Bana).\n\nFollowing this meeting, two pupils enjoy themselves by climbing in a tree. A third little boy named Djamel who is with them suffers with an inborn cardiovascular disease. When he tries to join them, he has a cardiac arrest after falling from the tree. In the hospital, his mother and eldest sister, Aila learn an immediate heart transplantation is imperative. The chief physician suggests to save the child by buying a heart from a shady broker. He stresses that this is the only solution but not supported by their health insurance. He demands from the boy's family to pay 400,000 Francs within 24 hours.\n\nThe head physician advises the family to ask their friends, neighbors, and family for support. This includes the Yamakasi who go and visit Djamel in the hospital and promise to train him to be a Yamakasi member once they have found a way to help him survive his upcoming operation. Then, they go and talk to the head physician himself and ask why a child is supposed to die only because his parents are poor. They insist he would contact the hospital's board of directors. When he refuses to phone either of them, they steal the list of names and decide to walk in the footsteps of Robin Hood.\n\nThey split up into 3 groups which each robs one or two houses of the board of directors. The first two robberies are successful, however one of the groups gets chased out of a house by Dobermans and is captured on camera. The police realize that the board of directors is being targeted and attempt to catch the Yamakasi in their next robberies, but are unsuccessful. The Yamakasi finally converge on the mansion of the head of the directors. The police arrive quickly and surround the house. With no chance of escaping, they instead gather all of the loot from the robberies into a bag and toss to Baseball's friend and working partner, Michelin who pawns it off for the needed amount of money.\n\nThe Yamakasi are questioned by the police and each give the same story which the investigator finds ridiculous. However, Asmine, who is actually one of the Yamakasi members' (Sitting Bull) cousin, backs up their story, leaving the investigator with no choice but to let them go. They arrive at the hospital just as the head physician is attempting to raise the price on the heart at gunpoint and convince him to authorize the surgery at the price they are giving him, thanks to Inspector Asmine's intervention.\n\nThe Yamakasi then celebrate Djamel's successful recovery from surgery along with Asmine who has retired from police work and start talking to the camera recording them about their joy over his recovery and how they intend to train him to become one of them once he is fully recovered and out of the hospital.\n\n\nThe Climbing Girl\n\n"}
{"id": "1829340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829340", "title": "Araki Yasusada", "text": "Araki Yasusada\n\nAraki Yasusada was a non-existent Japanese poet, generally thought (though unverified) to be the creation of American literature professor Kent Johnson (born 1955). The publication of Yasusada's poetry by major literary journals including the \"American Poetry Review\", \"Grand Street\" and \"Conjunctions\" during the early 1990s created an embarrassing scandal for these publications.\n\nAraki Yasusada was supposedly a survivor of the Hiroshima atom bomb. He was born in 1907, attended Hiroshima University (before it was even founded, in 1949), worked in the postal service, and was conscripted into the Japanese army during World War II. He died of cancer in 1972. His son discovered his poems and notebooks and in 1991 they began to appear in print in the United States.\n\nThe 'notebooks' included editorial comments, smudged ink and illegible text, and other elaborate attempts to give the appearance of authenticity. They also included hints leading to their own unravelling, however, such as references to poets who probably would not be known to Japanese poets of the period and anachronistic references to such things as scuba divers.\n\nThe real writer of the poems is widely believed to be Kent Johnson, professor of Highland Community College in Freeport, Illinois, though he has never claimed authorship. Beliefs about Johnson's role as author stem in no small part from the fact that Johnson edited the Yasusada texts for the Wesleyan University Press. Johnson also included Yasusada's poetry in his doctoral dissertation.\n\nThe texts that had been published in the poetry journals were sent to various academics from a variety of locations, presenting Yasusada as an invented persona that was used by one or more people who intended the keep the origin of the texts secret.\n\nJohnson admitted to some critics that Yasusada was nothing but an invented pseudonym \"somebody\" used to conceal the writer's origin. Some editors, who asked Johnson who the real writer was, claim to have received different answers. One response was that the real writer was \"Tosa Motokiyu\", one of the three \"Japanese translators\"—or at least, 95 percent of the poems were his, the rest being Johnson's older work, which Motokiyu had requested to include in his Yasusada fiction. Johnson continued to lecture on Yasusada and denied the hoax in interviews. At one stage he claimed that Motokiyu asked Johnson to take credit for the poems before Motokiyu's death. Yet elsewhere he said that Motokiyu's name was yet another pseudonym.\n\nThere were a number of rumors about other supposed co-authors, including the leading avant-garde Mexican composer, Javier Alvarez, who appears as co-editor of the work with Johnson. Publishers demanded their money back and criticized the hoax. Wesleyan cancelled the publication of the poetry collection. Some critics noticed that Johnson had published similar poetry in 1986 under the name of Ogiwara Miyamori, in \"Ironwood\" magazine.\n\nAfter the 'hoax' was discovered, several journals rejected previously accepted poems. The hoax has allegedly been called \"a criminal act\" by Arthur Vogelsang, editor of \"American Poetry Review\", which had previously published a special supplement of Yasusada poems, including an alleged portrait of the author, but in letters to the \"Boston Review\" he denied having used the phrase. But numerous critics were supportive, praising both the conceptual nature of the fiction and the quality of the writing, including Roof Books that published the entire text in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829348", "title": "Brad Gilbert", "text": "Brad Gilbert\n\nBrad Gilbert (born August 9, 1961) is a former professional tennis player and an American tennis coach. During his career, he won 20 singles titles and achieved a career-high singles ranking of world No. 4 in 1990, and a career-high doubles ranking of world No. 18 four years prior. He won a bronze medal at the 1988 Olympics, and both a gold medal and a silver medal at the 1981 Maccabiah Games.\n\nSince retiring from the tour, he has coached several top players, most notably Andre Agassi who won six of his eight Grand Slam titles under Gilbert's tutelage. Other players he has coached include Andy Roddick, Andy Murray, and Kei Nishikori.\n\nGilbert was born in Oakland, California, and attended Piedmont High School, for which he played tennis. His father Barry was a high school history teacher, and then started a real estate firm.\n\nGilbert played tennis for Foothill College, a junior college in Los Altos Hills, California, from 1980–82, where he was coached by Tom Chivington. During this time, he won the California Junior College Singles Championship and the U.S. Amateur Hardcourt Championship. In 1981, Gilbert became a member of the American Junior Davis Cup team. He competed for the US in the 1981 Maccabiah Games in Israel, losing in the men's singles finals to Israeli Shlomo Glickstein, but winning a gold medal in doubles with Jon Levine over fellow Americans Rick Meyer and Paul Bernstein. In 1982, he transferred to Pepperdine University, playing for Allen Fox, where he became an All-American and reached the finals of the 1982 NCAA Championship, losing to Mike Leach of Michigan 7–5, 6–3.\n\nGilbert joined the professional tour in 1982 and won his first top-level singles title later that year in Taipei. His first doubles title came in 1985 in Tel Aviv.\n\nGilbert won a total of 20 top-level singles titles during his career, the biggest being the Cincinnati Masters tournament in 1989. He was also runner-up in a further 20 singles events, including Cincinnati in 1990, where he lost to six-time Grand Slam champion Stefan Edberg, and the Paris Masters in 1987 and 1988.\n\nGilbert's most successful year on the tour was 1989, during which he won five singles titles, including Cincinnati, where he beat four future Hall of Famers to claim the title: Pete Sampras, Michael Chang, Boris Becker and Stefan Edberg.\n\nGilbert's best performances at Grand Slam tournaments were in the Quarterfinals of the 1987 US Open, losing to Jimmy Connors and in the quarterfinals of the 1990 Wimbledon Championships, losing to Boris Becker. He was also runner-up at the inaugural Grand Slam Cup in 1990.\n\nGilbert was ranked among the top-ten players in the U.S. for nine of his first ten years on the professional tour. His career win-loss record in singles play was 519–288.\n\nAmong his upsets of players ranked in the world's top 3 were his defeat of No. 2 Boris Becker, 3–6, 6–3, 6–4, in Cincinnati in 1989, No. 2 Edberg, 7–6, 6–7, 6–4, in Los Angeles in 1991, No. 3 Sampras, 6–3, 6–4, in London in 1992, and No. 3 Jim Courier, 6–4, 6–4, at Memphis in 1994, Edberg, 6–4, 2–6, 7–6, in Cincinnati in 1989, and perhaps most significantly, No. 2 John McEnroe, 5–7, 6–4, 6–1, at the Masters Grand Prix in 1985, which sent McEnroe into his first six-month break from tennis.\n\nUnlike many other professional players of his era, Gilbert did not have a major offensive weapon such as an overpowering serve or forehand. His best asset was his ability to keep the ball in play. He hit the ball most often at a slow but accurate pace and was sometimes called a pusher. In his 2002 autobiography, John McEnroe called Gilbert a pusher and claimed that Gilbert had the ability to bring talented players down to his type of game. In addition, McEnroe stated that Gilbert was the most negative person he had ever played tennis against, and he was riled by Gilbert's alleged non-stop tirades against himself while playing.\n\nGilbert kept an open stance and did not make many turns when at the baseline. This enabled him to control the game through oversight and tempo, despite his defensive style. He built his game around destroying his opponent's rhythm. He forced his opponent into long rallies by hitting the ball high over the net and deep into his opponent's court. If an opponent employed a slow pace, Gilbert attacked decisively, often at the net. He was one of the sport's top strategists as a player. Although he was easy to get along with outside the court, Gilbert was a fierce competitor with a sometimes annoying style of play, focusing on his opponent's weaknesses. Both his style of play and his mental approach brought him wins over the world's top players and kept him near the top 10 for six years.\n\nGilbert compiled a 10–5 record in Davis Cup play from 1986–93, with a 7–1 record on hard courts and carpet.\n\nGilbert won a bronze medal in men's singles at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.\n\nGilbert is a member of the USTA Northern California Hall of Fame, and the International Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nGilbert is also a 1999 inductee into the Pepperdine Athletics Hall of Fame.\n\nGilbert was inducted in 2001 into the ITA Intercollegiate Tennis Hall of Fame, and in 2003 into the Southern California Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nGilbert was a 2001 inductee into the Marblehead Boosters Hall of Fame.\n\nGilbert retired as a player in 1995. Since 1994, he has been successful as a tennis coach. This success has often been associated with the extraordinary tactical abilities exhibited during his own matches.\n\nGilbert was the coach of Andre Agassi for eight years, from March 1994 until January 2002. Agassi won six of his eight majors when Gilbert was his coach. Agassi described Gilbert as \"the greatest coach of all time\".\n\nOn June 3, 2003, Gilbert became the coach of Andy Roddick, who won the 2003 US Open under Gilbert's guidance, as well as clinching the year-end world no. 1 for 2003 and reaching the 2004 Wimbledon final. They parted ways on December 12, 2004.\n\nOn July 26, 2006, Gilbert was announced as taking over the coaching duties of Scottish player Andy Murray. As well as coaching Murray, Gilbert took part, pursuant to a 3-year deal, in other British Lawn Tennis Association programmes, including tennis camps at under-12 and under-14 levels. He also worked with the LTA's network of coaches and its high-performance clubs and academies. On November 14, 2007, after 16 months working together, Gilbert and Murray parted company. By then, Murray had reached a then career-high ranking of no. 8.\n\nIn November 2007 it was announced that Gilbert would work for 20 weeks in 2008 for Britain's Lawn Tennis Association, concentrating mostly on coaching Britain's no. 2, Alex Bogdanović, and others in his age group. Bogdanović said he was \"unbelievably excited\" at the chance of spending time with Gilbert. Roger Draper, the LTA's chief executive, said: \"We have set Brad a new challenge of getting Alex into the top 100 and also 'upskilling' our coaches and inspiring the next generation to follow in Andy's footsteps.\"\n\nWhile still being committed to his TV items, in December 2010 it was announced that Gilbert would return to coaching, and partner with Kei Nishikori of Japan for 15 tournaments in the 2011 season. Gilbert's partnership with Nishikori concluded at the end of the 2011 season.\n\nIn February 2012, it was announced that Gilbert would work with American Sam Querrey on a trial basis in 2012.\n\nGilbert now serves as a tennis analyst for ESPN. He is also the author of the book \"Winning Ugly\", which gives tips on how an average player can defeat a more skilled opponent and better the average player's mental game. His second book, co-authored by James Kaplan and entitled \"I've Got Your Back,\" was published in 2005.\n\nGilbert is Jewish and resides with his wife Kim in Malibu, California. He has three children Zach, Julian and Zoe.\n\nHe owns a tennis shop in downtown San Rafael, California called Brad Gilbert’s Tennis Nation. He was a close friend of tennis player/Commentator Barry MacKay.\n\nWhile commentating Andy Murray's third-round match in the 2011 Australian Open for ESPN2, Gilbert mentioned that he lives near the Olympian runner Michael Johnson and that when he was Murray's coach he introduced Johnson and Murray, who did a series of sprints together on a nearby track.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829351", "title": "Jade Kwan", "text": "Jade Kwan\n\nKwan Wai-Man (born 31 July 1979), better known professionally as Jade Kwan Sum-Yin (), is a Cantopop singer and philanthropist based in Hong Kong. Originally from Vancouver, she entered the music industry after winning the 1999 New Talent Singing Awards Canada Finals and the Best Potential Newcomer Award at the New Talent Singing Awards International Finals of the same year. She debuted under BMA Records in July 2002 with the album \"Jade-1,\" winning multiple best new artist awards and has since released more than 13 albums and extended plays. Kwan is known for her philanthropic work and has been awarded the 2012 Ten Outstanding Young Persons Selection and the Hong Kong Volunteer Award in 2011. She is the founder and chairperson of charitable organization Shining Life Limited 妍亮生命慈善基金.\n\nKwan was born in Hong Kong on July 31, 1979. She has an older brother. After her parents' divorce when she was eight years old, she immigrated with her mother and brother to British Columbia, Canada in 1990. Her mother returned to Hong Kong after a few years for work. Feeling uncomfortable in a new environment, Kwan had stated that she had engaged in smoking, underage drinking, and skipped school when she was twelve years old. She had also contemplated suicide when her first boyfriend broke up with her. She was admitted to University of British Columbia for studies in pharmaceutical science.\n\nAfter graduating high school, she entered the New Talent Singing Awards Vancouver Audition 1999 (新秀歌唱大賽溫哥華選拔賽) with the song \"Face\" (臉, originally sung by Chinese diva Faye Wong) and was awarded first runner-up. As such, she advanced to the New Talent Singing Awards Canada Finals 1999 (新秀歌唱大賽加拿大總決賽) and won. She then competed in the New Talent Singing Awards International Finals 1999 (1999 年全球華人新秀歌唱大賽, also representing Vancouver) and won the \"Best Potential Newcomer Award\" (最具潛質獎) at the International Finals held in Shanghai, China.\n\nShe returned to Hong Kong hoping to pursue a career in singing, eventually landing a 10-year deal with BMA Records. Kwan did not officially debut until 2002, stating that for three years she did not have jobs, instead spent time learning music theory and how to play the tenor sax and violin. She relied on her mother for financial support, stating \"the amount of money my mother invested in me really can't be calculated, it must be more than six figures.\"\n\nShe made her debut with the Mandarin single \"Ruined Your Lover\" 亂了情人 and followed with Cantonese release \"Can't Stand For It\" 負擔不起, both well received by radio stations. Her debut studio album, \"Jade-1,\" containing 11 tracks, was released July 3, 2002. She achieved her first number one hit on RTHK and TVB's Jade Solid Gold Song Chart with the song \"You Have Heart\" 你有心, released in her second studio album \"Jade-2\" on December 20 of the same year. Both \"Jade-1\" and \"Jade-2\" reached gold certification, selling 30,000 copies and 50,000 copies respectively. As such, Kwan was awarded 2002 IFPI Best Selling Local Female Newcomer. She swept newcomer awards at year-end music award shows, including Best Prospect Award Gold Prize at the 25th RTHK Top 10 Gold Songs Awards, Best New Female Artist at Metro Radio Music Awards, Ultimate Song Chart's Female Newcomer Gold Prize, Most Popular Female Newcomer (Gold prize) at the 2002 TVB Jade Solid Gold Best Ten Music Awards.\n\nKwan returned to the charts in 2003 with the duet \"Special Thanks\" 特別鳴謝 with Edwin Siu, reaching number one on RTHK and Metro Radio Pop Chart. She achieved her first all-kill with the single \"Specially Reserved\" 優先訂座. She released her third studio album \"Jade-3\" on April 16, 2003 and her fourth, \"Jade Forward\" in November. Kwan excelled again at year-end award shows, winning Metro Radio Hit Song with \"You Have Heart\", Most Improved Female Singer Bronze Prize and 4th Best Selling Singer of the Year at the 26th RTHK Top 10 Gold Song Awards. She also won Best Performance Silver Prize at the 2003 Four Stations Joint Music Awards.\n\nShe held her first major concert at the Hong Kong coliseum on February 20 and 21, titled Jade I Am Ready Concert, becoming the fastest artist to headline a Coliseum concert.\n\nIn efforts to promote Kwan for her concert, BMA Records gave Cable TV Hong Kong footage of Kwan's rehearsal in Japan, along with Cantonese interview footage. This sparked controversy with TVB, as the act was considered a breach of contract. Subsequently, all artistes under BMA Records management were banned from appearing on TVB programmes, which at the time was considered an important medium. Jade made a public apology, stating, \"I am a TVB contract artiste, perhaps the company [BMA Records] was negligent... I hope TVB will be lenient\". Kwan did not return to TVB music shows until June 2004. She released her first compilation album \"Jade Birthday Kit\" on August 18, 2004.\n\nMore controversy ensued when an internet rumour spread in November 2004, known as \"My Sister Got Fired\" (家姐被炒潮文), in which Kwan supposedly gotten a retail sales representative fired. Kwan repeatedly stated the story was false; however, her popularity decreased significantly. It also earned her the nickname \"Sister Kwan\". The controversy greatly overshadowed the release on her fifth studio album , \"The 5th Element,\" which was released January 7, 2005.\n\nKwan released her sixth studio album \"Jade Loves...\" on May 3, 2006. Three singles were released in support of the album: \"Chalk Letters\" 粉筆字 , \"Jade Band\" 玉石樂隊, \"The Adventures of Sanmao\" 三毛流浪記 . The first two singles each topped two radio stations in Hong Kong. She headlined a show on June 23 at the Kowloonbay International Trade & Exhibition Centre in support of the album.\n\n\"Lost & Found\" is Kwan's seventh studio album, released July 20, 2007. The album was formed accompanying a short film of the same name. The album was preceded by the release of \"Compass\" 指南針 and 送舊迎新. While radio play was moderate for the singles, the third plug \"How to Leave You\" 如何離開你 topped RTHK Song Chart within three weeks of release. The song earned Kwan Metro Radio Hit Song, Metro Radio Best Original Song, and Best Performance Silver Prize at the 2007 Jade Solid Gold Best Ten Music Awards Presentation, marking her first music awards in more than two years.\n\nKwan's eighth musical release (and her last one under BMA Records), \"Jade.i,\" was released on May 28, 2008. Singles \"Don't Forget Me\" 毋忘我 and \"21st Century Pompeii\" 龐貝‧21世紀 received strong airplay, the latter being Kwan's first rock-influenced song. The song won her Metro Radio Hit Song and Top 10 Song at the 2008 JSG Best Ten Music Awards—her first at the award show.\n\nAfter her contract with BMA ended in May 2009, Kwan focused her efforts on recording a Christian album. \"Shine\" was released under Jade Star Limited on September 21, containing 12 tracks. The album's first track \"The Beginning of a Generation\" 世代之初 (featuring MC Jin) was released to mainstream radio stations.\n\nKwan signed with Stars Shine International in 2010 and returned to the charts with the single \"Starting Over\", a Cantonese version of Liu Liyang's \"Present\". Her album \"A New Beginning\" was released October 11, 2010. A second single, \"Try Love Personally\" was released to critical success, with Kwan being praised for her vocal ability. She won Top 10 Song at the 33th RTHK Top 10 Gold Song Awards; Best Performance, Best Female Singer, and Hit Song at the 2010 Metro Radio Hit Music Awards. With Stars Shine International failing to obtain a date for a Hong Kong Coliseum concert for Kwan, she decided not to renew her contract after it ended in 2011. Kwan signed with Star Entertainment (a subsidiary of Neway Group) in the same year.\n\n\"Still\" 仍然 was released to radio stations in October 2011. The single reached number one on Metro Radio Hits Pop Chart, JSG Song Chart, and on RTHK. The song won Top 10 Song at the 2011 JSG Music Awards. On January 20, 2012, Kwan headlined her second Coliseum concert titled Jade Sings. Special guests included Chilam Cheung, Shirley Kwan, and the Grasshoppers. Kwan's first extended play, \"Still,\" was released the same day, containing four tracks, including the title track. The concert's theme song, \"Under Your Name\" 在你名下 was released to radio stations, reaching the same success as Kwan's previous single, topping three charts.\n\nOn September 30, 2012, Kwan was named as one the recipients of the 2012 Ten Outstanding Young Persons Selection, becoming the fifth Hong Kong female singer to receive the award. As promotion for her upcoming album, Kwan held a mini concert, Neway Music Live x Jade Kwan, on September 23. On October 12, she released the album \"Pause.\" The album contained six new tracks, and three from the previous EP. The single \"Lovelorn Philosophy\" 失戀哲理 topped the JSG Chart and the Metro Radio Hits Pop Chart. The song won Hit Song and Kwan won Best Female Singer at the 2012 Metro Radio Hit Music Awards. \"Lovelorn Philosophy\" also won Top 10 at the JSG Awards Show.\n\nAfter not receiving any recognition at the 35th RTHK Top 10 Gold Song Awards, Kwan posted on Sina Weibo that she was disappointed in music award shows, and that she will no longer attend award presentations. She stated: \"I will not give up music. I just don't plan on releasing more albums and decided not to play this game of award shows. Previously I said I would work hard for one more year because of my co-workers' and fans' support, but the result of working hard for a year disappointed everyone... I am too.\" She further stated that after completing her work on hand, she take a hiatus to try and start a family. In March 2013, Kwan and her label were in talks of renewing her contract. She stated, \"Mr. Sit [owner of Star Entertainment] treats me like a daughter, only telling me to sing well. I have no reason to say no.\"\n\nOn March 6, 2014, a music video was posted on YouTube under the account name C-12 for the song \" Abnormally Normal\", a song with heavy EDM influences. With all credits under the name C-12, netizens were left to guess who the singer was. At the end of the month another music video was posted for \"Chose a Way to Die\" 揀一個死法. Both songs were noted for their darker themes compared to mainstream Cantopop. On April 22, a press conference was held, revealing the singer to be Kwan, along with producer Carl Wong and lyricist Chan Wing Him. A new single, \"Guilt\" was released the same day. \"Guilt\" was noted for its daring music video, in which Kwan portrays the role of a mistress. The EP \"C-12\" was released June 3, with four tracks. Kwan stated that the project was experimental and done to illustrate societal problems.\n\nKwan returned with the track \"Resigned to Adversity\" under her own name. The song was received well by radio stations, topping the RTHK Chart and reaching top 3 for the three other major stations. On November 20, Kwan released her third greatest hits album \"Say New + Best Selections\". On November 28 and 29, Kwan headlined her Jade Kwan Concert 2014 (關心妍《說》演唱會) at the Kowloonbay International Trade & Exhibition Centre Star Hall. The concert was recorded and released in DVD format July 14, 2015.\n\nIn July 2015, the single \"Sister Kwan\" 關家姐 was released. The song talks about her view of the \"My Sister got Fired\" rumour after 11 years. Despite the song peaking only at number three on JSG Song Chart, the song won 2015 Jade Solid Gold Song. Kwan released \"Bank of Life\" 人生銀行; the single reached number one on Metro Radio and JSG. On October 31, 2015 Jade performed at Broadway Macau for the first time for her Jade Kwan Concert. On January 8, 2016 the single \"A Yazidi Girl Like Me\" was released. The song served as the theme song for the documentary \"Get Close to ISIS Victims.\" \"Heartless Man\", composed by singer-songwriter AGA was released in March 2016. She released the single \"Smile\" (lyrics and music by Cousin Fung and James Ng) on July 31, 2016 to commemorate the birth of her daughter. On August 10, 2016, the EP \"Smile\" was released digitally and as a 2-CD release.\n\nKwan took a hiatus from music in 2017, focusing on her charity and family.\n\nIn April 2019, it was announced that Kwan will be touring in China for the first time. The Touching Moment Concert tour kicked off on July 13 at the Zhongshan Memorial Hall in Guangzhou, China. In support of the tour, Kwan released the Mandarin single \"Moment\" 時刻.\n\nOn October 24, 2009, Kwan married long-time boyfriend Jonas Yeung in Bali. In February 2016, Kwan announced on her Facebook page that she was pregnant. She gave birth to a daughter, Jovia Yeung, on July 23, 2016.\n\nKwan is a Christian, and has been active in attending evangelical events.\n\nKwan headlined benefit concert Shining as Star \"妍\"亮生命音樂佈道會 at the Queen Elizabeth Stadium from September 10 to 12, fundraising for Christian Zheng Sheng College, a school for helping young drug offenders.\n\nIn October 2011, she was awarded the Hong Kong Volunteer Award.\nKwan established charitable foundation Shining Life Limited in early 2013.The foundation focuses on rehabilitation for drug addicts and youth.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829352", "title": "Alexis Soyer", "text": "Alexis Soyer\n\nAlexis Benoît Soyer (4 February 18105 August 1858) was a French chef who became the most celebrated cook in Victorian England. He also tried to alleviate suffering of the Irish poor in the Great Irish Famine (1845–1849), and contributed a penny for the relief of the poor for every copy sold of his pamphlet \"The Poor Man's Regenerator\" (1847). He worked to improve the food provided to British soldiers in the Crimean War. A variant of the field stove he invented at that time, known as the \"Soyer stove\", remained in use with the British army until 1982.\n\nAlexis Benoît (aka Bénoist) Soyer was born to Emery Roche Soyer and his wife, Marie Chamberlan, at Meaux-en-Brie in France. The family had arrived in Meaux in 1799, on the advice of a relative employed as a notary in the town and attracted by its reputation as a stronghold of the Huguenot, or French Calvinist, community.\n\nHis father had several jobs, one of them as a grocer. There is little concrete evidence of Soyer's early life but according to François Volant, later his secretary and biographer, Soyer was sent by his parents at the age of nine to the Protestant seminary, as they had destined him for the ordained ministry. Volant claims that Soyer resented the career path chosen for him and, after complaining to his parents, contrived his own dismissal. This cannot be entirely accurate, as his father died in Condé-Sainte-Libiaire, France, 20 August 1818. Alexis would be 8 years when his father died. Volant implicitly dates his expulsion from the seminary to 1820. Cowen points out that \"there are no surviving records of his enrolment in any school.\" A year later, in 1821, he was sent to Paris to live with his elder brother, Philippe. He became an apprentice at the restaurant of Georg Rignon in the Rue Vivienne, close to the Passage des Panoramas. Later, the \"Rignon\" moved west to the Boulevard des Italiens, very close to the Café Anglais. In 1826 Soyer left to join the \"Maison Douix\", an enormous restaurant further along the Boulevard des Italiens, where he became a chief cook within a year, heading a team of twelve, known as his Brigade of Cooks. By 1830, Soyer was a second cook to Jules, Prince de Polignac, who was the French prime minister under Charles X.\n\nOn 26July 1830, while assisting in the kitchens of Polignac, armed supporters of \"Les Trois Glorieuses\" burst in and shot two of the staff. Soyer escaped, and then fled to England where he joined the London household of Prince Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge, where his brother Philippe was head chef. He then worked for various other British notables. He moved in 1832 to work as \"sous-chef\" for Henry Beresford, 3rd Marquess of Waterford, a notorious drunk and brawler. He soon moved to the household of George Leveson-Gower, 2nd Marquess of Stafford and Elizabeth Sutherland, 19th Countess of Sutherland, who were to become Duke and Duchess of Sutherland in the following year, 1833. However, the Duke died in July of that year, leaving the family's London home, Stafford House as a base for his daughter-in-law, Harriet, a glamorous Whig hostess and promoter of liberal causes: she was to remain an important friend and supporter of Soyer throughout his life.\n\nSoyer remained in the employment of the Leveson-Gower family for only a short time, moving to take charge of the kitchens of William and Louisa Lloyd, who owned three large properties around Oswestry in north Shropshire: Aston Hall, Whittington Castle and Chigwell House. Soyer worked for the Lloyds for more than three years, becoming well known among the Shropshire landed gentry, who vied to lure him away from the Lloyds or, at least, to borrow his services for important occasions. During his employment with the Lloyds he decided to have his portrait painted by François Simonau, a Belgian painter and teacher. Through Simonau he met a pupil, Elizabeth Emma Jones, whom he was to marry in 1837. Soyer left the Lloyds in the spring of 1836 to take over the kitchens of Archibald Kennedy, 1st Marquess of Ailsa at St Margaret's House near Twickenham, a large Thames-side residence that subsequently gave its name to its entire suburb. Ailsa also had a central London base at Privy Gardens in Whitehall. A gourmet and a consistent supporter of Whig reforming legislation in the House of Lords, Ailsa was a prominent freemason and it is possible that it was he who introduced Soyer to the craft, which he pursued for the rest of his life. Ailsa took a very active interest in the kitchen, discussing menus in detail with Soyer, and was to remain a long-term friend. Soyer left Ailsa to take up a position as head chef of the Reform Club from 1837 to 1850, where he designed the innovative kitchens.\n\nHis wife, generally known simply as Emma Jones, achieved considerable popularity as a painter, chiefly of portraits. She was one of the youngest persons to exhibit at the Royal Academy; in 1823, at the age of 10, she submitted the \"Watercress Woman.\" Her portrait of Soyer was engraved by Henry Bryan Hall. She died in 1842 following complications suffered in a premature childbirth brought on by a thunderstorm. Distraught, Soyer erected a monument to her at Kensal Green Cemetery, London.\n\nSoyer died on 5 August 1858. At the time of his death, he was designing a mobile cooking carriage for the British Army. On 11 August, he was buried beside his wife in Kensal Green Cemetery.\n\nIn 1837 Soyer became \"chef de cuisine\" at the Reform Club in London. He designed the kitchens with Charles Barry at the newly built Club, where his salary was to be more than £1,000 a year. He instituted many innovations, including cooking with gas, refrigerators cooled by cold water, and ovens with adjustable temperatures. His kitchens were so famous that they were opened for conducted tours. When Queen Victoria was crowned on 28 June 1838, he prepared a breakfast for 2,000 people at the Club. Soyer's eponymous Lamb Cutlets Reform are still on the Club menu. Soyer was an able self-promoter. \"Soyer's Sultana's Sauce\" was marketed for him through Crosse & Blackwell in an exotic bottle with a label featuring Soyer himself, unmistakable in his trademark cocked hat.\n\nAt the same time Soyer was a social progressive. During the Great Irish Famine in April 1847, he invented a soup kitchen and was asked by the Government to go to Ireland to implement his idea. This was opened in Dublin and his \"famine soup\" was served to thousands of the poor for free. Unfortunately for the starving Irish, this selection by the Government was primarily based on low cost of the ingredients of the soups Soyer proposed, rather than on their nutritional value. While in Ireland he wrote \"Soyer's Charitable Cookery\". He gave the proceeds of the book to various charities. He also opened an art gallery in London, and donated the entrance fees to charity to feed the poor.\nIn 1849 Soyer began to market his \"magic stove\" which allowed people to cook food wherever they were. It was designed to be a tabletop stove.\n\nSoyer resigned from the Reform Club in May 1850. Knowing that the Great Exhibition was going to be staged he submitted a design for it, which was not accepted. The Reform Club member Joseph Patton was awarded the job for his Glass House. He had one of his friends, George Warrener, exhibit his Osmazone soup. He was also offered the drink and beverage franchise but turned it down. Instead he opened, in 1851, his \"Gastronomic Symposium of All Nations\" in Gore House opposite the gates of the Great Exhibition in Hyde Park, a site now occupied by the Royal Albert Hall. Prior to its grand opening on 17 May 1851, on 15 May a banquet was held to which every European newspaper had been invited. Later that year Soyer was forced to close his great venture after losing £7,000.\n\nSoyer wrote a number of books about cooking, possibly with assistance. His 1854 book \" A Shilling Cookery for the People\" was a recipe book for ordinary people who could not afford elaborate kitchen utensils or large amounts of exotic ingredients.\n\nDuring the Crimean War, Soyer joined the troops at his own expense to advise the army on cooking. Later he was paid his expenses and wages equivalent to those of a Brigadier-General. He reorganized the provisioning of the army hospitals. He designed his own field stove, the Soyer Stove, and trained and installed in every regiment the \"Regimental cook\" so that soldiers would get an adequate meal and not suffer from malnutrition or die of food poisoning. He wrote \"A Culinary Campaign\" as a record of his activities in the Crimea. Catering standards within the British Army would remain inconsistent, however, and there would not be a single Army Catering Corps until 1945. This is now part of the Royal Logistic Corps, whose catering HQ is called Soyer's House. His stove, or adaptions of it, remained in British military service as late as Gulf War One.\nSoyer returned to London on 3 May 1857 and on 18 March 1858, he lectured at the United Service Institution on army cooking. He also built a model kitchen at the Wellington Barracks in London.\n\nSoyer, his cooking, the kitchen at the Reform Club, and so on are setting for the murder mystery \"The Devil's Feast\", by M.J. Carter.\n\nBritish Army catering officers still hold an annual dinner at their new home in Worthy Down, Winchester. Army chefs usually design the menu using Soyer's old recipes. Sources include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829355", "title": "Adam Worth", "text": "Adam Worth\n\nAdam Worth (18448 January 1902) was a German-born American criminal. Scotland Yard Detective Robert Anderson nicknamed him \"the Napoleon of the criminal world\" (because of his short stature). He is widely considered the inspiration for Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's fictional criminal mastermind James Moriarty in the Sherlock Holmes series, whom Conan Doyle calls \"The Napoleon of Crime\".\n\nAdam Worth was born into a poor Jewish family somewhere in Germany. His original surname might have been \"Werth\". When he was five years old, his family moved to the United States and settled in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where Worth's father became a tailor. In 1854, Worth ran away from home and moved first to Boston and then, in 1860, to New York City. He worked as a clerk in a department store for one month.\n\nWhen the American Civil War broke out, Worth was 17. He lied about his age and enlisted in the Union army. Worth served in the 2nd New York Heavy Artillery, Battery L (later designated 34th New York Battery) and was promoted to sergeant in two months. He was wounded in the Second Battle of Bull Run on 30 August 1862 and shipped to a Georgetown Hospital in Washington, D.C. In the hospital, he learned he had been listed as killed in action and left.\n\nWorth became a bounty jumper, enlisting into various regiments under assumed names, receiving his bounty, and then deserting. When the Pinkerton Detective Agency began to track him, like many others using similar methods, he fled to New York City and went to Portsmouth.\n\nAfter the war, Worth became a pickpocket in New York. In time, he founded his own gang of pickpockets, and then began to organize robberies and heists. When he was caught stealing the cash box of an Adams Express wagon, he was sentenced to three years in Sing Sing prison. He soon escaped and resumed his criminal career.\n\nWorth began to work for the prominent fence and criminal organizer Fredericka \"Marm\" Mandelbaum. With her help, he expanded into bank and store robberies around 1866 and eventually began to plan his own heists. In 1869, he helped Mandelbaum break safecracker Charley Bullard out of the White Plains Jail, through a tunnel.\n\nWith Bullard, Worth robbed the vault of the Boylston National Bank in Boston on 20 November 1869, again through a tunnel, this time from a neighboring shop. The bank alerted the Pinkertons, who tracked the shipment of trunks Worth and Bullard had used to ship the loot to New York. Worth decided to move to Europe with Bullard.\n\nBullard and Worth went first to Liverpool. Bullard took the identity of \"Charles H. Wells\", a Texas oilman. Worth was financier \"Henry Judson Raymond\" – a name that he \"borrowed\" from the late founder editor of \"The New York Times\" and which he would use for years afterwards. They began to compete for the favors of a barmaid named Kitty Flynn, who eventually learned their true identities. She became Bullard's wife, but did not disfavor Worth. In October 1870, Kitty gave birth to a daughter, Lucy Adeleine, and seven years later had another daughter named Katherine Louise. The paternity of these two girls is left up to debate. It is possible that Kitty herself did not know, but Bullard and Worth claimed each child all the same. William Pinkerton (son of Allan Pinkerton and a detective with Pinkerton) believed Worth fathered both of Kitty's daughters.\n\nWhen the Bullards went on their honeymoon, Worth began to rob local pawnshops. He shared the loot with Bullard and Flynn when they came back, and together, the three moved to Paris in 1871.\n\nIn Paris, the police force was still in disarray after the events of the Paris Commune. Worth and his associates founded an \"American Bar\", a restaurant and bar on the ground floor, and a gambling den on the upper floor. Because gambling was illegal, the gambling tables were built so that they could be folded inside the walls and the floor. A buzzer would be sounded from downstairs to alert the customers before any police raid. Worth formed a new gang of associates, including some of his old comrades from New York.\n\nWhen William Pinkerton (by then president of the Pinkerton Detective Agency) visited the place in 1873, Worth recognized him. Later the Paris police raided the place numerous times, and Worth and the Bullards decided to abandon the restaurant. Worth used his place for the last time to defraud a diamond dealer, and the three moved to London.\n\nIn England, Worth and his associates bought Western Lodge at Clapham Common. He also leased an apartment in Mayfair and joined high society. He formed his own criminal network and organized major robberies and burglaries through several intermediaries. Those who worked in his schemes never knew his name. He insisted that his subordinates not use violence.\n\nEventually, Scotland Yard learned of Worth's network, though they were initially unable to prove anything. Inspector John Shore made Worth's capture his personal mission.\n\nThings began to go wrong when Worth's brother John was sent to cash a forged check in Paris, for which he was arrested and extradited to England. Worth managed to exonerate him and get him sent back to the United States. Four of his associates were arrested in Istanbul for spreading more forged letters of credit, and he had to use a considerable amount of money to buy off the judges and the police. Bullard became increasingly violent, as his alcoholism worsened, and he eventually left for New York, followed soon afterward by Kitty.\n\nIn 1876, Worth personally stole Thomas Gainsborough's recently rediscovered painting of Georgiana Cavendish, Duchess of Devonshire from a London gallery of Thomas Agnew & Sons with the help of two associates. He liked the painting and did not try to sell it. The two men who assisted in the robbery, Junka Phillips and Little Joe, grew impatient. Phillips tried to get him to talk about the theft in the presence of a police informer, and Worth effectively fired him. Worth gave Little Joe money to return to the United States, where he tried to rob the Union Trust Company, was arrested, and talked to the Pinkertons. They alerted Scotland Yard, but they still could not prove anything.\n\nWorth kept the painting with him even when he was traveling and organizing new schemes and robberies. Eventually, he traveled to South Africa, where he stole $500,000 worth of uncut diamonds. Back in London, he founded Wynert & Company, which sold diamonds at a lower price than its competitors.\n\nIn the 1880s, Worth married a Louise Margaret Boljahn, while still using the name Henry Raymond. They had a son Henry and a daughter Beatrice. It is possible his wife did not know his real identity. He smuggled the painting to the United States and left it there.\n\nIn 1892, Worth decided to visit Belgium, where Bullard was in jail. Bullard had been working with Max Shinburn (also Maximilian Schönbein), Worth's rival, when police captured them both. Worth had heard that Bullard had recently died.\n\nOn 5 October, Worth improvised a robbery of a money delivery cart in Liège with two untried associates, one of them the American Johnny Curtin. The robbery went badly, and the police captured Worth on the spot. The two others got away.\n\nIn jail, Worth refused to identify himself, and the Belgian police made inquiries abroad. Both the New York Police Department and Scotland Yard identified him as Worth, although the Pinkertons did not say anything. Max Shinburn, now in jail, told the police everything he knew. In jail, Worth heard nothing about his family in London, but received a letter from Kitty Flynn, who offered to finance his defense.\n\nWorth's trial took place on 20 March 1893. The prosecutor used everything he knew about Worth. Worth flatly denied that he had anything to do with various crimes, saying that the last robbery had been a stupid act he had committed out of a need for money. All the other accusations, including those by British and American police, were mere hearsay. He claimed that his wealth came out of legal gambling. In the end, Worth was sentenced to seven years for robbery and was sent to Leuven prison.\n\nDuring Worth's first year in jail, Shinburn hired other inmates to beat Worth up. Later, Worth heard that Johnny Curtin, who was supposed to have taken care of his wife, had seduced and abandoned her. She had gone insane and been committed to an asylum. The children were in the care of his brother John in the United States.\n\nWorth was released early for good behavior in 1897. He returned to London and stole £4,000 from a diamond shop to get funds. When he visited his wife in the asylum, she barely recognized him. He traveled to New York and visited his children. Then he proceeded to meet with William Pinkerton, to whom he described the events of his life in great detail. The manuscript that Pinkerton wrote after Worth left is still preserved in the archives of the Pinkerton Detective Agency in Van Nuys, California.\n\nThrough Pinkerton, Worth arranged the return of the painting \"Duchess of Devonshire\" to Agnew & Sons in return for $25,000. The portrait and payment were exchanged in Chicago on 28 March 1901. Worth returned to London with his children and spent the rest of his life with them. His son took advantage of an agreement between his father and Allan Pinkerton and became a career Pinkerton detective.\n\nAdam Worth died on 8 January 1902. He was buried in Highgate Cemetery in a mass pauper's grave under the name of \"Henry J. Raymond\". A small tombstone was erected to mark his resting place in 1997 by the Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation.\n\nAccording to Vincent Starrett, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle used Worth as the prototype for Sherlock Holmes' adversary, Professor Moriarty: \"The original of Moriarty was Adam Worth, who stole the famous Gainsborough, in 1876, and hid it for a quarter of a century. This was revealed by Sir Arthur in conversation with Dr Gray Chandler Briggs, some years ago.\"\n\nMichael Caine played Adam Worth in the film \"Harry and Walter Go to New York\" (1976). Though Worth is correctly portrayed as a criminal mastermind, the events of the story are not based on true events.\n\nIn the eighth season of the CBS series \"Criminal Minds\", Adam Worth is used as a pseudonym for the season's main villain, John Curtis (Mark Hamill).\n\nThe third season of the TNT series \"Leverage\" used Adam Worth as a target for the team.\n\nIn the SyFy series \"Sanctuary\" (2007), Adam Worth is one of the main villains, although his character is Irish and includes elements of Robert Louis Stevenson's \"Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" (1886).\n\n"}
{"id": "1829356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829356", "title": "Intermittent rhythmic delta activity", "text": "Intermittent rhythmic delta activity\n\nIntermittent rhythmic delta activity (IRDA) is a type of brain wave abnormality found in electroencephalograms (EEG).\n\nIt can be classified based on the area of brain it originates from:\n\nIt can also be\n\nIt can be caused by a number of different reasons, some benign, unknown reasons, but also are commonly associated with lesions, tumors, and encephalopathies. Association with periventricular white matter disease and cortical atrophy has been documented and they are more likely to show up during acute metabolic derangements such as uremia and hyperglycemia.\n"}
{"id": "1829357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829357", "title": "Mel Spillman", "text": "Mel Spillman\n\nMel Spillman (born 1948) is an American probate clerk and fraudster who transferred properties of dead people to his own accounts.\n\nSpillman lived in San Antonio, Texas. In the 1970s he was begun to work as a clerk in Bexar County courthouse. In the 1980s he began to work as a probate consultant in the medical examiner's office, handling funeral arrangements and other affairs of people who had died without heirs. His job was to sell off the property of the deceased and turn to proceeds over to the state. His coworkers knew him as a jovial man.\n\nSpillman lived in a lavish house and seemed fond of Ferraris. He bought five of them and raced in racing events all over the USA. He even started his own racing team and had his own Formula One racing car. He said that he had inherited money from dead relatives.\n\nIn fact, Spillman stole money from the estates of dead people. He forged documents and turned the estate over to himself. When he sold the remaining property of the deceased, he did not turn the proceeds over to the state but transferred to money to himself. Sometimes he took over the house of the deceased and put it up for rent. In couple of cases he defrauded the real heirs with forged wills. He might also claim antiques and other items from the deceased's home for himself.\n\nAccording to later police investigation, he began his forgeries around 1986. Over 15 years, Spillman stole over $5 million from estates of 122 people. His position was officially eliminated 1988 but he continued to do the job. Spillman retired 1999 but said he would continue his work as a private consultant.\n\nIn 2001 one of the probate judges notice that Spillman's name was listed on papers that could not be tracked through official channels. Other papers listed Spillman as a court administrator.\n\nSpillman was arrested in July 2002 in a sting operation when he left a bank with $900 from a liquidated estate. Investigators found records of the forged wills and defrauded estates in his home. They included real wills Spillman has ignored for his own benefit and papers and mementos from the estates he had drained.\n\nSpillman was charged with tampering with government records, impersonating a public servant and forgery. In 2002, he pleaded guilty to fraud and was sentenced to ten years in state prison. His sister also pleaded guilty in pillaging one estate. He was paroled in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829360", "title": "Krantz Films", "text": "Krantz Films\n\nKrantz Films, Inc. (KFI) was a production company headed by Steve Krantz. From 1966 to 1974, it produced animated cartoon shows such as \"The Marvel Superheroes\", \"Spider-Man\", \"Rocket Robin Hood\", \"The Wonderful Stories of Professor Kitzel\", and \"Max, the 2000-Year-Old Mouse\". \n\nIt also produced the films \"Fritz the Cat\", \"The Nine Lives of Fritz the Cat\" and \"Cooley High\", and two live-action television shows in Canada: \"The Weaker(?) Sex\" in 1968 and \"Strange Paradise\" in 1969. During production of the latter, the company was sold to cable system operator Vikoa, which later wound down the operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829361", "title": "Eugenio Lascorz", "text": "Eugenio Lascorz\n\nEugenio Lascorz y Labastida (26 March 1886 – 1 June 1962) was a Spanish attorney and lawyer who claimed to be a descendant of the medieval Laskaris family (believing his last name \"Lascorz\" to be a corruption of \"Laskaris\"), which had ruled the Byzantine Empire in Nicaea from 1204 to 1261. In 1917, he legally changed his name to Eugenio Láscaris-Comneno (typically shortened to Eugenio Láscaris). As the supposed titular Byzantine emperor, Eugenio used the regnal name Eugene II Lascaris Comnenus. In addition to his royal and imperial claims, Lascorz also claimed the titles \"Prince Porphyrogenitus\", Duke of Athens and Grand Master of the Constantinian Order of Saint George and a self-proclaimed order, the \"Order of Saint Eugene of Trebizond\".\n\nThough he practised law, Lascorz was also interested in history, especially that of Ancient Greece and Byzantium, and published several books, both fiction and non-fiction, exploring what he perceived to be the history of his ancestors. His life's work was his attempt to get his claims recognized and his desire to claim the throne of the Kingdom of Greece and restore the Byzantine Empire.\n\nEugenio Lascorz y Labastida was born in Zaragoza about 21:15 on 26 March 1886 and as per Spanish naming customs, took the surnames of both his parents, Manuel Lascorz y Serveto (born in 1849) and Carmen Labastida y Paschal (born in 1857). He was baptized two days after his birth in the parish church of Nuestra Señora del Pilar (meaning \"Our Lady of the Pillar\"). His paternal grandparents were the laborer Victorián Lascorz y Abad and Raimunda Serveto and his maternal grandparents were Manuel Labastida and Ramona Paschal. His great-grandfather (the father of Victorián) was a man by the name Alonso Lascorz y Cerdan.' The Lascorz family, and Eugenio's other ancestors, was of Basque (and not Greek) origin' and were likely part of a barrage of migrants who had arrived in Zaragoza in the third quarter of the 19th century.\n\nThe Lascorz family was wealthy and Eugenio's father Manuel had studied law and the Latin language and he was an important man in Zaragoza, working as the secretary of the local provincial deputation. Manuel and Carmen had three children, Eugenio being the youngest. His older siblings were Lorenzo (1877–1900) and Josefina (1881–1956). Both Eugenio and Lorenzo studied at the University of Zaragoza. Lorenzo studied medicine while Eugenio studied law. Tragically, Lorenzo died in 1900 at the age of just 22, and Eugenio became the \"heir\" to Manuel. Eugenio began his professional career as an attorney in 1917. When exactly Lascorz began his Byzantine claims is unclear, later family tradition claims that his father \"revealed\" their family history on his deathbed on 5 August 1906, proclaiming to Eugenio and Josefina that he was not just Manuel Lascorz y Serveto, but Prince Alexios Manuel Lascáris-Comneno, who had arrived with his father Prince Andronikos in Spain after fleeing from Ottoman persecution. Manuel's obituaries stated that he was a \"descendant and heir of the ancient Greek imperial family of the same surname, fleeing from the ruins of his homeland\".\n\nLascorz, possibly inspired by his father, believed that his last name was a corruption of \"Laskaris\", the name of a medieval Greek dynasty which had ruled the Byzantine Empire in Nicaea from 1204 to 1261. Explicitly proclaiming to restore the ancient glory of the Byzantine Empire, Lascorz was a proponent of the Greek Megali Idea (the Greek aspirations of conquering former Byzantine territory, including Constantinople, and restoring the borders of Byzantium). He embarked on a campaign of attempting to secure recognition of this descent through changing his legal identity by substituting \"Lascorz\" for \"Láscaris\" and seeking approval in Spanish courts. Lascorz also believed descent from the Laskarids could grant him a claim to the throne of the newly proclaimed Kingdom of Greece, an idea he dedicated the rest of his life to. Instead of Eugenio Lascorz, his new legal name was Eugenio Láscaris-Comneno (often shortened to Eugenio Láscaris). At the time, Greece was embroiled in somewhat of a succession crisis; social tension and the abdication of King Constantine I put the future of the ruling House of Glücksburg in doubt.\n\nIn 1923, Lascorz issued a manifesto to the Greek people, proclaiming himself \"Prince Eugene Lascaris Comnenus, heir to the Emperors of Byzantium and Pretender to the Throne of Greece\". In 1935 he created an elaborate and invented genealogy, which notably altered his own familial history. His grandfather Victoriano was substituted for the \"Prince Andronikos Theodore Laskaris\" supposedly described by his father on his deathbed. Eugenio's great-grandgather Alonso was substituted for a \"Prince Theodore Laskaris, Porphyrogenitus\". In the 1940s and 1950s, Lascorz undertook a series of efforts in an attempt to strengthen his imperial claim. In 1946, he attempted to expand his \"Sovereign and Imperial Order of Constantine the Great\" and his own order of Saint Helena into international organizations. In 1948, Lascorz began publishing his own magazine, \"Parthenon\", with the Asociación Cultural Greco-Española (the Greco-Spanish Cultural Association, an organization based in Madrid) and on 15 September 1950 he founded the \"International Philo Byzantine Academy and University\" (IPHBAU), a \"cultural extension\" of his self-proclaimed chivalric orders, which also had its own magazine.\n\nHis first genealogy was contradicted by later genealogies in 1947 and 1952, which again changed the names of Eugenio's ancestors, added more supposed \"princes\" and altered their relationships. The 1952 version of the genealogy, the first to refer to Eugenio's father as \"Alexios Manuel\", explicitly contradicts Eugenio's earlier versions, which he had attempted to get approved by Spanish courts. Lascorz obtained \"recognition\" by several courts in Italy, though these courts did not investigate Eugenio's claims, nor did they have the competence or authority to proclaim someone as a claimant to the throne of the Byzantine Empire or the Kingdom of Greece. Lascorz married a woman by the name Nicasia Justa Micolau y Traver Blasco y Margell and had several children, all of which received names of ancient Byzantine royalty, such as Teodoro, Constantino, Alejandro and Juan Arcadio.\n\nThough Lascorz made no intellectual contributions to the legal world during his years as an attorney and lawyer (instead spending his working years doing practical tasks and working), he was devoted to studying Ancient Greece and Byzantium, writing several books on Greek history. Lascorz's \"Byzantine\" publications were not limited to historical works. As soon as he had moved to Madrid in 1943, Lascorz published the work \"Calígrafia grieca y byzantina\" (\"Greek and Byzantine Calligraphy\"), a collection of calligraphy exercises, beginning with tracing and then moving on to reproductions of real ancient Greek and Byzantine initials, manuscripts and signatures. In 1956, Lascorz published \"Caliniki: Evocación histórica\", a short story centering on a fictional Lacaedaemonian girl called Cali Cabasileas from the time of the emperor \"Manuel Cantacuzeno\" who falls in love with Andrónico, a courtier of the emperor.\n\nThere were many who supported Lascorz's dynastic claims. Among his most notable supporters was Norberto de Castro y Tosi, a Costa Rican professor and personal friend of Eugenio who in 1989 published a biography on him, titled \"Eugenio II, un príncipe de Byzancio\" (\"Eugene II, a prince of Byzantium\"). Castro's biography was very favorable to Lascorz, leaving out many episodes which might have caused controversy, such as the role Lascorz played during the regime of Spanish dictator Francisco Franco (as a military judge). In 1952, Lascorz had granted Castro the title of Marquess of Barzala.\n\nIn 1953 and 1954, Lascorz and his family were the focus of the \"\"Hidalguía\" controversy\", a series of articles in Spanish magazines, including one called \"Hidalguía\", which saw him publicly identified as a forger and, as a result, becoming socially stigmatized. The controversy had its roots in a campaign begun by the Holy See in Rome in 1952 against what the Papacy saw as false religious orders. This campaign had become highly publicized in the Spanish media by 1953, during the time when negotiations between the Papacy and the Spanish government were approaching an end. Since Lascorz was at the head of several orders and organizations which could easily be included in what the Vatican perceived as false, he repeatedly aroused misgivings from the Spanish government and authorities. On 23 April 1953, an article in the \"ABC\" newspaper called \"Falsas órdenes de caballería y falsos títulos nobiliarios\" (\"False chivalric orders and false titles of nobility\") identified Lascorz as a forger and his orders and institutions as fake, stating that Lascorz violated \"not only the principles of Church law, but also the sovereignty of the Spanish state\". In later issues the newspaper also published and rebuked Lascorz's responses to the article, pointing out that his orders had not been approved by the Spanish government.\n\nMore damaging than the \"ABC\" articles were articles published early in 1954 in \"Hidalguía\" which denounced and debunked Lascorz's claims, sometimes in a somewhat humorous tone. The author of these articles, José María Palacio, wrote that Lascorz had used his knowledge of the legal system and the complicity or ignorance of certain key people to carry out legal deceptions and falsifications in order to transform his identity and insert himself as a descendant of the Laskaris dynasty. Palacio furthermore (correctly) suggested that the end goal of this plan was to gain the throne of Greece. On 13 March that same year, the Lascorz family responded through an interview with Teodoro (Eugenio's oldest son and then the speaker of the family due to Eugenio's advanced age) in the daily newspaper in Madrid, in which it was claimed that Palacio was an \"old enemy\" of their family and was actively attempting to \"persecute\" them.\n\nAs a result of the controversy, any texts discussing Eugenio Lascorz and his family in the 1950s were either completely in their favor, or completely against them, the latter being more common.\n\nLascorz died in Madrid on 1 June 1962. Eugenio's children continued to maintain his claims and his self-proclaimed chivalric orders and his descendants, the Láscaris or Láscaris-Comneno family, survive to this day. Many of his children chose to leave Spain due to being exhausted by the controversies the family became embroiled in. His heir as \"titular emperor\" was his oldest son, Teodoro Láscaris-Comneno (27 October 1921 – 20 September 2006), who moved across the Atlantic. Though Teodoro maintained the legitimacy of his father's (and his own) claims, he was more concerned with researching law, history and philosophy and maintaining the orders of Constantine the Great and Saint Helene than he was in pressing the invented claim to the throne of the Kingdom of Greece.\n\nTeodoro took the \"regnal\" name \"Theodore IX\" Lascaris Comnenus (Theodore III–VIII being invented ancestors throughout Eugenio's genealogy), lived in Venezuela and propagated the idea that the Americas represent \"New Byzantium\"; where Christian faith, Western thought and Greek civilization will continue to survive.' Teodoro's son Eugenio (born on 10 October 1975), or \"Eugene III\" Theodore Emmanuel Lascaris Comnenus, maintains his family's claims.'\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829364", "title": "Georgi Kitov", "text": "Georgi Kitov\n\nGeorgi Kitov (Bulgarian: Георги Китов) (March 1, 1943 – September 14, 2008) was a Bulgarian archaeologist and thracologist. He specialized in Thracian archaeology. He participated in the excavations of many sites including the Alexandrovo Tomb, Kosmatka, Svetitzata and Starosel Cult Complex.\n\nKitov died from a heart attack on September 14, 2008 during excavations in Starosel, Bulgaria.\n\nOn August 19, 2004 Kitov discovered a gold mask in a 5th-century BC burial mound outside the town of Shipka in a place he later named Golyamata Kosmatka. On September 21 he began an excavation of the mound with 12 others, including private security guards, and soon unearthed a large bronze head. Three days later he found the entrance of a tomb.\n\nInstead of the more usual archaeological methods, Kitov used three large earthmoving machines. He claimed that he had to work quickly to deter looters. On October 4 Kitov and his team found a large marble door. Later that night they entered a chamber with a sarcophagus and a large amount of golden objects.\n\nAccording to Kitov's later account, he informed the police in Kazanluk to ask for help of couple of police officers to help the take the treasure to his headquarters in a local hotel. Police sent 50 men and a local prosecutor—according to their later report, they were suspicious because the team intended to move the artifacts in the middle of the night.\n\nPolice officers proceeded to frisk everyone when they came from the tomb in case they were trying to smuggle out valuables. When the police demanded that the treasure be taken to the local police station, Kitov refused. Both groups spent the whole night outside the mound until the police escorted the team and the artifacts to their hotel the next morning. Apparent police overkill caused lots of public amusement.\n\nHe rarely bothered to document or analyze the artifacts he fоund. He began to publish his findings only after several other archaeologists criticised him in public. He excavated the digs in a hurried manner, using heavy machinery.The quality of his scholarship, his business ethics, his self-promotion and his associations with people suspected of looting and selling antiquities were issues on which he was criticized.\n\nIn February 2001, the National Archaeological Institute and Museum censured him for excavating sites without permission and took away his authorization to lead expeditions for a year. Later the same year, they expelled Kitov from his post as a Thracian section.\n\nKitov was the author or co-author of about 17 books of which the following are available in English:\n"}
{"id": "1829370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829370", "title": "Tentsmuir Forest", "text": "Tentsmuir Forest\n\nTentsmuir Forest is in north east Fife, Scotland. Covering some , the forest was originally sand dunes and moorland before acquisition by the Forestry Commission in the 1920s. The forest consists mainly of Scots pine and Corsican pine. Forestry and Land Scotland, successor body to the Forestry Commission, still owns the forest.\nTentsmuir is a key geomorphological site for the study of active beach and coastal processes, in particular those associated with coastal progradation (shoreline building out seawards). The site supports an extensive and relatively undisturbed area of intertidal sand, mudflats and rapidly accreting lime-poor dunes. There are complete sequences of sand dune and slack communities from strandline, saltmarsh, accreting “yellow” dunes, fixed “grey dunes” to lichen rich dune heath, dune slack and dune slack woodland. Associated with these habitats are a large number of plant and invertebrate species including many of national or regional importance.\n\nThe intertidal flats regularly support large concentrations of passage or wintering waterfowl and waders. Three species have been recorded at nationally important numbers (between 2004 and 2009). There were eider (11.45% of the UK population), bar-tailed godwit (1.93%) and goosander (1.04%).\n\nThe outer sandflats are also a haul-out site for both common and grey seals.\n\nTentsmuir is notable for the many concrete blocks known as 'Dragon's Teeth' distributed along the shoreline, which acted as coastal defence against landing craft during World War II. The nearby RAF Leuchars base means that military aircraft are often seen (and heard), but aviation links go back to 1911 with the setting up of a Royal Engineers training camp. During World War II, troops of the Polish Army were based here to staff the coastal defences.\n\nAlso of interest is a 19th-century icehouse, historically used to store salmon but now an important artificial bat roost.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829374", "title": "Leonid Moiseyev", "text": "Leonid Moiseyev\n\nLeonid Petrovich Moiseyev () (born 1948 in Vladivostok) is a Russian diplomat.\n\nEducated at the Moscow Institute of International Relations, Moiseyev has been a member of first the Soviet and then the Russian diplomatic service since 1973. He has served mainly in the People's Republic of China (he is fluent in Chinese) and Japan.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2001 Moiseev was first Deputy Director and then Director of the First Asian Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, dealing with issues relating to China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea and Mongolia, and was also a Member of the Collegium of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.\n\nMoiseyev was the Ambassador of Russia to Australia from 20 July 2001 to 10 November 2005, and the ambassador to Singapore between 2011 and 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829375", "title": "Ovitz family", "text": "Ovitz family\n\nThe Ovitz family was a family of Hungarian Jewish actors/traveling musicians originating from present Romania, who survived imprisonment at the Auschwitz concentration camp during World War II. Most of them were dwarfs. They were the largest family of dwarfs ever recorded and were the largest family to enter Auschwitz and survive intact; the family of twelve ranged from a 15-month-old baby to a 58-year-old woman.\n\nThe Ovitz family originated from Maramureș County, Romania. They were descended from Shimson Eizik Ovitz (1868–1923), a \"badchen\" entertainer, itinerant rabbi and himself a dwarf. He fathered ten children in total, seven of them dwarfs (born with pseudoachondroplasia), from two marriages.\n\nThe children from his first marriage to Brana Fruchter (she was of average height), Rozika (1886–1984) and Franzika (1889–1980), were both dwarfs. Shimson's second wife, Batia Bertha Husz, also of average height, produced the following children: Avram (1903–1972; dwarf), Freida (1905–1975; dwarf), Sarah (1907–1993; average height), Micki (1909–1972; dwarf), Leah (1911-1987; average height), Elizabeth (1914–1992; dwarf), Arie (1917–1944; average height), and Piroska (a.k.a. \"Perla\"; 1921–2001; dwarf).\n\nThe children founded their own ensemble, the \"Lilliput Troupe\". They sang and played music using small instruments and performed all over Romania, Hungary and Czechoslovakia in the 1930s and 1940s. The taller relatives helped backstage. The Ovitzes sang in Yiddish, Hungarian, Romanian, Russian and German. When they were not touring, they lived in a single house with their spouses.\n\nAt the start of World War II, there were 12 family members, seven of them dwarfs. When Hungary seized Northern Transylvania in September 1940, the new racial laws banned Jewish artists from entertaining non-Jews. Though the Ovitzes were observant Jews, they obtained papers which omitted the fact that they were Jewish and continued going on their tours until 1944. On 12 May 1944, all twelve family members were deported to Auschwitz. One average sized brother, Arie, escaped the round up but was later arrested and executed in 1944.\n\nOnce in the camp, the Ovitzes attracted the attention of the German camp doctor Josef Mengele (known as the \"Angel of Death\"), who collected curiosities for pseudoscientific experiments on heredity. He separated the Ovitzes from the rest of the camp inmates to add them to his collection of test subjects. He was curious about the fact that the family included both dwarfs and taller members. Eleven other prisoners claimed to be their relatives, and Mengele moved all of them accordingly.\n\nWanting to spare the group of dwarfs (because they were harder to find than other kinds of test subjects, such as twins), Mengele arranged to have special living quarters built for them, so they could be monitored. To keep them healthy for his human experimentation, he arranged for them to have more hygienic living conditions, better food and their own bedclothes. Mengele allowed them to keep their own clothes, and forced the taller members of the group to carry the dwarfs to the experimentation sites.\n\nThe Ovitzes—like many other camp inmates—were subjected to various tests. Mengele's physicians extracted bone marrow and pulled out teeth and hair to find signs of hereditary disease. They poured hot and cold water in their ears and blinded them with chemical drops. Gynecologists inspected the married women. \n\nEighteen-month-old Shimshon Ovitz was put through the worst ordeals because he had taller parents and was prematurely born; Mengele drew blood from the veins behind his ears and from his fingers on a daily basis often causing weakness. The Ovitzes also witnessed two newcomer dwarfs being killed and boiled so their bones could be exhibited in a museum. Mengele also filmed them; this film was not found after the war, and it is possible that he kept it when he fled.\n\nThey expected to be killed after Mengele had finished his experiments, but they lived to see the liberation of Auschwitz on 27 January 1945. The Red Army took them to the Soviet Union where they lived in a refugee camp for some time before they were released.\n\nThe Ovitzes traveled on foot for seven months to their home village. They found their home looted and moved, first to the town of Sighet and later to Belgium. In May 1949 they immigrated to Israel, settled in Haifa, and began their tours again, being quite successful and packing large concert halls. In 1955 they retired and bought a cinema hall.\n\nDescendants of the dwarf men of the family were born taller; the women did not become pregnant due to their small pelvises. The firstborn of the dwarfs, Rozika Ovitz, died in 1984 at the age of 98. The last adult dwarf survivor of the family, Perla Ovitz, died in 2001.\n\nIn March 2013 Warwick Davis presented an episode of the ITV series \"Perspectives\", entitled \"Warwick Davis - The Seven Dwarfs of Auschwitz\". He explored the historical story of the Ovitz family, including an interview with Perla Ovitz recorded in 1999 recounting how they survived the Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz and Mengele's experiments. The interview from the film comes from a documentary, \"Liebe Perla\" (German for \"Dear Perla\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829378", "title": "Unaizah", "text": "Unaizah\n\nUnaizah ( ) or officially The Governorate of Unaizah (also spelled Onaizah, Onizah, or Unayzah; ) is a Saudi Arabian city in the Al Qassim Province. It lies south of the province capital Buraydah and north of Riyadh, the capital of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It is the second largest city in Al-Qassim Province with a population of 163,729 (2010 census).\n\nHistorically, Unaizah was an important stopping point for Muslim pilgrims coming from Mesopotamia (now Iraq) and Persia (now Iran) on their way to Makkah. Many scientists and historians believe that Unaizah was inhabited hundreds of years before the spread of Islam, citing its reference in numerous poems from some of the most important poets of pre-Islamic Arabia such as Imru' al-Qais.\n\nUnaizah is in the south of Al-Qassim Province and at the heart of the historical region of Najd. It is located roughly 30 kilometers from Buraydah (the capital of the province) and more than 300 kilometers north of the Saudi capital, Riyadh. Unaizah lies in the northern-central region of the Najd and to the south of the Wadi al-Rummah (Rumma Valley), which is the longest valley on the Arabian peninsula. It is surrounded by sand dunes to its north and west, which are known locally as the Al-Ghamis Sands. The Al-Ghadha Woods are located to the north of the city. Next to Unaizah is the Al-Aushaziyah salt lake (or Sabkha), which is considered an official part of the city.\n\nUnaizah has a hot desert climate (Köppen Climate Classification BWh), with long, extremely hot summers and short, very mild winters. The average high temperature in August is 43.6 °C (110.5 °F). The city experiences very little precipitation, especially in summer, but receives a fair amount of rain in March and April. It is also known to have dust storms during which the dust can be so thick that visibility is under 10 m (33 ft).\n\nUnaizah is an agricultural area and produces wheat and barley of various strains. The region also grows grapes, grapefruits, lemons, leeks, mandarins, oranges, pomegranates and dates.\n\nLeeks (kurrat) are a very important part of the local culture of Unaizah. They are popular among the locals and comprise a significant portion of the local agricultural industry.\n\nAn annual Date Season Festival has been held in September since the early 2000s, giving Unaizah the distinction of hosting the second largest date festival in the Persian Gulf and the Middle East. The festival rivals the date festival of neighboring Buraydah's, which is sometimes known as \"Buraydah, the City of Dates\".\n\nUnaizah's 2008 (4th) annual Date Festival was known as the \"Unaizah International Date Festival\", though the city's title \"Unaizah, the Kingdom of Dates\" was retained as a motto. Many people from different places of the Middle East come to see this festival and buy dates because they know there is a good quality of dates.\n\nUnaizah is home to some pioneers in education; the first Saudi person from Al-Qassim Province to earn a PhD. degree was from Unaizah, and his name was Dr. Abdulaziz Al-Khowaiter. The first Saudi female from Al Qassim Province to earn a PhD degree was also raised in this city. Her name was Dr. Ebtisam Al Bassam.\n\nOne of the first cities to embrace female education in Al-Qassim Province and Najd was Unaizah. It faced resistance from neighboring provinces and brought Unaizah at the forefront of a national debate. After lengthy negotiations, the capital city of Qassim, Buraidah a sister city of Unaizah, officially recognized the right of an education for females, partly due to King Abdulaziz's interference in settling the dispute.\n\nToday, there are many public schools in Unaizah for all three educational levels (primary, intermediate, and secondary). There are also two private schools and one private international school. There is also a boys' technological secondary school in the city and a technological college, as well as a girls' educational college. Qassim University is located approximately 30 kilometers north of the city, and enrolls both males and females.\n\nThe people of Unaizah are well known for their hospitality and acceptance for people from other races and religions. The famous Charles Montagu Doughty lived in the city during his odyssey and wrote highly about the city.\n\nAmin al-Rihani (the famous Franco-Lebanese scholar and traveler) spoke highly of the city's architecture and works of art in his book \"Kings of Arabia\" likening it to Paris thereby coining the nickname \"Paris of Najd\" for the city.\n\nThere are twelve tourist festivals and activities recognized by the Saudi Commission for Tourism & Antiquities, and a calendar has been made for these events.\n\nThe tourist attractions in Unaizah range from festivals to private meetings in family ranches. Some of the most notable venues in which festivals are held are the following:\n\n\nThere are five hotels in Unaizah, two of which are currently under construction, in addition to the rental apartments and suites distributed all around the city:\n\n\nAlthough Unaizah is thought to be relatively more accepting of visitors than its neighbors, its tourism industry faces criticism for a number of reasons. One such criticism is its disregard for infrastructure maintenance.\n\nAll of the Saudi citizens of Unaizah are Sunni Muslim with a small minority of Dharmic religions, (mostly Hinduism) brought and practiced in the city by Asian workers (mainly Indians). As the rest of Saudi Arabian cities, non-Islamic worship houses are not allowed. \nThe majority of the city's inhabitants are socially conservative. One of Saudi Arabia's leading religious clerics Muhammad ibn al Uthaymeen was a student of the late Sheikh Abd ar-Rahman ibn Nasir as-Sa'di, an Unaizah native. Muhammad ibn al Uthaymeen himself was born and raised in Unaizah. He lived in Unaizah until he died, where many mosques have been built and named after him.\n\nThe Qassimi cuisine in general, and the cuisine of Unaizah is very famous for its delicious food, and for its renowned and tasty traditional meals such as \"Jereesh\", \"Margoug\", \"Gersan\", and \"Metazeez\".\n\nAs for sweets, along with other Qassimi sweets, the Qassimi Kleeja is a well-known sweet all over Saudi Arabia and other Arab states of the Persian Gulf.\n\nLike other Saudi cities, the Najdi Kabsa is the most traditional lunch. The Yemeni Mandi is also popular as a lunch meal.\n\nWestern origin junk foodis also popular in the city. McDonald's, Subway, Starbucks, Domino's Pizza, Herfy, Pizza Hut, Pizza Inn, Little Caesars, Hardee's, and KFC among others are widely distributed in Unaizah.\n\nUnaizah is very active in terms of sports. Football is the most popular sport all over Saudi Arabia, and it is very popular in Unaizah, it is played in school's P.E. (i.e. Physical Education) lessons, and it is common to see a group of kids playing it in the streets.\n\nThere are two local clubs in Unaizah, the Saudi \"Al Najmah club\", and the \"Al Arabi club\".\n\nThe city has experienced very high rates of population growth. Unaizah officially counted population in the city limits in 2010 was 163,729.\n\nUnaizah is served by six major Arabic-language newspapers, \"Al Jazeera\", \"Alriyadh\", \"Okaz\", \"Al Watan\", \"Al Hayat\", \"Al Yaum\", as well as one English-language newspaper, . Unaizah has one local magazine, that issues every four months, it is called \"Paris Najd\", named after the widest spread nickname of Unaizah. In addition to many other national and international magazines distributed everywhere in the city's markets.\n\nTelevision stations serving the city area include Saudi TV1, Saudi TV2, Saudi TV Sports, Al Ekhbariyah, ART channels network and hundreds of cable, satellite and other specialty television providers.\n\nThe city has been ruled by the Al Sulaim family since 1818. They came to power when Prince Yehya Al-Sulaim in 1822 killed the governor appointed by the Ottoman emperor, Abdullah Al-Jamei. This dynasty still rules the city according to a written treaty between them and the Saudi royal family. Some of the most famous families in Saudi Arabia originate from Unaizah, including Al Juffali, Al Ohaly, AlGarawi, Al Ghothami, Al Hatlani, Al Ghumayz, Al Sulaiman, Al Hamdan, Al Akeel, Al Fadl, Al Tamimi, Al Zamil, Al Olayan, Al Bassam, Al Gadhi, Al Matrody, Al Salloum, Al Saheel, Al Subaiee, Al Senany, Al Mansour, Al Yahya, Al Thukair, Al Turki, Aldubayan, Al Shoshan, Al Shubaili, Al Shebel, Al Damigh, Al Othaimeen, Al Malloohi, Al Marzooki, Al Manei, Al Se'di, Al Abeeki, Al Dabibi, Al Khwaiter, Al Sowayil, Al Daffaa, Al Jaffali, Al Dukhayyel, Al Dakheel, Al Abdeli, Al Suhaimi, families and many others.\n\n\nUnaizah is well known for its hospitality, hence, there are a variety of tourism Festivals in the year. These include dates, and healthy crops festivals. There is also a bi-annual cultural festival which is a trademark for this city.\nIt was the only city of the Najd region to invite a Saudi Shiite cleric to speak in a public event, in a grass-roots effort to promote a united national identity. This drew criticism from conservatives in neighboring cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829382", "title": "Great Gold Robbery", "text": "Great Gold Robbery\n\nThe Great Gold Robbery took place on the night of 15 May 1855, when three London firms each sent a box of gold bars and coins from London Bridge station for Paris via the South Eastern Railway.\n\nA total of weight of gold, worth around £12,000 (equal to £ in ) was stolen en route to Folkestone, from where the gold was to be shipped across the English Channel to Boulogne.\n\nOn the night of 15 May 1855, three boxes containing gold belonging to Abell and Co., Spielmann, and were delivered by a firm of carriers to the South Eastern Railway at London Bridge station where they were put aboard the guard's van.\n\nThe boxes were sealed and bound with iron bars and were placed in safes secured by Chubb locks. The duplicate keys to the safes were held by confidential servants of the railway company in London and Folkestone by the captains of the South Eastern railway's boats.\n\nWhen the boxes were taken out of the safes at Boulogne and weighed, it was discovered that one weighed less than it should have, while the other two each weighed a little more. Despite this discrepancy, the boxes were transferred to a train for Paris. Upon arrival in Paris they were weighed again and when they were opened, it was discovered that lead shot had been substituted for the gold. It was clear that the robbery had not taken place between Paris and Boulogne due to the weights corresponding.\n\nInquiries were made as soon as the news of the robbery came from Paris to discover where the robbery had been carried out. Initial press reports stated that \"it is supposed that so well-planned a scheme could not have been executed in the rapid passage by railway from London to Folkestone.\" However, after an investigation it was concluded that it could not have taken place at Folkestone or aboard the cross-Channel boat, or prior to the arrival of the boxes at London Bridge station, and therefore must have taken place aboard the train.\n\nFour police forces in Britain and France made extensive inquiries for months and arrested hundreds of suspects for questioning but found nothing. Afterwards many of those who had handled the boxes reported small discrepancies like holes and broken seals. The main suspects were railway staff members at Folkestone. The South Eastern Railway offered a sizeable reward and named its own investigator but received only false information. The official British theory was that the robbery had taken place on the continent, while the French police claimed it had happened in England because of the discrepancy in the boxes' weights at Boulogne.\n\nIn August 1855 Edward Agar, a professional criminal and associate of crooked barrister James Townsend Saward, was arrested for passing a false cheque; in fact, he had been set up by a rival. Agar was sentenced for penal transportation to Australia for life, and meanwhile sent to Pentonville prison. From prison Agar wrote to Fanny Kay, mother of his illegitimate child, and mentioned that William Pierce, a former railway employee, was supposed to have paid her £7,000 (equal to £ in ). Pierce, in fact, had given her no money.\n\nKay grew suspicious and in the summer of 1856 visited the governor of Newgate prison. The governor contacted Mr Rees, the investigator for the railway company, and took her to see him. When Kay told Rees about the money, he went to see Agar who, at the time, was in a prison hulk at Portland. When Agar heard what had happened, he decided to tell Rees what had happened and eventually described the robbery at length.\n\nAgar had met Pierce years earlier when Pierce had worked as a ticket printer for the railway company. When Agar returned to England after some time in Australia and America, he met Pierce again and they discussed the possibility of stealing some of the gold frequently shipped between London and Paris on the South Eastern railway. Pierce appears to have been the originator of the plan, and suggested that he could get hold of impressions of the keys to the safes which protected the gold. He was assisted by his associate, railway guard James Burgess.\n\nPierce and Agar travelled to Folkestone to watch the delivery of the luggage, and make their plans, and attracted the suspicion of the police and the railway authorities with their observation of the booking clerks and the luggage porters. They separated, Pierce returning to London, and Agar remaining behind, where he managed to discover where the key to the bullion safe was kept, though he despaired of ever managing to get hold of it.\n\nPierce decided to recruit one William George Tester, who was a clerk in the railway superintendent's office. In July or August Pierce discovered that the safe locks were to be returned to Chubb for alterations and Agar was informed that Tester would briefly have the new keys in his possession after this was done. The new safe had two locks, with different keys, Chubb at first sending only one key to each safe. Tester took these keys to Agar, who made an impression of them in wax.\n\nThe difficulty now was to get an impression of the safe's second key. In October 1851 Agar arranged to have a box of bullion worth £200 (equal to £ in ) sent on the train to Folkestone, where he would collect it under an assumed name. Agar watched as the safe was opened by a clerk using a key taken from a cupboard. He and Pierce then met in Folkestone where Pierce took advantage of the absence of the booking clerks from the office to simply walk in, and take the safe key from the cupboard – which had been left with its key in the lock – and hand it to Agar, who made a wax impression, then returned it to where he had found it.\n\nHaving made duplicate keys from the impressions, Agar travelled down to Folkestone several times in the guard's van with Burgess, to test the keys and adjust them until they fitted the safe's locks.\n\nThe conspirators decided not to steal any bullion until a good haul could be made. In the meantime they prepared for their robbery by obtaining lead shot equal in weight to the gold which was to be stolen, so as to delay discovery of the theft, preparing of shot equal to what £12,000 of gold would weigh. They divided the shot for easier handling, placing some in carpet bags and some in courier bags, which could be carried on their person and hidden by a cloak.\n\nFinally, on 15 May 1855, Tester met Agar at the station, and told him it was \"all right\". Agar and Pierce drove to the station dressed as gentlemen and bought first-class tickets for Folkestone. They gave their carpet bags of lead shot to a porter, who in turn gave them to the guard, Burgess, who put them in his van. Agar boarded the guard's van with Burgess, while Pierce got into a first-class carriage.\n\nAs soon as the train began to move, Agar opened the safe and found the three bullion boxes. He removed the iron bands from one of the boxes using a mallet and chisel, took out the gold bars and substituted lead shot, then replaced the bands and replaced the box's wax seal with a wax taper and an ordinary seal.\n\nIt had been arranged beforehand that when the train halted at Redhill Tester should relieve Agar and Pierce of a share of the gold and at that station a bar of gold was placed in a black bag which Tester had brought. In the confusion of the train stopping and starting off again, Pierce got into the van with Agar and Burgess and when it had set off again they opened up a second box. The third and final box contained small bars of Californian gold. Pierce and Agar could not take all of this but took a large portion of it, substituting lead shot as before.\n\nWhen the train arrived at Folkestone the boxes were unloaded; Burgess, Pierce, and Tester carried on to Dover on the train. At Dover they took their carpet bags from the guard's van and proceeded to the Dover Castle Inn, where they ordered refreshments before returning to London by train.\n\nIn the following weeks, Agar and Pierce melted down the gold and sold some of it. Burgess received £700 (equal to £ in ) and others £600 (equal to £ in ). When Agar was arrested, Pierce buried some of the gold in the pantry under the front steps of his house.\n\nFanny Kay was taken to lodge in the house of police inspector Thorton for safekeeping. Further investigation corroborated Agar's story. Rees recovered gold worth £2,000 (equal to £ in ). Some railway employees Agar had dealt with recognised him.\n\nWilliam Pierce, Jeremy Forsyth, and James Burgess were arrested in London in November 1856. William Tester, who had left to work as a general manager for Swedish Railways, was arrested when he visited relatives in England.\n\nThe trial at the Old Bailey began on 10 January 1857. The main witnesses were Agar and Kay. On 12 January Burgess and Tester were sentenced to penal transportation for 14 years. Pierce received two years for larceny with periodical solitary confinement.\n\nAn account of the trial was published soon afterwards, with illustrations by Percy Cruikshank (eldest son of Isaac Robert Cruikshank).\n\nOne hundred years on from 1855, Michael Robbins wrote a detailed feature about this incident called \"The Great South-Eastern Bullion Robbery\" in \"The Railway Magazine\" May 1955 issue.\n\nMichael Crichton's novel \"The Great Train Robbery\" and subsequent feature film presents a highly fictionalised version of the event, portraying Pierce (played by Sean Connery), as a gentleman master criminal who eventually escapes. The true story of the robbery can be found in the book by David C. Hanrahan: \"The First Great Train Robbery\".\n\nThe robbery also featured as one theme in the Victorian mystery novel entitled \"Kept\", written by D.J. Taylor; however in this novel the mastermind behind the crime evaded capture with much of the proceeds.\n\nOne of the strongboxes and a sack of the lead shot can be seen on display at the National Railway Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829387", "title": "Seamus McSporran", "text": "Seamus McSporran\n\nSeamus McSporran, BEM (born 1938) is a Scottish man who worked in over 13 jobs for 31 years in the Scottish Isle of Gigha. The island has a population of about 150.\n\nFor 31 years McSporran was working in 14 jobs: \n\n\nMcSporran began in 1965 as postmaster and shopkeeper and gradually increased his responsibilities. In 1989 he received the British Empire Medal for his services.\n\nMcSporran announced his retirement in April 2000 at the age of 62. In an interview he said that his wife had been a great help with his multiple duties. His brother is Willie McSporran.\n\nMcSporran was featured in the widely used English textbooks for adults \"New Headway Elementary\" and \"New Headway Elementary 3rd Edition\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1829390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829390", "title": "Robert Spring", "text": "Robert Spring\n\nRobert Spring (1813–1876) was an English-born forger who forged letters from luminaries like George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and Horatio Nelson.\n\nRobert Spring was born in England but there is no information about his life prior to his emigration to the United States. He settled in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, around 1858 and became an antiquarian and bookseller.\n\nSometime in the 1870s, Spring began to forge letters from historical people like Washington and Franklin. He used his own mixture of special ink on contemporary paper. At first, he used sheets of paper he had cut from the fronts or backs of old books.\n\nSpring created numerous forgeries of letters, payment orders and other papers with forged signatures of George Washington. He wrote the first payment orders on printed forms of the Office of Discount and Deposit at Baltimore. He made numerous copies of an autographed pass through American lines, issued with numerous different names - sometimes that of the intended buyer. Another common forgery was a supposed letter to one Jabez Huntington, a sheriff of Windham, Connecticut, that was an order to release a prisoner held in the county jail - with varying dates and names. He probably produced those to order in large quantities.\n\nSometimes Spring acquired genuine documents, traced them to make copies, \"aged\" them with coffee grounds and sold them as original. He could send the forged letters to collectors who were interested in old letters or signatures, add a note that the sender needed money and give a poste restante address. He would receive $5–25 at the time, but his supply of such letters was not easily exhausted.\n\nIn 1858, Spring was arrested in Philadelphia for receiving money under false pretenses. He skipped bail and moved to Canada. He began to send his forged letters while pretending to be an impoverished widow who had to sell her family papers. All of them had signatures of important historical personages.\n\nSometime in the 1860s, Spring returned to the United States, settled in Baltimore and began to offer his forgeries to British autograph collectors. He posed as a daughter of Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson who would have to sell family papers in hard times. Many of the counterfeit letters were sold in Canada and Britain.\n\nIn 1869, Spring was arrested again in Philadelphia and put to trial. He confessed and was sent to prison. \nRobert Spring died on December 14, 1876 in a Philadelphia charity hospital.\n\nThere are still numerous papers in public repositories and private collections in the United States and Europe that might be Spring's work. Proven Spring forgeries have become collectors items in their own right.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829392", "title": "Chairperson of the African Union Commission", "text": "Chairperson of the African Union Commission\n\nThe Chairperson of the African Union Commission is the head of the African Union Commission. On January 30, 2017, it was announced that Chad's Moussa Faki would become the further Chairperson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829393", "title": "Charles Weisberg", "text": "Charles Weisberg\n\n\"Baron\" Charles Weisberg (died 1945) was a US document forger who forged manuscripts, letters and signatures of celebrities and historical figures.\n\nWeisberg forged autographs and letters of celebrities like Francis Hopkinson and manuscripts of Walt Whitman and Stephen Collins Foster. He also expanded to alleged works of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln and created surveys of Mount Vernon.\n\nWhen forging Lincoln's signature, Weisberg sometimes used original US Civil War letters and wrote an \"extension\" of the original. However, Weisberg created long letters when Lincoln had usually written shorter, punctual missives. Robert Spring also forged letters from Washington but tended to drop the beginning of the G in Washington's name and omit the \"g\" in \"go\". He also used modern inks.\n\nWeisberg was first arrested 1935 in New York for forgery. He was later charged with mail fraud in Pennsylvania for selling forged documents and autographs through mail. His last forgery was a Katherine Mansfield inscription in a copy of \"The Dove's Nest\" - a book that had been published posthumously.\n\nWeisberg served two contiguous prison sentences in the 1940s and died on May 4, 1945 in Lewisburg Prison in Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829395", "title": "Knowledge of Angels", "text": "Knowledge of Angels\n\nKnowledge of Angels is a medieval philosophical novel by Jill Paton Walsh which was shortlisted for the 1994 Booker Prize. The book received mixed to positive reviews. Kirkus Reviews called it \"an exquisitely mounted, immaculately designed fable.\" The Independent wrote \"Contrived, often describing an idealised world but with luminous moments quite outside the normal run of contemporary fiction, this is a serious children's book for adult readers, and none the worse for that.\"\n\nJill Paton Walsh writes\n\nAt opposite ends of Grandinsula, a remote pre-reformation Christian island, shepherds find a creature with strange footprints stealing their lambs, and fisherman find a swimmer near exhaustion struggling towards the shore. The child cannot stand, eat or speak like a human being; the swimmer says he is a prince in the unheard of land of Aclar, and declares himself to be an atheist. Severo, Cardinal and Prince of the island, is confronted by a double conundrum. Could an atheist be in good faith? Not if the knowledge of God is inborn; then the atheist must once have known God, and reneged on the knowledge. If he is a renegade from the truth, he must be burned as a heretic; but Severo would dearly like to save him. How could it be found out whether everyone has inborn knowledge of God, since the teaching of the Church as best known to the greatest scholar on the island is unclear? Perhaps by teaching the wolf-child to speak, and then asking her... That will take time. Meanwhile, it is worth while trying to demonstrate the truth of God to the mysterious atheist in argument. \nWhat becomes of the argument, of the atheist, and of the wild child, and the effect of their fates on Severo, and the islanders who come in contact with either the Prince of Aclar, or the ferocious child Amara makes up the thread of the story. This is a fable about tolerance, and its conflict with moral certainty.\n\nAlthough set in an idyllic setting - \"an island somewhat like Mallorca, but not Mallorca\" - Knowledge of Angels is essentially tragic in outcome. The stranger Palinor, a modern thinker from an advanced society, is cast ashore on the beach of a medieval culture where faith is all. Eventually he suffers torture and death for his rationalist beliefs in individual choice. The thoughtful Cardinal-prince who rules Grandinsula uses the wolf-girl Amara as a blank slate in an attempt to establish whether a knowledge of God is inherent in the human condition.\n\nPaton Walsh was careful to avoid making Severo a mere caricature; he is for his time an educated and thoughtful man whose intellectual horizons are restricted by his medieval faith. Thus he begins with humane discourse and proceeds to permit torture of his captive atheist in order to uncover \"the truth.\" Much of the dialog the author uses in this section, and the details of the torture itself, were taken verbatim from the records of the Spanish Inquisition, who carefully wrote down their activities because they genuinely felt they were doing the work of their god by inflicting unimaginable agonies on their captives. Additionally, Severo's experiment is undermined by his underlings who incorrectly report the utterances of Amara as she begins to express her inner thoughts and conceptions. The real horror of the book lies in its depiction of well-intentioned people doing terrible things to those unfortunate enough to fall into their hands. \n\nSevero's experiment ultimately leads not only to the death or disillusionment of individual characters but also to the implied destruction of their generally well-intentioned society, by an avenging fleet sighted by Amara as she flees back to the wilderness.\n"}
{"id": "1829396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829396", "title": "Radical Socialists", "text": "Radical Socialists\n\nRadical Socialists () was a political party in Åsnes, Norway. The party was formed when the Åsnes local unit of Communist Party of Norway broke away on 15 December 2004. RS was constituted two months later.\n\nRS held one seat in the municipal council of Åsnes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829399", "title": "Steve Krantz", "text": "Steve Krantz\n\nStephen Falk Krantz (May 20, 1923 – January 4, 2007) was a film producer and writer, most active from 1966 to 1996.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York City, Krantz graduated from Columbia University and went on to serve in the U.S. Army Air Forces in the Pacific during World War II as a second lieutenant.\n\nHe worked as a comedy writer for Milton Berle and Steve Allen. His later years were devoted to the production of animated cartoons in Canada. After firing Shamus Culhane from the animator's supervising director job on \"Rocket Robin Hood\", director Ralph Bakshi and background artist Johnnie Vita were brought to Toronto, not knowing that Krantz and producer Al Guest were in the middle of a lawsuit.\n\nFailing to reach a settlement with Guest, Krantz told Bakshi to grab the series' model sheets and return to the United States. When the studio found out, a warrant for Bakshi's arrest was issued by the Toronto police. Bakshi's animation studio, Bakshi Productions, took over \"Rocket Robin Hood\" and another Krantz-produced series, \"Spider-Man\", beginning Krantz' working relationship with Bakshi.\n\nBy 1968, Krantz was producing live-action shows (such as the Canadian supernatural series \"Strange Paradise\"). Krantz agreed to produce Bakshi's animated film \"Heavy Traffic\", but told Bakshi that Hollywood studio executives would be unwilling to fund the film because of its content and Bakshi's lack of film experience. Bakshi later pitched a film adaptation of Robert Crumb's comic strip \"Fritz the Cat\", and Krantz sent Bakshi to San Francisco in an attempt to persuade Crumb to sign the contract. Krantz later acquired the film rights through Crumb's then-wife, Dana, who had Crumb's power of attorney and signed the contract. \"Fritz the Cat\" was released on April 12, 1972, opening in Hollywood and Washington, D.C. A major hit, it became the most successful independent animated feature of all time.\n\nTowards the end of the year, Krantz began coproducing \"Heavy Traffic\" with Samuel Z. Arkoff, but Krantz had not compensated Bakshi for his work on \"Fritz the Cat\", and halfway through the production of \"Heavy Traffic\", Bakshi asked when he would be paid. Krantz responded, \"The picture didn't make any money, Ralph. It's just a lot of noise.\" Bakshi found Krantz's claims dubious, as the producer had recently purchased a new BMW and a mansion in Beverly Hills. Bakshi soon accused Krantz of ripping him off, which the producer denied. When Bakshi attempted to work with Albert S. Ruddy on another film, Krantz locked Bakshi out of the studio and called several directors, including Chuck Jones, in search of a replacement. Arkoff threatened to withdraw his financial backing unless Krantz rehired Bakshi, which Krantz did a week later.\n\nAfter 1974, live-action motion pictures dominated Krantz' filmography. He wrote two novels, including \"Laurel Canyon\" (Pocket Books, 1979, paperback original), which was a best-seller.\n\nKrantz married magazine writer Judith Tarcher on February 19, 1954. In the mid-1970s, as Judith Krantz, she began her career as a best-selling novelist. Judith's first book, \"Scruples\", was published in 1978, and reached number one on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list.\nThe couple had two sons, Tony and Nicholas. Tony is a film and television writer, director and producer.\n\nHis sister-in-law is puppeteer and ventriloquist Shari Lewis.\n\nHe died in Los Angeles, California, on January 4, 2007 from complications of pneumonia, aged 83.\n"}
{"id": "1829400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829400", "title": "Canter and gallop", "text": "Canter and gallop\n\nThe canter and gallop are variations on the fastest gait that can be performed by a horse or other equine. The canter is a controlled, three-beat gait, while the gallop is a faster, four-beat variation of the same gait. It is a natural gait possessed by all horses, faster than most horses' trot, or ambling gaits. The gallop is the fastest gait of the horse, averaging about . The speed of the canter varies between depending on the length of the horse's stride. A variation of the canter, seen in western riding, is called a lope, and is generally quite slow, no more than .\n\nSince the earliest dictionaries there has been a commonly agreed suggestion that the origin of the word \"canter\" comes from the English city of Canterbury, a place of pilgrimage in the Middle Ages, as referred to in \"The Canterbury Tales\", where the comfortable speed for a pilgrim travelling some distance on horseback was above that of a trot but below that of a gallop. However a lack of compelling evidence made the 18th-century equestrian Richard Berenger remark in \"The History and Art of Horsemanship\" that \"the definition must certainly puzzle all who are \"horsemen\" and all who are \"not\"\" [author's italics], and suggest his own derivation, noted in contemporary dictionaries, from the Latin word \"cantherius\", a gelding, known for its calmness of temper.\n\nThe canter is a three-beat gait, meaning that there are three hoofbeats heard per stride. Each footfall is the \"grounding\" phase of a leg. The three footfalls are evenly spaced, and followed by the \"suspension\" phase of the gait, which is when all four legs are off the ground. The three beats and suspension are considered one stride. The movement for one stride is as follows:\n\n\nThe canter and gallop are related gaits, so by asking the horse to gallop from a canter, the rider is simply asking the horse to lengthen its stride. When the stride is sufficiently lengthened, the diagonal pair of beat two breaks, resulting in a four beat gait, the inside hind striking first, before the outside fore. A careful listener or observer can tell an extended canter from a gallop by the presence of the fourth beat.\n\nThe gallop is the fastest gait of the horse, averaging about , and in the wild is used when the animal needs to flee from predators or simply cover short distances quickly. Horses seldom will gallop more than before they need to rest, though horses can sustain a moderately paced gallop for longer distances before they become winded and have to slow down.\n\nAlthough the walk, trot, and canter can be collected to very short, engaged strides, the gallop if collected will turn back into a canter. The \"hand gallop\" of the show ring is not merely an extended canter, but a true lengthening of stride, yet still fully under control by the rider. A racing gallop, in contrast, pushes the horse to the limits of its speed.\n\nThe fastest galloping speed is achieved by the American Quarter Horse, which in a short sprint of a quarter mile () or less has been clocked at speeds approaching . The Guinness Book of World Records lists a Thoroughbred as having averaged over a two-furlong () distance in 2008.\n\nThe \"lead\" of a canter refers to the order in which the footfalls occur. If the left hind leg is placed first (beat one), which would then be followed by the right hind and left foreleg (beat two), before the right foreleg (beat three), the horse is said to be on the \"right lead\". If the right hind leg is beat one, then the left foreleg will be the last leg to ground, and the horse will be said to be on the \"left lead\". Therefore, a person on the ground can tell which lead the horse is on by watching the front and rear legs and determining which side the legs are literally \"leading\", landing in front of the opposing side.\n\nWhen the horse is on a lead, the legs on the inside front and hind, have greater extension than the outside front and hind. Therefore, a horse on the right lead will have its right hind (beat two) come slightly further under its body than the left hindleg had when it grounded (beat one), and the right foreleg (beat three) will reach further out from the horse's body than the left foreleg had extended (beat two).\n\nIn general, the horse is on the \"correct\" lead when it matches the direction it is going. So a horse turning to the right is on the right lead, a horse turning to the left is on the left lead. However, just as people find it easier to write with one hand or the other, most horses have a \"better side\", on which they find it easier to lead at a canter. In limited circumstances, mostly in dressage training, a horse may be deliberately asked to take the lead opposite of the direction it is traveling. In such cases, this type of canter is called a \"counter-canter.\"\n\nA variant canter, involving the same sequence of beats but variant footfalls in beats one and two, is often referred to by equestrians as cross-firing, cross-cantering, or disunited canter, among other terms. To the observer, the horse appears to be leading with one leg in front, but the opposite leg behind. It is produced by an improper sequence of footfalls. In other animals, such as racing dogs, this footfall sequence may be normal.\n\nThe problem with this sequence is in beat two: the grounded hind and foreleg are \"not\" diagonal pairs, but are on the same side of the horse (in this case, the outside). This means that the horse is balancing on only one side of its body, which is very difficult for the horse, making it hard to keep the animal balanced, rhythmical, and keeping impulsion. A horse that is cross-firing cannot perform to the best of its ability, and can even be dangerous (such as an unbalanced, cross-firing horse who must jump a huge, solid cross-country obstacle). Additionally, it makes for a very uncomfortable, awkward ride, producing a rolling movement often described as riding an eggbeater, which makes it difficult for the rider to perform to the best of his or her abilities.\n\nThe canter can be further divided by the frame and impulsion of the horse. Although there is a \"collected\" canter, \"regular\" or \"working canter, and an \"extended\" canter, these are points on a spectrum, not ends in themselves. A truly adjustable, trained horse should be able to lengthen and shorten as much as the rider desires.\n\nUnderstanding the motion of the canter is important if a person wants to ride the horse with a balanced, secure, yet flexible seat. To the rider, the horse's back feels as if it is moving both up and down as well as somewhat back and forth, not unlike the motion of a swing. When the hind legs engage (which occurs just before beat one), the horse raises its head and neck as its hind leg steps under. As the legs push off the ground (beats 1 and 2) the head and neck of the horse drops. When the leading leg (beat 3) touches the ground, the head and neck are as low as they will be for the stride, and then they begin to come back up as the horse places its weight on its leading leg. During the suspension phase, the head and neck continue back to the highest point as the hind legs come back under the body.\n\nThe canter is generally harder to learn than the posting trot. Some horses may not be able to do a sitting trot, on behalf of their breed, and ability to have longer strides. However, it requires a supple seat that is correctly balanced.\n\nThe canter may be ridden in three ways: sitting, half-seat, and two-point. In a half-seat and/or two-point position, as described below, the rider's seat is raised out of the saddle to some extent, the upper body leaning forward slightly, enough to balance over the horse's center of gravity, and more weight is carried in the stirrups. This position provides more freedom for the horse, especially over rough terrain or when jumping. When a rider sits the canter, the seat remains firmly in the saddle at all times, allowing a more secure position and greater control over the horse.\n\nThe hips should be relaxed and the rider should lean forwards slightly with the movement of the horse. In cross country, the rider tends to stay out of the saddle and be standing up with their knees bent and the upper body leaning over the horse's withers. The heel of the rider should be in line with their shoulders and then the back of their riding hat in dressage to make the canter look neat.\n\nThe rider's seat bones remain in contact with the saddle at all times. The rider \"rolls\" with the canter, allowing free movement in the hips and relaxation in the thighs. The hips move from a backward position, to an upright position aligned with the body, to a slightly forward position, in relation to the gait. So when the 1-2-3 of the footfalls occur, the seat is moving forward. During the suspension phase, it moves back. The rider should focus on making a sweeping motion with the hips. A good visualization technique is for a rider to imagine sweeping the saddle with one's seat, or to visualize sitting in a swing, using the seat muscles to gently move it going back and forth.\n\nThe upper body remains still while sitting, allowing the hips to move underneath the upper body. The shoulders should not \"pump\", or go forward and back. If the upper body moves, it is usually a sign that the rider is tense. The forward incline of the rider's upper body may vary, from very upright (used in a collected canter), to slightly forward (used in the lengthened canter if the rider is using the forward seat). However, the shoulders should still remain back and still.\n\nThe lower leg should remain still when sitting the canter. If it moves, the rider is tense, or gripping with the thigh. The heel will sink down slightly and the knee angle may open with the footfalls, absorbing the shock of the gait.\n\nThe hands should keep steady contact with the horse's mouth. Visually the rider keeps a straight line between the elbow and the mouth of the horse, which requires a relaxed arm that can follow the motion of the horse's neck. The rider must account for that movement by allowing the elbow angle to open and close: opening during the footfalls, and closing during the suspension phase after the footfalls. To do this, the rider needs a steady, elastic contact, rather than mechanically pushing the hands forward or back.\n\nIn a \"half-seat\" position, the rider's seat bones are lifted out of the saddle, and only the pelvis has contact. It is used for jumping when some seat aid may be necessary, especially for sharp turns, when riding downhills, on the approach to potentially spooky fences, or when the rider wishes to collect the stride. This seat is a compromise, allowing the jumping rider to have greater control than in two-point, but still keeping the majority of the rider's weight off the horse's back.\n\nHalf-seat is often seen in hunt seat, show jumping, fox hunting, eventing (jumping phases), and at times in dressage for training purposes, to help lighten the horse's back.\n\nThe rider in half-seat should have almost the same body position as one who sits the canter, except the shoulders are inclined slightly forward and the pelvis is rotated forward, keeping the seat bones free of the saddle. The rider should still keep the hip angle nicely open, and the lower back soft.\n\nThere is disagreement about the use of the term \"three point\" position. Some scholars use this term to describe the half-seat, others use it to describe a rider sitting all the way down in the saddle. Conversely, some instructors use the term \"half seat\" to describe a full two-point jumping seat.\n\nTwo-point position is ridden similar to half-seat, except the rider's seat bones are off the saddle. This position is used for jumping and galloping, as it is easy to stay out of the horse's way and gives the horse the most freedom to use its body. However, the position also provides the least amount of control, and so is only used when the horse's behavior and body is focused properly. This position requires a rider to have good base of leg strength to perform well for long periods, and it can be quite tiring. Two-point is seen when galloping uphill or in straight lines on flat ground, doing large, wide turns at moderate speed, and when approaching a jump that the horse should jump easily, without needing any assistance from the rider.\nIn polo and polocrosse, two-point position is called \"standing\" and the rider in fact stands upright in the stirrups. This helps to isolate the rider's upper body from the motion of the horse, and to allow the rider's hips to rotate as the rider turns sideways in order to swing the playing stick (polo mallet, polocrosse racquet) on the side the horse opposite the stick hand. Some polo instructors recommend standing in the saddle for all strokes.\n\nThe rider may ask for a canter depart (aids for the horse to step into the canter) on the flat from trot, walk, or halt. There are three ways to ask for the canter depart while on the flat, which may be used according to the horse's level of training.\n\nAdditionally, the rider may ask for the canter as the horse jumps a fence (if the fence was taken at the walk, trot, or halt) or may ask for the horse to switch leads over the fence.\n\nAids: The rider applies the outside leg slightly further back from its normal position, which activates the outside hind (the first beat of the intended lead). At the same time, he or she uses the outside rein to flex the horse's head toward the outside, which frees up the animal's inside shoulder, encouraging it to fall into that lead. If the rider were to ask for the left lead, for example, he or she would apply the right leg behind the girth and use the right rein to turn the horse's head to the right. To make the rider's intent even clearer, the horse may be angled slightly toward the outside rail of the arena, which will guide it into taking the correct lead as it goes towards the unobstructed inside, and also discourages the horse from simply running onto the forehand.\n\nPurpose and Drawbacks: These aids are preferred for green horses, as they are clear and simple. However, they bend the horse in the direction opposite of the turn, resulting in a crooked canter.\n\nAids: The rider applies the outside leg slightly further back from its neutral position, thereby activating the horse's outside hind leg, while adding the inside rein aid to indicate the direction of travel. This technique is later refined, first asking with the outside leg aid before adding the inside rein and a push with the inside seat bone. The refined sequence usually makes for a quicker and more balanced depart, and prepares the horse for use of the inside lateral aids.\n\nPurpose and Drawbacks: An intermediate step, this is the most commonly used sequence of aids by amateur riders, and is usually the one taught to beginners. The canter is generally straighter when asked in this way than when asked with the outside lateral aids, but still may not have the correct bend throughout the body.\n\nPreparation and Timing: The rider prepares for the transition by using half-halts to balance the horse, and bends him slightly in the intended direction. Since the first footfall of the canter is the outside hind leg, the rider times the aids to ask for the canter when the outside hind leg is engaged (i.e. under the body). So, at the trot the rider would ask when the inside front leg touches the ground (its shoulder will be forward). At the walk, the rider will ask when the outside shoulder starts to move back.\n\nAids:To ask for the depart, the rider adds the inside leg near the girth, pushes slightly with the inside seat bone, and uses inside direct rein to indicate the direction of travel. The outside leg (slightly behind the girth) and outside rein passively support the inside aids. The combination of aids asks the horse to bend to the inside, directing it to pick up the correct lead.\n\nPurpose: This is the most advanced sequence, used for simple- and flying-changes as well as counter-canter, and requires the horse to be properly \"on the aids.\" These aids result in a prompt response from the horse and a balanced, engaged canter. It is appropriate for more advanced riders with independent seats, and for horses that have a good base of training.\n\nPurpose: The rider may need a specific lead after landing from a fence, especially useful for show jumping. A rider may also trot a fence (and even walk or jump a fence from a standstill), and wish to cue the horse to canter on after the fence. Asking the horse for a specific lead can also be used as a training technique for horses who anticipate turning a certain direction.\n\nAids: To ask for a specific lead while in the air, the rider should look in the intended direction of travel, not down. The rider should lead the horse in the direction of the turn by applying the opening rein aid without pulling backward, while the other hand releases as usual. The outside leg is moved slightly back, and the rider adds slightly more weight to the inside knee. However, the rider should not shift weight so much that he or she becomes unbalanced or has the heels come up.\n\nExercises: In general, horses tend to switch their leads from the one on which they approached as they go over an obstacle. So if they approached on the right lead, they will land on the left. This is because of how they line up their hind legs as they push on take off. A rider can practice asking for a certain lead by trotting a small vertical, and asking for the canter over the fence.\n\nThe canter stride should be easily lengthened and shortened, making the horse \"adjustable\" between fences so that it may meet the distance correctly. Lengthening and shortening are also key components to dressage tests.\n\nIn general, the rider should use half-halts as the horse is raising its head and neck upward (during the suspension phase), because this is when the horse is engaging its hindquarters.\n\nWhen the horse shortens its stride, it rebalances its weight toward the hindquarters. In the actual collected canter, the horse should carry the majority of its weight on the hind end, rather than the front end. The hindquarters will sink lower toward the ground, and the forehand will appear higher and lighter. The horse should maintain tempo, rhythm, and impulsion.\n\nTo shorten the horse's stride, the rider sits taller and lengthens the spine. He or she also performs multiple half-halts in rhythm with the horse's strides, using the restraining aids to ask the horse to engage the hindquarters, yet keeping the leg to the horse's sides to keep impulsion. The rider should not hold the aids or hang onto the horse's mouth when shortening. If the rider does not keep sufficient leg on, the horse will simply fall onto the forehand or break into the trot or walk.\n\nThe lengthened canter results in a longer frame from the horse, with a larger stride. The horse should still maintain impulsion, and care should be taken that it is not driven forward onto the forehand. Rhythm and tempo stay the same.\n\nTo lengthen the canter, the rider uses his or her legs against the horse's sides in rhythm with the gait. The leg aids should be applied as the hind legs are engaging. This is the time when the rider's seat moves forward in the canter stride. Additionally, the rider should engage the seat at the same time as the leg aids are used, \"rolling\" is forward with the canter motion. Contact may be lightened, but should not be dropped. The rider should not lean forward.\n\nThe most important function of the correct lead is for balance. While they are unimportant on a straight line, they can greatly influence the athletic ability of a horse on turns, especially if the turn is tight or performed at speed. Horses naturally lean in to the direction they are turning. Since they extend their lead-side legs further out, they may use them to balance themselves as they lean into that direction. So, if on the right lead while taking a right turn, the right hind will be positioned more under the body, and the right foreleg more in front of the body, to act as a stabilizer as the horse turns.\n\nWhen on the incorrect lead, the horse is usually left unbalanced. In this case, correct riding can make the difference in the horse's performance. Good riding can keep the legs positioned correctly enough so that the horse is still able to perform the turn. Poor riding will hinder rather than help the horse, and in extreme situations such as a tight turn at speed, the horse may lose its legs footing and fall.\n\nSpecific movements of the canter are often required in dressage competition, but are also important for the general training of any riding horse for any discipline.\n"}
{"id": "1829408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829408", "title": "Vanapagan", "text": "Vanapagan\n\nIn Estonian mythology, Vanatühi (\"Old empty one\", or alternatively, Vanapagan, \"Old devil\") is a/the devil or god of the underworld, a giant farmer who is more stupid than malevolent.\n\nVanapagan is the ogre character in Estonian versions of the series of internationally known folktales of the stupid ogre, tale types 1000–1199 in the Aarne–Thompson classification system. In these stories, he is outwitted by his servant Kaval Ants (Crafty Hans).\n\nAmong these folktales is the tale of Vanapagan stealing the musical instrument belonging to the god of lightning Pikne, representing the international tale type \"The Ogre Steals the Thunder's Instruments (Pipe, Sack, etc.)\" (No. 1148B in the Aarne–Thompson classification system).\n\nHe is also the worst enemy of Suur Tõll, a giant known in the folklore of the island Saaremaa. Tõll is decapitated during a battle with Vanatühi's forces.\n\nVanatühi sometimes wears a hat of nails () that makes him invisible.\n"}
{"id": "1829409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829409", "title": "Subsystem number", "text": "Subsystem number\n\nSignalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) subsystem numbers are used to identify applications within network entities which use SCCP signalling.\n\nIn Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), subsystem numbers may be used between Public land mobile networks (PLMNs), in which case they are taken from the globally standardized range (1 - 31) or the part of the national network range (129 - 150) reserved for GSM/UMTS use between PLMNs. For use within a PLMN, numbers are taken from the part of the national network range (32 - 128 & 151 - 254) not reserved for GSM/UMTS use between PLMNs.\n\nThe following globally standardized subsystem numbers have been allocated for use by GSM/UMTS:\n\nThe following national network subsystem numbers have been allocated for use within GSM/UMTS networks:\n\nThe following national network subsystem numbers have been allocated for use within and between GSM/UMTS networks:\n\n 232 CNAM (Calling Name)\n\n"}
{"id": "1829412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829412", "title": "Abdirashid Shermarke", "text": "Abdirashid Shermarke\n\nAbdirashid Ali Sharmarke (, ) (June 8, 1919 – October 15, 1969), also known as Abdirashid Shermarke, was Prime Minister of Somali Republic from July 12, 1960, to June 14, 1964, and President of Somali Republic from July 6, 1967, until his assassination on October 15, 1969. He was the father of Somali Prime Minister Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke.\n\nSharmarke was born in 1919 in the town of Harardhere in the north-central Mudug region of Somalia. His father hailed from the Majeerteen Osman Mohamoud clan and his mother from the Habar Gidir (Sacad Siciid) clan.\n\nRaised in Mogadishu by his mother, Sharmarke attended Qur'anic schools and completed his elementary education in 1936. He then embarked on a career as a trader and later as a civil servant in the Italian colonial administration.\n\nIn 1943, the year of its inauguration, Sharmarke joined the incipient Somali Youth League political party. He entered the British administration's civil service the following year.\n\nWhile still a civil servant, Sharmarke completed his secondary education in 1953. He earned a scholarship to study at the Sapienza University of Rome, where he obtained a BA in Political Science. In 1960, his son, Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke, who would later become Prime Minister of the Somali Transitional Federal Government, was born.\n\nAfter returning from his studies abroad in Italy in 1959, Sharmarke was elected to the Legislative Assembly.\n\nOn 26 June 1960, British Somaliland gained independence as the State of Somaliland. On 1 July 1960, the State of Somaliland and the Trust Territory of Somaliland (previously Italian Somaliland) united to form the Somali Republic. (The anniversaries of both events are now celebrated on the Independence Day of Somalia as a public holiday in Somaliland and Somalia). \n\nOn 1 July 1960, with the creation of the Somali Republic, the then-incumbent President Aden Abdullah Osman Daar appointed Sharmarke Prime Minister of Somalia. Sharmarke's duties as Prime Minister saw him travel abroad extensively in pursuit of a non-aligned and neutral foreign policy. He remained Prime Minister until March 1964, when the first general elections were held and which saw him re-elected as a member of Parliament.\n\nIn the 1967 presidential elections, Sharmarke beat out Daar to become the second President of Somalia. He was sworn into office on July 6, 1967.\n\nIn 1968, Sharmarke narrowly escaped an assassination attempt. A grenade exploded near the car that was transporting him back from the airport, but failed to kill him.\n\nOn October 15, 1969, while paying an official visit to the northern town of Las Anod, Sharmarke was shot dead by one of his own bodyguards. On duty outside the guest-house where the president was staying, the officer fired an automatic rifle at close range, instantly killing Sharmarke. Observers suggested that the assassination was inspired by personal rather than political motives.\n\nSharmarke's assassination was quickly followed by a military coup d'état on October 21, 1969 (the day after his funeral), in which the Somali Army seized power without encountering armed opposition — essentially a bloodless takeover. The putsch was spearheaded by Major General Muhammad Siad Barre, who at the time commanded the army.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829424", "title": "Kee Marcello", "text": "Kee Marcello\n\nKee Marcello (born Kjell Hilding Lövbom, 20 February 1960 in Ludvika, Sweden) is a Swedish guitarist/vocalist, best known as the former guitarist in the hard rock bands Europe and Easy Action. He is currently pursuing his solo career.\n\nThroughout the years, Marcello played in various bands such as Stetson Cody Group, Norbom Hilke and Noice, before he formed Easy Action in 1982. They released two albums, \"Easy Action\" and \"That Makes One\". Easy Action was the first Scandinavian band to sign a worldwide major label deal with a US label, with the Warner label Sire Records in 1983. Zinny J. Zan later left the band and was replaced by Tommy Nilsson. They recorded \"That Makes One\" in 1985-1986 and released it in 1986, only months before Marcello left the band in November 1986 to join Europe, replacing their original guitarist John Norum. In 1993 he formed/joined Red Fun together with Easy Action drummer Fredrik Von Gerber and the same year they released their first and only album \"Red Fun\". In 1995 he embarked on his solo career by the release of his first solo album \"Shine On\". and his fifth and most recent one, \"Scaling Up\" was released by Frontiers Records in October 2016. During 2013-2014 he starred in the Swedish production of the Broadway musical Rock Of Ages (musical) in which he got to portray himself in a specially written role. Since 2015 he has participated in different versions of Rock Of 80's which did a sold out stadium tour of Sweden during the fall of 2016. He is currently on tour with the Kee Marcello Band.\n\nMarcello had previously collaborated with Europe vocalist Joey Tempest on the hugely successful single \"Give a Helpin' Hand\" for the charity project 'Swedish Metal Aid'. He also produced the platinum selling record and subsequently gave Tempest his very first hit single. The success of this collaboration was probably instrumental for the decision of asking Marcello to become the new guitar player. When he joined Europe in 1986, the band had not done any extensive touring outside Sweden, but that was about to change when \"The Final Countdown\" eventually reached number one on the singles charts in 25 countries. In 1987, Europe embarked on \"The Final Countdown World Tour\", their first world tour.\n\nIn 1988, Marcello recorded his first studio album with Europe, \"Out of This World\", at Olympic Studios in London. Later that same year they embarked on the \"Out of This World Tour\", which started off with a US leg together with Def Leppard. Ex-Thin Lizzy keyboardist Darren Wharton's group Dare supported the band on the European leg of the tour. Marcello, who in 1987 emigrated with the rest of the band to the Caribbean in an attempt to escape the then ferocious Swedish margin tax, was spending most of his time in Los Angeles when not in Providenciales on Turks and Caicos Islands. The writing and pre-production of the next album took place in LA and San Francisco. It was recorded in 1990-1991 at Enterprise Studios in Burbank, California. \"Prisoners in Paradise\" was released in 1991 and shortly after they embarked on the \"Prisoners in Paradise World Tour\". After the tour the band decided to go on hiatus in 1992.\n\nIn 1993, Marcello joined former Easy Action drummer Freddie Von Gerber in the band Red Fun, and released a self-titled album that featured a melodic metal sound with heavy blues influences. In 1995 he released his first solo album \"Shine On\", in the singer-songwriting tradition and therefore a take off from his previous work. During 1997–2001 Marcello produced and wrote or co-wrote songs for various artists in his own studio, \"GEM Studios\", in Gothenburg, Sweden. Namely, Canadian band The Moffats number one hit single \"Bang Bang Boom\", the title song for R&R Hall of Fame inductee Percy Sledge's 2004 album \"Shining Through the Rain\", and 3 consecutive platinum albums for Swedish singer Pandora in Japan. He also did several guest appearances as a guitar player, like on the 1999 In Flames album \"Colony\", contributing the second guitar solo on the song \"Coerced Coexistence\". In 2005, he also helped and produced Supergroupies album \"Supergroupies\".\n\nIn 2003, Marcello released the album \"Melon Demon Divine\" under the project band name Kee Marcello's K2. The power trio consisted of Ken Sandin on bass and Snowy Shaw on drums. Over the following years of touring the band went through some member changes, with the exception of bass player Ken Sandin, who is in the band to this day. When Europe reunited with John Norum later that year, Marcello decided not to be part of the reunion. \"I told them I didn't want to participate in a [new] studio album because musically, I want to go in a different kind of direction than the music Europe stands for,\" he said in an interview, \"Then we talked for a while about doing a six-piece tour – it didn't turn out that way because of different reasons.\" However Marcello also made it clear he's happy that Europe reformed and are touring without him. \"I think it's really great that the guys are travelling around playing all those songs to a lot of happy fans.\"\n\nEasy Action reunited for a gig at the Sweden Rock Festival in 2006 and re-released their debut album \"Easy Action\" with some previously unreleased live recordings. Kee Marcello's K2 toured extensively all over Europe and the East during 2008–2009 and performed in the 2007 Swedish Eurovision song contest with Alannah Myles. In 2009, Marcello signed a management deal with Gerry Helders (TMS Management), and started working on two new albums, due for release 2011-2012. He also became an endorsee of Gibson Guitars that year.\n\nAfter having more than 2,000 applicants, Marcello and TMS Management put together an audition for members to his new band at Little Halings, London, in November 2010. The band have been doing showcases at Midem in Cannes, France, and ILMC in London, and will embark on their first tour in 2012. However, this tour was cancelled because of problems with management and sponsors\n\nOn 19 October 2011 Marcello's autobiography, \"The Rock Star God Forgot\", was released in Sweden, with graphic details about Marcello's drug use. An English translation will be released worldwide in 2012. His third solo album, \"\", was released on 11 November 2011 in Sweden, released worldwide on 13 January 2012. It contains the brand new title track as well as re-recordings of Europe and Easy Action tracks. His fourth solo album, \"Judas Kiss\", was released on 5 April 2013.\n\nIn 2016, Marcello was signed to Italian label Frontiers Records and released a new solo album - \"Scaling Up\" - in the fall of 2016. Two tracks from the pre-Prisoners in Paradise demo LeBaron Boys were included on the album\n\nMarcello is also competing in horse racing in Sweden and made the news when he was not allowed to participate in a celebrity race with sports star Patrik Sjöberg due to failing a mandatory pre-race alcohol test.\n\nIn 2017 Frontiers is announced the signing of Kee of Hearts, a band project built around Tommy Heart, singer of Fair Warning and Kee Marcello. The line-up rounded out by Ken Sandin on bass guitar and Italian drummer Marco Di Salvia (Hardline, Pino Scotto). The guys started working on the album in late 2016 with songwriting and direction of producer Alessandro Del Vecchio, that played keyboards on. The epounymous Kee of Hearts was released on September 15th, 2017, anticipated anticipated by singles \"A New Dimension\" on June 27th, \"The Storm\" on July 13th, \"Bridge to Heaven\" on August 17 and \"Crimson Dawn\" on September 6.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829426", "title": "Socialist People's Party (Norway)", "text": "Socialist People's Party (Norway)\n\nThe Socialist People's Party (Norwegian: \"Sosialistisk Folkeparti\") was a splinter group of the Norwegian Labour Party (DNA) founded in 1961. SF was principally dissatisfied with the pro-NATO/European Economic Community external policies of DNA. A group centered on the magazine \"Orientering\" had been expelled from DNA. The party merged into the Socialist Left Party in 1976.\n\nIn the mid-1960s the youth organization of SF, Socialist Youth League (\"Sosialistisk Ungdomsfylking\"), started moving towards revolutionary Marxism, leading to a split in 1969. The SUF broke away, renamed itself SUF(m-l) and launched the Workers' Communist Party (Marxist–Leninist) (which merged with the Red Electoral Alliance in 2007 to launch the new Red Party).\n\nFollowing the split, Socialist People's Youth (\"Sosialistisk Folkepartis Ungdom\") became the new SF youth wing. SF lost parliamentary representation in 1969, but in 1972 a DNA MP, Arne Kielland, joined SF.\n\nSF was the driving force behind the formation of Socialist Electoral League, which later emerged into Socialist Left Party. SV can be seen as the direct successor of the SF.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829447", "title": "The Mammoth Hunters", "text": "The Mammoth Hunters\n\nThe Mammoth Hunters is an historical fiction novel by Jean M. Auel released in 1985. It is the sequel to \"The Valley of Horses\" and third in the Earth's Children series.\n\nThis book picks up where \"The Valley of Horses\" ends; Ayla and Jondalar meet a group known as the Mamutoi, or Mammoth Hunters, with whom they live for a period of time. As the group's name suggests, their hosts rely on mammoth not only for food but also for building materials and a number of other commodities - and indeed for spiritual sustenance. The protagonists make their home with the Lion Camp of the Mammoth Hunters, which features a number of respected Mamutoi. Wisest of their nation is Old Mamut, their eldest shaman and the leader of the entire Mamutoi priesthood, who becomes Ayla's mentor and colleague in the visionary and esoteric fields of thought. Observing Ayla's affinity with horses and wolves, Mamut begins to introduce her into the ranks of the Mamuti (mystics).\n\nMamut is also one of the first to become aware of Ayla's unique upbringing. Many years ago, while on the Journey that all young men take for a rite of passage, he broke his arm, and was healed by the medicine woman of Ayla's Neanderthal clan (the grandmother of Ayla's adoptive mother Iza). This story is referenced in \"Clan of the Cave Bear\" as the Neanderthals rationalize Ayla's behavior in terms of what they know about \"the Others\" (Cro-Magnon). Mamut learned some of the Clan sign language during that stay, and became aware of the fact that the Clan are human (as opposed to other animals, as is the common opinion of most of his people).\n\nAlso within the Lion Camp is a six-year-old boy named Rydag who, like Ayla's lost son Durc, is half Clan and half Other. He was adopted by the headman's mate, Nezzie, when his mother died giving birth to him. He cannot speak, having the same vocal limitations as the Clan, but he also has their ancestral memories. Ayla quickly discovers this and teaches him, and the rest of the Lion Camp, the Clan sign language. Rydag is a sickly child, having a heart defect which limits him from even playing like the other children of the Camp. Many Mamutoi regard him as an animal, but Ayla and the Lion Camp are vehement in their defence of him. Rydag's intelligence, maturity and wit endear him to Jondalar as well, who learns to overcome his cultural prejudice towards Clan and half-Clan people.\n\nMore so than any other book in the Earth's Children series, \"The Mammoth Hunters\" relies on the tension created by the relationships between the characters to create a storyline. Ayla is susceptible to being deceived or confused; she was brought up among essentially honest people who due to their visual language are incapable of deception. She also does not know that when a man asks her to \"share Pleasures\" with him, she has the option of refusing, since Clan women did not. Thus, there are a number of communication failures in her relationships with members of more complex societies, especially with Jondalar, who is obstinate and passionate. Jondalar, a Zelandoni, is a foreigner among the Mamutoi, and Ayla's acceptance in their society makes him feel separated from her. The primary conflict is a love triangle between Jondalar, Ayla, and Lion Camp member Ranec. Ayla is attracted to Ranec, shares \"Pleasures\" with him a few times, and comes close to marrying him before several last-minute revelations reunite the former pair. Some fans have criticized author Jean Auel for making the book somewhat of a soap opera compared to her other works. The author also uses the same technique (long minutely precise descriptive passages) for common sexual activity as she uses for stone age technology (e.g. flint-shaping). At the end of this novel, Ayla and Jondalar leave for the year-long return journey to Jondalar's people, the Zelandonii, a journey detailed in \"The Plains of Passage\" and continued in \"The Shelters of Stone.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1829448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829448", "title": "The Plague of the Zombies", "text": "The Plague of the Zombies\n\nThe Plague of the Zombies is a 1966 Hammer film directed by John Gilling and starring André Morell, John Carson, Jacqueline Pearce, Brook Williams and Michael Ripper. The film's imagery influenced many later films in the zombie genre.\n\nIn a Cornish village in August 1860, the inhabitants of the town are dying from a mysterious plague that seems to be spreading at an accelerated rate. Even the local doctor, Peter Tompson (Brook Williams), cannot combat the disease. Alarmed, Tompson sends for outside help from his friend Sir James Forbes (André Morell). Accompanying Sir James is his daughter Sylvia (Diane Clare). In an attempt to learn more about the disease, Sir James and Dr. Thompson disinter the corpses that were recently buried. To their surprise, the men find all the coffins empty. Conducting further investigations on the mystery lead the doctors to encounter zombies walking near an old, deserted tin mine on the estate of Squire Clive Hamilton (John Carson). Sir James is informed that the squire lived in Haiti for several years and practiced voodoo rituals, as well as black magic. This information leads him to research on the subject of the black arts.\n\nLater that evening, Squire Hamilton pays Sylvia a visit. Purposely, Hamilton manages to shatter a wine glass, and Sylvia happens to cut her finger on one of the sharp edges of the glass. Secretly, the Squire conceals a piece of the blood-stained glass into his coat pocket and departs. With a vestige of Sylvia's blood, Hamilton uses his voodoo magic to lure the heroine into venturing in the dark woods. She is led to the abandoned tin mine by an army of walking zombies for a voodoo ceremony that will transform her into one of the walking dead. It's revealed that Hamilton and his group did this in order to create workers to mine the tin and make money off of it.\n\nWhile Tompson follows Sylvia to the mines, Sir James investigates the Squire's house and finds some small figures in coffins the Squire uses for his voodoo. After a struggle with one of the Squire's henchmen the room is accidentally set ablaze, Sir James barely managing to escape after threatening a servant who notices the inferno for information on the mine. He races to the mines to join Tompson, while in the mansion the figures in the coffins catch fire, causing their zombie counterparts to do the same and go crazy. Using the distraction caused by the burning crazed zombies Sir James and the doctor rescue Sylvia and flee from the burning flames as they listen to the anguished screams of Hamilton and his zombies; thus the plague is ended.\n\nProduction on the film began on 28 July 1965 at Bray Studios. It was shot back-to-back with \"The Reptile\" using the same sets, a Cornish village created on the backlot by Bernard Robinson. Pearce and Ripper appeared in both films.\n\nThe film was released in some markets on a double feature with \"\".\n\nThe films needed to earn in rentals to break even. It earned in rentals, thus making a profit.\n\n\"The Plague of the Zombies\" has been well received by critics. A contemporary review in \"Variety\" called it \"a well-made horror programmer\" with \"formula scripting,\" and \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" declared, \"The best Hammer Horror for quite some time, with remarkably few of the lapses into crudity which are usually part and parcel of this company's work,\" adding, \"Visually the film is splendid, with elegantly designed sets, and both interiors and exteriors shot in pleasantly muted colours; and the script manages quite a few offbeat strokes.\"\n\nAmong more recent assessments, AllMovie called it a \"spooky, atmospheric horror opus that ranks among Hammer Films' finest.\" \"Time Out London\" wrote, \"perhaps a little tame these days, compared with modern gore-shock, but Gilling's Hammer chiller [...] is highly atmospheric.\" \"The Hammer Story: The Authorised History of Hammer Films\" wrote, \"much has been said of \"The Plague of the Zombies\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> influence on genre landmark \"Night of the Living Dead\", made in 1968. A unique and shocking experiment in pushing the parameters of Hammer horror, \"The Plague of the Zombies\" deserves greater recognition in its own right.\" Writing in \"The Zombie Movie Encyclopedia\", academic Peter Dendle called it a \"well-acted and capably-produced\" zombie film that would go on to influence the depiction of zombies in many other films. \"Radio Times\" gave the film four stars and called it \"John Gilling's best work.\"\n\nIt currently holds an 82% approval rating on film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on 11 reviews.\n\nShout Factory released a Blu-ray of the film on January 15, 2019 with brand new commentaries from filmmakers Constantine Nasr, Ted Newsom and film historian Steve Haberman.\n\nA novelization of the film was written by John Burke as part of his 1967 book \"The Second Hammer Horror Film Omnibus\".\n\nThe film was adapted into a 13-page comic strip for the October 1977 issue of the magazine \"House of Hammer\" (volume 1, # 13, published by Top Sellers Limited). It was drawn by Trevor Goring and Brian Bolland from a script by Steve Moore. The cover of the issue featured a painting by Brian Lewis of a famous scene from the film.\n\nIn the first season \"Amazing Stories\" television show episode \"Mirror, Mirror\", the cemetery scene film is used to portray a clip of Sam Waterston's character's horror film being shown by Dick Cavett.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829456", "title": "Alan Leo", "text": "Alan Leo\n\nAlan Leo, born William Frederick Allan, (Westminster, 7 August 1860 – Bude, 30 August 1917), was a prominent British astrologer, author, publisher, astrological data collector and theosophist. He is often referred to as \"the father of modern astrology\".\n\nHis work stimulated a revival of astrology in the Western world after its decline at the end of the 17th century. Leo was a devout theosophist and he worked many of its religious concepts such as karma and reincarnation into his astrology. He used the Theosophical Society's vast international connections to publish, translate and disseminate his work across Europe and America.\n\nLeo, who took the name of his sun-sign as a pseudonym, is credited with starting the movement towards a more psychologically-oriented horoscope analysis in astrology, being the first astrologer to argue for a loose interpretation of possible trends of experience rather than the specific prediction of events. His influence has been described as marking a 'turning point' in horoscope delineation, because, as astrological historian James Holden explains:\nIn 1890, Leo, invited George R.S. Mead to found an occult lodge in Brixton, South London. Towards the end of his life, in 1909, and again in 1911, Leo travelled with his wife to India where he studied Indian astrology. As a result of his studies in India, he later attempted to incorporate portions of Indian astrology into the western astrological model.\n\nLeo's book \"The Art of Synthesis\" (1912) was a probable influence on Gustav Holst's work \"The Planets\". In this book, Leo gave the planets descriptions such as \"Mars the Energiser\". \nIn 1915 Leo founded the Astrological Lodge of London. \nIn 1914, aged 54, Leo faced prosecution against the charge that he \"did unlawfully pretend to tell fortunes\" through astrology. The case was dismissed for lack of evidence, but it led to Leo's belief that astrology needed to be revised to be legitimised. His advice to fellow astrologers was:\n\nIn 1917 Leo stood trial again on a similar charge. Despite his insistence that he told only \"tendencies\" and not \"fortunes\", he lost his case and was fined £5 plus costs.\nLeo was convicted of fortune-telling on 16 July 1917. He died a few weeks later from an apoplexy (cerebral haemorrhage), at 10:00 am on 30 August 1917, whilst on a holiday at Bude in Cornwall, which was intended to restore his health after the ordeals of the trial. He had used the 'holiday' as a period in which he rewrote hundreds of pages of astrological text to \"recast the whole system and make it run more along the lines of character reading and less as the assertion of an inevitable destiny\", despite being warned by his wife that \"he needed rest badly after the worry and anxiety of the law case\", and was overworking himself and heading for a breakdown. After his sudden death the rewriting of his work was completed by his friend and colleague H.S. Greene. Greene also remarked on how the 1917 prosecution had caused worry for Leo during the process of the trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829461", "title": "RANAP", "text": "RANAP\n\nIn telecommunications networks, RANAP (Radio Access Network Application Part) is a protocol specified by 3GPP in TS 25.413\nand used in UMTS for signaling between the Core Network, which can be a MSC or SGSN, and the UTRAN. RANAP is carried over Iu-interface.\n\nRANAP signalling protocol resides in the control plane of Radio network layer of Iu interface in the UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System) protocol stack. Iu interface is the interface between RNC (Radio Network Controller) and CN (Core Network). nb. For Iu-ps transport RANAP is carried on SCTP if IP interface used on this.\n\nRANAP handles signaling for the Iu-PS - RNC and 3G SGSN and Iu-CS - RNC and 3G MSC . It also provides the signaling channel to transparently pass messages between the User Equipment (UE) and the CN.\n\nIn LTE, RANAP has been replaced by S1AP.\nIn SA (standalone) installations of 5G, S1AP will be replaced by NGAP.\n\nOver the Iu interface, RANAP is used to:\n\n- Facilitate general UTRAN procedures from the core network such as paging\n\n- Separate each User Equipment (UE) on protocol level for mobile-specific signaling management\n\n- Transfer transparently non-access signaling\n\n- Request and manage various types of UTRAN radio access bearers\n\n- Perform the Serving Radio Network Subsystem (SRNS) relocation\n\n"}
{"id": "1829462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829462", "title": "Mercedes-Benz SLK-Class (R171)", "text": "Mercedes-Benz SLK-Class (R171)\n\nThe second generation Mercedes-Benz SLK, internally designated model R171, is a two-passenger, front-engine, rear-drive, retractable hardtop roadster, unveiled at the 74th Geneva International Motor Show — and manufactured and marketed for model years 2004–2010. Currently in its third generation and manufactured at Mercedes' Bremen plant, the SLK nameplate designates \"Sportlich\" (sporty), \"Leicht\" (light), and \"Kurz\" (compact).\n\nThe R171 features a number of revisions compared to its predecessor, the R170: a 30mm longer wheelbase, increased length (72mm) and width (65mm), 40% increased use of high strength steel, seven-speed automatic transmission, adaptive two-stage airbags, head/thorax sidebags and a revised roof mechanism (marketed as the Vario roof) deployable in 22 seconds (previously 25 seconds) with a rotary-pivoting rear window enabling a more compact folded roof stack and trunk storage increased by 63 litres with the roof retracted. Optional features include remote operation of the retractable hardtop as well as an innovative forced air, neck-level heating system integral to the headrests, marketed as \"Airscarf\". \n\nThe fully galvanized bodywork, which features 19 percent improvement in static bending and 46 percent improvement in torsional strength with the roof down, also features a 3% improvement in aerodynamic efficiency, with a Cd value of 0.32. The design has been aerodynamically optimized to minimize interior draughts with the top retracted and includes a fabric windblocker which can be pulled up over the two roll-over bars. Mercedes marketed the R171's tapering front end styling by designer Steve Mattin as \"Formula One-inspired\". \n\nIn 2008, the SLK reached sales of 500,000. The R171 made Car and Driver's Ten Best list for 2005 and won the Canadian Car of the Year Best New Convertible award.\n\nThe R171 SLK were the last series that a manual transmission was available in a 6 Cylinder Mercedes-Benz Convertible. The successor to the R171, R172, only offered manual transmission in their 4 cylinder vehicles.\n\nCar and Driver reviewed the manual transmission in November 2004 and rated the transmission glowingly as \"..the love child of a Honda S2000 and BMW M3...\". The review further wrote that with the SLK350 the engine \"...has a willing personality that is perfectly suited to a manual transmission-you'll definitely not regret choosing it over the automatic.\"\n\nAll specifications with standard equipment.\n\nFor the facelifts: SLK 280 fuel economy was improved while CO2 emissions were reduced. In addition to power boosts on SLK 200 KOMPRESSOR and SLK 350, engine speed limit was raised to 6800 rpm, with temporary boost to 7200 rpm across the family (except SLK 55 AMG). Other changes include a higher compression ratio, a new intake manifold and an extensively modified valve train.\n\nAcceleration time with manual transmission.\n\nAcceleration time with automatic transmission.\n\nTerminal speed electronically limited to 250 km/h per \"gentlemen's agreement\" in 1986. The optional extra-cost AMG Driver's Package for SLK 55 AMG raises the terminal speed to 280 km/h.\n\n\n\n\nAs of 2006 AMG has released several new models, but these are not available in all export markets:\n\nIt is a version with engine upgraded to at 5750 rpm and of torque at 4000 rpm, restyled AMG front apron with large air intakes, additional transmission oil cooler and the high-performance steering gear oil cooler, aluminium front strut brace, new carbon fiber side air outlets, wider carbon fibre reinforced plastic (CFRP) front fenders, CFRP non-retractable hardtop, 19-inch light alloy wheels with 235/35ZR19 front and 265/30ZR19 rear tires (optional sport tires are available without extra charge), black pearl velour AMG sport bucket seats without side airbags, CF trunk spoiler, carbon fibre door panel lining and trim parts. The vehicle has curb weight of , lighter than the basic vehicle. Engine performance increase comes largely from the long tube headers and a revised ECU.\n\nThe vehicle went on sale in Germany beginning in July 2006 with MSRP of €107,300 (incl. 16% VAT).\n\n\"Edition 10\" (2007): a version commemorating the 10th anniversary of SLK-Class vehicles. The concept vehicle originally appeared in 2006 Paris Motor show and was based on SLK 280 with 7G-TRONIC transmission, matt-grey metallic body; dark-grey painted, high-sheen light-alloy wheels in a ten-spoke design with 225/45R17 front and 245/40R17 rear tires; black leather seats and interior with silver-coloured under layer; AIRSCARF neck-level heating system, THERMOTRONIC automatic climate-control system, PARKTRONIC parking aid, COMAND system with Europe-wide navigation.\n\nThe production versions were available in SLK 200 KOMPRESSOR, SLK 280, SLK 350 models, which include 'allanite grey Magno' body, wheel and tires, and interior from the show car. AIRSCARF, THERMOTRONIC, and COMAND were offered separately.\n\n2LOOK Edition (2009): a limited appearance package available for SLK 200 KOMPRESSOR, SLK 300 and SLK 350 models, which included calcite white, black, obsidian black metallic, or designo mystic white (300 units total for obsidian black metallic and designo mystic white) body 18-inch 5-twin-spoke titanium silver or chrome shadow alloy wheels with 225/40R18 front and 245/35R18 rear tires, discreet emblems on the wings and a windblocker of transparent acrylic glass, nappa leather seats with the seat centre panels in white and the contoured bolsters in black, contrasting black-and-white doors and centre armrest in leather.\n\nThe vehicle was unveiled in the 2009 Geneva Motor Show.\n\nThe updated model includes a revised front bumper with a modified air-dam arrangement and a more pronounced arrow shape. The rear end was modified by introducing a diffuser-style lower section that makes the Roadster appear more powerful when viewed from behind. The larger exterior mirrors feature LED indicators with a pronounced arrow shape, while the range of light-alloy wheels is also almost entirely new. Interior was optimised to be more driver-oriented. Instrument cluster was updated to include NTG 2.5 audio and telematics with optional LINGUATRONIC voice-operated control, optional harman/kardon Logic7 sound system.\n\nA \"gullwing red\" leather option, inspired by the original 300 SL gullwing, is added. Further new additions include nappa leather appointments in \"natural beige\", which complement the new \"pale burr walnut\" and \"black ash grain\" wood trims perfectly.\n\nDirect steering assist system with variable steering assistance becomes an option (standard in SLK 55 AMG). SLK 55 AMG included a new apron with a black-painted cross strut and side air outlets as well as darkened headlamps.\n\nThe facelifted R171 was unveiled in 2008 NAIAS and went on sale in April 2008.\n\nIn November 2012, Road and Track ranked the SLK350 9th in their Best All Around Sports Car. In particular, Road Test Editor Patrick Hong noted that the facelifted model \"... with its improved manual transmission, is finally worth considering as a real sports car. The previous model was more of a cruiser, but this new SLK350 is different in that its engine is peppier, coming on when needed.\" The article further noted that the SLK 350 had the best ride out of all the vehicles tested with a \"solid yet velvety ride quality\" and that its a sports car with a \"bias towards grand touring over high performance.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1829474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829474", "title": "Roderick Flanagan", "text": "Roderick Flanagan\n\nRoderick Flanagan (1 April 1828 – 13 March 1862) was an Irish historian, anthropologist, poet, newspaper proprietor, and journalist. He was born in Elphin, County Roscommon, Ireland and died when he was 34 years of age in East London, after spending 22 years in Australia. However, in that short span he made a major contribution to the understanding of Indigenous Australians, established a newspaper in Melbourne, wrote many poems and prose about his adopted land, and wrote a major history of New South Wales which into the beginning of the 20th century was considered to be the main reference work on the early European presence in Australia.\n\nBorn in Ireland on 1 April 1828 to Patrick Flanagan (hatter and woolsorter) and Martha Dufficy (daughter of Henry Dufficy – farmer), he and his family emigrated to Australia aboard the emigrant ship \"Crusader\" on 15 January 1840 to escape the overpopulation and famine which was raging throughout Ireland.\n\nHe arrived in Australia with his family on 10 October 1840, although two young sons died on the journey. He was educated at the famous Ryder School in Sydney for three years and then was apprenticed to a printer. Shortly after this he commenced work at Sir Henry Parkes newspaper \"The People's Advocate and New South Wales Vindicator\". He left in 1849 to work for the \"Daily News\" in Melbourne.\n\nIn 1850 Flanagan teamed up with his younger brother to establish their own Melbourne newspaper, \"The Weekly Chronicle\". However, with the discovery of gold in Victoria in 1851, his readership seemed more interested in the yellow metal, than his newspaper and it closed after six months operation.\n\nHe joined another Sir Henry Parkes paper, \"The Empire\" as a journalist. Parkes soon entered Parliament and was too busy to run his paper so he appointed Flanagan as Chief of Reporting Staff. Flanagan's poetry was published in \"The Empire\" and survives as it was collected by his brother Edward in 1887 and published as \"Australian and Other Poems\" in 1887.\n\nIn 1852, John Dunmore Lang, the founder of Presbyterianism in Australia published a history of New South Wales entitled \"\"An Historical and Statistical Account of New South Wales\"\". Flanagan thought it was a poor history which was ridden with prejudice, so he spent the next eight years writing his own book.\n\nIt was eventually published in 1862 by Sampson Low, Son and Company in London. It was entitled:\n\n\"The History of New South Wales with an Account of Van Diemen's Land (Tasmania), New Zealand, Port Phillip (Victoria), Moreton Bay and other Australian Settlements. Comprising a Complete View of the Progress and Prospects of Gold Mining in Australia. The Whole Compiled from Official and Other Authentic and Original Sources.\"\n\nThe book was considered the standard text on Australia for many years and received considerable praise from the Sydney Morning Herald and the \"Empire\".\n\nFlanagan died before he saw his major work published as he contracted tuberculosis and died in cheap lodgings in London on 13 March 1862, while awaiting to see his book printed.\n\nHis brother, Edward, worked hard to keep Flanagan's legacy alive. In 1888 to commemorate one hundred years of settlement, Edward published, Flanagan's essays (that had been published in \"The Empire\") on the Australian Aborigines, in a slim book called \"The Aborigines of Australia.\" This book is remarkable for its sympathetic portrayal of Aborigines at a time when white Australians saw them simply as 'savages' who would die out. His entry in the Australian Dictionary of Biography describes his chapter on the Myall Creek massacre as \"a restrained exercise in the use of evidence to prove guilt\".\n\nIn 1988, to commemorate the bicentennial of European settlement of Australia, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Committee of the Queensland Bicentennial Council reprinted \"Aborigines in Australia\", claiming that reprinting \"enables the earliest unbiased account of the Australian Aborigines to be re-introduced to the people of modern Australia.\"\n"}
{"id": "1829476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829476", "title": "Bermuda national cricket team", "text": "Bermuda national cricket team\n\nThe Bermuda national cricket team represents the British overseas territory of Bermuda in international cricket. The team is organised by the Bermuda Cricket Board (BCB), which became an associate member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) in 1966.\n\nA Bermudian national team was first organised in 1891, when a tour of New York City arranged. In the years before World War I, Bermuda and American teams (including the Philadelphians) frequently exchanged tours, although it was not until 1912, when Australia toured, that the national team played a full international. After the 1920s, the focus of Bermudian cricket moved away from the United States towards the countries of the West Indies, although frequent tours from West Indian teams began only in the 1950s. The national team also played matches against international teams travelling to and from tours of the West Indies. However, only one of these games, against New Zealand in 1972, held first-class status.\n\nThe ICC Trophy (now the World Cup Qualifier) commenced in 1979 as the first World Cup qualifying tournament for ICC associate members. Bermuda made the semi-finals that year, and at 1982 edition made the final, losing to Zimbabwe. However, the side did not qualify for the World Cup, as it featured only one associate qualifier. By the time of the 2005 ICC Trophy, the number of associate qualifiers had been increased to six. By making the semi-finals that year, Bermuda qualified for the 2007 World Cup, becoming the smallest country to do so (both in terms of population and area). The team also received One Day International (ODI) and Twenty20 International (T20I) status until 2009. However, Bermuda performed poorly both at the World Cup and in subsequent ODI series, and after the 2009 World Cup Qualifier was relegated to the 2011 World Cricket League Division Two tournament. The team has since dropped three more divisions.\n\nIn April 2018, the ICC decided to grant full Twenty20 International (T20I) status to all its members. Therefore, all Twenty20 matches played between Bermuda and other ICC members after 1 January 2019 will be a full T20I. Later in 2019, Bermuda will play in the 2019–21 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League.\n\nThe first recorded cricket match to take place in Bermuda occurred on 30 August 1844. The Bermuda Cricket Club was formed one year later and had support from locals as well as British troops. Some international games were played against American sides, principally from Philadelphia in the late 19th century, but the cricketing strength of the island diminished greatly after the First World War. Indeed, the only significant tour in the inter-War years was a five-match tour by a team led by Sir Julien Cahn in 1933.\n\nAfter the Second World War cricket regained popularity in Bermuda, and many tours arrived, including some Test sides on the way to the West Indies. The first Bermudian tour of England took place in 1960 and more tours followed. Bermuda also is the place where the first non-Yorkshireman played for Yorkshire County Cricket Club. Yorkshire traditionally had a rule that no-one born outside the county could play for them, a rule abandoned in the 1990s. However, the rule was bent to allow Garry Sobers to play some games for them under the captaincy of Brian Close during a festival match in Bermuda.\n\nIn 1966 Bermuda was elected to Associate Membership of the International Cricket Council. A match against New Zealand in April 1972 was given first-class status. Since then they have competed in a wide range of international competitions including the ICC Trophy, a competition which was proposed by Alma Hunt, the Bermudian delegate to the ICC.\n\nIn 2003 and 2004 they competed in the ICC Intercontinental Cup, playing in the same group as Canada and the United States. In 2004, the first running of the competition, they were knocked out after losing to Canada and drawing against the Americans. In 2005, they won the American group after beating Canada and the Cayman Islands in Canada. However, the semi-final against Kenya in October was lost.\n\nBermuda's greatest cricketing moment came on 7 July 2005 when they qualified for the semi-finals of the 2005 ICC Trophy. Qualification for the Semi-finals meant they won a place in the 2007 Cricket World Cup in the West Indies and that, from 1 January 2006 until the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier, they had official One Day International status.\n\nBermuda's first international engagement of 2006 ended in disappointment, when they lost every game on a five-match tour of the UAE. In April 2006 they hosted and took part in a Twenty20 tournament called the World Cricket Classic.\n\nBermuda played their first One-Day International in May 2006, and were successful in their first outing, beating Canada at the Queen's Park Oval in Trinidad as part of a triangular series which also included Zimbabwe. This made them the fourth team to win their first ODI, after Australia, New Zealand and Zimbabwe. However, Bermuda lost their second ODI, against Zimbabwe by 194 runs having conceded 338 for seven. They went on to lose the final, again against Zimbabwe.\n\nIn July 2006, they took part in the Stanford 20/20 knock-out tournament, but lost to Jamaica. They were given $100,000 for participating in the event. The following month they toured Canada, playing a four-day ICC Intercontinental Cup game and two ODIs. They lost the Intercontinental Cup game by nine wickets in a match that went into the final hour, but won both of the two ODIs. They are due to play Kenya and the Netherlands in their other Intercontinental Cup matches later that year. Also in August, they played in Division One of the ICC Americas Championship and went on to win the tournament for the first time, without losing a game. In November they visited Kenya for an Intercontinental Cup match and three ODIs. They drew the Intercontinental Cup match in a rain-affected game, and lost all three ODIs. They then went to South Africa, starting with an Intercontinental Cup game against the Netherlands. This was drawn, but highlighted by a record breaking innings from Glamorgan batsman David Hemp who scored 247 not out, the highest score in the history of the competition. This was followed by a triangular series against Canada and the Netherlands. They lost the first three games, but beat the Netherlands in the final, low-scoring game.\n\nAt the end of January 2007, Bermuda travelled to Kenya for the Division One tournament of the ICC World Cricket League. They lost 4 out of their 5 games: a 10 wicket loss to eventual champions Kenya, a 4 wicket loss to Ireland, losing by 56 runs to Canada (being bowled out inside just 16 overs) and losing by 8 wickets to the Netherlands; their only win coming against Scotland by 5 wickets. They finished bottom of the group, behind Ireland on net run rate (Bermuda with −1.310, Ireland with −0.061).\n\nThis was followed by a triangular series, played at the Antigua Recreation Ground in St. John's, Antigua, which saw Bermuda play Bangladesh and Canada. Their opening match was against Bangladesh where they posted 205/8 in their 50 overs, Lionel Cann top scoring with 33 off just 23 balls, however Bangladeshi opener Shahriar Nafees quickly silenced any thought of Bermuda pulling off a win, posting 104 not out and guiding Bangladesh home to an 8 wicket win.\nAfter winning the toss and deciding to bat against Canada, Bermuda scored 206/8 from their 50 overs: an innings that was saved from collapse in large due to the partnerships between captain Irving Romaine and Saleem Mukuddem, for 57, as well as Lionel Cann and Delyone Borden, for 38. Cann top scored for Bermuda again, this time for 42 – notably off just 25 balls, including five sixes. Come the Canadian innings, opener Abdool Samad took to the crease in similar fashion to Nafees the day before. His 83 from 86 took Canada to 135/3, and well on the way to victory. Delyone Borden's spin bowling brought them back into the game – taking 4 wickets for just 33 runs, and reducing Canada to 179/6; but the tail end of Canada's batting order got them the 207 runs they required – with 6 overs to spare and losing just 1 more wicket – to finish on 207/7.\n\nOn 5 March Bermuda played England in St. Vincent. England were at 286–8 after the 50 overs thanks to a quick 76 by Jamie Dalrymple and with Ian Bell and Kevin Pietersen scoring 46 and 43 respectively. The Bermudian innings came to a close after just 22.2 overs with England claiming all 10 wickets with just 45 runs on the scorecard, with the highest runner getting 11. Jon Lewis claimed 3 wickets with James Anderson and Andrew Flintoff both getting 2.\n\nTheir second warm-up match was against Zimbabwe, also in St. Vincent. Bermuda won the toss and chose to bat, but soon started losing wickets. Janeiro Tucker scored 56, but was one of only 4 players to reach double figures before Bermuda were bowled out on the last ball of their innings for 136. Zimbabwe lost 2 wickets inside the first three overs, but Sean Williams top scored with 72 not out to reach their target of 137 in just 29 overs, losing just 4 wickets on the way.\n\nAfter more than a year of unconvincing defeats, Bermuda's first appearance in the World Cup was unsurprisingly marked with 3 heavy defeats, having been drawn with Sri Lanka, India and Bangladesh. In their opening game they posted a meager 78 all out, chasing Sri Lanka's 321/6.\n\nIn their second game against India they struggled with the ball and India posted the highest total in World Cup history: 413/5. In response, David Hemp posted the maiden Bermudian half century in World Cup cricket with 76 not out. However, besides Hemp, the batsmen also struggled: the second highest scorer was Dean Minors with 21, and 5 of the 11 players were out for ducks.\n\nTheir final game, against Bangladesh, was hit heavily by rain: after originally being reduced to 41 overs a side it was ultimately decided that a maximum of 21 overs each could be played. Bermuda posted 94/9 in that time, with David Hemp top scoring again (with 23); but Bangladesh reached 96 in 17.3 overs, despite losing 3 quick wickets.\n\nAugust saw them lose to Ireland and the Netherlands by huge margins in the 2007–08 ICC Intercontinental Cup, as well as an ODI series against the Netherlands. Between October and November they played the remainder of their Intercontinental Cup matches, against Kenya and the United Arab Emirates, as well as an ODI series against both nations. They finished last in the tournament.\n\nThe team then took part in 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier where they finished 9th, and were relegated to 2011 ICC World Cricket League Division Two and qualified for 2009-10 ICC Intercontinental Shield. They lost heavily in the Intercontinental Shield.\n\nBermuda finished last in the 2011 ICC World Cricket League Division Two, thus relegating them to 2013 ICC World Cricket League Division Three. In April 2013 Bermuda hosted the 2013 ICC World Cricket League Division Three in which they came 4th. At the 2013 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier Bermuda finished 14th with wins over Denmark and a surprise win over Scotland, with outstanding bowling from Jacobi Robinson. In the 2014 ICC World Cricket League Division Three, Bermuda capitulated against all teams, managing one win against Malaysia. They ended up coming last, thus relegating them to the 2016 ICC World Cricket League Division Four. In the space of less than six years, Bermuda went from being in the ICC World Cup Qualifier Division, to Division Four.\n\nBermuda progressed from 2018-19 Americas southern sub region qualifier to Regionals Finals in 2018.\n\n 1st place\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Squad for Oman ODI Series 1-13 December 2019\nTerryn Fray (captain)\n\nRodney Trott (vice-captain)\n\nDerrick Brangman\n\nJustin Pitcher\n\nZeko Burgess\n\nDion Stovell\n\nTre Manders\n\nKyle Hodsoll\n\nOnias Bascome\n\nOkera Bascome\n\nKamau Leverock\n\nDelray Rawlins\n\nDeunte Darrell\n\nSinclair Smith\n\nPierre Smith\n\nInternational Match Summary – Bermuda\n\n\nMost ODI runs for Bermuda\n\nMost ODI wickets for Bermuda\n\nHighest individual innings in ODI\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in ODI\n\nODI record versus other nations\n\n\nMost T20I runs for Bermuda\n\nMost T20I wickets for Bermuda\n\nT20I record versus other nations\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829495", "title": "Chase play", "text": "Chase play\n\nChase Play is a timeshifting facility of DVD-RAM DVD recorders and many Personal video recorders.\n\nIt allows a user to simultaneously watch, stop or pause live television while continuing to record a program to its conclusion.\n\nIf a user is interrupted while watching television, they can use Chase Play to 'pause' the television until they can keep watching. Initiating 'Chase Play' means that the user no longer has to wait until the show is over before finding out what they have missed. When returning from the interruption, 'Chase Play' allows the user to start viewing the program from precisely where they left off. The recording device will continue to capture the program in 'real time' until instructed to stop.\n"}
{"id": "1829521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829521", "title": "Forest of Marston Vale", "text": "Forest of Marston Vale\n\nThe Forest of Marston Vale is an evolving community forest in Marston Vale, which runs south west from the towns of Bedford and Kempston in Bedfordshire, England towards the M1 motorway. It is operated by a registered charity called the Forest of Marston Vale Trust.\n\nThe vale is traditionally a brickmaking area, but brickmaking industry has been running down since the 1970s. It has left a large amount of spoiled countryside containing several large empty pits some of which have now been converted into lakes. The Forest of Marston Vale is one of twelve of community forest projects in the United Kingdom. It was initiated by the Countryside Agency and the Forestry Commission, in partnership with Bedfordshire County Council, Mid Bedfordshire District Council, and Bedford Borough Council. The total area covered is 61 square miles (158 km), but most of this land is in private ownership. There are incentives for landowners to plant trees, and the target for community forests in general is to reach 30% tree cover.\n\nThe principal public open space in the Forest is Marston Vale is the Millennium Country Park which covers 2.5 km (1 mile) and was opened in 2000. The park features several lakes including the large Stewartby Lake and extensive wetlands. There is a visitor centre called the Forest Centre, which has a Lakeside Cafe, shop, toilets and bike rental. According to the official website the park attracts around a quarter of a million visitors a year. There are plans to create a larger park of over to the east of Bedford, which will be called Bedford River Valley Park.\n\nOn 26 January 2018, the UK Environmental Agency granted a permit to Covanta Energy Limited to operate what will be the UK's largest waste incinerator, next to the Forest. The effect of this development remains to be seen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829522", "title": "Bedford Borough Council", "text": "Bedford Borough Council\n\nBedford Borough Council is the local authority of the Borough of Bedford in Bedfordshire, England. It is a unitary authority, having the powers of a non-metropolitan county and district council combined. The executive of the council is the directly elected mayor of Bedford. It is a member of the East of England Local Government Association.\n\nThe first official Councillor of Bedford Borough Council was Cllr Sarah-Jayne Holland, following the introduction of unitary authority across Bedfordshire. On 1 April 2009, the Bedfordshire County Council ceased to exist, and unitary authorities for Bedford Borough Council and Central Bedfordshire Council were formed.\n\nSince the first election to the council in 1973 political control of the council has been held by the following parties:\n"}
{"id": "1829523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829523", "title": "DOM Inspector", "text": "DOM Inspector\n\nDOM Inspector (DOMi) is a web developer tool created by Joe Hewitt and was originally included in Mozilla Application Suite as well as versions of Mozilla Firefox prior to Firefox 3. It is now included by default in SeaMonkey and is an installable extension for subsequent versions of Firefox and other Mozilla-based applications. Its main purpose is to inspect and edit the Document Object Model (DOM) tree of HTML and XML-based documents.\n\nA DOM node can be selected from the tree structure, or by clicking on the browser chrome. As well as the DOM tree viewer, other viewers are also available, including Box Model, XBL Bindings, CSS Rules, Style Sheets, Computed Style, JavaScript Object, as well as a number of viewers for document and application accessibility. By default, the DOM Inspector highlights a newly selected non-attribute node with a red flashing border.\n\nSimilar tools exist in other browsers, e.g., Opera's Dragonfly, Safari's Web Inspector, the Internet Explorer Developer Toolbar, and Google Chrome's Developer Tools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829525", "title": "Bedfordshire County Council", "text": "Bedfordshire County Council\n\nBedfordshire County Council was the county council of the non-metropolitan county of Bedfordshire in England. It was established on 24 January 1889 and was abolished on 1 April 2009. The county council was based in Bedford.\n\nIn 1997 Luton Borough Council became a unitary authority and in 2009 the remaining county council was divided into two unitary authorities: Bedford Borough Council and Central Bedfordshire Council (formed from Mid Bedfordshire and South Bedfordshire District Councils).\n\n\"Further information: History of local government in England\"\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\"Further information: Local Government Act 1888\"\n\nThe Local Government Act 1888 created County Councils to bring the delivery of local services under democratic control that were previously overseen by the Court of Quarter Sessions and bodies such as School Boards, Highways Boards and Poor Law Boards. The first elections for 64 members were held on 24 January 1889, with the first meeting held at Shire Hall (shared with the law courts), Bedford on 7 February 1889.\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nEvents that took place were:\n\n\nBedfordshire County Council had its coat of arms created in 1951 as part of the Festival of Britain celebrations. The coat of arms became the symbol of the county being placed on many public buildings and signs. The council used the banner of arms as a flag until it was abolished in 2009. Description from heraldry-wiki.com states:\n\nArms : Quarterly Or and Gules a Fess wavy barry way of four Argent and Azure surmounted by a Pale Sable charged with three Escallops of the third.\n\nCrest : On a Wreath of the Colours issuant from a Wreath of Oak Or a Swan's Head and Neck proper.\n\nSupporters : On the dexter side a Lion Gules and on the sinister side a Bull Or.\n\nMotto: 'CONSTANT BE'\n\nThe arms were officially granted on 12 April 1951.\n\nThe division of the field quarterly or and gules is derived from the arms of the Beauchamps, Constables of Bedford Castle, the leading family in the county after the Norman Conquest. The Beauchamp of 1215 was one of the promoters of Magna Carta, and their last male was killed at Evesham in 1265.\n\nThe wavy bar denotes the river Ouse. The pale charged with three escallops commemorates the services of the House of Russell to the State, the County and the County Council, and is taken from the arms of that family.\n\nThe crest is a swan's head and neck and again refers to the Ouse.\n\nThe lion supporter is taken from a similar supporter to the Russell coat of arms. The bull supporter stands for the importance of agriculture in the county.\n\nThe motto \"Constant be\" is taken from Bunyan's hymn: |\"Who would true valour see, let him come hither, |One here will constant be, come wind, come weather\"\n"}
{"id": "1829528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829528", "title": "Fortification (disambiguation)", "text": "Fortification (disambiguation)\n\nA fortification is a military construction or building designed for defense in warfare.\n\nFortification may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1829532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829532", "title": "Mawtini (Ibrahim Tuqan song)", "text": "Mawtini (Ibrahim Tuqan song)\n\n\"Mawṭinī\" () is the national anthem of Iraq, being adopted as such in 2004.\n\nThe song formerly served as the \"de facto\" national anthem of Palestine from the late 1930s Palestinian Arab revolt to 1996, when the country formally adopted an official national anthem. Though it has since been superseded by an official national anthem there, many Palestinians still identify strongly with it and consider it a sort of unofficial second national anthem of their country.\n\nIt is a popular poem written by the Palestinian poet ʾIbrāhīm Ṭūqān c. 1934 and composed by the Lebanese composer Muḥammid Flayfil. It served as Palestine's \"de facto\" national anthem from its inception to 1996 when it was officially replaced by \"Fidā’ī\". However, many Palestinians still identify with it along with \"Fida'i\" and consider the former a sort of unofficial second national anthem of their country.\n\nIn 2004, it was re-adopted as a national anthem, this time by Iraq, on the order of Coalition Provisional Authority chief Paul Bremer as the national anthem of Iraq. It replaced \"Mawṭinī\" (of no relation to the current national anthem), which in turn replaced the old national anthem \"Arḍulfurātayni\", which had been in use since 1981 and was thus associated with Saddam Hussein's Ba'athist regime.\n\nDuring the late 1950s and early 1960s, after it became a republic, Iraq used a national anthem also called \"Mawṭinī\", composed by Lewis Zanbaka. Though it shares the same name as the current Iraqi national anthem, it is a different song altogether. Unlike the current Iraqi national anthem, this version is instrumental and has no lyrics.\n\nAfter Iraq's Ba'athist regime was deposed in 2003, the old \"Mawṭinī\" formerly used as the Iraqi national anthem during the late 1950s and early 1960s was brought back and used temporarily as an interim national anthem until it was replaced by the current \"Mawṭinī\" in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829535", "title": "Edwin Feulner", "text": "Edwin Feulner\n\nEdwin John Feulner Jr. (born August 12, 1941) is credited with establishing the American conservative think tank The Heritage Foundation and served as its president from 1977 to 2013 and again from 2017 to 2018. \n\nFeulner attended Immaculate Conception High School and graduated from Regis University with a bachelor's degree in English in 1963.\" After receiving an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business in 1964, he attended Georgetown University and the London School of Economics, where he was a Richard M. Weaver Fellow. He put his studies on hold while President of The Heritage Foundation. Later, in 1981 he earned a PhD in Political Science at the University of Edinburgh.\n\nFeulner began his Washington career as an analyst for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, then called the Center for Strategic Studies. He later became a congressional aide to congressman (and later Secretary of Defense) Melvin Laird. Feulner subsequently became a long-serving executive assistant to Illinois Republican congressman Phil Crane. Prior to his presidency of the Heritage Foundation, Feulner was executive director of the Republican Study Committee.\n\nFeulner was a founding trustee of the Heritage Foundation from 1973 until 1977, when he left Representative Crane's office to run the outfit full-time. It had nine employees and in those four years had churned through four presidents.\n\nAs president, he changed the foundation's direction. He wanted it to be more aggressive, more market-driven and less ivory-tower, creating easily accessed, concise studies.\n\nBy focusing the foundation's marketing, he transformed it from a small operation into a booming enterprise of conservative ideals, eventually creating the think tank that \"The New York Times\" calls \"the Parthenon of the conservative metropolis.\" This new marketing strategy was called the \"briefcase test\", a concept that revolutionized the influence of think tanks on public policy and boosted Heritage's popularity. Now the focus was on easily accessed, timely, concise research that could fit in a briefcase. A further fillip was the foundation's publishing of policy reports and papers ahead of related legislation, rather than the established think-tank practice of waiting until it had been passed. As Feulner related to \"The Washington Examiner\", \"It doesn't do us any good to have great ideas if we are not out there peddling our products.\"\n\nWithin a year and a half of Feulner becoming president, Heritage's budget had increased to $2.5 million with a donor pool of about 120,000. The institution has around 250 employees and annual income of about $80 million and a donor pool of about 600,000. \n\nIn January 2013, Feulner published a column, \"Economic Freedom on the Wane\", to review the results of the annual Index of Economic Freedom, which has been a joint project of \"The Wall Street Journal\" and the Heritage Foundation since 1995. The index measures individual countries' policies in four broad areas: the rule of law, limited government, regulatory efficiency and open markets. In the 2013 edition, citizens of the United States were\n\nlucky we didn't fall out of the top 10 altogether. Our Index score went down a bit over the last year. We held onto the No. 10 slot mostly because Ireland declined enough to wind up in 11th place. As recently as 2008, the U.S. ranked seventh worldwide, had a score of 81 (on a 0–100 scale, with 100 being the freest), and was listed as a \"free\" economy. Today, the U.S. has a score of 76 (its lowest since 2000) and is \"mostly free,\" the Index's second-highest category.\n\nFeulner was president and treasurer of the Mont Pelerin Society in 2014. He has served as a trustee and as the chairman of the board of the Intercollegiate Studies Institute. He has also been a member of the board of the National Chamber Foundation and of the Institut d'Etudes Politiques, as well as of the board of trustees and a life trustee of Regis University, his undergraduate alma mater.\n\nHe is a member of the advisory council of the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation.\n\nAmong other executive and advisory roles, Feulner was president of the Philadelphia Society 1982–83 and 2013–2014 and is a past director of Sequoia Bank, the Council for National Policy, the Acton Institute, George Mason University and the American Council on Germany.\n\nFeulner served as a member of the Gingrich-Mitchell Congressional UN Reform Task Force (2005) and of the Meltzer Commission from 1999–2000. He was vice chairman of the National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform, known as the Kemp Commission, from 1995 to 1996. He also was the chairman of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy (1982–91), a consultant for domestic policy to President Reagan, and an adviser to several government departments and agencies.\n\nIn 1989 Feulner received the Presidential Citizens Medal, the second-highest civilian award in the United States. \n\nHe is frequently recognized by media and in conservative circles as an influence in US right-wing policy thought. In Forbes Magazine, in 2009, Karl Rove called Feulner the sixth most powerful conservative in Washington. In 2007 \"GQ\" magazine considered him one of the \"50 most powerful people in D.C.\" And in both 2007 and 2010, the UK's Daily Telegraph named him \"one of the 100 most influential conservatives in America\". \n\nIn June 2012, Feulner received the conservative Bradley Prize for \"extraordinary talent and dedication\". In 2018, he took the National Review's William F. Buckley Jr. Prize for Leadership in Political Thought. \n\nHe has been awarded eleven honorary degrees, and has received honors from the governments of Taiwan, South Korea and the Czech Republic.\n\nFeulner was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Helen Joan (née Franzen) and Edwin John Feulner Sr., owner of a Chicago real estate firm. He came from a line of German-American Catholics (his grandparents had immigrated to the US in the 1870s). Feulner and his wife, Linda Claire Leventhal, live in Alexandria, Virginia. They have two children: Edwin J. Feulner III and Emily V. Lown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829537", "title": "Preston and Wyre Joint Railway", "text": "Preston and Wyre Joint Railway\n\nThe Preston and Wyre Railway was promoted to open up agricultural land in the Fylde in Lancashire, access a new port at what became Fleetwood and the Lancaster Canal at Preston: it opened in 1840. An associated company built the dock leading to the company changing its name to the Preston and Wyre Railway, Harbour and Dock Company. Passenger business was more buoyant than expected, and the company built branch lines to the nascent resort of Blackpool and Lytham that opened in 1846. At that time the line was leased by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway and later the London and North Western Railway took a share in the lease which was later converted to outright ownership. The Preston and Wyre Railway continued o be jointly owned as the Preston and Wyre Joint Railway.\n\nThe Blackpool and Lytham Railway built a line without making any junction with the Preston and Wyre railway in 1863. In 1871 it was taken into the Preston and Wyre group. Passenger traffic in connection with steamer sailings at Fleetwood continued throughout the 19th century and fishing was important but the huge expansion of Blackpool as a holiday and trippers' destination dominated the P&WR network. There were massive peak flows of traffic on summer Saturdays to and from the industrial towns of Lancashire, Yorkshire and elsewhere. The railway carried local pleasure journeys by holidaymakers during their stay, and Blackpool to Fleetwood was a prominent route, served by a frequent railmotor service in the early 20th century.\n\nAfter 1960 the railways' near-monopoly of passenger transport to Blackpool declined steeply, and Blackpool Central station was closed and the site sold for development. A revival started in 2018 when electrification of the Blackpool North line brought through trains to and from London and Manchester Airport.\n\nThe North Union Railway opened a line from Parkside on the Liverpool and Manchester Railway to Preston on 31 October 1838. Before that, a local line had been authorised to connect agricultural districts in the Fylde to a sea harbour in the north-west and the Lancaster Canal at the eastern end. The Fylde, north of the Ribble estuary and straddling the River Wyre, had agricultural land with rich potential, but the roads were poor and there was no harbour for shipping.\n\nPeter Hesketh succeeded to the Rossall Hall estate in 1824 and in 1831 acquired Royal authorisation to add Fleetwood to his name. He saw that the estate could be developed if a railway connection could be made to Preston and a harbour created in the sheltered estuary of the River Wyre. The harbour became Fleetwood, although at the time there was no settlement.\n\nOn 3 July 1835 an Act was passed authorising the Preston and Wyre Railway and Harbour Company with authorised capital of £130,000. Another Act of 5 May 1837 authorised a connection to the Lancaster and Preston Junction Railway which was authorised on the same day. Also authorised was access to the North Union Railway's station at Preston. A dock was considered to be essential and the company was authorised to construct docks at Fleetwood with capital of £100,000. The Preston and Wyre Dock Company constructed the dock and the two companies were combined on 1 July 1839, forming the Preston and Wyre Railway, Harbour and Dock Company. Peter Hesketh Fleetwood founded the town of Fleetwood in 1836.\n\nThe line ran from a terminus at Dock Street on the southern part of the promontory that forms Fleetwood. It continued south in a straight line for two miles across tidal marshes known as Cold Dubbs where it was to be carried on embankment. The intention was to reclaim the marshes which would be contained by the embankment but engineering difficulties were encountered during construction and several sections of timber trestle viaduct were substituted.\nThe line continued to Poulton and Kirkham and arrangements were made on market days to stop trains at Salwick and Lea Road between Kirkham and Preston. There seems to have been no stations at these locations. The Preston station was Maudlands at Leighton Street, a terminus adjacent to the Lancaster Canal. Maudlands was accessed by crossing the Lancaster and Preston Junction Railway on the level. The L&PJR line was constructed at a level five feet higher than the P&WR line which had to be lifted to make the level crossing. A connection into the southbound L&PJR was made later enabling Fleetwood trains to use the NUR station. The P&WR ran an omnibus between Maudlands and the NUR station for connecting passenger trains.\n\nThe dock and railway companies were amalgamated by Act of 1 July 1839 but work on the dock was deferred, although a wharf, pier and lighthouses were constructed. The singe line railway opened on 15 July 1840 for a special train and on 16 July to the public.\n\nTraffic exceeded expectations: 20,000 passengers were carried in the first month, and in the six summer months of 1841 the total was 108,000. The line was worked by North Union Railway locomotives and rolling stock. The Lancaster and Preston Junction Railway opened on 25 June 1840\n\nThe Fleetwood line carried traffic from London to Scotland as there was no through railway line. Trains to Fleetwood to and a steamer to Ardrossan and train for the onward journey took about 27 hours. The route ceased to be significant in 1848 with the opening of the Caledonian Railway, providing a through railway route.\n\nIn 1844 seaside excursions were run to Fleetwood from Manchester and it became apparent that the emerging resort of Blackpool was an attraction. Hoteliers arranged road connections to their town from Poulton. The Preston and Wyre Railway decided to build a branch to Blackpool from Poulton and an authorising Act was passed on 21 July 1845. The Blackpool branch (to Blackpool North) was built swiftly. During construction the contractor extended the temporary track used for building the line to the sea front to facilitate tipping spoil into the sea. The line opened on 29 April 1846.\nThe company decided that a branch to Lytham where there was a small harbour was worthwhile. It was authorised in the Act of 21 July 1845 to run from a junction three-quarters of a mile west of Kirkham. Construction proceeded swiftly and the branch opened on 17 February 1846. Stations were built at Wrea Green and Moss Side and the line forked to a terminus and a spur to serve the dock. Lytham Junction station was provided at the junction on the main line but it closed in 1853. Lytham portions of trains were detached and attached there until 1874.\n\nThe Manchester and Leeds Railway ran excursions over the line and amalgamation was agreed. The Preston & Wyre Railway was leased by the M&LR from 3 August 1846. The M&LR was renamed the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway the following year. The London and North Western Railway, that operated of the main line at Preston was then included in the leasing relationship, and by Act of 28 July 1849, the Preston and Wyre Railway was vested in the two railways, a two-thirds share in the L&YR and one third in the LNWR. The P&WR continued as a leased company until it was dissolved on 1 July 1888 under an LNWR Act dated 7 August of that year. A joint committee was appointed by the LNWR and the L&YR to manage the P&WR network. The line was now known as the Preston and Wyre Joint Line.\n\nThe Preston and Longridge Railway opened in 1840, connecting quarries north east of Preston to a terminal at Deepdale Street, in Preston. The company was taken over by the Fleetwood, Preston and West Riding Junction Railway in 1847 which planned to connect the Preston and Wyre line to the Longridge line by building a tunnel through high ground. Its ambitious title was justified by a plan to build eastward from the Longridge line to Clitheroe and Skipton that was never built.\n\nThe new section of line in Preston joining the Preston and Wyre Railway near Maudlands with a level crossing of the Lancaster line opened on 14 January 1850. The FP&WRJR was short of money and suspended operating the Longridge line for three weeks in 1852. The Preston and Longridge company resumed control in 1856, and later that year the FP&WRJR took over again. It opened a station at Maudland Bridge on 1 November 1856.\n\nFor some time goods and mineral wagons were transferred from the Longridge line to the Preston main line station by crossing from Maudland Bridge to the Preston and Wyre line west of the main line and reversing and using the P&WR connection on to the main line. The Longridge line built its own connection southwards, opening for passengers and goods on 1 June 1885.\n\nThe main line was doubled as far as Burn Naze by 10 August 1846. The embankment between Burn Naze and Fleetwood was to be retained as the up line and a single line, some distance from the original, following a two-mile deviation around the shore was built as the down line opening on 13 January 1851. Problems with the embankment and timber trestle sections caused the original line's abandonment at the same time. The deviation line was a single line that ran to Dock Street in Fleetwood, but entered the station from the south-west. A goods depot was built beyond the passenger station. The deviation was doubled in 1875.\n\nThe Blackpool branch was doubled by an Act of 26 May 1865, paid for by the companies in proportion.\n\nOn 17 May 1861, an Act was passed authorising the Blackpool and Lytham Railway, the future Blackpool South line. The line was ready by autumn 1862. Leisure traffic was expected to be the main income, and the winter months would be quiet and so the opening was delayed until 6 April 1863. The line did not connect to the Lytham branch of the Preston and Wyre Railway, nor at Blackpool, so the line was isolated. The company operated its own trains and had two locomotives. At least one was delivered by being hauled through the streets of Lytham by horses, because of the lack of a railway connection. An intermediate station was built at South Shore. The resort of St Annes did not yet exist.\n\nIn 1871 the independent status of the line was reviewed because of financial difficulties, and by an Act of 29 June 1871, amalgamation with the Preston and Wyre Railway was authorised, along with provision for a connecting line at Lytham.\n\nThe Lytham branch made a sharp divergence about three-quarters of a mile west of Kirkham. An Act of 1873 authorised a cut-off line, a little under a mile and a half in length and a connecting line was authorised at Lytham, connecting the Blackpool line to the original Lytham branch. Both sections were double track from opening on 1 July 1874. Lytham station on the P&WR was reduced to goods station status. The single-line link at Kirkham, now by-passed, was retained for the west-facing connection at what became called Kirkham Old Junction, enabling direct running from Lytham towards Poulton. The east-facing curve at Kirkham was closed in 1874. The Blackpool and Lytham line was doubled in 1876.\n\nThe Preston terminus of the Preston and Wyre Railway at Maudlands was close to a canal basin, but a connecting line was built to the North Union Railway's Preston station. Interconnection with other railways was important and so the Maudlands connection was retained for goods purposes but its passenger use ended in 1844. A flat crossing with the West Coast Main Line was built in 1850 when the Preston and Longridge Railway was opened. Its station was at Maudland Bridge and its line continued westwards to join the P&WR, enabling Longridge traffic to reach Fleetwood, and making an additional flat crossing of the WCML. In 1885 the flat crossings were removed, the Longridge line making an ordinary southwards junction, which the P&WR already had made.\n\nFleetwood Dock was authorised at the outset, but work only started in 1869 and was soon stopped. The Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway took over construction and it opened in 1878. The short branch to Wyre Dock was L&YR property.\nThe L&YR and the LNWR had powers to operate steamer services to Belfast, Londonderry and the Isle of Man and operated through boat trains. On 15 July 1883 a new station opened on the quay at Fleetwood for transfer from boat trains to the steamers, and traffic developed greatly. The old station was closed as the new station better served the promenade for passengers not transferring to the steamers. Some fishing vessels used Fleetwood from 1860, but in 1892 a trawler fishing fleet was established by a Grimsby firm and the town became the largest fishing port on the west coast and the third largest in Britain, with heavy fish traffic sent by rail.\n\nIn 1895 the first Club Carriage was run between Blackpool Central and Manchester, membership of the club was restricted to first-class season ticket holders who also paid a membership fee. Elaborately furnished carriages were built and for many years returned from Manchester to Blackpool each evening by the 5.10 pm and 5.55 pm residential expresses. At one time they conveyed slip portions that were detached at Kirkham. A lesser-known L&YR residential train for East Lancashire business men ran non-stop from Lytham to Rose Grove, slipping the three rear coaches at Blackburn.\n\nOn 1 May 1901 the first L&YR corridor and dining car express was introduced between Fleetwood and Leeds via Manchester, connecting with the Belfast steamer. Belfast steamer sailings from Fleetwood continued until the improvement of the Heysham service in 1928. The summer service to Douglas, Isle of Man lasted until 1961, when heavy repairs were required to the quay and the expense could not be justified. Fleetwood terminus and the line from Wyre Dock were closed on 18 April 1966. The former Wyre Dock station was renamed Fleetwood, but the passenger service between here and Poulton ceased on 1 June 1970.\n\nThe rapid and huge development of Blackpool as a holiday and trippers' destination continued in the latter decades of the nineteenth century, and the line between Preston and Kirkham was quadrupled, opening in the year 1889.\n\nThe Preston & Wyre Railway terminus in Blackpool (Talbot Road) was completely rebuilt and enlarged from 1896. The main platforms had a total length of 3,600 feet and the excursion platforms 6,300 feet; they were fully opened in the Spring of 1898.\n\nThe original alignment of the Fleetwood main line passed Poulton at some distance, so that the station was not conveniently located. When the Blackpool branch was opened in 1846, it left the Fleetwood line by a sharp curve, and there was a west curve, enabling Blackpool to Fleetwood direct running. The alignment was obviously unsatisfactory, and on 28 March 1896, a new loop line by-passing Poulton by a loop was opened, enabling a station better located for the town. The Blackpool branch left by a more gently curved line from the new Poulton station; the approach to the old Poulton station from the Preston direction was retained for goods purposes, as the town had grown towards that station over the years. A west curve on the new line was opened on 1 July 1899, and a platform called Poulton Curve Halt was opened on it on 1 February 1909, used by a railmotor service between Blackpool and Fleetwood. There were 19 trains each way daily.\n\nThe approach from Kirkham to Blackpool Central was roundabout, running via Lytham, and a new direct line was authorised by Act of 20 July 1896. It opened on 21 April 1903 for goods traffic, and to all trains on 30 May 1903. It saved five miles on the journey: it ran from a grade-separated junction at Kirkham North Junction to a junction near Blackpool South Shore, and it was known as the \"New line\" or the \"Marton line\". In winter ordinary passenger trains used the Lytham route, but in summer the traffic on the New Line was heavy. For some years the slip portion of the 5.10 pm from Manchester ran from Kirkham to Blackpool Central by this route, arriving ahead of the main train. New platforms were opened on the line at Waterloo Road, close to South Shore.\n\nAn Act of 1899 authorised a flyover approaching Kirkham for the New Line, providing a grade-separated junction.\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century, Blackpool Central station was being reconstructed, with 9,000 feet of platforms being provided; the enlarged station was opening for Easter 1901. In 1903 widening from there to the junction at South Shore was ready.\n\nOn 1 October 1913 halts were opened at Burlington Road and Gillett's Crossing when a railmotor service was introduced between Blackpool Central and Lytham. The halts were closed on 1 October 1915 but reopened on 1 March 1920, finally closing on 11 September 1939. In March 1932 Waterloo Road station was renamed Blackpool South and Talbot Road became Blackpool North. By this time the North station had 15 platforms, although eight were set apart for excursion traffic outside the overall roof.\n\nThe Blackpool tramway system was founded in 1885, and the line to Fleetwood was opened on 14 July 1888, running in a segregated alignment for much of the way.\n\nAs the coastal strip between Blackpool and Fleetwood became developed, the L&YR and LNWR sought powers to build a branch line to Cleveleys, but instead came to an agreement under which the tramway was connected with the railway at Fleetwood. Goods wagons were worked over the tramway to Cleveleys. The arrangement continued until 1949.\n\nIn 1928 a four-car diesel passenger train was installed on the Preston to Blackpool Central via Lytham service, starting on 25 July. The train was a conversion of an electric train that had been used at Bury. In September 1928 it was withdrawn for installation of a stronger bogie under the power unit. The train was put back into service for the illuminations at the end of 1928 but a crankshaft failed on 9 December and it was out of use until 27 March 1929. It was then in use for three weeks until 18 April when it was finally withdrawn and later scrapped. It had only operated for 30% of available days. Quite apart from the reliability issues, it was calculated that the operating cost savings were not sufficient to justify the capital cost of wider introduction.\n\nBlackpool was an extraordinary phenomenon of British seaside holidays, and for decades the railways had struggled to handle the volume of passengers, and the number of train movements, although this was highly seasonal. Nevertheless, road motor coaches began to handle the traffic in increasing numbers after 1945, as distances from the Lancashire and West Yorkshire industrial towns were not great. The decline in railway business in an era of scepticism about financial loss-making on the railways meant that it was impossible to sustain the former levels of train service, and of infrastructure.\n\nBlackpool Central station was closed at the end of the 1964 Illuminations period, on 2 November, and the site was sold; trains on the coast line terminated at Blackpool South, and a few years later they were only shuttle services to and from Kirkham. The Fleetwood to Blackpool passenger service had finished in 1964. On 18 April 1966, the Fleetwood line was cut back to Wyre Dock.\n\nThe New Line from Kirkham closed on 6 September 1965, although it was used for excursion trains until 13 February 1967. In 1970 the Euston-Blackpool services, which had hitherto travelled via Lytham, were diverted to the North station. In January 1974 this station was rebuilt on the site of the former excursion platforms, on a smaller scale to suit modern requirements.\n\nThe south to west connection at Kirkham, which used part of the original Lytham branch, was closed in 1967, and the retained connection to Poulton old goods station was closed in 1968; the west curve on the new line at Poulton was closed in 1972.\n\nThe passenger service between Fleetwood and Poulton ceased on 1 June 1970. The line remained open to chemical works at Burn Naze, but beyond that, Fleetwood and the docks were no longer rail-served. The entire branch from Poulton closed in 1992.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s the Blackpool South branch, as it had become, was singled, and the quadruple track between Preston and Kirkham was reduced to double track.\n\nDuring a long period of decline, the Blackpool North line became a medium-level branch from Preston, and the Blackpool South line a local shuttle subsidiary of that, from Kirkham. The Fleetwood line is no more. For some time local opinion formers have demanded better services, and electrification of the line from Preston to Blackpool North was implemented. This was commissioned in time for new passenger services to operate from 16 April 2018. There are (2020) three through trains to and from London in the timetable and a half-hourly service to Manchester. The service from Blackpool South is typically hourly.\n\nThere was a serious accident on 1 July 1893, when a light excursion train returning from Blackpool to Stockport became derailed at speed on Poulton curve. The speed limit on the curve was 6 mph, and the train considerably exceeded that speed.\n\nOn 3 November 1924 the 4:40 pm express passenger train from Liverpool Exchange to Blackpool derailed, when a tyre on the engine failed. Three traincrew and fourteen passengers were killed. There had been a large undetected metallurgical defect in the tyre.\n\nOn 16 July 1961 a collision took place near Singleton Bank signalbox, between Kirkham and Poulton. An express passenger train from Colne to Fleetwood struck an engineers' ballast train at about 45 mph. The driver and six passengers died in the collision. The ballast train was working in section but irregular operation of single line working arrangements and misunderstandings of telephone messages led to the express train being signalled through the section, so it was running under clear signals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829550", "title": "Baldwin III, Count of Flanders", "text": "Baldwin III, Count of Flanders\n\nBaldwin III (–962), called the Young, was Count of Flanders, who briefly ruled the County of Flanders together with his father, Arnulf I, from 958 until his early death.\n\nBaldwin III was born . He was the son of Count Arnulf I of Flanders and his second wife, Adele of Vermandois (c. 915 – 969). Shortly before 961, Baldwin married Matilda († 1008), daughter of Duke Hermann Billung of Saxony. They had a son, Arnulf (c. 960 – 987).\n\nArnulf I made Baldwin III co-ruler of Flanders in 958. During his short rule, Baldwin was responsible for establishing the wool manufacturing industry at Ghent and markets at other towns in Flanders. Baldwin III died on 1 January 962. After Baldwin's death, Arnulf I arranged for King Lothair of France to become the guardian of Baldwin's son, Arnulf II, who succeeded Arnulf I.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829555", "title": "Kieran McCarthy", "text": "Kieran McCarthy\n\nKieran McCarthy (born 9 September 1942) is a retired Alliance Party of Northern Ireland (APNI) politician. From 1998 to 2016 he was a member of the Northern Ireland Assembly for Strangford. He served as Assembly chief whip for APNI in the Assembly.\n\nMcCarthy was born in Newtownards and worked as a draper. In 1985 he was first elected to Ards Borough Council. In 1990 he became a Justice of the Peace. He was then elected to the Northern Ireland Peace Forum in 1996 from Strangford and has subsequently won a Northern Ireland Assembly seat there in all three elections to that body. In the 2007 elections his seat was targeted by the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP), but he won easily with a significantly increased vote.\n\nHe has stated his appreciation for the Good Friday Agreement on a number of occasions but believes a more party-aligned/devolved agreement would work more effectively.\n\nMcCarthy has stated his strong dislike for Direct Rule, causing a major democratic deficit, and in particular, was against the supposedly aggressive style of governing from the then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Peter Hain.\n"}
{"id": "1829556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829556", "title": "Adélaïde Labille-Guiard", "text": "Adélaïde Labille-Guiard\n\nAdélaïde Labille-Guiard (11 April 1749 – 24 April 1803), also known as Adélaïde Labille-Guiard des Vertus, was a French miniaturist and portrait painter. She was an advocate for women to receive the same opportunities as men to become great painters. Labille-Guiard was one of the first women to become a member of the Royal Academy and was the first female artist to receive permission to set up a studio for her students at the Louvre.\n\nLabille-Guiard became a master at miniatures, pastels, and oil paintings. Little is known about her training due to the practices of the 18th century which dictated masters (who were predominately male) should not take on female pupils. During this time, females were perceived as incapable to follow instruction alongside men. During adolescence, Labille-Guiard studied miniature painting with oil painter François-Élie Vincent and her early work was exhibited at the Académie de Saint-Luc. She apprenticed with the pastel master Quentin de la Tour until 1774.\n\nExhibitions at the Académie de Saint-Luc. Labille-Guiard was admitted to the Académie de Saint-Luc in 1767 when she was twenty years old. Her admission piece has since disappeared and sadly no records of its existence survive today. The Académie de Saint-Luc provided Labille-Guiard with a space to practice art professionally. In 1774, she exhibited her work at its Salon. This show was so successful that the Royal Academy took offence, and with the backing of the monarchy, issued an edict in March 1776 abolishing “guilds, brotherhoods, and communities of arts and crafts”, forcing the Academie de Saint-Luc to close its doors in 1777. However, this did not stop Labille-Guiard's ambitions as an artist.\n\nBecoming a member of the Royal Academy. Once the Académie de Saint-Luc closed its doors, Labille-Guiard began to learn oil painting so she could apply to the Royal Academy which required her to present at least one oil painting for admission. Labille-Guiard chose to display some of her work at the Salon de la Correspondance in 1779. This included her self-portrait in pastel and oil portraits which were well received by critics. Labille-Guiard's talent as an oil painter and pastellist was quickly noticed and she received national recognition ultimately leading to her acceptance into the Royal Academy. \nOn May 31, 1783, Labille-Guiard was accepted as a member of the French Academie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture. Three other women were admitted as members on the same day. Becoming accepted into the Royal Academy opened doors for Labille-Guiard as she gained patronage from the royal family.\n\nPainter for the Royal Family. Through pure artistic ability and talent, Labille-Guiard became a painter for the Royal family. Her royal patrons included the aunt of Louis XVI of France, Princess Marie Adélaïde and her sister Victoria Louise, and the King's sister Elizabeth and earned her a government pension of 1,000 livres. The portrait of Adélaïde completed in 1787 was one of Labille-Guiard's largest and most ambitious work to that date. She was later commissioned in 1788 by the King's brother, the Count of Provence (later Louis XVIII of France). She was instructed to paint him at the centre of a large historical work, Réception d'un chevalier de Saint-Lazare par Monsieur, Grand maître de l'ordre.\nIn 1795 she obtained artist's lodging at the Louvre and a new pension of 2,000 livres. She was the first woman artist to be permitted to set up a studio for herself and her students at the Louvre.\n\nLabille-Guiard often did not fit comfortably within the boundaries of feminine virtue in the 18th century. In order to appeal to a wide variety of viewers including upper-class men and women, she often incorporated recent fashions into her paintings which allowed her to showcase her artistic ability. She was good at rendering details, such as showing luxurious folds and layers of complex skirts that were in fashion at the time. However, often she painted with a twist such as having women face directly at the viewer or with a low neckline, which was an uncommon practice in the 18th century when portraying women.\n\nFurther evidence of Labille-Guiard's boldness can be seen in her self-portraits which leave her exposed slightly more than usual, but not enough to evoke allegations of promiscuous behaviour. This is seen in her painting \"Self-Portrait with Two Pupils\". Unlike some other paintings of female artists in the 18th century, Labille-Guiard chose to depict herself actively working rather than passive and at rest. Labille-Guiard also pushed against other restrictions, such as those that limited the number of females that could attend the Royal Academy. By depicting two female students in \"Self-Portrait with Two Pupils\", Labille-Guiard suggests more women should be allowed in to the Royal Academy. In this sense, Labille-Guiard was daring but not too daring as to sabotage her reputation and lose the respect she worked hard to gain within the art world.\n\nLabille-Guiard had an impact on her young female artists. In a letter written by a mother whose daughter studied painting with a female academic, (who, based on the description seems to be Labille-Guiard) she explained that the teacher insisted on maintaining the highest standards of modesty in her studio. Her commitment for female students was evident throughout her membership at the Royal Academy. At a meeting held on September 23, 1790, Labille-Guiard proposed that women be admitted in unlimited numbers and be permitted to serve on the institution's governing board. Both motions were approved.\n\nInstead of fleeing during the French Revolution of 1789, Labille-Guiard stayed in France. However, the royal connections she made throughout her career made her a political suspect. In 1793 she was ordered to destroy some of her royalist works, including the unfinished commission for the Count of Provence. The exile of the Comte of Provence meant Labille-Guiard had not only lost her last royal patron, but she also did not receive a cent of the agreed-upon 30,000 livres. The Revolution further hurt her career when the royal sister emigrated in February 1791 without paying for several portraits they had commissioned Labille-Guiard to paint. \nThe pastel portraits of Marie Adélaïde, Victoire-Louise, and Élisabeth stayed in Labille-Guiard's possession until she died from an illness on April 24, 1803.\n\nBorn in Paris, Labille-Guiard was the youngest of eight children. Her father, Claude-Edme Labille, was a small business owner. Her older sister Felicite married Jean Antoine Gros. In 1769 she married Nicolas Guiard from whom she separated and ended up divorcing. In 1799 she remarried the painter François-André Vincent.\n\nAmong the public collections holding works by Adélaïde Labille-Guiard are the Getty Museum, the Phoenix Art Museum, Harvard University Art Museums, the Honolulu Museum of Art, Kimbell Art Museum (Fort Worth, Texas), the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Louvre, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art (Washington, D.C.), the National Museum in Warsaw, the National Museum of Women in the Arts (Washington, D.C.), the Speed Art Museum (Kentucky) and Versailles.\n\nLabille-Guiard is a featured figure on Judy Chicago's installation piece \"The Dinner Party\", being represented in one of the 999 tiles of the \"Heritage Floor.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829561", "title": "Harold John Timperley", "text": "Harold John Timperley\n\nHarold John Timperley (1898–1954) was an Australian journalist, known for his reporting in China in the 1930s and for authoring the book \"What War Means\" (1938) based on it. Historian Hora Tomio described \"What War Means\" as \"a book which shocked awake Western intellectuals\".\n\nHe started his newspaperman career in China in 1921 and reported for the \"Manchester Guardian\" from 1928, based in Peiping (1921–1936), Shanghai (1936 – Apr? 1937, Sep 1937 – Apr 1938) and Nanjing (May? – Sep 1937). He became an advisory editor of ASIA magazine in 1934 (see ASIA of November, 1938). He married Elizabeth Chambers in Nanjing in August 1937.\n\nAfter the Japanese invasion, his accounts for the \"Guardian\" were some of the firsthand information most easily available in the West. His cables from Shanghai, although at times censored, formed the basis for some early writing on the Nanjing massacre from 1937–38.\n\nTimperley left Shanghai for London early April 1938. There, he published the book \"What War Means\", edited by him, which contains direct testimony as well as official documents. It received great attention, being published in the US under the title \"The Japanese Terror in China\". Its content has been contested by Japanese historians, including Minoru Kitamura. Minoru Kitamura proposed a view that Timperley did not appear as a witness in Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal and International Military Tribunal for the Far East because he might have been a spin doctor.\n\nTimperley became involved in an attempt to stir the United Kingdom to act on behalf of China. He was close to the Nationalists and Chiang Kai-shek; it is a matter of some dispute to what extent he was supported by them, or was engaged in propaganda work on their behalf. It is not contested that he took a strongly anti-war line, and on a personal level was friendly with Japanese including the Shanghai Domei News Agency chief Matsumoto Shigeharu. Some of the statistics Timperley used have been mis-employed by subsequent writers taking \"What War Means\" as a source.\n\nIn 1939, he gave up journalism and served for the Chinese Ministry of Information, as an advisor.\nHe continued to write on topics connected with Japan, including the nationalist thinker Yoshida Shoin, until the end of the Pacific War. From 1943, he worked for the Information Office of United Nations (Allied Powers).\n\nFrom 1946, he worked for UNRRA at its Shanghai office. \nIn 1947, the United Nations Security Council established the Good Offices Committee for Indonesia to sponsor negotiations between the country and the Netherlands, and Timperley was assigned as Deputy Principal Secretary (later to an Acting Principal Secretary) of the committee (from May 1948?) until 20 October 1948. \nAfterward, he worked for UNESCO in Paris.\n\nLeaving UNESCO in 1950, Timperley went to Indonesia as a technical advisor to the Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However a tropical disease forced him to leave Jakarta for London in 1951.\n\nNot long after his arrival in London, he came in touch with the Religious Society of Friends and was admitted to the membership in 1952. From January 1954, he threw himself into supporting the War on Want campaign and acted as full-time voluntary office worker. He organized the first War on Want Conference in May 1954.\n\nOn 25 November 1954, he was found unconscious in bed and taken to a Cuckfield hospital, but died the following day (26 November 1954).\n\nIn \"An Overview of Propaganda Operations of the International Information Division of the Central Propaganda Bureau of the Nationalist Party from 1938 to April 1941\" held in the Guomindang Historical Documents Archive in Taipei, it is clearly mentioned that \"What War Means\" was a propaganda book written to fight against the enemy, edited and printed by this organization. From this fact, Shudo Higashinakano agrees with the view of Minoru Kitamura and Akira Suzuki, that Timperley's book was a propaganda of Chinese Nationalist Party. On the other hand, Hisashi Watanabe claims that Timperley had yet no connection with Chinese Nationalist Party at the time, criticizing Minoru Kitamura. On 16 April 2015, Sankei Shimbun reported the discovery of documents detailing Timperley's activities as the head of the UK Branch of the International Information Division (London), which strongly supports his involvement in the propaganda operation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829571", "title": "FFC Cambridge process", "text": "FFC Cambridge process\n\nThe FFC Cambridge Process is an electrochemical method in which \"solid\" metal compounds, particularly oxides, are cathodically reduced to the respective metals or alloys in molten salts. It is thought that this process will eventually be capable of producing metals or alloys more efficiently than by current conventional processes, such as titanium by the Kroll process.\n\nThe FFC Cambridge process was developed by George Chen, Derek Fray and Tom Farthing between 1996 and 1997 at the University of Cambridge. (The name FFC derives from the first letters of their last names.) They reduced oxide scales on titanium foils, as well as small pellets of titanium dioxide powder, to the metal by molten salt electrochemistry. A relevant process was patented in 1904 as German patent 150557.\n\nThe intellectual property relating to the technology has been acquired by Metalysis, (Sheffield, UK).\n\nThe process typically takes place between 900 and 1100 °C, with an anode (typically carbon) and a cathode (oxide being reduced) in a bath of molten CaCl. Depending on the nature of the oxide it will exist at a particular potential relative to the anode, which is dependent on the quantity of CaO present in CaCl. The cathode is then polarised to a more negative voltages versus the anode. This is simply achieved by imposing a voltage between the anode and cathode. When polarised to more negative voltages the oxide releases oxygen ions into the CaCl salt, which exists as CaO. To maintain charge neutrality, as oxygen ions are released from the cathode into the salt, so oxygen ions must be released from the salt to the anode. This is observed as CO or CO being evolved at the carbon anode. In theory an inert anode could be used to produce oxygen.\n\nWhen negative voltages are reached, it is possible that the cathode would begin to produce Ca (which is soluble in CaCl). Ca is highly reductive and would further strip oxygen from the cathode, resulting in calciothermic reduction. However, Ca dissolved into CaCl results in a more conductive salt leading to reduced current efficiencies.\n\nThe electro-calciothermic reduction mechanism may be represented by the following sequence of reactions.\n\n(1) \n\nWhen this reaction takes place on its own, it is referred to as the \"calciothermic reduction\" (or, more generally, an example of metallothermic reduction). For example, if the cathode was primarily made from TiO then calciothermic reduction would appear as:\n\nWhilst the cathode reaction can be written as above it is in fact a gradual removal of oxygen from the oxide. For example, it has been shown that TiO does not simply reduce to Ti. It, in fact, reduces through the lower oxides (TiO, TiO, TiO etc.) to Ti.\n\nThe calcium oxide produced is then electrolyzed:\n\n(2a) \n\n(2b) \n\nand\n\n(2c) \n\nReaction (2b) describes the production of Ca metal from Ca ions within the salt, at the cathode. The Ca would then proceed to reduce the cathode.\n\nThe net result of reactions (1) and (2) is simply the reduction of the oxide into metal plus oxygen:\n\n(3) \n\nThe use of molten CaCl is important because this molten salt can dissolve and transport the O ions to the anode to be discharged. The anode reaction depends on the material of the anode. Depending on the system it is possible to produce either CO or CO or a mixture at the carbon anode:\n\nHowever, if an inert anode is used, such as that of high density SnO, the discharge of the O ions leads to the evolution of oxygen gas. However the use of an inert anode has disadvantages. Firstly, when the concentration of CaO is low, Cl evolution at the anode becomes more favourable. In addition, when compared to a carbon anode, more energy is required to achieve the same reduced phase at the cathode. Inert anodes suffer from stability issues.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829575", "title": "World Health Organization Goodwill Ambassador", "text": "World Health Organization Goodwill Ambassador\n\nWHO Goodwill Ambassadors are celebrity advocates of the World Health Organization (WHO) and use their talent and fame to advocate for health and well-being.\n\nWHO Goodwill Ambassadors, and the year they were appointed\n\nOn 21 October 2017 the WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus appointed Zimbabwe’s president Robert Mugabe as a WHO goodwill ambassador to help tackle non-communicable diseases for Africa. The appointment address praised Mugabe for his commitment to public health in Zimbabwe. The naming attracted widespread condemnation in WHO member states and international organisations due to Mugabe's poor record on human rights and presiding over a decline in Zimbabwe's public health. Following widespread criticism, Tedros Adhanom was forced to withdraw the appointment the next day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829594", "title": "Hilton Hanoi Opera", "text": "Hilton Hanoi Opera\n\nThe Hilton Hanoi Opera Hotel is located in central Hanoi in the historic French Quarter. The World Travel Awards deemed it \"Vietnam’s Leading Hotel\" for five consecutive years from 2004–2008. It features accommodations such as an outdoor swimming pool with view of the Opera House, gym, spa and sauna, Vietnamese cuisine, cabaret jazz music, ballroom, and function rooms.\n\nPerhaps more noteworthy than the hotel itself is its ironic name relation to Hỏa Lò Prison, the Vietnamese prisoner of war camp morbidly called the Hanoi Hilton by Americans captured during the Vietnam War. The camp held American soldiers from 1964 until 1973; the Hilton Hanoi Opera opened 26 years later in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829596", "title": "Valle de Bravo", "text": "Valle de Bravo\n\nValle de Bravo () is a town and municipality located in State of Mexico, Mexico. It is located on the shore of Lake Avándaro, approximately 156 km southwest of Mexico City and west of Toluca on highways 15, 134 or 1. It takes about 2 hours to drive from Mexico City to Valle de Bravo, making it a popular weekend getaway for the capital's affluent upper class.\n\nThe town has several names during its history including San Francisco del Valle de Temascaltepec, Temascaltepec de indios, Villa del Valle, and San Francisco del Valle. The original names including Temascaltepec caused confusion with the nearby \"Real de Minas de Temascaltepec\", now Temascaltepec, so the county was known as \"El Valle\" (The Valley). The honorific \"de Bravo\" was added later to recognize Nicolás Bravo who fought at the Castle of Chapultepec during the Mexican–American War. Its Coat of arms includes the image of a temazcal in reference to its original name.\n\nIn 1971, Valle de Bravo was known as \"typical city\" (\"ciudad típica\") and \"magical town\" (\"pueblo mágico\") in 2005. The town and the surrounding area are well known in Mexico as a tourist destination, mainly because it is only 2 hours away from Mexico City and for having hosted the world-famous events \"Circuito Avandaro\" (auto racing event) and \"Festival de rock y Ruedas\" (a massive rock music festival).\n\nThe first to arrive to the area were the Matlatzinca, who settled mostly in the present-day communities of Santa Maria Ahuacatlán, La Peña and Otumba. Between 1474 and 1479, the Aztec chief Axayacatl conquered the region, establishing what it would be the last addition to the Aztec Empire. After the destruction of Tenochtitlan by the Spanish, campaigns to subdue this area were carried out by Andrés de Tapia and Gonzalo de Sandoval, followed by evangelization by the Dominicans and the Augustinians. Around 1530, the Franciscan friar Gregorio Jiménez de la Cuenca founded the town as a congregation called \"El Pino\". Between 1607 and 1615, a Franciscan convent was established here, giving the town that grew up around it its original name of San Franciscano del Valle de Temascaltepec.\n\nThe town suffered greatly during the Mexican War of Independence due to the monarchy's attempts to repress the rebellion there. Another short-lived rebellion occurred in 1834 when Carlos Guadalupe Tepixtoco Abad proclaimed his plan to re-establish the empire of Moctezuma. However, most people considered the cause to be ridiculous and the movement quickly died out. The village gained town status in 1842 and city status in 1878. In the beginning of the 19th century, Professor G. Velázquez wrote the poem \"Valle de Bravo en la poesía de Pagaza\", describing the region's beauty. The town also saw incursions by Zapatistas during the Mexican Revolution.\n\nIn the 20th century, the geographic configuration of the landscape changed. In 1937, the Federal Commission on Electricity began plans for an electrical plant called Ixtapantongo, later called the \"Miguel Alemán\" hydroelectric system. Construction began in 1938 and ended in 1947 ending with a Villa Victoria Dam that flooded 2,900 hectares, creating the current reservoir which extends all the way to the state of Michoacán. The electrical plant generates 458,775 kilowatts per hour and forms a part of the water system supplying Mexico City. The town is situated on a small plateau at the foot of several hills at the edge of this lake. During the 1960s the place became world-famous for its auto racing event \"Circuito Avandaro\" which was suspended in 1969 after pilot Moisés Solana's fatal accident. On September 11–12, 1971, Valle de Bravo became the \"Mexican Woodstock\" as a large gathering of between 200,000 and 300,000 hippies from all over the country, Central and North America arrived in town to take part in the massive Festival de rock y ruedas Avandaro held in the hamlet of . As of 2005 it had a population of 22,166.\nThe dam is actually a series of dams named Valle, Tilostoc, Colorines, Ixtapantongo and the newest at Santo Tomás de los Plátanos. With the creation of the lake came the development of exclusive resort facilities such as hotels, golf clubs, country cabins, sailing clubs and a myriad of restaurants.\n\nThe town's principal economic activities center around tourism. It is a very popular location for weekend visits, especially from residents of Mexico City and Toluca. Holidays such as New Year's Eve and Semana Santa bring large numbers of visitors to the town leading to strong recommendations to arrange lodging well in advance. Other yearly events include the Festival Vallesano (March) where people participate in sporting, horseback-riding, art exhibitions and food-tasting events as well as cultural and musical performances. However, the largest annual celebration is the cultural festival known as the Festival de las Almas (Festival of the Souls) which has occurred each of the last five years in late September or early October. The 2007 festival brought in 4.5 million pesos to the area with 8 days of festivities, 151 programmed events centered on film, dance, art exhibitions, music, literature, workshops and theater, as well as Day of the Dead altars. It has spread to include events in Apaxco, Cuautitlán Izcalli, Ciudad Nezahualcóyotl, Temascalcingo, Texcoco and Toluca. This event featured \"Alan\" State Dance Troupe from Ossetia Alania, Russia as well as artists from thirteen other countries. Roughly 160–170,000 people attended the event.\n\nTemple of Santa María Ahuacatlán was originally a chapel when it was started in 1864 but has been converted into a church which is still under construction. The main altar contains a Black Christ which is still worshipped. Inside the church are extremely large canvases by Phillippa, an English artist who was recently commissioned. These canvases depict the relationship between Mazahua legend and the Black Christ.\n\nThe Parish of Saint Francis of Asisi used to have two very large naves constructed by the Franciscans, one nave for the Spanish and one for the indigenous people. All that is preserved from the 17th century are the baptismal font, the holy water font and a carving of Saint Francis which is located in a vaulted niche in the present-day main nave. Other, more recent features of the church include murals and Italian oil paintings. The main bell was cast during the Mexican Revolution. The third and main nave was constructed in the 1950s in which all residents of the town participated; however, this project was not terminated until 1994.\n\nThe Casa de la Cultura (House of Culture) is located in front of the municipal dock on Lake Avandaro. Classes are given there in activities such as aerobics, music and painting to children and adults. It also hosts conferences and workshops on natural medicine as well as art expositions. The complex includes a library, a ballroom, a cafe, exhibition rooms and an auditorium. Also, the workshop of painter Ismael Ramos is found here.\n\nThe Joaquín Arcadio Pagaza Museum is dedicated to the conservation, research and spread of the region's cultural history. It features objects that were the property of Don Joaquín Arcadio Pagaza, a notable person here. It displays paintings and sculpture from local, national and international artists. It also supports literature by sponsoring conferences, films, theatre and other events. It also offers courses and workshops in fine arts, music and literature as well as a library.\n\nThe Municipal Boardwalk and Dock, on the edge of Lake Avandaro, is the main attraction in the town. There are a number of restaurants on the boardwalk and some that float alongside the dock. On weekends, artists display and sell their work here. Boats for excursions on the lake can be rented here as well as horses. It's an artificial lake where you can practice water sports and enjoy trips on a yacht or on a boat. On the banks of this river there are more than 42 nautical clubs. It is great for navigation, sailing, and water-skiing.\n\nThe Jardín Central (Central Garden) is located on the side of the Parish of San Francisco. There is live music at the bandstand on Sunday afternoons and street food such as corn, campechanas, tacos, pambazos and traditional ice cream for sale. A bust of Nicolás Bravo, for whom the town was named also stands in this location.\n\nOne major sport In Valle is paragliding. The Fédération Aéronautique Internationale designated Valle to be the host of the 2009 World Championship, with 150 competitors from more than 40 countries. The Monarca Paragliding Open, an annual paragliding winter competition held in Valle de Bravo and Temascaltepec, will have the ninth edition in January–February 2011. In addition to paragliding, ultralight flying is popular. Age is not a factor in who can participate; however, first-time fliers do so in tandem.\n\nAt Valle de Bravo you can enjoy safe night life but also you can enjoy sunny days and at night you can go to many bars and restaurants located in downtown. You can find bars like Camelia, Naha, Enebro, Sheep Bar, La Escala, Bar de los Artistas, La Casona Terraza Bar. Clubs like Mango, Pachanga, Morrison's, Pila Seca, El Relampago and Santo y Seña but the two most attractive are located in the middle of the lake of Valle de Bravo.\n\nValle de Bravo was named a \"Pueblo Mágico\" in 2005.\n\nAs municipal seat, the town of Valle de Bravo has governing jurisdiction over the following communities: San Mateo Acatitlán, El Aguacate, Los Álamos, Calderones, La Candelaria, El Castellano, El Cerrillo (San José el Cerrillo), La Compañía (Cerro Colorado), Cerro Gordo, Colorines, Loma Bonita, La Compañía (Tres Espigas), Cuadrilla de Dolores, Rancho Espinos, El Fresno (El Fresno la Compañía), Godínez Tehuastepec, La Laguna, Loma de Chihuahua, Loma de Rodríguez, El Manzano, Mesa de Jaimes, Mesa de Dolores (Mesa de Dolores 2a. Secc.), Los Pelillos, Peña Blanca, Los Pozos (Pinar de Osorios), Santa María Pipioltepec (Pipioltepec), San José Potrerillos (Potrerillos), Rincón de Estradas, San Antonio, San Gabriel Ixtla, San Gaspar, San Juan Atezcapan, San Nicolás Tolentino, San Ramón, San Simón el Alto, Santa Magdalena Tiloxtoc, Santa Rosa, Santa Teresa Tiloxtoc, Los Saucos, Tenantongo, La Volanta, Casas Viejas, Mesa Rica (La Finca), Mesa de Palomas, Atesquelites (Tres Quelites), La Boquilla (Cerro el Cualtenco la Boquilla), El Durazno, La Mecedora, Escalerillas, Tehuastepec (San José Tehuastepec), Tierra Grande (La Loma), El Arco, Barrio de Guadalupe, Las Joyas, Mata Redonda (Paso Hondo), Mesa de Dolores 1a. Secc. (Mesa del Rayo), La Palma, Piedra del Molino, Rancho Avándaro Country Club, El Aguacate (El Aserradero), Agua Fría, La Huerta San Agustín, Tres Puentes, Colonia Rincón Villa del Valle, Colonia Valle Escondido, Monte Alto, Las Ahujas, El Trompillo, Gallinas Blancas, Barranca Fresca, Santo Tomás el Pedregal, Los Tizates, as well as about 40 unnamed settlements. The total 2005 population of the municipality was 52,902.\n\nValle de Bravo became a municipality in 1852. It borders with the municipalities of Donato Guerra, Temascaltepec, Amanalco, Ixtapan del Oro, Santo Tomás de los Plátanos and Otzoloapan, with a territorial area of 421.95 km. This municipality belongs to the 7th Region of Mexico State. The counties Donato Guerra, Ixtapan del Oro, Santo Tomás de los Plátanos, Otzoloapan, and Zacazonapan also belong to this Region.\n\nThe municipality is surrounded by mountain ranges and other elevated areas covering about 50% of the total area and include the Sierra de Temascaltepec, Sierra de Tenayac, Sierra de Valle de Bravos as wells as the hills that roll around the mountain ranges. These elevations include a number of small volcanoes such as the \"Cerro Gordo\". 30% of the area is semi-flat with only 20% of the surface being plains. The main river of the area is the Río Balsas, whose system includes the tributaries of El Salto, Barranca Honda, Tiloxtoc rivers.\n\nValle de Bravo's weather is mild- humid. It rains during summer: it starts in June and ends in September. The warmest months are: May, June, July and August. The average temperature is 17.5 °C (63.50 °F). The minimum temperature is 1.3 °C (34.34 °F) and the maximum is 32 °C (89.60 °F).\nJust south of the town of Valle de Bravo is a small village called Avandaro, which hosted the \"Rock y Ruedas\" festival in September 1971. Just outside it is the Velo de la Novia (Bride's Veil) waterfall, where the San Juan creek drops 35 meters in the middle of relatively untouched forest. The area has been converted into a natural park.\n\nThe Maranatha Retreat lies just to the north of Valle de Bravo. It used to be a Carmelite convent, but today it is open to people of all faiths. It was built in the 1860s and 1870s by Father Miguel Angel Perez Alonso fusing elements of Byzantine, Mediterranean, Mexican Baroque and Asian architecture. Also to the north is the village of La Peña, which is on a high peak above the treeline. Here are some archeological remnants of Mazahua and Matlatzinca origin.\n\nValle de Bravo also lies in the wintering grounds of the monarch butterfly. Piedra Herrada, located 25 km east of the town on the north side of the Los Saucos highway, is a federal reserve for the protection of the butterflies. In this sanctuary, visitors can rent horses to explore the sanctuary as well as a guide. The butterflies can be found all winter long at the top of the mountaintop in the abundant fir trees.\n\nOutside of the town of Valle de Bravo, agriculture is still intensively practiced, growing crops like corn, beans, potatoes, peas, fava biena, tomatoes onions and other vegetable and some other grains. Most crops are produced for autoconsumption but some, like potatoes and peas are grown for commercial purposes. Some livestock is also raised here, but it is nearly all for autoconsumption. There is also some industrial production, mainly of ceramics, furniture and construction materials. The Valle de Bravo area attracts more than 3,751,822 persons annually, who contribute more than 2,617 million pesos annually to the municipality's economy, making it the key sector to municipal development. 60% of the municipality's jobs are generated through tourism.\n\nThe municipality still has indigenous communities with Nahuas, Matlatzinca and Purépecha and their languages can be still heard. Most of the people living there are Catholic, but there are also evangelical Christians or Protestant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829599", "title": "Karima Shapandar", "text": "Karima Shapandar\n\nOmega Sentinel (Karima Shapandar) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is associated with the X-Men and its spinoff Excalibur.\n\nKarima Shapandar first appeared in \"X-Men Unlimited,\" vol. 1 #27 (June 2000) and was created by Chris Claremont and Brett Booth.\n\nShapandar was a police officer from India who was transformed into an Omega Prime Sentinel by Bastion of the program. It all started when Karima was dispatched to look after Neal Shaara (who would later become known as Thunderbird). Neal was looking for his brother, Sanjit, who had gone missing while researching some mysterious disappearances in Calcutta. A bond quickly developed between the two, and they were on the verge of beginning a romantic relationship when they were attacked and captured by Bastion. Neal learned that Sanjit had become a Prime Sentinel, programmed to seek out and destroy mutants. Bastion intended to do the same to Neal and Karima, but the morphing process catalyzed Neal's latent mutant power, which destroyed the building around him. Sanjit fought his programming long enough to disable the other Sentinels, but died in the process.\n\nAs Neal cradled Sanjit's body, Shapandar quietly told Neal to run. She had discovered that she was a Prime Sentinel; humans transformed into sentinels and set up as 'sleeper' agents, unaware of their programming until a nearby mutant activated them (as in Neal's usage of his mutant powers).\n\nNeal refused, saying he loved Karima. Karima begged him to leave, saying she couldn't hold on much longer. Neal was forced to flee.\n\nKarima later resurfaces on the decimated island of Genosha, where she encounters Charles Xavier and Magneto. The two were able to disable her Sentinel programming and restore her mind, but the technological modifications to her body remained.\n\nKarima stayed on the island with the others, working as a police officer to restore order. She is trying to adjust to her new form, which comes into conflicts with her Hindu beliefs. It is assumed she left the island with most of the other residents after Decimation.\n\nThe X-Men discovered a disassembled Karima, along with Lady Mastermind in a lab of the Fordyce Clinic that was testing on mutants to see if someone can catch mutation like a disease. Beast reassembled her, but she appears to have lost part of her memory from the moment she got disassembled. Rogue officially recruited her onto the team to help fight the Children of the Vault.\n\nSince then she was able to help fix a teleporter in the search to find Pandemic, helping in the fight to defeat him. After Rogue was infected with a virus by Pandemic, Cable took the team to his island so Rogue could be cared for. On the island, Karima helped the team and the island residents who were attacked by the Hecatomb.\n\nOmega Sentinel is possessed by Malice, who is now a digital entity instead of a psionic one, via email virus; thus, she unwillingly ends up joining the new Marauders. The other X-Men, save Emma Frost, were unaware of her being possessed until they were attacked by her along with the rest of the new Marauders, including Mystique and Lady Mastermind. She later fights alongside the other Marauders in Flint, Michigan, against Iceman and Cannonball, as both sides try to obtain the Diaries of Destiny.\n\nAlong with fellow Marauders Sunfire, Gambit, Prism, Blockbuster, Lady Mastermind, and Scalphunter, Malice travels to Cooperstown, Alaska to find the baby but instead come across the Purifiers and they come to blows.\n\nThe next time she is seen, she is fighting Colossus along with Arclight, Frenzy, and Unuscione. She then teams up with Lady Mastermind in taking out Wolverine by throwing a disguised Scrambler at him. After he realizes the deception, she hits him with an energy blast. While asking him about how he wants to die, Nightcrawler teleports in and knocks her out along with Lady Mastermind.\n\nShe recovers and joins Gambit, Sunfire and Vertigo when they confront Bishop, who is about to kill the baby. She seems to show a lot of affection towards the baby and finds it extraordinary that she isn't scared at all when she picks her up. She is present when Gambit delivers the baby to Mystique (in the guise of Mister Sinister) at the Marauders' base on Muir Isle and later battles the X-Men, X-Factor and X-Force when they arrive to take the baby. During the final battle over the child, Omega Sentinel is stabbed and somehow incapacitated by Pixie's Soul Dagger.\n\nAfter the events of Messiah Complex, Karima manages to recover being taken over by the digital Malice, but has no memory of the events that took place, apparently a side effect of being wounded with Pixie's Soul Dagger. All she knows is that some of her files have been infected or damaged by a virus and can no longer access them in case of reinfection. She stayed with the Acolytes, saying the only reason she is there is because Professor Xavier was there for her when she was first turned into a Sentinel.\n\nAfter asking Magneto which of their philosophies was right, Karima helps Magneto to revive the Professor from his coma and defends him against Joanna Cargill's murder attempt. Karima tries to stop Cargill by bombarding her with microwave radiation, but her physical invulnerability proves to be too much for her, and Cargill severely damages her. Magneto manages to stop Cargill from killing Xavier by firing a surgical laser into her eye when Exodus shows up and after trying to kill Magneto, engages the Professor in a fight on the astral plane.\n\nWhen they finish their skirmish, Karima, Magneto, and Xavier leave the Acolytes and as Xavier parts with Karima and Magneto, he asks them not to follow him.\n\nLater, Xavier returns to New Avalon and convinces Exodus to disband the Acolytes and find a new way to help mutantkind. While Exodus embarks on a personal pilgrimage to this effect, Karima, along with Amelia Voght and Random decide to relocate to San Francisco.\n\nFollowing Cable's death at the end of \",\" Karima can be seen attending the memorial service for Cable.\n\nTo help deal with the damage to San Francisco done by Bastion and his forces, Cyclops puts together a team of X-Men including Karima. On the boat trip to the mainland, Karima reveals to Psylocke she has been experiencing some glitches as of late, not knowing that she is actually suffering from the virus unleashed on the Nimrod sentinels during \".\"\n\nArriving at the worksite for a building, Karima is paired with Danger and told to help excavate the site. As the day goes on, Karima's glitches get worse, and while helping Colossus, she accidentally shoots him with a powerful laser. She decides to sit out for a bit to check on her systems, but her Sentinel technology begins to take over, identifying the threat levels of each of the X-Men present, much to Karima's confusion. Suddenly, against her will, she flies towards Hellion and Hope Summers and begins attacking them. Assessing that Hope is the biggest threat present, she punches Hellion and tells Hope to run. When Hope questions Karima, she replies that it's too late and fires a laser blast at Hope.\n\nKarima continues battling her fellow X-Men, and when her human side reasserts itself, she asks Hellion to put her out of her misery. He does so, cutting loose with his telekinetic abilities and causing massive damage to Omega Sentinel, who is left in a coma, possibly brain dead. Her body is moved to a stasis tank in the X-Men's lab.\n\nKarima's body is later reactivated and possessed by Arkea, a sentient bacterium and the sister of John Sublime. After taking control of much of the Jean Grey School's systems, Arkea begins to hunt down her brother for revenge from when he tried to kill her after they were formed, but is forced to retreat when she is confronted by Kitty Pryde, whose powers can destroy her systems. A group of X-Men and Sublime hunt her down to the crash site of the meteor in which she arrived on Earth, and confront her in a hospital specializing in mechanical implants. Karima manages to gain momentary control of her body and plunges Psylocke's psychic knife into her own head, apparently purging Arkea from her body and returning her to normal. After being given a complete physical test by Beast, he tells Karima her Omega Sentinel technology has been rendered inert due to Arkea's possession of her and that she is essentially human again. She decides to remain with the X-Men regardless of this, going on many more adventures with the female dominant mutant team until she decided to leave of her own accord as she had been offered a place alongside Sabra and Gabriel Shephard, two mutants they had recently worked alongside whilst hunting for Arkea. Karima left with them in the hopes that she would finally get back to the job she trained for many years ago.\n\nSomehow her sentinel programming was reactivated again and she now travels with members of a new mutant monitoring/profiling organization called Orchis to a new habitat built for humanity. Headed as the premiere doomsday network prepped in case of the extinction level event pertaining to the population density of Homo Superior; the Orchis Group is backed by numerous clandestine party assets, amongst other black budget and human-centric financial considerations, stemming from A.I.M, S.H.I.E.L.D, Alpha Flight, H.A.M.M.E.R, Hydra, etc. In fact, the lines between Karima’s consciousness and the Sentinel programming started to blur as she edged more and more towards a complete Sentinel takeover. It wasn’t only a mental change she was going through, the once inert physical components of the Omega Sentinel tech had also reactivated, replacing much of her organic tissue in the process. When discussing the use of machines on the Forge, she referred to them as her brothers and sisters and appeared to have more of a connection with them than with any of her human companions.\n\nKarima is fitted with Omega-Prime Sentinel nanite technology which gives her superhuman strength, speed, reflexes, and endurance. She also has flight capacity, adaptive regeneration to repair any physical injury/damage she receives, and several projectile weapons, including high energy power blasts, as well as electrostatic poles built into her forearms that generate massive amounts of electrical energy and microwave radiation emitters. Her strength and durability were enhanced after she was rebuilt by the Beast. She appears to show limited technopathy and machine control, due to being able to \"find\" information from machines, and having the ability to control nanites in others' blood. She also has life-support technology built into her systems as evidenced in \"X-Men: Legacy\" #208 (Apr. 2008). When possessed by the biocybernetic enzyme known as Arkea, Karima showcased a number of abilities she'd never readily accessed before such as greater machine and cybernetics control than previously displayed coupled with long range Teleportation capabilities.\n\nBefore she was a detective in India, she was trained in basic combat skills, identity tracking, and other basic skills that come with being a human detective. She also possesses knowledge on how to work most basic and advanced Earth-based technology.\n\nShe appears in the House of M still as an Omega Sentinel but as the leader of the Sentinel Police for the House of Magnus.\n\nKarima briefly appears fighting alongside the other X-Men in outer space. Not much is known about her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829600", "title": "Charyn Canyon", "text": "Charyn Canyon\n\nCharyn Canyon (also known as Sharyn Canyon, , \"Sharyn shatqaly\") is a canyon on the Sharyn River in Kazakhstan ( east of Almaty, close to the Chinese border). The canyon is roughly in length. It is part of the Charyn National Park (established on 23 February 2004), and is located within the territory of the Uygur District, Raiymbek District and Enbekshikazakh District (of the Almaty Province). Over time, the canyon has gained colorful formations of varying shapes and sizes. Though it is much smaller than the Grand Canyon, it has been described as being equally impressive.\n\nCharyn canyon is a unique natural object with peculiar relief forms in the form of chapels, towers, animals, etc., which were formed under the influence of weathering of sedimentary rocks.\n\nSome scholars think that the name of the river is derived from the Uyghur word 'Sharyn' meaning \"ash tree\". There is also another interpretation that it is a derivative of the Turkic root word 'Char', which means a \"precipice\". Both these interpretations fit the site conditions where the terrain is precipitous, and ash trees are found.\n\nThe canyon consists of a formation along the banks of the Charyn River of approximately ( is also stated). The river has a total length of . The river originates from the Tian Shan Mountains (meaning: \"Heavenly Mountains\",) that is spread over the arid semi-desert to eastern Almaty. In various places, it attains a depth of .\n\nThe geological formation of the canyon consists of sedimentary red sandstone that has been subject to the \"atmogenic process\" (defined in Websters dictionary as \"atmospheric origin by condensation, wind action, or deposition from volcanic vapors\") of water and wind erosion resulting in \"rare and colourful formations\" in the form of sculptures.\n\nThe canyon can be accessed from Almaty on the main road that passes through the villages Chilik, Baiseit, and Kokpek (at a distance of about ). From there, a signposted road leads to the parking area of the canyon over a distance of , and passes through the Sharyn (or Charyn) National Park. From the parking area, there is a track that leads to the canyon. Another path from the park (which is in length), leads to an area where views of the canyon are more scenic.\n\nThe Temirlik is a tract and natural environmental object. The Canyon of Temirlik River within a band of foothills of a mountain river Charyn included in a protected area of Saranskiy National Park formed in 2004. The protection of the object is by the administration of the Charyn state unitary enterprise. \nOn the territory of this object was a huge lake before. The foothill plain of the Ketmen range is composed of rocks that are deposits of red clay mixed with crushed stone and remnants of rocks that exposed by the Temirlik River, the right tributary of the Charyn. (\"Temir\" – from Turk - iron). The Temirlik River originates in the peaks of the Ketmen range (from Kazakh - Ketpen-a chain of high mountains (in the East of Almaty region). The other name of the ridge is Uzynkara, which is translates as “long mountain” from Kazakh language. At this point, the river is relatively wide, shallow and calm. There are some species of prehistoric flora and fauna — Sogdian ash in the valley of the Charyn River (Sharyn), one of the largest left tributaries of the Ili River.\nThe current shape of the gorge acquired about a million years ago. Like all canyons cut by river waters, the Temirlik appears across the road unexpectedly, it is difficult to notice it from a distance. \nA canyon up to one and a half kilometers wide and a gorge up to 160 meters deep represent the middle part of the Temirlik River. The length of the tract is 11 km. there are canopies, narrow slits, corridors, niches everywhere on the slopes of the gorge. They give the area a special appearance. The picturesque canyon with fancy pillars, winding corridors and crevices is very similar to its \"older brother\", the famous Charyn canyon, and the green strip is tight framed by red rocks of low rock formations makes an extraordinary impression and creates a picture of a colorful wild corner of nature. \nThe scientist, naturalist, entomologist and writer P. I. Marikovsky named the Temirlik tract Nightingale canyon. The singing of the Nightingale is the main Symphony of this area. The Marikovskiy assumed that in the tract lived people who found and processed iron ore.\n\nThe Charyn Canyon stretches 154 km along the Charyn River (one of the deepest rivers of the Northern Tien Shan mountains). Wind, water and sand sculpted Charyn's red sandstone to form its shapes and shades. Some of the cliffs resemble particular figures, which is why some parts of the canyon are also called the \"Valley of Castles\", the Witch's Gorge, and the Ghosts Gorge.\n\nThe multicolored rock layers are the product of different stages of sediment deposits, which includes volcanic lava rocks at the bottom, andred debris on top. The Charyn Canyon consists of 5 different canyons: the Valley of Castles (the most popular part of the Charyn Canyon), the Temirlik Canyon, the Yellow Canyon, the Red Canyon and the Bestamak Canyon. There are also a number of smaller canyons or tracts, including the Kurtogay Canyon and the Tazbas tract.\n\nAdventure sports activities in the river include white-water rafting and canoeing. Fishing for the local species of fish called \"Naked Osman\" is also common. Further downstream of the canyon, a dry zone of the gorge called the Red canyon or \"Valley of Castles\" is located. It stretches over about 1 km and has a depth of about . There is a track at the valley of the gorge that has naturally sculpted red stone formations.\n\nThe Relic Forest is located approximately away from the canyon. The forest, located under the umbrage of the canyon. is known as the \"Sogdian ash\" (Ash Tree) (a tree that is said to be a derivative from the Ice age). The site is considered unique on various accounts. It was declared a protected reserve in 1964. It is now integrated with the Charyn National Park. Apart from the Ash Tree, other tree categories in the area include the willow, poplar, and barberry.\n\nThe area can be accessed from a road originating at Almaty that passes through Kokpek, Shonzy and Zharkent. One of the most striking parts of the canyon is known as \"Valley of Castles\", for its unusual rock formations created by wind, sun, and water and vertical cliffs reminding the ancient castles.\n\nThe nature monument is protected by the state and the Charyn state Park with the status of a nature conservation and scientific institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829601", "title": "Vicovu de Sus", "text": "Vicovu de Sus\n\nVicovu de Sus (; ) is a town in northern Suceava County, on the border with Ukraine. It is situated in the historical region of Bukovina. The town administers one village, Bivolărie.\n\nIt was bought by Ștefan cel Mare for Putna Monastery in the year 1466. The locality, previously a rural commune, received town status in 2004.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, there was a total population of 13,053 people living in the town. Of this population, 94.7% were ethnic Romanians and 5% ethnic Romani. 76.7% were Romanian Orthodox, 20.9% Pentecostal and 2% Baptist.\n"}
{"id": "1829605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829605", "title": "Aksu Canyon", "text": "Aksu Canyon\n\nAksu Canyon is a 15 km long and 500m deep canyon in Kazakhstan. It is situated in the north-west of the Tian Shan mountain range 200 km north-east of Tashkent. It has an alpine character with nearby mountains reaching over 4000m. The Aksu-Djabagly Nature Reserve, though relatively small in area, is rich in wildlife and included in the UNESCO world heritage site Western Tian Shan.\n"}
{"id": "1829611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829611", "title": "Paul Passy", "text": "Paul Passy\n\nPaul Édouard Passy (; 13 January 1859, Versailles21 March 1940, Bourg-la-Reine) was a French linguist, founder of the International Phonetic Association in 1886.\nHe took part in the elaboration of the International Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nPaul Passy was born into a notable French family: his father Frédéric, a noted economist and politician, was the first recipient (along with Henry Dunant) of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1901. Passy mastered English, German, and Italian as a child, and studied Sanskrit and Gothic Latin at the École des Hautes Études. He graduated from university at 19 and spent ten years as a language teacher (English and German) in public schools as an alternative to military service. Around this time he also became a committed Christian.\n\nPassy was largely self-taught in phonetics; his interest was prompted by his dissatisfaction with the methods of language teaching at the time. In 1886, Passy founded the Phonetic Teachers' Association, which later became the International Phonetic Association. His friend Otto Jespersen was an early member of the association.\n\nPassy gave private lessons in phonetics and French pronunciation at his home in Bourg-la-Reine; among his students was Daniel Jones. In 1894, he took up a chair in General and Comparative Phonetics at the École des Hautes Études (a position created especially for him), and by 1897 had become an assistant director of the school. Apart from a four-year hiatus beginning in 1913, when he was dismissed on political grounds for opposing an extension to mandatory military service, he remained at the École des Hautes Études until his retirement in 1926.\n\nIn 1896, he began to give lectures and practical phonetics classes at the Sorbonne, where he was the first teacher to insist that women be allowed to attend his classes.\n\nPassy was devoted to Christian socialism. He founded an agricultural colony called \"Liéfra\", named after \"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\", near Fontette, Aube.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829614", "title": "FC Martigues", "text": "FC Martigues\n\nFootball Club de Martigues, known as FC Martigues, is a French professional football club which plays in the Championnat National 2, the fourth level of football in France. The club was founded in 1921 and played regional football until the early 1970s when they gained promotion to the professional Second Division.\n\nThe club's greatest achievement was winning promotion to the First Division in 1993. The club played for three seasons in the top flight, until it was relegated down to Ligue 2 in 1996. A failed attempt to win promotion at once was followed by relegation to the Championnat National (third level) in 1998. Two years later the club won promotion back to Second Division, but only remained at that level for two seasons.\n\nIn 2002, the club was relegated again and after another near miss at promotion in 2003, financial problems saw the club go into liquidation and reform in the Championnat de France Amateur. They finished the 2006–2007 season in the Championnat National as 14th. They were relegated to CFA in 2007–2008 season as 19th in the Championnat National.\n\nThe club plays at the Stade Francis Turcan, which has a capacity of 11,500, in Martigues. Their principal rivals are FC Istres.\n\nFamous players who have played for FC Martigues include: Stéphane Pounewatchy, Ali Benarbia, Eric Cantona, Éric Di Meco, Noé Pamarot and Tomasz Frankowski.\n\nAs of 9 April 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1829615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829615", "title": "Holy Book of the Great Invisible Spirit", "text": "Holy Book of the Great Invisible Spirit\n\nTwo versions of the formerly lost Holy Book of the Great Invisible Spirit, also informally called the Coptic Gospel of the Egyptians (which is quite distinct from the Greek Gospel of the Egyptians), were among the codices in the Nag Hammadi library, discovered in 1945. It received the name because towards the end of the text it is also expressed as the “Egyptian Gospel.” Although it is possible that it was written in Egypt, it is far more likely that the name is based on connections made between Seth of the Old Testament and Set, the ancient Egyptian god of violence, chaos, and storms. This Gospel differs from the Gospel of Philip and the Gospel of Truth in that it is not from a Valentinian perspective and instead focuses on a viewpoint rooted in Sethianism.\n\nThe main contents concern the Sethian Gnostic understanding of how the earth came into being, how Seth, in the Gnostic interpretation, is incarnated as Jesus in order to release people's souls from the evil prison that is creation. More specifically, the text can be divided into four parts concerning the creation of the heavenly world: the creation of the heavenly world, the creation and significance of the race of Seth, a hymn, and the history behind the creation of the text itself\n\nIt also contains a hymn, parts of which are unusual in being apparently meaningless sequences of vowels (thought to be a representation of early Christian glossolalia), although the vowels of the final paragraph (\"u aei eis aei ei o ei ei os ei\") can be partitioned to read (in Greek) \"who exists as Son for ever and ever. You are what you are, you are who you are\". One explanation could be that these vowels are connected to the divine name YHWH. Another possibility is that the vowels could represent a secret, sacred way for the soul of the reader to move closer to gnosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829616", "title": "Silazane", "text": "Silazane\n\nA silazane is any hydride of silicon and nitrogen having a straight or branched chain of silicon and nitrogen atoms joined by covalent bonds. By extension, the word is also used for any organic derivative of such compounds. They are analogous to siloxanes, with -NH- replacing -O-. Their individual name is dependent on the number of silicon atoms in the chemical structure. Hexamethyldisilazane contains two silicon atoms bonded to the nitrogen atom.\nThe majority of silazanes are moisture sensitive.\n"}
{"id": "1829624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829624", "title": "Cynopolis", "text": "Cynopolis\n\nCynopolis ( for \"city of the dog\") was the Hellenistic toponym for two cities in Ancient Egypt. Both Cynopolis superior and Cynopolis inferior were bishoprics in Christian times.\n\nCynopolis was the Greek name for the ancient Egyptian town of Saka (or Hardai?); () in the seventeenth nome of Upper Egypt, was home to the cult of Anubis, a canine-shaped deity. According to Claudius Ptolemy, the town was situated on an island in the river. The modern settlement of El Kays now stands on the site. The nome of Cynopolis extended to both banks of the Nile.\n\nA burial ground for dogs was discovered on the opposite bank of the Nile, near Hamatha. The neighbouring cities were rivals according to Plutarch, who wrote (\"De Iside\", 72) that when a Cynopolis resident ate an Oxyrhynchos fish, the people of Oxyrhynchos started attacking dogs in revenge, which resulted in a minor civil war.\n\nCynopolis was destroyed by the viceroy of Nubia Pinehesy during the reign of Ramses XI: the survivors were enslaved.\n\nThe diocese, which became obscure under Islam, was nominally restored in 1933 as a Latin Catholic titular bishopric. It was named Cynopolis in Aegypto. The see has been vacant for several decades, having had the following incumbents, both of the lowest (episcopal) rank:\n\nThere was a second Cynopolis, referred to as \"Cynopolis Inferior\" or \"Cynum\", which was located in the Busirite nome in Lower Egypt (the Nile delta), now modern Meniet ebn Kasib.\nIt was a suffragan bishopric of Oxyrhynchus, the Metropolitan Archbishopric and provincial capital of the Late Roman province of Arcadia Aegypti.\n\nThe diocese was nominally restored in 1922 as a Latin Catholic titular bishopric under the name Cynopolis. In 1933 the name of the see was changed to Cynopolis in Arcadia. The see has been vacant for several decades. The incumbents from 1922 to 1968 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "1829625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829625", "title": "North Cornwall (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North Cornwall (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth Cornwall is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament by Scott Mann, a Conservative since the 2015 general election. Like all British constituencies, the seat elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election at least every five years. The seat was created in 1918. Since 1950, the constituency has been held by MPs from either the Conservative Party or the Liberal Democrats (including the party's predecessor, the Liberal Party).\n\nThis constituency was created under the Representation of the People Act 1918.\n\nWith exceptions in 1997 and 2001 the seat's margin of victory has been less than 20% of the vote; it has been consistently fought over between and won by the Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats's candidate (or predecessor party in the latter case), and can be considered a marginal seat. In 1997 and 2001 the seat turned out strongly overall for the latter party. However, in the 2019 general election, the Conservatives won a large majority of 28.6% over the Liberal Democrat candidate.\n\nA third-placed (other party) candidate has not polled more in North Cornwall than 16.38%, which took place in 1951. The seat saw three years of defection of its Liberal MP to join the post-World War II Attlee Ministry however in 2015 saw the lowest share of the Labour Party's vote nationally – reinforcing a consistent result by a great majority supporting left-wing politics to vote for a Liberal and later Liberal Democrat at general elections since the seat's inception.\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Launceston, the Urban Districts of Newquay, Padstow, Stratton and Bude, and Wadebridge, the Rural Districts of Calstock, Camelford, Launceston, St Columb Major, and Stratton, and parts of the Rural Districts of Bodmin and Holsworthy (these areas such as Whitstone and Week St Mary were on the Cornish side of the border).\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Launceston, the Urban Districts of Bude-Stratton, Newquay, and Padstow, the Rural Districts of Camelford, Launceston, and Stratton, and parts of the Rural Districts of St Austell and Wadebridge.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Launceston, the Urban Districts of Bude-Stratton and Newquay, the Rural Districts of Camelford, Launceston, and Stratton, and parts of the Rural Districts of St Austell, and Wadebridge and Padstow.\n\n1983–2010: The District of North Cornwall wards of Allan, Altarnun, Bodmin St Mary's, Bodmin St Petroc, Bude and Poughill, Camelford, Grenville, Lanivet, Launceston North, Launceston South, Lesnewth, North Petherwin, Ottery, Padstow and St Merryn, Penfound, Rumford, St Breward, St Endellion, St Minver, St Teath, South Petherwin, Stratton, Tintagel, Trigg, Wadebridge, and Week St Mary, and the Borough of Restormel wards of Edgcumbe, Gannel, Rialton, St Columb, and St Enoder.\n\n2010–present: The District of North Cornwall.\n\nHistorically four borough constituencies lay within the boundaries, three of which were abolished as 'rotten boroughs' by the Great Reform Act, 1832:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829628", "title": "South East Cornwall (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "South East Cornwall (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSouth East Cornwall is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Sheryll Murray, a Conservative.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Caradon, the Borough of Restormel wards of Fowey, Lostwithiel, St Blaise, and Tywardreath, and the District of North Cornwall ward of Stoke Climsland.\n\n2010–present: The District of Caradon, and the Borough of Restormel ward of Lostwithiel.\n\nThe predecessor county division, Bodmin, serving the area from 1885 until 1983 had (during those 98 years) 15 members (two of whom had broken terms of office serving the area), seeing twelve shifts of preference between the Liberal, Liberal Unionist and Conservative parties, spread quite broadly throughout that period. Consistent with this, since 1983 the preference for an MP has alternated between Liberal Democrats and Conservatives.\n\nThe current constituency territory contains the location of several former borough constituencies which were abolished as 'rotten boroughs' by the Great Reform Act, 1832:\n\n\nThe villages and towns in the South East of Cornwall often serve as a commuter base to the city of Plymouth, over the border in Devon.\n\nWorkless claimants were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.5% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829629", "title": "East Devon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "East Devon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEast Devon is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Simon Jupp of the Conservative Party.\n\nA report by the Electoral Reform Society found the seat (and its precursors) has been held by the Conservative Party since 1835, meaning it has been held for 184 years. This is currently the longest held seat by one party anywhere in the country.\n\n1868–1885: The Hundreds of Axminster, Cliston, Colyton, East Budleigh, Exminster, Ottery St. Mary, Haytor, and Teignbridge, and Exeter Castle, and the parts of the hundred of Wonford that are not included in the city of Exeter.\n\n1997–2010: The District of East Devon wards of Axminster Hamlets, Axminster Town, Beer, Budleigh Salterton, Colyton, Edenvale, Exmouth Brixington, Exmouth Halsdon, Exmouth Littleham Rural, Exmouth Littleham Urban, Exmouth Withycombe Raleigh, Exmouth Withycombe Urban, Lympstone, Newbridges, Newton Poppleford and Harpford, Raleigh, Seaton, Sidmouth Rural, Sidmouth Town, Sidmouth Woolbrook, Trinity, Upper Axe, Woodbury, and Yarty.\n\n2010–present: The District of East Devon wards of Broadclyst, Budleigh, Clyst Valley, Exmouth Brixington, Exmouth Halsdon, Exmouth Littleham, Exmouth Town, Exmouth Withycombe Raleigh, Newton Poppleford and Harpford, Ottery St Mary Rural, Ottery St Mary Town, Raleigh, Sidmouth Rural, Sidmouth Sidford, Sidmouth Town, Whimple, and Woodbury and Lympstone, and the City of Exeter wards of St Loyes and Topsham.\n\nThe constituency is in the county of Devon, directly east of Exeter and has a shoreline on the Jurassic Coast.\n\nFollowing a review of parliamentary representation in Devon by the Boundary Commission for England, which has increased the number of seats in the county from 11 to 12, East Devon was subject to significant boundary changes at the 2010 general election. In particular, the towns of Axminster and Seaton were transferred to the Tiverton and Honiton constituency. Also, two wards from the City of Exeter are now part of the East Devon seat.\n\nThe main settlements in the constituency are the seaside resorts of Exmouth, Budleigh Salterton and Sidmouth, and the inland towns of Ottery St Mary and Cranbrook.\n\nThe two-seat constituency of East Devon was abolished at the 1885 general election.\n\nAt the 1997 general election a new constituency of East Devon was established. Sir Peter Emery, MP for Honiton since a 1967 by-election, represented the new East Devon seat until standing down in 2001, when Hugo Swire was elected.\n\nIn 2015 and 2017, the seat saw an unusually strong performance for the Independent anti-austerity candidacy of Claire Wright, a Devon County Councillor, winning 24% of the vote in 2015 and 35% in 2017 and coming second, and significantly ahead of any other candidates, both times.\n\n\n \n\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829631", "title": "South West Devon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "South West Devon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSouth West Devon is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Sir Gary Streeter, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The District of South Hams wards of Bickleigh and Shaugh, Brixton, Charterlands, Cornwood and Harford, Erme Valley, Ivybridge, Modbury, Newton and Noss, Sparkwell, Ugborough, Wembury, and Yealmpton, the City of Plymouth wards of Plympton Erle, Plympton St Mary, Plymstock Dunstone, and Plymstock Radford, and the Borough of West Devon ward of Buckland Monachorum.\n\n2010–present: The District of South Hams wards of Bickleigh and Shaugh, Charterlands, Cornwood and Sparkwell, Erme Valley, Ivybridge Central, Ivybridge Filham, Ivybridge Woodlands, Newton and Noss, Wembury and Brixton, and Yealmpton, and the City of Plymouth wards of Plympton Chaddlewood, Plympton Erle, Plympton St Mary, Plymstock Dunstone, and Plymstock Radford.\n\nThe constituency is a south-western portion of Devon and includes the easternmost part of the city of Plymouth, namely the suburban small towns of Plympton (which as the borough constituency of Plympton Erle returned its own MPs until the Reform Act of 1832 abolished the seat as a 'rotten borough') and Plymstock which are so close as to be contiguous with the city's eastern parts, as well as the town of Ivybridge and much of the South Hams. Its landscape includes the edge of Dartmoor and a southern coastline.\n\nThe areas covered in the seat were previously served by the South Hams and Plymouth Sutton seats. Both seats had been represented by the Conservative Party, and Gary Streeter, who became the first MP for the new constituency in 1997, had been MP for Plymouth Sutton from 1992 until 1997.\n\nUnemployment, at 1.3% in November 2012, was significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829633", "title": "Exeter (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Exeter (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nExeter is a constituency composed of the cathedral city and county town of Devon represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. The constituency has had a history of representatives from 1900 of Conservative, Liberal Party, Independent and Labour representation.\n\nThe constituency covers the majority of this affluent city, including the University and the Met Office which are significant employers.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Exeter.\n\n1950–1974: As prior but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1974–1983: As prior but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1983–2010: The City of Exeter.\n\n2010–present: The City of Exeter wards of Alphington, Cowick, Duryard, Exwick, Heavitree, Mincinglake, Newtown, Pennsylvania, Pinhoe, Polsloe, Priory, St David's, St James, St Leonard's, St Thomas, and Whipton and Barton.\n\nThe constituency covers most of the city of Exeter in Devon. It covered the entire city from 1918 until 2010, when, under the Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, which increased the number of seats in the county from 11 to 12, two wards of the City of Exeter (St Loyes and Topsham) were transferred to the neighbouring East Devon constituency.\n\n\"Two members\"\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nUpon petition, this election was subject to a recount due to the closeness of the results. On the first count, St. Maur led with 4,786 votes to Duke's 4,782. On a second count, St. Maur again led with 4,782 votes to Duke's 4,778. Closer scrutiny led to the above count, allowing Duke to retain the seat.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nDuke is appointed Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, prompting a by-election.\n\nDuke is appointed Lord Justice of Appeal and resigns, prompting a by-election.\n\n \n\nColeridge was appointed Solicitor General for England and Wales, requiring a by-election.\n\nColeridge resigned after being appointed Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas\n\n \n\n \n\nFollett was appointed Solicitor General of England and Wales, requiring a by-election.\n\nFollett was appointed Attorney General of England and Wales, requiring a by-election.\n\nFollett's death caused a by-election.\n\n \n\nDivett's death caused a by-election.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829634", "title": "Randalls and Wards Islands", "text": "Randalls and Wards Islands\n\nRandalls Island and Wards Island are conjoined islands, collectively called Randalls and Wards Islands, in the New York City borough of Manhattan, separated from most of Manhattan by the Harlem River, from Queens by the East River and Hell Gate, and from the Bronx by the Bronx Kill. The two islands were formerly separated, with Randalls Island to the north of Wards Island. The channel between them, Little Hell Gate, was infilled by the early 1960s. A third, smaller island, Sunken Meadow Island, was located east of Randalls Island and was connected to it in 1955.\n\nThe island had a population of 1,648 living on in 2010. Most of the island is parkland, spanning a total of , and managed by Randall's Island Park Alliance. The park offers athletic fields, a driving range, greenways, playgrounds and picnic grounds. The island also has a history of being used for asylums, hospitals, and cemeteries, and is currently home to several public facilities, including two psychiatric hospitals, a state police station, a fire academy, a wastewater treatment plant, and several homeless shelters. Outside of these institutions, there is no residential housing for the general public on the island.\n\nThe island is crossed by the Triborough and Hell Gate bridges. The island can be reached by the Triborough Bridge; the Wards Island Bridge, which serves pedestrians and bicyclists and links the island to East Harlem in Manhattan; or by the Randalls Island Connector, a pedestrian and cycling bridge crossing the Bronx Kill and connecting to the Port Morris neighborhood of the Bronx. Randalls Island is the home of three music festivals: Governors Ball Music Festival, Panorama Music Festival, and Electric Zoo Festival.\n\nNative Americans called Wards Island \"Tenkenas\" which translated to \"Wild Lands\" or \"uninhabited place\", whereas Randalls Island was called \"Minnehanonck\". The islands were acquired by Wouter Van Twiller, Director General of the Dutch colony of New Netherland, in July 1637. The island's first European names were Great Barent Island (Wards) and Little Barent Island (Randalls) after a Danish cowherd named Barent Jansen Blom. Both islands' names changed several times. At times Randalls was known as \"Buchanan's Island\" and \"Great Barn Island\", both of which were likely corruptions of Great Barent Island.\n\nCaptain John Montresor, an engineer with the British army, purchased Randalls Island in 1772. He renamed it Montresor's Island and lived on it with his wife until the Revolutionary War forced him to deploy. During the Revolutionary War, both islands hosted military posts for the British military. The British used his island to launch amphibious attacks on Manhattan, and Montresor's house there was burned in 1777. He resigned his commission and returned to England in 1778, but retained ownership of the island until the British evacuated the city in 1783 and it was confiscated.\n\nBoth islands gained their current names from new owners after the war. In November 1784, Jonathan Randell (or Randel) bought Randalls Island, while Jaspar Ward and Bartholomew Ward, sons of judge Stephen Ward, bought Wards.\n\nAlthough a small population had lived on Wards since as early as the 17th century, the Ward brothers developed the island more heavily by building a cotton mill and in 1807 building the first bridge to cross the East River. The wooden drawbridge connected the island with Manhattan at 114th Street, and was paid for by Bartholomew Ward and Philip Milledolar. The bridge lasted until 1821, when it was destroyed in a storm. After the destruction of the bridge, Wards island was largely abandoned until 1840. Jonathan Randel's heirs sold Randalls to the city in 1835 for $60,000.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, both Randalls and Wards Islands, like nearby Blackwell's Island, became home to a variety of social facilities. Randalls housed an orphanage, poor house, burial ground for the poor, \"idiot\" asylum, homeopathic hospital and rest home for Civil War veterans, and was also site of the New York House of Refuge, a reform school completed in 1854 for juvenile delinquents or juveniles adjudicated as vagrants. Between 1840 and 1930, Wards island was used for:\n\nWhen the Triborough Bridge opened in 1936, it spurred the conversion of both islands to parkland. At the time, Little Hell Gate separated Randalls and Wards Islands. Around the late 1930s, Little Hell Gate began to be narrowed using infill to make room for an expansion of the parks. By the early 1960s, the islands were connected. \n\nThere was also formerly another small island, Sunken Meadow Island, to the east of Randalls Island. It was infilled starting in 1955 when the city allowed construction companies to dump debris in between the islands for free. The former island is now part of Sunken Meadow. The Sunken Meadow section of the Randalls Island Park, which was essentially completed by 1965, comprises and contains ball fields. Sunken Meadow also contains the infilled portion of Little Hell Gate.\n\nIn 1984, the point at the southeastern tip of the island was officially designated \"Negro Point\", based on the unofficial usage of riverboat workers. The United States Geological Survey and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration used that name. It still appears on charts of the area today. In 2001 the Parks Commissioner Henry Stern, upon learning of the name, thought it was offensive. He changed the name to \"Scylla Point\" and paired it with Charybdis Playground in Astoria Park; the two features are on opposite sides of Hell Gate, just as the mythological monsters of Scylla and Charybdis were on opposite sides of the Strait of Messina. Despite the name change Negro Point is still used by tug captains and mates as they sail past the area.\n\nProposals to add parks to the islands were made as early as 1916, but park development was truly kicked off by the 1930 Metropolitan Conference of Parks, which recommended transforming them into recreational parks. Randalls Island Park is operated by the Randall's Island Park Alliance (RIPA), a public-private partnership founded in 1992 as the Island Sports Foundation.\n\nRandalls Island Park Alliance works with the City and local communities to provide sports venues, cultural events and environmental exploration. RIPA runs free youth programs at the Park, bringing thousands of children to the Park annually for a range of sports and environmental-education activities. Youth programs include public school field trips to the park’s urban farm and saltmarsh, environmental and garden tours and workshops, and various outdoor arts and crafts programs. In addition, RIPA hosts Randalls Island Kids camp, a free six-week-long summer camp for children from community organizations in East Harlem and the South Bronx. Programming for the general public includes movies nights in the park, historical and environmental tours, outdoor yoga, and large festivals, including the Cherry Blossom and music festivals. \n\nRandalls Island Park contains over 8 miles of pedestrian and bike pathways, the majority of which run along the scenic waterfront perimeter of the island. With connections to all three boroughs, the island acts as a non-vehicular route for traveling between Manhattan, the Bronx, and Queens. Connection to the South Bronx Greenway is planned, with additional waterfront pathway sections, a naturalized \"living shoreline,\" and further environmental restoration. Greenway segments are part of the East Coast Greenway, a 3,000 mile long trail system connecting Maine to Florida.\n\nA renovated golf center opened in 2008. The new $500,000 renovation has a two-tier indoor/outdoor, 82-stall driving range, of landing area, a 36-hole mini-golf course, grass tees, a short game area with sand bunker, PGA instructors, and 9 batting cages. Then, a tennis center opened in Randalls Island Park in July 2009. It features 20 courts, 10 har-tru and 10 rubberized hard (5 indoor), along with a cafe, pro shop, fitness facilities and locker rooms. From May–October, 10 courts are reserved for NYC Parks Tennis Permit holders during the daylight hours. In the winter, all 15 outdoor courts are bubbled for use by club members.\n\nThe center is also the home to the John McEnroe Tennis Academy and was home to the New York Sportimes of World TeamTennis until the team relocated to San Diego in 2014. Finally, in May 2010, RIPA and the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation completed the construction of over 60 athletic fields to support a greater variety of sports, including football, lacrosse, field hockey, and rugby among the sports already played at the Park, soccer, baseball and softball. Randalls Island Park has the most athletic fields of any single New York City park.\n\nThree natural environments, two saltmarsh and a freshwater wetland, have been established on the island. Through the process of excavating over of debris, installing clean sand, and planting native marsh grasses, of saltmarsh has been created surrounding the Little Hell Gate Inlet on the western edge of the Island. Just across from the Little Hell Gate saltmarsh, of freshwater wetlands were also established. In addition, the park is home to hundreds of birds, making it a destination for bird and nature enthusiasts.\n\nAfter the removal of almost of debris and fill, the freshwater wetland site was planted with native herbaceous, shrub, and tree species, such as switchgrass, aster, dogwood, and oak. In addition, the restoration projects play a crucial role in an park-wide filtration system that collects storm water from the adjacent sports fields, pathways and paved areas and channels it through the Wetlands, where the new plants naturally filter pollutants before reaching the East River.\n\nThe New York City Department of Parks and Recreation approved a $1 million contract with Natural Currents Energy Services to generate renewable energy in the park. The project was expected to produce of solar, wind, and tidal energy to power the island's facilities. The project was planned to include a solar-powered marine research and information kiosk that would have been open to visitors of the island, and was hoped to have been completed in September 2012.\n\nLittle Hell Gate was originally a natural waterway separating Randalls Island and Wards Island. The east end of Little Hell Gate opened into the Hell Gate passage of the East River, opposite Astoria, Queens. The west end of Little Hell Gate met the Harlem River across from East 116th Street, Manhattan. At the Hell Gate Bridge, Little Hell Gate was over 1000 feet (300 m) wide. Currents were swift.\n\nAfter the Triborough Bridge opened in 1936, it spurred the conversion of both islands to parkland. Soon thereafter, the city began filling in most of the passage between the two islands, in order to expand and connect the two parks. The inlet was filled in by the 1960s. What is now called \"Little Hell Gate Inlet\" is the western end of what used to be Little Hell Gate, however, few traces of the eastern end of Little Hell Gate still remain: an indentation in the shoreline on the East River side indicates the former east entrance to that waterway. Today, parkland and part of the New York City Fire Department Academy (see below) occupy that area.\n\nThe first stadium built on the island was the Downing Stadium, a WPA project. Upon its opening on July 11, 1936, 15,000 attendees witnessed Jesse Owens compete in the Men's Olympic Trials.[20][21] Downing Stadium also hosted the Women's Olympic Trials in 1964.[22] It was the site of an international soccer friendly in which England defeated the USA, 10–0, on May 27, 1964.[23] In 1960, the owners of Ebbets Field donated 500 stadium lights to Downing Stadium. The lights came from the old stadium, which was being torn down.[24]Downing Stadium was demolished in 2002, and replaced by the Icahn Stadium, which opened in April, 2005.[25] It was designed by architect Ricardo Zurita, who was also involved with the master planning of the park development.[26] On May 31, 2008, Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt broke the world record for the men's 100-meter dash at the Fourth Annual Reebok Grand Prix with a \"lightning\" speed time of 9.72 seconds.[27]\n\nIn 1917, the Hell Gate Bridge, a railroad bridge, was built across both islands, running from Queens to the Bronx. The bridge was first thought of in the early 1900s, as a plan to link New York and the Pennsylvania Railroad with New England and the New Haven Railroad. The bridge is considered to be extremely sturdy; it would be the last New York City bridge to collapse if humans disappeared, taking at least a millennium to do so, according to the February 2005 issue of \"Discover\" magazine, while most other bridges would fall in about 300 years.\n\nIn 1936, the islands were connected to the rest of the city by the Triborough Bridge, the hub of which crossed the islands. The American Society of Civil Engineers designated the Triborough Bridge Project as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark in 1986. On November 19, 2008, the Triborough Bridge was officially renamed after Robert F. Kennedy at the request of the Kennedy family. To manage the bridge (and eventually all tolled New York City water crossings), the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority erected an art deco head building, the former base of Robert Moses; the building still stands on the island.\n\nIn 1937, the islands were connected by a bridge over Little Hell Gate, obviating the need for a ferry to Wards Island. There were two bridges that appear to have been known as Little Hell Gate Bridge – an early 20th-century rail bridge on the approach to Hell Gate Bridge, and a later, lower steel arch road bridge across Little Hell Gate. The northern approach viaduct to the Hell Gate Bridge included an inverted bowstring truss bridge, with four long spans, across Little Hell Gate. Although the majority of Little Hell Gate has been filled in, this bridge still exists. Some time after the rail bridge was built, a long, 3 span, steel arch road bridge, designed by George Washington Bridge-engineer Othmar Ammann, was also built across Little Hell Gate, just a short distance to the northwest of the rail bridge.\n\nThe Little Hell Gate bridge was rendered obsolete when the Little Hell Gate was filled, and a service road was built alongside the deteriorating bridge. Efforts were made in the mid-1990s to preserve the bridge in the face of plans by the New York City Department of Transportation to demolish it. They were unsuccessful, and the bridge was replaced with a simple service road.\n\nIn 1937, plans were developed by Robert Moses to construct a pedestrian bridge across the Harlem River from East Harlem, a bridge which would provide Manhattan residents with easy access to the new Wards Island's Park. However, actual construction of this Wards Island Bridge, also known as the 103rd Street Footbridge, did not begin until 1949. Designed by Othmar Hermann Ammann and built by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the footbridge was originally known as the Harlem River Pedestrian Bridge. This bridge opened to pedestrians on May 18, 1951 and was completed at a cost of $2.1 million. It gives access to Wards Island Park from East Harlem, which has few public green spaces.\n\nIn November 2015, a ground-level footbridge over the Bronx Kill, called the Randalls Island Connector, opened, forming the second link from Randalls Island to the Bronx. Construction of this bridge was proposed in 2006, but did not begin until 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829635", "title": "Falmouth and Camborne (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Falmouth and Camborne (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nFalmouth and Camborne was, from 1950 until 2010, a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe Falmouth and Camborne seat was created in 1950, succeeding the former Camborne constituency. The seat had an industrial tradition, mostly in tin mining. The seat alternated between the Labour and Conservative parties until 2005, when it was won by Julia Goldsworthy of the Liberal Democrats.\n\nThe former gold medal-winning athlete Sebastian Coe represented this seat as a Conservative from 1992 until his defeat by Labour in 1997.\n\n1950–1983: The Municipal Boroughs of Falmouth and Penryn, the Urban District of Camborne-Redruth, and parts of the Rural Districts of Kerrier, Truro, and West Penwith.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Kerrier wards of Camborne North, Camborne South, Camborne West, Constantine, Illogan North, Illogan South, Mabe and St Gluvias, Mawnan and Budock, Redruth North, Redruth South, St Day and Lanner, and Stithians, and the District of Carrick wards of Arwenack, Mylor, Penryn, Penwerris, Smithick, and Trevethan.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Kerrier wards of Camborne North, Camborne South, Camborne West, Constantine and Gweek, Illogan North, Illogan South, Mabe and St Gluvias, Mawnan and Budock, Redruth North, Redruth South, St Day and Lanner, and Stithians, and the District of Carrick wards of Arwenack, Mylor, Penryn, Penwerris, Smithick, and Trevethan.\n\nFollowing its review of parliamentary representation in Cornwall, the Boundary Commission for England abolished this constituency at the 2010 general election. The new Camborne and Redruth seat took most of the electoral wards from this seat, while the remaining wards form part of the new Truro and Falmouth constituency.\n"}
{"id": "1829636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829636", "title": "Plymouth Sutton (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Plymouth Sutton (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nPlymouth, Sutton was, from 1918 until 2010, a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nPlymouth Sutton covered parts of the city of Plymouth, in South West England, and was first contested at the 1918 general election. In a by-election in 1919, it became the second constituency in the UK (and the first in Great Britain) to elect a female MP: Nancy Astor became the first woman to take a seat in the House of Commons (the first female MP was the Sinn Féin member Constance Markievicz, who did not take her seat). Three of its MPs have been members of the Astor family. A more recent prominent MP was the flamboyant Conservative Alan Clark, who represented Plymouth Sutton from 1974 until 1992.\n\nFollowing the Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies by the Boundary Commission for England, constituencies in Plymouth were reorganised, with both Plymouth Sutton and Plymouth Devonport being replaced by new constituencies of Plymouth Sutton and Devonport and Plymouth Moor View from 2010. The vast majority of the Plymouth Sutton constituency became part of the new Plymouth Sutton and Devonport constituency.\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Plymouth wards of Charles, Compton, Friary, Laira, St Andrew, Sutton, and Vintry.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Plymouth wards of Charles, Compton, Crownhill, Drake, Friary, Laira, Mutley, St Andrew, Sutton, Valletort, and Vintry, and the parish of Bickleigh in the Rural District of Plympton St Mary.\n\n1955–1974: The County Borough of Plymouth wards of Charles, Compton, Crownhill, Efford, Friary, Mount Gould, Peverell, Sutton, Tamerton, and Trelawney.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Plymouth wards of Crownhill, Efford, Mount Gould, Plympton Erle, Plympton St Mary, Plymstock Dunstone, Plymstock Radford, and Sutton.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Plymouth wards of Efford, Eggbuckland, Mount Gould, Plympton Erle, Plympton St Mary, Plymstock Dunstone, and Plymstock Radford.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Plymouth wards of Compton, Drake, Efford, Mount Gould, St Peter, Stoke, Sutton, and Trelawny.\n\nThe 1997 boundary changes were highly favourable to Labour in this constituency: what had been a safe Conservative seat became a marginal seat. As such the seat from 1997 until 2010 was closer in its wards to the defunct marginal seat of Plymouth Drake.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nNew constituency boundaries came into effect in time for the following election in February 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829637", "title": "St Ives (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "St Ives (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSt Ives is a parliamentary constituency covering the western end of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. The constituency has been represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Derek Thomas, a Conservative MP.\n\nThe area's voters produced the 22nd closest result in the 2017 General Election; a winning margin of 312 votes. Since 1992 the same locally leading two parties' candidates who were fielded (varying at different times) have won at least 27.2% of the vote each; the third place candidate, that of the Labour Party has fluctuated between 8.2% and 15.2% of share of the vote.\n\nSt Ives has elected MPs to every Parliament since 1558, except for a brief period during the Protectorate. It was originally a mere parliamentary borough that returned two MPs until the Great Reform Act of 1832, when its representation was cut to a single member. In 1885 the borough was abolished, but the St Ives name was transferred to the surrounding county constituency.\n\nThe borough established under Queen Mary consisted of the parish of St Ives in western Cornwall, a seaport and market town in which the main economic interests were fishing and the export of ores mined nearby. In 1831, the population of the borough was 4,776, and contained 1,002 houses.\n\nThe franchise was initially restricted to the town corporation, but after a judgment in a disputed election in 1702 the right to vote was given to all inhabitants paying scot and lot; in the early 19th century this amounted to a little over 300 voters. This was a wide franchise for the period, and its reasonable size meant that St Ives was one of the few Cornish boroughs that could claim not to be rotten.\n\nElections were usually contested. Local wealthiest families were able to exercise considerable influence on the outcome yet none was predominant. The result could rarely be taken for granted and it was necessary to court the voters assiduously. From the 17th century were three such families from the first: the Hobart family, the Praeds (at the time of Treventhoe manor), and the Dukes of Bolton (the Paulet family) – to which added by the mid 18th century the Stephens family. In 1751, however, John Stephens, who had previously allied himself with the Earl of Buckinghamshire (a Hobart) and managed the borough's elections on his behalf, \"struck out on his own account\" (defected independently) and secured the election of his son. Later in the decade Stephens and the Earl once more began to work together, but were unable to prevent Humphrey Mackworth Praed from establishing sufficient influence to sway one of the two seats.\n\nBy 1761 alliances coalesced, the Earl and Praed on one side nominating candidates against Stephens and the Duke of Bolton on the other. The by-election in 1763, when Buckinghamshire's brother-in-law Charles Hotham was re-elected after being appointed to a position in the Royal Household, cost the Earl £1,175 including 7 guineas each to 124 people, resulting in an uncontested election.\n\nThere was a further bitterly contested election in 1774: allegations of bribery were investigated by a House of Commons committee, whose proceedings are recounted at length by the contemporary historian of electoral abuses, Thomas Oldfield. Samuel Stephens, defeated by 7 votes, accused William Praed and Adam Drummond (the Duke of Bolton's candidate) of benefiting from several types of corruption. Humphrey Mackworth Praed, William's father, was said to have lent large sums to voters on the understanding that repayment would not be demanded if they voted for Praed and Drummond; but opposing counsel adduced evidence that Stephens had also resorted to bribery. However, it was alleged that many of Stephens' supporters had been prevented from voting, by rating them as not liable for scot and lot and so not eligible to vote; this disenfranchisement was a frequent abuse in such boroughs. His side, as petitioners, failed to bring any evidence of criminal misconduct by the parish overseers so the committee decided they had no jurisdiction to interfere. In the end, the committee upheld Drummond's election and declared that neither Stephens nor Praed had been properly elected, thus a writ was issued for a by-election to fill the second seat.\n\nThe cost of electioneering in St Ives seems eventually to have led to Buckinghamshire and Bolton withdrawing, and by 1784 Praed was considered unchallenged as patron. Nevertheless, Stephens' influence was not extinguished, and it was recorded that the patrons at the time of the Reform Act were Samuel Stephens of Tregarron and Sir Christopher Hawkins of Trewithan (who had purchased the manor of Mr Praed).\n\nThe Reform Act extended the boundaries, bringing in the neighbouring parishes of Lelant and Towednack and reduced the two St Ives seats to one. A new high of 584 voters qualified at the first reformed election, that of 1832.\n\nOn extension of the franchise in 1868 of the \"second Reform Act\", the electorate never passed 1,500, and had fallen to barely 1,000 by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, the cornerstone of the third reform legislation, under which the \"borough\" for its parliamentary definition was abolished that year, the area becoming contributory to a larger county division.\n\nDivision of counties into single-member constituencies was effected in 1885: Cornwall having six. The westernmost of these, in which St Ives stood, was formally The Western or St Ives Division of Cornwall but was most often referred to simply as St Ives or as West Cornwall.\n\nThis area included Penzance, Paul, Ludgvan and St Just, and stretched not only from Land's End to St Erth but also included the Isles of Scilly. This duchy seat was abnormally low in owner-occupiers, with many \"nonconformist\" Christians and the Conservatives were consequently very weak. However, local sentiment was strongly against Irish Home Rule or independence, seen as a particular threat to the livelihood of the fishermen and other maritime employees who made up much of the electorate, and St Ives therefore became a Liberal Unionist stronghold from 1886.\n\nAfter the boundary revisions introduced at the general election of 1918, which brought in most of the villages on the Lizard Peninsula (though not Helston), the constituency was simply called Cornwall, St Ives. It underwent further boundary changes in 1950, bringing Helston into the constituency, and in 1983, when it was extended to include all of the Penwith local government district.\n\nThe character of the constituency was little changed any of these revisions, but party loyalties may have been disrupted by the 1918 changes. Labour put up a candidate for the first time in 1918, and took more than a third of the vote; at the next election, with Labour withdrawing and the Irish issue no longer able to help Cory, a Conservative was elected for the first time. For the next decade St Ives was a Conservative-Liberal marginal, changing hands four times in the 1920s. However, the formal split of National Liberals from the Liberals offered a popular compromise which suited the voters, so much so as to be a safe seat, and later for Conservatives when the National Liberals finally merged with them in the 1960s, until the formation of the Liberal Democrats re-invigorated the competition in the 1990s. Andrew George captured the seat after the retirement of the sitting Conservative MP in 1997, and took over half the vote in both 2001 and 2005.\n\nWalter Runciman held the most senior positions in Education, Agriculture and Trade taking together the period from 1908 until 1916 during the Asquith ministry. He was later re-appointed as the most senior minister in Trade from 1931 to 1937 in the all-party National Coalition Government.\n\nSir John Nott also held the most senior position in the Trade department before becoming Secretary of State for Defence, including during the Argentine invasion of the Falkland Islands and the ensuing Falklands War. His assertion that he was cutting the defence budget before the war was not capricious and he offered his resignation to Margaret Thatcher, however she kept him for the duration of the conflict and he stood down in 1983.\n\nAt general elections, the constituency is usually one of the last to declare a result - the delay in bringing the ballot boxes over from the Isles of Scilly means that counting does not begin until the following day. In the 2015 general election it was the last constituency in the United Kingdom to declare, because the ballot boxes were flown in from the Isles of Scilly only on the first scheduled flight the following morning, having been kept in police cells overnight on St Mary's, with the declaration taking place at 15:30 on Friday afternoon. However, in 1987 and 1992 the constituency did count during the night rather than the next day. The seat was declared at about 1:30 am in 1987 and about 3:45 am in 1992. In 2019 it was planned to fly the ballot boxes in overnight, but bad weather prevented this and the seat was the last to declare in the UK.\n\n1885–1918: The Boroughs of St Ives and Penzance, the Sessional Division of West Penwith (including the Isles of Scilly), and the parishes of St Erth and Uny-Lelant.\n\n1918–1950: The Boroughs of St Ives and Penzance, the Urban Districts of Ludgvan, Madron, Paul, and St Just, the Rural District of West Penwith, the Isles of Scilly, and part of the Rural District of Helston.\n\n1950–1983: The Boroughs of St Ives, Penzance, and Helston, the Urban District of St Just, the Isles of Scilly, and parts of the Rural Districts of Kerrier and West Penwith.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Penwith, the District of Kerrier wards of Breage and Germoe, Crowan, Grade-Ruan and Landewednack, Helston North, Helston South, Meneage, Mullion, Porthleven, St Keverne and Wendron, and Sithney, and the Isles of Scilly.\n\n2010–present: The District of Penwith wards of Goldsithney, Gulval and Heamoor, Lelant and Carbis Bay, Ludgvan and Towednack, Madron and Zennor, Marazion and Perranuthnoe, Morvah, Pendeen and St Just, Penzance Central, Penzance East, Penzance Promenade, Penzance South, St Buryan, St Erth and St Hilary, St Ives North, and St Ives South, the District of Kerrier wards of Breage and Crowan, Grade-Ruan and Landewednack, Helston North, Helston South, Meneage, Mullion, Porthleven and Sithney, and St Keverne, and the Isles of Scilly.\n\nThe St Ives constituency covers the southwest of Cornwall, taking in the most southerly and westerly points of England (both its mainland and if islands are included), taking in parts of the former Penwith and Kerrier Districts. The main towns in the constituency are Penzance, St Ives and Helston. It also includes the Isles of Scilly, not shown on the map (having 1,700 electors out of a total of 63,000). The seat includes the Tate St Ives, St Michael's Mount (also an island) and Land's End.\n\nFollowing the Boundary Commission' Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, Parliament increased the number of seats in the county from five to six for the 2010 general election, thus St Ives saw a loss of wards to the new Camborne and Redruth seat, including the St Ives Bay town of Hayle.\n\nGeneral election 1939/40:\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected;\n\nGeneral election 1914/15:\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829639", "title": "Teignbridge (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Teignbridge (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTeignbridge was, from 1983 until 2010, a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Teignbridge wards of Abbotskerwell, Ambrook, Ashburton, Bovey, Bradley, Buckfastleigh, Buckland, Bushell, Chudleigh, College, Dawlish Central, Dawlish North East, Dawlish South West, Haldon, Haytor, Ipplepen, Kingskerwell, Kingsteignton East, Kingsteignton West, Milber, Moorland, Moretonhampstead, Shaldon, Teignhydes, Teignmouth Central, Teignmouth East, Teignmouth North, and Teignmouth West, and the District of South Hams ward of Eastmoor.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Teignbridge wards of Abbotskerwell, Bovey, Bradley, Buckland, Bushell, Chudleigh, College, Dawlish Central, Dawlish North East, Dawlish South West, Haldon, Haytor, Ipplepen, Kingskerwell, Kingsteignton East, Kingsteignton West, Milber, Moorland, Moretonhampstead, Shaldon, Teignhydes, Teignmouth Central, Teignmouth East, Teignmouth North, and Teignmouth West.\n\nThe constituency was based on the Teignbridge local government district in Devon. It was created in 1983 from parts of the seats of Totnes and Tiverton. Towns in the constituency included Dawlish, Newton Abbot and Teignmouth.\n\nThe seat was held by Patrick Nicholls of the Conservative Party from its creation until his defeat by Richard Younger-Ross of the Liberal Democrats at the 2001 general election. Younger-Ross successfully defended the seat in 2005, with a majority of 6,215 over the Conservatives' Stanley Johnson, the father of Boris Johnson.\n\nFollowing a review of parliamentary representation in Devon by the Boundary Commission for England, which increased the number of seats in the county from 11 to 12, the Teignbridge constituency was abolished. The southern part, including the main towns of Dawlish, Newton Abbot and Teignmouth, formed the new Newton Abbot seat, while the northern portion formed part of Central Devon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829640", "title": "Tiverton and Honiton (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tiverton and Honiton (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTiverton and Honiton is a constituency in Devon represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Neil Parish, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Mid Devon except the wards of Taw, Taw Vale, and West Creedy, and the District of East Devon wards of Broadclyst, Clystbeare, Clyst Valley, Exe Valley, Honiton St Michael's, Honiton St Paul's, Otterhead, Ottery St Mary Rural, Ottery St Mary Town, Patteson, and Tale Vale.\n\n2010–present: The District of Mid Devon wards of Canonsleigh, Castle, Clare and Shuttern, Cranmore, Cullompton North, Cullompton Outer, Cullompton South, Halberton, Lower Culm, Lowman, Upper Culm, and Westexe, and the District of East Devon wards of Axminster Rural, Axminster Town, Beer and Branscombe, Coly Valley, Dunkeswell, Feniton and Buckerell, Honiton St Michael’s, Honiton St Paul’s, Newbridges, Otterhead, Seaton, Tale Vale, Trinity, and Yarty.\n\nThe constituency is in east Devon, covering the towns of Tiverton and Honiton and their surrounding villages (which include extensive farmland, rivers popular with kayakers and part of the Blackdown Hills) These settlements are in the Mid Devon and East Devon districts.\n\nParliament accepted the Boundary Commission's Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies which slightly altered this constituency for the 2010 general election, and gave Devon 12 seats instead of 11. Some wards of Mid Devon District in this seat were transferred to the new Central Devon constituency; however, parts of the East Devon constituency, including the towns of Axminster and Seaton, were gained in return.\n\nThe seat came about when the town of Honiton from the Honiton constituency was added to the Tiverton constituency in 1997. Both were long-established seats, with the former having existed from 1640 and the latter from 1615. Both elected two Members of Parliament until the 1884 Reform Act reduced the number for both to one and their area was widened to cover two divisions of the county under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\n\nProminent holders of the seats in the 19th century included Whig politician Joseph Locke, a railway pioneer, who was MP for Honiton, and Lord Palmerston, who, while MP for Tiverton, served as the first Prime Minister from the newly formed Liberal Party (1855-1858 and 1859-1865).\n\nThe seat can be regarded as a safe Conservative seat, if including either of its predecessors, the area served by the constituency has not been represented by another party in Westminster since 1923.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.0% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1829642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829642", "title": "Kratka Ridge", "text": "Kratka Ridge\n\nKratka Ridge or Snowcrest is a skiable area on Waterman Mountain in the San Gabriel Mountains of Los Angeles County, California. Located 36 miles northeast of La Cañada and Pasadena along the Angeles Crest Highway, it reaches a height of 7515 feet (2,291 m).\n\nThe area featured two chair lifts and a rope tow, has a total of 13 runs with a vertical drop of approximately 750 feet (230 m).\n\nTrail difficulty can be rated as 30% beginner, 30% intermediate, and 40% advanced.\n\nThe resort is located 4.2 miles (6.8 km) west of Angeles Crest Highway mile marker 52.6, about 2.7 miles (4.3 km) east of Mount Waterman ski area, and about 2.7 miles west of the two tunnels. It lies in the Pearblossom, California postal zip code (93553).\n\nThe area was developed in 1950 by the Joe Diener and the Angeles Winter Development Association, a group of Mount San Gorgonio ski club members. In 1954, the first chairlift at Kratka Ridge was constructed. Its single chair was believed to be one of the last of its kind in operation as of 2001 besides the single chair at Mad River Glen and [Mt Eyak Ski Area] in [Cordova Alaska].\n\nDuring the 1980s and early 1990s the Hensley family owned the majority interest in the ski area. Ray Hensley, a former college and pro ski racer, was the mountain manager. His father, Ed, often worked the grill in the basement beer garden below the bottom of Chair 1. They sold the ski area to John and Jacqueline Steely.\n\nKratka Ridge changed its name to Snowcrest, then back to Kratka Ridge. After the switch back to the original name, \"Kratka\" referred to the skiing and snowboarding terrain from the base to the summit, while \"Snowcrest\" referred to the snowplay/tubing area at the base. \nOn August 29, 1999 5 teenagers crashed a Toyota Camry off Angeles Crest Highway (mile marker 68) when driving home from a Jujubeats \"rave\" party held at the then-named Snowcrest Resort. The families of the teens took legal actions to sue the venue owners; however, the disputes were settled outside of court. This event may have contributed to a bad image of Snowcrest, prompting the owners to change the name back to Kratka Ridge. \n\nIn 1999 an investor group led by Barry Stubblefield bought Kratka Ridge and Mt. Waterman, with plans to link them. However, the limited number of visitors delayed the expansion. The ski areas closed to the public, and then Stubblefield was killed in 2005 while skiing Mt. Waterman when it was closed and no ski patrol was present. \n\nThe ski area was open through the 2000-2001 ski season. The single chair lift was damaged by avalanche during a large storm during February 11–13, 2001, which left approximately 7 feet of snow. In December 2001, a mysterious fire destroyed the chairlift base area and the resort has been closed since the 2001-2002 season. The parent owner of the resort, Angeles Crest Resorts, collected insurance on both events but did not begin reconstruction. The ski area's closure may have been related to the fire or other economic reasons.\n\nThe permit for Kratka Ridge was revoked; the current owners had to sell it or the resort would be torn down. Another local resort, Mountain High showed interest in buying the lift structures, probably for its new North Resort.\n\nOn March 12, 2006, the Pasadena Star reported that Lynn Newcomb and Rick Metcalf, a Southern California businessman, were looking to purchase Mt. Waterman from the existing owners, including Barry Stubblefield's widow. The former manager for Mount Waterman under Lynn Newcomb later reported that Lynn Newcomb and Rick Metcalf purchased the resort and planned to have it open by the 2006-2007 winter season. Reconstruction of the chairlift base area was under way in October 2006. Plans for the area were not certain, however, as many speculated it to be a play area while neighboring Mt. Waterman hosted ski lifts.\n\nAs of April 2020, the area remains unchanged and abandoned. The single-chair chairlift is still intact yet the base of the station is non-existent. \"Keep Out\" signs are posted alongside the highway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829643", "title": "Torbay (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Torbay (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTorbay is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Kevin Foster, a Conservative.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Torbay.\n\n1983–2010: The Borough of Torbay wards of Cockington with Chelston, Coverdale, Ellacombe, Preston, St Marychurch, St Michael's with Goodrington, Shiphay, Tormohun, and Torwood.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Torbay wards of Clifton with Maidenway, Cockington with Chelston, Ellacombe, Goodrington with Roselands, Preston, Roundham with Hyde, St Marychurch, Shiphay with the Willows, Tormohun, Watcombe, and Wellswood.\n\nThe constituency covers the majority of the Torbay unitary authority in Devon, including the seaside resorts of Torquay and most of Paignton. The remainder of the borough is covered by the Totnes constituency.\n\nAfter being held for several Parliaments (taking together various predecessor areas) by Conservatives, from 1997 the seat was held by Liberal Democrats until 2015 when a Conservative re-took it. The majority in 1997 was the most marginal of that election, and the majority of 2,029 in 2005 was the lowest since then.\n\nSir Frederic Bennett did not achieve his own ministry nationally, but he chaired in the European Parliament the European Democrats group.\n\nConsisting almost entirely of coastal towns and villages, the constituency has a range of shopping, tourist and visitor facilities from Paignton Zoo, safe bathing and boating to mini-golf, as well as a few nearby luxury resorts. Perhaps owing to the seasonal rise in employment, workless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly higher than the national average of 3.8%, at 5.0% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThe seat is home to the Plainmoor football ground, home to Torquay United. Past MP Adrian Sanders is a notable supporter of the football club.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829644", "title": "Truro (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Truro (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTruro was the name of a parliamentary constituency in Cornwall represented in the House of Commons of England and later of Great Britain from 1295 until 1800, then in the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1918 and finally from 1950 to 1997. Until 1885 it was a parliamentary borough, electing two members of parliament (MPs) by the plurality-at-large system of election; the name was then transferred to the surrounding county constituency, which elected a single Member by the first past the post system. In 1997, although there had been no changes to its boundaries, it was renamed as Truro and St Austell, reflecting the fact that St Austell by then had a larger population than Truro.\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Truro, the Urban District of St Austell, the Rural District of Truro except the parish of Gwennap, and in the Rural District of St Austell the parishes of Creed, Grampound, Roche, St Dennis, St Ewe, St Goran, St Mewan, St Michael Caerhays, and St Stephen-in-Brannel.\n\n1974–1983: The Boroughs of Truro, and St Austell with Fowey, the Rural District of Truro except the parish of Gwennap, and in the Rural District of St Austell the parishes of Creed, Grampound, Roche, St Dennis, St Ewe, St Goran, St Mewan, St Michael Caerhays, and St Stephen-in-Brannel.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Carrick wards of Boscawen, Chacewater, Feock, Kea, Kenwyn, Moresk, Newlyn, Perranzabuloe, Probus, Roseland, St Agnes, St Clement, Tregolls, and Trehaverne, and the Borough of Restormel wards of Crinnis, Mevagissey, Poltair, Rock, St Ewe, St Mewan, St Stephen-in-Brannel, Trevarna, and Treverbyn.\n\nThe constituency has existed in a number of different forms. The constituency of Truro, up until 1885 elected two members to parliament; this was reduced to one. In 1918 the constituency was abolished but it was recreated again in 1950.\n\nThe seat became a safe Lib Dem bet thanks to the popularity and eloquence of its former MP, David Penhaligon. His death in a car crash, aged only 42, robbed the House of Commons of one of its most independent-minded and pragmatic members. His successor, Matthew Taylor, held the seat comfortably from a by-election in 1987, and remained its MP after the name change in 1997.\n\n\n178 free burgesses polled for Lubbock and Tooke, and one for Scott and Peach, but their votes were rejected.\n\n24 votes were tendered by inhabitant householders for Tooke and Willyams, but these were rejected.\n\n \n\nTurner's death caused a by-election.\n\n \n\nMontague Edward Smith resigned after being appointed a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, causing a by-election.\n\nVivian was appointed a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury, causing a by-election.\n\nVivian resigned after being appointed Under-Secretary of State for War.\n\nWilliams' death caused a by-election.\n\n \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829646", "title": "Bournemouth East (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bournemouth East (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBournemouth East is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Tobias Ellwood, a Conservative.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Bournemouth wards of Boscombe East, Boscombe West, King's Park, Moordown North, Moordown South, Queen's Park, Southbourne, and West Southbourne.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Bournemouth wards of Boscombe East, Boscombe West, Central, East Cliff, Littledown, Moordown, Muscliff, Queen's Park, Southbourne, Strouden Park, and West Southbourne.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Bournemouth wards of Boscombe East, Boscombe West, Littledown, Moordown, Muscliff, Queen's Park, Southbourne, Strouden Park, and West Southbourne.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Bournemouth wards of Boscombe East, Boscombe West, East Cliff and Springbourne, East Southbourne and Tuckton, Littledown and Iford, Moordown, Queen's Park, Strouden Park, Throop and Muscliff, and West Southbourne.\n\nThe constituency is based on the eastern portion of Bournemouth, in Dorset, including the Southbourne district at the border of Christchurch, Boscombe, Throop, and Queen's Park.\n\nFollowing boundary changes enacted at the 2010 United Kingdom general election, the western boundary of the constituency changed so that it aligned with ward boundaries (which had changed since the constituency boundary changes of the 1990s). The main changes saw Eastcliff brought into the constituency with the loss of part of east Winton.\n\nBournemouth town centre was in this constituency from 1983 to 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829648", "title": "Imagination (band)", "text": "Imagination (band)\n\nImagination were an English three piece band, who came to prominence in the early 1980s. They had hits in 28 countries, earning four platinum discs, nine gold discs and more than a dozen silver discs around the world between 1981 and 1983.\n\nSinger/keyboardist Leee John (born 23 June 1957, Hackney, London) was working as a backing vocalist for the Delfonics, Chairmen of the Board, the Velvelettes and the Elgins when he met Ashley Ingram, a guitarist/bassist (born 27 November 1960, Northampton). John and Ingram formed a songwriting partnership, resolving to start their own 'slinky, sexy and erotic' group, working in a short-lived band called \"Fizzz\". Whilst they were auditioning for another short-lived band, \"Midnight Express\", they met drummer Errol Kennedy (born 9 June 1953, Montego Bay, Jamaica) who, at a very young age, had learned to drum in the Boys' Brigade and Air Training Corps. Kennedy was a member of the London-based soul-funk band \"TFB\" (\"Typical Funk Band\") later known as Central Line, prior to co-founding Midnight Express.\n\nFormed in early 1981, the trio took a demo tape of a track called \"Body Talk\" to producers Jolley & Swain. It was released as a single in April 1981 under the group name Imagination, a name that the group chose as a tribute to John Lennon. The track reached number 4 in the UK Singles Chart in July 1981, selling 250,000 copies in the UK and spending eighteen weeks in the Top 50. They had two more hit singles that year, \"In and Out of Love\" (September) and \"Flashback\" (November), both of which peaked at number 16, all from their debut album, also called \"Body Talk\".\n\nTheir biggest hit, \"Just an Illusion\", peaked at number two in March 1982 (\"Just an Illusion\" would later be used as the end title song to the 1986 film, \"F/X\"); followed by \"Music and Lights\" (number five in June), \"In the Heat of the Night\" (number 22 in September, also the name of their second album) and \"Changes\" (number 31 in December). This was accompanied by a sell-out concert tour of Europe, with 22 dates in the UK. The trio frequently appeared on BBC Television's \"Top of the Pops\", and other pop music television programmes, with a distinctive exotic style, reminiscent of Roman senators, harem orderlies and slaves. John made a guest appearance on \"Doctor Who\" in 1983. They were also known for their esoteric album sleeve notes.\n\nFollowing this the success of the group in the UK waned, but they continued to perform, tour and record. In 1987, they were signed to RCA Records, but by the end of that year Ingram and Kennedy left the band. John with new members, Nat Augustin and Peter Royer continued and recorded a last album \"Fascination of the Physical\", in 1992. The band split in 1992.\n\nJohn went back to acting, but re-surfaced as a singer in the reality television show, \"Reborn in the USA\". Ingram also enjoyed success as a songwriter for Des'ree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829649", "title": "Bournemouth West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bournemouth West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBournemouth West is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Conor Burns, a Conservative.\n\n1950–1974: The County Borough of Bournemouth wards of Central, East Cliff, Kinson, Moordown North, Moordown South, Redhill Park, Westbourne, West Cliff, and Winton.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Bournemouth wards of Central, East Cliff, Kinson North, Kinson South, Redhill Park, Westbourne, West Cliff, and Winton.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Bournemouth wards of Ensbury Park, Kinson, Redhill Park, Talbot Woods, Wallisdown, Westbourne, West Cliff, and Winton, and the Borough of Poole wards of Alderney, Bourne Valley, and Canford Magna.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Bournemouth wards of Central, East Cliff, Ensbury Park, Kinson, Redhill Park, Talbot Woods, Wallisdown, Westbourne, West Cliff, and Winton.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Bournemouth wards of Central, Kinson North, Kinson South, Redhill and Northbourne, Talbot and Branksome Woods, Wallisdown and Winton West, Westbourne and West Cliff, and Winton East, and the Borough of Poole wards of Alderney and Branksome East.\n\nThe constituency includes the western portion of Bournemouth, from the Kinson, Winton, and Talbot Woods areas down towards the town centre and the West Cliff. Following a boundary change for the 2010 general election, the constituency gained the Branksome area from Poole whilst losing East Cliff to the neighbouring Bournemouth East constituency.\n\nThe constituency contains Labour's best ward in Bournemouth in the district of Kinson, but the seat has elected Conservatives at every election since its creation in 1950 and is considered safe for them.\n\nWith the exception of the period 1983-1997 (when it was in Bournemouth East), Bournemouth town centre has been in this constituency since its creation in 1950.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829653", "title": "Bristol North West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bristol North West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBristol North West is a constituency to the north and north-west of Bristol city centre.\n\nSave for two elections in 1974, and one in 1964, when the seat leant to the right, bucking the national result, the affiliation of the winning candidate was that of the winning party nationally for the years 1959–2015, making it a bellwether.\n\nParty positions altered completely in 2010 with the Liberal Democrat candidate, Paul Harrod achieving second place with a slightly larger one party swing, of 11.4%, than winning candidate Charlotte Leslie and saw a fresh Labour Party candidate suffer a large decrease in percentage of the Labour vote of 20.8%. This changed in 2015 with the Conservatives winning the seat with an increased majority of 9.5%, and Labour moving back into second place. In the snap 2017 general election, the seat was lost to the Labour party on a swing of 9%.\n\nThe 2017 win was a surprise to the successful Labour candidate Darren Jones. He attributes his win to three factors: Corbyn and a good Labour manifesto, the youth vote, and Europe (the constituency had voted 61% remain).\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Bristol wards of Avon, Durdham, Horfield, and Westbury-on-Trym.\n\n1955–1983: The County Borough of Bristol wards of Avon, Henbury, Horfield, Southmead, and Westbury-on-Trym.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Bristol wards of Avonmouth, Henbury, Horfield, Kingsweston, Lockleaze, Southmead, and Westbury-on-Trym, and the District of Northavon wards of Filton Charborough, Filton Conygre, Filton Northville, Stoke Gifford North, and Stoke Gifford South.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Bristol wards of Avonmouth, Henbury, Horfield, Kingsweston, Lockleaze, and Southmead, and the District of Northavon wards of Filton Charborough, Filton Conygre, Filton Northville, Patchway Callicroft, Patchway Coniston, Patchway Stoke Lodge, Stoke Gifford North, and Stoke Gifford South.\n\n2010–present: The City of Bristol wards of Avonmouth, Henbury, Henleaze, Horfield, Kingsweston, Lockleaze, Southmead, Stoke Bishop, and Westbury-on-Trym.\n\nThe constituency boundary extends into the Severn Estuary as far as, but not including, the islands of Flat Holm and Steep Holm.\n\nFollowing the review by the Boundary Commission for England into parliamentary representation in the former county of Avon Somerset and Gloucestershire the constituency had boundary changes at the 2010 general election. In particular, the constituency is now wholly contained within the City of Bristol: the areas of Filton, Patchway, Stoke Gifford, Bradley Stoke and Aztec West which are in the South Gloucestershire district were transferred to a new Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency. At the same time, the areas of Stoke Bishop, Henleaze and Westbury-on-Trym were gained from Bristol West.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829655", "title": "Bristol South (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bristol South (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBristol South is a constituency. It encompasses suburbs of South Bristol.\n\n1885–1918: The Borough of Bristol wards of Bedminster East, Bedminster West, Bristol, and Redcliffe, and part of the civil parish of Bedminster.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Bristol wards of Bedminster East, Bedminster West, and Southville, and part of Somerset ward.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Bristol wards of Bedminster, Somerset, Southville, and Windmill Hill.\n\n1955–1983: The County Borough of Bristol wards of Bedminster, Bishopsworth, Hengrove, Somerset, and Southville.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Bristol wards of Bedminster, Bishopsworth, Filwood, Hartcliffe, Knowle, Southville, Whitchurch Park, and Windmill Hill.\n\n1997–present: The City of Bristol wards of Bedminster, Bishopsworth, Filwood, Hartcliffe, Hengrove, Knowle, Southville, Whitchurch Park, and Windmill Hill.\n\nThe constituency covers the south-west of Bristol, bounded by the Avon New Cut to the north, the A37 Wells Road to the east, and the city boundaries to the south and west.\n\nThe seat has elected Labour MPs since 1935. The closest result, giving a marginal majority, was the 1987 election where Dawn Primarolo won a majority of 2.7% of the vote — in that election the Social Democratic Party, a 'moderate' breakaway party from the Labour Party, won 19.6% of the vote.\n\nThe incumbent prior to Smyth was Dame Dawn Primarolo who held the seat for 28 years. She was a Minister of the Crown in the Blair Ministry and throughout the Coalition Government 2010 was a Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829657", "title": "Cheltenham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Cheltenham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nCheltenham () is a constituency\nrepresented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. As with all constituencies, the constituency elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election at least every five years.\n\n1885–1918:\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Borough of Cheltenham, and the Urban District of Charlton Kings.\n\n1950–1983: As before but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Cheltenham, and the Borough of Tewkesbury wards of Leckhampton with Up Hatherley, Prestbury St Mary's, and Prestbury St Nicolas. Leckhampton, Up Hatherley, and Prestbury were added to the seat from the Cirencester and Tewkesbury constituency; they had previously been in the abolished Cheltenham Rural District.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Cheltenham wards of All Saints, Charlton Kings, College, Hatherley and The Reddings, Hesters Way, Lansdown, Park, Pittville, St Mark's, St Paul's, and St Peter's. Leckhampton, Up Hatherley, and Prestbury were transferred to the new Tewkesbury constituency; they had been incorporated into the redrawn Borough of Cheltenham in 1991.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Cheltenham wards of All Saints, Battledown, Benhall and The Reddings, Charlton Kings, Charlton Park, College, Hesters Way, Lansdown, Leckhampton, Oakley, Park, Pittville, St Mark's, St Paul's, St Peter's, Springbank, Up Hatherley, and Warden Hill. Leckhampton and Up Hatherley were transferred back to this seat from the Tewkesbury seat.\n\nThe seat covers the town of Cheltenham in Gloucestershire but covers a different, slightly smaller, area from the borough of the same name. It is bordered by the Tewkesbury and Cotswolds seats.\n\nFamous for its racecourse which hosts the annual Cheltenham Gold Cup in March, with a long-established girls' school and right at the edge of the Cotswold Hills, Cheltenham has a large tourism sector. GE Aviation is a large employer and GCHQ, the government communications centre, is here, so numbers of highly skilled workers and professionals (47.5% in the year ended September 2014) are well above the national average (44.6%). One of the West of England's most upmarket towns, the few neighbourhoods of medium levels in the Index of Multiple Deprivation are almost wholly in Hester's Way ward which has the most social housing. About 10% of the electorate are students at the University of Gloucestershire just outside the compact town centre. A Liberal Democrat served the seat from 1992 when their candidate Nigel Jones overturned four decades of Conservative MPs to 2015 when the Tories regained the seat.\n\nCheltenham borough constituency was created in the Great Reform Act of 1832 and has returned nine Liberals (or Liberal Democrats) and nine Conservatives to Parliament since that time, along with one independent.\n\nA Conservative served the constituency from 1950 until 1992. The Conservatives' campaign in the 1992 general election following the Poll Tax riots saw a local party member make racist remarks about their own candidate, John Taylor, who was of Afro-Caribbean descent. Taylor lost the election to Nigel Jones of the Liberal Democrats.\n\nIn 2000, Jones was nearly murdered in a horrific incident at one of his MP's surgeries; a man attacked him and an assistant with a samurai sword. His colleague, Andrew Pennington, was killed in the attack. Jones was made a life peer in 2005. The Liberal Democrats held Cheltenham in the 2005 election when Martin Horwood won the election, and again in 2010, but lost when the Conservatives retook the seat in 2015.\n\nIn 2019, Labour failed to obtain the 5% threshold, so lost their deposit. \n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nA general election was due to take place by the end of 1915. By the autumn of 1914, the following candidates had been adopted to contest that election. \nDue to the outbreak of war, the election never took place.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829658", "title": "Christchurch (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Christchurch (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nChristchurch is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Sir Christopher Chope of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe original Christchurch constituency, a parliamentary borough, existed from 1572 until 1918.\n\nThe constituency was re-created as a county constituency in 1983 from parts of the seats of Christchurch and Lymington, North Dorset and New Forest. It has since 1983 seen strong Conservative majorities, with the exception of a 1993 by-election caused by the death of Robert Adley when it was won by Diana Maddock, a Liberal Democrat. The Conservatives regained the seat at the next general election in 1997, despite their landslide defeat nationally and Chris Chope has retained it ever since. As of 2017, it is the second strongest Conservative seat in terms of voteshare (69.7%) and strongest in terms of majority (49.6%) in the country, although 2017 also saw Labour come second in the seat for the first time in history, having historically been far weaker than the Liberal Democrats and, in 2015, UKIP.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Christchurch, and the District of Wimborne wards of Ameysford, Ferndown Central, Golf Links, Longham, St Leonards and St Ives East, St Leonards and St Ives South, St Leonards and St Ives West, Stapehill, Tricketts Cross, Verwood, West Moors North, West Moor South, and West Parley.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Christchurch, and the District of East Dorset wards of Ameysford, Ferndown Central, Golf Links, St Leonards and St Ives East, St Leonards and St Ives South, St Leonards and St Ives West, Tricketts Cross, Verwood, West Moors North, West Moors South, and West Parley.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Christchurch, and the District of East Dorset wards of Ameysford, Ferndown Central, Ferndown Links, Longham, Parley, St Leonards and St Ives East, St Leonards and St Ives West, Stapehill, and West Moors.\n\nThe area is not as rural as the adjoining New Forest constituencies, nor as urban as Bournemouth and Poole, and contains a mixed assortment of coastal retirement havens, outlying Bournemouth suburbs and the town of Christchurch itself which has expanded to include dedicated villages of sheltered housing on its outskirts.\n\nConsequently, the present Christchurch seat contains one of the most elderly electorates in the country – only Eastbourne and Devon East have an older average voter age and Christchurch has the highest proportion of over-60s of all UK seats. Having recovered from an early-1990s by-election loss, it is a safe Conservative seat, with MP Christopher Chope attaining a majority of over 30% at the last general election. It is the safest Tory seat in the South West and on most analyses is on the fringe of the area that usually qualifies as the South West, served by a station with direct links to the capital and closest to London.\n\nBournemouth Airport is located in the constituency.\n\nPercentage share changes compared with 1992 general election. .\n\nThe original tally for the 1906 election had Balfour with 3,411 votes and Brassey with 3,408 votes. However, a recount resulted in the increased majority for Balfour.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected;\n\nRose resigned by accepting the office of Steward of the Manor of Northstead, causing a by-election.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829659", "title": "The Cotswolds (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "The Cotswolds (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nThe Cotswolds is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since its 1997 creation by Sir Geoffrey Clifton-Brown, a Conservative.\n\nThe Cotswolds is a safe Conservative seat in an area of natural beauty and heritage, with its market towns constructed of rare cream-to-yellow Cotswold stone. The area is welcoming to tourists and tourism has overtaken agriculture as the largest single employer in the area.\n\nThe largest town in the constituency is Cirencester, a compact traditional town. Other settlements include Andoversford, Bourton-on-the-Water, Chipping Campden, Fairford, Lechlade, Moreton-in-Marsh, Northleach, Stow-on-the-Wold, Tetbury (and the neighbouring village of Doughton, location of Highgrove, the Prince of Wales's estate), and Wotton-under-Edge.\n\nThe seat has the highest number of listed buildings of any constituency in Britain. It also contains eight of the 20 most popular attractions in Gloucestershire, including Westonbirt Arboretum, Hidcote Manor, and Chedworth Roman Villa.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.6% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThis was also the constituency that, when declared during the 2015 UK general election, saw the Conservatives win a surprise majority, in which David Cameron was re-elected as prime minister; a hung parliament had been widely expected.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 as Cotswold, mostly from the former seat of Cirencester and Tewkesbury. In 2010 the name was changed to The Cotswolds to reflect the commonly used name of the area.\n\n2010–present: The District of Cotswold, and the District of Stroud wards of Kingswood, Minchinhampton, and Wotton-under-Edge.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Cotswold, and the District of Stroud ward of Wotton and Kingswood.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829660", "title": "Devizes (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Devizes (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nDevizes is a constituency in Wiltshire, England, which is represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament and includes four towns and many villages in the middle and east of the county. The area's representative has been a Conservative since 1924.\n\nUntil 1885 Devizes was a parliamentary borough, electing two Members of Parliament (MPs) by the bloc vote system until the 1868 election, when the Reform Act 1867 reduced its representation to one MP, elected by the first-past-the-post system of election. The Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 abolished the parliamentary borough, and created a new county constituency of the same name, covering a wider area and electing one member. It has returned a Conservative MP at every election since 1924.\n\nIts most notable MP was Henry Addington, who held the seat during his term as Prime Minister, as well as when he was Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\n1885–1918: The Boroughs of Devizes and Marlborough, the Sessional Divisions of Devizes, Everley, Marlborough, and Ramsey, and part of the Sessional Division of Pewsey.\n\n1918–1950: The Boroughs of Devizes and Marlborough, the Rural Districts of Devizes, Marlborough, Pewsey, and Ramsbury, and part of the Rural District of Highworth.\n\n1950–1983: The Boroughs of Devizes and Marlborough, and the Rural Districts of Devizes, Highworth, Marlborough and Ramsbury, and Pewsey.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Kennet, and the Borough of Thamesdown wards of Blunsdon, Chiseldon, Covingham, Highworth, Ridgeway, St Margaret, St Philip, and Wroughton.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Kennet, the District of North Wiltshire wards of Calne Abberd, Calne Central, Calne North, Calne North East, Calne South, and Calne Without, and the District of West Wiltshire wards of Blackmore Forest, Melksham Forest, Melksham Lambourne, Melksham Roundpoint, Melksham Town, and Melksham Woodrow.\n\n2010–present: The District of Kennet, and the District of Salisbury wards of Bulford and Durrington.\n\nThe Devizes constituency covers Devizes in Wiltshire and the surrounding former Kennet district, which includes the towns of Marlborough, Ludgershall and Tidworth, together with the large villages of Bulford, Durrington and Pewsey.\n\nDevizes has been a safe Conservative seat since 1945. The current Member of Parliament is Danny Kruger who was first elected at the 2019 general election, succeeding Claire Perry, who had stood down at that election after nine years of holding the seat.\nDevizes was the stated constituency of fictional Conservative MP The Honourable Sir Piers Fletcher-Dervish, Baronet, later Junior Minister for Housing, in the TV sitcom \"The New Statesman\", which was produced and set during the same decade (1980s) that Charles Andrew Morrison was MP for the real-life seat. He was portrayed by actor Michael Troughton.\n\nGeneral election 1939/40:\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral election 1914/15:\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\"Seat reduced to one member\"\n\n \n\nGore resigned after defecting to the Tories, causing a by-election.\n\nLocke's death caused a by-election.\n\nDurham resigned, causing a by-election.\n\nDundas was appointed as Clerk of the Ordnance, requiring a by-election.\n\n\nSotheron resigned, by accepting the office of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, in order to contest a by-election at North Wiltshire, causing a by-election.\n\nBruges resigned by accepting the office of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, causing a by-election.\n\n \n\nGladstone's death caused a by-election.\n\nAddington succeeded to the peerage, causing a by-election.\n\n\n \n\n\n\nCraig, F. W. S. (1983). British parliamentary election results 1918–1949 (3 ed.). Chichester: Parliamentary Research Services. .\n\n"}
{"id": "1829661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829661", "title": "Forest of Dean (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Forest of Dean (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nForest of Dean is a parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Mark Harper, a Conservative.\n\n1885–1918: The Sessional Divisions of Coleford, Lydney, Newent, and Newnham.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban Districts of Awre, Coleford, Newnham, and Westbury-on-Severn, the Rural Districts of East Dean and United Parishes, Lydney, Newent, and West Dean, and part of the Rural District of Gloucester.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Forest of Dean, and the Borough of Tewkesbury wards of Haw Bridge and Highnam.\n\n2010–present: The District of Forest of Dean, and the Borough of Tewkesbury ward of Highnam with Haw Bridge. The constituency boundaries remained unchanged.\n\nThis seat was created for the 1885 general election (replacing the two-seat constituency of West Gloucestershire under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885), was redrawn for the 1918 general election, and abolished for the 1950 general election. It was re-created, with different boundaries, for the 1997 general election, and has thus far not undergone any boundary changes.\n\nThe Forest of Dean constituency covers Gloucestershire west of the river Severn, and lies in the south west of England, near the Welsh border.\n\nThe core of the constituency consists of the Royal Forest of Dean itself, which was established by William the Conqueror nearly a thousand years ago and is one of the last surviving Royal Forests in England. The seat has a rich industrial and mining history, evidenced by the market towns of Coleford and Cinderford, and the old port of Lydney from where coal mined in the Forest of Dean Coalfield would start its journey to all parts of the world.\n\nThe Wye Valley forms the western border of the Forest and is an area of outstanding natural beauty, whilst the Leadon Valley forms the northern portion of the constituency. The Vale consists of countryside and farmland centred on the Tudor town of Newent, and also produces English wine.\n\nThe constituency also includes parishes from Tewkesbury district, including Forthampton, Chaceley Hole, Hasfield, Ashleworth and Highnam.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15\n\nA general election was due to take place by the end of 1915. By the autumn of 1914, the following candidates had been selected to contest that election. Due to the outbreak of war, the election never took place;\n\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "1829662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829662", "title": "Gloucester (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Gloucester (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nGloucester is a constituency centred on the cathedral city and county town of the same name, represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament by Richard Graham of the Conservative Party.\n\nA borough of Gloucester was established by 1295 that returned two burgesses as Members of Parliament to the House of Commons. Its population meant this was a situation not leading to an outright rotten borough identified for abolition under the Reform Act 1832 however on more fair (far more equal representation) national changes in 1885, representation was reduced to one member under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\n\nSince 1979 Gloucester has been a bellwether constituency by passing between representatives of the two largest parties in the same way as the government. After nearly three decades as a Conservative seat, it was held by Labour from 1997 to 2010 before returning to a Conservative on a swing of 8.9%.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Gloucester.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Gloucester, and in the Rural District of Gloucester the parishes of Barnwood, Brockworth, Hempsted, Hucclecote, and Wotton Vill.\n\n1955–1974: The County Borough of Gloucester, and in the Rural District of Gloucester the parishes of Barnwood, Brockworth, Hempsted, and Hucclecote.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Gloucester.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Gloucester, and the District of Stroud wards of Quedgeley and Hardwicke, and Upton St Leonards.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Gloucester.\n\n2010–present: The City of Gloucester wards of Abbey, Barnwood, Barton and Tredworth, Elmbridge, Grange, Hucclecote, Kingsholm and Wotton, Matson and Robinswood, Moreland, Podsmead, Quedgeley Fieldcourt, Quedgeley Severn Vale, Tuffley, and Westgate.\n\nIn 1881, Robinson's willingness to stand down faced with a popular petition and the unwillingness of the Conservatives to make allegations nor investigate matters further led to suspicions of collusion between the parties and a Royal Commission was set up to examine electoral practices. The Royal Commission concluded that Gloucester was among the most corrupt of the seven towns investigated and that bribery was endemic in all elections in the city. The Commission concluded that half of the electorate had taken bribes in 1880 and blamed local politicians for most of the corruption. Despite these findings and virtually halving the electorate eligible to vote Robinson was reelected for Gloucester in 1885 when representation had been reduced to one member under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\n\nNote: The Brexit Party were due to field Richard Ford as a candidate, but the nomination was withdrawn.\n\n\n \n\n\n \n\n \n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n \n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829663", "title": "Kingswood (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Kingswood (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nKingswood is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Chris Skidmore, a Conservative.\n\nThe constituency has existed since the February 1974 general election. This marginal constituency has been held by the Conservative and Labour parties to date. Before the 2010 election, when the seat was held by Labour, it was 135th on the Conservative Party target seats list and in the 2015 election it was 41st on the Labour Party's target seats.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban Districts of Kingswood and Mangotsfield, and the Rural District of Warmley.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Kingswood wards of Chase, Chiphouse, Downend, Forest, Hanham, Mangotsfield, New Cheltenham, Soundwell, Staple Hill, and Woodstock, and the City of Bristol wards of Frome Vale, Hillfields, St George East, and St George West.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Kingswood wards of Badminton, Blackhorse, Bromley Heath, Chase, Chiphouse, Downend, Forest, Hanham, Mangotsfield, New Cheltenham, Oldland Barrs Court, Oldland Cadbury Heath, Oldland Longwell Green, Siston, Soundwell, Springfield, Staple Hill, and Woodstock, and the City of Bristol wards of Frome Vale and Hillfields.\n\nMay 2019 to present: The District of South Gloucestershire wards of Bitton and Oldland Common, Hanham, Kingswood, New Cheltenham, Woodstock, Longwell Green, Parkwall & Warmley.\n\nThe constituency covers part of the South Gloucestershire unitary authority, consisting of the eastern suburbs of Bristol and commuter villages outside of the city boundary, including the town of Kingswood. It largely corresponds to the former borough of Kingswood.\n\nThe Boundary Commission's Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies prompted the boundary changes with effect from the 2010 general election. In particular, all wards in the constituency are now from the South Gloucestershire authority. Prior to 2010, the Frome Vale and Hillfields wards of the City of Bristol were part of the Kingswood constituency, but have been transferred to Bristol East. Within South Gloucestershire, the Kingswood seat has gained Hanham, Bitton and Oldland Common from the former Wansdyke constituency, but lost Downend and Staple Hill to the new Filton and Bradley Stoke seat.\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829664", "title": "Northavon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Northavon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorthavon was, from 1983 until 2010, a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency was established in 1983. Held initially by the Conservative Party, it was gained narrowly by the Liberal Democrats in 1997, then swung heavily in their favour in 2001 and was held again in 2005.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Northavon wards of Almondsbury, Alveston, Badminton, Charfield, Chipping Sodbury, Dodington North, Frampton Cotterell Central, Frampton Cotterell East, Frampton Cotterell West, Hawkesbury, Iron Acton, Marshfield, Oldbury-on-Severn, Olveston, Patchway Callicroft, Patchway Coniston, Patchway Stoke Lodge, Pilning and Severn Beach, Pucklechurch, Thornbury North, Thornbury South, Westerleigh Stanshawes, Westerleigh and Coalpit Heath, Wick and Abson, Wickwar, Winterbourne, Winterbourne Down and Hambrook, Winterbourne Frenchay, Yate Central, Yate North, Yate South, and Yate West.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Northavon wards of Almondsbury, Alveston, Badminton, Charfield, Chipping Sodbury, Dodington North, Frampton Cotterell Central, Frampton Cotterell East, Frampton Cotterell West, Hawkesbury, Iron Acton, Marshfield, Oldbury-on-Severn, Olveston, Pilning and Severn Beach, Pucklechurch, Thornbury North, Thornbury South, Westerleigh and Coalpit Heath, Wick and Abson, Wickwar, Winterbourne, Winterbourne Down and Hambrook, Winterbourne Frenchay, Yate Central, Yate North, Yate South, Yate Stanshawes, and Yate West.\n\nNorthavon covered the same area as the former Northavon district (the more rural part of the current South Gloucestershire district) at its creation, but some of the constituency moved to Bristol North West with the boundary review implemented in 1997. The constituency included suburban and industrial areas on the outskirts of Bristol and several dormitory towns and small villages.\n\nFollowing the review by the Boundary Commission for England of parliamentary representation in the former Avon county, taking effect at the 2010 general election, the Northavon seat has been abolished. It has been largely replaced by the Thornbury and Yate seat, but also by Filton and Bradley Stoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829665", "title": "Poole (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Poole (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nPoole is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Robert Syms, a Conservative.\n\nThe first version of the Poole constituency existed from 1455 until 1885. During this period its exact status was a parliamentary borough, sending two burgesses to Westminster per year, except during its last 17 years when its representation was reduced to one member.\n\nDuring its abeyance most of Poole was in the East Dorset seat and since its recreation in 1950 its area has been reduced as the harbour town's population has increased.\n\n1950–1983: The Municipal Borough of Poole.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Poole wards of Broadstone, Canford Cliffs, Canford Heath, Creekmoor, Hamworthy, Harbour, Newtown, Oakdale, Parkstone, and Penn Hill.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Poole wards of Bourne Valley, Canford Cliffs, Hamworthy, Harbour, Newtown, Oakdale, Parkstone, and Penn Hill.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Poole wards of Branksome West, Canford Cliffs, Creekmoor, Hamworthy East, Hamworthy West, Newtown, Oakdale, Parkstone, Penn Hill, and Poole Town.\n\nThe borough is an economically very diverse borough. In the centre and north are a significant minority of Output Areas which in 2001 had high rankings in the Index of Multiple Deprivation, contributing in 2012 with the remainder to producing for Poole the highest unemployment of the constituencies in the county. However, Canford Cliffs is epitomised by one sub-neighbourhood, \"Sandbanks\" with its multimillion-pound properties, the coastline area has been dubbed as \"\"Britain's Palm Beach\"\" by the national media. Alongside oil extraction, insurance, care, retail and customer service industries choosing the town as their base tourism contributes to overall a higher income than the national average, however the divergence is not statistically significant and the size of homes varies extensively.\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829666", "title": "Stroud (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Stroud (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nStroud is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament.\n\nSiobhan Kathleen Baillie is the British current Member of Parliament (MP) for Stroud since the 2019 general election.\n\nStroud was the only seat (held or gained) by the Labour Party in the 2017 from a total of six covering its county. Drew's 2017 win was one of 30 net gains the Labour Party made at that year's snap general election. Stroud has been relative to others a very marginal seat since 1992 as well as a swing seat, as the winning candidate's majority has not exceeded 9.1% of the vote since the 19.2% majority won at that year's election. The seat has changed hands three times since then.\n\nA previous parliamentary borough form of constituency of the same name was created by the First Reform Act for the 1832 general election. It elected two MPs using the bloc vote system until it was transformed in the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 for that year's general election, the name being transferred to a single-seat county division which covered a wider geographical area.\n\nThis was abolished at the 1950 general election, partially replaced with a new Stroud and Thornbury county constituency. That was in turn abolished at the 1955 general election, when the present entity was created. Since this recreation the seat has had boundary changes.\n\n1955–1974: The Urban Districts of Nailsworth and Stroud, the Rural Districts of Dursley, Stroud, and Tetbury, and part of the Rural District of Gloucester.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban Districts of Nailsworth and Stroud, the Rural Districts of Dursley, Stroud, and Tetbury, and in the Rural District of Gloucester the parishes of Arlingham, Brookthorpe with Whaddon, Eastington, Elmore, Frampton on Severn, Fretherne with Saul, Frocester, Hardwicke, Harescombe, Haresfield, Longney, Moreton Valence, Quedgeley, Standish, Upton St Leonards, and Whitminster.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Stroud wards of Berkeley, Bisley, Cainscross, Cam, Cambridge, Central, Chalford, Dursley, Eastington, Hinton, King's Stanley, Leonard Stanley, Minchinhampton, Nailsworth, Nibley, Painswick, Parklands, Randwick, Rodborough, Severn, Stonehouse, Thrupp, Trinity, Uley, Uplands, Vale, Whiteshill, Woodfield, and Wotton and Kingswood, and the District of Cotswold wards of Avening, Grumbold's Ash, and Tetbury.\n\n1997–2010: All the wards of the District of Stroud except the Wotton and Kingswood ward.\n\n2010–present: The District of Stroud wards of Amberley and Woodchester, Berkeley, Bisley, Cainscross, Cam East, Cam West, Central, Chalford, Coaley and Uley, Dursley, Eastington and Standish, Farmhill and Paganhill, Hardwicke, Nailsworth, Over Stroud, Painswick, Rodborough, Severn, Slade, Stonehouse, The Stanleys, Thrupp, Trinity, Uplands, Upton St Leonards, Vale, and Valley.\n\nThe extent of the constituency is almost all of the Stroud district (it also provides three wards to The Cotswolds seat). As such, the north-west boundary of the constituency is the River Severn, which meanders from Gloucester towards the River's estuary.\n\nStroud lies south of Gloucester, between the two larger Gloucestershire rural constituencies of The Cotswolds and Forest of Dean. Though partially situated in the Cotswold Hills, Stroud is both smaller in area and more industrialised than these neighbours.\n\nMuch of the constituency is rural in character. Through the sparsely populated bulk, is a belt across the middle of the constituency that has a group of small but more urbanised villages, including Caincross, Cam and Rodborough.\n\nThe major market towns include Stroud itself, Dursley in the south of the constituency, and the smaller towns of Berkeley (which in fact has a smaller electorate than Chalford, but more facilities), Stonehouse and Nailsworth.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.1% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939 and by the end of this year, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n \n\n\n\n\nCraig, F. W. S. (1983). British parliamentary election results 1918-1949 (3 ed.). Chichester: Parliamentary Research Services. .\n"}
{"id": "1829667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829667", "title": "North Swindon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North Swindon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth Swindon is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Justin Tomlinson, a Conservative.\n\nNorth Swindon was created in 1997 and has been a bellwether since then. However, during the 2010s, the Conservatives did win the constituency by much higher numbers than their national popular vote margin.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Thamesdown wards of Blunsdon, Covingham, Gorse Hill, Haydon Wick, Highworth, Moredon, St Margaret, St Philip, Western, and Whitworth, and the District of North Wiltshire ward of Cricklade.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Swindon wards of Abbey Meads, Blunsdon, Covingham and Nythe, Gorse Hill and Pinehurst, Haydon Wick, Highworth, Moredon, Penhill, St Margaret, St Philip, and Western.\n\nThe seat's boundaries encompass an area that before its creation made up parts of the former Swindon constituency and pre-1997 versions of North Wiltshire and Devizes. In the 2010 boundary changes Cricklade became part of the North Wiltshire constituency while this seat acquired parts of the South Swindon constituency.\n\nThe constituency covers much of urban and suburban Swindon, but also incorporates a substantial portion of the surrounding area, including Blunsdon and the market town of Highworth. North Swindon has an electorate of 79,488, the majority of whom live in the suburbs or close to Swindon's town centre. In 2001 52.9% of homes were into the categories of semi-detached or detached in the Swindon Local Authority area and seeing a 5.0% increase in flats/apartments in 2011 this figure had fallen slightly to 50.3%. In North Wiltshire a higher proportion of homes are detached (35.1%). In the same period those registered unemployed rose from 2.5% to 4.2% and those self-employed rose from 6.2% to 7.8%. In 2010 the unemployment rate for Swindon South was 2.6%, compared to 3.5% in Swindon North. This is one indicator of social deprivation and compares a rate of 11.0% in Birmingham Ladywood, the constituency with the highest rate nationally.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829668", "title": "South Swindon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "South Swindon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSouth Swindon is a constituency in Swindon, Wiltshire, represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Robert Buckland, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Thamesdown wards of Central, Chiseldon, Dorcan, Eastcott, Freshbrook, Lawns, Park, Ridgeway, Toothill, Walcot, and Wroughton.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Swindon wards of Central, Dorcan, Eastcott, Freshbrook and Grange Park, Old Town and Lawn, Parks, Ridgeway, Shaw and Nine Elms, Toothill and Westlea, Walcot, and Wroughton and Chiseldon.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the seats of Swindon that was abolished, and Devizes that remains. This seat with a population of around 93,000 incorporates the southern half of the town as well as farms and villages with hamlets to the immediate south and east of Swindon.\n\nIt used slightly amended boundaries for the 2010 election, which saw it lose South Marston to North Swindon. The border now runs from Dorcan across to Bishopstone and then down to Russley Park before running west to Barbury Castle. From there it runs north to the Roughmoor area and loops back down to incorporate West Swindon, before following the railway line east through the town and back to Dorcan. In addition to the south of Swindon, main settlements include Wroughton, Chiseldon, Wanborough and Liddington.\n\nHistorically Swindon is a railway town and until the latter part of the 20th century the related works were the primary employer. Today Swindon is the home of a number of large companies, examples specific to South Swindon include Intel's European headquarters, Nationwide's headquarters and Zurich Financial Services' UK headquarters.\n\nCreated in 1997, the Swindon South constituency, swinging in line with the national average in the New Labour landslide, produced a fairly safe majority for the Labour winner. Julia Drown had a lead of more than 5,000 which was extended in 2001 to more than 7,000 but then dropped dramatically on a new candidate's selection, to just 1,353 in 2005. In 2010 Robert Buckland, a Conservative, gained South Swindon at the general election with a majority of just over 3500. In 2015, the Conservative majority increased to 5785; in 2017, the Conservative majority fell to 2,464 on a 3.5% swing to Labour. In 2019, Buckland’s majority rose to 6625 (13%) and 52% of the vote with a swing of 4.1% to Conservative. These patterns suggest a seat that is more marginal than its neighbour North Swindon, and one which has acted as a bellwether of the national result. Incumbent MP Buckland is the current Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829669", "title": "June Sarpong", "text": "June Sarpong\n\nJune Konadu Sarpong (born 31 May 1977) is a British television broadcaster and former panellist on ITV's \"Loose Women\". She is currently a panellist on the Sky News programme \"The Pledge\". In October 2019, Sarpong was appointed as the BBC's first Director of Creative Diversity.\n\nSarpong was born in Newham to Ghanaian parents Thelma ( Amihere) and Samuel Sarpong. She was educated at Connaught School for Girls in Leytonstone and Sir George Monoux College in Walthamstow.\n\nShe began her media career with the radio station Kiss 100 and later became an MTV UK and Ireland presenter (MTV \"Dance Floor Chart\"). In 2001, she appeared on \"Lily Savage's Blankety Blank\" (ITV). As one of the female faces of Channel 4’s daytime teen-aimed strand T4 for nine years, she interviewed Tony Blair for a T4 special, \"When Tony Met June\", which aired in January 2005. She also runs her own production company, Lipgloss Productions. Projects in development include a sitcom and a programme on climate change.\n\nIn recent years, Sarpong has presented other series, including \"Your Face or Mine?\", a game show co-hosted with Jimmy Carr for E4; \"Dirty Laundry\", an urban talk-show that was an original idea of Sarpong's; \"Playing It Straight\", a dating game-show filmed in Mexico for Channel 4, and Sarpong has presented the \"Smash Hits Poll Winners Party\" and the \"Party In The Park\". She is a regular at the MOBO Awards and presented them for three years in a row. She has also appeared on BBC Television's \"Question Time\", Channel 4's \"8 Out of 10 Cats\", and BBC's \"Have I Got News for You\". She also has appeared on the programme \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\" and introduced reports on youth culture for \"This Week\". In 2006 she hosted ITV2's \"WAGs Boutique\". Sarpong has also appeared on the third series of \"Bo' Selecta!\".\n\nSarpong appeared in the \"Extras\" Special Series Finale with Ricky Gervais (2007). On 22 October 2007 it was announced that she had quit her presenter role on T4 after nine years. Her last show was broadcast on 23 December 2007.\n\nSarpong made a guest appearance in \"Little Miss Jocelyn\" series 2, episode 3 (2008). On 6 November 2009 she hosted the Sky1 programme \"Michael Jackson: The Search for...His Spirit\", in which she went around locations pertinent to his life looking for signs of his ghost. The programme was broadcast as part of a double bill, the second part comprising a live séance conducted by Derek Acorah, for which Sarpong again played host.\n\nSarpong worked as an interviewer on Jesse Ventura's \"Conspiracy Theory\" show broadcast on TruTV. On the first episode she made the claim that the 2004 Tsunami was not preceded by \"pretremors or any warning\". Journalist Peter Hadfield criticized this claim as being unsupported by seismological records and scientific papers.\n\nIn late 2013, Elton John performed a variation of his 1970 hit \"Your Song\" with the amended lyrics \"You can tell everybody 'You're June Sarpong'\" as an apparent reference to an in-joke between the pair from a charity event earlier that year.\n\nAfter the \"#WheresJuneSarpongGone\" campaign begun by \"Celebrity Juice\" on 19 March 2015, \"Loose Women\" welcomed her to the panel as a guest panellist on 23 March. Following her first appearance back on our screens, Sarpong appeared on \"Celebrity Juice\", in Fearne Cotton's team, on 2 April.\n\nAfter appearing alongside Ruth Langsford, Coleen Nolan and Janet Street-Porter on 23 March 2015, as a guest panellist, Sarpong later appeared as a guest panellist a further three times on 16 April, 17 April and 1 May. Since appearing on the programme again on 15 May, she became a regular panellist, initially as cover for Sherrie Hewson, while Hewson was filming \"Benidorm\", later on 21 July 2015, Sarpong became a regular. She left the show in December 2016 and made 46 appearances in total.\n\nOn 7 January 2016, June made an emotional speech live on \"Loose Women\", following the death of her brother. The first part of the show was dedicated to him. A picture of a rainbow was re-tweeted more than 5,000 times throughout the course of the show, in his memory. She has been a panellist on two series of \"Debatable\" on BBC Two.\n\nSince April 2016, June has made regular appearances on Sky News \"The Pledge\".\n\nShe is the author of the books \"Diversify: Six Degrees of integration\" (2017) and \"The Power of Women\" (2018).\n\nIn August 2014, Sarpong was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" opposing Scottish independence in the run-up to September's referendum on that issue. In October 2015, she joined the board of the Britain Stronger in Europe campaign, lobbying for the United Kingdom to remain in the European Union.\n\nHer brother was the late Sam Sarpong, who was an actor and host of MTV's \"Yo Momma\". He died on 26 October 2015 at the age of 40 after jumping off a bridge in Pasadena, California.\n\nSarpong was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2007 New Year Honours for services to broadcasting and to charity and Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2020 New Year Honours for services to broadcasting.\n"}
{"id": "1829670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829670", "title": "Greek Gospel of the Egyptians", "text": "Greek Gospel of the Egyptians\n\nThe Greek \"Gospel of the Egyptians\" is an early Christian religious text. Its title is adopted from its opening line.\n\nThe Greek Gospel of the Egyptians (which is quite distinct from the later, wholly Gnostic Coptic Gospel of the Egyptians), perhaps written in the second quarter of the 2nd century, was already cited in Clement of Alexandria's miscellany, the \"Stromata\", where quotations give us many of the brief excerpts that are all that remain; it was also mentioned by Hippolytus, who alludes to \"these various changes of the soul, set forth in the Gospel entitled according to the Egyptians\" and connects the \"Gospel of the Egyptians\" with the Gnostic Naassene sect. Later, that 4th-century collector of heresies, Epiphanius of Salamis, asserts that the Sabellians made use of this gospel; though it is unlikely that he had any firsthand information about Sabellius, who taught in the early 3rd century. The euphemism, the Word \"logos\", as an appellation of the Saviour, which appears in the gospel, betokens the influence of the \"Gospel of John\", thus suggesting a date \"ca\" 120 – 150. No text for it exists outside of these testimonies.\n\nFrom these few fragments, it is unknown how much more extensive the contents were, or what other matters they discussed, or whether the known fragments present essentially the nature of the whole entity, which is apparently a \"sayings\" tradition worked into the familiar formula of a duologue. Also, due to the fragmentary nature, it is unknown whether it constitutes a version of some other known text. \n\nThe \"Gospel of the Egyptians\" was apparently read in Egyptian churches in the 2nd and 3rd centuries.\n\nThe known fragments of text takes the form of a discussion between the disciple Salome and Jesus, who advocates celibacy, or, more accurately, \"each fragment endorses sexual asceticism as the means of breaking the lethal cycle of birth and of overcoming the alleged sinful differences between male and female, enabling all persons to return to what was understood to be their primordial and androgynous state\" (Cameron 1982). The familiar question of Salome— \"How long shall death prevail?\" provoking Jesus' famous answer \"As long as women bear children\"— has echoes in other 2nd and 3rd century apocrypha and is instanced by Theodotus of Byzantium as if it were commonly known: \"67. And when the Saviour says to Salome that there shall be death as long as women bear children, he did not say it as abusing birth, for that is necessary for the salvation of believers.\" This saying must have had a wide circulation, though it did not suit the purpose of any canonical Gospel. A similar view of the body as an entrapment of the soul was an essential understanding of Gnosticism. The rejection of marriage was also supported by the Encratites and many of the other early Christian groupings praised celibacy, and therefore it is difficult to tell from what group the text originated.\n\nAnother comparable verse appended to the \"Gospel of Thomas\", probably in Egypt, reads:\n\nThe so-called Second Epistle of Clement (12:2) closely paraphrases a passage that was also quoted by Clement of Alexandria (in \"Stromateis\" iii):\n\nThe trope appears in the \"Gospel of Thomas\", saying (37): \nFor a somewhat later Gnostic work assigning a prominent role to Jesus' female disciples, see \"Pistis Sophia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829671", "title": "Tewkesbury (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tewkesbury (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTewkesbury is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since its 1997 recreation by Laurence Robertson, a Conservative.\n\nTewkesbury existed in this period, first in the parliamentary borough form. It returned two MPs until this was reduced to one in 1868, then saw itself become instead a larger county division under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, and it was abolished in 1918.\n\n\nThe fourth periodic review of Westminster constituencies in 1997 saw the seat's recreation, from the similar, but slightly larger county division Tewkesbury and Cirencester, compared to the present seat.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Boroughs of Gloucester and Tewkesbury, the Sessional Divisions of Berkeley, Cheltenham, Gloucester, Tewkesbury, and Winchcombe, part of the Sessional Division of Whitminster, and the parish of Slimbridge.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Tewkesbury wards of Ashchurch, Bishop's Cleeve East, Bishop's Cleeve North, Bishop's Cleeve South, Brockworth Glebe, Brockworth Moorfield, Brockworth Westfield, Churchdown Brookfield, Churchdown Parton, Churchdown Pirton, Cleeve Hill, Coombe Hill, Crickley, De Winton, Dumbleton, Gotherington, Horsbere, Innsworth, Shurdington, Tewkesbury Mitton, Tewkesbury Newtown, Tewkesbury Prior's Park, Tewkesbury Town, Twyning, and Winchcombe, and the Borough of Cheltenham wards of Leckhampton with Up Hatherley, Prestbury, and Swindon.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Tewkesbury wards of Ashchurch with Walton Cardiff, Badgeworth, Brockworth, Churchdown Brookfield, Churchdown St John’s, Cleeve Grange, Cleeve Hill, Cleeve St Michael’s, Cleeve West, Coombe Hill, Hucclecote, Innsworth with Down Hatherley, Isbourne, Northway, Oxenton Hill, Shurdington, Tewkesbury Newtown, Tewkesbury Prior's Park, Tewkesbury Town with Mitton, Twyning, and Winchcombe, the Borough of Cheltenham wards of Prestbury and Swindon Village, and the City of Gloucester ward of Longlevens.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the seats of Cirencester and Tewkesbury, Cheltenham and West Gloucestershire.\n\nAs its name suggests, the main town in the constituency is Tewkesbury, but other settlements include Twyning, Ashchurch, Bishop's Cleeve, Winchcombe, Prestbury, Brockworth, Churchdown, Innsworth and Longlevens.\n\nThe town has a raised centre with the second largest parish church in the country that is the church of a former Benedictine monastery, named Tewkesbury Abbey, the town also has its own mustard and July medieval battle festival. Workless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.2% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nThe constituency was enfranchised on 23 March 1610 – the first record of its members sworn is 16 April 1610.\n\nGeneral election 1914/15:\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829672", "title": "Wansdyke (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Wansdyke (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWansdyke was a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1983 general election, and abolished at the 2010 general election.\n\nUntil 1997, it was a safe seat for the Conservative Party. It then became a Labour-held marginal until its abolition.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Wansdyke wards of Bathampton, Batheaston, Bathford, Camerton, Charlcombe, Freshford, Hinton Charterhouse, Keynsham East, Keynsham North, Keynsham South, Keynsham West, Midsomer Norton North, Midsomer Norton Redfield, Newton St Loe, Peasedown St John, Radstock, Saltford, and Westfield, and the District of Kingswood wards of Badminton, Bitton North Common, Bitton Oldland Common, Bitton South, Blackhorse, Bromley Heath, Hanham Abbots East, Hanham Abbots West, Oldland Cadbury Heath, Oldland Longwell Green, Siston, and Springfield.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Wansdyke wards of Cameley, Camerton, Chew Magna, Chew Stoke, Clutton, Compton Dando, Farmborough, Harptrees, High Littleton, Hinton Charterhouse, Keynsham East, Keynsham North, Keynsham South, Keynsham West, Midsomer Norton North, Midsomer Norton Redfield, Newton St Loe, Paulton, Peasedown St John, Publow, Radstock, Saltford, Stowey Sutton, Timsbury, and Westfield, and the Borough of Kingswood wards of Bitton North Common, Bitton Oldland Common, Bitton South, Hanham Abbots East, and Hanham Abbots West.\n\nFrom 1997, Wansdyke covered the part of Bath and North East Somerset not in the Bath constituency. It also contained six wards or parts of wards from South Gloucestershire Council. It was named after the former Wansdyke district, itself named after the Wansdyke, a historical earthwork.\n\nThe constituency was located between the cities of Bristol and Bath, including the towns of Keynsham, Midsomer Norton, Radstock and Saltford, as well as the Chew Valley to the south of Bristol. It also covered parts of South Gloucestershire to the east of Bristol, including Bitton, Longwell Green and Oldland Common.\n\nAt the 2010 general election the seat was replaced with a new North East Somerset constituency. The parts in South Gloucestershire were transferred to the Kingswood constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829674", "title": "Woodspring (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Woodspring (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWoodspring was a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1983 until 2010. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. From 1992 until 2010, it was represented by Liam Fox, former Secretary of State for Defence. Fox went on to represent the new North Somerset constituency from 2010.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Woodspring wards of Backwell, Clevedon Central, Clevedon East, Clevedon North, Clevedon South, Clevedon Walton, Clevedon West, Easton-in-Gordano, Gordano, Long Ashton, Nailsea East, Nailsea North and West, North Weston, Portishead Central, Portishead Coast, Portishead South, Portishead West, Winford, and Wraxall, and the District of Wansdyke wards of Cameley, Chew Magna, Chew Stoke, Clutton, Compton Dando, Farmborough, Harptrees, High Littleton, Paulton, Publow, Stowey Sutton, and Timsbury.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Woodspring wards of Backwell, Clevedon Central, Clevedon East, Clevedon North, Clevedon South, Clevedon Walton, Clevedon West, Easton-in-Gordano, Gordano, Long Ashton, Nailsea East, Nailsea North and West, North Weston, Portishead Central, Portishead Coast, Portishead South, Portishead West, Winford, Wraxall, Wrington, and Yatton.\n\nThe constituency contained the northern and eastern parts of the North Somerset unitary authority (formerly the Woodspring district of the County of Avon, and roughly the same area as the ancient Hundred of Portbury). The constituency extended between two rivers with the Avon running along the north-east edge and the Congresbury Yeo to the south. It included the three main towns of Clevedon on the west coast, Nailsea to the south, and Portishead to the north, along with smaller surrounding villages like Backwell, Easton-in-Gordano, and Long Ashton.\n\nFollowing the review of parliamentary representation by the Boundary Commission for England in North Somerset which took effect at the 2010 general election, this seat was renamed North Somerset.\n\nOn its creation in 1983, Woodspring was won by the Conservative Sir Paul Dean, who had held the old seat of Somerset North since 1964. Sir Paul was a Deputy Speaker of the House to George Thomas and latterly Bernard Weatherill from 1982 to 1992; he served longer than anyone else since the post was created in 1902. On his retirement in 1992 Liam Fox succeeded him, and held the seat until its abolition in 2010; during this time he served as a junior minister in the Major government, and later became an opposition frontbencher during the Blair and Brown governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829675", "title": "Yeovil (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Yeovil (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nYeovil is a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. It has been represented since 2015 by Marcus Fysh, a Conservative.\n\n1918–1974: The Municipal Boroughs of Yeovil and Chard, the Urban Districts of Crewkerne and Ilminster, and the Rural Districts of Chard, Langport, and Yeovil.\n\n1974–1983: As 1918 but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Yeovil wards of Blackdown, Chard North East, Chard North West, Chard Parish, Chard South East, Chard South West, Chinnock, Coker, Crewkerne Town, Dowlish, Egwood, Hazelbury, Houndstone, Ilminster Town, Lynches, Mudford, Neroche, St Michael's, South Petherton, Stoke, Windwhistle, Yeovil Central, Yeovil East, Yeovil North, Yeovil Preston, Yeovil South, and Yeovil West.\n\n1997–2010: The District of South Somerset wards of Blackdown, Chard Avishayes, Chard Combe, Chard Crimchard, Chard Holyrood, Chard Jocelyn, Coker, Crewkerne, Egwood, Hamdon, Houndstone, Ilminster, Mudford, Neroche, Parrett, St Michael's, South Petherton, Tatworth and Forton, Windwhistle, Yeovil Central, Yeovil East, Yeovil Preston, Yeovil South, Yeovil West, and Yeovil Without.\n\n2010–present: The District of South Somerset wards of Blackdown, Brympton, Chard Avishayes, Chard Combe, Chard Crimchard, Chard Holyrood, Chard Jocelyn, Coker, Crewkerne, Egwood, Hamdon, Ilminster, Ivelchester, Neroche, Parrett, St Michael's, South Petherton, Tatworth and Forton, Windwhistle, Yeovil Central, Yeovil East, Yeovil South, Yeovil West, and Yeovil Without.\n\nThe constituency covers the towns of Yeovil, Chard, Crewkerne and Ilminster in Somerset. Until 1983 Somerset was split into four constituencies and Yeovil constituency also contained the towns of Ilchester, Martock and Somerton but they were transferred to the newly created constituency of Somerton and Frome.\n\nAs part of minor changes implemented following the review by the Boundary Commission for England, the town of Ilchester was returned to the Yeovil constituency at the 2010 general election.\n\nFrom 1918 until 1983, Yeovil always returned a Conservative MP (though by only narrow margins over Labour in the 1940s and 1950s). There then followed a period of over 30 years during which the seat was represented by a member of the Liberal Party or their successors, the Liberal Democrats; firstly former leader Paddy Ashdown (1983–2001) and then former Chief Secretary to the Treasury David Laws (2001 to 2015). At the 2015 election, the seat returned to its former Conservative allegiance as Marcus Fysh defeated Laws by over 5,000 votes.\n\nThe South Somerset district voted 57% to leave the European Union, and academic analysis estimates that Yeovil itself voted 59% to leave. There was a swing of 7.7% away from the pro-Remain Liberal Democrats towards the pro-Leave Conservatives, which made the seat much safer in 2017, Marcus Fysh's majority increasing to just under 15,000. In 2019 Fysh further increased his majority over the Liberal Democrat candidate to over 16,000 votes.\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n"}
{"id": "1829677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829677", "title": "Les Humanoïdes Associés", "text": "Les Humanoïdes Associés\n\nLes Humanoïdes Associés (\"Humanoïdes\") is a Franco-American publishing house specializing in comics and graphic novels. Founded in December 1974 by comic artists Mœbius, Jean-Pierre Dionnet, Philippe Druillet, and financial director Bernard Farkas in order to publish \"Métal Hurlant\", it quickly expanded to include a variety of science fiction works, featuring mature themes that were not commonplace in the Franco-Belgian comic world. Considered revolutionary in the comic book form at the time, chiefly due to its focus on the SF genre, the work found in Humanoïdes inspired many generations of authors and filmmakers.\n\nIn December 1974, critic and scriptwriter Jean-Pierre Dionnet, writer-artists Philippe Druillet and Mœbius, along with businessman Bernard Farkas, decided to create \"Les Humanoïdes Associés\" in order to publish a quarterly SF magazine. The first issue of \"Métal Hurlant\" was published in January 1975, with Jean-Pierre Dionnet as editor.\n\nThe magazine mainly published SF and fantasy works, but Dionnet prized diversity and published works by Chantal Montellier as well as those by Philippe Druillet. Dionnet also endeavored to publish foreign authors—the first issue showcased American artist Richard Corben, the second issue featured fellow American Vaughn Bodé, along with Brazilian Sergio Macedo, Swiss Daniel Ceppi, Dutchman Joost Swarte, etc.\n\nAs early as 1975, two graphic novels were published: \"Jason Muller\", by Claude Auclair, and \"Rolf\", by Richard Corben. An increasing number of graphic novels were published in the following years (10 in 1976, 15 in 1977, 17 in 1978, 28 in 1979, 38 in 1980, etc.). The titles were mostly by authors that featured in the magazine, such as Druillet, Mœbius (\"Arzach\" was published in 1976), Jacques Tardi, etc. Nevertheless, Humanoïdes also published other authors, such as Italian Hugo Pratt, as well as American classics \"Conan the Barbarian\", \"Spirit\", \"Nick Fury\", and British classic \"Dan Dare\". Humanoïdes also published a handful of risqué works, such as John Willie's erotic \"Gwendoline\". In 1977, Humanoïdes published their first compendium of images with H. R. Giger's \"Necronomicon\".\n\nHumanoïdes' publishing enabled it to gain a considerable financial grounding, which proved to be useful when confronted with a number of management mishaps (exorbitant loan rates, high production costs, non-payment of dues, etc.). It also led to a number of landmark imprints, such as \"Xanadu\", which featured large-scale American comics (nine volumes between 1983 and 1985), and \"Autodafé\", which published comics in novel form. \"Autodafé\" (six volumes were published in 1982–1983) was the first manga to be distributed in French bookshops.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1978, Humanoïdes published a second magazine, \"\", with a female focus. Its editors (Janic Guillerez, with early input from Anne Delobel) and principal contributors were almost all women. This innovative project, especially given the male-influenced milieu in which it took place, was nevertheless hampered by chronically poor sales and its adult-only material. In May 1977, \"Ciné Fantastic\" was published, but the magazine folded after a single issue. Several years later, Dionnet noticed an increase in the number of titles available in bookshops, and sought to increase the presence of Les Humanoïdes Associés. The magazines \"Métal (hurlant) Aventure\", with a focus on adventure, and \"Rigolo!\", with a humoristic focus, were both launched in 1983, but were only published until 1984 and 1985, respectively.\n\nIn 1977, \"Métal Hurlant\" gained worldwide attention when it was translated into English and distributed in North America and the Commonwealth countries under the name \"Heavy Metal\". \"Heavy Metal\" featured mainly European authors near the beginning of its publication, but increasingly relied on American authors as time went on. Nevertheless, it introduced European comics to the North American market, where artists such as Mœbius began to be noticed. By the end of the 1980s, \"Heavy Metal\" became completely independent from Les Humanoïdes Associés. As of 2020, it is still being published.\n\nThis mix of financial successes and failures led to a difficult situation for the publishing house. In April 1980, the company's ownership was divided between a Spanish printing company (a major creditor) and a number of private shareholders, principally people who had been associated with the beginnings of the company (such as Druillet, Mœbius, Margerin, and Gillon).\n\nIn 1988, the publishing house and its catalogue (including \"Métal Hurlant\") were purchased by 23-year old Swiss publisher/producer Fabrice Giger, who turned it into an intellectual property development company. In less than two decades, the company developed one of the most respected graphic novel/comic book catalogues in the world, featuring authors such as Moebius, Alexandro Jodorowsky, Enki Bilal, Milo Manara, and Juan Gimenez, and books from multiple genres, all intended for mature readers. The success led Giger to abandon his own original publishing house (founded in 1988 for traditional comics publications aimed at a younger public ) in 1994 after unsuccessful efforts to integrate its disparate catalogue into that of Humanoïdes, instead focussing all his energy on Humanoïdes.\n\nA number of additional crises (including an averted 1993-1995 hostile takeover attempt by Parisian publisher Hachette, considered by Giger as Humanoïdes' darkest hour), led Humanoïdes to be put into administration, which it exited after 18 months in late 2009. Since then, the company has enjoyed renewed success with a number of new series, such as \"Crusades\", \"La Légende des nuées écarlates\", \"Les Épées de verre\", \"Carthago\", and \"Le Manoir des murmures\".\n\nHumanoïdes have also tried their hand at European manga, such as \"Omega\" and \"B.B. Project\". These titles were published in the traditional manga format, but Humanoïdes has also experimented with manga-type publications in a more European style. The \"Ecube\" series is an example of this mixed genre, written by Iovinelli and illustrated by Dall Oglio. \"Crusades\", another example of this blended style, has European authors but a Chinese illustrator.\n\nHumanoids Publishing, Inc. (\"Humanoids\") was founded in the United States in 1999 by Giger, eleven years after his acquisition of the French parent company, with the aim to publish French cult classics as well as recruit American talent. A number of successful French works were published, including \"Bouncer\", \"Metabarons\", \"Technopriests\", \"The White Lama\", \"The Incal\", and others. In 2002, Humanoids began publishing an English-language version of the new \"Métal Hurlant\" (not to be confused with the then still running \"Heavy Metal\" magazine), which would only last two years.\n\nIn January 2004, Humanoids signed an agreement with DC Comics aimed at integrating the Humanoids publications into the DC Comics catalog. This agreement enabled Humanoids to gain greater visibility on the market, while DC Comics obtained the distribution rights for the English-language versions of Humanoids' works. Certain works published since 1998 were reprinted, while new titles were also translated into English (\"El Niño\", \"Megalex\", \"Basil and Victoria\", etc.). However, the books were expensive and success was limited, leading DC Comics to announce the end of the agreement in April 2005.\n\nIn 2007, an agreement was signed with Image Comics to publish \"Lucha Libre\" in North America. In July 2008, Humanoids began a partnership with Devil's Due to publish new translations of French works. These graphic novels were published in the classic American comic book format in order to not put off American readers. New works were translated, such as \"The Zombies That Ate The World\" and \"I Am Legion\".\n\nIn 2010, Humanoids cancelled the agreement with Devil's Due and began publishing their own translated works in North America. Following its standard practice, the company chose to publish old translations as well as new European and American works. The post-2010 Humanoids editions are also released on the UK market, with the exception of a few early releases which were licensed to local publishers, such as Titan Books.\n\nThe publisher's official website states that \"[s]ince 1998 Humanoids has been the only publishing house of European origin with a direct presence in the U.S., and since 2014 the only non-Japanese company publishing its graphic novels directly in Japan, under the brand ユマノイド (\"Humanoido\")\". Reminiscent of the agreement Humanoids had made with DC Comics, recent Japanese-language books are co-released with Japanese publishing house PIE Books International.\n\nIn 2013, Giger decided to relocate the headquarters of his publishing house from Paris to Los Angeles, which reversed the hitherto existing situation by Paris now becoming a scaled-down subsidiary of the American parent company. As stated on the company's official website, the move reflected Giger's ambitions to restructure the company into a \"major audiovisual\" company, by making \"deals with various international and Los Angeles-based partners\", which led to the creation of the Humanoids Production Division in 2015.\n\nThe 1990s saw the widescale development of IT technology being made accessible to the larger public, as well as the arrival of the Internet in the homes of individual users. Humanoïdes began investigating the feasibility of digitizing its collection. However, screen resolutions and bandwidth were too low to permit satisfactory usage. The CD-ROM format was then chosen, with Enki Bilal's \"The Nikopol Trilogy\" and Manara's \"Gulliveriana\" being published as part of the \"Digital Comics\" collection. Sales were disappointing, however, and comic book publishers returned the traditional paper format.\n\nBy the late 2000s, smartphones were proliferating, which presented Humanoïdes with an opportunity to make new inroads into the digitization of comics. The new media, dubbed \"VideoComics\", enabled smartphone users to experience comics with added soundtracks, videos, and even voice actors. A number of IT and web companies expressed interest in this new form of comics distribution, and Humanoïdes gave two of them the rights to digitally distribute their works.\n\nThe latest development in digital distribution of comics has been the widespread use of tablet computers. This technology led Humanoïdes to systematically digitize the entire contents of their catalogue, in order to provide its comic books on its website. New publications are often available online even before being released in bookshops, thanks to online streaming.\n\nBy 2015, the publisher had completed the digitizing of its entire catalogue.\n\n\n\nFirst created by Jodorowsky and Mœbius specifically for the first \"Incal\" graphic novel, the universe was gradually develop in a number of series, such as \"Metabarons\", \"Megalex\", or \"Technopriests\".\n\nThe universe has developed to such a degree that the publishers have created a specific blog dedicated to linking the various storylines together. The Incal world currently has 35 published volumes, and Les Humanoïdes continues its development in the \"Castaka\" and \"Final Incal\".\n\nJerry Frissen's creation, \"Lucha Libre\" is the second important world published by Les Humanoïdes Associés. The series showcases retired, failed Mexican catchers in their urban peregrinations. First published in France in small volumes labelled \"anthologies\", they were later re-published in a more traditional, hardcover form.\n\n\"Sanctum\" began with a first volume published in 2001, with Xavier Dorison as writer and Christophe Bec as illustrator. It has since become prominent in the Humanoids collection. In 2007, the series was re-imagined as \"Sanctum Redux\" by writers Stephane Betbeder and Riccardo Crosa, using the same storyline as the original but with manga-style illustrations. \"Sanctum\" differs from \"The Incal\", \"Lucha Libre\", and \"Carthago\" in that rather than narrating different stories taking place within the same universe, it retells the same story in different manners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829678", "title": "Chingford and Woodford Green (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Chingford and Woodford Green (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nChingford and Woodford Green is a constituency in North East London represented by Sir Iain Duncan Smith of the Conservative Party since its creation in 1997.\n\nThe London Borough of Waltham Forest wards of Chingford Green, Endlebury, Hale End and Highams Park, Hatch Lane, Larkswood, and Valley, and the London Borough of Redbridge wards of Church End and Monkhams have been selected to form the seat since inception.\n\nOut of 24 council seats that make up Chingford and Woodford Green the Conservatives hold 18 and Labour hold 5.\n\nThe boundaries of Chingford and Woodford Green take in a large slice of the London Borough of Waltham Forest. The constituency includes Chingford in the north bordering Enfield down through Highams Park and Hatch Lane into Woodford, and also takes in a part of the London Borough of Redbridge.\n\nBefore 1945, both Woodford and Chingford were part of Epping for general elections, for which wartime Conservative Prime Minister Winston Churchill was MP. The constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the former seats of Chingford and Wanstead & Woodford. Both seats previously had well-known MPs, Norman Tebbit and Winston Churchill respectively. Iain Duncan Smith had been MP for Chingford since 1992, then was elected MP for this constituency five years later in 1997.\n\nChingford and Woodford Green and its predecessors have been solid Conservative wards since the beginning of the Thatcher period in 1979. The closest contest in the 20th century was from the Labour at the 1997 general election, with a Conservative majority of over 5000; the Conservatives retained the seat in 2001 with a majority little changed on a low turnout. In 2005, the Conservative incumbent did better, getting twice as many votes as Labour with a swing to the party of 6.4% (over double that nationally) from Labour. The 2015 result gave the seat the 119th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority. At the 2017 snap election, Duncan Smith was re-elected with a greatly reduced majority on a 7% swing to Labour, slightly more than a sixth of his 2010 margin; while this was in keeping with the large swings to Labour throughout Greater London at that election, it seems to suggest an increasingly marginal seat, even though the Conservatives hold three-quarters of the local council seats in the wards which make up the constituency. The 2019 general election saw the Conservatives retaining the seat, although with a smaller majority than 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829679", "title": "Edmonton (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Edmonton (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEdmonton is a constituency in Greater London, created in 1918 and represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Kate Osamor of the Labour Co-operative party. Edmonton is a North London constituency based around district of Edmonton in the London Borough of Enfield.\n\nThe seat dates back to 1918 at which time it was at an extremity of the largely urbanised London postal district outside of the County of London (1889–1965) with a railway commuter town core outweighed by businesses beside the River Lea engaged in manufacturing, storage, distribution and construction industries among others. Population and housing were significantly less before the middle of the 19th century which saw a large population rise and housing increase.\n\nThe seat was won by successive Labour party candidates since 1935 until narrowly gained by a Conservative in their major win in the 1983 general election. The latter's majority increased in 1987 then reduced to a marginal majority in 1992. After 1997 a trend of increased Labour majorities developed – Osamor's majority of 2015, 37.3%, makes it the 43rd-safest Labour seat in ranking. Likewise, with the exception of a Conservative-leaning ward, Bush Hill Park, Edmonton's other wards usually elect Labour Party councillors since 1997.\n\nIan Twinn became the first Conservative to win the seat (1983) in 48 years. He also became the first Conservative MP in Edmonton to be re-elected for a second term in 1987 and also for a third term in 1992.\n\n1918–1950: The Urban District of Edmonton.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Edmonton.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Angel Road, Bush Hill South, Church Street, Craig Park, Jubilee, New Park, Pymmes, St Alphege, St Peter's, and Silver Street.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Angel Road, Craig Park, Huxley, Jubilee, Latymer, Raglan, St Alphege, St Mark's, St Peter's, Village, and Weir Hall.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Bush Hill Park, Edmonton Green, Haselbury, Jubilee, Lower Edmonton, Ponders End, and Upper Edmonton.\n\nFollowing its review of parliamentary representation in North London, the Boundary Commission for England made some changes to Edmonton. Ponders End ward was transferred from the constituency of Enfield North to Edmonton. Part of Southbury ward was transferred to Enfield North. Parts of Grange ward, Palmers Green ward, and Bowes ward were transferred from Edmonton to Enfield, Southgate. Part of Bush Hill Park ward and a tiny part of Upper Edmonton ward were transferred from Enfield, Southgate to Edmonton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829680", "title": "Enfield North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Enfield North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEnfield North is a peripheral Greater London constituency created in 1974 and represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Feryal Clark of the Labour Party.\n\nThe northernmost seat in Greater London, Enfield North is deeply suburban, almost village-like in parts: particularly its rolling terrain including Gordon Hill and Carterhatch. Green belt legislation has kept housing development at bay, and the area has much in common with the adjoining county of Hertfordshire. The tree-lined avenues of Enfield Chase are also quiet and affluent. However, much of the eastern part of the constituency is in the Lea Valley industrial area and includes some small areas with significant levels of multiple deprivation.\n\nThe seat was created for the February 1974 election from the former seats of Enfield West and Enfield East. The former was a safe Conservative seat, at one point represented by Iain Macleod, whereas the latter was a secure Labour seat.\n\nFrom its creation up until 2015, Enfield North was somewhat a bellwether of the national result; it elected Labour MPs at both the 1974 elections, was taken by the Conservatives and held by comfortable margins in every election from 1979 to 1992, before being won back by Labour in 1997 (albeit with relatively narrow majorities throughout the party's time in government) and narrowly going to the Conservatives in 2010 in an election which nationally saw a hung Parliament. In 2015, however, the Conservatives lost the seat to Labour in an election which nationally saw them win an overall majority.\n\nBoundary alterations based on an increased population within the existing area made the seat notionally Conservative before the 6 May 2010 election, and Nick de Bois won the seat. However, the former Labour MP Joan Ryan, who sat for the constituency from 1997 to 2010, regained it in 2015. The 2015 result gave the seat the 13th most marginal majority of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority. De Bois and Ryan stood against each other in this seat over five general elections, between 2001 and 2017, with Ryan winning four of those five.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Bullsmoor, Bush Hill, Cambridge Road, Chase, Enfield Wash, Green Street, Ordnance, Ponders End, Town, and Willow.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Bullsmoor, Chase, Enfield Lock, Enfield Wash, Green Street, Hoe Lane, Ponders End, Southbury, Town, Willow, and Worcesters.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Chase, Enfield Highway, Enfield Lock, Highlands, Southbury, Town, and Turkey Street.\n\nThe constituency is set in the northern third of the London Borough of Enfield, stretching from Enfield Chase in the west, and the King George V Reservoir in the east, incorporating Brimsdown, Enfield Lock, and the M25 motorway interchange at the boundary with the borough of Broxbourne to the north.\n\nFollowing its review of parliamentary representation in North London, the Boundary Commission for England made boundary changes to Enfield North for the 2010 general election. Part of Highlands ward was transferred to Enfield North from the constituency of Enfield, Southgate. Part of Grange ward was transferred to Enfield, Southgate. Ponders End ward was transferred to Edmonton, and part of Southbury ward was transferred from Edmonton to Enfield North.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829681", "title": "George Williams", "text": "George Williams\n\nGeorge Williams may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829682", "title": "Enfield Southgate (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Enfield Southgate (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEnfield Southgate is a constituency in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. It was created in 1950, and has been represented since 2017 by Bambos Charalambous, a member of the Labour Party. \n\nFrom 1950 to the 1983 general election, this constituency was known as Southgate. The prefix of the seat's London Borough was added in 1974.\n\nThe seat gained national attention in the 1997 general election when Michael Portillo, Secretary of State for Defence was unexpectedly defeated on a massive swing - the 'Portillo moment'. Portillo had been widely expected to contest the Conservative leadership and his defeat the media took to epitomise the Labour landslide victory. The victorious candidate, Stephen Twigg, increased his majority at the following election. In the 2005 general election, Twigg's majority was the largest overturned, with a swing of 8.7% to the Conservative candidate David Burrowes.\n\nThe 2015 result gave the seat the 60th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority, with Labour gaining the seat in the 2017 general election on a substantial 9.7% swing. \nEnfield Southgate is one of five constituencies, the others being Croydon Central, Leeds North West, Peterborough and Reading East, which elected Labour MPs in 2017 having not done so since 2001. Bambos Charalambous in 2019 became the first Labour MP in Enfield Southgate to be re-elected with a reduced share of the vote.\n\nThe constituency is in the west of the London Borough of Enfield and generally more affluent than other parts of the borough. It is more cosmopolitan than many other London suburban constituencies which are or have been Conservative-held, including sizeable Jewish, Muslim and Cypriot communities.\n\nIn recent years, the south-eastern and southern wards of the constituency including Bowes and Palmers Green always return Labour local councillors, with some councillors also in Southgate Green and Winchmore Hill. These wards tend to give the bulk of the Labour vote. However, the remaining wards generally elect Conservative councillors.\n\nTo the north, the seat becomes semi-rural as it takes in Trent Park and the former campus of Middlesex University, and the Cockfosters terminus of the Piccadilly line, stretching into the wealthy Hadley Wood area. Some areas (smaller than local government wards) in the south of the constituency have middle rankings of deprivation when placed in a complete list of wards (such as the 2000 Index of Multiple Deprivation), however all other output areas lack any significant deprivation.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Borough of Southgate.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Arnos, Bowes, Cockfosters, Grange, Highfield, Oakwood, Palmers Green, Southgate Green, West, and Winchmore Hill.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Arnos, Bowes, Grange, Grovelands, Highfield, Merryhills, Oakwood, Palmers Green, Southgate Green, Trent, and Winchmore Hill.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Enfield wards of Bowes, Cockfosters, Grange, Palmers Green, Southgate, Southgate Green, and Winchmore Hill.\n\nFollowing its review of parliamentary representation in North London, the Boundary Commission for England made some changes to Enfield, Southgate. Part of Highlands ward was transferred to the constituency of Enfield North, and part of Grange ward was transferred from Enfield North to Enfield, Southgate. Parts of Grange ward, Bowes ward and Palmers Green ward were transferred to Enfield, Southgate from Edmonton. Part of Bush Hill Park ward and a tiny part of Upper Edmonton ward were transferred to Edmonton.\n\nIn the first draft proposal of the Review, the Constituency would be broken up, with Cockfosters Ward joining an enlarged Chipping Barnet, Grange Ward joining Enfield North (renamed to Enfield), Palmers Green returning to Edmonton, and the remainder joining parts of Finchley in a new Southgate and Finchley Constituency.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829683", "title": "Hackney North and Stoke Newington (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hackney North and Stoke Newington (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHackney North and Stoke Newington is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom since 1987 by Diane Abbott of the Labour Party, who served as Shadow Home Secretary from 6 October 2016 to 4 April 2020. Abbott was one of the first three Black British MPs elected, and the first female Black British MP in the UK.\n\nThe constituency has always elected Labour MPs since its creation in 1950. While well connected to Central London, including the City of London, the seat generally has moderate incomes rather than high, and a narrow majority of wards had a relatively high ranking when placed in the Index of Multiple Deprivation, compiled in 2000. In line with most of Greater London since 2000 many parts, especially Stamford Hill, Upper Clapton, Lower Clapton have become marginal in terms of local councillors and these districts, with to a lesser extent the eponymous Hackney and Stoke Newington, are in the process of becoming re-gentrified with ongoing increases in land value, proximity to the London 2012 venues and a council that successfully reduced the level of crime by about 30% within a four-year period. Demographically, almost 60% of households are singletons and households have a higher than average level of unemployment.\n\nThrough all these changes, under incumbent Diane Abbott, the seat has become a safe seat for Labour. Prior to her promotion to the Shadow Cabinet, Abbott for many years was Labour's regular commentator opposite Michael Portillo on the light-hearted political round-up series \"This Week\", and continued to appear on the show periodically until its cancellation in 2019. On 23 February 2020, Abbott announced she would be returning to the backbenches upon the election of the new Labour leader on 4 April that year.\n\nThe seat was created in 1950 and has gone through many changes: in January 2006 the boundary moved again, this time to correspond with the local government ward boundaries.\n\nFollowing major electoral reform at the Redistribution of Seats Act, 1885, part of the Third Reform Act, the seat of Hackney was divided into two and Hackney North was formed, this time to return only one Member of Parliament, commencing with the 1885 general election.\n\nThe Stoke Newington constituency was created at the 1918 general election by the division of the Hackney North constituency by the Representation of the People Act, 1918, known generally as Fourth Reform Act; an Act most importantly remembered for the first time extending suffrage to women. The constituency was identical in area to the Metropolitan Borough of Stoke Newington.\n\nFollowing a decrease in the population the two constituencies were merged by the Representation of the People Act, 1948, retaining David Weitzman as MP and becoming the current constituency in the 1950 general election.\n\n\nThe seat's narrowest majority of 18.3% was in 1979 and its greatest, 62.4%, was in 2017. The 2015 result made the seat the 18th safest of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority and seventh safest in London.\n\nIn the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, the constituency voted remain by 79.1%. This was the third highest support for remain for a constituency.\n\n1950–1955: The Metropolitan Borough of Hackney wards of Leaside, Maury, Southwold, Springfield, and Stamford, and the Metropolitan Borough of Stoke Newington.\n\n1955–1974: The Metropolitan Borough of Hackney wards of Northfield, Northwold, Rectory, and Springfield, and the Metropolitan Borough of Stoke Newington.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Hackney wards of Brownswood, Clissold, Defoe, New River, Northfield, Northwold, and Springfield.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Hackney wards of Brownswood, Clissold, Eastdown, Leabridge, New River, North Defoe, Northfield, Northwold, Rectory, South Defoe, and Springfield.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Hackney wards of Brownswood, Cazenove, Clissold, Dalston, Hackney Downs, Leabridge, Lordship, New River, Springfield, and Stoke Newington Central.\n\nThe constituency covers the northern part of the London Borough of Hackney.\n\nThe seat is bordered by the constituencies of Hackney South and Shoreditch, Islington North, Tottenham, and Walthamstow.\n\nhttps://www.bbc.co.uk/news/politics/constituencies/E14000720\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829685", "title": "Hackney South and Shoreditch (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hackney South and Shoreditch (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHackney South and Shoreditch is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Meg Hillier of the Labour Party and of the Co-operative Party.\n\nThe seat was created in February 1974 from the former seat of Shoreditch and Finsbury.\n\nRonald Brown was elected in 1974 as a representative of the Labour Party but defected from the Opposition to join the fledgling Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1981, at a time when Labour wished for Common Market withdrawal and the removal of keeping a nuclear deterrent during the Cold War. Brown held the seat as an SDP member until 1983, when he was defeated by Labour Party candidate Brian Sedgemore. Sedgemore announced his retirement from parliament at the 2005 election; but on 26 April 2005, after Parliament had been dissolved and he was no longer the sitting MP, defected to the Liberal Democrats, the successors to the SDP, shortly before the week of the election. The Liberal Democrats were unable to capitalise on the defection, their candidate only gaining the second largest gain in votes of the candidates competing.\n\nIn the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, the constituency voted remain by 77.9%. This was the ninth highest support for remain for a constituency. \nAll elections since the seat's creation have been won by the Labour candidate, including the incumbent, Meg Hillier, with substantial majorities, making it a Labour stronghold. The 2015 result ranked the seat the 16th safest of the party's 232 seats (by majority percentage) and fifth safest in the capital.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Hackney wards of Dalston, De Beauvoir, Haggerston, Moorfields, Queensbridge, Victoria, and Wenlock.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Hackney wards of Chatham, Dalston, De Beauvoir, Haggerston, Homerton, King's Park, Moorfields, Queensbridge, Victoria, Wenlock, Westdown, and Wick.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Hackney wards of Chatham, De Beauvoir, Hackney Central, Haggerston, Hoxton, King's Park, Queensbridge, Victoria, and Wick.\n\nThe constituency covers the southern part of the London Borough of Hackney.\n\nThe constituency shares a boundary with eight others:\nWalthamstow, Leyton & Wanstead, West Ham, Bethnal Green & Bow, Cities of London and Westminster, Islington South & Finsbury, Islington North, and its borough partner Hackney North & Stoke Newington.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829687", "title": "Tottenham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tottenham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTottenham () is a constituency created in 1950 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2000 by Rt Hon David Lammy, a member of the Labour Party. It previously existed from 1885 to 1918.\n\n1885–1918: The parish of Tottenham, and the area [small exclaves] included in the Parliamentary Boroughs of Bethnal Green, Hackney, Shoreditch, and Tower Hamlets.\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Tottenham wards of Bruce Grove and Stoneleigh, Chestnuts, Green Lanes, Stamford Hill, Town Hall, and West Green.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Haringey wards of Bruce Grove, Green Lanes, High Cross, Seven Sisters, South Tottenham, Tottenham Central, and West Green.\n\n1983–2010: As above plus Coleraine, Harringay, Park, and White Hart Lane.\n\n2010–present: Bruce Grove, Harringay, Northumberland Park, St Ann's, Seven Sisters, Tottenham Green, Tottenham Hale, West Green, White Hart Lane.\n\nFrom 2018 (proposed): As above plus Stroud Green.\n\nThe constituency is in the London Borough of Haringey in north London, covering the borough's central and eastern area.\n\nThe seat sided with the Conservative party candidate until the January-to-February-held 1906 election, a party noted for the gradual social reforms of Benjamin Disraeli in the early 1880s, particularly in education and urban deprivation. By the time of the 1906 United Kingdom general election the Liberal Party was at its final apex and stood on the moral high ground on issues of free trade and abhorrences in the Boer War which turned the seat in the \"Liberal landslide\" result of that year to the party's candidate. The two elections in 1910 (before a near eight-year long hiatus in elections due to World War I) were one-member parliamentary majority results nationally between the two then-dominant parties but the Liberal Party's People's Budget proposed at the first 1910 election saw Liberal incumbent Alden narrowly returned to serve Tottenham and again at the end of the year.\n\nThis constituency was recreated to cover a narrower, more focussed seat on the largest town or London District itself, of Tottenham. Parts of two wards were in the former Borough of Hornsey which had a seat, abolished in 1983 to make way for Hornsey and Wood Green.\n\nDuring its modern period of existence, Tottenham has been won consistently by the Labour Party; however, one member in the early 1960s, Alan Brown, defected to become independent in opposition and then, crossing the floor, became a Conservative. Brown failed by a wide margin to win re-election in 1964. The closest result since 1950 was in 1987 when the Labour Party candidate Bernie Grant retained the seat by 8.2% of the vote ahead of the Conservatives. The first by-election to Tottenham occurred in 2000 due to Grant's death, which saw Labour, with new candidate David Lammy, retain the seat with a reduced majority. \n\nIn 2005 and 2010 – reflecting a national swing – the runner-up was a Liberal Democrat candidate.\n\nThe re-election of Lammy in 2015 made the seat the twelfth-safest of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority; and third-safest in London. In 2017, Lammy was re-elected with 81.6% of the vote and a 70.1% majority, making Tottenham the safest seat for any party in Greater London.\n\nAt the 2016 EU referendum on continuing British membership of the European Union, 76.2% of the constituency voted to remain.\n\nRt Hon David Lammy, the present member, was Minister of State for Innovation, Universities and Skills until the 2010 general election removed Labour from government after thirteen years.\n\nA cosmopolitan, inner-city seat in the London Borough of Haringey, Tottenham has a large ethnic minority population – around a fifth of the residents are black, and there is a large Muslim population. Excluding the south of the constituency, the percentage of white residents understates the ethnic variety of this constituency, similar to the borough as a whole which includes major Cypriot, Irish, Eastern European, Jewish and Russian communities. The seat includes the two Haringey metropolitan centres of Harringay and Tottenham. London football club Tottenham Hotspur F.C. is also based in the constituency.\n\nThe seat includes the district of Tottenham. The constituency also includes the Broadwater Farm estate which was notorious for the 1985 riots, following which the estate underwent a massive facelift and is no longer a crime blackspot, and Northumberland Park which is blighted by social problems, including overcrowding.\n\nIn the east of the area is the River Lea with its valley trail and the Tottenham marshes, while to the south the seat takes in Finsbury Park in Harringay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829688", "title": "Walthamstow (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Walthamstow (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWalthamstow (Contemp. and Cons. RP) /wɔːlθm̩stəʊ/, (Est. Eng.) /woːwfm̩stɐʏ/ is a constituency created in 1974 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Stella Creasy, a member of the Labour Co-op party. An earlier version of the constituency existed covering a significantly different area (1885—1918) and was among the vast majority by that time returning one member to the House of Commons.\n\nThe South-Western or Walthamstow Division of the parliamentary county of Essex was created by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, when the existing seat of South Essex was divided into three single-member constituencies.\n\nThe constituency consisted of the three civil parishes of Leyton, Wanstead and Walthamstow. The area lay on the periphery of the London conurbation and became increasingly suburban over its existence.\n\nThe seat was abolished under the Representation of the People Act 1918. Two new constituencies were created with Walthamstow Urban District divided between Walthamstow East and Walthamstow West.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Waltham Forest wards of Higham Hill, High Street, Hoe Street, St James Street, and Wood Street.\n\n1983–1997: As above plus Lloyd Park.\n\n1997–2010: As above plus Chapel End and Lea Bridge.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Waltham Forest wards of Chapel End, Higham Hill, High Street, Hoe Street, Lea Bridge, Markhouse, William Morris, and Wood Street.\n\nThe seat has been represented by the Labour Party since 1992, before which it was won on a marginal majority in 1987 by a Conservative, having until then (since its 1974 recreation as a seat) been served by one Labour MP, Eric Deakins.\n\nIn 2015, Creasy's re-election saw Walthamstow become Labours' second-safest London seat, and tenth-safest nationally.\n\nStella Creasy, the present member, was the Shadow Minister for Crime Prevention.\n\nThe seat is the part of Outer London closest to Stratford, with its international rail connections, major city shopping centre and London's Olympic Park. To the East the seat borders Walthamstow Forest and Gilbert's Slade, thin sections of Epping Forest, and to the West, the Lea Valley. The eponymous district had as its open space feature a greyhound racing track, which has been redeveloped into a modernist housing and green space scheme. Workless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly higher than the national average of 3.8% and Greater London average of 4%, at 7.2% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\nNotes \nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "1829689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829689", "title": "Brent North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Brent North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBrent North is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament.\n\nCreated in 1974 from the former seats of Wembley North and Wembley South, Brent North was a Conservative seat until 1997, held by Lancastrian former headmaster Rhodes Boyson with initially two fairly small 14% margins before the Conservative-dominated period beginning in 1979 which gave Boyson larger majorities until Labour won the seat in 1997. At the general elections of 1997 and 2001, Brent North produced the highest swing to Labour nationally. The winning candidate in 1997 was Glasgow-born Barry Gardiner, the youngest mayor of Cambridge in its history and former academic, who has held the seat ever since. The Liberal Democrats and their two predecessor parties (Liberal and SDP) amassed their largest share of the vote in 1974. Labour's percentage majority almost halved at the 2005 general election from 30.1% to 15.8% and fell slightly to 15.4% in 2010, faced with a new Conservative challenger, Harshadbhai Patel. The Labour Party vote increased in both the 2015 and 2017 general elections and then dramatically decreased to a 15.8% margin in 2019.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Brent wards of Fryent, Kenton, Kingsbury, Preston, Queensbury, Roe Green, Sudbury, Sudbury Court, Tokyngton, Town Hall, and Wembley Park.\n\n1983–1997: The London Borough of Brent wards of Barnhill, Fryent, Kenton, Kingsbury, Preston, Queensbury, Roe Green, St Andrew's, Sudbury, and Sudbury Court.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Brent wards of Barnhill, Fryent, Kenton, Kingsbury, Preston, Queensbury, Roe Green, Sudbury, and Sudbury Court.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Brent wards of Alperton, Barnhill, Fryent, Kenton, Northwick Park, Preston, Queensbury, Sudbury, and Wembley Central.\n\nMost of the remaining wards in the London Borough of Brent are in the Brent Central constituency, with the exception of the wards of Brondesbury Park, Kilburn and Queens Park, which form part of the Hampstead and Kilburn seat.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829691", "title": "Brent South (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Brent South (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBrent South was a constituency for the House of Commons of the UK Parliament; the areas of the constituency chiefly fell into the new Brent Central for the 2010 general election which was the date of its abolition. It elected one member (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nFrom its creation in 1974, the constituency consistently elected Labour MPs with large majorities. At the 2010 general election, Brent South was abolished and split between neighbouring Brent North and two newly created constituencies: Brent Central and Hampstead and Kilburn.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Brent wards of Alperton, Barham, Chamberlayne, Harlesden, Kensal Rise, Manor, Roundwood, St Raphael's, Stonebridge, and Wembley Central.\n\n1983–1997: \"As above\" less Chamberlayne ward, plus Tokyngton ward\n\n1997–2010: \"As above\" plus St Andrews ward\n"}
{"id": "1829693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829693", "title": "Finchley and Golders Green (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Finchley and Golders Green (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nFinchley and Golders Green is a constituency created in 1997 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. The current MP is Mike Freer of the Conservative Party, who has held the seat since 2010.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Barnet wards of Childs Hill, East Finchley, Finchley, Garden Suburb, Golders Green, St Paul's, and Woodhouse.\n\n2010–present: As above; less St Paul's, plus West Finchley and replacing Finchley with Finchley Church End.\n\nThe constituency covers Finchley, Golders Green, Childs Hill and Hampstead Garden Suburb in the London Borough of Barnet. It was created in 1997 largely replacing the abolished constituency of Finchley—plus major parts of abolished Hendon South, less some of its wards transferred to the Chipping Barnet seat which covers Barnet. Specifically the creation saw the removal of Friern Barnet and the addition of Golders Green, Childs Hill and Hampstead Garden Suburb.\n\nUnder a review of parliamentary representation, and as a consequence of changes to ward boundaries, the Boundary Commission for England recommended in a boundary report published in 2007 that:\n\nThese changes took effect at the 2010 general election.\n\nThe majority of the constituency's territory was previously in the former Finchley seat, created in 1918, and was most famously represented by former Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher between 1959–1992; although boundary changes meant that she never again attained her large majority of 1959, and was re-elected by a 10-point margin in 1974, she was nonetheless returned by majorities of 8,000 and 9,000 votes or 20-point margins at the three general elections throughout her premiership. Since the nominal result at the 1992 general election, and officially from its creation, the seat has been a national bellwether.\n\nThe 2015 general election result gave the seat the 65th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nThe area is relatively hilly for Greater London and has numerous London Underground stations. Finchley and Golders Green was overwhelmingly built on in the first half of the 20th century when it was at the fringe of London. The area has since the coming of the railways had little industry of its own, its local economy tending towards high street retail and tradespeople and instead, the workforce has a high proportion of central London commuters.\n\nIn common with much of the London Borough of Barnet, the local housing stock is larger than the London average; most houses have gardens greatly exceeding their footprint and there are many older subdivided townhouses. The proportion of social housing and ex-council housing is lower than the London average and is in varying condition, unlike many urban hubs in the capital which have seen greater redevelopment of neglected housing stock. It is a mostly affluent and middle-class constituency, but has historically strong Labour Party support in areas of East and West Finchley. Over 20% of residents are Jewish.\n\nAccording to Rallings and Thrasher, the boundary changes which came into force for the general election of 2010 meant that this seat notionally already had a Conservative majority, albeit a very small one.\n\n\nNotes \n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "1829694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829694", "title": "Hammersmith and Fulham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hammersmith and Fulham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHammersmith and Fulham was a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. The constituency was abolished at the 2010 general election with its wards being split between two new constituencies of Chelsea and Fulham & Hammersmith.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the former seats of Hammersmith & Fulham. It covered the central and southern portions of the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham, including the town centres of both Hammersmith and Fulham, but also included smaller districts such as West Kensington, Brook Green, Barons Court, and Sands End.\n\nThe constituency was made up of the electoral wards of:\n\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in North London, the Boundary Commission for England's boundary changes which took effect at the 2010 general election erased the Hammersmith and Fulham constituency.\n\nTwo new constituencies of Chelsea and Fulham & Hammersmith took Hammersmith and Fulham's electoral wards. The Chelsea and Fulham seat is a cross-border creation.\n\nThis highly marginal constituency was represented by only two MPs during its 13-year existence. Iain Coleman won the seat for the Labour Party on its creation in 1997. He narrowly held the seat in 2001, but did not seek a third term as its MP in 2005 due to ill health. On that occasion Greg Hands gained the seat for the Conservative Party, and held it until its abolition in 2010 when he was elected for the new seat of Chelsea and Fulham.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829696", "title": "Harrow East (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Harrow East (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHarrow East is a constituency in the London Borough of Harrow created in 1945 represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Bob Blackman, a Conservative.\n\nThe seat was created in 1945 and has been varied due to two sets of major ward reconfigurations and by other national boundary reforms. The predecessor seats were Hendon and to a much lesser extent Harrow. The censuses of 2001 and 2011 show the overwhelmingly most common housing types of the seat to be semi-detached houses, almost a majority, followed by mid-rise apartments whether purpose-built or converted from older houses, then terraced and then detached houses, and consistently lower-than-average proportions of social housing for Greater London. The seat is served by three separate commuter lines running into Central London and has many parks and sports grounds. Few arterial roads bisect Harrow East — further east is the start of the M1 motorway and in the middle of seats further south in north-west London are the A40 Western Avenue and North Circular Road, omitting the boundaries drawn from the arterial road-building projects of the 1940s to 1970s.\n\n\nTo date since 1945 a stronger area for the Labour Party than neighbouring Harrow West, the seat has been mostly Conservative in outcome. Labour did win here in landslide victories in 1945, 1966 and 1997, and held on in the two subsequent general elections. In 2010 the seat was regained by a Conservative on a high turnout, though Labour's incumbent managed to hold on to Harrow West, largely due to boundary changes which favoured Labour there. Residents in the borough include fewer people in the category of \"no qualifications\" than the national average, in 2011, at 16.8%.\n\nThe seat has been a bellwether since the 1979 general election (inclusive), by reflecting the result nationally. The 2017 result gave the seat the 29th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 317 seats by percentage of majority.\n\n1945–1950: The Urban District of Harrow wards of Kenton, Stanmore North, Stanmore South, Wealdstone North, Wealdstone South, and part of Harrow Weald ward.\n\n1950–1955: As above but the whole of Harrow Weald and less Wealdstone North and Wealdstone South\n\n1955–1974: The Municipal Borough of Harrow wards of Belmont, Harrow Weald, Queensbury, Stanmore North, and Stanmore South.\n\n1974–1978: The London Borough of Harrow wards of Belmont, Harrow Weald, Queensbury, Stanmore North, and Stanmore South.\n\n1978–1983: The London Borough of Harrow wards of Canons, Centenary, Harrow Weald, Kenton East, Stanmore Park, Stanmore South, and Wemborough.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Harrow wards of Canons, Centenary, Greenhill, Harrow Weald, Kenton East, Kenton West, Marlborough, Stanmore Park, Stanmore South, Wealdstone, and Wemborough.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Harrow wards of Belmont, Canons, Harrow Weald, Kenton East, Kenton West, Queensbury, Stanmore Park, and Wealdstone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829698", "title": "Harrow West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Harrow West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHarrow West is a constituency which was created in 1945 and is represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. Until 1997, it only returned Conservative MPs; since then, it has elected the Labour Co-operative MP Gareth Thomas on a fluctuating majority. Since 2010, this has been bolstered by the loss of Pinner from the seat and the gain of a favourable ward for Labour from Harrow East.\n\nThe Labour Party have held the seat since 1997, with the Conservative Party second-placed in each election. The 2015 result made the seat the 215th safest of the party's 232 seats (by majority percentage), and thus the 18th most marginal seat. Thomas's majority has ranged from 2.3% in 1997 to 26.4% in 2017.\n\nUnlike Harrow East, it had always been won by the Conservative Party until Labour's landslide in 1997, when a swing of 17.5% was the eighth-highest swing in that election; it was the safest Tory seat lost to Labour. Its electorate produced another better than average result for Labour in 2001, with a swing from the Conservatives to Labour of 5.4%, bettered in only four seats out of 650. The 2005 challenge by future Conservative MP Mike Freer produced a pro-Conservative swing of 4.5%.\n\nThe 2010 inceptive seat saw a notional swing to the Tories in line with that nationally of 5.7%; in overall outcome the incumbent Labour MP's swing increased. The Harrow West and East seats now present as less marginal than they were in previous decades.\n\nAfter a 1.1% swing to the Tories in 2015, the seat swung to Labour in 2017 by around 11%, with a local record number of votes for their incumbent candidate. At 34.4%, the Conservative vote share was the lowest in the seat's history, but the party received more votes in 2017 than in 2001 and 2010.\n\nUKIP, Liberal Democrat and Green Party candidates won less than 5% of the vote in 2015 and 2017, therefore forfeiting their deposits.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1945 general election when the Harrow constituency was split into the new seats of Harrow East and Harrow West. It was reduced in size for the 1950 general election, when a third Harrow seat, Harrow Central, was created. The Boundary Commission review before the 1983 general election saw the London Borough of Harrow contained in two seats, resulting in Harrow West gaining parts of the abolished Harrow Central.\n\nThe area covers the largely Georgian conservation area on a stand-alone, partly park-lined hill which hosts the famous Harrow School; it also includes the urban Harrow town centre, as well as suburban streets of homes with good-sized gardens and well-kept small parklands. The seat has fast London Underground links to the city centre and rail services, few dual carriageways and few high speed roads. Labour's union leader Tony McNulty lost the neighbouring Harrow East in 2010 to Blackman, who held on in 2015 and 2017. However, Harrow West's Gareth Thomas retained his seat with a reduced majority.\n\nReviewing such representation in North London, the Boundary Commission for England (\"de facto\"), as is custom agreed by Parliament, altered the area's limits to avoid malapportionment, as London's housing and rates of occupancy have altered. The western border district, town or neighbourhood of Pinner went to a new cross-Borough seat, Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner, making its source, based on a ward breakdown of the last result, and mirrored by local election results, a stronger seat for Labour; this was coupled with the inclusion of Marlborough ward which had returned many Labour councillors since World War II.\n\n\"Note: From 2010 historically Conservative-strong Pinner formed part of the new seat Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner. The 2010 changes are not based on the 2005 result as the constituency underwent major changes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829699", "title": "Hayes and Harlington (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hayes and Harlington (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHayes and Harlington is a constituency in the west of London represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by John McDonnell of the Labour Party, who also served as the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer from 2015 to 2020.\n\nThe seat, created in 1950, is 1 of 49 won (held or gained) by a Labour candidate in 2017 from a total of 73 covering London. In the period 1983-1997 the seat was Conservative-represented. From 1981 until 1983 the seat was represented, by defection, by a member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) which later merged into the Liberal Democrats. From 1950 until 1983 the seat was won by Labour candidates.\n\nIts London Heathrow Airport component has most of the border with Buckinghamshire and Surrey and its shape is near-square with a north-east square attached: Hayes and Yeading. Harlington is among the lowest-population components of the seat; with Hayes it gives its name to a railway station and with Hayes was the name of an urban district.\n\n1950–1974: The Urban District of Hayes and Harlington.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Hillingdon wards of Belmore, Frogmore, Hayes, South, and Yeading.\n\n1983–2010: The London Borough of Hillingdon wards of Barnhill, Botwell, Charville, Crane, Harlington, Heathrow, Townfield, Wood End, and Yeading.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Hillingdon wards of Barnhill, Botwell, Charville, Heathrow Villages, Pinkwell, Townfield, West Drayton, and Yeading.\n\nThe south-west is Heathrow Airport, which is the largest single provider of employment including its many associated businesses, such as retail, international distribution, cargo handling and parking throughout the seat and nearby. Housing is overwhelmingly semi-detached houses and mid-rise apartments. The topography is near-flat and features the M4 motorway, mixed-traction Great Western main line, and the airport itself. Newer housing in the seat adjoins the Grand Union Canal and reduced pollution is expected from less diesel rolling stock on the main line. The seat has an income level of earnings slightly below national and Greater London averages. Among its working-age population, the most dominant occupation sectors are manufacturing, distribution, self-employed trades and light industry.\n\nMcDonnell's majority has fluctuated between 25.4% and 41.6% of the votes cast over his runner-up, which in each election has been the Conservative Party's candidate. The 2015 result made the seat the 56th safest of the party's 232 seats (by majority percentage).\n\nThe constituency of Hayes and Harlington voted 58.25% leave versus 41.75% to remain; this is in contrast to the public stance of incumbent MP, John McDonnell, at the time of the referendum.\n\nThe seat since its 1950 creation has in most elections been quite heavily Labour-voting in relative terms (as with its predecessor in the post war years). In 1981 its Labour MP, Neville Sandelson, defected to the now Liberal-merged Social Democratic Party. Sandelson stood for election for the new party in 1983 which led to a three-way split in the vote which enabled Conservative Terry Dicks to gain the seat in 1983 and retain it in the next two General Elections on marginal majorities. In 1997, the seat swung heavily back to the Labour candidate McDonnell with his +17.5% swing exceeding that nationally (10% average swing). McDonnell's majorities have ranged between 25.4% and 41.6% of the votes cast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829700", "title": "Hendon (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hendon (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHendon is a constituency in London. It was created in 1997 and has been represented since 2010 by Matthew Offord of the Conservative Party. An earlier version of the seat existed between 1918-45.\n\nThe first incarnation of the constituency was created for the 1918 general election. By 1941, the estimated electorate reached 217,900. For the 1945 general election, the areas of the constituency were thus divided between North and South new entities and contributions to other new seats, including the principal part of Harrow East. The 1918-1945 was a period of near-full adult franchise and saw the most significant adult population increase nationally within the constituency, this coincided with a period of major residential building locally.\n\nIn the boundary change legislation passed to implement the Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies for the 1997 general election, the London Borough of Barnet's parliamentary representation was reduced from four seats to three and the Hendon North constituency was combined with a northern part of the Hendon South constituency, creating the present Hendon constituency. A south-eastern swathe of former Hendon South was placed into Finchley and Golders Green. Within 10% of the average electorate, the seat avoided malapportionment that would otherwise exist by way of two undersized constituencies.\n\nIncluding the period of division of the present area (1945—97) the various general elections up to 1997 were won by Conservatives, except for the 1945 victory of Barbara Ayrton-Gould (Labour), in Hendon North (1945–50). The last Liberal or Liberal Democrat to serve the area of either Hendon seat was in 1910. Only these three parties have won the seat or its predecessors.\n\nThe constituency has been a Conservative-Labour bellwether since 1997. Andrew Dismore won the seat in 1997 as part of a nationwide landslide victory for the Labour Party. Matthew Offord won the seat for the Conservatives in 2010 by only 106 votes. The 2015 result gave the seat the 37th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority.\n\nThe constituency includes the most deprived areas of the generally affluent London Borough of Barnet - Colindale, West Hendon and Burnt Oak. It is more ethnically diverse than the other Barnet constituencies and has a large Jewish population.\n\n1918–1945: The Urban Districts of Hendon and Kingsbury, and the Rural District of Hendon.\n\n1997–present: The London Borough of Barnet wards of Burnt Oak, Colindale, Edgware, Hale, Hendon, Mill Hill, and West Hendon.\n\nNo national reviews took place between the Representation of the People Act 1918 which enfranchised this constituency and the next such Act in 1945. Later national reviews took place by the newly established Boundary Commissions for the four countries of United Kingdom for the elections of 1950, 1974, 1983, 1997 and 2010. As can be seen from the map, during the early period the seat spanned the area made up of the present seat and primarily the two neighbours to east and west, Chipping Barnet and Harrow East.\n\nUnder the Fifth Review of Westminster Constituencies, looking at the population subset North London, and as a consequence of abolishing ward-sharing, Parliament accepted the Boundary Commission's recommendation that the shared part of Underhill be transferred to the constituency of Chipping Barnet, parts of the wards Golders Green and Finchley Church End be transferred to Finchley and Golders Green and that shared parts of Mill Hill ward be received from the named seats (to the north-east and south-east).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829702", "title": "Kensington and Chelsea (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Kensington and Chelsea (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nKensington and Chelsea was a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom 1997–2010. It was one of the safest Conservative seats in the United Kingdom, and since its creation in 1997 became a prestigious seat, with MP Alan Clark, the former Defence Secretary Michael Portillo and the former Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind all holding the seat for the Conservatives. The seat was abolished for the 2010 election, when the 1974–1997 Kensington constituency was recreated and Chelsea formed a new constituency together with the southern part of the former Hammersmith and Fulham constituency, called the Chelsea and Fulham constituency.\n\nThe constituency covered the central and southern portions of the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, covering the centres of both Kensington and Chelsea. This covered the following wards of the borough:\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary boundaries in North London, the Boundary Commission created two new constituencies based on the existing Kensington and Chelsea constituency, which were first contested at the 2010 election. The northern section (Earls Court, South Kensington, Kensington High Street and Holland Park) was combined with the southern section of the previous Regent's Park and Kensington North constituency (including Ladbroke Grove and Notting Hill) to create a new Kensington constituency, whilst the southern part (Chelsea) was combined with the southern half of the former Hammersmith and Fulham constituency to create a new Chelsea and Fulham constituency.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1997 general election. Notional calculations indicated that it would be one of the safest Conservative seats in the country and so the Conservative nomination was much sought. In the run-up to the 1997 election the nomination was initially won by Nicholas Scott, MP for the previous Chelsea constituency, but following allegations of alcoholism he was deselected.\n\nThe nomination was subsequently secured by Alan Clark, the former minister and diarist who was seeking to return to the Commons after standing down at the 1992 general election. Clark was elected, but died of brain cancer in 1999 after only two years in office. As a safe Conservative seat in London there was much speculation that former Defence Secretary and widely predicted future Conservative leader Michael Portillo would seek to return to the Commons after losing the Enfield Southgate constituency in the 1997 election. Portillo was elected in the subsequent by-election and became Shadow Chancellor but his subsequent career stalled and he crashed out of the 2001 Conservative Party leadership election and returned to the backbenches. In 2003 he announced his intention to retire from politics at the next general election to pursue a career in the media. Another former Cabinet Minister, who had also lost his seat in 1997, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, was nominated for the seat in Portillo's stead and elected at the 2005 general election.\n\nIn October 2007, amid speculation that then-Prime Minister Gordon Brown was about to call a snap general election, former Labour minister Tony Benn announced that he wanted to come out of retirement and return to the Commons, offering himself to the Kensington and Chelsea constituency Labour Party to challenge Malcolm Rifkind. Ultimately, however, no election was held that year, and the Kensington and Chelsea seat was abolished for the 2010 election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829704", "title": "Regent's Park and Kensington North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Regent's Park and Kensington North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRegent's Park and Kensington North was a constituency in Central and West London represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997 from parts of the former seats of Westminster North and Kensington. It was abolished at the 2010 general election.\n\nWith its stark contrasts between prosperity and deprivation, the constituency should have been a highly competitive marginal between the Conservative Party and Labour Party in an even year, although for the three general elections of its existence it was won firmly by Labour. Before its creation it was considered a constituency likely to produce low swings which would be won on differential turnout, similar to its predecessor seats. However, in the political climate of the late 1990s and early 2000s this proved not to be the case.\n\nThe constituency covered the areas of St John's Wood, Maida Vale, the Harrow Road, Westbourne Green, Maida Hill, Little Venice, parts of Queen's Park, parts of Ladbroke Grove and Notting Hill as well as North Kensington.\n\nThe electoral wards of the constituency were:\n\nFollowing boundary changes for local elections in 2002, Avondale and Kelfield wards were combined to create Notting Barns.\n\n\nIn 2002, a Local Government Boundary Commission for England review abolished the Hamilton Terrace and Lords wards, with the areas absorbed by Regent's Park and the new ward of Abbey Road.\n\nFor the 2005 general election, the electoral wards used in this constituency were Bayswater (part), Bryanston and Dorset Square (part), Colville, Church Street, Golborne, Harrow Road, Little Venice, Maida Vale, Norland (part), Notting Barns, Queen's Park, Regent's Park, St Charles and Westbourne.\n\nDespite the name, the seat did not include the area in the Regent's Park ward of the London Borough of Camden.\n\nThe Boundary Commission proposed that the City of Westminster, together with the sparsely populated City of London, receive two seats in its own right from the 2010 general election. As a result, Regent's Park and Kensington North was abolished, with most of the Westminster section going into a reformed Westminster North seat and the Kensington and Chelsea section going into a reformed Kensington seat, Chelsea being transferred to the new Chelsea and Fulham seat. The remainder of Westminster (chiefly the part taken from Bryanston and Dorset Square) was combined with the City of London in the Cities of London and Westminster seat. The part of Bayswater ward used in the latter, together with Lancaster Gate, were moved into Westminster North. These changes were implemented in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829705", "title": "Minister for Culture (Denmark)", "text": "Minister for Culture (Denmark)\n\nThe Minister for Culture of Denmark () is the Danish political minister office responsible for culture, head of the Ministry of Culture of Denmark.\n\nThe political responsibility for culture, as well as church and education, was with the Kultus Minister from 1848 to 1916 when that post was split up into the posts of Education Minister and Church Minister. From 1916 the Church Minister had political responsibility for culture, until the post of Minister for Culture was created in 1961.\n\nThe office was titled Minister for Cultural Affairs (\"\"Minister for kulturelle anliggender\"\") from 1961 to 1988, Culture and Communications Minister (\"\"Kultur- og kommunikationsminister\"\") from 1986 to 1988, and Minister for Culture (\"\"Kulturminister\"\") from 1988 to the present ().\n\n"}
{"id": "1829706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829706", "title": "Ruislip-Northwood (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ruislip-Northwood (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nRuislip-Northwood was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament from 1950 to 2010 that elected one member (MP) by the first past the post system of election. It was centred on the districts of Ruislip and Northwood in the London Borough of Hillingdon.\n\nThe seat returned each of three Conservatives who stood in turn. Its narrowest majority was 17.4% in 1997, over the Labour Party candidate.\n\nThis represented the northern half of the earlier Uxbridge constituency which was divided into two following house-building in the area in 1950.\n\nRuislip-Northwood was constituency that as such covered slightly elevated and gently hilly outskirts of West London, beginning WNW of Charing Cross.\n\nAll three of its successive Members of Parliament were Old Etonians and as the majorities they received were non-marginal, with their contributions the seat was throughout its elections a safe seat.\n\nAlmost all of its area has been succeeded by Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner.\n\n1950–1974: The Urban District of Ruislip-Northwood.\n\n1974–1983: The London Borough of Hillingdon wards of Eastcote, Haydon, Manor, Northwood, Ruislip, and South Ruislip.\n\n1983–1997: The London Borough of Hillingdon wards of Bourne, Cavendish, Deansfield, Eastcote, Manor, Northwood, Northwood Hills, Ruislip, and St Martins.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Hillingdon wards of Bourne, Cavendish, Deansfield, Eastcote, Harefield, Manor, Northwood, Northwood Hills, Ruislip, and St Martins.\n\nThe constituency consisted of the northern part of the London Borough of Hillingdon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829708", "title": "Adalimumab", "text": "Adalimumab\n\nAdalimumab, sold under the brand name Humira among others, is a medication used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, uveitis, and juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Use is generally only recommended in people who have not responded to other treatments. It is used by injection under the skin.\nCommon side effects include upper respiratory tract infections, pain at the site of injection, rash, and headache. Other side effects may include serious infections, cancer, anaphylaxis, reactivation of hepatitis B, multiple sclerosis, heart failure, liver failure, and aplastic anemia. Use during pregnancy is not recommended, while some feel use during breastfeeding may be safe. Adalimumab is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug and monoclonal antibody that works by inactivating tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα).\nAdalimumab was approved for medical use in the United States in 2002. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the safest and most effective medicines needed in a health system. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs the NHS about £704.28 as of 2018. In the United States the wholesale cost of this amount is about . In 2014, a biosimilar came to market in India at a price of per month. While the patent expired in the United States in 2016, it may take a number of years before generic versions become available there. In 2017, it was the 169th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than three million prescriptions.\n\nLike other TNF inhibitors, it is an immunosuppressive medication, used to treat autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nAdalimumab is administered by subcutaneous injection. For most indications, the maintenance treatment is an injection every other week.\n\nIn the US, adalimumab is indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, adult crohn's disease, pediatric crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, plaque psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, and uveitis.\n\nAdalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults. It may be used alone or in combination with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD). It has also been shown to have efficacy in moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children four years and older, and is indicated for the treatment of that condition. In rheumatoid athritis, it is indicated for use alone, or with methotrexate or similar medicines, in the United States since 2002. It has a similar effectiveness as methotrexate and, in combination, nearly doubles the response rate of methotrexate alone.\n\nIn 2003, adalimumab began undergoing trials for use in treating psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.\n\nAdalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of, and is approved for treatment of, ankylosing spondylitis in adults.\n\nAdalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severe Crohn's disease. It has been approved for that use in the UK since 2009.\n\nAdalimumab may be effective and well tolerated in ulcerative colitis. It has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of moderate to severe cases in adults.\n\nAdalimumab has been shown to treat moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adults who have the condition in many areas of their body and who may benefit from taking injections or pills (systemic therapy) or phototherapy (treatment using ultraviolet light alone or with pills). Adalimumab has been shown to be effective therapy when used either continuously or intermittently in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis.\n\nAdalimumab was approved for hidradenitis suppurativa in 2015.\n\nAdalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children aged four years and older.\n\nAdalimumab is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious uveitis (inflammation of the layer beneath the white of the eyeball).\n\nThere is strong evidence that adalimumab increases risk of serious infections, such as tuberculosis. It also increases the risk of cancers, including lymphoma and solid malignancies. The risk of cancer is higher with higher doses of adalimumab.\n\nThere are rare reports of serious liver injury; rare reports of demyelinating central nervous system disorders; and rare reports of cardiac failure—the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a black box warning to doctors, which appears in the product labeling of adalimumab and other TNF-inhibiting drugs, instructing them to screen and monitor potential patients more carefully. Anaphylaxis or other serious allergic reactions may also occur.\n\nAdalimumab was the first fully human monoclonal antibody approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It was derived from phage display.\n\nAdalimumab was discovered as a result of a collaboration between BASF Bioresearch Corporation and Cambridge Antibody Technology, U.K., itself a collaboration of the government-funded Medical Research Council and three academics, which began in 1993.\n\nInitially named D2E7, it was then further manufactured at BASF Bioresearch Corporation, developed by BASF Knoll (BASF Pharma), and ultimately manufactured and marketed by Abbott Laboratories after Abbott's acquisition of BASF Pharma. On 1 January 2013, Abbott split into two companies, one retaining the Abbott name and the other named AbbVie. As a result, AbbVie took over development and marketing of Humira. The brand name Humira stands for \"human monoclonal antibody in rheumatoid arthritis\", and was named by one of Abbott's employees, Richard J. Karwoski, who was also responsible for leading the effort to get Humira approved by the FDA.\n\nIt was the third TNF inhibitor, after infliximab and etanercept, to be approved in the United States. It was constructed from a fully human monoclonal antibody, while infliximab is a mouse-human chimeric antibody and etanercept is a TNF receptor-IgG fusion protein.\n\nThe drug candidate was discovered initially using CAT's phage display technology and named D2E7. The key components of the drug were found by guiding the selection of human antibodies from phage display repertoires to a single epitope of an antigen TNF alpha. The ultimate clinical candidate, D2E7, was created and manufactured at BASF Bioresearch Corporation and taken through most of the drug development process by BASF Knoll, then further development, manufacturing and marketing by Abbott Laboratories, after Abbott acquired the pharmaceutical arm of BASF Knoll.\n\nSince 2008, adalimumab had been approved by the FDA for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease, moderate to severe chronic psoriasis and juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Although only approved for ulcerative colitis from late 2012, by the FDA in the disease's management, it had been used for several years in cases that have not responded to conventional treatment at standard dosing for Crohn's disease.\n\nAdalimumab, sold under the brand name Humira, was approved for use in the United States in 2002.\n\nAdalimumab, sold under the brand names Humira and Trudexa, was approved for use in the European Union in September 2003.\n\n\nFrom 2012, until the US patent expiry in 2016, Humira led the list of top-selling pharmaceutical products, and in 2016, it had of global sales.\n\nIn March 2003, Cambridge Antibody Technology (CAT) stated its wish to \"initiate discussions regarding the applicability of the royalty offset provisions for Humira\" with Abbott Laboratories in the High Court of London. In November 2004, the trial began, and in December 2004, Justice Hugh Laddie ruled for CAT.\n\nA short version of the full statement of the proceedings was released. In it Justice Laddie remarked, \"Abbott was in error when it made its first royalty payment to CAT calculated on the basis that only 2% of the Net Sales was due. It should have calculated on the basis of the full royalty of just over 5% and should have paid and continued to pay CAT accordingly.\" Justice Laddie went on to observe \"...that the construction advanced by Abbott does violence to the language of the agreements, renders them obscure and makes little or no commercial sense. For this reason CAT wins the action.\"\n\nAbbott was required to pay CAT , some of which was to be passed to its partners in development. Of this sum, the Medical Research Council received , and in addition, Abbott was asked to pay the MRC a further over five years from 2006, providing that Humira remains on the market. The MRC also is to receive a further £5.1million (sterling) in respect of past royalties.\n\nOn 29 May 2009, Johnson & Johnson's Centocor unit, the maker of infliximab, won a ruling for $1.67billion from Abbott Laboratories for patent infringement on the process for making Humira. However, in 2011, the judgment was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.\n\nIn 2014, Indian drugmaker Cadila Healthcare declared the launch of the first adalimumab biosimilar at a fifth of its US price. The generic was launched under the brand name Exemptia. In 2016, Indian drugmaker Torrent Pharmaceuticals launched its biosimilar for adalimumab, called Adfrar. It was the second generic biosimilar of adalimumab.\n\nIn 2016, the FDA approved Amgen's biosimilar adalimumab-atto, sold under the brand name Amjevita. Amjevita won't be available in the US until at least February 2023. In 2017, the FDA approved German pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim's biosimilar, Cyltezo.\n\nIn 2017, the biosimilars Amgevita, Solymbic, Imraldi, and Cyltezo were approved for use in the European Union.\n\nIn 2018, the biosimilars Halimatoz, Hefiya, Hyrimoz, and Hulio were approved for use in the European Union.\n\nAdalimumab biosimilars became available in Europe in late 2018, allowing the National Health Service to make record-breaking cost-savings, as this is the single most expensive drug used in NHS hospitals, costing more than £400million a year for about 46,000 patients. It may not become available in the United States until 2023.\n\nIn 2018, adalimumab-adaz (Hyrimoz) was approved for use in the United States.\n\nIn April 2019, Idacio and Kromeya were approved for use in the European Union.\n\nIn July 2019, adalimumab-bwwd (Hadlima), produced by Samsung Bioepsis, was approved for use in the US. However, it will not be available until at least June 2023, after the availability of Amgen's offering as a result of a negotiated intellectual property settlement with AbbVie.\n\nIn November 2019, adalimumab-afzb (Abrilada) was approved for use in the United States. It was the 25th biosimilar to be approved by the FDA.\n\nIn February 2020, the biosimilar Amsparity was approved for use in the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829709", "title": "Bristol East (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bristol East (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBristol East is a constituency recreated in 1983 covering the eastern part of the City of Bristol. An earlier guise of the seat existed between 1885 and 1950.\n\nThe seat was first created in 1885. Boundaries were slightly altered in 1918 and Bristol East was abolished in a comprehensive review of the local seats for the 1950 general election.\n\nThe most powerful representative of Bristol East in Parliament and H.M. Government was Sir Stafford Cripps, MP (\"Lab\") 1931-1950, who was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1947-1950. The seat shifted from Liberal Party representation through to the Labour Party with the 1918-1923 period seeing a more centrist Liberal splinter group candidate elected.\n\nThe seat was recreated in 1983 on much larger boundaries than before 1950, reflecting the lower occupation levels of the city centre and allocation of new seats elsewhere to reflect population expansion mainly in former rural and lightly-populated suburban areas.\n\nThe 1983 election, the first in the recreated East seat, was a landslide victory for Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives following retention of the Falkland Islands in the Falklands War. Bristol East returned a Conservative MP, as Jonathan Sayeed defeated Tony Benn, the outgoing MP for Bristol South East and the leader of a large faction on the left-wing of the Labour Party. In 1992 Labour's Jean Corston gained the seat from Sayeed, which has been retained by Labour candidates at each subsequent general election, the Conservatives coming second, except in 2005, when the Liberal Democrats did so. The 2015 result gave the seat the 42nd-smallest majority of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority; however, in 2017, incumbent MP Kerry McCarthy more than tripled her majority, winning the largest share of the vote in the seat's history and by the biggest margin since 1997.\n\nTurnout has ranged between 80.3% in 1992 to 57.4% in 2001.\n\nFive parties' candidates achieved more than the deposit-retaining threshold of 5% of the vote in 2015. Liberal Democrat candidate Philip James won the largest third-party share of the vote to date, in the 2005 election — 25.2% of the vote.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Bristol ward of South, part of North ward, and the local government district of St George.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Bristol wards of St George East and St George West, and parts of Easton, and Somerset wards.\n\n1983–1997: The City of Bristol wards of Brislington East, Brislington West, Easton, Eastville, Hengrove, Lawrence Hill, and Stockwood.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Bristol wards of Brislington East, Brislington West, Easton, Eastville, Lawrence Hill, St George East, St George West, and Stockwood.\n\n2010–present: The City of Bristol wards of Brislington East, Brislington West, Eastville, Frome Vale, Hillfields, St George East, St George West, and Stockwood.\n\nThe constituency covers the eastern part of the city of Bristol, from neighbourhoods of the City Centre to outer neighbourhoods (excluding surrounding settlements in local government administratively).\n\n \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829724", "title": "1995 Croatian parliamentary election", "text": "1995 Croatian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Croatia on 29 October 1995 to elect the 127 members of the Chamber of Representatives. The result was a victory for the Croatian Democratic Union, which won 75 seats, an absolute majority. Therefore, this was the last election to date in which a single party won enough seats to govern alone, without the need for parliamentary support from pre-election or post-election coalition partners. Voter turnout was 68.8%.\n\nThe term of the existing Chamber of Representatives was to expire one year later, in 1996. However, Croatian government of Franjo Tudjman and his Croatian Democratic Union party hoped to exploit national euphoria over the success of Operation Storm. Chamber of Representatives was quickly dissolved, but not before passing yet another piece of electoral legislation, introducing new voting system which was to improve chances of ruling party.\n\nAccording to the new electoral law, 32 seats were won in individual constituencies on First past the post basis, while 80 seats were to be distributed on the basis of proportional representation, with the threshold being raised from previous 2% to 5%.\n\nAnother addition was raised threshold for lists of party coalitions - 8% for coalition of two parties and 11% for coalition of three and more parties. It is more than obvious that the new rules were introduced to discourage coalitions of small opposition parties and subsequently have their votes dispersed and wasted below the threshold, allowing stronger party to get additional seats.\n\nWhile 12 seats were kept for Croatian expatriates, number of seats reserved for ethnic minorities have changed. This was most evident in case of Serbs, who had only 3 seats compared with previous 11.\n\nUnder such conditions, Croatian opposition parties were more concerned about their own political survival than actually challenging ruling party. Learning from their mistakes during 1992 elections, they created ad hoc coalitions and circumvented electoral thresholds by fielding other parties' members as their own candidates on the lists.\n\nIn the end, HDZ won roughly the same percentage of votes and same number of seats as three years earlier. More significant changes were among the ranks of Croatian opposition. Social Democratic Party of Croatia re-emerged as significant political factor with 8.93% votes, at the expense of Croatian Social Liberal Party which had its share of votes nearly halved. Both parties, however, were not as successful as large opposition coalition which included Croatian Peasant Party, Croatian People's Party and Istrian Democratic Assembly.\n\nThe most tense moment of the campaign occurred during the vote count. It appeared that Croatian Party of Rights would fail to break 5% threshold, only for the vote to mysteriously increase afterwards.\n\nThe election was held in conjunction with special elections for Zagreb City Assembly, which resulted with Zagreb Crisis.\n\n Within the alliance, the Croatian Peasant Party won 10 seats (+7), the Istrian Democratic Assembly won 4 (+1), the Croatian People's Party won 2 (–4), the Croatian Christian Democratic Union won 1 (+1) and the Slavonia-Baranja Croatian Party won 1 (+1).\n\nThe following changes happened after elections:\n\n"}
{"id": "1829734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829734", "title": "Dolores Hart", "text": "Dolores Hart\n\nDolores Hart, O.S.B., (born October 20, 1938) is an American Roman Catholic Benedictine nun who was previously a prominent actress. She made ten films in five years, playing opposite Stephen Boyd, Montgomery Clift, George Hamilton, and Robert Wagner, having made her movie debut with Elvis Presley in \"Loving You\" (1957). By the early 1960s an established leading lady, she \"stunned Hollywood\" by announcing that she would forgo her life as an actress, leaving behind her career to enter the Abbey of Regina Laudis monastery in Connecticut, where she serves her monastic community.\n\nBorn Dolores Hicks, she was the only child of actor Bert Hicks and Harriett Hicks, who separated when she was three years old, and ultimately divorced. She stated, \"As a child I was precocious. My parents married when they were 16 and 17 and both were beautiful people. Moss Hart offered my mother, Harriett, a contract but by then they had me and my father, Bert Hicks, a bit player, definitely a Clark Gable type, had movie offers so he moved from Chicago to Hollywood. I was a Hollywood brat. He lived in Beverly Hills and I used to visit the lots with him. He had a bit part in \"Forever Amber\". I always wanted to be part of that life.\"\n\nHicks was also related by marriage, through an aunt, to singer Mario Lanza. She lived in Chicago with her grandparents, who sent her to a parochial school, St. Gregory Catholic School, not for its religious education but it was closest to home and she stated, \"My grandparents didn't want me to get run over by streetcars.\" It was actually her grandfather, a movie theater projectionist to whom she turned for comfort in light of her parents' marital problems, whose enthusiasm for films influenced her decision to pursue an acting career. She would watch the films, but without sound so as not to disturb his naps in the booth, and her job was to wake him at the end of each reel.\n\nHicks converted to Catholicism when she was 10. By age 11, she was living again in Beverly Hills with her mother, a restaurant greeter, who married owner Al Gordon. After high school, she studied at Marymount College. Using the stage name of 'Dolores Hart' in 1956 she was signed to play a supporting role as the love interest to Elvis Presley in the 1957 release \"Loving You\". After this appearance, Hart found herself in frequent demand, and she made two more films before appearing with Presley again in 1958's \"King Creole\". She has denied ever having had an 'intimate' relationship with Presley off-screen. In interviews during her movie career she was often asked, \"What is it like kissing Elvis?\" She chuckled a bit at the memory, \"I think the limit for a screen kiss back then was something like 15 seconds. That one has lasted 40 years.\" Hart then made her debut on Broadway, winning a 1959 Theatre World Award as well as a Tony Award nomination for Best Featured Actress for her role in \"The Pleasure of His Company\".\nIn 1960 Hart starred in \"Where the Boys Are\", a teenage comedy about college students on spring break, which developed a near cult-like following. In the film Hart plays a co-ed who struggles to define herself when confronted with her newly discovered sexuality and popularity with the opposite sex. Hart starred in the film \"Francis of Assisi\" in 1961, in which she played Saint Clare of Assisi. She also made a sketch of a St. Francis statue, arms outstretched, while working on the movie.\nShe went on to star in four more films, including the lead role in \"The Inspector\" (\"Lisa\") which was based on a novel by Jan de Hartog, which was nominated for a Golden Globe for \"Best Picture – Drama\".\n\nIn 1963 Hart appeared as Kathy Maywood on \"The Virginian\" in the episode \"The Mountain of the Sun\". Hart played a Catholic missionary, who against all warnings risks her life to honor both her vows to God and her desire to continue her dead husband's work to help a community of poor and sick embattled Indian tribes. It was perhaps a foreshadowing of her soon-to-be religious life. It was the last acting role that was released (April 17, 1963), a month after Hart's last film role was with Hugh O'Brian in March of 1963's \"Come Fly with Me\". At this point she had made up her mind to leave the film industry. The 24-year-old actress became a Roman Catholic nun at the Benedictine Abbey of Regina Laudis in Bethlehem, Connecticut. On a 1963 New York promotional stop for \"Come Fly with Me\", she took a one-way car ride to the abbey in 1963 (but not in a limousine as reported).\n\nIt was during the filming of \"Come Fly With Me\" that she became close friends with Karl Malden, who also starred in the picture. Malden wrote in his autobiography \"When Do I Start\" that when he and his wife Mona wanted to go out, Dolores would spend time babysitting their kids. She adored the Maldens' children and quickly became like a member of the family. It was shortly after the picture that Dolores got engaged and she actually asked Malden's daughters Mila and Carla to be her bridesmaids. It was after they had a couple of fittings on their dresses that Dolores appeared at the Maldens’ and announced she was calling off the wedding. A few days later she came over with what amounted to all her worldly possessions, jewelry, purses and knick-knacks, and told the girls to take what they wanted. She said she was moving away and that it was \"an affair of the heart\" (her exact words quoted by Karl Malden). She not only left behind her fiancé, she left her acting career as well.\n\nEven though she broke off her engagement to Los Angeles architect Don Robinson (April 16, 1933 – November 29, 2011), they remained close friends: she admitted she loved him—\"Of course, Don, I love you.\" But Robinson said, \"Every love doesn't have to wind up at the altar.\" He never married, and visited her every year at Christmas and Easter at the abbey in Connecticut until his death.\n\nWhile Hart was making \"Francis of Assisi\" in Rome, she met Pope John XXIII, who was instrumental in her vocation. She told him \"I am Dolores Hart, the actress playing Clare.\" The Pontiff replied, \"\"Tu sei Chiara!\"\" (\"No, you \"are\" Clare!\" in Italian).\n\nAs a novice, she told the abbey founder Lady Abbess Benedict Duss, \"I will never have to worry again about being an actress because it was all over and behind me.\" But Lady Abbess replied, \"I'm sorry, but you're completely wrong. Now you have to take up a role and really work at it.\" Hart submitted a rejoinder, \"I was so mad when she said that because I really emptied my pockets, so to speak, and literally had given away everything that had meant anything to me.\" The Abbess said, \"I'm sorry you did that because there's a lot of things you gave away that you're going to need here.\" She initially took the religious name Sister Judith, but she changed it to Sister Dolores for her final vows. \"Hal Wallis wanted to call me Susan when I started my movie career, but I was under age and my mother would not hear of it. She wanted me to be Dolores.\" She took her final vows in 1970. She chants in Latin eight times a day.\n\nHart visited Hollywood again in 2006 after 43 years in the monastery to raise awareness for idiopathic peripheral neuropathy disorder, a neurological disorder that afflicts her and many Americans. In April 2006 she testified at a Washington congressional hearing on the need for research of the painful and crippling disease amid her ordeal.\n\nHart, who was compared to Grace Kelly, was instrumental in developing the Abbey of Regina Laudis's project of expansion of its community connection through the arts, using her fame. Paul Newman helped her with funding for a lighting grid, when she envisioned a year-round arts school and a better-equipped stage. Another friend, the Academy Award winning actress Patricia Neal, helped support the abbey's theater. Hart's vision was to meet the abbey's needs—development and expansion of its open-air theater and arts program for the Bethlehem community. Every summer, the abbey's 38 nuns on of rural land, help the community stage a musical, with the 2008 presentation of \"West Side Story\", after previous shows \"Fiddler on the Roof\", \"The Music Man\" and \"My Fair Lady\".\n\nHart was named prioress of the monastery in 2001, after the election of Mother David Serna as second abbess of Regina Laudis, and held that office until 2015. Hart remains a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, having in recent years become the only nun to be an Oscar-voting member.\n\nHart often appears in public wearing a beret on top of her habit. When asked about it by an interviewer she stated that early in her vocation, because nuns have to \"cut your hair quite short in order to get your cap on, your wimple, your bandeau, and all of that,\" she told her superior that \"my head is freezing even when I put the veil on!\" When informed that she could \"put another veil on top of it\" she thought \"oh, that’s pretty dull isn’t it? And someone gave me a little tam, so I asked if I could wear that\". She was granted permission \"and now a lot of the young ones [novices and other nuns] pick up the beret [because] they like it, but it’s not actually part of our habit. It’s part of our tradition that what helps a nun to be herself can certainly [be] a part of our system.\"\n\nOn October 4, 2008, \"The Holy Trinity Apostolate\", founded by Rev. John Hardon, S.J., sponsored a \"Breakfast with Mother Dolores Hart\". Held at Rochester, Michigan's Royal Park Hotel, Hart told her story: \"He Led Me Out into an Open Space; He Saved Me Because He Loved Me: The Journey of Mother Dolores Hart to Regina Laudis\". Since 1963, when she joined the Bethlehem abbey, she disciplined herself under the Rule of Saint Benedict. At the breakfast, several people spoke, including Patricia Neal and Maria Cooper Janis, the daughter of Hollywood leading man Gary Cooper.\n\nA documentary film about Hart's life, \"God Is the Bigger Elvis\", was a nominee for the 2012 Academy Award for Best Documentary (Short Subject) and was shown on HBO in April 2012. Hart attended the 2012 Academy Awards for the documentary; her last red-carpet Oscar event had been in 1959 as a Hollywood starlet.\n\nIn her autobiography, \"The Ear of the Heart: An Actress’ Journey From Hollywood to Holy Vows\" (Ignatius Press)—co-authored with lifelong friend Richard DeNeut and released May 7, 2013—Hart told her life story, from her birth in Chicago to becoming Catholic, from her Hollywood adventures to monastery life.\n\n\"The Seven Ages of Elvis\" is a 90-minute UK feature documentary produced and directed by David Upshal, and broadcast by Sky Arts to mark the 40th anniversary of the death of Elvis Presley.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829735", "title": "The Futureheads (album)", "text": "The Futureheads (album)\n\nThe Futureheads is the self-titled debut studio album by British indie rock band The Futureheads. It was released on 12 July 2004 and spawned the singles \"First Day\", \"Decent Days and Nights\", \"Meantime\", and \"Hounds of Love\" (a Kate Bush cover). The album received critical praise and was re-released as a special edition in 2005 featuring a DVD and coming with a slightly re-designed cover in pink rather than the standard LP's grey.\n\n\"Decent Days and Nights\" and \"Hounds of Love\" were made available for the \"Rock Band\" platform on 9 March 2010. \"Decent Days and Nights\" also appeared on the \"Burnout 3\" soundtrack. \"Meantime\" was used in a second season episode of the hit TV series \"The O.C.\", and the film, \"Grandma's Boy\".\n\nThe album was named the 33rd best record of 2004 by \"Pitchfork\".\n\nAll songs written by The Futureheads, unless otherwise stated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829741", "title": "Ōtsuki Fumihiko", "text": "Ōtsuki Fumihiko\n\nŌtsuki Fumihiko was born in the section of Edo in what is now part of Ginza, Tokyo. He was the third son of the Confucian scholar and gunnery expert and the grandson of the Confucian and Western scholar . Following family tradition, he embarked on Western studies, studying English and mathematics at the \"Kaiseijo\" school (one of the predecessors of the University of Tokyo). \n\nAs a youth, Ōtsuki was employed as an advisor to Sendai Domain, and fought at the Battle of Toba–Fushimi in the Boshin War of the Meiji Restoration on the losing Tokugawa Bakufu side. He later assisted in the formation of the Ōuetsu Reppan Dōmei.\nAfter the Meiji Restoration, he worked as a translator while learning English from Americans in the port city of Yokohama. Around 1872, he joined in the editing of an English–Japanese dictionary for the Ministry of Education, and he later worked on textbooks and taught at schools in Miyagi Prefecture.\n\nAlthough Ōtsuki paid for the original publication expenses for \"Genkai\" himself, it was soon republished and expanded in commercial editions that went through over a thousand printings. Modeled in part on Western monolingual dictionaries, \"Genkai\" gave not only basic information about words—their representations in \"kana\" and \"kanji\" and their definitions in Japanese—but also pronunciations and etymologies and citations of their use. Its successor, the four-volume \"Daigenkai,\" though published under Ōtsuki's name and based in part on his work, appeared some years after his death and was completed by other lexicographers.\nŌtsuki's grammatical works, especially ' and ', strongly influenced the teaching of Japanese grammar for generations to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829742", "title": "Gerald Weinberg", "text": "Gerald Weinberg\n\nGerald Marvin Weinberg (October 27, 1933 – August 7, 2018) was an American computer scientist, author and teacher of the psychology and anthropology of computer software development. His most well-known books are \"The Psychology of Computer Programming\" and \"Introduction to General Systems Thinking\".\n\nGerald Weinberg was born and raised in Chicago. He attended Omaha Central High School in Omaha, Nebraska. In 1963 he received a PhD in Communication Sciences from the University of Michigan.\n\nWeinberg started working in the computing business at IBM in 1956 at the Federal Systems Division Washington, where he participated as Manager of Operating Systems Development in the Project Mercury (1959–1963), which aimed to put a human in orbit around the Earth. In 1960 he published one of his first papers. Since 1969 was consultant and Principal at Weinberg & Weinberg. Here he conducted workshops such as the AYE Conference, The Problem Solving Leadership workshop since 1974, and workshops about the Fieldstone Method. Further Weinberg was an author at Dorset House Publishing since 1970, consultant at Microsoft since 1988, and moderator at the Shape Forum since 1993.\n\nWeinberg was a visiting professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Binghamton University, and Columbia University. He was a member of the Society for General Systems Research since the late 1950s. He was also a Founding Member of the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, a member of the Southwest Writers and the Oregon Writers Network, and a Keynote Speaker on many software development conferences. \nIn 1993 he was the Winner of The J.-D. Warnier Prize for Excellence in Information Sciences, the 2000 Winner of The Stevens Award for Contributions to Software Engineering, the 2010 Software Test Professionals first annual Luminary Award and the European Testing Excellence Award at the EuroSTAR Conference in 2013.\n\nWeinberg died on August 7, 2018.\n\nHis most well-known books are \"The Psychology of Computer Programming\" and \"Introduction to General Systems Thinking\", both of which are considered to be classics, having been re-issued by the publisher in \"Silver Editions\". His book \"Becoming a Technical Leader\" is one of fewer than a dozen books specific to managing software programmers and teams.\n\nWeinberg is well known for an engaging style of writing that calls upon his own humorous aphorisms, such as his Law of Twins, which states that most of the time, no matter how much effort one expends, no event of any great significance will result. He described it in his book \"The Secrets of Consulting\" (1985), in which he explains the origin of its name. He reported that, while riding a bus in New York City, he observed a mother with eight small children embark. She asked the driver the amount of the fare; he told her that the cost was thirty-five cents, but that children under the age of five could ride for free. When the woman deposited only thirty-five cents into the payment slot, the driver was incredulous. \"Do you mean to tell me that all your children are under five years old?\" The woman explained that she had four sets of twins. The driver replied, \"Do you always have twins?\" \"No,\" said the woman, \"most of the time we don't have any.\"\n\nIn recent years, Weinberg was involved with the SHAPE Forum (Software as a Human Activity Performed Effectively) and working with the AYE Conference. Weinberg’s life and work were honored in November 2008 with the publication of \"The Gift of Time\", a collection of essays by a few of his students, colleagues, and friends, describing lessons learned from Weinberg and incorporated in their own consulting and managerial work.\n\nWeinberg has also written and published a number of novels.\n\nWeinberg has published more than 40 books and more than 400 articles. A selection:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829743", "title": "Democratic Indira Congress (Karunakaran)", "text": "Democratic Indira Congress (Karunakaran)\n\nDemocratic Indira Congress (Karunakaran) (DIC(K)) was a political party in Kerala, India. DIC(K) was founded at a meeting in Thrissur by the K. Karunakuran faction of the Indian National Congress on 1 May 2005. Initially it was called National Congress (Indira), but the name was changed DIC(K) for registration purposes in August of the same year.\n\nKarunakuran's son K. Muraleedharan was the party president. The party allied with the Left Democratic Front in the local elections and made success. But the party was not considered for a tie up during the state assembly elections that followed. The party could not make any impression in the elections as expected. Later, Karunakaran and Muraleedharan, along with some other party members, moved to Nationalist Congress Party. After a brief while, Karunakaran returned to Congress.\n\nThe party was formed as a result of internal problems in the Congress Party. The break was preceded by much acrimony within the ruling Congress Party, due to perceived slights to Karunakaran, disregarding his lifelong services to the party. Karuunakaran's son Muraleedharan and Kerala Congress leader T. M. Jacob were the other leaders of the party. Following its split, the DIC(K) has been warmly received into the opposition Left Democratic Front combine. This acceptance has all but guaranteed DIC(K)'s return to power as the unpopular ruling combine is likely to lose badly in the assembly elections, which are due shortly.\n\nThe party has however not been void of internal dissent. Ahead of the 2005 panchayat elections, DIC(K) aligned with the Left Democratic Front. However, ahead of the 2006 Kerala legislative assembly elections the party entered into an understanding with the United Democratic Front to try to ensure K. Muraleedharan's victory in the assembly polls. That led to a grouping within the party forming a 'DIC(K) Left Forum'. The Forum had plans of founding a new party after the elections.\n\nLater, DIC decided to merge with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) led by Sharad Pawar. This resulted in a chaos in DIC and many of the leaders of the DIC have decided to go back to the Indian National Congress. The party is defunct now.\n\nThe party's tricolour flag had the charkha and picture of Indira Gandhi as symbols.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829749", "title": "Rembrandt House Museum", "text": "Rembrandt House Museum\n\nThe Rembrandt House Museum () is a historic house and art museum in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. Painter Rembrandt lived and worked in the house between 1639 and 1656. The 17th-century interior has been reconstructed. The collection contains Rembrandt's etchings and paintings of his contemporaries. The museum had in 2014.\n\nThe house is located in the Jodenbreestraat in Amsterdam, where Rembrandt lived and painted for a number of years, not far from the present-day city hall.\n\nRembrandt purchased the house in 1639 and lived there until he went bankrupt in 1656, when all his belongings went on auction. The auction list enabled the reconstructions of all his belongings which are also on display in the house.\n\nA few years ago the house was thoroughly reconstructed on the inside to show how the house would have looked in Rembrandt's days. Adjoining (and linked to) the house is a modern building where work of Rembrandt is on display, mainly etchings and also a part of his collection of objects from all over the world.\n\nMichael Huijser is the museum director and David de Witt is the curator.\n\nSince 2008, the museum had around 200,000 visitors per year, with a record number of 237,383 visitors in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829756", "title": "Shaun Murphy (singer)", "text": "Shaun Murphy (singer)\n\nShaun Murphy (born May 6, 1948) is an American blues and R&B singer songwriter, best known for her powerhouse singing style. Her recording career started in 1971 with Motown Records.\n\nMurphy shared the stage with many Detroit-based bands, including Wilson Mower Pursuit and Jake Wade and the Soul Searchers, in venues such as Detroit's Grande Ballroom, as well as the first Ann Arbor Blues Festival in 1969, along with various large state fairground music venues. She was soon noticed by an employee of Motown in a touring theater production along with Texas native Meat Loaf. The two were signed by Rare Earth Records, a division of Motown Records, as Stoney and Meatloaf in 1971. That pairing was short-lived and became defunct, although they had previously also been fellow cast members of the Detroit production of Hair. Only Murphy was retained under contract after the breakup of the duo.\n\nAfter a period of inactivity with the new division of Motown in Los Angeles, she left Motown and contacted Detroit music producer Punch Andrews for possible opportunities. Murphy then relocated back to Detroit in 1973 to work with Bob Seger. She has continued to work with Seger in the studio since 1973, in addition to performing on all of his tours since 1978.\n\nShe returned again to live in Los Angeles in 1985 while working with Eric Clapton on his \"Behind the Sun\" album. Murphy joined Clapton's band for the ensuing tour, which included Live Aid.\n\nMurphy's career in vocals has been both as band lead singer and session singer. She has sung, toured, and recorded with such acts as the Moody Blues, Bob Seger, Herbie Hancock, Phil Collins, Glenn Frey, Joe Walsh, Maria Muldaur, Bruce Hornsby, Michael Bolton, Coco Montoya, Alice Cooper, Little Feat and rock musicals, \"Hair\" and \"Sgt. Pepper's\", etc.\n\nIn 1993, she became a full-time member of the Los Angeles-based band Little Feat. She stayed on for the next fifteen years, recording and touring with them until 2009.\n\nIn September 2009 the Shaun Murphy Band released the album \"Livin' The Blues\". A second album, \"The Trouble With Lovin\"', followed in 2010. Late in 2011, Murphy released a DVD and live album both titled \"Shaun Murphy Live at Callahan's\", recorded at Callahan's Music Hall, Auburn Hills, Michigan.\nHer album \"Ask for the Moon\", released in 2012, was nominated for three Grammy Awards and won two Blues Blast music awards. She released \"Cry Of Love\" in 2013. \"Loretta\" was released in February 2015. \"Mighty Gates\" was released in October 2017 on Vision Wall Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829758", "title": "Princeton, British Columbia", "text": "Princeton, British Columbia\n\nPrinceton (originally Vermilion Forks) is a town in the Similkameen region of southern British Columbia, Canada. It lies just east of the Cascade Mountains, which continue south into Washington, Oregon and California. The Tulameen and Similkameen Rivers converge here. At the 2016 census, the population was 2,828.\n\nPrinceton centres on seven blocks of businesses along Bridge Street and five blocks on Vermilion Avenue; there are also businesses along British Columbia Highway 3.\n\nHistorically, the area's main industry has been mining—copper, gold, coal, and some platinum—The town's biggest employers are Copper Mountain Mine and a sawmill owned by Weyerhaeuser, along with a few smaller timber companies, such as Princeton Wood Preservers and Princeton Post and Rail.\n\nBefore European contact, the land around today's Princeton was known among First Nations people as a source of red ochre. Beginning no later than 1846, fur traders, settlers, and miners established trails connecting what was then known as Vermilion Forks to the Pacific Coast of British Columbia. John Fall Allison became, in 1858, the first permanent settler of European ancestry. To this day, the site of his home functions locally as a kilometre zero, with creeks east of Princeton having names like \"Five Mile\" based on their distance from that location. The town he founded was renamed \"Prince Town\" (later corrupted to \"Princeton\") to honour an 1860 visit to eastern Canada by Prince Edward (later King Edward VII).\n\nIn the years 1909–1915 the railways arrived, with the Kettle Valley Railway (later Canadian Pacific) connecting Princeton to the Great Northern.\n\nUntil 1961, Princeton was home to a brewery, the Princeton Brewing Company. Until the 1940s, the brewery kept its beer cool in the Vermilion Cave. The cave, which held up to 20 railway cars at a time, was largely demolished to make way for the Hope-Princeton Highway, part of the Crowsnest Highway (British Columbia Highway 3).\n\nPrinceton joined the Canadian Board of Trade (later Chamber of Commerce) in 1913, and was incorporated as a village in 1951, and as a town in 1978. Beginning in the 1980s, Princeton began to revitalize its downtown, a plan that included red brick sidewalks and new streetlights. In the 1990s, they adopted a \"heritage\" theme, with many businesses converting their exteriors to match architectural styles from roughly a century earlier. Further landscaping of the town centre continues as of 2008.\n\nThe historic Princeton Hotel on Bridge Street, which had been in operation since 1912, burned to the ground on April 8, 2006.\n\nThe name Vermilion Forks survives in the name of Vermilion Forks Indian Reserve No. 1, which is immediately adjacent to the town of Princeton to the east, and is one of the reserves of the Upper Similkameen Indian Band, whose head offices are in Hedley.\n\nPrinceton was formerly served by the Great Northern Railway and the Kettle Valley railway, neither of which still have tracks within the Similkameen Valley. Today princeton is accessible exclusively by road and air. On land, it is located at the junction of two highways and two major regional roads: Highway 5A to Merritt, Highway 3 to Hope and Osoyoos, as well as Coalmont Road to Coalmont and Tulameen, and the Princeton-Summerland Road.\n\nPublic transportation is provided by the South Okanagan-Similkameen Transit System based out of Penticton, with three buses weekly along the Coalmont-Penticton Corridor, with connections to scheduled BC Transit services in Penticton to Kelowna and other communities. A BC Transit Health Connections service is also available. Until June 1, 2018, Greyhound Canada operated buses along the Hope-Princeton highway to Penticton and further to the Alberta border.\n\nPrinceton has one airport, the Princeton Aerodrome. The airport is not serviced by any scheduled carriers and has extremely limited facilities. It was formerly home to an Air Cadets gliding program. The nearest airport with regional scheduled passenger services is Penticton Regional Airport, and the nearest airport with scheduled passenger service to both regional and international destinations is Kelowna International Airport.\n\nThe Princeton and District Museum and Archives on Vermilion Avenue houses the Joe Pollard fossil collection. The collection also includes an early 1900s stagecoach, a 1934 fire engine, local First Nations artifacts, a collection of local newspapers, a collection of local butterflies, exhibits about pioneer life, a livery stable, and an old firehouse.\nThe Museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, AABC, BCMA, BCHF and Virtual Museum of Canada.\nAfter their marriage in 1868, John and Susan Louisa Moir Allison moved to the Similkameen Valley, becoming the first non-Aboriginal settlers to live there. The couple, aided by Mr Allison's knowledge of Chinook Jargon, a trade language, became close with nearby Aboriginal populations. There, the two produced 14 children. In the Valley, Mrs. Allison had what she described as her happiest days, traversing nearby mountains on horseback and establishing relationships with nearby First Nations. She claimed to have sighted Ogopogo, a cryptid lake monster similar to the Loch Ness Monster in Okanagan Lake.\n\nIn 1876, Mr. Allison was appointed a Justice of the Peace and became the first Gold Commissioner of the newly created Similkameen Mining District. In 1891, an ethnographic paper written by Mrs Allison on the Similkameen was published by the British Association for the Advancement of Science, and another was published in the Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. In 1900 she published a poem about an Aboriginal chief.\n\nMr Allison died in 1897 and was buried at a site overlooking the Similkameen River near a landmark named \"Castle Rock\". Mrs Allison moved to Vancouver in 1928 where she died on February 1, 1937, aged 92. In 2010 the Government of Canada designated Susan Louisa Moir Allison as a person of national historic significance.\n\nPrinceton has a cold semi-arid climate (Köppen \"BSk\"). It is located just east of the Cascade mountains, giving the town a rain shadow effect whereby the community receives very little precipitation relative to areas on the windward side of the Cascade mountains. Princeton is one of the sunniest places in British Columbia with 2088 hours of sunshine annually. The 323 days per year with measurable sunshine, defined by having a minimum of 6 minutes of sunshine in a day, is the most in the province, and one of the highest in Canada. The 29.4 days with measurable sunshine in March is the highest in the country. \n\nOn the eastern outskirts of Princeton are the ruins of East Princeton. Conceived in 1910 as a \"Great Cement City\", the area is now a resort known as \"Princeton Castle\".\n\nFour years, a million dollars, hundreds of thousands of hours of work by engineers, carpenters, and masons (several of whom died in accidents) went into constructing a cement plant. The project came to an abrupt halt in 1914, for reasons not entirely clear: possibly lack of limestone or (due to World War I) coal.\n\nPrinceton is part of School District #58, and has two elementary schools (John Allison for grades K-3 and Vermilion Forks for grades 4-7), a secondary school (for grades 8-12) and The Bridge, a continuing education school (grades 8-12 and adult learners that have not completed high school).\n\nPrinceton has a hospital and long-term care center (Princeton General Hospital and Ridgewood Lodge), two Seniors' Clubs and several seniors' and handicapped housing facilities, and a variety of drug and alcohol counseling services, an adult mental care drop-in center, a program for women in abusive relationships, and numerous other social service institutions.\n\nIn 1987, Burt Reynolds starred in the film \"Malone\", which was filmed mainly in neighbouring Hedley, British Columbia, but included key scenes in downtown Princeton and the surrounding area. Also partly shot in the area was Sean Penn's 2001 film \"The Pledge\", starring Jack Nicholson, which was also filmed in Lytton and Lillooet.\n\nRecreational opportunities exist year round in Princeton and the surrounding area including: biking, skiing, fishing, camping, hunting and hiking. The Kettle Valley Railway, a popular trail for cyclists passes through the town. The China Ridge Ski area on Bear Mountain offers classic cross country ski trails for all skill levels and are well maintained. Manning Park is a nearby provincial park with both summer and winter recreation options, including the Gibson Pass Ski Area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829759", "title": "Warne Marsh", "text": "Warne Marsh\n\nWarne Marion Marsh (October 26, 1927 – December 18, 1987) was an American tenor saxophonist. Born in Los Angeles, his playing first came to prominence in the 1950s as a protégé of pianist Lennie Tristano and earned attention in the 1970s as a member of Supersax.\n\nMarsh came from an affluent artistic background: his father was Hollywood cinematographer Oliver T. Marsh (1892–1941), and his mother Elizabeth was a violinist. He was the nephew of actresses Mae Marsh and Marguerite Marsh and film editor Frances Marsh.\n\nHe was tutored by Lennie Tristano. Marsh was often recorded in the company of other Cool School musicians, and remained one of the most faithful to the Tristano philosophy of improvisation – the faith in the purity of the long line, the avoidance of licks and emotional chain-pulling, the concentration on endlessly mining the same small body of jazz standards. While Marsh was a generally cool-toned player, the critic Scott Yanow notes that Marsh played with \"more fire than one would expect\" in certain contexts.\n\nMarsh's rhythmically subtle lines are immediately recognizable. He has been called by Anthony Braxton \"the greatest vertical improviser\" (i.e., improvising that emphasizes harmony/chords more than melody). In the 1970s, he gained renewed exposure as a member of Supersax, a large ensemble which played orchestral arrangements of Charlie Parker solos. Marsh also recorded one of his most celebrated albums, \"All Music\", with the Supersax rhythm section during this period.\n\nMarsh died onstage at the Los Angeles club Donte's in 1987, in the middle of playing the tune \"Out of Nowhere\". He left a widow, Geraldyne Marsh, and two sons, K.C. Marsh and Jason Marsh. He is interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California.\n\nThough he remains something of a cult figure among jazz fans and musicians, his influence has grown since his death; younger players such as Mark Turner have borrowed from his music as a way of counterbalancing the pervasive influence of John Coltrane. Marsh's discography remains somewhat scattered and elusive, as much of it was done for small labels, but more and more of his work has been issued on compact disc in recent years.\n\nA documentary is being made about him: \"Warne Marsh: An Improvised Life\", directed by his eldest son, K.C. Marsh.\n\n\nWith Elek Bacsik\nWith Chet Baker\nWith Bill Evans\nWith Clare Fischer\nWith Lee Konitz\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829766", "title": "USS McCalla", "text": "USS McCalla\n\nTwo ships of the United States Navy have been named USS \"McCalla\" for Bowman H. McCalla.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829776", "title": "Bexhill and Battle (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bexhill and Battle (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBexhill and Battle () is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Huw Merriman of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe main towns, forming its name, are the shingle-beach resort of Bexhill-on-Sea and the town of Battle which has a largely Georgian and Victorian core, the outlying fields of which hosted the 1066 Battle of Hastings and resulted in the building of Battle Abbey out of repentance and respect to the fallen. Numerous villages, farms and woodlands of the High Weald Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty come within the area.\n\nThe seat's first MP, Charles Wardle, served as a junior Home Office minister in the government of John Major; Wardle had the Conservative whip removed shortly before the 2001 general election. The seat was held by Gregory Barker from 2001 until 2015; Barker was a junior minister at the Department for Energy and Climate Change between the formation of the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition after the 2010 general election and the major government reshuffle of July 2014, when he resigned and announced his intention to retire from Parliament at the next general election. \n\nAt the 2015 general election, Huw Merriman was elected, who was re-elected in the 2017 general election. The closest it came to a non-Conservative victory was in 2001, when Barker, in the first of his three successful campaigns, was returned by a margin of 10,503 votes.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 57.7% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Rother wards of Ashburnham, Battle, Beckley and Peasmarsh, Bodiam and Ewhurst, Brede and Udimore, Burwash, Catsfield and Crowhurst, Central, Collington, Etchingham and Hurst Green, Northiam, Old Town, Sackville, St Mark's, St Michael's, St Stephen's, Salehurst, Sedlescombe and Whatlington, Sidley, Ticehurst, and Westfield, and the District of Wealden wards of Herstmonceux, Ninfield, and Pevensey and Westham.\n\n2010–present: The District of Rother wards of Battle Town, Central, Collington, Crowhurst, Darwell, Ewhurst and Sedlescombe, Kewhurst, Old Town, Rother Levels, Sackville, St Mark's, St Michael's, St Stephen's, Salehurst, Sidley, and Ticehurst and Etchingham, and the District of Wealden wards of Cross In Hand/Five Ashes, Heathfield East, Heathfield North and Central, Herstmonceux, Ninfield and Hooe with Wartling, and Pevensey and Westham.\n\nThe seat almost matches the district of Rother in East Sussex.\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829780", "title": "Bognor Regis and Littlehampton (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bognor Regis and Littlehampton (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBognor Regis and Littlehampton (Contemp. RP) /ˈbɒɡnə ɹʷiːd͡ʒɪs ænd lɪtl̩hæmptn̩/, /-æmtn̩/ is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Nick Gibb, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Arun wards of Aldwick East, Aldwick West, Bersted, Felpham East, Felpham West, Hotham, Littlehampton Beach, Littlehampton Central, Littlehampton Ham, Littlehampton River, Littlehampton Wick, Marine, Middleton on Sea, Orchard, Pagham, and Pevensey.\n\n2010–present: The District of Arun wards of Aldwick East, Aldwick West, Beach, Bersted, Brookfield, Felpham East, Felpham West, Ham, Hotham, Marine, Middleton-on-Sea, Orchard, Pagham and Rose Green, Pevensey, River, Wick with Toddington, and Yapton.\n\nThe constituency is elongated along the south coast of England. It includes the towns of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton.\n\nThe constituency has a diverse economy. Small-scale agriculture, manufacturing, and trades make up most of the local economy, supplemented by services and tourism.\n\nThe population of the constituency is a mixture of young families, supporting the constituency's sporting facilities, public services, golf courses and general domestic spending. People in retirement are also a notable demographic, who have moved to the coast from London and other British urban areas to live by the South Coast of England.\n\nThe proportion of social housing is lower than the UK average.\n\nThe vote share and majority for the Conservative MP, Nick Gibb, who won the first six general elections in this seat, has grown since 2001, to reach over 17,000 votes.\n\nAt the first three general elections, the Labour Party candidate was runner-up, notably denting Gibb's winning margin to 5,632 votes in 2001. In 2010, the Liberal Democrat candidate took second place, more than 4,000 votes ahead of Labour and 13,063 short of Gibb's total. Mirroring nationwide performance, the Lib Dem vote share fell in 2015, whilst the UKIP vote share rose in this constituency, becoming the runner-up, but 13,944 votes short of Gibb's tally.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 64.8% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum voted to Leave the European Union. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by MP Nick Gibb.\n\nIn 2017, Labour's candidate of 2015 was reselected to stand and took second place.\n\nThe year 2017 saw an independent candidate, Paul Sanderson, the chaplain of The Littlehampton Academy come within 1% of retaining his political deposit and ahead of the UKIP and Green candidates.\n\nGibb was re-elected for a seventh time in 2019, with an increased majority of 22,503 votes and a vote share of 63.5%. \n\nThe seat was created from the western, more populous part of the Arundel seat on its 1997 abolition. Before the latter's creation in 1974, Bognor Regis was part of the Chichester seat and Littlehampton part of the Arundel and Shoreham seat.\n\nSince its creation, the seat has been represented by Nick Gibb of the Conservative Party. Gibb had worked for the party for over ten years, and became an MP at his third attempt. After thirteen years in opposition, he joined David Cameron's coalition government after the 2010 general election, becoming Minister of State for School Standards, working under Education Secretary Michael Gove. He left the government in a 2012 reshuffle, being replaced by David Laws. He then returned to the same department, now run by Nicky Morgan, as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Childcare, Education and School Reform in 2014. The following year, he again took up his previous post, which he has now held under three Prime Ministers (Cameron, Theresa May and Boris Johnson) and five Education Secretaries (Gove, Morgan, Justine Greening, Damian Hinds and Gavin Williamson).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829784", "title": "Chatham and Aylesford (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Chatham and Aylesford (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nChatham and Aylesford is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament.\n\nLocal voters returned the Labour candidate in the first three elections to 2005 then the Conservative candidate in the four general elections up to and including 2019 (which two parties' candidates have polled second when they have not won the seat).\n\nThe greatest third party share of vote was 19.9% for the UK Independence Party candidate in 2015. A Liberal Democrat came third in the first four elections reaching a vote share of 15% in 1997.\n\nIn June 2016, an estimated 63.9% of local adults voting in the EU membership referendum chose to leave the European Union instead of to remain. This was matched in two January 2018 votes in Parliament by its MP.\n\n1997–2010: The City of Rochester-upon-Medway wards of Holcombe, Horsted, Lordswood, Luton, Walderslade, Wayfield, and Weedswood, and the Borough of Tonbridge and Malling wards of Aylesford, Blue Bell Hill, Burham, Eccles and Wouldham, Ditton, Larkfield North, Larkfield South, Snodland East, and Snodland West.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Medway wards of Chatham Central, Lordswood and Capstone, Luton and Wayfield, Princes Park, and Walderslade, and the Borough of Tonbridge and Malling wards of Aylesford, Blue Bell Hill and Walderslade, Burham, Eccles and Wouldham, Ditton, Larkfield North, Larkfield South, Snodland East, and Snodland West.\n\nAs its name suggests, the constituency stretches from the historic town of Chatham which sprang from Chatham Royal Dockyard to the historic village of Aylesford in Kent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829785", "title": "Crawley (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Crawley (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nCrawley is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Henry Smith of the Conservative Party.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Crawley, and the District of Mid Sussex wards of Balcombe, Copthorne and Worth, Crawley Down, Slaugham, and Turners Hill.\n\n1997–present: The Borough of Crawley.\n\nThe constituency covers the whole of the town and borough of Crawley in West Sussex which includes London Gatwick Airport. Crawley borders Horsham in the same county on all sides other than the north, where it borders a part of East Surrey.\n\nThe Boundary Commission analysed population increase and recommended that changes to the constituency be made for the 2010 general election so the seat is now coterminous with the borough.\n\nBefore the 1983 general election, Crawley had been part of the Horsham & Crawley, Horsham, and Horsham & Worthing constituencies at times. Due to the growth of Crawley, which was a small town, into a substantial new town in the 1960s and 70s, the Boundary Commission took the decision to separate it from Horsham in 1983 and create a new seat.\n\nLabour majorities in 1997 and 2001 on the size of majority yardstick, but not yet the longevity measure, suggested a safe seat. The seat saw the most knife-edge result in 2005: a 37-vote margin. Psephologists and editors have long identified the marginality of most of the largest new towns and outer satellite cities in Southern England as to those seats with a workforce across diverse sectors (e.g. Bristol, Exeter, Gloucester, Milton Keynes, Hemel Hempstead, Reading, Southampton, Portsmouth, Dover). Few communities in these seats are rooted in Victorian villa toryism nor in Labour's heartlands that for decades depended on heavy industry (the main coalfields, the Lancashire Mill Towns, the Potteries/Black Country, steelworking, dockworking and shipbuilding areas).\n\nIn the 2010 election Conservative, Smith, won the seat having twice failed, by 5,928 votes. He gained a not unprecedented (averaged two-party) swing of 6.3%. Smith's later majorities have been 6,526 in 2015; and 2,459 in 2017, elections where the Liberal Democrats, Scepanovic and Yousuf, along with the 2017 candidate for East Worthing and Shoreham in West Sussex lost their deposits by failing to attract 5% of the vote.\n\nThe Brexit Party announced Wayne Bayley as their candidate, but he was withdrawn as part of the UK-wide Brexit Party decision not to oppose sitting Conservative candidates. \n\nThe Green Party announced Richard Kail as their candidate, but he did not stand. UKIP also decided not to stand a candidate for the first time since 1997.\n\nThe Christian Peoples Alliance announced Katherine Mills as candidate, but she did not stand.\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general<br>elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829787", "title": "Clement Scott", "text": "Clement Scott\n\nClement William Scott (6 October 1841 – 25 June 1904) was an influential English theatre critic for the \"Daily Telegraph\" and other journals, and a playwright, lyricist, translator and travel writer, in the final decades of the 19th century. His style of criticism, acerbic, flowery and (perhaps most importantly) carried out on the first night of productions, set the standard for theatre reviewers through to today.\n\nScott accumulated enemies among theatre managers, actors and playwrights as years went on, picking quarrels with William Archer, Ibsen, George Bernard Shaw and others. After he gave a particularly ill-considered 1898 interview, in which he attacked the morals of theatre people, especially actresses, he was forced to retire as a theatre critic and his reputation and prospects suffered badly until, by the end of his life, he was impoverished.\n\nBorn the son of William Scott, the perpetual curate of Hoxton in north London, Scott converted to Roman Catholicism before his 21st birthday. Educated at Marlborough College, he became a civil servant, working in the War Office beginning in 1860.\n\nEncouraged to write by the humourist Tom Hood the younger, who also was a clerk in the War Office, Scott contributed to \"The Era\", \"Weekly Dispatch\", and to Hood's own paper, \"Fun\", where Scott and W. S. Gilbert were colleagues. Scott's interest in writing and the theatre led him to brief dalliance with the failed \"Victoria Review\".\n\nHe became the dramatic writer for \"The Sunday Times\" in 1863 but held the position for only two years because of the intemperance of his published opinions and his unpopular praise of the French theatre. In 1871, Scott began his nearly thirty years as a theatre critic with \"The Daily Telegraph\". He also contributed regularly to \"The Theatre\", a magazine that he founded, and wrote sentimental poetry and song lyrics (including \"Oh Promise Me\"), which were often published in the magazine \"Punch\" by his friend, the editor, F. C. Burnand. Scott continued to work at the War Office until 1879, when he finally decided to earn his living entirely by writing.\n\nAs well as criticism, Scott wrote plays, including \"The Vicarage\", \"The Cape Mail\", \"Anne Mié\", \"Odette\", and \"The Great Divorce Case\". He wrote several English adaptations of Victorien Sardou's plays, some of which were written in collaboration with B. C. Stephenson, such as \"Nos intimes\" (as \"Peril\") and \"Dora\" (1878, as \"Diplomacy\"). The latter was described by the theatrical paper \"The Era\" as \"the great dramatic hit of the season\". It also played with success at Wallack's Theatre in New York. Scott and Stephenson also wrote an English version of Halévy and Meilhac's libretto for Lecocq's operetta \"Le Petit Duc\" (1878). Their adaptation so pleased the composer that he volunteered to write some new music for the English production. For all of these, Scott adopted the pen name \"Saville Rowe\" (after Savile Row) to match Stephenson's pseudonym, \"Bolton Rowe\", another Mayfair street. The pieces with Stephenson were produced by the Bancrofts, the producers of T. W. Robertson's plays, which Scott admired. He also wrote accounts of holiday tours around the British Isles and abroad, becoming known for his florid style. Scott's travels also inspired his creative writing. Some sources say that after a tour of New Zealand, he wrote the tune to the \"Swiss Cradle Song\", later adapted as \"Now Is the Hour\" and as \"Haere Ra\", the Māori farewell song, which white New Zealanders \"mistakenly thought [to be] an old Maori folksong\". It is also used for the hymn \"Search Me, O God\", with lyrics by J. Edwin Orr. However, an Australian family has long claimed that the \"Clement Scott\" who wrote the tune is a pseudonym for a family member.\n\nIn 1883, the \"Daily Telegraph\" printed an article which Scott had written about a visit to the north Norfolk coast. He became enamoured of the district and gave it the name \"Poppyland\". His writing was responsible for members of the London theatre set visiting and investing in homes in the area. Ironically, he was unhappy at the result of his popularisation of this previously pristine area.\nScott married Isabel Busson du Maurier, the sister of George du Maurier, and the couple had four children. She died in 1890, and he remarried Constance Margarite Brandon, an American journalist and actress, in San Francisco. Scott's long-time wish to be elected a member of the famous literary gentlemen's club, the Garrick Club (to which Henry Irving, Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, among many other notable men belonged), was finally realised in 1892. After an ill-considered 1898 interview in \"Great Thoughts\", Scott was forced to retire as a theatre critic and moved to Biarritz to write \"The Drama of Yesterday and Today\". He then worked for a couple of years at the end of the century for the \"New York Herald\", later returning to London. In 1900, he founded \"The Free Lance, a Popular Society and Critical Journal\", for writers who worked by the job, which he edited.\n\nScott fell into illness and poverty in his last years and died at his residence in Woburn Square at the age of 62.\n\nScott's position on the \"Daily Telegraph\" and the support of its proprietor, J. M. Levy, allowed him to pioneer the essay-style review of drama, which came to replace the earlier bare notices. His column of notes and reviews became very popular throughout Britain, and later his own magazine, \"The Theatre\", achieved wide circulation. He wrote his theatre reviews immediately after he saw the opening night of a piece which, together with his short temper and his dislike of critic William Archer, the chief English supporter of Ibsen, tended to involve him often in controversies.\n\nScott played an important part in encouraging a more attentive attitude by theatre audiences. In his early days, it was not uncommon for audiences to be very boisterous and noisy, frequently booing and talking during productions, especially through the overture. He also insisted on first night reviews. It had been common for reviewers to wait a few days before writing about a production. Scott insisted that the paying audience on the first night should expect to see a fully fledged production, and not one where the leading characters did not know all their lines. Theatre managers disliked the opening night reviews when they felt that a new piece had not had time to settle down yet. On the other hand, Scott supported actor-managers of his time by providing them with translations of popular French plays and with his own plays.\nEarly in his career, he wrote approvingly of the \"cup and saucer\" realism movement, led by T. W. Robertson, whose plays were notable for treating contemporary British subjects in realistic settings. Later, he favoured the grand and spectacular type of London theatrical production which had developed with new types of theatre building, electric lighting and technologies allowed more and more adventurous staging. As time went on, he became strongly conservative and opposed to the new drama of Ibsen and Shaw, arguing that domestic intrigue, sexual situations and wordy philosophising were inappropriate for an evening at the theatre, and even harmful to society, especially young women. Scott especially became embroiled in legal claims through his outspoken criticism of various actors and actresses. His scathing attacks on Ibsen and Shaw became evident in their lack of journalistic neutrality.\n\nScott outraged the theatre community with an extraordinary attack on the morals of theatre people in general, and especially of actresses, in an interview that was published in the evangelical weekly \"Great Thoughts\" in 1898. He said that the theatre warps people's character and that it was impossible for a pure woman to be successful in a stage career, and that all leading actresses were immoral and could have achieved their success only by virtue of the extent of their \"compliance\". Even before the publication, the transcript of the interview was released to the press, and Scott immediately received a firestorm of condemnation. Although he apologised and recanted his remarks, he was barred from theatres, and the \"Daily Telegraph\" was forced to dismiss him. He soon retired and found his reputation and prospects much diminished. By the end of his life, however, he received a measure of forgiveness, and shortly before his death the theatre community held a generous benefit for him.\n\nHis papers are located in the library of Rochester University, New York State. Film maker John Madden (\"Shakespeare in Love\", \"Mrs. Brown\", \"Captain Corelli's Mandolin\") made his first feature film for the BBC, \"Poppyland\" (1985), around the story of Scott's visit to Poppyland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829790", "title": "Dartford (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Dartford (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nDartford is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Gareth Johnson of the Conservative Party. The constituency is currently the longest-valid 'bellwether' constituency in the country as the party of the winning candidate has gone on to form the government in every General Election since 1964. Candidates for the largest two parties nationally have polled first and second since 1923 in Dartford.\n\nThe area in the seat, remaining a combination of urban, suburban and a small rural population, has been gradually reduced through contribution to new seats, their county designation later being changed in 1965 to become part of the new county of Greater London, which adjoins. These seats are Bexley, created in 1945 and Erith & Crayford, created in 1955.\n\nThe seat was created under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. This Act added a net 18 seats, but its main purpose was to correct the over-representation of minor, often still old boroughs and depopulated county divisions. In their place were created new seats with a larger population. In Kent the Act finally abolished the Sandwich constituency, which sent two MPs until 1885. It also halved the representation of no fewer than four other historic towns. In contrast a seat for Dartford, the North-Western Division of Kent or North West Kent, was created.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the Dartford constituency was very much a bellwether. Dartford's results later shifted towards the left: in a by-election in 1938 and then general elections from 1951 to 1959, a Labour MP was elected against the national result. Since 1964, however, Dartford has alternated between Labour and the Conservatives in line with the national result, and thus has served as a bellwether again.\n\nThis was the first seat contested by future Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher (then Margaret Roberts), at the 1950 and 1951 general elections.\n\n1885–1918: The Sessional Division of Dartford, and part of the Sessional Division of Bromley.\n\n1918–1945: The Urban Districts of Bexley, Dartford, and Erith, and in the Rural District of Dartford the parishes of Crayford, Stone, and Swanscombe.\n\n1945–1955: The Boroughs of Dartford and Erith, and the Urban District of Crayford.\n\n1955–1974: The Borough of Dartford, the Urban District of Swanscombe, and the Rural District of Dartford.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Dartford, the Urban District of Swanscombe, and in the Rural District of Dartford the parishes of Darenth, Southfleet, Stone, Sutton-at-Hone, and Wilmington.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Dartford, and the District of Sevenoaks wards of Ash-cum-Ridley, Fawkham and Hartley, Horton Kirby, and Longfield.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Dartford, and the District of Sevenoaks wards of Fawkham and Hartley, and Horton Kirby.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Dartford, and the District of Sevenoaks ward of Hartley and Hodsoll Street.\n\nAs its name suggests, the main settlement in the constituency is the town of Dartford, but it also includes a number of other towns and villages, including Swanscombe, Longfield, Greenhithe and Wilmington. These all add up to create a diverse constituency which covers urban and rural areas.\n\nThe population of the constituency currently stands at around 90,000, around 8,000 of whom live in the borough of Sevenoaks, with the remainder living in the borough of Dartford. The constituency is on the border with the London Borough of Bexley, with which at one time it shared an MP.\n\nWorkless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.9% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 1951\" />\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1951\" />\n<section begin=\"General Election 1950\" />\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1950\" />\n\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829792", "title": "Gravesham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Gravesham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nGravesham is a constituency in Kent represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2005 by Adam Holloway, a Conservative.\n\nFrom its first MP in 1983 (a Conservative) until its 1997-2005 MP (of Labour) the winning candidate was from the winning party nationally. In 2005 Adam Holloway was one of 36 Conservative candidates to gain a seat from other parties and held the seat with an expanded majority in their much improved 2010 general election showing in which the party gained 100 MPs and had a net gain of 97.\n\nSince the constituency's creation, its boundaries have been co-terminous with those of the Borough of Gravesham. The largest town in the constituency is Gravesend.\n\nThis particular name of the seat was created in 1983 effectively as the new name for the Gravesend seat.\nThe constituency and its predecessor together was considered a bellwether seat: from World War I until 2005 with the exceptions of the General Elections in 1929 Election and 1951, its winner came from the winning party. Since the 2005 result conflicted with the UK outcome, the seat is regarded as having lost its bellwether status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829794", "title": "Gillingham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Gillingham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nGillingham was a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Borough of Gillingham, part of the Municipal Borough of Rochester, and the Municipal Borough of Chatham ward of St Mary.\n\n1950–1983: The Municipal Borough of Gillingham.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Gillingham, and the Borough of Swale ward of Hartlip and Upchurch.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Gillingham.\n\nThe constituency was based around the towns of Gillingham and Rainham, which at that time were in Kent.\n\nFollowing their review of parliamentary representation in Kent, the Boundary Commission for England abolished Gillingham, replacing it with the renamed constituency of Gillingham and Rainham.\n\n Cronin was supported by the Lower Deck Parliamentary Committee\n\n"}
{"id": "1829795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829795", "title": "Faversham and Mid Kent (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Faversham and Mid Kent (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nFaversham and Mid Kent is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. Since 2015, the seat has been represented by Helen Whately of the Conservative Party.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Swale wards of Abbey, Boughton & Courtenay, Davington Priory, East Downs, St Ann's, Teynham and Lynsted, and Watling, and the Borough of Maidstone wards of Bearsted, Boxley, Detling, Harrietsham and Lenham, Headcorn, Hollingbourne, Langley, Leeds, Park Wood, Shepway East, Shepway West, Sutton Valence, and Thurnham.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Swale wards of Abbey, Boughton and Courtenay, Davington Priory, East Downs, St Ann’s, and Watling, and the Borough of Maidstone wards of Bearsted, Boughton Monchelsea and Chart Sutton, Boxley, Detling and Thurnham, Downswood and Otham, Harrietsham and Lenham, Headcorn, Leeds, North Downs, Park Wood, Shepway North, Shepway South, and Sutton Valence and Langley.\n\nFaversham and Mid Kent covers sections of the Swale and Maidstone boroughs. The constituency includes the easternmost outlying residents of the county town, Maidstone. This caused minor confusion among a large minority of residents of the Maidstone electoral wards when the boundaries were first changed in 1997 as a constituency named Maidstone and The Weald was also created at the same time (largely replacing the former Maidstone constituency), but residents in the Shepway and Park Wood areas of the town found themselves in Faversham and Mid Kent instead.\n\nIn 1997, the Faversham and Mid Kent constituency was formed when the previous Faversham seat was abolished and split into Sittingbourne and Sheppey and the town of Faversham which was then merged with Mid Kent to form this constituency.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829797", "title": "Dover (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Dover (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nDover is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. \n\nFrom 2010, the MP was Charlie Elphicke, elected as a member of the Conservative Party. On 3 November 2017, Elphicke was suspended by the Conservative Party after \"serious allegations\" were made against him, and then sat as an Independent until 12 December 2018 when he had the Conservative Whip restored ahead of a party vote on a no-confidence motion against Theresa May. In July 2019, the whip was withdrawn again after he was charged by the Crown Prosecution Service with three counts of sexual assault against two women.. Charlie Elphicke stood down as an MP shortly before the 2019 UK General Election, with his wife, Natalie Elphicke standing as the Conservative Party candidate in his place. Natalie Elphicke was elected as the MP for the Dover District during the 2019 UK General Election, increasing on her husband's majority.\nThe seat includes most of Dover District. It comprises the towns of Deal, Dover, Walmer and surrounding villages in a productive chalkland, long-cultivated area adjoining the Strait of Dover. Since 1983 it has excluded the northern part of the District in and around the historically important (Cinque Port) of Sandwich with its golf links and accessible shore, which was then transferred to the South Thanet seat.\n\nSince 1945 Dover has been a Labour/Conservative swing seat. In local elections, most of its rural villages and the two small towns favour the Conservative Party, whereas Dover favours the Labour Party, as well as the former mixed mining and agricultural villages in the local coal belt (East Kent coalfield), such as Aylesham. Labour's vote held on very solidly here in 2005, but the seat went Conservative in the 2010 election on a swing of 10.4% compared with a 4.9% swing nationally.\n\n1918–1950: The Boroughs of Dover and Deal, the Urban District of Walmer, and the Rural Districts of Dover and Eastry.\n\n1950–1983: The Boroughs of Dover, Deal, and Sandwich, the Rural District of Dover, and the Rural District of Eastry except the parishes included in the Isle of Thanet constituency.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Dover wards of Aylesham, Barton, Buckland, Capel-le-Ferne, Castle, Cornilo, Eastry, Eythorne, Lower Walmer, Lydden and Temple Ewell, Maxton and Elms Vale, Middle Deal, Mill Hill, Mongeham, Noninstone, North Deal, Pineham, Priory, Ringwould, River, St Margaret's-at-Cliffe, St Radigund's, Shepherdswell with Coldred, Tower Hamlets, Town and Pier, and Upper Walmer.\n\n2010–present: The District of Dover wards of Aylesham, Buckland, Capel-le-Ferne, Castle, Eastry, Eythorne and Shepherdswell, Lydden and Temple Ewell, Maxton, Elms Vale and Priory, Middle Deal and Sholden, Mill Hill, North Deal, Ringwould, River, St Margaret's-at-Cliffe, St Radigund's, Tower Hamlets, Town and Pier, Walmer, and Whitfield.\n\n\"No parliament called between 1629 and 1640\"\n\n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829798", "title": "Esher and Walton (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Esher and Walton (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEsher and Walton () is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. It is currently represented by Dominic Raab who is the current Foreign Secretary and First Secretary of State. He was previously the Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union from July 2018 until he resigned in November 2018. \n\nThe current MP is Dominic Raab of the Conservative Party who is currently First Secretary of State and Foreign Secretary.\n\nThe constituency is in the north of Surrey in the affluent London commuter belt. It is partly rural, with heathland and reservoirs, as well as towns such as Esher and Walton-on-Thames, and lower density Cobham, Claygate and Molesey and the villages of Oxshott, Thames Ditton and Hinchley Wood. The constituency occupies all but the far west of the Borough of Elmbridge. A majority of its housing is on private planned estates. The South Western Main Line passes through the middle of the seat, with fast trains to central London. The constituency has low unemployment and has traditionally been regarded as one of the Conservative Party's safest seats in the UK. The area of the seat includes the last non-tidal section of the River Thames, wooded Esher Commons, the River Mole and Sandown Park racecourse.\n\nSince the constituency's creation in 1997 it has consisted of the Borough of Elmbridge wards of Claygate, Cobham and Downside, Cobham Fairmile, Esher, Hersham North, Hersham South, Hinchley Wood, Long Ditton, Molesey East, Molesey North, Molesey South, Oxshott and Stoke D'Abernon, Thames Ditton, Walton Ambleside, Walton Central, Walton North, Walton South, and Weston Green.\n\nIan Taylor held the seat from 1997 to 2010, having held the previous Esher seat from 1987. Taylor stood down at the 2010 election, and Dominic Raab was elected as the new Conservative MP for this seat.\n\nThe last time a component of this area voted for an MP who was not Conservative was in 1906, when a Liberal MP served the four-year term to 1910 for Chertsey, representing the Walton-on-Thames part of the current seat.\n\nIn the 2019 general election, 60 seats, including this seat, were written into the Remain Alliance, an agreement between the Liberal Democrats, the Green Party and Plaid Cymru not to vie against one another in those seats. These were parties opposed to Britain's departure from the European Union. In consequence, Laura Harmour, who had been lined up to fight the seat for the Green Party, did not stand. Axel Thill, the candidate selected for the Brexit Party, was one of those withdrawn by party leader Nigel Farage before nominations closed, when Farage decided not to field candidates in Conservative-held seats. This was done to avoid the potential for pro-Remain parties winning seats and holding a People's Vote on Brexit.\n\nThe seat, long considered safe for the Conservatives, was heavily targeted by the Liberal Democrats, particularly because the incumbent Conservative, Dominic Raab, had campaigned for a Leave vote in the EU referendum. This resulted in a large swing to the Liberal Democrats, reducing the seat's majority to make it a marginal for the first time since its creation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829803", "title": "Hastings and Rye (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hastings and Rye (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHastings and Rye is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Sally-Ann Hart of the Conservatives. From 2010 until 2019, it was represented by Amber Rudd. She served as Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, Minister for Women and Equalities, Home Secretary and Work and Pensions Secretary under the governments of David Cameron, Theresa May and Boris Johnson.\n\nSince 2001 (inclusive) election campaigns have resulted in a minimum of 35.1% of votes at each election consistently for the same two parties' choice for candidate, and the next-placed party's having fluctuated between 3.3% and 15.7% of the vote—such third-placed figures attained higher percentages in 1992 and 1997.\n\nThe result in 2017 was the 24th-closest nationally (of 650 seats), whereby 174 voters would have been capable of changing the outcome by their choice of candidate, the margin of votes being 346.\n\n\n\nAs its name suggests, the main settlements in the constituency are the seaside resort of Hastings and smaller nearby tourist town of Rye. The constituency also includes the Cinque Port of Winchelsea and the villages of Fairlight, Winchelsea Beach, Three Oaks, Guestling, Icklesham, Playden, Iden, Rye Harbour, East Guldeford, Camber, and Pett.\n\nThe constituency is set in a relatively isolated part of the southeast from the railways perspective and so does not enjoy some of the more general affluence of this part of the country. In the 2000 index of multiple deprivation a majority of wards fell within the bottom half of rankings so it can arguably be considered a deprived area. Hastings has some light industry, while Rye has a small port, which includes hire and repair activities for leisure vessels and fishing. Hastings is mostly Labour-voting, whereas Rye and the rest of the areas from Rother council are Conservative.\n\nProperty prices in the villages are however rising and are in affluent areas, unlike residential estates in the towns. Three Oaks does enjoy a nearby train station for its residents, which has services allowing connecting services to London.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1983 by combining most of Hastings with a small part of Rye. The Conservative MP for Hastings since 1970, Kenneth Warren, won the new seat.. Warren held Hastings and Rye until he chose to retire in 1992; during this period its large majorities suggested it was a Conservative safe seat, with the Liberal Party (now the Liberal Democrats) regularly coming second. Jacqui Lait won the seat on Warren's retirement, but in 1997 the Labour candidate Michael Foster narrowly defeated Lait, becoming the second-least expected (on swing) Labour MP in the landslide of that year and since 2001 setting a pattern that suggests the seat is a two-way Labour-Conservative marginal. Foster held the seat, again with slim majorities over Conservatives, in 2001 and 2005, but lost it to Conservative Amber Rudd in 2010. Rudd was re-elected with an increased majority in 2015.\n\nIn the 2017 general election, the Green Party declined to contest the seat and instead called on its supporters to back the Labour candidate. Rudd held the seat with a slim majority of 346.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829805", "title": "Horsham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Horsham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHorsham is a constituency centred on the satellite town to London, its rural district and part of another rural district in West Sussex represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament between 1997 and 2015 by Francis Maude, and since 2015 by Jeremy Quin, both of the Conservative Party.\n1885–1918: The Sessional Divisions of Horsham, Midhurst, and Petworth, and the civil parish of Crawley.\n\n1945–1950: The Urban Districts of Horsham, Shoreham-by-Sea, and Southwick, and the Rural Districts of Chanctonbury and Horsham.\n\n1950–1974: The Urban District of Horsham, and the Rural Districts of Horsham, Midhurst, and Petworth.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Horsham.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Horsham wards of Billingshurst, Broadbridge Heath, Cowfold, Denne, Forest, Holbrook, Itchingfield and Shipley, Nuthurst, Riverside, Roffey North, Rudgwick, Rusper, Slinfold, Southwater, Trafalgar, and Warnham, the District of Mid Sussex wards of Balcombe, Copthorne and Worth, Crawley Down, Slaugham, and Turners Hill, and the District of Chichester wards of Plaistow and Wisborough Green.\n\n2010–present: The District of Horsham wards of Billingshurst and Shipley, Broadbridge Heath, Denne, Forest, Holbrook East, Holbrook West, Horsham Park, Itchingfield, Slinfold and Warnham, Nuthurst, Roffey North, Roffey South, Rudgwick, Rusper and Colgate, Southwater, and Trafalgar, and the District of Mid Sussex wards of Ardingly and Balcombe, Copthorne and Worth, and Crawley Down and Turners Hill.\n\nThe constituency is located in a northern part of West Sussex, bordering the constituencies of Arundel and South Downs, Mid Sussex. It is centred slightly east of the town of Horsham and is rectangular with the exception of a noticeable gap formed by the smaller constituency of Crawley.\n\nThe constituency (including its brief larger versions under other names) has been represented by members of the Conservative Party since 1880, making it the longest held Conservative seat and not normally with marginal majorities making it a safe seat, though just outside the top twenty Conservative seats sorted by majority.\n\nHorsham has existed as a constituency for three distinct periods. It first sent members to Parliament in 1295. However, the constituency was abolished in 1918 to make way for Horsham and Worthing. In 1945 the constituency was recreated, until 1974 when Horsham and Crawley was created. In 1983 the constituency of Horsham was again created and has existed since.\n\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\n = \"N/A\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829807", "title": "Hove (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Hove (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHove is a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Labour's Peter Kyle.\n\n1950–1983: The County Borough of Hove, and the Urban District of Portslade-by-Sea.\n\n1983–2010: The Borough of Hove.\n\n2010–present: The City of Brighton and Hove wards of Brunswick and Adelaide, Central Hove, Goldsmid, Hangleton and Knoll, Hove Park, North Portslade, South Portslade, Westbourne, and Wish.\n\nThe constituency covers Hove and Portslade in the city of Brighton and Hove.\n\nThe settlement of Hove is an economically active seaside resort which is both a commuter town and centred in an area of high local employment, stretching from Portsmouth to London Gatwick Airport. The seat acted as a bellwether of the national result between 1979 and 2015.\n\nIt was not until the 1950 general election, when major boundary changes occurred in Brighton, that Hove acquired a parliamentary seat of its own, having previously been in the former two-seat Brighton constituency. Hove was a Conservative stronghold until the 1997 general election, when the Labour Party saw a landslide parliamentary victory and with it, like in Greater London, wide success on the developed East Sussex coast.\n\nLabour retained the seat, though with narrow majorities, at the 2001 and 2005 general elections. The Liberal Democrats including their two predecessor parties amassed their largest share of the vote in 2010 at 22.6% of the vote. Mike Weatherley, a Conservative, regained the seat at the 2010 general election. Weatherley stood down after one term, and the 2015 election saw Peter Kyle regain the seat for Labour on a 3.1% swing. The 2015 result gave the seat the 14th-smallest majority of Labour's 232 seats by percentage of majority. \nKyle was reelected in 2017 by a margin of 32.6%, a 15.1% swing to Labour; this was not only the biggest margin Labour had ever won Hove by, but the largest margin any MP for Hove had won since 1987. The Conservative Party polled its lowest number of votes since 2005 and recorded their lowest percentage of the vote (31.6%) in the constituency since its creation. Turnout at the 2017 general election was 77.6%, the highest turnout in the constituency at a General Election since its creation in 1950.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829808", "title": "Torwa dynasty", "text": "Torwa dynasty\n\nThe Tolwa dynasty was the ruling family of the Butua kingdom that arose from the collapse of Great Zimbabwe in the sixteenth and seventeenth century, founded perhaps by the legendary Dlembeu.\n\nThe Tolwa dynasty of the BakaLanga people based itself at the stone city of Khami from 1450 to 1683. Cattle and gold brought prosperity. The new culture at Khami developed both the stone building techniques and the pottery styles found at Great Zimbabwe. Masons continued to refine Great Zimbabwe’s tradition of building precise stone walls.\n\nAt Khami several artefacts are found, such as ritual drinking pots, iron and bronze weapons, copper objects and ivory divining pieces. Artifacts from Europe and China are reminders that Khami was once a trade centre.\n\nDuring this period the first Europeans arrived. The first known European visitor was Antonio Fernandes, a Portuguese \"degredado\" (convict exile) serving his term in Sofala, who entered the Zimbabwean plateau in 1513.\n\nThere had always been an Arab influence in the region, particularly through trade, but this conflicted with Portuguese commercial interests and religion. The fall of the Tolwa state linked to the coming of the Mutapa people from the north and to the Nguni incursions from the south.\n\nIn the 1670s a new power arose on the Zimbabwean plateau led by a military ruler called the Changamire. His army of followers, known as the Lozwi, overthrew the Tolwa dynasty, drove the Portuguese from the Zimbabwean plateau in 1693, and established the Rozwi Empire (also called Mambo).\n\nZimbabwe<br>\nDynasty\n\n"}
{"id": "1829809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829809", "title": "Zlot (currency)", "text": "Zlot (currency)\n\nThe zlot was a currency used in both medieval and modern times in Eastern Europe. It was widely used in Poland, which now uses the złoty. It was also used in the Ottoman Empire, Russia, Moldavia, Wallachia and Transylvania. It was used as an exchange currency by the merchants who passed through these countries and was recognized by the Tartars who demanded their tributes in zlot. It is a Slavic word.\n\nThe word could be roughly translated as 'gold coin.'\n"}
{"id": "1829811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829811", "title": "Mole Valley (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Mole Valley (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMole Valley is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Sir Paul Beresford, a Conservative.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Mole Valley, and the Borough of Guildford ward of Tillingbourne.\n\n1997–present: The District of Mole Valley wards of Beare Green, Bookham North, Bookham South, Box Hill and Headley, Brockham, Betchworth and Buckland, Capel, Leigh and Newdigate, Charlwood, Dorking North, Dorking South, Fetcham East, Fetcham West, Holmwoods, Leatherhead North, Leatherhead South, Leith Hill, Mickleham, Westhumble and Pixham, Okewood, and Westcott, and the Borough of Guildford wards of Clandon and Horsley, Effingham, Lovelace, Send, and Tillingbourne.\n\nThe constituency is larger than the Mole Valley district in Surrey as it includes five wards in the east of the Borough of Guildford, three of which are nearer to Woking than to Dorking. The largest town in the constituency is Dorking, second largest is Leatherhead and there are many rural and semi-rural villages, generally within one hour's reach of London so properly classed as part of the London Commuter Belt.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1983; much of the same area was covered by the Dorking constituency which preceded it. It is a Conservative safe seat in terms of length of party tenure and great size of its majorities, It has a majority adult demographic of affluent middle-class families living in commuter towns and villages speedily connected to business parks by road and central London by rail, it was one of a few seats to return a new candidate as Conservative MP who won a majority in excess of 10,000 in the 1997 Labour landslide; the main opposition since 1983 has been the Liberal Democrats and their largest predecessor party, the Liberal Party.\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829813", "title": "Thurrock (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Thurrock (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nThurrock is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Jackie Doyle-Price, a Conservative.\n\nHistory of boundaries\n\nThe seat was created from South East Essex as a result of the interim redistribution carried out for the 1945 general election. It remained unchanged until the redistribution following the reorganisation of local authorities under the Local Government Act 1972 (not coming into force until the 1983 general election), when it lost northern parts to the new constituency of Billericay. There was a small change for the 2010 general election, when East Tilbury was included in the new constituency of South Basildon and East Thurrock.\n\n\nAll campaigns since the seat's 1945 inception have resulted in a minimum of 26.8% of votes at each election for the main two parties, with Labour or the Conservatives alternating between first and second place. The third-placed party's share of the vote has fluctuated between 31.7% and 20.1% of the vote for UKIP and between 8.1% and 21.7 in the case of the Liberal Democrats and that party's predecessors. The seat attracted two candidates in 1959 and seven in 2015.\n\nThurrock was for 38 years from and including 1945 a large-majority Labour seat in parliamentary elections. The post-Falklands War election in 1983 gave a majority of less than 4% of the vote to a recently-split Labour Party (the breakaway faction, the SDP, came third). A Conservative gained Thurrock in 1987 with a small majority. In 1992, it was regained by a Labour candidate, Andrew MacKinlay. During his tenure as MP, MacKinlay was criticised for his questioning technique used on weapons expert Dr. David Kelly.\n\nIn the 2010 general election, a Conservative gained the seat, with Jackie Doyle-Price being elected as the MP on a majority of 92 votes, the third most marginal in that election. The 2015 result gave the seat the 8th most marginal majority of the Conservative Party's 331 seats by percentage of majority. In that 2015 election fewer than 1,000 votes separated the top three parties: Conservative, Labour and UKIP. The seat has had bellwether outcome status since 1997.\n\nIn 2017, the seat was number 1 on UKIP's 2017 target list, the party only needing a 0.98% swing to win the seat from third place if the previous result were repeated. The constituency was also at number 7 on Labour's target list, with a 0.54% swing needed for their candidate to win the seat. In the event, the swing to Labour was around 0.2% and Doyle-Price held the seat by a mere 345 votes, making it the 26th-closest nationally (of 650 seats). This was also the third consecutive occasion that Thurrock had been held or won very narrowly.\n\nDr Oonagh McDonald was Opposition Spokesman on Defence from 1981–1983, and then Opposition Spokesman on Treasury and Economic Affairs from 1983–1987.\n\n1945–1983: The Urban District of Thurrock.\n\nThe House of Commons (Redistribution of Seats) Act 1944 set up Boundaries Commissions to carry out periodic reviews of the distribution of parliamentary constituencies. It also authorised an initial review to subdivide abnormally large constituencies in time for the 1945 election. This was implemented by the Redistribution of Seats Order 1945 under which South East Essex was divided into two constituencies. As a consequence, the new Thurrock Division of Essex was formed, comprising the Urban District of Thurrock (created largely from amalgamating the Urban Districts of Grays Thurrock and Tilbury and the Rural District of Orsett).\n\n1983–2010: The Borough of Thurrock wards of Aveley, Belhus, Chadwell St Mary, East Tilbury, Grays Thurrock North, Grays Thurrock Town, Little Thurrock, Ockendon, Stifford, Tilbury, and West Thurrock.\n\nNorthern areas transferred to the new County Constituency of Billericay.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Thurrock wards of Aveley and Uplands, Belhus, Chadwell St Mary, Chafford and North Stifford, Grays Riverside, Grays Thurrock, Little Thurrock Blackshots, Little Thurrock Rectory, Ockendon, South Chafford, Stifford Clays, Tilbury Riverside and Thurrock Park, Tilbury St Chads, West Thurrock, and South Stifford.\n\nFollowing a redistribution of local authority wards, East Tilbury was transferred to the new County Constituency of South Basildon and East Thurrock.\n\nFollowing the 2019 General Election, Thurrock was held by the Conservatives with a majority of nearly 11,500 votes, making it a safe Conservative seat. This was a significant increase over 2017 when the Conservatives held the seat by just over 300 votes, when it was a marginal seat between the Conservatives and Labour. This industrial Essex seat, east of London, includes the towns of Grays, Tilbury and Purfleet and 18 miles of the north bank of the Thames.\n\nHistorically known for quarrying and heavy industry, it is now a retail destination thanks to the Lakeside shopping centre. Retail and distribution are big employers, while Tilbury Power Station has closed and Coryton oil refinery is being redeveloped as a business park. Tilbury is also London's major port, handling millions of tonnes of cargo a year and is a major cruise ship terminal.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 higher than the national average of 3.8%, at 4.8% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\". The regional average for the Eastern England region was considerably lower, at 3.2% of the population.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829814", "title": "South Thanet (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "South Thanet (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSouth Thanet is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK parliament since 2015 by Craig Mackinlay MP, a Conservative.\n\nTourism is an important economic activity with entertainment and beaches, particularly at Broadstairs. The constituency also includes part of the Stour Valley Walk, which passes through Sandwich on its way to Canterbury and beyond. There are picturesque villages with oast houses. The amount of fishing and coastal trade is much reduced relative to the 19th century, and is small compared to many other British ports. The seat has a higher proportion of retired people than the national average and incomes tend to be clustered around the national mean. Economic developments have included the nearby Thanet Offshore Wind Project as well as commercial, recreational and tourism activities. Farming, trades, and Ramsgate harbour provide much of the employment. Pharmaceuticals received a blow when Pfizer withdrew from the area. The unemployed claimant count, at 5.4%, was the highest of the South East's 84 constituencies at the end of 2010, and greater than the national average of 3.8%. Since its creation in 1983 the seat has been a bellwether. In the most recent 2019 European Parliament Elections the newly formed Brexit Party won an estimated 46.73% share of the 26,295 votes cast in South Thanet.\n\nIn 2016 an investigation by \"Channel 4 News\" revealed that the Conservative Party had spent many thousands of pounds centrally on battlebuses to transport activists, and hotel accommodation for the activists, who went to campaign in marginal constituencies, including South Thanet. The expenditure on the buses was declared by the Conservative Party on its national declaration of \"Campaign Spending\", but in some cases the hotel accommodation was not declared at all as election spending when it should have been. In addition, there is controversy about whether the expenditure, both on the buses and the accommodation, should have been declared on the declarations of expenditure for the constituency made by each candidate's election agent. Kent Police began an investigation into the spending returns of Craig Mackinlay following the Channel 4 report.\n\nIn a court case on 1 June 2016, brought against Mackinlay and his election agent Nathan Gray, District Judge Barron granted more time for investigation saying \"In this case, the allegations are far-reaching and the consequences of a conviction would be of a local and national significance with the potential for election results being declared void.\"\n\nOn 14 March 2017, it was reported that Mackinlay had been interviewed under caution by officers investigating the allegations. On 2 June 2017, six days before the 2017 general election, Mackinlay and two Conservative party officials were charged by the Crown Prosecution Service with offences under the Representation of the People Act 1983. They were due to appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court on 4 July 2017.\n\nOn 9 January 2019, Mackinlay was cleared of election expenses fraud. One of the other defendants, Marion Little, was found guilty of two charges.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Thanet wards of Beacon Road, Bradstowe, Central Eastcliff, Central Westcliff, Kingsgate, Minster Parish, Newington, Northwood, Pierremont, St Lawrence, St Peter's, Sir Moses Montefiore, Southwood, and Upton, and the District of Dover wards of Ash, Little Stour, Sandwich, Woodnesborough with Staple, and Worth.\n\n2010–present: The District of Thanet wards of Beacon Road, Bradstowe, Central Harbour, Cliffsend and Pegwell, Cliftonville East, Cliftonville West, Eastcliff, Kingsgate, Nethercourt, Newington, Northwood, St Peter's, Sir Moses Montefiore, and Viking, and the District of Dover wards of Little Stour and Ashstone, and Sandwich.\n\nSouth Thanet consists of the southern and eastern part of Thanet district (the towns of Ramsgate and Broadstairs, the Cliftonville area of Margate and the village of Cliffsend) together with the northern part of Dover district, comprising the ancient Cinque Port of Sandwich and surrounding villages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829815", "title": "Medway (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Medway (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMedway was a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom between 1983 and 2010. A previous constituency of the same name existed from 1885 to 1918.\n\nThe Mid or Medway Division of Kent was created by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. It comprised a rural area\nconsisting of the petty sessional divisions of Bearstead, Rochester and part of Malling PSD, but did not include the Medway Towns which were comprised in the parliamentary boroughs of Chatham and Rochester. It also surrounded, but did not include the town of Maidstone. It comprised these parishes:\n\n\n\nThe Rochester seat is an old one, going back to the 16th century, but it saw many changes in the 20th century. In 1918 it was split between Chatham and Gillingham. The Chatham seat became Rochester and Chatham in 1950, and then Medway in 1983.\n\nThe constituency was revived in 1983 by Parliament's acceptance of a Boundary Commission national review, and was defined as comprising thirteen wards of the then City of Rochester upon Medway: All Saints, Cuxton and Halling, Earl, Frindsbury, Frindsbury Extra, Hoo St. Werburgh, Rede Court, St. Margarets and Borstal, Temple Farm, Thames Side, Town, Troy Town and Warren Wood.\n\nBoundaries were not changed at the next redistribution that followed the Fourth Review for the 1997 election.\n\nConveniently but somewhat confusingly 1998 Rochester upon Medway merged with the neighbouring Borough of Gillingham to form the larger unitary Borough of Medway. The Medway constituency covered only part of the unitary authority: some towns in the borough of Medway, such as Gillingham (Gillingham) or Chatham see (Chatham and Aylesford) had and retain their own constituency. Because of this, the name of the seat caused much confusion leading to its renaming in 2010.\n\nFollowing the boundary review of parliamentary representation in Kent between 2000 and 2008, the Boundary Commission for England renamed the Medway seat to Rochester and Strood. This is because the Commission agreed that the term \"Medway\" is now primarily used for the larger unitary authority.\n\nThe constituency consists of ten wards of the Borough of Medway: Cuxton and Halling, Peninsula, River, Rochester East, Rochester South and Horsted, Rochester West, Strood North, Strood Rural and Strood South.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n"}
{"id": "1829818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829818", "title": "Sittingbourne and Sheppey (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sittingbourne and Sheppey (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSittingbourne and Sheppey is a constituency represented in the House of Commons since 2010 by Gordon Henderson, a Conservative.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Swale wards of Borden, Eastern, Grove, Hartlip and Upchurch, Iwade and Lower Halstow, Kemsley, Milton Regis, Minster Cliffs, Murston, Newington, Queenborough and Halfway, Roman, Sheerness East, Sheerness West, Sheppey Central, West Downs, and Woodstock.\n\n2010–2015: The Borough of Swale wards of Borden, Chalkwell, Grove, Hartlip, Newington and Upchurch, Iwade and Lower Halstow, Kemsley, Leysdown and Warden, Milton Regis, Minster Cliffs, Murston, Queenborough and Halfway, Roman, St Michael's, Sheerness East, Sheerness West, Sheppey Central, Teynham and Lynsted, West Downs, and Woodstock.\n\n2015–present: The Borough of Swale wards of Bobbing, Iwade and Lower Halstow, Borden and Grove Park, Chalkwell, Hartlip, Newington and Upchurch, Homewood, Kemsley, Milton Regis, Minster Cliffs, Murston, Queenborough and Halfway, Roman, Sheerness, Sheppey Central, Sheppey East, Teynham and Lynsted, The Meads, West Downs, and Woodstock.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1997, mostly from the former seat of Faversham. It covers some of the district of Swale, including Sittingbourne and the Isle of Sheppey.\n\nThe constituency has been a bellwether of the national result since its creation in 1997. The seat came extremely close to losing this status in the 2005 general election, when Labour held the seat by just 79 votes after a recount, even though the sitting MP, Derek Wyatt, was expecting to lose.\n\nBoundary changes which came into effect for the 2010 general election suggest that the Conservatives would have won the seat in 2005 on the new boundaries, though the estimated notional Conservative majority is extremely small, so that it could have gone either way.\n\nThe unemployment claimant level in November 2012 was 4.5%, compared to the national average of 3.8%; in line with Cleethorpes, Thurrock, Hammersmith and Meriden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829819", "title": "Reigate (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Reigate (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nReigate is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Crispin Blunt of the Conservative Party.\n\n1885–1918: The Borough of Reigate, its Sessional Division, and those of Dorking and Godstone except Effingham, Mickleham, Caterham, Warlingham, Chelsham and Farleigh\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Reigate, the Urban District of Dorking, and the Rural Districts of Dorking and Reigate\n\n1950–1974: The Borough of Reigate, and the Rural District of Godstone\n1974–1983: The Borough of Reigate, and the Urban District of Banstead\n1983–1997: The Borough of Reigate and Banstead wards of Chipstead Hooley and Woodmansterne, Horley East, Horley West, Kingswood with Burgh Heath, Reigate Central, Reigate East, Reigate North, Reigate North Central, Reigate North East, Reigate South Central, Reigate South East, Reigate South West, Salfords and Sidlow, and Tadworth and Walton\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Reigate and Banstead wards of Banstead Village, Chipstead Hooley and Woodmansterne, Kingswood with Burgh Heath, Reigate Central, Reigate East, Reigate North, Reigate North Central, Reigate North East, Reigate South Central, Reigate South East, Reigate South West, Salfords and Sidlow, and Tadworth and Walton\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Reigate and Banstead wards of Banstead Village, Chipstead Hooley and Woodmansterne, Earlswood and Whitebushes, Kingswood with Burgh Heath, Meadvale and St John’s, Merstham, Preston, Redhill East, Redhill West, Reigate Central, Reigate Hill, Salfords and Sidlow, South Park and Woodhatch, and Tadworth and Walton\n\nThe seat is in Surrey bordering Greater London and is centered on the town of Reigate from which it takes its name. As shown by the map the constituency excludes most of the post town of Horley in the East Surrey seat and Banstead (including its progeny or neighbourhoods Nork, Preston and the Tattenhams) in the Epsom and Ewell seat but contains the rest of the Reigate and Banstead district.\n\nThis constituency was first created with the first election of Burgesses to Parliament in 1295, electing two members. It continued to elect two members until 1832 when its representation was reduced to one member by the Great Reform Act.\n\nIn 1868 the constituency was disenfranchised for corruption, but was revived in 1885 by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 when the East Surrey constituency was abolished. Since 1918 the seat has been held by a candidate in the Conservative Party with the exception of four months during which the anti-EU MP in 1997 before the election of that year joined the Referendum Party (UK). The Liberal Democrats including their two predecessor parties amassed their largest share of the vote in 2010. The largest opposition party changed from Labour to the Liberal Democrats in 2005 and 2010, then UKIP in 2015 and back to Labour in the 2017 general election.\n\nIn 1974, the seat saw major boundary changes which removed some of Eastern Surrey which was in the seat into the radically redesigned East Surrey seat and added the Banstead area to the seat. \n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation. George Gardiner changed party from the Conservative Party to the Referendum following his deselection by the local Conservative association.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nSomers-Cocks succeeded to the peerage, becoming 2nd Earl Somers and causing a by-election.\n\nHackblock's death caused a by-election.\n\nRawlinson was appointed a member of the Council of India, requiring a by-election\n\nMonson succeeded to the peerage, becoming Lord Monson and causing a by-election.\n\nJoseph Sydney Yorke's death caused a by-election.\n\nCharles Yorke resigned in order to contest a by-election at , causing a by-election. He was unsuccessful and stood again for Reigate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829822", "title": "Mid Sussex (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Mid Sussex (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMid Sussex is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament from 2019 by Mims Davies... She is currently a minister in the Department for Work and Pensions.\n\nThe constituency is in the north east of West Sussex bordering East Sussex, containing relatively small villages and the towns of East Grinstead, Haywards Heath and Burgess Hill, all of which have green buffers preventing them from being contiguous and rail connections to Brighton, London Gatwick Airport and the City of London. The motorway network is also close by, the M23 providing access to this, west of the main towns.\n\nIncome levels are on average considerably higher than the national average and levels of rented and social housing are below the national average, particularly levels seen in cities.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban Districts of Burgess Hill and Cuckfield, and the Rural District of Cuckfield.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Mid Sussex wards of Ardingly, Bolney, Burgess Hill Chanctonbury, Burgess Hill Franklands, Burgess Hill North, Burgess Hill St Andrews, Burgess Hill Town, Burgess Hill West, Clayton, Cuckfield, East Grinstead East, East Grinstead North, East Grinstead South, East Grinstead West, Haywards Heath Ashenground, Haywards Heath Bentswood, Haywards Heath Franklands, Haywards Heath Harlands, Haywards Heath Heath, Horsted Keynes, Hurstpierpoint, Keymer, Lindfield Rural, Lindfield Urban, and West Hoathly.\n\n1997–2010: The District of Mid Sussex wards of Ardingly, Burgess Hill Chanctonbury, Burgess Hill Franklands, Burgess Hill North, Burgess Hill St Andrews, Burgess Hill Town, Burgess Hill West, Cuckfield, East Grinstead East, East Grinstead North, East Grinstead South, East Grinstead West, Haywards Heath Ashenground, Haywards Heath Bentswood, Haywards Heath Franklands, Haywards Heath Harlands, Haywards Heath Heath, Horsted Keynes, Lindfield Rural, Lindfield Urban, and West Hoathly.\n\n2010–present: The District of Mid Sussex wards of Ashurst Wood, Bolney, Burgess Hill Dunstall, Burgess Hill Franklands, Burgess Hill Leylands, Burgess Hill Meeds, Burgess Hill St Andrews, Burgess Hill Victoria, Cuckfield, East Grinstead Ashplats, East Grinstead Baldwins, East Grinstead Herontye, East Grinstead Imberhorne, East Grinstead Town, Haywards Heath Ashenground, Haywards Heath Bentswood, Haywards Heath Franklands, Haywards Heath Heath, Haywards Heath Lucastes, High Weald, and Lindfield.\n\nThe constituency was created in 1974 from parts of the seats of Lewes and East Grinstead, and has undergone significant boundary changes at every periodical review that it has been around for. Prior to 1973, the local government district had actually been a part of East Sussex, but as a result of delayed implementation of the Local Government Act 1972, it was almost wholly moved into West Sussex.\n\nAt the 1983 general election, it gained some of the wards (including East Grinstead itself) previously contained in the East Grinstead constituency (which disappeared at that election, its last MP Geoffrey Johnson Smith contested and won the new seat of Wealden in East Sussex), and at the 1997 election, it gained many of the semi-rural wards with smaller communities between East Grinstead and Crawley.\n\nFrom its creation in 1983 to the present, it has been a Conservative seat, with the primary opposition until the 2015 election being the Liberal Democrats and their predecessors the Liberal Party. In 2015, there was a severe fall in Liberal Democrats support. Labour's candidate come second in the seat for the first time in its history. In 2017, Labour consolidated this lead at the 2017 General Election by gaining almost double the votes of the Liberal Democrats.\n\nIn the 2016 European Union referendum, Mid Sussex voted for the United Kingdom to remain a member of the European Union. Despite this, Soames called for MPs to back Theresa May's withdrawal agreement. However, he was one of the 21 Conservative rebels who voted to allow Parliament to vote to legislate to prevent a no deal Brexit on 3 September 2019, and subsequently became an independent, after the rebels had the Conservative whip removed. He then decided not to stand for re-election although he had the whip restored before dissolution.\n\n\n \n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1979 and 1983 general elections and thus calculation of the change in share of vote is not possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829824", "title": "North Thanet (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North Thanet (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth Thanet is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since its 1983 creation by Sir Roger Gale, a Conservative.\n\nNorth Thanet and South Thanet were created by a rearrangement of the former Thanet West and Thanet East constituencies in 1983, which in turn had been created in 1974 by the splitting of the single Isle of Thanet seat. Apart from 1997, when it was marginal, the seat has to date been a safe seat for the Conservative Party.\n\nThe third-placed opponent in the 1983 election, for Labour, was Cherie Blair whose husband Tony Blair, was Prime Minister between 1997 and 2007. He entered Parliament that same year, representing Sedgefield: the couple are said to have had a pact that whichever one of them became an MP first would be the one to pursue that career, and not the other. Cherie thus continued with her legal career whilst Tony was an MP.\n\nTourism forms an important economic activity with sandy beaches, particularly at Margate: among the main attractions, the seat has a small amount of fishing relative to the 19th century or major ports of North East and Scotland. It also has a slightly higher proportion of retired people than the national average and incomes tending to be clustered towards the national mean. Economic developments have included the Thanet Offshore Wind Project, as well as commercial, recreational and tourism activities. Manston Airport is now closed but is subject to competing development plans, including reopening the airport for freight terminal or alternatively as a mixed development business park. In unemployment terms the claimant count was third highest of the South East's 84 constituencies at the end of 2010.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Thanet wards of Birchington East, Birchington West, Cecil, Cliftonville, Dane Park, Ethelbert, Margate West, Marine, Northdown Park, Pier, Salmestone, Thanet Parishes, and Westgate-on-Sea, and the City of Canterbury wards of Herne, Heron, Reculver, and West Bay.\n\n2010–present: The District of Thanet wards of Birchington North, Birchington South, Dane Valley, Garlinge, Margate Central, Salmestone, Thanet Villages, Westbrook, and Westgate-on-Sea, and the City of Canterbury wards of Greenhill and Eddington, Herne and Broomfield, Heron, Marshside, Reculver, and West Bay.\n\nNorth Thanet consists of the northern and western parts of Thanet district (most of Margate, apart from the Cliftonville area), Westgate-on-Sea, Birchington-on-Sea, and several villages including Acol, St Nicholas-at-Wade, Minster, Monkton and Sarre) as well as the town of Herne Bay in the City of Canterbury district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829830", "title": "Alumbrados", "text": "Alumbrados\n\nThe alumbrados (, \"Illuminated\") was a term used to loosely describe practitioners of a mystical form of Christianity in Spain during the 15th-16th centuries. Some \"alumbrados\" were only mildly heterodox, but others held views that were clearly heretical, according to the contemporary rulers. Consequently, they were firmly repressed and became some of the early victims of the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nThe historian Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo found the name as early as 1492 (in the form \"aluminados\", 1498), and traced the group to a Gnostic origin. He thought their views were promoted in Spain through influences from Italy.\n\nThe \"alumbrados\" held that the human soul can reach such a degree of perfection that it can even in the present life contemplate the essence of God and comprehend the mystery of the Trinity. All external worship, they declared, is superfluous, the reception of the sacraments useless, and sin impossible in this state of complete union with God. Persons in this state of impeccability could indulge their sexual desires and commit other sinful acts freely without staining their souls.\n\nIn 1525, the Inquisition issued an Edict on the \"alumbrados\" in which the Inquisitor General, Alonso Manrique de Lara, explained how the new heresy of \"alumbradismo\" was discovered and investigated. The text then gave a numbered list of forty-eight heretical propositions which had emerged from the trials of the \"alumbrados\"' first leaders, and . After each proposition were given the grounds on which it was judged heretical. Among the odder of these propositions are that it is a mortal sin to read a book to console one's soul (No. 31), which the Inquisition's theologians described as \"crazy, erroneous, and even heretical\"; and that one sinned mortally every time one loved a son, daughter, or other person, and did not love that person through God (No. 36), which the theologians said was \"erroneous and false, and against the common teaching of the saints\". One \"alumbrado\", seeing a girl cross the street, said that \"she had sinned, because in that action she had fulfilled her will\" (No. 40). The theologians commented: \"The foundation of this proposition is heretical, because it seems to state that all action that proceeds from our will is sin.\"\n\nA labourer's daughter known as La Beata de Piedrahita, born in Salamanca, came to the notice of the Inquisition in 1511, by claiming to hold colloquies with Jesus and the Virgin Mary; some high patronage saved her from a rigorous denunciation. She is often, as \"The Catholic Encyclopedia\" cautiously notes, \"cited as an early adherent\" of the \"alumbrados\"' errors, though \"it is not certain that she was guilty of heresy\". Some recent scholars, like the Dominican historian and theologian Álvaro Huerga, who takes a relatively favorable view of her, question, on chronological and other grounds, the tendency to associate her with that movement, seeing her rather as \"\"pre-alumbrados\"\".\n\nHenry Charles Lea, in his \"A History of the Inquisition in Spain\", mentions, among the more extravagant \"alumbrados\", a priest from Seville named Fernando Méndez, who had acquired a special reputation for sanctity: \"he taught his disciples to invoke his intercession, as though he were already a saint in heaven; fragments of his garments were treasured as relics; he gathered a congregation of beatas and, after mass in his oratory, they would strip off their garments and dance with indecent vigor — drunk with the love of God — and, on some of his female penitents, he would impose the penance of lifting their skirts and exposing themselves before him.\" Méndez died before the Inquisition could bring him to trial.\n\nIgnatius of Loyola, while studying at Salamanca in 1527, was brought before an ecclesiastical commission on a charge of sympathy with the \"alumbrados\", but escaped with an admonition. Miguel de Molinos was also accused of sympathy owing to some similarities between his book \"The Spiritual Guide\" and the teachings of the early \"alumbrados\", Isabel de la Cruz and Pedro Ruiz de Alcaraz.\n\nA later case happened between the end of the 17th century and the beginning of the 18th century in Tenerife (Canary Islands). This concerned Sister María Justa de Jesús, a Franciscan nun who was accused of practicing Molinist doctrines (a Christian religious doctrine that attempts to reconcile God's providence with human free will). This nun was famous in her day because she was allegedly able to heal the sick by transferring to her person the evils and diseases that afflicted them, in a manner similar to shamans in other cultures. The case was investigated by the Holy Inquisition, and according to its files the nun was accused of being a phony and even a witch. She was also accused of having an improper relationship with her confessor. However, he had many defenders. After her death, the Franciscan Order in the Canary Islands initiated a process of canonization that had to be halted owing to the controversy.\n\nTheir correction, by Inquisitional standards, was not particularly severe. Those convicted of engaging in the mystical practices and heresy of the \"alumbrados\" were not executed, few endured long-term sentences, and most were tried only after they managed to acquire large congregations in Toledo or Salamanca. Not all, however, were so fortunate. In 1529 a congregation of naïve adherents at Toledo was subjected to whippings and imprisonment. Greater rigors followed, and for about a century alleged connection with the \"alumbrados\" sent many to the Inquisition, especially at Córdoba. In spite of this determined action, however, the heresy maintained itself until the middle of the 17th century. The connection of later \"alumbrados\", whose practices varied in different places, to the original \"alumbrados\", Isabella de la Cruz and Pedro Ruiz del Alcaraz, is debatable, but the continuing influence of their teachings is not improbable.\n\nThe movement (under the name of \"Illuminés\") seems to have reached France from Seville in 1623, and attained some following in Picardy when joined (1634) by , curé of Saint-Georges de Roye, whose followers, known as Guerinets, were suppressed in 1635.\n\nA century later, another, more obscure body of \"Illuminés\" came to light in the south of France in 1722, and appears to have lingered till 1794, having affinities with those known contemporaneously in the United Kingdom as 'French Prophets', an offshoot of the Camisards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829835", "title": "University of Sheffield Students' Union", "text": "University of Sheffield Students' Union\n\nSheffield Students' Union, officially known as the University of Sheffield Students' Union, is the representative body of students at the University of Sheffield. It is run by a team of eight elected sabbatical officers.\nThe forerunner of the University was Firth College (1879) which had both a Student Common Room and student societies including an Athletics Union. The Common Room Committee specifically had a 'chairman/woman' indicating equal status (unusual for the time) with a woman student winning the earliest known election in 1896. However, for the University itself, a Student Representative Council (SRC) was formed in 1906, with the name 'The University of Sheffield Union of Students' being first used in 1923. The first SRC had 20 men and 10 women elected, with 4 men and 3 women as officers. There was a Student President and two Vice-Presidents, one male and one female. For some periods it was called the Guild of Students.\n\nThe building for the new university, now called Firth Court, had two common rooms for students, one for men and one for women in which events could be organized. There was initial reluctance to hold dances on university property, but eventually dances were held in the main hall at lunchtimes and evenings. The University acquired two small buildings in 1928 to serve as student clubs, but the Union did not get a separate building till 1936, the Graves building (funded by J. G. Graves and designed by the Professor of Architecture, Stephen Walsh). This building is still present within the complex, though the interior is much altered.\n\nBecause of the expansion in numbers, a new building was constructed in 1960–61 adjacent to the Graves Hall and linked to it, which is the basis of the current Union building. A link block had what was claimed to be the longest Union bar in the country. A further expansion of the building took place in 1978, and various refurbishments occurred thereafter until 1993–6 when there was extensive reconstruction and extension, to accommodate a further increase in numbers, creating a substantially new building, designed by Mott Architecture.\n\nIn addition to the Union building, the Union shared facilities with the University in adjacent buildings; University House and the Octagon Centre. A major development project was completed in 2013, integrating University House into the Union building and providing an enclosed bridge to the Octagon Centre.\n\nThe Students' Union aims to \"advance the education of Students\" by \"representing the students of the University locally and nationally, organising services and activities to meet their needs\" and \"taking positive measures to encourage and build a student community which respects and celebrates the diversity of its membership\".\n\nThe Students' Union, its officers and staff are bound by democratically chosen policies and are reviewed every three years (unless circumstances warrant a more frequent review).\n\nThe Students' Union campaigns for the abolition of all tuition fees, introduction of financial support for postgraduate students, reinstatement of public investment in education as a social good, and against cuts to education.\n\nThe Students' Union maintains an environmental policy, undertaking the Students' Union to: educate its members on the issue of climate change, implement an Environment Code of Best Practice, call on the University to reduce its environmental footprint, lobby local authorities to work towards a sustainable Sheffield.\nNestlé products are banned within the Students' Union and its commercial services and the Students' Union has no dealings with the company due to its \"unfair exploitation of third world countries\".\nAs the result of a referendum in 2012, the Students' Union has introduced a 'strong anti-arms trade policy', and has consistently lobbied the University since to divest itself of any involvement with the international arms trade.\nIn a referendum in 2011, students of Sheffield Students' Union approved a policy to stop selling bottled water and replace it with a series of free drinking fountains and affordable, re-usable bottles. The bottled water ban was upheld following a referendum in October 2014, and will remain in place until 2017. The Students' Union council gave its support to the Go Fossil Free campaign by passing a motion in spring 2014. This global divestment movement, initiated by 350.org, encourages investors to remove their financial support for companies involved in the extraction and combustion of fossil fuels; activities which must be stopped in order to limit anthropogenic global warming.\n\nThe Students' Union has LGBT friendly policy, ensuring that all activities, facilities, services, organisations and events are LGBT friendly.\n\nThe University of Sheffield Students' Union has two policies relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, entitled \"End Israeli Occupation\" and \"Twinning with the Islamic University of Gaza\". The Students' Union, according to these policies, lobbies the University to \"divest itself from... companies that are complicit in the occupation of the Palestinian territories\" and ensures that the University fosters links with the Islamic University of Gaza, offering a scholarship programme to one of their students on an annual basis. It further commits the Students' Union to \"raise awareness of the global Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement\", although does not explicitly endorse it as was the case prior to March 2019.\n\nOn 16 January 2018, the Students' Union released a statement condemning the decision of President of the United States Donald Trump to recognise Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel. In the statement, on behalf of the Students' Union Council, President Kieran Maxwell condemned the move as resulting in \"the human rights of Palestinians [being] undermined and violated\" and called for \"an end to the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories, and for East Jerusalem to be recognised as the Capital of Palestine\".\n\nThe Union is run by a variety of working, representative and standing committees, presided over by the Student Union Council (SUC) and eight elected full-time sabbatical officers. These elected officers are supported by a number permanent staff led by the Chief Executive Jaki Booth, who took over the reins from Steve Hubbard. Paul Blomfield, now MP for Sheffield Central constituency, was in the role for a number of years before stepping down in 2010. It is a constituent member of the NUS.\nThe Union has a turnover of around £11,000,000. It provides for over 270 student societies, and contains a student employment service, two bars, four club venues, and outlets for food and drink, clothing and stationery.\n\n'Bar One' is a traditional student bar, while 'The Interval' is described as a \"laid back and sophisticated café bar\". Both bars hold pre-club nights with music and special events, and serve food and drinks. 'Bar One' was previously the longest union bar in the country. The union contains one of the largest beer gardens in Sheffield.\n\nThe Students' Union holds a variety of student club nights throughout the week at the main club venue, Foundry. These include pop music nights \"ROAR\" on Wednesday, \"Pop Tarts\" on Saturday. On Tuesdays, The Tuesday Club is a night focusing on underground dance music, usually Drum and Bass, UK Garage or House. Various other nights including LGBT+ night \"Proud\", Swing & Jazz night \"Jam Jar\" and international students' night \"One\" are held in the Foundry monthly on alternating weeks. Live music events and gigs are also regularly held in the Foundry, along with conference events and fairs.\n\nSeveral times a year, larger, multi-venue events encompassing the entire Students' Union site, such as \"Halloween Freaks Festival\" in October and \"Summer Social\" in June, attracting over 4,000 students.\n\nThe Union, under its obligation as part of the NUS to provide 24-hour support for students, funds Sheffield University Nightline, a telephone and email based listening and information service run by student volunteers from the University.\n\nThe Union has a list of approximately 320 societies and clubs, all run through a section of the union named \"The Activities and Sports Zone\".\n\nFilm Unit, the Union's Film Committee, shows three films a week during term time on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Films are played in a cinema with a capacity of nearly 400, equipped with commercial 35 mm film projectors and a Dolby Digital sound system. SUTCo (Sheffield University Theatre Company) produce six plays a year at the Drama Studio, a studio theatre converted from a church, as well as the biennial 24 Hour Charity Musical – rehearsed, choreographed, designed and produced within a 24-hour period. They also produce two alternative venue productions per year. The Technical Services Committee (TSC) are volunteers responsible for the setting up and running of equipment at the aforementioned club nights and live events at the Union.\n\nThe union has an active volunteering and charity community. The RAG (Raising and Giving society) raised over £180,000 in 2011–12, through general fundraising and several larger events; the union is host to the world's largest student organised charity hitchhike, Bummit, which runs every year. Another RAG tradition is Spiderwalk, a 12.5-mile trek through the city and the Peak District through the night; other societies run fund-raising activities throughout the night, such as a 24-hour role-playing event. The Union's \"SheffieldVolunteering\" scheme is one of the country's most active and well-recognised student volunteering schemes, with over 26,269 hours logged in 2011–12, and has won various national acclaims over the years.\n\nThe union's publication and broadcasting is branded under the name of Forge Media.\n\nThe \"Forge Press\" newspaper (formerly \"The Steel Press\") is published fortnightly, while \"Forge Radio\" is the union's own radio station which broadcasts throughout the Union building during term-time and over the internet. \"Forge TV\" – the newest part of Forge Media – is the Union's own television station, broadcasting online and around campus, as well as producing on-demand content.\n\nAs of September 2010, former Radio 1 DJ Mary Anne Hobbs joined the Forge Media team.\n\nThe union supports a large number of sports teams, which compete in the BUCS championships. The annual Varsity Challenge takes place between teams from the University and its rival Sheffield Hallam University in over 30 events.\n\nIt has won a succession of prestigious awards, including:\n\n– Best Higher Education Students' Union in the country at the first ever NUS awards ceremony in 2008 \n\n– Top UK Student Union: in the 2001 Virgin Alternative Guide to Universities\n\n– #1 Students' Union in the UK every year since 2009 to the Times Higher Education reports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829837", "title": "Coat of arms of Vilnius", "text": "Coat of arms of Vilnius\n\nThe coat of arms of Vilnius is the coat of arms of the city of Vilnius, Lithuania. It is also used as coat of arms of Vilnius city municipality. The modern version was created in 1991 by Arvydas Každailis, the same artist who drew the modern coat of arms of Lithuania. The design is based on the oldest seals of the Vilnius City Council dating back to the 14th century.\n\nThere is a great version and a small version. The great version incorporates the small version, which depicts Saint Christopher (sometimes also called Saint Christophorus) with the infant Jesus in his hands. This coat of arms was given to Vilnius in 1330. It was speculated that in pagan times, i.e., until the end of the 14th century, it featured Titan Alkis, a hero of ancient Lithuanian tales, carrying his wife Janterytė on his shoulders across the Vilnia River.\n\nThe great coat of arms bears the Latin motto \"UnitasJustitia – Spes\" (\"UnityJusticeHope\"). The words are echoed by objects held by the shield supporters: the axe and tied rods represent unity; the scale, justice; and the anchor, hope.\n\nThe coat of arms was abolished under the Lithuanian SSR. It was reinstated after Lithuania declared its independence from the Soviet Union in 1990.\n\nThe flag of Vilnius has the arms in the centre.\n"}
{"id": "1829838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829838", "title": "Malësia", "text": "Malësia\n\nMalësia e Madhe, known simply as Malësia or Malsia , is a historical and ethnographic region in northern Albania and eastern central Montenegro corresponding to the highlands of the geographical subdivision of the Malësi e Madhe District in Albania and Tuzi Municipality in Montenegro.\n\n\"Malësia e Madhe\" is Albanian for \"great highlands\". It is simply known as \"Malësia\", or in the local Gheg dialect, Malcía (). Elsie also describes the region as part of the Northern Albanian Alps. The tribes are commonly called \"highlanders\", , anglicized as \"Malissori\" or \"Malisors\". An archaic term used by foreign travellers in the 1860s was \"Malesians\".\n\nThe region includes parts of the Prokletije mountain range (known in Albanian as , \"the cursed mountains\") and hinterland of the Lake Scutari, with valleys of the Cem river.\n\nThe Malësors (Albanian highlanders) live within northern Albania and historically Malësia e Madhe (great highlands) contained five large tribes with four (Hoti, Kelmendi, Shkreli, Kastrati) having a Catholic majority and Muslim minority with Gruda evenly split between both religions. Within Malësia e Madhe there were an additional seven small tribes. During times of war and mobilisation of troops, the bajraktar (chieftain) of Hoti was recognised by the Ottoman government as leader of all forces of the Malësia e Madhe tribes having collectively some 6,200 rifles during the late Ottoman period. Malësia e Vogël (small highlands) with seven Catholic tribes such as the Shala with 4 bajaraktars, Shoshi, Toplana and Nikaj contained some 1,250 households with a collective strength of 2,500 men that could be mobilised for war. Shoshi had a distinction in the region of possessing a legendary rock associated with Lekë Dukagjini.\n\nDuring the Ottoman period, when northern Albania was part of the Sanjak of Scutari, Albanian tribes in Malësia some times sided with Montenegrin tribes in fighting the Ottomans. An example is from 1658, when the seven tribes of Kuči, Vasojevići, Bratonožići, Piperi, Kelmendi, Hoti and Gruda allied themselves with the Republic of Venice against the Ottomans. In 1757, the Bushati family transformed the sanjak into the semi-autonomous Pashalik of Scutari. After this, the Albanian tribes sided with the Bushati.\nAfter the Ottoman Empire lost the Montenegrin–Ottoman War (1876–78), Plav and Gusinje were ceded to Montenegro, which sparked Albanian attacks in the area organized by the nationalist League of Prizren in support of the Ottoman Empire. Later, in the early 20th century, the northern Albanian tribes switched sides against the Ottoman Empire and rose up with Serbian aid in 1910 and Montenegrin aid in 1911. The latter began with a memorandum signed by the Malësian tribal representatives.\n\nThe Malësian tribes won a victory at Deçiq in April 1911. The Albanian revolt of 1912 led to the Albanian Declaration of Independence later that year. On May 26, 1913, 130 leaders of Gruda, Hoti, Kelmendi, Kastrati and Shkreli sent a petition to Cecil Burney in Shkodër against the incorporation of their territories into Montenegro. Gruda and parts of Hoti came under Montenegrin rule.\nDuring World War II, the northern Albanian tribes were collaborationist and anti-Communist. Prek Cali led the Kelmendi tribe. Some leaders were persecuted by the new Communist regime.\n\nThe region is inhabited by an Albanian majority, divided between Catholicism and Islam, while a small Serb-Montenegrin community is present in some villages. The Albanian population ethnographically belongs to the Ghegs group.\n\nDue to its rich culture, the highland region has attracted more attention from anthropologists, artists, writers and scholars than any other Albanian-populated region. It is Malësia that produced what has been considered the national epic of the Albanian people, \"Lahuta e Malcís\" (\"The Highland Lute\"). Author and Franciscan friar Gjergj Fishta spent 35 years composing this epic poem, in which is chronicled the whole range of the ethnic Albainan cultural experience (e.g. weddings, funerals, historical battles, mythology, genealogy, and tribal law). It is as interesting to modern readers as an anthropological document as it is a magnificent poem.\n\nAnton Harapi, Albania's most distinguished Christian philosopher, dedicated his masterpiece \"Ândrra e Pretashit\" (The Dream of Pretash), initially called \"The Wise Men along Cemi River\" to the people of Malcía.\n\nThe oldest Albanian book was written by Malësor Catholic priest Gjon Buzuku.\n\nIn 1908, anthropologist Edith Durham visited the Malësia region and catalogued her findings in her ethnographic work \"High Albania,\" which was, for nearly a century, the most trusted source of information about the Albanian highlanders. Albanian anthropologist Kolë Berisha wrote, among other books, the four-volumes ethnography entitled \"Malcía e Madhe\" written between 1900 and 1945.\n\nRobert Elsie divided the tribes of Albania in his works according to regions. There were ten tribes that belonged to the Malësia e Madhe in the Northern Albanian Alps.\n\n\nThe histories of the respective clans (and hence the whole region) are amalgamations of both historical events and genealogies passed along by oral transmission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829841", "title": "Striker (video game)", "text": "Striker (video game)\n\nStriker is a soccer video game series first released by Rage Software in 1992.\n\nLater also for the Commodore Amiga, Amiga CD32, Atari ST, PC, Mega Drive/Genesis, and Super NES. It was bundled in one of the Amiga 1200 launch packs. It was one of the first soccer games to feature a 3D viewpoint, after Simulmondo's \"I Play 3D Soccer\".\n\nIn 1993 it was released in Japan by Coconuts Japan for the Super Famicom as , while the French Super NES version of \"Striker\" is known as Eric Cantona Football Challenge, playing on the popularity of French forward Eric Cantona, while the North American Super NES release of \"Striker\" was known as . The Mega Drive and Game Gear versions were branded as \"Sega Sports Striker\". They were published by SEGA and developed by Rage Software in 1994 and released in 1995.\n\nThe game received a mixed reaction from the gaming press, with some condemning and others praising its extreme speed. For example, CU Amiga Magazine awarded the game 94% in its June 1992 issue along with the CU Amiga Screenstar award while German magazine Amiga Joker awards the game 64% in the September 1992 edition.\n\nA sequel, \"World Cup Striker\" (known in North America as \"Elite Soccer\"), was released for the Super NES in 1994. It was basically a repackaged version of Striker, but slightly better. It was published in Japan by Coconuts Japan and in Europe by Elite.\n\nA Game Boy game developed by Denton Designs was also released at the same time, in Europe it was released as \"Soccer\", in North America as \"Elite Soccer\" (both published by GameTek), and in Japan as \"World Cup Striker\" (published by Coconuts Japan and endorsed by Yasutaro Matsuki).\n\nAlso, \"Striker Pro\" was released in Europe and North America for the CD-i. In 1995, \"Striker: World Cup Special\" was released for the 3DO. A game titled \"Striker '95\" was in development for the Atari Jaguar but never released. An entry in the \"Striker\" franchise was in the works for the Panasonic M2 but it never happened due to the system's cancellation.\n\nA year later \"Striker '96\" (known in Japan as \"Striker: World Cup Premiere Stage\") was released for the PlayStation, Sega Saturn and MS-DOS. Striker '96 is known for being the first soccer game on the original PlayStation.\n\nIn 2000 \"Striker Pro 2000\" (known in Europe as UEFA Striker) was released for the Dreamcast and PlayStation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829848", "title": "William Haines (Australian politician)", "text": "William Haines (Australian politician)\n\nWilliam Clark Haines (10 January 1810 – 3 February 1866), Australian colonial politician, was the first Premier of Victoria.\n\nHaines was born in London, the son of John Haines, a physician. He was educated at Charterhouse School and Caius College, Cambridge, where he graduated in medicine; he later practiced surgery for several years. In 1835 he married Mary Dugard, with whom he had nine children.\n\nHaines migrated to the Port Phillip District (later Victoria) in 1841 and settled in the Geelong area. He farmed in the area as well as practising as a surgeon. He was appointed a member of the Victorian Legislative Council (then a partly elected, partly appointive body) in 1851, and in 1853 he was elected for district of Grant. He served as colonial secretary 1854–55. Politically, he represented the small farmers against the squatters who owned most of Victoria's land.\n\nWhen Victoria gained full responsible government in 1855, Haines was leader of the Government. He was commissioned as Victoria's first premier and chief secretary on 28 November 1855 and served until 11 March 1857. Haines was elected to the Legislative Assembly for South Grant in November 1856. Haines was again premier from April 1857 to March 1858. Haines then visited Europe for three years. In 1860 he moved to the seat of Portland which he represented until 1864. Haines served as treasurer from 14 November 1861 to 27 June 1863, in the third O'Shanassy government. He served again in the legislative council, representing Eastern Province, from August 1865 until his death in February 1866.\n\nThe historian Raymond Wright describes Haines as a bluff, plain \"honest farmer\" type, who was \"much enjoyed for his appalling public speaking.\" His main concern as premier was to democratise the Constitution which had been drawn up for Victoria by colonial officials before self-government, mainly to protect the interests of the squatter class. A bill was introduced to enlarge the Assembly, redraw electoral boundaries and abolish the property qualification for both votes and candidates. But the unstable situation in the Assembly brought his ministry to an early end.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829858", "title": "Hit 'Em Up", "text": "Hit 'Em Up\n\n\"Hit 'Em Up\" is a diss song by hip hop artist 2Pac featuring the Outlawz, a group associated with him. It is the B-side to the single \"How Do U Want It\", released on June 4, 1996. The song's lyrics contain vicious insults to several East Coast rappers, chief among them, Shakur's former-friend-turned-rival, the Notorious B.I.G., also known as Biggie Smalls. The song was recorded in Los Angeles, California at Can Am Studios in May 1996. Reporter Chuck Philips, who interviewed Shakur at Can Am, described the song as \"a caustic anti-East Coast crusade in which the rapper threatens to eliminate Biggie, Sean Combs (Puffy), and a slew of Bad Boy artists and other New York acts.\" The song was produced by long-time collaborator Johnny \"J\" and uses the bassline from \"Don't Look Any Further\" by Dennis Edwards and interpolates \"10% Dis\" by MC Lyte, \"Get Money\" by The Notorious B.I.G.'s group Junior M.A.F.I.A.. The video, itself described as infamous, includes impersonations of Biggie, Puffy and M.A.F.I.A. member Lil' Kim.\n\n\"Hit 'Em Up\" had a large role in exacerbating the East Coast–West Coast hip hop rivalry. Following its release, the East Coast rappers insulted in the song responded through tracks of their own. The controversy surrounding the song is due in part to Shakur's murder in a drive-by-shooting only three months after its release.\n\nThe song is widely considered by the American hip hop community as one of the greatest diss tracks ever recorded due to its explicit lyrical content and the seriousness of violent intent by Shakur and his colleagues towards their rivals.\n\n\"Hit 'Em Up\" was written and recorded at Can-Am studios in May 1996. For the song, Tupac Shakur recruited the members of the former group Dramacydal whom he had worked with previously, and was eager to work with again. Together, the rappers (along with other associates) formed the original lineup of the Outlawz. The first and third verses are performed by Shakur, while the second verse is performed by Hussein Fatal, the fourth by Yaki Kadafi and the fifth by E.D.I. Mean.\n\nThe ferocity of Shakur's raging vocals, as said by long-time collaborator and producer of \"Hit 'Em Up\" Johnny \"J\", was entirely authentic. He explained that Shakur was initially fueled by his anger against Biggie and Bad Boy Records for the belief that they had a role in the November 30, 1994 ambush and attack on Shakur. He claimed that Biggie and his crew knew of his shooting and wanted him dead. Shakur used this fury, which Johnny \"J\" described as \"superhuman\", to attack Biggie and other East Coast rappers. Johnny \"J\" also stated that he had never seen Shakur so angry and that the words he rapped were in no way an act, describing the recording process as the most \"hard-core he had ever done.\" Although he was very happy with the work he had put into it and the resulting song, Johnny \"J\" went on to say that he had no desire to work on anything of that magnitude again.\n\nShakur was also enraged by Biggie's release of \"Who Shot Ya?\" provocatively only months after the shooting incident, and although it did not directly involve Shakur's name, he believed it was directed towards him. Shakur admitted to releasing \"Hit 'Em Up\" as a response to \"Who Shot Ya?\" In a \"Vibe\" interview, the rapper called out Sean \"Puffy\" Combs and Biggie Smalls and accused both of them of setting him up, or of having knowledge of the attack and not warning him. He also singled out businessmen James Rosemond (\"Jimmy Henchman\"), and Jacques Agnant (\"Haitian Jack\") of orchestrating the assault. Shakur announced the names of his ostensible conspirators to Kevin Powell, a journalist for \"Vibe\" however, to mask their true identities, \"Vibe\" referred to Henchman as \"Booker,\" and Jack as \"Nigel\" in the published interview. Persons familiar with the interview say they used different names after the magazine received threats from Henchman. A former \"Vibe\" editor denied receiving threats, but neglected to explain why the magazine substituted aliases for Henchman and Haitian Jack.\n\nHenchman promised Shakur $7,000 to duo with Lil Shawn, a rapper whom the businessman represented at that time. In a 2008 article by Philips, Henchman was implicated in organizing the assault, and was further implicated in 2012 by his long-time friend Dexter Isaac, who confessed to attacking Shakur on Henchman's orders. Isaac was confirmed as a source in Philip's earlier story as well as in Henchman's own confession, according to prosecutors at his 2012 trial.\n\nThe lyrics in \"Hit 'Em Up\" were aimed primarily at Biggie and Puffy. Shakur viciously insults Biggie throughout⁠ ⁠— the first line by Shakur is \"That's why I fucked your bitch, you fat motherfucker\"⁠ ⁠— and threatens retaliation in the songs hook, saying \"Who shot me?/But you punks didn't finish/Now you're about to feel the wrath of a menace.\" He also used the song as a platform to express his belief that Biggie was guilty of stealing his style of rapping, and was merely imitating his lifestyle. This notion is addressed in the verse in \"Now it's all about Versace, you copied my style.\" He also touches topically on their early friendship with the line \"Biggie, remember when I used to let you sleep on the couch?\" and their subsequent fallout. Towards the end of the song Tupac disses Mobb Deep, saying \"Don't one of you niggas got sickle cell or something? You fucking with me, nigga you fuck around and get a seizure or a heart attack\", referring to Prodigy, a member of Mobb Deep who suffered from sickle cell disease (and would in fact later die of complications related to the disease). Mobb Deep responded by releasing \"Drop a Gem on 'em\", which was released shortly before Tupac's death (but pulled from airplay rotation after). \"Hit 'Em Up\" features much profanity, using the words \"fuck\" or \"motherfucker\" at least 35 times in the song, and was issued a Parental Advisory label.\n\nThe bassline in \"Hit 'Em Up\" is taken from the 1984 Dennis Edwards song \"Don't Look Any Further\". The chorus of \"Hit 'Em Up\" is a play on the chorus of Junior M.A.F.I.A's \"Player's Anthem.\" The phrase \"take money\" is repeated throughout the song, which is a play on Junior M.A.F.I.A's recent release \"Get Money\", which is also the beat used in \"Hit 'Em Up\". Faith Evans, who at the time was Biggie's estranged wife, was reportedly seen with Shakur after a public breakup with Biggie. Journalist Chuck Philips spotted Faith Evans at Can Am when he interviewed Shakur a year earlier in 1995. People at the studio told the reporter that Faith Evans also contributed—that the R&B chanteuse recorded one or more \"Take Money\" background vocals that would appear on \"Hit Em Up.\" In his October 1995 interview of the rapper, Philips remembered in 2012, \"I was so unaware of the bi-coastal rap war that I suspected nothing when Faith Evans appeared with Shakur at Can Am. The estranged wife of Biggie was recording background vocals for \"Wonda Why They Call U Bitch\", a song which was at the time yet to be released. According to Shakur she had given him gifts of clothing, which he offered as proof of a relationship in an interview. Using this against Biggie in \"Hit 'Em Up\", Shakur continued to fuel the rumors of a sexual relationship with Evans in the song's line \"You claim to be a player, but I fucked your wife.\" Claims of an affair with Evans appear three times in the song.\n\nShakur also attacked many other people associated with Bad Boy Records and with Biggie, such as Lil' Kim and Junior M.A.F.I.A. He exclaimed that their lifestyle and what they rapped about were fraudulent, and that they were not from the streets. He believed that they were only perpetuating the drama and did not understand the situation they were getting into. Bronx rapper Chino XL was also insulted for vulgar comments he made about Shakur on his song \"Riiiot!\". In the original recording, Shakur also insulted Jay-Z at the ending segment, but removed it after being convinced by Outlawz members that Carter had nothing to do with the conflict between Death Row and Bad Boy.\n\nThe music video for \"Hit 'Em Up\" was filmed in a warehouse off Slauson Avenue near Fox Hills Mall in Los Angeles in May 1996. It was filmed by the production company Look Hear Productions. Shakur raps in a white room with The Outlawz, as well as in purple-caged room and a black room with bullet holes in the background. TV monitors in the background show clips of Shakur, Puffy, and Biggie Smalls, and even clips from the video \"Made Niggaz.\" The video featured actors who were recalled from their prior roles in the music video for \"2 of Amerikaz Most Wanted\" to impersonate some of those who were attacked in \"Hit 'Em Up.\" This included Biggie, whose stand-in stares dully into the camera and sports a Kangol and jacket, similar to one Biggie would wear. During the moments where Shakur raps about his claimed affair with Evans, the Biggie impersonator crouches near the camera while Shakur yells in his face. Puffy is also impersonated, appearing with a high-top fade and leaning towards the camera, lowering and raising his sunglasses.\n\nLike the song, the video for \"Hit 'Em Up\" has also been called \"infamous\". The pro-West Coast track's music video featured the members crushing buildings in Manhattan, which was already done in another pro-West Coast music video for \"New York, New York\" by Tha Dogg Pound earlier. The music video for \"Hit 'Em Up\" can be found on \"Tupac: Live at the House of Blues\" DVD.\n\nFinishing the recording of the song, Shakur felt very positively about the track, saying the \"song is going to be playing in every club., every country. Deejays are calling from everywhere, wanting to get a piece of this.\" \"Hit 'Em Up\" appeared first as a B-side, on the single \"How Do U Want It\", by Shakur featuring The Outlawz. On June 4, 1996 under the label Death Row Records, \"Hit 'Em Up\" was released on compact disc, 12-inch, and a 45 RPM. The original cover for the single had Puffy's head on a snake's body, and Biggie's head on a pig's. It also appeared posthumously on several compilations, including the 2005 release of Shakur's last recorded live performance, \"\". \"Hit 'Em Up\" was also remixed on Nu-Mixx Klazzics. Upon its release, \"Hit 'Em Up\" received frequent radio airplay, which was attributed to the public interest in the ongoing feud and radio stations' desire to garner high ratings. However, some radio stations, such as the Los Angeles-based KPWR, refused to play it. The follow-up to \"Hit 'Em Up\" was the song .\n\n\"Hit 'Em Up\" has been called \"controversial,\" \"infamous,\" \"disturbing,\" and \"brutal.\" Shakur's insults against virtually the entire East Coast scene of rappers were said to be ferocious. The song, along with \"Dear Mama,\" has been viewed as one of Shakur's songs that resonated with and was spoken of the most by young people. Some felt that \"Hit 'Em Up\" showcased Shakur ranting and raving like a fool, and J.R. Reynolds of \"Billboard\" called it horrendous, noting that Shakur revealed his true colors upon recording the song. He also went on to say that although sympathetic to the shooting, \"Hit 'Em Up\" had \"fan[ned] the flames of hatred ...and affect[ed] an entire black culture's psyche\"; he called the song \"repugnant and unacceptable.\" Among associates of Shakur, it was called a \"bad-luck song.\" Los Angeles radio director Bruce St. James called the song \"the be-all, end-all, curse-word, dirty-lyric, violent song of all time.\" Game's manager has called it the best diss record. Documentary filmmaker Carl Weston believed that \"most people in Biggie's shoes would have wanted to at least \"hurt\" Tupac\" in a \"Spin\" magazine interview.\n\nAmong musicians, the song drew criticism from singer Dionne Warwick, and disapproval from fellow rappers Kool Moe Dee and Chuck D, as written in their book \"There's a God on the Mic: The True 50 Greatest MCs\". They felt that although Shakur was one of the most substantive rappers of that period, he had gone too far with \"Hit 'Em Up,\" causing some of Shakur's fans to turn on him, according to the two rappers.\n\nThe song has been viewed as the turning point in the feud between Tupac and Biggie, where things were said and rapped which could never be taken back during the remainder of Shakur's life. This has led to it being dubbed as the beginning of the war between the East Coast and the West Coast, and the centerpiece in what became the most venomous battle in history of hip hop.\n\n\"Hit 'Em Up\" has been studied by and with academics, and it has been used as a part of a series of lessons for building the means to communicate with younger people. Its main role in these lessons is to define anger in rap music. Biggie was shot and killed six months after Shakur's death.\n\nAfter hearing \"Hit 'Em Up\", Biggie continued proclaiming his innocence in the shooting incident. He also remarked that the song \"Who Shot Ya?\" was written before Shakur was shot and thus, was not about him.\nRegarding the lyrics aimed at his wife Faith, Biggie expressed an inability to find merit in what Shakur had claimed. He believed that Shakur intended to attack him through Faith, although he remained unsure of whether an encounter between them had occurred. Ultimately, he thought that if something had occurred it was none of his business, and that Shakur should not have publicly disclosed this information in a song. Biggie responded to this matter in a similar fashion to \"Hit 'Em Up\", rapping in a joint release by himself and Jay-Z in the song \"Brooklyn's Finest\", where he says \"If Faye have twins, she'd probably have two Pacs. Get it? Tupac's?\" Shortly after the release of \"Hit 'Em Up\", Evans went on the radio and denied that she had been with Shakur.\n\nPuffy had trouble understanding the sheer rage Shakur had expressed for Biggie in \"Hit 'Em Up\". He also responded by reinforcing his and Biggie's innocence regarding the shooting and went on to say that prior to the incident they \"were friends\", and that they \"would have never done nothing to hurt him.\" In an interview with \"Vibe Magazine\" concerning Shakur's allegations of Biggie and Puffy having prior knowledge of the ambush, Puffy stated:\n\nLil' Kim responded on the original version of her song \"Big Momma Thang\", which was aimed at Biggie's wife, Faith Evans, and Shakur. Junior M.A.F.I.A. recorded a music video for the song \"Get Money\", which has been regarded as a diss to Shakur. Biggie denies these claims, stating: \"It's just a video; ain't nobody got no time to make no diss on nobody.\" Lil' Cease said after the release that Biggie still had love for Shakur, and even respected him. The attack on Mobb Deep came as a response for their involvement on the song \"L.A L.A\" by Capone-N-Noreaga, which was a retaliation to Snoop Dogg and Tha Dogg Pound's song \"New York, New York\" music video in which members of Tha Dogg Pound and Death Row are seen knocking down buildings in New York City. Mobb Deep responded to Shakur with the track \"Drop a Gem on 'em\". It was first released as a promotional single, and later appeared on their album \"Hell on Earth\". Lyrically, it did not specifically name Shakur, but it did allude to the shooting incident. It has also been noted for erroneously stating the cost of the assets Shakur had taken from him during the shooting incident. Bronx rapper King Sun also responded to Shakur with \"New York Love (All Eyez On Sun)\".\n\n\"Hit 'Em Up\" was originally featured as a B-side on Shakur's single \"How Do U Want It\". In 1998, it was released on Shakur's first compilation album, \"Greatest Hits.\" A remix of the song was featured on \"Nu-Mixx Klazzics\" (2003), where the intro lyrics from the originally explicit version and the main lyrics from the edited radio version. A live version of the song was included on the 2005 release of \"\". \"Hit 'Em Up\" was first released on \"Death Row Greatest Hits\", and was again released as a live recording on the 2004 album \"2Pac Live\".\n\nIn the second half of Eminem's song \"Quitter\", the rapper attempts to remake \"Hit 'Em Up\" and in itself is a diss track aimed towards Everlast. Eminem has support from D12 on his version like the Outlawz supported Shakur on the original. Khia used the song's beat and part of the hook in her song \"Hit 'Em Up\"\n, which is a diss to female rappers Trina and Jacki-O. \"What I Think About You\" by Bow Wow uses a reinterpolation of \"Hit 'Em Up\" and is a diss song to fellow rapper Soulja Boy Tell 'em.\n\nThe song appears in 2Pac's Biopic, \"All Eyez On Me\" (2017), in which 2Pac performs the song during his 1996 House Of Blues Concert in the film as a message to Biggie, talking about having relations with Faith Evans, Biggie's wife. The film shows 2Pac sending the song to Biggie to hear along with Biggie being handed a magazine with 2Pac & Faith taking a close picture together, furthering the accusation of 2Pac taking Biggie's wife in the song. The lines 'take money' were sung by Faith Evans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829871", "title": "County Cricket Ground, Derby", "text": "County Cricket Ground, Derby\n\nThe County Cricket Ground (usually shortened to the County Ground, also known as the Racecourse Ground; currently the Incora County Ground due to sponsorship) is a cricket ground in Derby, England. It has been the home of Derbyshire County Cricket Club since 1871. The ground was first used by South Derbyshire Cricket Club in 1863 and was initially located within Derby Racecourse, although racing ceased after 1939. The ground has staged two One-Day Internationals: New Zealand against Sri Lanka during the 1983 ICC Cricket World Cup and New Zealand against Pakistan during the 1999 ICC Cricket World Cup. It was one of the venues for the 2017 ICC Women's Cricket World Cup, hosting one of the semi-finals.\n\nThe ground was also formerly used for football, and was the home of Derby County F.C. between 1884 and 1895. It staged the first ever FA Cup Final match played outside London, a replay of the 1886 Final, and hosted an international match between England and Ireland in 1895.\n\nThe ground was first used by South Derbyshire Cricket Club in 1863 and was initially located within Derby Racecourse, although racing ceased after 1939.\n\nIt also held the games of Derby County Football Club until their move to the Baseball Ground in 1895. The first FA Cup Final outside London was held at the ground in 1886 when Blackburn Rovers beat West Bromwich Albion 2-0 in a replay. England played one football international here, beating Ireland 9-0 in the British Home Championship on 9 March 1895.\n\nThe playing area used to feature pitches laid on an east–west axis. Most first-class grounds feature pitches laid north–south to avoid problems with the light from the setting sun. Derbyshire re-laid the pitch on a north–south axis over the 2009/10 winter at a cost of £100,000, ready for the 2010 season. This involved moving some of the floodlights and the electronic scoreboard to suit the new alignment.\n\nIn early 2010 a large 1800 seat stand was erected at the Racecourse End of the ground. This stand was taken down in late 2015 in order to make way for a new £2.2 million four storey media centre, which was completed and officially opened in September 2016. Some 1100 seats were immediately reinstated at the Pavilion End of the ground, with the remaining reinstated next to the new media centre. In February 2017 Derby Civic Society awarded a commendation in the category of Best New Build of 2016 to Derbyshire County Cricket Club for the new media centre.\nA new marquee was also built in 2010, which is used for private functions and entertainment during match days.\n\nIn February 2016, it was announced that the County Ground would be one of the host venues for the 2017 Women's Cricket World Cup in England. Along with Bristol, Derby hosted one of the semi-finals of the tournament.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829873", "title": "Plus (telecommunications Poland)", "text": "Plus (telecommunications Poland)\n\nPlus (formerly Plus GSM) is the brand name of Poland's mobile phone network operator, Polkomtel. The company is entirely owned by Polkomtel sp. z o.o. It operates GSM (900/1800 MHz), UMTS, LTE and WLAN networks in Poland. It was founded 1995.\n\nAt the end of 2011, Plus had 13,698 million customers, including 6,576 million (47%) in prepaid system.\n\nIn July 2011, Zygmunt Solorz-Żak agreed to buy Polkomtel SA for 15.1 billion zlotys ($5.5 billion).\n\n"}
{"id": "1829880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829880", "title": "List of biblical figures identified in extra-biblical sources", "text": "List of biblical figures identified in extra-biblical sources\n\nThese are biblical figures unambiguously identified in contemporary sources according to scholarly consensus. Biblical figures that are identified in artifacts of questionable authenticity, for example the Jehoash Inscription and the bullae of Baruch ben Neriah, or who are mentioned in ancient but non-contemporary documents, such as David and Balaam, are excluded from this list.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible, known in Judaism by the acronym \"Tanakh\", is the collection of ancient writings that are considered sacred by both Jews and Christians. They tell the story of the Jewish people and their ancestors, starting from the creation narrative and concluding near the end of the 5th century BCE.\n\nAlthough the first mention of the name 'Israel' in archaeology dates to the 13th century BCE, contemporary information on the Israelite nation prior to the 9th century BCE is extremely sparse. In the following centuries a small number of local Hebrew documents, mostly seals and bullae, mention biblical characters, but more extensive information is available in the royal inscriptions from neighbouring kingdoms, particularly Babylon, Assyria and Egypt.\n\nThe deuterocanon consists of books and parts of books that are included in the Old Testament canon of the Eastern Orthodox and/or Roman Catholic churches, but are not part of the Jewish Tanakh, and are regarded as apocryphal by Protestants. In contrast to the Tanakh, which is preserved in Hebrew (with some Aramaic parts), the deuterocanonical books are preserved mainly in Koine Greek, though Hebrew and Aramaic fragments have been found among the Dead Sea Scrolls.\n\nWhile the deuterocanon describes events between the eighth and second centuries BCE, most historically identifiable people mentioned in the deuterocanon lived around the time of the Maccabean Revolt (167–160 BCE), by which time Judea had become part of the Seleucid Empire. Coins featuring the names of rulers had become widespread and many of them were inscribed with the year number in the Seleucid era, allowing them to be dated precisely. First-hand information comes also from the Greek historian Polybius (c. 200 – c. 118 BCE), whose \"Histories\" covers much of the same period as the Books of Maccabees, and from Greek and Babylonian inscriptions.\n\nBy far the most important and most detailed sources for first-century Jewish history are the works of Jewish historian Flavius Josephus (37 – c. 100 CE). These books mention many of the same prominent political figures as the New Testament books and are crucial for understanding the historical background of the emergence of Christianity. Josephus also mentions Jesus and the execution of John the Baptist although he was not a contemporary of either. Apart from Josephus, information about some New Testament figures comes from Roman historians such as Tacitus and Suetonius and from ancient coins and inscriptions.\n\nThe central figure of the New Testament is Jesus of Nazareth. Despite ongoing debate concerning the authorship of many of its books, there is a consensus among modern scholars that at least some were written by a contemporary of Jesus, namely the epistles of Paul, parts of which are considered undisputed. However, outside the New Testament, no contemporary references to Jesus are known, unless a very early dating is assumed of some uncanonical gospel such as the Gospel of Thomas. Nevertheless, some authentic first century and many second century writings exist in which Jesus is mentioned, leading many scholars to conclude that the historicity of Jesus is well established by historical documents.\n\nThese are Biblical figures for which tentative but likely identifications have been found in contemporary sources based on matching names and credentials. The possibility of coincidental matching of names cannot be ruled out however.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829881", "title": "Sandy Cohen", "text": "Sandy Cohen\n\nSanford \"Sandy\" Cohen is a fictional character and the main protagonist on the FOX series \"The O.C.\", portrayed by Peter Gallagher.\n\nSandy, son of Sophie Cohen, is married to Kirsten Cohen. Their eldest child, Seth, is something of a social misfit. Sandy's father left his mother when he was young and he has an unnamed brother and sister. Sandy's parents and siblings are not characters on The O.C. Sandy was originally a public defender, which brought him into contact with troubled teen, Ryan Atwood, whom he eventually adopted and took on as his own after Ryan's mother abandoned him. He has since gone into private practice in a law firm, before going to start his own law firm, taking over his late father-in-law's company, the Newport Group, returning to being a defense lawyer after Seth accidentally burned down the Newport Group headquarters, and finally becoming a Law professor. Sandy and Kirsten have three children. Sandy supports more liberal politics when compared to his wife Kirsten Cohen. He campaigned for the Democratic presidential candidate Walter Mondale in 1984, while his wife Kirsten Cohen supported the Republican candidate, Ronald Reagan.\n\nThroughout the series, Sandy serves as a moral center, often guiding and supporting Seth and Ryan, and at times their love interests Marissa Cooper, Summer Roberts and Taylor Townsend, through their problems.\n\nDespite living in Newport and marrying a \"Newpsie\", it becomes apparent that Sandy does not consider himself to be \"one of them\". His blue-collar, single-parent-upbringing in The Bronx contrasts with that of his wife Kirsten. Like long-time next door neighbor Julie Cooper, he was not raised in the affluent Newport lifestyle but unlike Julie, he generally disassociates himself from his counterparts. He usually does not fail to make known his distaste for the shallow, materialistic and pampered ways of his contemporaries who were born and bred in that lifestyle, even going so far as to describe Harbor School teachers as \"preppy little savages\" and calling the housewives' social gatherings \"Newpsie Conventions\".\n\nAs the more easy-going parent, Sandy's \"hippie parenting\" sometimes clashed with Kirsten's more strict and firm style. He prefers to let his children learn the error of their ways by experiencing the consequences themselves.\n\nSandy has a mainly stable relationship with Kirsten and Seth, albeit with the occasional problem surfacing. Unresolved issues of trust and jealousy rise to the surface with regards to Kirsten's former childhood sweetheart, Jimmy Cooper, who is also their next-door neighbor in Season 1.\n\nHe leaves the Public Defender's Office to go into private practice at Patridge, Savage and Khan, along with his former colleague from the District Attorney's office, Rachel Hoffman. She causes tension between Sandy and Kirsten when Kirsten finds Sandy enjoying a drink with Rachel one night while he was supposed to be at a meeting. Later on, Sandy and Rachel get involved in a case against Caleb's company, the Newport Group. Both were accused by Caleb of having an affair because they had been spending a lot of time together and working very late. Not long afterwards, when Rachel and Sandy were working late in her apartment, she indeed makes a play for him, but he rejects her advances. He and Kirsten then attempt to set her up with the newly divorced Jimmy, to no avail.\n\nRebecca Bloom, an old flame of Sandy's, came back into their lives, causing difficulties between him and Kirsten. This contributed towards her growing alcohol problem, and the distance between her and Sandy caused her to almost have an affair with a magazine editor, Carter Buckley, although he left before anything happened. This came to a head when Kirsten's father, Caleb Nichol, died which caused Kirsten's drinking problem to run out of control, forcing the entire Cohen family (including Ryan) and Kirsten's sister Hailey to stage an intervention and put her in rehab.\n\nHe has had many new problems with the underhanded nature of business in the real estate world in his new job as CEO of the Newport Group. This once again has caused a strain on his home life, although the season three finale saw him making the decision to return to being a public defender after revisiting his old office and seeing what it was like.\n\nIn the fourth season, Sandy helps Ryan sort things out with Kevin Volchok, who was responsible for the death of Marissa and he was also the one who talks Ryan into helping Taylor, who was in the middle of a divorce from her French husband, Henri-Michel.\n\nLater in the season, Sandy bumps into a man at the New Year's Eve party and investigates further. The man is revealed to be Ryan's father, Frank Atwood, whom Sandy meets. Frank wants to see Ryan, so Sandy tells Ryan who refuses. Frank tells Sandy that he has cancer so Kirsten invites him to dinner but Sandy is suspicious. It is later revealed Frank lied in a last-ditch attempt to see Ryan, prompting Sandy to punch him in front of everyone.\n\nSandy helps in the preparation for Kirsten's fortieth birthday. He finds a mail truck, exactly the same model as the one that both of them lived in Berkeley, while his real present to her was two first-class tickets around the world. When he tells a stunned Kirsten, she announces that she is having a baby. After an earthquake hits Newport Beach, Sandy finds Kirsten on the ground, and tries to help her up, but had difficulties because of the falling objects around them. At the hospital, Sandy and Kirsten discover that they are going to have a daughter.\n\nSix months later, he and Kirsten move to Berkeley; back to the house where they had Seth. It is in this house that Seth and Ryan's sister, Sophie Rose, starts her life. In the flashforward set five years later, Sandy is now a law professor at UC Berkeley.\n\nThe character is based on the show's creator Josh Schwartz who told: \"The dynamic between Sandy and Seth is very much based on me and my dad. He said about Sandy: \"He is never a man who can refuse to help someone.\"\n\nIn 2004, \"TV Guide\" ranked Sandy number 25 on its 50 Greatest TV Dads of All Time list. BuddyTV ranked him number 7 on its of the \"15 Hottest TV Dads\". AOL TV placed him in its Top 20 TV Dads.\n"}
{"id": "1829883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829883", "title": "Otto Graf Lambsdorff", "text": "Otto Graf Lambsdorff\n\nOtto Friedrich Wilhelm Freiherr von der Wenge Graf Lambsdorff, known as Otto Graf Lambsdorff, (20 December 1926 – 5 December 2009) was a German politician of the Free Democratic Party.\n\nLambsdorff was born in Aachen (Rhineland) to Herbert Graf Lambsdorff and Eva, \"née\" Schmidt. He attended school in Berlin and Brandenburg an der Havel and became an officer cadet in the Wehrmacht in 1944. In April 1945 he was severely wounded in an Allied strafe attack and lost his lower left leg. Lambsdorff was a prisoner of war until 1946. After World War II he passed his Abitur and studied law at the Universities of Bonn and Cologne where he obtained a PhD.\n\nIn 1951, Lambsdorff became a member of the liberal FDP, and from 1972 to 1998 he represented this party in the Federal parliament, the \"Bundestag\".\n\nWithin and outside his party he was known as a representative of the market liberals; a mocking name was \"der Marktgraf\" (\"the market count\", a play on \"Markgraf\", \"margrave\").\n\nWhen Chancellor Willy Brandt made way for Helmut Schmidt in 1977, Lambsdorff was appointed West German Federal Minister of Economics in the new government and served from 1977 until 1982. He held the same office again from 1982 until 1984 in the government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl after his party pulled out of the coalition with the Social Democratic Party to form a new Government with Kohl’s Christian Democratic Union.\n\nIn 1987, Lambsdorff became the first West German cabinet minister to be indicted while in office when he was forced to resign over allegations of corruption in the so-called Flick Affair. By January 1987, however, the prosecutor asked the court to acquit Lambsdorff of all corruption charges, including charges he accepted $50,000 between 1977 and 1980 from the Flick concern in return for granting lucrative tax waivers. On 16 February 1987, he was convicted by the Bonn State Court on lesser charges, namely tax evasion on donations to political parties. During the 18-month trial, he won re-election to Parliament and served as his parliamentary group’s spokesman on economic matters.\n\nLambsdorff served as chairman of the FDP from 1988 until 1993.\n\nIn 1991, during the Persian Gulf war, Lambsdorff joined American officials in voicing anger at the German government, accusing it of moving slowly to prevent some German companies from supplying Iraq with arms and poison gas plants.\n\nFollowing Hans-Dietrich Genscher’s resignation, Lambsdorff and Chancellor Helmut Kohl named Irmgard Schwaetzer, a former aide to Genscher, to be the new Foreign Minister. In a surprise decision, however, a majority of the FDP parliamentary group rejected her nomination and voted instead to name Justice Minister Klaus Kinkel to head the Foreign Ministry.\n\nAfter resigning from active politics, Lambsdorff remained an advocate of free markets, becoming an active figure in the DSW shareholder action group, and regularly warned about the dangers of growing bureaucracy and tax burdens. From 1993 until 2008, he served on the supervisory board of Lufthansa.\n\nIn 1999 Lambsdorff was appointed as the federal envoy to the negotiations for the compensation of the victims of forced labor in Germany during World War II by Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, which led to the establishment of the Foundation \"Remembrance, Responsibility and Future\".\n\nHe also served as a member of the scientific advisory board of the Centre Against Expulsions and a jury member of the Franz Werfel Human Rights Award.\n\nLambsdorff was honorary president of the Liberal International. In this capacity, he personally delivered the World Association of Newspapers' Golden Pen of Freedom Award to Kenyan human rights activist Gitobu Imanyara in 1992, who was banned by his country's authorities from leaving the country.\n\nThe pro-business Free Democratic Party (FDP) had been in coalition with the social democratic SPD, but changed direction in the early 1980s. Lambsdorff led the FDP to adopt the market-oriented \"Kiel Theses\" in 1977; it rejected the Keynesian emphasis on consumer demand, and proposed to reduce social welfare spending, and try to introduce policies to stimulate production and facilitate jobs. Lambsdorff argued that the result would be economic growth, which would itself solve both the social problems and the financial problems. As a consequence switched allegiance to the CDU, and Schmidt lost his parliamentary majority in 1982. For the only time in West Germany's history, the government fell on a vote of no confidence.\n\nThe Lambsdorff family is of old Westphalian aristocratic descent, but settled for centuries in the Baltic countries and was hence closely connected to Tsarist and Imperial Russia (see Baltic Germans). Lambsdorff's father served as a tsarist cadet in St. Petersburg and the former Russian foreign minister Vladimir Lambsdorff is one of his relatives.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2017, his nephew Alexander Graf Lambsdorff represented the FDP in the European Parliament. He has been a member of the Bundestag since September 2017.\n\nLambsdorff married Renate Lepper in 1953; they had two daughters and a son. He was married to Alexandra von Quistorp from 1995 until his death on 5 December 2009. He is survived by all three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829884", "title": "Primordial (band)", "text": "Primordial (band)\n\nPrimordial is an extreme metal band from Skerries, County Dublin, Ireland. It was formed in 1987 by Pól MacAmhlaigh (bass) and Ciarán MacUiliam (guitars). Their sound blends black metal and doom metal with Celtic music.\n\nThe band's roots stretch back to 1987 when Pól and Ciarán first began playing together with Pól's brother, Derek. The band (who were called Forsaken for a brief period) initially played a rough, hybrid mix of early, primitive thrash and death metal (playing covers of Death, Sepultura and the like).\n\nVocalist Nemtheanga joined the band after seeing an advertisement for a singer in Dublin specialist Metal store The Sound Cellar in 1991. According to Primordial lore, the ad was pasted over no more than 2 hours after it being put up.\n\nUpon Nemtheanga's joining the band, the band started to pursue a darker direction citing influence from Bathory, Celtic Frost and the emerging Greek and Norwegian black metal scenes.\n\nPrimordial was the first black metal styled band to emerge from Ireland with the release of their \"Dark Romanticism\" demo in the early summer of 1993 (Cruachan were also active at this time combining black metal with folk music). The band initially came to the attention of Lee Barrett from the UK label Candlelight Records but he failed to move on signing the band, so after a live soundboard recording from Dublin from 1994 was sent to Cacophonous Records (Cradle of Filth, Bal Sagoth, etc.), the band signed with them for the release of their debut album \"Imrama\".\n\nAlthough their debut album, \"Imrama\", was characteristic as being in a more melodic black metal musical direction, they gradually came to refine their sound with \"A Journey's End\", which included the use of mandolins and whistles and a more epic style. The two subsequent releases, \"The Burning Season\" and \"Spirit the Earth Aflame\", showed the band's reflection of cultural geist and emotion, woven into an amalgam of black, Celtic, and folk metal musical styles. They have toured with various metal bands in the extreme metal genre, including Norwegian black metal band Immortal.\n\nThey released their dark fourth studio album \"Storm Before Calm\" in 2002, but the band's fifth album \"The Gathering Wilderness\" turned out to be a much darker and bleaker record than any Primordial had made before, providing the listener with a rawer sound as well. It was chosen as album of the month in Terrorizer Magazine and appeared in many top lists of the year 2005.\n\nIn January 2006 the band played their first US show alongside Thyrfing and Moonsorrow at the Heathen Crusade metalfest in Columbia Heights, Minnesota.\n\nThe band's sixth album \"To the Nameless Dead\", was released on 16 November 2007 with universal praise for its raw sound used from the first or second recordings. In November and December 2010, the band entered Foel Studio in Wales to work with producer Chris Fielding once again. The resulting album, \"Redemption at the Puritan's Hand\" was released via Metal Blade on April 22, 2011. In July 2014, Primordial announced their eighth studio album under the working title \"Where Greater Men Have Fallen\". It was released November 25th 2014 in the US and November 24th elsewhere.\n\nOn April 18th 2018 their ninth studio album \"Exile Amongst the Ruins\" was released.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829892", "title": "Shiwa Ngandu", "text": "Shiwa Ngandu\n\nShiwa Ngandu (also spelled Shiwa Ng'andu) is a grand English-style country house and estate in Shiwang'andu District in the Muchinga Province of Zambia, previously in the Northern Province, about west of the nearby Great North Road and half-way between Mpika and Chinsali. Its name is based on a small lake nearby, Lake Ishiba Ng'andu which in the Bemba language means 'lake of the royal crocodile'. The house itself is also known as \"Shiwa House\". It was the lifelong project of an English aristocrat, Sir Stewart Gore-Browne who fell in love with the country after working on the Anglo-Belgian Boundary Commission determining the border between Rhodesia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nFrom his boyhood, Gore-Browne had an ambition to own an estate like that of his aunt, Dame Ethel Locke King, at Weybridge in England. Although comparatively wealthy himself, he could not afford such an estate in Britain. Land in Northern Rhodesia was very much cheaper for white settlers. At the boundary commission he had come to admire the Bemba workers and so he travelled to their country looking for a site. Arriving at Lake Shiwa Ngandu in April 1914 with his Bemba servants and porters, he knew he had found it. World War I intervened but its horrors only increased his desire to return to Shiwa Ngandu and achieve his dream. He also harboured the ideal of establishing a patrician regime of the kind whose time was ending in Britain after the war.\n\nConstruction of the mansion began in 1920 when Zambia was the British protectorate of Northern Rhodesia. The site was from the nearest railhead, a journey of many days over rivers and swamps. At that time there were no roads to the area. As well as building the estate's access roads and bridges, Gore-Browne built roads and bridges for the local colonial authority. Almost everything had to be made on site, including every brick used in the construction. Hundreds of labourers were employed, and with the help of oxen to haul the bricks in scorching heat, a substantial house was constructed within a few years. However, the building work did not stop until the late 1950s; an imposing gatehouse, a tower, colinaded porticoes, courtyards, additional rooms all added to its size and stature. Each of the stone panels used on the roof weighs 2.5 kilograms. \n\nThe house was surrounded by nursery gardens, tennis courts, a walled ladies' garden and much more. The estate followed in the tradition of 19th century utopian model villages like Saltaire and Port Sunlight. The estate is 12 500 hectares. The estate had its own schools, hospitals, playing fields, shops, and post office. Workers lived in brick-built cottages and the estate was ruled as a benevolent autocracy — though by a man with a temper ferocious enough to justify the local nickname of \"Chipembere\" which means 'rhinoceros'. He was also a very formal man who always wore black tie for dinner, at a table set with family plate and silver – whether he had guests or not.\n\nShiwa Ngandu's remoteness and isolation from white settler society in Northern Rhodesia's southern half and in Southern Rhodesia gave Gore-Browne a perspective on black Africans which led him to believe the country should develop in a more collaborative direction than the settler-ruled and segregationist Southern Rhodesia and apartheid South Africa. He involved himself in politics as detailed in his biographical article.\n\nThe estate never managed to make consistent and steady profits. The soil was too acidic for most crops, and after trying various other sources of revenue, they found a more stable income in the production of essential oils and citrus blossoms especially when the Second World War closed off supplies of essential oils from the rivieras of France and Bulgaria. However, his projects were heavily subsidized by Dame Ethel Locke King, with whom he was obsessively attached and corresponded from his childhood until her death. This source of revenue ended in 1958 when the citrus trees were attacked by a blight.\n\nStewart Gore-Browne died in Kasama, Zambia in 1967, and to this date is the only white man to have been given a state funeral in the history of Zambia, with a eulogy given by then President Kenneth Kaunda.\n\nAfter his death the estate was managed by one of his daughters, Lorna, and her husband John Harvey. They had four children, who grew up at the estate. They were filmed by the British Broadcasting Corporation travelogue series \"Pole to Pole\" in 1991, which included actor Michael Palin's visit to the estate. However, only six months later in 1992 Lorna and John Harvey were murdered at Shiwa Ngandu (see \"The Africa House\") by three men who were caught and convicted. They were ANC members living in exile in Zambia. The ANC disavowed any prior knowledge and condemned the murders, and although some property was stolen, possible motives remain speculative.\n\nIn the years following the murders the house fell into disrepair.\n\nRecently Shiwa House has been partially restored and has opened five rooms for paying guests under the name Shiwa Ngandu Manor House. An airstrip has been built for charter flights. The estate's remote beauty is once more accessible to visitors. Touring the estate is free for Zambian citizens. The grave of Sir Stewart is at rest in the extraordinary African paradise he created. Lorna and John Harvey's sons have reintroduced wildlife, and established a large cattle ranch. Poaching is under control, and the estate is proving to be a significant source of employment in the area.\n"}
{"id": "1829895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829895", "title": "USS Rodgers", "text": "USS Rodgers\n\nUSS \"Rodgers\" may refer to: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829897", "title": "United Nations Industrial Development Organization Goodwill Ambassador", "text": "United Nations Industrial Development Organization Goodwill Ambassador\n\nUNIDO Goodwill Ambassadors are expert advocates of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and use their talent and experience to advocate for sustainable industrial development in developing countries. Other United Nations Goodwill Ambassador programs usually take a celebrity approach.\n\nUNIDO Goodwill Ambassadors, and the year they were appointed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829909", "title": "Kisna: The Warrior Poet", "text": "Kisna: The Warrior Poet\n\nKisna: The Warrior Poet is an Indian Hindi film written, edited, produced and directed by Subhash Ghai and starring Vivek Oberoi (who plays the title role), Antonia Bernath, and Isha Sharvani. The musical film is set in the British India of the tumultuous 1940s when Indian nationalists fighting for the country's independence rose up as one, urging the British Raj to leave. It is a love story about two people who are torn between Karma (the noble deed) and Dharma (the duty). The film has two veteran composers, A. R. Rahman and Ismail Darbar; the lyrics were written by Javed Akhtar. The film marked Amrish Puri's last appearance as he had not signed or acted in any film after it before dying on 12 January 2005. The film, however, did not perform well at the box office. The film was premiered in the Marché du Film section of the 2005 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nLady Catherine, a wealthy British woman, arrives in India to donate Rs 3500 Crores to charity as part of India's Republic Day Celebrations. Before she can hand over the money, she requests a visit to Devprayag, where India's 2 great rivers Bhagirithi and Alaknanda meet to form the mighty Ganges River. At Devprayag, Lady Catherine remembers her childhood and narrates her story to the small crowd, which includes a journalist.\n\nCatherine was born in India in 1930, to British citizens living in the country. She had a privileged and peaceful upbringing. In 1935, a young Catherine befriends Kisna, a local village boy, and the two share a joyous friendship. Upon learning of this, Catherine's father forcefully sends her back to England.\n\nIn 1947, during the Independence Struggle, Catherine comes back to India on holidays and again meets Kisna. Their childhood friendship is rekindled and over time the feelings slowly develop into love. Their relationship is tested by the fact that they seemingly belong to the opposite sides of India's struggle for freedom. Kisna also reveals that he is engaged to be married to Lakshmi. \n\nThere is growing resentment against colonialism and Catherine finds herself being targeted by an enraged mob of Indian nationalists. She is protected by Kisna, who faces backlash from his family and community, who were part of the mob. Kisna is torn between his friendship and love for Catherine, and his duty to his country and the hatred of the British Raj. Kisna takes it upon himself to escort Catherine to the British High Commission, where safe passage back to England can be arranged for her. The trip reaffirms their love for each other but Kisna is ultimately forced to choose between his feelings for Catherine and his duty to his country. He chooses the latter and the pair bid an emotional farewell to each other. \n\nIn the present, it is revealed that Kisna married Lakshmi, and fulfilled his duties to his wife and country, but always loved Catherine till his death. His last wish was for his ashes to be spread at Devprayag, the place where first love blossomed between him and Catherine. Catherine's last wish is also for her ashes to be spread at Devprayag, so that, even though they both married different people, she and Kisna can be together forever.\n\n\nThe film was shot on sync sound under the direction of Dilip Subramaniam at Ranikhet on a budget of Rs.250 million ($5.48 million). Award-winning cinematographer Ashok Mehta, action director Tinu Verma, choreographer Saroj Khan, and production designer/art director Samir Chanda round out the crew.\n\n\"Kisna: The Warrior Poet\" has two versions. A two-hour English version for the international market while the Hindi version will be a regular three-hour feature film with songs and dances.\n\nSubhash Ghai combined the musical talent of A. R. Rahman and Ismail Darbar to create the soundtrack. Ghai roped in his usual associate Rahman originally, but had to sign in Ismail Darbar to complete the project as Rahman was busy with the works of \"The Lord of the Rings\". Ghai says: \"Rahman was my original choice because it is an international project and I wanted both the festive and soulful element of Indian music. However, he was busy with the \"Lord of Rings\" and excused (himself saying) that he won't be able to do the whole album. So he has done the theme song and the English song. Then I asked Ismail to do the rest because apart from Rahman he has the knowledge and ability to fuse Western and Indian classical music. The way he has used Ustad Rashid Khan's voice in \"Kahe Ujare Mori Neend\" is really captivating. The music has turned out so well that you can't distinguish an Ismail song from a Rahman one\".\n\nThe soundtrack got excellent reviews and was immensely praised. The lyrics were penned by Javed Akhtar. According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 12,00,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's twelfth highest-selling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829913", "title": "World Rugby Museum", "text": "World Rugby Museum\n\nThe World Rugby Museum re-opened in early February 2018 in the South Stand of Twickenham Stadium formerly opened as ‘The Museum of Rugby’ in 1996. It became the World Rugby Museum in 2007. \nIts collection comprises over 37,000 pieces of rugby memorabilia, boots, balls, jerseys, programmes, match-tickets, books and assorted paraphernalia.\n\nIt is not to be confused with the World Rugby Hall of Fame, sponsored by the sport's international governing body of World Rugby and physically located in Rugby.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum has several fluid exhibition spaces in which it rotates objects from its collection and curates a regular programme of special exhibitions.\n\nPast exhibitions have included: HQ at 100, One Century Hundreds of Moments. More Than A Tour, the 1905 All-Blacks. Core Values: The Life and Work of Gerald Laing. England 2010, the Women's Rugby World Cup. Lest We Forget: Rugby and the First World War. Brave Blossoms: The History of Rugby in Japan.\n\nPermanent exhibitions include: The 1871 Room, Amateurs and Professionals, Wartime Rugby, 6-Nations Gallery, Rugby World Cup and What Kind of Rugby Player Are You Interactive Gallery.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum’s education facilities predominantly comprise its ‘Workshops and Seminars’ programme.\n\nWorkshops involve a series of hands-on, curriculum-focused active-learning sessions, such as: ‘Rugby Strips & Textiles’, ‘What Kind of Rugby Player Are You?’ and ‘Stadium Director.\n\nSeminars are delivered by professionals from within the Rugby Football Union and include: ‘Twickenham Control’, ‘Commercial Twickenham’ and ‘History of Rugby and Football in Britain'.\n\n‘Workshops and Seminars’ received the Sandford Award for Heritage Education in 2010 and 2015.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum has the most extensive collection of rugby football memorabilia in the world and includes over 25,000 recorded objects, 7,000 pieces of archival material and 7-8,000 photographs.\n\nIt includes the RFU collection, the Harry Langton Collection and the RFU Rugby Archive.\n\nStar items include: the Calcutta Cup, the 2003 Rugby World Cup, an 1871 England Jersey and Cap and an 1888 Anglo-Australian Tour Jersey and Cap.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum is a museum of international rugby history and includes objects from all over the globe.\n\nThe Rugby Archive consists of over 7,000 pieces of archival material including books, match-programmes, minutes and club histories.\n\nStar items include: Rugby Football Union minutes 1871-1949, the 1907 Twickenham Stadium deeds, a photograph album relating to the first British and Irish lions Tour of South Africa in 1891, the original 'Football Rules' as produced at Rugby School in 1845 and the Rugby Football Union's 1871 'Proposed Laws of the Game'.\n\nThe archive does not operate a lending facility but students and private researchers can use the resource upon appointment.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum operates Twickenham Stadium Tours that provide privileged access to areas within Twickenham Stadium, the English national rugby stadium.\n\nThe World Rugby Museum comes under the umbrella of the Rugby Football Foundation, a charitable trust established by the Rugby Football Union. \n\n"}
{"id": "1829918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829918", "title": "Salvage ethnography", "text": "Salvage ethnography\n\nSalvage ethnography is the recording of the practices and folklore of cultures threatened with extinction, including as a result of modernization. It is generally associated with the American anthropologist Franz Boas; he and his students aimed to record vanishing Native American cultures. Since the 1960s, anthropologists have used the term as part of a critique of 19th-century ethnography and early modern anthropology. \n\nThe term \"salvage ethnography\" was coined by Jacob W. Gruber, who identified its emergence with 19th-century ethnographers documenting the languages of peoples being conquered and colonized by European countries or the United States. According to Gruber, one of the first official statements acknowledging that a major effect of colonialism was the destruction of existing languages and ways of life was \"The report of the British Select Committee of Aborigines\" (1837). \n\nAs a scholarly response, Gruber quotes James Cowles Prichard's address before the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1839, referring to the Old Testament tale of Cain and Abel:\nFrances Densmore (1867–1957), an influential ethnomusicologist, worked in the tradition of salvage ethnography. Densmore recorded the songs and lyrics of Native Americans in an attempt to preserve them permanently. Many of her original recordings, preserved on wax cylinders, are archived at the Library of Congress.\n\nArtists compounded the work of professional anthropologists during this time period. Photographer Edward S. Curtis (1868–1952) was preceded by painter George Catlin (1796–1872) in attempting to capture indigenous North American traditions that they believed to be disappearing. Both Curtis and Catlin have been accused of taking artistic license by embellishing a scene or making something appear more authentically \"Native American\". Curtis notes in the introduction to his series on the North American Indian: \"The information that is to be gathered ... respecting the mode of life of one of the great races of mankind, must be collected at once or the opportunity will be lost.\" This statement reflects the artist's paternalistic concern for documenting the culture of American Indians and is representative of both the popular and academic sentiment of the time.\n\nSalvage ethnography started to be applied methodically in visual anthropology as ethnographic film since the 1950s by filmmakers such as Jean Rouch in France, Michel Brault and Pierre Perrault in Canada, or António Campos in Portugal (early 1960s), followed by others (1970s).\n\nSalvage ethnography is often taught in film and media studies courses as a style of filmmaking that captures a civilization or people's former way of living. The best example of this would be Robert Flaherty's \"Nanook of the North\". In \"Nanook\", Flaherty staged incidents and scenes that did not fairly represent the Inuit tribe's current way of life, but rather their \"former majesty\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829920", "title": "Clemens Krauss", "text": "Clemens Krauss\n\nClemens Heinrich Krauss (31 March 189316 May 1954) was an Austrian conductor and opera impresario, particularly associated with the music of Richard Strauss.\n\nKrauss was born in Vienna to Clementine Krauss, then a 15-year-old dancer in the Vienna Imperial Opera Ballet, later a leading actress and operetta singer, niece of the prominent nineteenth-century operatic soprano Gabrielle Krauss. His natural father, Chevalier Hector Baltazzi (1851-1916), came from a family of wealthy Phanariot bankers resident in Vienna. Baltazzi's older sister Helene was married to Baron Albin Vetsera and was the mother of Baroness Mary Vetsera, who was accordingly Clemens Krauss' first cousin.\n\nKrauss sang in the Hofkapelle (Imperial Choir) as a Vienna Choir Boy. He graduated from the Vienna Conservatory in 1912, after studying composition with Hermann Graedener and theory with Richard Heuberger there. He was then appointed chorus master in the Brno Theater (1912-1913), where he made his conducting debut in 1913. The famous Romanian soprano Viorica Ursuleac, who often sang under him, became his second wife.\n\nKrauss made the rounds of regional centers, conducting in Riga (1913-1914), Nuremberg (1915) and Stettin (1916-1921) (formerly part of Pomerania in Germany; now part of Poland). The latter appointment gave him ample opportunity to travel to Berlin to hear Arthur Nikisch conduct the Berlin Philharmonic, a major influence. He then returned to Austria as director of the opera and symphony concerts in Graz. In 1922, he joined the conducting staff of the Vienna State Opera and teacher of the conducting class in the Vienna Singakademie. He conducted the Vienna Tonkünstler concerts from 1923 to 1927, and was Intendant of the opera in Frankfurt and director of the Museum concerts there from 1924 to 1929.\n\nHe guest-conducted in the United States in 1929, with the Philadelphia Orchestra and New York Philharmonic. Also in 1929, he was appointed director of the Vienna State Opera. Its orchestra, which was part of the independent concert entity known as the Vienna Philharmonic, appointed him its music director in 1930. He was a regular conductor at the Salzburg Festival from 1926 to 1934, where in 1930 he conducted Alban Berg's avant-garde atonal opera \"Wozzeck\".\n\nKrauss gave up his Vienna positions in 1933-34 to direct the Berlin State Opera in 1935 after Erich Kleiber had resigned in protest against Nazi policies. In 1933, he took over the preparations for the premieres of Richard Strauss's opera \"Arabella\" after the departure of conductor Fritz Busch (another non-Jewish anti-Nazi). Krauss's own position on Nazism was unclear, although he did enjoy a close relationship with Nazi official Alfred Frauenfeld and it has been claimed that he sought Nazi Party membership in 1933. However, throughout the 1930s he and his wife were involved in helping Jews escape from Germany. After befriending British novelist Ida Cook and her sister Mary, both opera fans, he gave cover to their smuggling operation (started after Viorica asked the Cooks to assist a Jewish friend). Munich Opera House shows were arranged around the times and cities that the Cooks needed to make contact with escapees.\n\nIn 1937, he was appointed Intendant of the National Theatre Munich following Hans Knappertsbusch's resignation. He became a close friend of Strauss, and even wrote the libretto for his opera \"Capriccio\" which he premiered in Munich in 1942. He also conducted the premieres of Strauss's operas \"Friedenstag\" and \"Die Liebe der Danae\". During the early 1940s, he taught at the Mozarteum University of Salzburg where among his pupils was composer Roman Toi.\n\nAfter the Munich opera house had been destroyed by Allied bombing, Krauss returned to conduct the Vienna Philharmonic in 1944-45 until it ceased activities shortly before the end of World War II. After the war, Allied officials investigated his career and forbade him from appearing in public until 1947, when it emerged that he had helped Jews escape from the Third Reich. Krauss then resumed conducting many of the Vienna Philharmonic's concerts, including its famous annual New Year's Day pops concerts featuring Johann and Josef Strauss waltzes, overtures and polkas, many of which were recorded for Decca along with other studio recordings of mostly Johann, Josef and Richard Strauss.\n\nHe conducted opera at Covent Garden in London starting in 1951, and at the 1953 Bayreuth Festival (including an impressive Wagner Ring cycle now available on CD, starring Astrid Varnay as Brunnhilde). He also recorded a highly regarded Parsifal at Bayreuth, starring Martha Mödl as Kundry, in 1953, at the height of Mödl's brief prime.\n\nHe died in 1954 while on tour with the Vienna Philharmonic in Mexico City, and is buried alongside his wife, singer Viorica Ursuleac, who died in 1985, in Ehrwald, Austria.\n\nKrauss made relatively few recordings; they include his 1950 Decca rendition of Johann Strauss II's \"Die Fledermaus\", with the Vienna Philharmonic and State Opera star soloists (not including any of the dialogue; only the second complete recording after a pre–World War I acoustical 78 set made in Berlin). His 1953 live performance of Richard Wagner's \"Ring Cycle\" from Bayreuth has been released on disc. A performance with the Vienna Symphony of Beethoven's \"Choral Fantasy\", reissued on more than one inexpensive label since its original appearance on a Vox LP, is also one of the few recordings featuring pianist Friedrich Wührer. All three have been reissued on compact disc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829923", "title": "Tony Poeta", "text": "Tony Poeta\n\nAnthony Joseph Poeta (March 4, 1933 – May 2, 2004) was a professional ice hockey player from 1950 to 1960.\n\nPoeta played for teams in the National Hockey League, Ontario Hockey Association, American Hockey League, International Hockey League, QHL, Northern Ontario Hockey Association, EOHL, and the European Hockey League.\n\nHe only played one game in the NHL and that was with the Chicago Black Hawks. In that one game he scored no goals, earned no assists for no points. He also had no penalty minutes.\n\nPoeta played for the World Champion Belleville McFarlands in 1959.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829930", "title": "1997 Croatian Chamber of Counties election", "text": "1997 Croatian Chamber of Counties election\n\nElections for the Second Assembly of the Chamber of Counties of the Croatian Parliament were held in Croatia on 13 April 1997. The result was a victory for the Croatian Democratic Union, which won 40 of the 63 elected seats. This was the last election for the Chamber of Counties, which was abolished through a constitutional amendment on 29 March 2001. UNTAES facilitated the conduct of elections in the United Nations protectorate region of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Syrmia.\n\n \n\nFranjo Tuđman, as President of Croatia, had the constitutional right to appoint up to five members of the Chamber of Counties. He chose to exercise that right by naming Ivan Aralica, Jovan Bamburač, Slobodan Lang, Vojislav Stanimirović and Zlatko Vitez to the chamber.\n"}
{"id": "1829938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829938", "title": "Brenda's Got a Baby", "text": "Brenda's Got a Baby\n\n\"Brenda's Got a Baby\" is the second single by Tupac Shakur from his debut album \"2Pacalypse Now\". The song, which features R&B singer Dave Hollister singing background vocals with Roniece Levias, is about a 12-year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto and has a baby she can't support. The song explores the issue of teen pregnancy and its effect on young mothers and their families. Like many of Shakur's songs, \"Brenda's Got a Baby\" draws from the plight of the impoverished. Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general, Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby's father, the government, and society in general. Shakur wrote the song while filming the feature film Juice, after reading a newspaper article about a 12-year-old girl who became pregnant by her cousin and threw the baby into a trash compactor.\n\nThe opening consists of a duet singing the song's title twice. Much of the rest of the song is one long verse performed by Tupac.\n\nThe verse begins with Tupac telling a group that he has heard about Brenda's pregnancy. He also notes that she has had virtually no education, and calls this a \"damn shame\" because she has little hope of a future. Her family is very poor and her father is a drug addict. Brenda is impregnated by her unnamed boyfriend, who is also her cousin, but she is successfully able to hide her pregnancy. Tupac explains that her family wouldn't care if she gave birth, as long as they got their cut of the government assistance.\n\nAlthough she believes that her cousin (her baby's father) will stay with her and help her raise their child, he is merely a molester, and abandons her before she gives birth on the bathroom floor. She throws the baby into a 'trash heap' but later retrieves it when she hears it crying. Her mother scolds her severely, and Brenda becomes so ashamed of herself that she runs away from home.\n\nBrenda is now forced to live alone, and unsuccessfully seeks employment. Her attempt to sell crack cocaine results in robbery, and eventually she views prostitution as her only way to earn money and survive. This life path leads to her getting murdered. The fates of her parents, her cousin, and the baby are left unexplained. The song's final minute consists of a chorus singing \"Don't you know she's got a baby?\" repeatedly. The beginning of the song can be heard in The Game's song \"Street Riders\"\n2Pac has another song which he made late in his career which deals with this same subject called \"Mama's Just a Little Girl\". The song can be found on his fourth posthumous studio album \"Better Dayz\".\n\nThe video of the song is in black-and-white. It was made to visualize what Shakur narrates. The first part shows Shakur and \"Brenda\" and then the actual story starts. Ethel \"Edy\" Proctor portrays Brenda.\n\nThe video begins with \"based on a true story,\" although the characters themselves are fictitious, Shakur wrote the song after reading a story in the newspaper of a 12-year-old girl getting pregnant by her cousin and trying to dispose of the baby in a trash can. \n\nParts of the video were included in \"\", a 2003 documentary on 2Pac's life, in a television show later in the music video of \"Ghetto Gospel\", in the music video of \"Changes\" and appears as a bonus in its entirety on the film's DVD. Part of the video and song was played in 2Pac's biopic film, \"All Eyez on Me\", released on June 16, 2017.\n\nThe video was directed by the Hughes brothers.\n"}
{"id": "1829942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829942", "title": "In a Mirror, Darkly", "text": "In a Mirror, Darkly\n\n\"In a Mirror, Darkly\" is the eighteenth and nineteenth episodes of the of the American science fiction television series \"\", and originally aired on April 22 and 29, 2005. This installment was developed to be a sequel to \"\" episode \"The Tholian Web\" and a prequel to \"\". The decision to set an \"Enterprise\" episode in the mirror universe originated with a pitch to enable William Shatner to appear in the series. The teleplays for both parts of the episode were written by Mike Sussman, with Manny Coto contributing the story for the second part.\n\nSet in the 22nd century, the series normally follows the adventures of the first Starfleet starship \"Enterprise\", registration NX-01. However, these installments feature a mirror universe Jonathan Archer and evil counterparts of the normal characters, who serve the cruel and militaristic Terran Empire. In the first part, the ISS \"Enterprise\" learns of a Starfleet ship from the future of the main universe which is being stripped for parts by the Tholians, and seeks to take the ship from the aliens. The second part sees the surviving crew operating the USS \"Defiant\" and seeking to overthrow the Empire using its advanced weaponry.\n\nThe episode saw the reuse of footage from \"\" and the creation of an alternative opening credits sequence which included footage from other Paramount properties such as the film \"The Hunt for Red October\". A three-quarters-around bridge from \"The Original Series\" era was constructed, as well as other sets from a \"Constitution\"-class starship. A Gorn and a Tholian were both created using CGI, with the Gorn utilizing motion capture techniques. This installment also saw the return of Vaughn Armstrong as after his main universe character was killed on screen earlier in the season in the episode \"\". This episode subsequently appeared in several lists of the best episodes of \"Star Trek: Enterprise\". It was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Hairstyling for a Series in 2005.\n\nIn 2063, a Vulcan ship lands on Earth, making first contact with humans (as seen in \"\"). Instead of peacefully greeting them, Zefram Cochrane shoots the lead Vulcan and the humans storm and loot the ship. In 2155, Doctor Phlox and Major Reed demonstrate a new torture device to Captain Forrest and Commander Archer on the ISS \"Enterprise\". Archer suggests to Forrest they travel into Tholian space, as he has heard rumors of technology they might wish to steal. The two argue, and Forrest returns to his quarters where he is comforted by Lieutenant Sato. When he leaves, he is ambushed by Archer and several (a military team) and sent to the brig.\n\nArcher travels to the bridge and announces that he has taken command. After torturing a Tholian pilot for coordinates, he orders a change of course to the shipyard, and tells Commander T'Pol, whom he promotes to first officer, to install a Suliban cloaking device with Commander Tucker. Archer also appoints Sergeant Mayweather as his personal guard, and Sato proposes that she keep her job as Captain's woman. Archer has Sato send a message to Starfleet about their mission to raid the Tholian technology. Tucker is injured when the cloaking device is sabotaged. Archer questions Forrest, who denies all knowledge, and Reed tortures Tucker expecting him to be the saboteur.\n\nT'Pol leads a team to free Forrest and reclaim the ship, but Archer encrypts navigation control to prevent a course change. Forrest tortures Archer, but orders his release after he receives word that Starfleet agrees with Archer's plans. Archer shows images of an alternate universe vessel from the future named USS \"Defiant\" (a \"Constitution\"-class starship, last seen in \"The Tholian Web\"), that has technology and power that is a than ISS \"Enterprise\". On arriving at the shipyard, Archer, T'Pol, and Tucker transport across, and Tucker begins powering up the vessel. Tholian vessels then attack, creating an energy web around \"Enterprise\". Forrest orders the crew to abandon ship but remains behind as the ship is destroyed.\n\nSeveral Tholian ships then create a web over the opening of the dock to prevent \"Defiant\" from leaving. T'Pol and Tucker restore power to the weapon systems, allowing \"Defiant\" to destroy enough enemy vessels to escape the trap. They recover 47 survivors from \"Enterprise\", and Tucker is ordered to restore power to the warp drive. Sato goes to the captain's quarters and finds Archer perusing the ship's historical records, which includes parallel universe information about Starfleet, the United Federation of Planets, and their service records. Archer is surprised to learn his counterpart is an acclaimed and distinguished explorer, diplomat and politician.\n\nEnsign Kelby is killed trying to repair the warp drive, and the crew discover, from Tholian slaves left on board, that a Gorn named Slar has sabotaged the ship. Archer, after hearing voices telling him to achieve more fame and honor, decides to lead an assault team and kills the Gorn. Tucker is able to repair the warp drive and the ship then leaves to rendezvous with the ISS \"Avenger\", arriving in time to save it from four rebel spacecraft. \"Avenger\" commanding officer Admiral Black comes aboard for an inspection accompanied by his first officer, . After Black refuses Archer's request for captaincy of the new ship, Archer disintegrates him with a phaser pistol.\n\nArcher gives a speech to the officers of both ships, saying that they should move against Starfleet and the Empire. Soval and T'Pol meet, contemplating a future where alien species are respected and treated as equals; they convince Phlox to join their movement and sabotage \"Defiant\". As the sole alien allowed to remain on board, he succeeds in disabling the ship's systems. Soval, on \"Avenger\", then attacks, but Tucker disables Phlox and restores power. \"Defiant\" destroys its attacker. When Sato and Archer celebrate in the captain's quarters, Archer dies after being poisoned by Sato and we see that Mayweather is now in league with Sato. Reaching Earth on the advanced and powerful \"Defiant\", Sato contacts Admiral Gardner, demanding his surrender and declaring herself \"Empress Sato\".\n\nThe idea of returning to the mirror universe in \"Enterprise\" was first suggested by Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens. In \"\", the tantalus field was used on several occasions and was thought to be a disintegrator. The Reeves-Stevenses proposed that it could be explained that instead of killing its victims, the field instead transported them back through time to a penal colony in the main universe. The \"Enterprise\" would then come across the penal colony, meeting Tiberius, portrayed by William Shatner.\n\nTiberius would seek to use the transporter aboard the \"Enterprise\" to return to his own universe, but discovers that it has not yet diverged from the main universe and does not exist. The episode would then have explored the creation of the mirror universe through actions by Tiberius and Captain Archer. The storyline was pitched by Shatner, who had worked with the Reeves-Stevenses on the Shatnerverse series of \"Star Trek\" novels, to Manny Coto, Brannon Braga and Rick Berman. Berman had already received a pitch by Mike Sussman that would have Shatner portray an ancestor of Captain Kirk, who happened to be the chef on the \"Enterprise\" (NX-01). The three pitched the idea to Shatner, but negotiations fell through and terms were not agreed on for him to appear on the show.\n\nSussman began development on a script that saw the USS \"Defiant\" from \"The Tholian Web\" being brought back in time, instead of Tiberius. It was intended to be a sequel to that episode, as well as a prequel to \"Mirror, Mirror\". Sussman developed the teleplays for both parts of the episode, with Coto contributing the story for the second half. It was decided to have the entire installment in the mirror universe in order to maintain the events of \"Mirror, Mirror\" as being first contact between the two universes. The mirror universe features evil duplicates of the characters from the normal universe. Sussman had previously sought to use the \"Defiant\" in the second-season episode \"\", but both costs and issues with the plot resulted in it being replaced with a previously unseen timeship.\n\nThe first part of \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" was the 700th live-action \"Star Trek\" episode broadcast. On the sixth day of filming the second part of the episode, news was received that \"Star Trek: Enterprise\" had been cancelled by UPN as of the end of the season, which meant that \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" would be installments 94 and 95 of \"Enterprise\" 98-episode run. \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" was Sussman's final contribution to the show; he had previously been a staff writer on \"\" and worked in the \"Star Trek\" franchise for ten years. He later described it as his favorite episode of \"Star Trek\", saying that \"I knew when I was writing them that they would almost certainly be the last episodes I would be writing for this particular incarnation of Star Trek, so I really treasured the experience.\" Part of Manny Coto's plans for season five of \"Enterprise\" would have included a return to the mirror universe crew first seen in \"In a Mirror, Darkly\". It would have been across four or five installments, which Coto described as a \"mini-series within a series\".\n\nThe opening sequence featured the reuse of footage from \"Star Trek: First Contact\", where Zefram Cochrane makes first contact with the Vulcans, for which both James Cromwell and Cully Fredricksen agreed to accept Screen Actors Guild minimum salaries. Herman Zimmerman had kept the lower portion of the Vulcan vessel from that scene, and made it available to use for reshoots. While \"Enterprise\" was normally shot in digital, the mirror-\"First Contact\" scenes were shot on film so that they would match the appearance of the original footage. An alternative opening credits sequence was created, which Sussman credited Coto for. It featured footage used in other Paramount Pictures productions, including the Soviet nuclear submarine \"Konovalov\" firing a torpedo from \"The Hunt for Red October\". Other elements include an atomic explosion, battleships, tanks and fighter jets.\n\nZimmerman led the construction of a full three-quarters around set to represent the bridge of the USS \"Defiant\", which was used from the final day of filming the first part of this episode. It was the first time that a bridge set of that scale from a \"Constitution\"-class starship from \"The Original Series\" had been used since the final episode \"Turnabout Intruder\" was aired in 1969. Senior illustrator Doug Drexler was involved in the design; he had previously worked on the research that went into re-creating parts of \"The Original Series\" era USS \"Enterprise\" for the \"\" episode \"Trials and Tribble-ations\", as well as a set which was exhibited in Hyde Park in London. Other designers included in the creation of the set were Anna Packard, Michael Okuda and James Van Over. The actual construction of the set was in the hands of Tom Arp and his team. Sussman said of the set, \"I think the bridge set is remarkable. I hope fans will be thrilled to see that set again in all of its glory. I feel that it probably looks better than the original in many respects, if you compare them side by side.\"\nThe bridge of the \"Enterprise\" had previously been recreated twice in \"Star Trek\" series since the end of \"The Original Series\". In the \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\" episode \"\", only the engineering console was reconstructed, with the Captain's chair and the navigation consoles rented from a fan and the remaining consoles were edited in digitally using blue screens. Incomplete sets were also recreated for the \"Deep Space Nine\" episode \"Trials and Tribble-ations\", but these involved digitally inserting the actors into previous footage of \"The Original Series\" and so a full bridge set was not recreated.\n\nFurther sets for the \"Defiant\" were created for the second part of the episode, which included designs previously used in \"Trials and Tribble-ations\" for the Jefferies tube. The other sets included the Rec Room, Captain's quarters and the briefing room. Classic \"Original Series\" style uniforms were worn by some the main cast in the second installment, although as each vessel of that era had a slightly different Starfleet logo, one had to be designed for the Defiant as it hadn't previously been seen on screen. Bakula wore the wrap-around green uniform previously worn by Shatner in several episodes including \"The Trouble with Tribbles\", while Trinneer, Keating and Montgomery donned red shirts. Bakula joked \"Did we run out of material for Jolene's skirt?\" as Blalock wore the science-blue miniskirt in the style of that worn by Christine Chapel. The normal \"Enterprise\" costumes also underwent changes, with those worn by female members of the crew having a portion removed to reveal their midriffs.\n\n\"Original Series\" props such as phasers and PADDs were also created for the episode. Despite the mirror-\"Enterprise\" being destroyed in the first installment, during the second episode the standing sets were reused to represent the ISS \"Avenger\". Both a Tholian and a Gorn were created in post production using CGI. The Gorn in particular required an actor in a tracking suit to allow the actors to interact with the character and give the animators something to overlay the CGI on. Stunt coordinator Vince Deadrick, Jr. wore the suit for scenes that required movement, while David Anderson wore it for static shots. Sussman also wrote biographies for Archer and Hoshi that would briefly appear on screen. Included in these were references to Archer becoming President of the Federation and that a planet called Archer IV that had previously appeared in \"Star Trek: The Next Generation\" was in fact named after him.\n\nThe episode saw the return of Vaughn Armstrong as Captain Maximilian Forest. His main universe character, Rear Admiral Maxwell Forest, had been killed earlier in the season in the episode \"\". Both Bakula and Armstrong joked about the character suffering two deaths during the same season, although Armstrong also said of the relationship between mirror-Forrest and mirror-Hoshi that \"In 25 years [of acting], I haven't gotten the girl, but I come back here and I get the girl! This is great.\" Gary Graham returned as the Vulcan Soval, who was a science officer aboard the Avenger in the mirror universe rather than his normal position of the Vulcan Ambassador. Graham was given a goatee beard in reference to the mirror universe Spock from \"Mirror, Mirror\".\n\nOther guest stars in \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" included Gregory Itzin, who had previously appeared as a Vulcan commando in \"Shadows of P'Jem\" as well as episodes of \"Star Trek: Voyager\" and \"Deep Space Nine\". Derek Magyar returned for his third appearance as Kelby after previously appearing in \"\" and \"\". Writer Mike Sussman also appeared on screen, as one of the dead \"Defiant\" crew-members. With this episode, actress Majel Barrett, widow of \"Star Trek\" creator Gene Roddenberry, became the only actor to participate in every \"Star Trek\" series, including the Animated Series, as well as both the \"Original Series\"-based and \"Next Generation\"-based film series. In this episode, she provided the voice of the starship \"Defiant\"s computer. Her voice continued to be used as that of Starfleet computers after the cancellation of \"Enterprise\" in the J. J. Abrams led \"Star Trek\" films.\n\nThese installments saw significant changes to the characters of the main cast. Linda Park, who plays Hoshi Sato in the series, later said that they were her favorite episodes of the show. She later explained that \"Mirror Hoshi was strong in the way that Medea is strong, in the way that Clytemnestra is strong, in this very archetypal, warrior-woman way.\" She credited the role she played in this episode as demonstrating that she could play a tougher character, something which allowed her to gain other roles once the series ended.\n\nThe Gorn featured in this episode, was previously introduced to the Star Trek science fiction universe in the original series episode \", which aired January 19, 1967. In that case a Gorn costume was used, while a computer generated graphic was used for this \"Star Trek Enterprise\" episode.\n\nThe first part of \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" aired on April 22, 2005, on UPN in the United States. It received a 2.0/3% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. This means that it was seen by 2 percent of all households, and 3 percent of all of those watching television at the time of the broadcast. This placed UPN fifth out of the major networks during the installment's hour of broadcast, ahead of The WB. This was the only time during the primetime hours that UPN placed ahead of The WB. The second part aired the following week on April 29. Ratings were similar to the first episode, with another 2.0/3% score recorded, and again placing fifth during the timeslot ahead of The WB.\n\nDavid Bianculli at the \"Daily News\" thought that \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" was the best episode of \"Enterprise\" so far and enjoyed that the actors could play against type for their characters. He gave the episode a score of three and a half out of four and said that it was so much fun that \"had they adopted this attitude from the start, \"Enterprise\" probably would still be flying missions next season.\" When reviewing the first part for TrekNation, Michelle Erica Green said that her favorite part was the modified opening sequence, and described it as \"fun and lighthearted in a twisted sort of way\" but thought that the closing episodes of the series would have been better if they had concentrated on the real crew and ship. She thought that the second installment saw the series \"stretching a clever idea too thin\", and that a \"one-hour 'Mirror' would have made more sense in terms of the pacing and for Enterprise as a whole.\"\n\nJamahl Epsicokhan at his website Jammer's Reviews gave the first episode a score of three out of four, and the second part a score of two and a half. He described it as an \"evil comic book\", and regarding the first part, \"To call this episode over-the-top would be an understatement. This is a go-for-broke hour of lunatic madness.\" His view on the second part was that the re-created sets were impressive, but \"it goes so far over the top that it comes back around and kicks itself in its own ass. It's overplayed, overacted, and over-goofy.\"\n\n\"In a Mirror, Darkly\" has been featured in several \"Best of\" episode lists. In 2009, it was ranked the best episode of \"Star Trek: Enterprise\" by James Hunt at the website \"Den of Geek\". He said that \"although the novelty value of seeing the cast playing cartoonishly evil versions of themselves is a good enough reason to watch this 2-parter, \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" manages to include some of \"Enterprise\" most inventive moments, not least the revised opening credits\". \"Empire\" magazine ranked it the second best episode behind \"Terra Prime\". Jay Garmon at TechRepublic ranked it as the fifth best episode, saying that the writers managed to include a \"gleefully malicious and fatal series of unexpected double-crosses, but also work in some of the most satisfying and coherent mythology gags that \"Enterprise\" ever displayed\". In a list of the top 100 episodes of the \"Star Trek\" franchise, \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" was placed in 40th place by Charlie Jane Anders at io9.\n\nIn 2009, \"Den of Geek\" ranked this the number one best episode of this television series.\n\nW.I.R.E.D. (United Kingdom edition) recommended \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" as one of the best episodes of the franchise, in their review of episodes to watch on a video streaming service. In 2017, SyFy ranked this the fifth best mirror universe episode of \"Star Trek\", which they note is a two-part episode and ties in with the lost USS Defiant spacecraft of the original series.\n\nIn 2016, \"Empire\" ranked this the 46th best out of the top 50 episodes of all the 700 plus \"Star Trek\" television episodes.\n\nIn 2017, Vulture.com noted \"In a Mirror, Darkly\" as an episode where the show \"Hit its stride\", also noting the Borderland trilogy which featured actor Brent Spiner.\n\nLaura Connolly, Roma Goddard and Michael Moore were nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Hairstyling For A Series for their work on this episode. The award instead went to an episode of \"Deadwood\".\n\n\"In a Mirror, Darkly\" was first released for home viewing as part of the \"Star Trek: Enterprise\" series four box set. It was released on region one DVD in the United States on November 1, 2005. The set included a fifteen-minute-long documentary on the origins of the episode and background to the mirror universe in general as well as audio commentary from Mike Sussman and Tim Gaskill on both parts of the episode. The commentary had previously been released on the official \"Star Trek\" website, where Gaskill is the editorial director. It subsequently became one of three \"Enterprise\" episodes to be included in the \"Star Trek: Alternative Realities Collective\" DVD set which was released in 2009. The other episodes were \"E²\" and \"\", and also featured were other mirror universe installments including \"Mirror, Mirror\" and three of those from \"Deep Space Nine\". The Blu-ray edition was released on April 1, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829944", "title": "Raincoat (film)", "text": "Raincoat (film)\n\nRaincoat is a 2004 Indian drama film directed by Rituparno Ghosh, and starring Ajay Devgn and Aishwarya Rai. It tells the story of two lovers, separated by destiny, who meet again one day. This encounter allows each to realize the truth about the lives they are living. It is an adaptation of the short story \"The Gift of the Magi\" (1906) by O. Henry.\n\nThe film won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi and was nominated for the Crystal Globe for Best Feature Film at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival. Rai also won the Zee Cine Award for Critics' Choice Best Actress and was nominated for the Filmfare Best Actress Award and Star Screen Award Best Actress.\n\nThe story begins with unemployed Mannu (Ajay Devgn), from Bhagalpur in search of money to finance his new business as he has lost his earlier job at a jute mill. On his quest, he visits Neeru (Aishwarya Rai) in Calcutta, to whom he was engaged six years ago. During the rainy evening, the couple reminisce about their former love and how each ended up in their current situation.\n\nNeeru pretends to lead a happy and prosperous life. She gestures to her former lover during various instances, particularly when the door bell rings and she persuades Mannu not to open the door. They go on talking about their past and present with multiple flashbacks.\n\nThe raincoat comes to play when Neeru wears it to go out and fetch some food. The landlord (Annu Kapoor) speaks of the real situation of the household, and prompts Mannu to give his borrowed money as rent for the house. Mannu leaves a letter under the bed sheet explaining things. When Neeru returns he does not say anything about his encounter with her landlord. After some time Mannu leaves. Later, when he puts his hand inside the pocket of his raincoat, he finds a pair of gold bangles that belonged to Neeru, along with a letter saying that she had a lot of money and he should have told her about his financial situation. She had actually read a letter that was inside the raincoat that informed her about Mannu's condition.\n\n\nDebajyoti Mishra experimented with the music of the film. The songs are all background numbers. Famous classical singer Shubha Mudgal lends her voice for the title track. Songs are listed below.\n\nThe song \"Piya Tora Kaisa Abhimaan\" is sung by Raghav Chattopadhya and not by Hariharan. Hariharan had recorded this song for the film but the picturisation of this song is by Raghav Chattopadhya.\n\nThe Times Of India gave a three stars out of five. Rediff cited \"Some films attempt to showcase a series of wonderful moments and tend to go overboard. \"Raincoat\" captures just one poignant moment and tells it as simply it can, leaving you with a wow. For someone heralded as the most beautiful woman in the world, Aishwarya Rai looks terrifyingly depressing in the film. Her Neeru looks cynical to the point of suicide. And that's a compliment. Her body language is a strange mix of a passive housewife and a passionate girlfriend. Though the effort to sound rustic shows, the restraint in her dialogue delivery and performance is commendable. Hesitation, desperation, humiliation -- Ajay Devgan conveys them eloquently. He particularly stands out in the scenes where he cries in the bathroom, or begs Neeru not to marry someone else\".\n\nThe Hindu stated \"\"Raincoat\"... essentially a chamber piece, it weaves a narrative with just two characters in most of the frames. \"Raincoat\" can easily be Aishwarya Rai's best performance, and as Neerja, the former beauty queen appears to have shed her inhibitions about looking unglamorous. In fact, most of time, Rai looks quite plain. What is more, she seems to have made an earnest effort to emote, using less of her body and limbs and more of her face, and eyes in particular. Ajay Devagan as Manoj is Devagan, as we have seen him in an umpteen number of parts earlier, although Ghosh draws the actor out of a certain woodenness that he is known for\".\n\nTaran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama said \"On the whole, \"Raincoat\" will appeal to a handful of critics and connoisseurs of art house cinema who'll heap lavish praises/lustrous words, but from the box-office point of view, \"Raincoat\" will face stormy weather at the ticket window\".\n\nDerek Elley from Variety (magazine) described it as \"\"Raincoat\" is a chamber-sized gem. Melancholic, rainy afternoon drama, almost entirely set in a single house, features meaty roles for two of Indian cinema's biggest stars, Aishwarya Rai and Ajay Devgan, in very different guises from their usual Bollywood ones. Though pic is unlikely to score big locally when it goes out in August against more commercial heavy-hitters like \"Swades\" and \"The Rising\", \"Raincoat\" could build a solid rep at fests, with some pickups by specialized webs and niche distribs. As in Ghosh's previous pic, \"Chokher Bali: A Passion Play\" (2003), Rai reveals herself as a considerable actress given the right script and direction, far from the comic-romantic roles in most of her Bollywood productions. Shunning her usual immaculate makeup and duds, and looking more like a broken, malfunctioning doll, she makes Niru a mixture of child and temptress/charmer, driven by capricious moods and clearly unhappy inside. It's the showier of the two perfs, but Devgan, in ultra low-key mode, is equally impressive, especially in the latter stages as his great love for the woman he once knew reveals itself in an act of charity\".\n\nRaincoat grossed 48.76 million worldwide. The film was a commercial failure at the box office.\n\nRaincoat holds the record of completing shoot in 16 days.\n"}
{"id": "1829946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829946", "title": "Yotaro Kobayashi", "text": "Yotaro Kobayashi\n\nYotaro Kobayashi was a British-born Japanese executive who was chairman of the Fuji Xerox company, a joint venture between Fujifilm (75%) and Xerox (25%). He served as Pacific Asia chairman of the Trilateral Commission.\n\nHe was educated at Keio University and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, graduating in 1956 and 1958, respectively. His father, Setsutaro Kobayashi, was the third president of Fujifilm and the first president of the Fuji Xerox company. He was chair of the board of the International University of Japan, succeeding founder Sohei Nakayama, formerly of the Industrial Bank of Japan. He was the President of Aspen Japan. \n\nIn September 2004, Kobayashi, who was the Chief Japanese committee member of the First China–Japan Friendship 21st Century Committee, criticized Japanese prime minister Junichirō Koizumi over his repeated visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, which had caused anger in the People's Republic of China as well as in Korea. Subsequently, Molotov cocktails were thrown into the grounds of Kobayashi's home in Meguro, Tokyo, an act police suspect was carried out by nationalist groups who are hostile to his views.\n\nHe died of chronic empyema in Tokyo on 5 September 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1829947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829947", "title": "KITT", "text": "KITT\n\nKITT is the short name of two fictional characters from the adventure franchise \"Knight Rider\". While having the same acronym, the KITTs are two different entities: one known as the Knight Industries Two Thousand, which appeared in the original TV series \"Knight Rider\", and the other as the Knight Industries Three Thousand, which appeared first in the two-hour 2008 pilot film for a new \"Knight Rider\" TV series and then the new series itself. In both instances, KITT is an artificially intelligent electronic computer module in the body of a highly advanced, very mobile, robotic automobile: the original KITT as a 1982 Pontiac Firebird Trans Am, and the second KITT as a 2008–2009 Ford Shelby GT500KR. KITT was voiced by William Daniels in the original series, and by Val Kilmer in the 2008 series. KITT's evil twin is KARR which is an acronym of Knight Automated Roving Robot. KARR was voiced by both Peter Cullen and Paul Frees in season one and season three of the NBC original TV series, respectively, of \"Knight Rider\".\n\nA 1991 sequel film, \"Knight Rider 2000\", saw KITT's original microprocessor unit transferred into the body of the vehicle intended to be his successor, the Knight Industries Four Thousand (Knight 4000), voiced by Carmen Argenziano and William Daniels.\n\nThe character of KITT (Knight Industries Two Thousand) in the original \"Knight Rider\" series was physically embodied as a modified 1982 Pontiac Trans Am.\n\nIn the television show's history, the first KITT (Knight Industries Two Thousand) (William Daniels) was designed by the late Wilton Knight, a brilliant but eccentric billionaire and founder of the Foundation for Law And Government (FLAG) and its parent Knight Industries. The 2008 pilot film later implied that Charles Graiman, creator of the Knight Industries Three Thousand, also had a hand in designing the first KITT.\n\nAccording to the series, the original KITT's main cybernetic processor was first installed in a mainframe computer used by the US government in Washington, D.C. However, Wilton saw better use for \"him\" in the Foundation's crime-fighting crusade and eventually the system was installed in the vehicle. KITT was in fact the second vehicle built by Knight Industries with artificial intelligence. His predecessor was KARR, the \"Knight Automated Roving Robot\". KARR was programmed for self-preservation, but this proved to be dangerous to the Foundation's humanitarian interests. KARR was later deactivated and placed in storage while KITT was given to his new operator, Michael Knight. KARR was later unwittingly reactivated by thieves in the original episode \"Trust Doesn't Rust\", was thought destroyed, then reappeared in the episode \"K.I.T.T. vs. K.A.R.R\" and was seen to be finally destroyed by Michael and KITT.\n\nWhile the 2008 pilot movie and then the new series appears to be a revamp of the original series, it offers some continuity from the original TV series. The \"new\" or \"second\" KITT (Knight Industries Three Thousand) is a different vehicle and microprocessor unit. The original Knight Industries Two Thousand is also shown in the pilot movie (although in pieces) in the scene where the garage of Charles Graiman (creator of the Knight Industries Three Thousand and implied co-designer of the original KITT) is searched by antagonists. A Trans-Am body (without its hood) is partially covered by a tarp, on which rests the rear spoiler. The famous KITT steering wheel (labelled \"Knight Two Thousand\") and \"KNIGHT\" license plate are also shown, along with numerous black car body parts. When the camera shows a full scene of the garage, there are three cars in the garage: the 3000, a 2000 under a tarp, and a complete 2000.\n\nThe 1991 movie \"Knight Rider 2000\" saw the first KITT (Knight Industries Two Thousand) in pieces, and Michael Knight himself reviving the microprocessor unit, which is eventually transferred into the body of the vehicle intended to be the original KITT's direct successor, the Knight 4000. The new vehicle was a modified 1991 Dodge Stealth, appearing similar to the Pontiac Banshee prototype. However, no reference to this storyline nor any appearance of the Knight 4000 is made in the new series or its 2008 pilot movie. In \"Knight Rider 2000\", it is stated that most of the Knight 2000 parts had been sold off. However, Graiman's garage in the 2008 pilot shows a more complete collection of parts than in the boxes recovered by Michael Knight in \"Knight Rider 2000\". This adds to the mystique of the current whereabouts of the original KITT in the time-frame of the new series.\n\nIn the 1997–1998 spin-off series \"Team Knight Rider\", KITT is employed as a shadow advisor. It is later revealed that \"The Shadow\" is actually a hologram run by KITT. In \"Knight of the Living Dead\", Graiman states a third KITT exists as a backup. When KITT is about to die, his memories are downloaded so the third KITT can use them. However, in the end the third AI is not used.\n\nThe front-mounted scanner bar that, among other things, allowed KITT to see was a nod to the Cylons, villains from the TV series \"Battlestar Galactica\", which had been created by Glen A. Larson, who also created \"Knight Rider\" and even used the iconic Cylon eye scanner audio to that effect.\n\nA refit in the 1985–86 season included the addition of \"Super Pursuit Mode\" and a convertible top.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn unknown number of these systems were designed at Stanford University (Episode 5, \"Just My Bill\"). KITT's total production cost was estimated at $11,400,000 in 1982 ($27,123,021.76 in 2013). The cost of subsequent equipment improvements and the installation of additional features since his activation have not been factored.\n\n\n\n\n\nVarious toy versions of KITT have been released. Among the best known \"Knight Rider\" memorabilia includes the remote controlled KITT, the \"Knight Rider\" lunch box, and the deluxe version of KITT. The deluxe model of KITT, sold by Kenner Toys and dubbed the \"Knight 2000 Voice Car\", spoke electronically (actual voice of William Daniels), featured a detailed interior and a Michael Knight action figure. ERTL released die-cast toys of KITT in three different sizes—the common miniature sized model, a 'medium' sized model, and a large sized model. These toys featured red reflective holograms on the nose to represent the scanner. Also in late 2004, die-cast models of KITT and KARR were produced from ERTL complete with detailed interior and light up moving scanner just like in the series. In September 2006, Hitari, a UK based company that produces remote control toy cars, released the \"Knight Rider\" KITT remote control car in 1/15 scale complete with the working red scanner lights, KITT's voice from the TV show and the car's turbine engine sound with the \"cylon\" scanner sound effect. In December 2012, Diamond Select Toys released a talking electronic 1/15 scale KITT which features a light up dashboard, scanner, foglights and tail lights along with the original voice of KITT, William Daniels, all at a push of a button.\n\nA more serious-minded joint venture was the \"Knight Rider\" GPS. Once again featuring the iconic voice of William Daniels, the item was indeed a fully working GPS using Mio navigational technology. The GPS featured custom recorded voices so that the unit could \"speak to\" its owner using their own name if it was one of the ones in the recorded set of names.\n\nThe 2008 update to \"Knight Rider\" includes a new KITT – the acronym now standing for Knight Industries Three Thousand. The KITT platform is patterned on a Shelby GT500KR and differs from the original Two Thousand unit in several ways. For example, the 2008 KITT utilizes nano-technology, allowing the car's outer shell to change colors and morph itself into similar forms temporarily. The nanotech platform is written as needing the AI active in order to produce any of these effects, unlike the original car's gadgets and \"molecular bonded shell\" which allowed it to endure extreme impacts. These down-sides to the use of nanotech have been demonstrated when villains are able to cause significant damage, such as shooting out windows, when the AI is deactivated. It can also turn into two different types of a Ford F-150 4x4 truck (one completely stock and the other with some modifications), a Ford E-150 van, a Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor, a special edition Warriors In Pink Mustang (in support of breast cancer awareness month), and a Ford Flex for disguise or to use the alternate modes' capabilities (such as off-road handling). The car can engage an \"Attack Mode\", featuring scissor/conventional hybrid doors, which allows it to increase speed and use most of its gadgets (including turbo boost). It had a different looking attack mode in the pilot which was used whenever the car needed to increase speed. Its downside however is that it only seats two. KITT is also capable of functioning submerged, maintaining life support and system integrity while underwater.\n\nWhile the original series stated the original KITT was designed by Wilton Knight, the 2008 TV movie implies Charles Graiman may have co-designed the car and the AI for Wilton Knight, was subsequently relocated to protect him and his family, and later designed the Knight Industries Three Thousand. KITT's weapons include a grappling hook located in the front bumper, usable in normal and attack modes, and missile launchers usable only in attack mode, which were first used in \"Knight of the Hunter\". In the Halloween episode \"Knight of the Living Dead\", KITT demonstrates the ability to cosmetically alter his appearance, becoming a black Mustang convertible with a pink trim as a Halloween costume. This configuration had the scanner bar relocated to behind the grille. Dr. Graiman also reveals in this episode that a backup neural network exists when he suggests downloading KITT's files and reuploading them to the backup, to which replies \"The Backup is not me.\" In the pilot, KITT had shown himself capable of similarly altering his external appearance—changing his color and licence plate. In \"Knight of the Zodiac\", KITT uses a dispenser located in his undercarriage to spread black ice, and a fingerprint generator in the glovebox to overlay the fingerprints of a captured thief over Mike's.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKARR (Peter Cullen, later Paul Frees) was the original prototype of the first KITT (Knight Industries Two Thousand) but to mirror the pattern of the original series, the nemesis and prototype of the second KITT (Knight Industries Three Thousand) is also designated as KARR in the new series. KARR is apparently a new evil twin character just like the Knight 3000, and the acronym now stands for Knight Auto-Cybernetic Roving Robotic-Exoskeleton.\n\nKARR's visual identity has also had similar changes for the new series. KARR was originally designed for military combat. KARR has the ability to transform from vehicle mode into a large wheeled robotic exoskeleton like a Transformer Decepticon instead of KITTs \"Attack Mode\". The vehicle mode of KARR is a 2008–2009 Shelby GT500KR with the license plate initials K.R. KARR is once again voiced by Peter Cullen, who also voiced the first appearance of KARR Knight Automated Roving Robot in \"Trust Doesn't Rust\". The transformation sequence is very similar to that in the 2007 \"Transformers\" live action film. Armed with twin machine guns on each shoulder and missiles, the exoskeleton combines with a human being for easier control. After a brief brawl, KITT uses the grappling hook to tear off KARR's chest plate, freeing one of Michael's co-workers, Alex Torres. Michael rams KITT through KARR's torso using Turbo Boost, apparently destroying KARR. It is unclear if KARR had the same nano repair function as KITT, nor if his A.I. unit survived. KARR is visually identical to KITT in this iteration, lacking the two tone black and silver paint job of the 80s version. The only difference is the scanner and voice box, which are yellow compared to KITT's red.\n\nA 1991 sequel movie \"Knight Rider 2000\" saw KITT's original microprocessor unit transferred into the body of the vehicle intended to be his successor, The Knight 4000 (referred to as \"KIFT\" by fans). The vehicle had numerous 21st Century technological improvements over the previous 1980s version of KITT, such as an advanced amphibious mode (which allows the car to ride on water like a speedboat), a virtual reality heads-up display (or VR-HUD, which utilized the entire windshield as a video display), and a microwave stun device that could remotely incapacitate a human target. However, no acknowledgement is made to this spin-off in the 2008 series.\n\nThe Knight 4000 has most of KITT's original features, including a few new and improved systems\n\n\n\nhttp://usatoday30.usatoday.com/life/2007-12-21-knight-rider-car_N.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "1829955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829955", "title": "Shonan Monorail", "text": "Shonan Monorail\n\nThe is a suspended SAFEGE monorail in the cities of Kamakura and Fujisawa in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. It is operated by the , and opened on March 7, 1970, the first monorail of its kind in Japan.\n\nThe train is used by commuters that work in Tokyo or Yokohama, tourists visiting Enoshima, and, in summer months, city dwellers who are visiting the parks or baths of Enoshima.\n\nThe monorail was built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and the line opened March 7, 1970 between Ōfuna and Nishi-Kamakura. The rest of the line opened on July 1, 1971.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Track switching possible at these stations\n\n\n, the line is operated using a fleet of seven three-car aluminium-bodied 5000 series trainsets. The 5000 series is equipped with a VVVF control device and regenerative brake which allows for smooth acceleration and deceleration. The VVVF inverter control reduces the need for inspection and maintenance because unlike a DC motor, there is no commutator brush or contact switch.\n\n\nServices were initially operated using a fleet of six two-car 300 series trainsets built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. Two sets were increased to three cars from February 1975 to provide additional capacity. The last of the 300 series sets were withdrawn by July 1992, following the introduction of new 500 series trains. The 500 series trains introduced in 1988 were the first air-conditioned trains on the line. The last 500 series train was withdrawn after its last day in service on 26 June 2016.\n\n\n(Ōfuna)(Shōnan-Enoshima)\n"}
{"id": "1829962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829962", "title": "Party of Democratic Action of Croatia", "text": "Party of Democratic Action of Croatia\n\nThe Party of Democratic Action of Croatia (Croatian and Bosnian: \"Stranka demokratske akcije Hrvatske\") is a political party that represents the Bosniak ethnic minority in Croatia. It is a branch of the Party of Democratic Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nIts leader Šemso Tanković was a member of Croatian Parliament, elected on the minority list in the 2003 election and in the 2007 election.\n"}
{"id": "1829970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829970", "title": "Beta-dual space", "text": "Beta-dual space\n\nIn functional analysis and related areas of mathematics, the beta-dual or -dual is a certain linear subspace of the algebraic dual of a sequence space.\n\nGiven a sequence space the -dual of is defined as\n\nIf is an FK-space then each in defines a continuous linear form on \n\n\nThe beta-dual of an FK-space is a linear subspace of the continuous dual of . If is an FK-AK space then the beta dual is linear isomorphic to the continuous dual.\n"}
{"id": "1829974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829974", "title": "Kitt", "text": "Kitt\n\nKitt may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829979", "title": "H. R. F. Keating", "text": "H. R. F. Keating\n\nHenry Reymond Fitzwalter \"Harry\" Keating (31 October 1926 – 27 March 2011) was an English crime fiction writer most notable for his series of novels featuring Inspector Ghote of the Bombay CID.\n\nKeating, known as \"Harry\" to friends and family, was born in St. Leonards-on-Sea, Sussex and typed out his first story at the age of eight. He was educated at Merchant Taylor's School in London and later Trinity College, Dublin. In 1956 he moved to London to work as a journalist on \"The Daily Telegraph\". He was the crime books reviewer for \"The Times\" for 15 years. He was chairman of the Crime Writers' Association (CWA) (1970–71), chairman of the Society of Authors (1983–84) and president of the Detection Club (1985–2000). He was a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.\n\nHe received the George N. Dove Award in 1995. In 1996 the CWA awarded him the Cartier Diamond Dagger for outstanding services to crime literature. He also wrote screenplays, was a reviewer and wrote a biography of Dame Agatha Christie entitled \"Agatha Christie: First Lady of Crime\". He died on 27 March 2011, aged 84.\n\nOn his 80th birthday in 2006, members of the Detection Club honoured him with an anthology, \"Verdict of Us All\", published by Crippen & Landru. He lived in London with his wife, the actress Sheila Mitchell until his death in 2011, aged 84.\n\nKeating's first four novels were published by Gollancz. With his fifth novel, \"Death of a Fat God\" (1963), he moved to Collins Crime Club, with whom he stayed for the next twenty years.\n\nInspector Ganesh Ghote is an inspector in the Bombay (Mumbai) Police who appeared in twenty-six novels. The first was \"The Perfect Murder\" (1964), which won a Crime Writers' Association Gold Dagger Award and was nominated for an Edgar Award. It was later made into a film by Merchant Ivory. Keating intended Ghote's final appearance to be in the novel \"Breaking and Entering\" (2000), but brought the character back in \"Inspector Ghote's First Case\" (2008).\n\nKeating did not visit India until ten years after he started writing about it.\n\nIn the mid-1980s Keating published three novels with Weidenfeld under the pseudonym Evelyn Hervey.\n\nHarriet Martens is a detective chief inspector who earns the nickname \"The Hard Detective\" because of the tough image that she adopts to survive in the masculine world of UK policing. This toughness inspired her to start a \"Stop the Rot\" campaign that successfully reduced local crime but angered some violent criminals to the extent that they start murdering her officers. In the second book she falls in love with a fellow officer while investigating the murder of the UK's top tennis player. With her job under threat she fights to prove her worth in the third book.\n\nIn 1978 Keating published \"A Long Walk to Wimbledon\", a science-fiction novel about a man trekking across a ruined London to save his estranged wife.\n\nIn the 1990s Keating wrote several novels about UK police detectives whose human weaknesses adversely affect their work. The first of these was \"The Rich Detective\" (1993) in which Detective Inspector Bill Sylvester of South Mercia Police investigates an anonymous allegation that a local antiques dealer is murdering old ladies after persuading them to change their wills in his favour.\n\nIn \"The Bad Detective\" (1996) Detective Sergeant Jack Stallworthy is a corrupt police officer who is planning his retirement to Devon when a businessman offers him ownership of a hotel on a tropical island in return for stealing an incriminating file from the Fraud Investigations Office at police headquarters.\n\nIn September 1999 Flambard Press published his verse novel \"Jack, the Lady Killer\".\n\nHis guide to \"Writing Crime Fiction\" (1986) was based on his analysis of the development of the genre from the 1920s to the 1990s. It includes guidance on fictional structure, the plot and its characters, and on submitting a script to publishers.\n\nPartial bibliography\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829980", "title": "Dar (disk archiver)", "text": "Dar (disk archiver)\n\ndar (disk archive) is a computer program, a command-line archiving tool intended as a replacement for tar in Unix-like operating systems.\n\n\nThere are GUI frontends for dar called:\nA text-mode browser/extractor: plugin for dar files in mc (Midnight Commander).\n\nA scheduler / command-line frontend known as SaraB allows the Towers of Hanoi, Grandfather-Father-Son, or any custom backup rotation strategy, and modifications are available for PAR file support. Extended versions known as bzSaraB and baras are also available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829984", "title": "Derbyshire County Cricket Club", "text": "Derbyshire County Cricket Club\n\nDerbyshire County Cricket Club is one of eighteen first-class county clubs within the domestic cricket structure of England and Wales. It represents the historic county of Derbyshire. Its limited overs team is called the Derbyshire Falcons in reference to the famous peregrine falcon which nests on the Derby Cathedral (it was previously called the Derbyshire Scorpions until 2005 and the Phantoms until 2010). Founded in 1870, the club held first-class status from its first match in 1871 until 1887. Because of poor performances and lack of fixtures in some seasons, Derbyshire then lost its status for seven seasons until it was invited into the County Championship in 1895. Derbyshire is also classified as a List A team since the beginning of limited overs cricket in 1963; and classified as a senior Twenty20 team since 2003. In recent years the club has enjoyed record attendances with over 24,000 people watching their home Twenty20 fixtures in 2017 – a record for a single campaign. The local derby versus Yorkshire at Chesterfield now regularly sells out in advance.\n\nThe club is based at the County Cricket Ground, previously known as the Racecourse Ground, in the city of Derby. In 2006, for the first time in eight years, county cricket returned to Queen's Park, Chesterfield with a County Championship game against Worcestershire and a one-day league game against Surrey. Other first-class cricket grounds used in the past have included Buxton, Saltergate in Chesterfield, Heanor, Ilkeston, Blackwell, Abbeydale Park in Sheffield, Wirksworth and Burton upon Trent (3 grounds), which is actually in Staffordshire. One-day contests have been played at Darley Dale, Repton School, Trent College, Leek, Staffordshire and Knypersley (also in Staffordshire).\n\n\nCricket may not have reached Derbyshire until the 18th century. The earliest reference to cricket in the county is a match in September 1757 between Wirksworth and Sheffield Cricket Club at Brampton Moor, near Chesterfield.\n\nThe formation of Derbyshire County Cricket Club took place on 4 November 1870 at a meeting in the Guildhall, Derby. The Earl of Chesterfield, who had played for and against All-England, was the first President, G. H. Strutt was Vice-President and Walter Boden, who had campaigned for the club's foundation for three years, was secretary. Also present at the meeting was Boden's brother, Henry. When Chesterfield died the following year, William Jervis became President.\n\nDerbyshire's opening season was 1871 when the club played its initial first-class match \"versus\" Lancashire at Old Trafford Cricket Ground on 26 and 27 May 1871 and joined the (then unofficial) County Championship.\n\nAlthough the club had some good results in its early seasons, it struggled for the most part and before the 1888 season, following a run of disastrous results, Derbyshire was demoted from first-class status, which was then based on the number of matches against other teams of similar standing. Derbyshire recovered first-class status in 1894 and rejoined the County Championship in 1895.\n\nAlthough the county then had a quite strong team due to the bowling of George Davidson, Joseph Hulme and George Porter and the batting and wicket-keeping of William Storer, William Chatterton and Bagshaw, within three years they had hit rock-bottom, going through 1897 without a win due to their best bowlers losing their powers.\n\nFrom this point up to 1925, Derbyshire were perennially among the weakest counties, losing every single match in 1920 despite the efforts of Sam Cadman and Arthur Morton, persevering professionals. From 1926, the nucleus of a good team emerged around some doughty batting from Denis Smith, Stan Worthington and George Pope. Pope's bowling and that of his brother Alf, leg spinner Tommy Mitchell and seam bowler Bill Copson took the team to their one and so far only Championship victory in 1936. They won 13 of their 28 matches outright and five on first innings. Worthington, Les Townsend, Smith and Alderman all passed 1,000 runs and Copson and Mitchell took over 100 wickets, with Alf Pope taking 94. Charlie Elliott, who later became a Test umpire and selector, was another member of this team which was captained by AW Richardson.\n\nThere have been more downs than ups in post-war years. Though runs came regularly from Arnold Hamer and less consistently from the West Indian Laurie Johnson and captain Donald Carr, the batting remained the weak point right up to the beginning of covered pitches in the 1980s. However, a series of seam bowlers served England as well as Derbyshire. The list began with Copson and continued with Cliff Gladwin, Les Jackson, Harold Rhodes, Alan Ward, Mike Hendrick and, most recently, Devon Malcolm and Dominic Cork. Spin was in short supply apart from the steady work of Edwin Smith and the under-rated all-rounder Geoff Miller, the current national selector of the England team and noted after-dinner speaker. The signing of Eddie Barlow, the famous South African, in 1976 and the lengthy period under the captaincy of Kim Barnett, starting in 1983, meant the side were rarely uncompetitive.\n\nDerbyshire were crowned County Championship Division Two champions in 2012 after securing a 6-wicket victory over Hampshire on the final day of the season at the County Ground, as Karl Krikken's side won promotion after securing more wins over the course of the season than Yorkshire who also finished the campaign on 194 points.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the 2013 season, Derbyshire announced a new Elite Cricket Performance model in the next phase of the Club’s quest for sustainable on-field success across all three domestic competitions, combined with the desire to produce England cricketers. Former Derbyshire bowler Graeme Welch was appointed the new Elite Cricket Performance Director in January 2014.\n\nThis following table gives details of every venue at which Derbyshire have hosted a first-class, List A or Twenty20 match:\n\n\nMost first-class runs for Derbyshire \nQualification – 15,000 runs\n\nMost first-class wickets for Derbyshire \nQualification – 1,000 wickets\n\nDerbyshire recorded their highest ever score, 801 for 8 declared, against Somerset at Taunton in 2007. Their score beat their previous highest ever score of 707 for 7 declared also against Somerset at Taunton in 2005. Simon Katich scored 221, Ian Harvey 153, Ant Botha 101 and James Pipe 106. Derbyshire broke the record despite losing Phil Weston and Chris Taylor to Andy Caddick in the first over without a run on the board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1829992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829992", "title": "Sambation", "text": "Sambation\n\nAccording to rabbinic literature, the Sambation () is the river beyond which the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel were exiled by the Assyrian king Shalmaneser V (Sanchairev).\n\nIn the earliest references, such as the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan, the river is given no particular attributes, but later literature claims that it rages with rapids and throws up stones six days a week, or even consists entirely of stone, sand and flame. For those six days the Sambation is impossible to cross, but it stops flowing every Shabbat, the day Jews are not allowed to travel; some writers say this is the origin of the name. \n\nPliny the Elder, writing in the mid-1st century, mentions that there is a river in Judaea that dries up every Shabbat (\"NH\" xxxi.18). His younger contemporary Josephus writes of the Sabbatical River (Σαββατικον) that he claims was called after \"the sacred seventh day of the Jews\" and that he locates between Arka (in the northern Lebanon range) and Raphanaea (in Upper Syria) (\"War\" 7.96-99), although according to his account it is dry for six days and flows only on Shabbat. The river is believed by some to be an intermittent spring now called \"Fuwar ed-Deir\". The Sambation was also a popular subject in medieval literature, for instance, some versions of the \"Alexander Romance\" have Alexander the Great encounter the river on his travels. Others have said it is an active volcano (which explains the rapids, stones, fire and smoke) which rests on the Sabbath. \n\nIn 1280, Abraham Abulafia (1240 – c. 1291), a mystic and Kabbalist, set out to find the Sambation. Nahmanides identifies the Sambation with the Guzana River mentioned in II Kings, located in Syria.\n\nAn Ashkenazi Jewish tradition speaks of the Lost Tribes as \"Die Roite Yiddelech\", \"The little red Jews\", cut off from the rest of Jewry by the legendary river Sambation \"whose foaming waters raise high up into the sky a wall of fire and smoke that is impossible to pass through\". \n\nObadiah ben Abraham writes that he was informed by Adeni Jews in Jerusalem that they had heard from Muslim merchants that the river was located about fifty-days' walking distance from their place as one journeys through the desert. The river, which flows with rocks for six days a week, completely surrounded a land inhabited by Jews who could not ever leave, for by doing so, Shabbat would be desecrated. These Jews were all the offspring of Moses and were as holy as angels and sinless.\n\nIn modern literature, the Sambation appears prominently in Umberto Eco's novel \"Baudolino\", whose protagonists manage to cross the raging river of stones and find on the other side, not the Lost Ten Tribes, but the Kingdom of Prester John of Christian myth.\n\n\nhttp://hebrewbooks.org/pdfpager.aspx?req=19887&st=&pgnum=192&hilite=\n\n"}
{"id": "1829995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829995", "title": "Serge Baudo", "text": "Serge Baudo\n\nSerge Baudo (born 16 July 1927) is a French conductor, the son of the oboist Étienne Baudo. He is the nephew of the cellist Paul Tortelier.\n\nBaudo was conductor of the Orchestra of Radio Nice from 1959 to 1962. He then served as permanent conductor at the Paris Opera from 1962 to 1965. Baudo also worked on the music of two Jacques-Yves Cousteau films: in 1964 he composed and conducted the music of \"World Without Sun\" and in 1976 he conducted some Maurice Ravel musical pieces for \"Voyage to the Edge of the World\" (a Cousteau film about a four months expedition in Antarctica). He conducted the world premieres of the operas \"La mère coupable\" by Darius Milhaud in June 1966 in Geneva as well as \"Andrea del Sarto\" by Jean-Yves Daniel-Lesur in January 1969 in Marseille . Baudo became music director of the Orchestre philharmonique Rhône-Alpes, later the Orchestre National de Lyon, in 1971, and served in this post until 1987. During his time in Lyon, he founded the Berlioz Festival, in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "1829999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829999", "title": "Propliner", "text": "Propliner\n\nA propliner is a large, propeller-driven airliner. Typically, the term is used for piston engine airliners that flew before the large scale advent of airliners of the jet age. Large four engine turboprop airliners like the Lockheed L-188 Electra, Vickers Viscount and Tupolev Tu-114, could be Technically considered as propliners, but as of 2020 this type was not generally accepted in the parlance of propliner enthusiasts. With the notable exception of the de Havilland Albatross and Fokker_F-10 of the late 1920s to 1930s, which were largely fabricated of wood, propliners generally featured all-metal wings and structural members, totally or partially retractable landing gear, and two, three, or four engines. A few might deviate from these characteristics with fixed landing gear, such as the Albatross, Fokker 110, and Lockheed Vega.\n\nThe first all metal passenger service propliner was the Handley_Page_Type_W in the 1920s. Then the Boeing 247 made its first flight in 1933, with the Douglas DC-1 and Douglas DC-2 closely following in response. The most successful is the Douglas DC-3, which was produced in the thousands, and is still in widespread use; while the Dewoitine D.338 and SNCASE SE.161 Languedoc were developed in France and Germany produced the Focke-Wulf Fw 200 Condor and Junkers Ju 90 (\"Auntie Ju\"). In Japan a license-built version of the Douglas DC-3 was developed as the Nakajima L2D and the smaller Mitsubishi MC-20 was locally developed. In the Netherlands Fokker, previously one of the leading manufacturers of airliners before the Boeing 247 appeared, became the European sales agent for Douglas DC-2s and DC-3s. Most British-built aircraft of the period were less advanced, such as the Avro 642 Eighteen and de Havilland Express; one exception was the Armstrong Whitworth Ensign. Other American-designed propliners included the Douglas DC-4, Douglas DC-5 and Martin 2-0-2. None of these models featured cabin pressurization.\n\nWith the earlier introduction of the Boeing 307 Stratoliner and the experimental Douglas DC-4E, a second generation of propliners emerged. These technologically more modern aircraft featured cabin pressurization systems allowing greater comfort by allowing aircraft to fly higher and above much of the lower altitude weather, although it was not until the Lockheed Constellation, followed by the Douglas DC-6 and Douglas DC-7, that this design advance became common.\n\nBy the 1950s the traveling public were increasingly finding themselves being transported upon long range pressurized propliners such as the Boeing 377 Stratocruiser, Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation and Lockheed L-1649 Starliner, or shorter ranged twin engined Martin 4-0-4 and Convair CV-240, CV-340 and CV-440 aircraft. British propliners included the Airspeed Ambassador, Vickers Viking and Handley Page Hermes, while the Canadair North Star (a development of the Douglas DC-4) was produced in Canada. The Breguet Deux-Ponts and Hurel-Dubois HD.31 were manufactured in France; and the Soviet Union produced the postwar twin-engined Ilyushin Il-12 and Ilyushin Il-14, both produced in quantity through the 1950s. Finally, the Swedish SAAB Scandia was produced in small numbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830000", "title": "Inundation", "text": "Inundation\n\nInundation (from the Latin \"inundatio\", flood) is both the act of intentionally flooding land that would otherwise remain dry, for military, agricultural, or river-management purposes, and the result of such an act.\n\nThe noun \"inundation\" refers to both the \"act\" of inundating; an overflow; a flood; a rising and spreading of water over grounds; and to the \"state\" of being inundated; flooding. It should therefore be distinguished from other types of flooding, not caused by man. It should also be recognised that this type of flooding would not take place without the intentional human act. So e.g. tidal flooding of areas that fall dry at ebb tide, and periodical river floods are not inundations in the sense intended here.\n\nThe latter condition implies that in most topographies the act usually applies to causing an overflow of a river or stream by damming it. This is also the only method foreseen in the 1888 British military textbook that discusses the technique correctly under \"military obstacles\". However, in areas that have been reclaimed from the sea, marches or lakes, and are artificially protected from the waters (either accumulated precipitation, or the water source that would flood the reclaimed area, if it were not artificially protected), as in e.g. the artificial hydrological entities, known as Polders, may be inundated by simply giving the water source access again. In the latter perspective inundation may simply be a form of hydraulic engineering.\nBefore we limit the concept to military uses, it should be recognised that there are at least two other possible uses of inundation as a human act:\n\nMilitary inundation creates an obstacle in the field that is intended to impede the movement of the enemy. This may be done both for offensive and defensive purposes. Furthermore, in so far as the methods used are a form of hydraulic engineering, it may be useful to differentiate between \"controlled\" inundations (as in most historic inundations in the Netherlands under the Dutch Republic and its successor states in that area and exemplified in the two Hollandic Water Lines, the Stelling van Amsterdam, the Frisian Water Line, the IJssel Line, the Peel-Raam Line, and the Grebbe line in that country) and \"uncontrolled\" ones (as in the second Siege of Leiden during the first part of the Eighty Years' War, and the Inundation of Walcheren, and the Inundation of the Wieringermeer during the Second World War). To count as \"controlled\", a military inundation has to take the interests of the civilian population into account, by allowing them a timely evacuation, by making the inundation \"reversible\", and by making an attempt to minimize the adverse ecological impact of the inundation. As Vandenbohed discusses, that impact may also be adverse in a hydrogeological sense if the inundation lasts a long time.\n\nFrom a legal point of view, a military inundation should therefore be seen as a government \"taking\" of private property under the constitutional protection of private property in many countries. In the Netherlands, this was the subject of art. 152 of the Dutch constitution of 1887.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830003", "title": "Tokuzō Fukuda", "text": "Tokuzō Fukuda\n\nTokuzō Fukuda (福田 徳三 \"Fukuda Tokuzō\"; born February 12, 1874; died May 8, 1930) was a pioneer of modern Japanese economics.\n\nFukuda introduced economic theory and economic history for the Social Policy School and the Younger Historical school of economics.\n\nHe graduated from the Tokyo Higher School of Commerce (today's Hitotsubashi University). After he was appointed lecturer of his alma mater, he studied in Germany, under Karl Bücher among others in the field, and he earned his doctorate from Munich University. His thesis dealt with the social and economic development in Japan (original title: \"Die gesellschaftliche und wirtschaftliche Entwicklung in Japan\") and was supervised by Lujo Brentano.\n\nAfter returning to Japan, he became professor of his alma mater and later at Keiō University.\n\nDuring the years known as the period of \"Taishō Democracy\", he joined with others to establish Reimeikai, which was a society \"to propagate ideas of democracy among the people.\" This group was formed in order to sponsor public lectures.\n\nAfter World War I, he defended democracy, advanced a critique of Marxian theory, and emphasized the solution of social and labour problems by government intervention rather than revolution. He is also considered a pioneer of the contemporary welfare state. As an advisor to the Ministry of Home Affairs, he also worked out policy drafts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830016", "title": "Frank Barger", "text": "Frank Barger\n\nFrank Barger (1921 in China Grove, North Carolina – 1991) was an American high school football coach at Hickory High School in Hickory, North Carolina. A graduate of Lenoir-Rhyne College, Barger compiled a 273–108–5 record coaching the Hickory Tornadoes, including 3 western state titles and 10 district titles during his 31-year tenure (1953–1984). He was the National Coach of the Year for District 3 (Southeast U.S.) in 1971, and in 1993 was inducted into the North Carolina Sports Hall of Fame, in Raleigh, North Carolina. During his time at Hickory High School, Barger also coached baseball, golf, track, and girls' basketball.\n"}
{"id": "1830018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830018", "title": "Eastern Beach (Victoria)", "text": "Eastern Beach (Victoria)\n\nEastern Beach is a popular swimming and recreation area in Geelong, Victoria on the shores of Corio Bay. Built during the 1930s in the Art Deco style, a shark proof sea bath is provided, as well as a children's swimming pool, kiosk, and dressing room pavilion. A number of Art Deco buildings in the area are listed on the Victorian Heritage Register.\n\nIt was not always the beach it is today. In the early years that area of Geelong was considered an eyesore, with steep cliffs running from the northern town boundary to the shores of Corio Bay.\n\nRedevelopment plans were first proposed in 1914 by the City of Geelong. Work was to include a sea wall from Yarra Street to Limeburners Point, land reclamation, and the flattening of the cliffs along the beach. Further plans were drawn up for a chalet at the beach, which later appeared in the form of the kiosk building.\n\nWork began in September 1927 when contracts were let for construction of the concrete stairway, terraces and dressing sheds. J.C. Taylor and Sons were the successful contractor. That stage of the works was opened on December 20, 1929 by the Mayor of Geelong Cr Sol Jacobs.\n\nThe shark-proof swimming enclosure and children's pool were opened by Cr Jacobs on March 28, 1939. The enclosure covered and could accommodate 10,000 bathers. The precinct development cost £40,000 ($80,000), but was seen by the council of the time as being an investment in the city.\n\nTo cater to beach goers, a tramway extension along Corio Terrace (later Brougham Street) as far as Bellerine Street opened in October 1940. The line was closed in 1956 along with the rest of Geelong's tramways.\n\nThe area began a slow decline from the 1960s, with its popularity diminishing as a result of increased motor car ownership, which gave Geelong residents easier access to ocean beaches. Later decades of neglect saw the area fall into disrepair.\n\nThe decline was arrested in 1993, when the City of Greater Geelong announced plans for the restoration of the area. Partial funding of the works came from people being given the opportunity to purchase a plank on the boardwalk around he swimming enclosure. The boardwalk and enclosure were rebuilt, and the children's swimming pool, kiosk and change rooms were renovated. The Beach House restaurant was also opened on the upper level of the kiosk building.\n\nThe late 1990s saw the original diving tower reinstated at the bay side of the swimming enclosure, after an absence of many years. However, the rebuilt structure was altered from the original design, with access to the topmost level being barred due to injury concerns.\n\nThe improvements were the first stage of the Waterfront Geelong developments along the Corio Bay foreshore.\n\nEastern Beach is the venue of festivals and concerts, as well as the annual Geelong Carols by the Bay concert hosted by Denis Walter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830034", "title": "Tony Reno", "text": "Tony Reno\n\nTony Niemistö (born 10 February 1963 in Danderyd, Stockholm County) is a semi-retired Swedish musician, best known as Tony Reno, the original drummer in the rock band Europe. He played on Europe's first two albums, \"Europe\" and \"Wings of Tomorrow\". He parted company from the band before the second leg of the \"Wings of Tomorrow\" tour in 1984. He was replaced by Ian Haugland.\n\nIn 1986 Niemistö joined the hair metal band Geisha, replacing Mikkey Dee. Niemistö changed his stage name to Tony Lace, but eventually he went back to using his real name. Geisha released the album \"Phantasmagoria\" in 1987, before splitting up two years later. Geisha's vocalist Yenz Cheyenne then formed the band =Y=, which Niemistö joined. They released an EP, \"=Y=\" in 1991, and an album, \"Rawchild\" in 1992.\n\nNiemistö had not participated in anything related to Europe for 29 years. That activity drought ended in 2013, when the group was celebrating the 30th anniversary of the release of their original album. Niemistö autographed 30 copies of a canvas replica of the 1983 album's cover, and then later on took part in a 10-guitar auction (of which the proceeds from 'The Final Countdown' guitar benefitted the efforts of the 'Médecins Sans Frontiers' organization in the Philippines), where he autographed the guitar containing art of the debut album.\n\nNiemistö is currently living in Vallentuna, Sweden, where he works for a computer company.\n\n\n\n\nTony Reno - Metal Archives\n"}
{"id": "1830038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830038", "title": "Technical report", "text": "Technical report\n\nA technical report (also scientific report) is a document that describes the process, progress, or results of technical or scientific research or the state of a technical or scientific research problem. It might also include recommendations and conclusions of the research. Unlike other scientific literature, such as scientific journals and the proceedings of some academic conferences, technical reports rarely undergo comprehensive independent peer review before publication. They may be considered as grey literature. Where there is a review process, it is often limited to within the originating organization. Similarly, there are no formal publishing procedures for such reports, except where established locally.\n\nTechnical reports are today a major source of scientific and technical information. They are prepared for internal or wider distribution by many organizations, most of which lack the extensive editing and printing facilities of commercial publishers.\n\nTechnical reports are often prepared for sponsors of research projects. Another case where a technical report may be produced is when more information is produced for an academic paper than is acceptable or feasible to publish in a peer-reviewed publication; examples of this include in-depth experimental details, additional results, or the architecture of a computer model. Researchers may also publish work in early form as a technical report to establish novelty, without having to wait for the often long production schedules of academic journals. Technical reports are considered \"non-archival\" publications, and so are free to be published elsewhere in peer-reviewed venues with or without modification.\n\n\nTechnical reports are now commonly published electronically, whether on the Internet or on the originating organization's intranet.\n\nMany organizations collect their technical reports into a formal series. Reports are then assigned an identifier (report number, volume number) and share a common cover-page layout. The entire series may be uniquely identified by an ISSN.\n\nA registration scheme for a globally unique \"\" (ISRN) was standardized in 1994 (ISO 10444), but was never implemented in practice. ISO finally withdrew this standard in December 2007. It aimed to be an international extension of a report identifier scheme used by U.S. government agencies (ANSI/NISO Z39.23).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830042", "title": "M. S. Golwalkar", "text": "M. S. Golwalkar\n\nMadhav Sadashiv Golwalkar - माधव सदाशिव गोळवलकर (19 February 1906 – 5 June 1973) was the second \"Sarsanghchalak\" (or, \"Chief\") of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. He has been widely noted to be the most prominent ideologue of Hindutva. One of the early leaders for the RSS group.\n\nGolwalkar authored the books \"Bunch of Thoughts\" and \"We, or Our Nationhood Defined\".\n\nGolwalkar was born to Sadashivrao and Lakshmibai in a Marathi Karhade Brahmin family at Ramtek, near Nagpur in Maharashtra. His family was prosperous and supported him in his studies, activities. Sadashivrao, a former clerk in the Posts and Telegraphs Department, became a teacher in the Central Provinces and ended his career as headmaster of a high school. Golwalkar was the only surviving son of nine children. Since his father was frequently transferred around the country, he attended a number of schools. Golwalkar studied science and was apt and apolitical as a student. As an adolescent, he developed a deep interest in religion and spiritual meditation.\nGolwalkar enrolled in Hislop College, a missionary-run educational institute in Nagpur. At the college, he was reportedly incensed at the \"open advocacy\" of Christianity and the disparagement of Hinduism; much of his concern for the defence of Hinduism is traceable to this experience. Golwalkar left Hislop College for Benaras Hindu University (BHU) in Varanasi, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in 1927 and a master's degree in biology in 1929. He was influenced by Madan Mohan Malaviya, a nationalist leader and founder of the university. Golwalkar went to Madras to pursue a doctorate in marine biology, but could not complete it because of his father's retirement; he later taught zoology for three years at BHU. His students called him \"Guruji\" because of his beard, long hair and simple robe, a practice later continued in a reverential manner by his RSS followers. Golwalkar returned to Nagpur, and obtained a law degree by 1937.\n\nWhile he was lecturing at Benares Hindu University, Bhaiyaji Dani, a student and close associate of RSS \"Sarsanghchalak\" K. B. Hedgewar, founded an RSS shakha in Varanasi. Although Golwalkar attended meetings and was esteemed by its members, there is \"no indication that Golwalkar took a keen interest\" in the organisation. In 1931, Hedgewar visited Benares and was drawn to the ascetic Golwalkar.\n\nAfter returning to Nagpur, Hedgewar exerted greater influence on Golwalkar. According to RSS sources, Hedgewar encouraged him to pursue a law degree because it would give him the reputation required of an RSS leader. In 1934, Hedgewar made him secretary (\"karyavah\") of the main Nagpur branch. After he began practising law, Hedgewar tasked him with the management of the Akola Officers' Training Camp.\n\nIn October 1936, Golwalkar abandoned his law practice and RSS work for the Sargachi Ramakrishna Mission ashram in West Bengal to renounce the world and become a sanyasi. He became a disciple of Swami Akhandananda, who was a disciple of Ramakrishna and brother monk of Swami Vivekananda. On 13 January 1937 Golwalkar reportedly received his diksha, but left the ashram soon afterwards.\nHe returned to Nagpur in a state of depression and indecision to seek Hedgewar's advice after his guru died in 1937, and Hedgewar convinced him that his obligation to society could best be fulfilled by working for the RSS.\n\nAfter Golwalkar rejoined the RSS, Hedgewar apparently began grooming him for leadership and he was placed in charge of the All-India Officers' Training Camp from 1937 to 1939. Golwalkar's abilities (managing complex details of the large camp, public speaking, reading and writing) were appreciated. In 1938, he was asked to translate G. D. Savarkar's 1934 Marathi language \"Rashtra Mimansa\" (\"Nationalism\") into Hindi and English. The resulting book, \"We, or Our Nationhood Defined\", was published in Golwalkar's name and regarded as a systematic treatment of RSS ideology; the fact that it was an abridged translation did not come to light until 1963.\n\nIn 1939, at a Gurudakshina festival, Hedgewar announced that Golwalkar would be the next general secretary (\"sarkaryavah\", the second-most-important position in the RSS). A day before he died on 21 June 1940, he gave Golwalkar a sheet of paper asking him to be the RSS leader. On 3 July, five state-level \"sanghchalak\" (directors) in Nagpur announced Hedgewar's decision.\n\nGolwalkar's choice was said to have stunned the RSS volunteers, since Hedgewar passed over several senior activists. Golwalkar's background, training, and interests made him an unlikely successor, and Balasaheb Deoras said that several RSS leaders were sceptical about Golwalkar's ability as a \"sarsanghchalak\". In retrospect, Hedgewar's grooming (including encouragement to obtain a Law degree and the authorship of \"We, or Our Nationhood Defined\", is seen as key to Golwalkar's later success. One reason advanced for his choice is that he was thought likely to maintain RSS independence, otherwise liable to be regarded as a youth front of the Hindu Mahasabha.\n\nRSS supreme leader for more than 30 years, Golwalkar made it one of strongest religious-political organisations in India; its membership expanded from 100,000 to over one million, and it branched out into the political, social, religious, educational and labour fields through 50 front organisations. The RSS extended to foreign countries, where Hindus were recruited into organisations such as the Bharatiya Swayamsevak Sangh or the Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh. There was a subtle, important shift in the RSS worldview. One of Golwalkar's major innovations was an anti-communist, anti-socialist ideology, with the slogan \"Not socialism but Hinduism.\" According to D. R. Goyal, the RSS' anti-Marxist tinge made it popular with the wealthy sections of society who generously supported it.\n\nThe RSS expanded into Jammu and Kashmir in 1940, when Balraj Madhok was sent as a \"pracharak\" to Jammu with Prem Nath Dogra as director. A \"shakha\" was founded in Srinagar in 1944, and Golwalkar visited the city in 1946. On 18 October 1947 he is reported to have met Maharaja Hari Singh at the request of India's Home Minister Vallabhbhai Patel to persuade the Maharaja to accede to India. He was accompanied by the RSS Delhi \"pracharak\" Vasantrao Oak and the RSS United Provinces \"sanghchalak\" Narendrajit Singh. Although it is believed that the maharaja agreed to the proposal, the accession was not signed until 26 October after the invasion by Pakistan.\n\nGolwalkar's religiosity and apparent disinterest in politics convinced some RSS members that the organisation was no longer relevant to the nationalist struggle. It remained aloof from the freedom movement, and connections with the Hindu Mahasabha were severed. The RSS membership in the Marathi-speaking districts of Bombay became disillusioned and the Bombay \"sanghchalak\", K. B. Limaye, resigned. Several \"swayamsevaks\" defected and formed the Hindu Rashtra Dal in 1943, with an agenda of a paramilitary struggle against British rule; Nathuram Godse (Gandhi's assassin) was a leader of that group.\n\nHowever, Golwalkar moved quickly to consolidate his position. He created a network of \"prant pracharaks\" (provincial organisers), who would report to him rather than to the \"sanghchalaks\". Golwalkar recruited local Congress leaders to preside over RSS functions, demonstrating the organisation's independence from the Hindu Mahasabha. The RSS continued to expand during the Second World War, especially in North India and present-day Pakistan. Many new members were religious, small-scale entrepreneurs interested in consolidating their caste positions with the RSS' Hindu symbols.\n\nOrganisation policy during the war years was influenced by potential threats to Hinduism, with the RSS expected to be prepared to defend Hindu interests in the event of a Japanese invasion. It also expected a renewed Hindu-Muslim struggle after the war. Golwalkar did not want to give the British government an excuse to ban the RSS. He complied with all governmental instructions, disbanding the RSS military department and avoiding the Quit India movement. The British acknowledged that the organisation \"scrupulously kept itself within the law, and refrained from taking part in the disturbances that broke out in August, 1942\".\n\nIn addition to pragmatism, Golwalkar appeared ideologically opposed to an anti-British struggle; the RSS pledged to defend India's freedom by defending religion and culture, and there was \"no mention of the departure of the British\".\nHe called the conflation of anti-Britishism with patriotism and nationalism a \"reactionary view\", which would have \"disastrous effects upon the entire course of the freedom struggle\". Golwalkar acknowledged that his attitude confused people (including many \"swayamsevaks\" in the RSS), leading them to distrust the Sangh.\n\nWhen Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated in January 1948 by Nathuram Godse, there was widespread apprehension (despite Golwalkar's condemnation of the murderers) that the RSS was involved. Golwalkar and 20,000 \"swayamsevaks\" were arrested on 4 February, and the RSS was banned for promoting \"violence\" and \"subversion\". Godse said that he acted on his own initiative, and no official connection between the RSS and Gandhi's assassination has ever been made. However, Nathuram Godse's brother Gopal Godse—also accused in the assassination plot—said that Nathuram never left the RSS and his statement was designed to protect the RSS and Golwalkar (who were \"in deep trouble\" after the assassination). Golwalkar was released on 5 August, after the six-month statutory limit expired.\n\nThe RSS ban continued, and Golwalkar tried to negotiate with Home Minister Vallabhbhai Patel about having it lifted. The mass arrests, violence against members and the ban by an independent Indian government of what was understood as a patriotic organisation was a shock to the RSS membership.\n\nAlthough Patel asked the RSS to join the Congress, Golwalkar disapproved. Patel then demanded, as a precondition, that the RSS adopt a written constitution. Golwalkar responded by beginning a satyagraha on 9 December 1948, and he and 60,000 RSS volunteers were arrested. RSS leaders Eknath Ranade, Bhaiyaji Dani and Balasaheb Deoras suspended the satyagraha in January 1949 and, in collaboration with liberal leader T. R. Venkatarama Sastri, wrote an RSS constitution of which Patel approved. The ban was lifted on 11 July 1949.\nThe government of India issued a statement that the decision to lift the ban had been made in view of Golwalkar's promise of loyalty to the Constitution of India and acceptance of India's national flag explicitly in the RSS constitution. Organisations founded and supported by RSS volunteers became collectively known as Sangh Parivar.\n\nGolwalkar is known to have propagated Dharmic teachings. A book based on extracts of his writings, titled \"Guruji: Vision and Mission,\" includes a chapter titled “Hindu—the Son of this Motherland,” which claims that 'Bhartiya' includes only those who have followed faiths rooted in pluralism, and that Indic faith followers represent this in India, since it accepts all approaches towards spirituality. In another chapter titled “Our Identity and Nationality\", he wrote that “All the elements required to develop as a great nation are present in this Hindu society in their entirety. This is why we say that in this nation of Bharat, living principles of the Hindu society are the living systems of this nation. In short, this is ‘Hindu Nation’.” . Some of Golwalkar's ideas have differed with those from the RSS. For example, in his book \"This is We or Our Nationhood Defined\" published in 1939, he compares the creation of a Hindu culture propagating the concept of acceptance of a shared Hindu heritage. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830043", "title": "Briar Moss", "text": "Briar Moss\n\nBriar Moss, once known as Roach, is a fictional character from Tamora Pierce's quartets \"Circle of Magic\" and \"The Circle Opens\" as well as the stand-alone \"The Will of the Empress\". \n\nBriar is of unknown, multiracial parentage. He is described as having curly black hair and brown skin, typical to natives of Sotat, his birthland, but with a Western nose and light, gray-green eyes.\n\nBriar Moss was, in early life, a street rat called 'Roach'. In \"The Circle of Magic\" quartet, he is about 10; in \"The Circle Opens\" quartet, he's 14; and in \"The Will of the Empress\", Briar is 18. His mother was killed when he was approximately four, and he was recruited by a gang, the Lightnings, led by the 'Thief-Lord', in Deadman's District in Hajra. He was caught three times, receiving a tattoo of an \"X\" on the webbing between each thumb and forefinger for the first two; on the third, he was sentenced to life at the docks. A great mage, Niklaren Goldeye, had a vision that he would find special mages—mages whose ambient powers were not easily discernible by the usual means—and as such was there, as he needed to be, during Briar's trial. He was able to detect the boy's psychic affinity with plants, and took him to Winding Circle Temple to be educated in plant magic.\n\nAlthough initially a thief, Briar developed a strong sense of right and wrong, which would serve as a weapon against criminals and seductresses. He is cantankerous but possesses a profound loyalty to his foster-sisters Daja Kisubo (whom he calls Daj'), Sandrilene (Sandry) fa Toren, and Trisana (usually called Tris for short, but Briar often calls her Coppercurls) Chandler and his teacher Rosethorn, as well as a cutting sense of humor. His affinity with all things botanical has made him not only a master gardener but has also led to such oddities as stealing and later coming to own an ancient, magic-storing, miniature pine tree called a \"shakkan\", tattoos of flowers that live and grow under his skin (he attempted to tattoo over his prisoner \"X\" tattoos with vegetable dyes and one of Sandry's needles), and the ability to control growth of plants. During the \"Circle Opens\", he is shown to be somewhat flirty, but in the \"Will of the Empress\" he becomes much more promiscuous. In the same book, he was suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nBriar has plant magic and his teacher is Dedicate Rosethorn, who is also a plant mage. Briar can make plants grow very quickly and move them to any form, like creating a snare from a vine. Rosethorn taught him how to make medicines and restore them to their full potential when they had expired. He also enjoys and makes money by caring for \"shakkans\" (similar to bonsai), trees kept small which usually store magic in the way the plant looks. He and Rosethorn developed special weapons to use in combat. They are seeds, namely of thorny plants, wrapped in cotton wool. Thrown, Rosethorn and Briar use their green magic to simultaneously cause the wool to unwrap and the seeds to grow. There are variations of the balls, some containing vines to wrap around people and others to do actual harm. When trying to tattoo over his \"X\" marks, Briar's green magic and Sandry's magical needles resulted in a subcutaneous garden; plants grow and shift beneath the skin on his hands, often reflecting his mood. This could be considered Briar's \"unique ability\" (as with Sandry's power to spin pure magic, Daja's living metal, and Tris's scrying ability and sheer versatility), though these plants have yet to show any practical magical properties.\n\nIn \"Briar's Book\", a deadly epidemic threatens everyone in the city. His teacher, Rosethorn, catches \"blue pox\", as it is called, has a seizure and dies. Briar, with the help of Sandry, Daja, and Tris, goes to the afterlife to bring her back to life, almost dying himself.\n\nIn \"Street Magic\", Briar finds Evumeimei Dingzai (Evvy), a former slave, who has stone magic. Evvy refuses to go with the nearest stone mage (Jebilu Stoneslicer) and thus, Briar must become her teacher. Briar teaches her meditation and at the same time about rocks and what they are used for. Evvy calls Briar's plants 'stone killers' because their roots dig into rocks and destroy them over time. In \"Melting Stones\" she revises this attitude slightly, believing that rocks occasionally welcome the change wrought by plant roots. In \"The Will of the Empress\" one of his foster-sisters asked him if and who was the girl he cared for more than other girls to bring to their breakfast, and Briar answers, Evvy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830045", "title": "Jim Mora", "text": "Jim Mora\n\nJim Mora is the name of:\n"}
{"id": "1830050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830050", "title": "Ober Ost", "text": "Ober Ost\n\n was created in 1914, and its first leader was Paul von Hindenburg, a Prussian military hero. When the Chief of the General Staff Erich von Falkenhayn was dismissed from office in 1916, von Hindenburg replaced him, and Prince Leopold of Bavaria was given control of the .\n\nBy October 1915, the German Army had advanced so far to the east, that Central Poland could be put under a civil administration. This administration was divided between the German Government General of Warsaw and the Austro-Hungarian Government General of Lublin. The military \"Ober Ost\" government from then on only controlled the conquered areas east and north of Central Poland.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, the German Empire effectively controlled Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus, parts of Poland, and Courland, all of which were former territories of the Russian Empire. itself was assigned present-day Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus, Poland, and Courland. The land area it controlled was around .\n\n ruled the land with an iron fist. The movement policy or , divided the land without regard to the existing social and ethnic organization and patterns. One was not allowed to move between the districts, which destroyed the livelihood of many merchants and prevented indigenous people from visiting friends and relatives in neighboring districts. They also tried to \"civilize\" the people in the \"Ober Ost\"-controlled land, attempting to integrate German ideals and institutions with existing cultures. They constructed railroads but only Germans were allowed to ride them and schools were taught by German instructors, since they lacked trained Lithuanians.\n\nIn 1915, when large territories came under \"Ober Ost\"s administration as a result of military successes on the Eastern Front. Erich Ludendorff, von Hindenburg's second in command, set up a system of managing the large area now under its jurisdiction. Although von Hindenburg was technically in command, it was Ludendorff who had actual control of the administration. There were ten staff members, each with a specialty (finance, agriculture, etc.). The area was divided into the Courland District, the Lithuania District and the Bialystok-Grodno District, each overseen by a district commander. Ludendorff's plan was to make \"Ober Ost\" a colonial territory for the settlement of his troops after the war as well as provide a haven for German refugees from inner Russia. Ludendorff quickly organized \"Ober Ost\" so that it was a self-sustaining region, growing all its own food and even exporting surpluses to Berlin. The largest resource was one that Ludendorff was unable to exploit effectively: the local population had no interest in helping obtain a German victory as they had no say in their government and were subject to increasing requisitions and taxes.\n\nThere were a great many problems with communication with indigenous persons within the . Among the upper class locals the soldiers could get by with French or German and in large villages the Jewish population would speak German or Yiddish, \"which the Germans would somehow comprehend\". In the rural areas and amongst peasant populations soldiers had to rely on interpreters who spoke Lithuanian, Latvian, or Polish. These language problems were not helped by the thinly-stretched administrations, which would sometimes number 100 men in an area as large as Rhode Island. The clergy were at times relied upon to spread messages to the masses, since this was an effective way of spreading a message to people who speak a different language. A young officer-administrator named related that he listened (through a translator) to a sermon by a priest who tells his congregation to stay off highways after nightfall, hand in firearms and not to have anything to do with Bolshevist agents, exactly as had told him to do earlier.\n\nGiven the uncertain situation caused by the Russian October Revolution in 1917 and the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk in March 1918, some indigenes elected Duke Adolf Friedrich of Mecklenburg as head of the United Baltic Duchy, and the second duke of Urach as king of Lithuania, but these plans collapsed in November 1918.\n\nThe was divided into three (administrative territories): , , and . Each was, like Germany proper, subdivided into (districts); (rural districts) and (urban districts). In 1917 the following districts existed:\n\nThe total area was , containing a population of 2,909,935 (by the end of 1916).\n\n\nWith the end of the war and collapse of the empire, the Germans started to withdraw, sometimes in a piecemeal and disorganized way, from around late 1918 and early 1919. In the vacuum left by their retreat, conflicts arose as various former occupied nations declared independence, clashing with the various factions of the Russian Revolution and subsequent Civil War, and with each other. For details, see:\n\n postulates in his book \"War Land on the Eastern Front: Culture, National Identity, and German Occupation in World War I\", that a line can be traced from s policies and assumptions to Nazi Germany's plans and attitudes towards Eastern Europe. His main argument is that \"German troops developed a revulsion towards the 'East', and came to think of it as a timeless region beset by chaos, disease and barbarism\", instead of what it really was, a region suffering from the ravages of warfare. He claims that the encounter with the East formed an idea of 'spaces and races' that needed to be \"cleared and cleansed\". Although he has garnered a great deal of evidence for his thesis, including government documents, letters and diaries, in German and Lithuanian, there are still problems with his work. For example, he does not say much about the reception of German policies by native populations. Also, he \"makes almost no attempt to relate wartime occupation policies and practice in to those in Germany's colonial territories overseas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830054", "title": "Jim L. Mora", "text": "Jim L. Mora\n\nJames Lawrence Mora (born November 19, 1961) is an American football coach who was most recently the head coach of the UCLA Bruins of the Pac-12 Conference. Prior to taking the job at UCLA, Mora served as a head coach in the National Football League (NFL), coaching the Atlanta Falcons from 2004 to 2006 and Seattle Seahawks in 2009. He has also served as an analyst for NFL Network and Fox Sports.\n\nMora played college football with the Washington Huskies from 1980 to 1983, and began his coaching career there as a graduate assistant in 1984. He is the son of retired NFL head coach Jim E. Mora.\n\nAs the son of an assistant coach in college football, Mora lived in various locations in the West as a child: primarily in Boulder, Colorado (ages 7–12) and also in California, mostly in the Los Angeles area. When Mora was 12, his father left Colorado after the 1973 season to join the staff at UCLA under first-year head coach Dick Vermeil.\n\nAfter one season in Los Angeles, the elder Mora accepted a position at the University of Washington under new head coach Don James, and the Moras moved north from Los Angeles to the Seattle area when the younger Mora was 13. His father coached the defensive line at UW for three seasons, then moved over to the pro ranks with the Seattle Seahawks in 1978, where he coached for four years under Jack Patera. The younger Mora attended Hyak Junior High and Interlake High School in Bellevue, and graduated in 1980.\n\nMora attended the University of Washington, where he walked-on and was a reserve defensive back / linebacker for the Huskies from 1980 to 1983. He appeared in two Rose Bowls (January 1981, 1982) and was a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. Mora graduated from Washington in 1984 and began his coaching career under James as a graduate assistant for the Huskies, then moved to the professional ranks the following year.\n\nMora hired on as a quality control coach with the San Diego Chargers in 1985, and moved up to coach the secondary in 1989. In 1992, he went to the New Orleans Saints to coach under his father, head coach Jim E. Mora. In 1997, the younger Mora moved to the San Francisco 49ers to coach under Steve Mariucci, and became the 49ers' defensive coordinator in 1999.\n\nIn 2004, Mora was hired by the Atlanta Falcons as their head coach with a five-year, $7.5 million contract. He led the Falcons to a record of 11–5 and a first round bye in the playoffs. Atlanta hosted and defeated the St. Louis Rams 47–17 in the divisional round, and advanced to the NFC Championship Game, where they lost 27–10 on the road to the Philadelphia Eagles.\n\nIn 2005, the Falcons went 8–8 and Mora characterized the season as a \"disappointing year.\" This non-winning season continued one of the NFL's strangest records – the Falcons had never had back-to-back winning seasons in the history of the franchise, a 40-year statistical oddity that no other modern professional team has matched. This record ended in 2009. During a rematch of the 2004 NFC Championship with the Philadelphia Eagles, Mora was seen smelling ammonia capsules on the sidelines during a \"Monday Night Football\" broadcast. John Madden noted that some coaches use the capsules during games, although they are mostly for players' use. Following the 2005 season, Mora signed a three-year contract extension with the Falcons, which guaranteed the final two years of his original five-year deal, and added a sixth in 2009.\n\nThe national media and the Falcons fans had high expectations in 2006, but they fell to a 7–9 record. Atlanta lost their final three games, including two at home, and missed the playoffs for a second straight year. On December 14, while the Falcons were still statistically alive in their quest for the playoffs, Mora said during a radio interview with Dave \"Softy\" Mahler and former Huskies teammate/roommate Hugh Millen on Seattle sports-talk radio station KJR-AM that if it were offered, he would take the head coaching job at the University of Washington (a job that was not open), \"\"even if [the Falcons] were in a playoff run.\"\" While Mora later claimed that he was only kidding, he was criticized by many Falcons fans as well as members of the national media who claimed that making such comments was irresponsible. Team owner Arthur Blank publicly expressed his disapproval of Mora's comments.\n\nFollowing the season, the Atlanta Falcons announced that they had fired Mora. Arthur Blank told the media, \n\nMora turned to broadcasting after being fired from the Falcons when he became a contributor to NBC's playoff coverage.\n\nThe Seattle Seahawks hired Mora as assistant head coach and defensive backs coach on January 21, 2007. Following the 2007 season, Mora interviewed for the Washington Redskins head coaching job after Joe Gibbs resigned, but Mora declined the position to stay with the Seahawks. Mora was announced as the successor to Mike Holmgren prior to the 2008 season and signed a five-year contract through the 2012 season, estimated at $4 million per year.\n\nMora was officially named the seventh head coach in franchise history in 2009, upon Holmgren's retirement after the 2008 season. His first official press conference as the new Seahawks head coach was given on January 13, 2009, where he enthusiastically shared his vision of bringing a Super Bowl championship to Seattle and having a championship parade from the Space Needle to the 'Hawks stadium, Qwest Field.\n\nAfter going 5–11 in his only season as Seahawks head coach, Mora was fired on January 8, 2010, with three years and $12 million remaining on his contract. Mora was replaced by former USC head coach Pete Carroll.\n\nOn December 10, 2011, the UCLA Bruins announced the hiring of Mora as head coach, replacing alumnus Rick Neuheisel. Mora signed a five-year contract for $12 million, plus incentives. He immediately went to work as the head coach by hiring Adrian Klemm, Steve Broussard, Demetrice Martin and Eric Yarber as assistant coaches. Less than two months later, the results came early, as UCLA landed a consensus No. 12-ranked recruiting class in 2012 after having a class ranked in the high 40s at Rick Neuheisel's departure. In his first season as head coach, the 2012 UCLA team went 9–5, including a victory over rival USC by a score of 38–28 and clinching the Pac-12 South title for the second year in a row. Standout players that year included freshman quarterback Brett Hundley, NFL first-round draft pick defensive end Datone Jones, and UCLA's all-time leading rusher Johnathan Franklin. Building on the team's success, Mora landed the No. 11-ranked recruiting class of 2013, UCLA's highest ranked recruiting class in the last two decades. During the 2013 season, Mora and the Bruins finished 10–3 with notable wins over No. 23 ranked Nebraska (41–21) and No. 23 ranked USC (35–14), and a Sun Bowl win against Virginia Tech (42–12). In 2014, he led UCLA to their ninth 10-win season in school history, and just the third time in their history that they have won 10 games in consecutive seasons.\n\nBecause of his success at UCLA, Mora was courted by his alma mater, the University of Washington, to fill their vacated head coaching position. During his time as head coach of the Atlanta Falcons, Mora jokingly described the position at the University of Washington as his \"dream job.\" However, Mora turned down a reputed offer and extended his contract with UCLA for another six years, stating that he wants to eventually \"hopefully retire\" as head coach of UCLA. Weeks later, Mora reaffirmed his intent to remain UCLA's head football coach by turning down a reputed offer for the head coaching position with the University of Texas. In 2014, Mora earned almost $3.5 million, which is a 44 percent increase over the $2.4 million he earned in 2013, making him the highest-paid employee of the state of California as of that year.\n\nJim Mora was fired on November 19, 2017, one day after UCLA's third consecutive loss to its crosstown rival USC. After going 29–11 through the first 3 seasons, he was 17–19 in the last 3 seasons.\n\nAfter his dismissal by the Seahawks, Mora accepted a position as a commentator with the NFL Network.\n\nIn August 2010, Fox Sports announced that Mora would be serving as a color analyst on the network's NFL coverage for the 2010 season. He was a sideline reporter and teamed with play-by-play announcer Dick Stockton and analyst Charles Davis to call regional games.\n\nDuring NFL Network's Thursday Night Football schedule, Mora, alongside analysts Kurt Warner, Sterling Sharpe, Brian Billick, Jay Glazer, and host Fran Charles could be seen on Thursday Night Kickoff Presented by Sears from Los Angeles. Mora and Billick could also be seen every Monday during the season on \"The Coaches Show\", providing a breakdown of the biggest storylines and decisions behind Sunday's matchups from a head coach's perspective.\n\nIn July 2019, it was announced that Mora would be serving as a rotating color analyst on the network's ESPN College Football coverage.\n\nMora has separated from his wife, Shannon. They have a daughter, Lillia, and three sons, Cole, Ryder, and Trey. His son, Ryder, is a freshman at the University of Maryland and graduated from Loyola High School in Los Angeles, CA. Ryder was also a member of Loyola's lacrosse team that won two Southern Section championships, while he was there. Jim's daughter, Lillia, is a senior at USC.\n\nMora has two brothers, Stephen, a mortgage broker in Bend, Oregon and Michael, an architect in Seattle. With middle name Lawrence after his grandfather, Mora is not a junior, as his father's middle name is Earnest.\n\nThe Moras run the Count On Me Family Foundation, an organization that targets children from low socio-economic backgrounds, children with mental and physical disabilities, and children deemed \"at-risk,\" as well as those that lack stability or support in their lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830058", "title": "Alonso Pita da Veiga", "text": "Alonso Pita da Veiga\n\nAlonso Pita da Veiga, born in Ferrol in 15th century Galicia, Spain, was a Spanish military officer. He was among the commanders of the Spanish Tercios fighting under the orders of Count Fernando de Andrade in the Battle of Pavia, and in other battles of the Italian Wars between 1513 and 1525. He was granted the right to display a coat of arms, and was granted land and property in Ferrolterra, his birthplace, for having participated in the capture, on the battlefield, of the king of France, Francis I.\n\nThe decree granting a coat of arms to Alonso Pita da Veiga was archived at the General Archive of Simancas (\"Archivo general de Simancas, legajo 388, rotulado de \"Mercedes y Privilegios.\"\") and was issued by Emperor Charles V on 24 July 1529, four years after the Battle of Pavia. A verbatim text of the decree can be found in, among other 19th century Spanish books, in the book \"Crisol historico espanol y restauracion de glorias nacionales\", published in Havana, Cuba in 1862 by the Spanish historian José Ferrer de Couto. A summary of the document, in English translation, gives the following details:\n\n\"Alonso Pita da Veiga, Galician, and our vassal\" served his majesty well in several battles including the Battle of Bicencio and the Battle of Vicoca.\n\nIn regards to the Battle of Pavia, the decree states that Alonso Pita da Veiga recaptured the standard \" ... of His Most Serene Infante Don Fernando, who is now King of Hungary, Our most dear and loved son and brother, which bore the insignia of Our Duchy of Burgundy, which the French had taken when the standard-bearer was killed”. This refers to the standard of Ferdinand, the brother of Charles V, whose troops fought at Pavia. For this action, Alonso Pita da Veiga was awarded 600 gold ducats.\n\nIn regards to the capture of King Francis I of France, the decree states \"and in the same battle, you accomplished so much that you reached the person of said King (Francis I of France) and captured him, jointly with the other persons that captured him.” So, in effect, Charles V credited a group of individuals, and not a single individual, with the capture of King Francis I. For that action, Alonso Pita da Veiga was awarded the sum of 30,0000 maravedís per year, for life, \"above and beyond your pay as an \"hombre de arma\"\". \"Hombre de arma\" was a term used in that era to signify a mounted warrior as opposed to a foot soldier.\n\nThe decree states that Alonso Pita da Veiga took from Francis I of France the following: \"and you took from him his left gauntlet and a brocade decorated with four crosses of silver cloth and a crucifix made of the True Cross, of which events the same King of France gave testimony in a document signed by his own hand.\"\n\nThe decree then awards Alonso Pita da Veiga a coat of arms, described in the decree, that incorporates the different elements of his deeds at the Battle of Pavia:\n\n“A coat of arms, quartered, the first quarter colored the color of blood and in it a gauntlet as a symbol that you took said King of France, and a royal Crown of gold above of said gauntlet; and in the lower quarter, a blue field with three gold fleur-de-lis which are the true arms of the Kings of France; and in the right quarter with the field colored as the superior quarter and in it the brocade decorated with its crosses; and the left quarter, likewise colored, and in it the said standard of the Most Serene King of Hungary with the arms of Our Duchy of Burgundy.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830064", "title": "What the Butler Saw (play)", "text": "What the Butler Saw (play)\n\nWhat the Butler Saw is a two-act farce written by the English playwright Joe Orton. He began work on the play in 1966 and completed it in July of 1967, one month before his death. It premiered at the Queen's Theatre in London on 5 March 1969. Orton's final play, it was the second to be performed after his death, following \"Funeral Games\" in 1968.\n\n\nThe play consists of two acts—though the action is continuous—and revolves around a Dr. Prentice, a psychiatrist attempting to seduce his attractive prospective secretary, Geraldine Barclay. The play opens with the doctor examining Geraldine Barclay in a job interview. As part of the interview, he persuades her to undress. The situation becomes more intense during Dr. Prentice's supposed \"interview\" with Geraldine Barclay when Mrs Prentice enters. When his wife enters, he attempts to cover up his activity by hiding the girl behind a curtain. His wife, however, is also being seduced and blackmailed by a Nicholas Beckett. She, therefore, promises Nicholas the post as secretary, which adds further confusion, including Nicholas, Geraldine and a police officer dressing as a member of the opposite sex.\n\nDr. Prentice's clinic is also faced with a government inspection, led by Dr. Rance, which reveals the chaos in the clinic. Dr. Rance talks about how he will use the situation to develop a new book: \"The final chapters of my book are knitting together: incest, buggery, outrageous women and strange love-cults catering for depraved appetites. All the fashionable bric-a-brac.\" A penis (\"the missing parts of Sir Winston Churchill\") is held aloft in the climactic scene.\n\nThe original production was staged at the Queen's Theatre by Lewenstein-Delfont Productions Ltd and H. M. Tennent Ltd and opened on 5 March 1969. The production was directed by Robert Chetwyn and designed by Hutchinson Scott.\n\n\nThe play was adapted for BBC2's \"Theatre Night\" series, first transmitted on 24 May 1987, produced by Shaun Sutton, and directed by Barry Davis.\n\n\nChannel 4's \"Blow Your Mind – See a Show\" series included a short extract from the play. Featuring Brian Cox as Doctor Prentice, Frances Barber as Mrs Prentice, and Clive Owen as Nicholas Beckett, it was transmitted on 18 September 1995.\n\nThe play was revived in 1994 at The Royal Exchange Theatre, directed by Robert Delamere and run from 7 April to 7 May.\n\n\nIn the same year, a Royal National Theatre production of the play premiered at Theatre Royal, Bath. The production moved to the RNT′s Lyttelton Theatre stage in 1995. Phyllida Lloyd directed the play.\n\n\nThere was a further revival in 2012 at the Vaudeville Theatre, directed by Sean Foley, which ran from 16 May to 25 August.\n\n\nThere was a 2017 production directed by Nikolai Foster at the Curve Theatre in Leicester.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830073", "title": "Antoine Rigaudeau", "text": "Antoine Rigaudeau\n\nAntoine Roger Rigaudeau (born December 17, 1971) is a French former professional basketball player and professional basketball coach. During his playing days, he played at the point guard, shooting guard, and small forward positions. Also during his playing career, his nickname was \"Le Roi\" (\"The King\").\n\nDuring his pro club career, he won two EuroLeague championships, in 1998 and 2001. With France's national team, he won the silver medal at the 2000 Sydney Summer Olympics. He was inducted into the French Basketball Hall of Fame in 2010. He became a FIBA Hall of Fame player in 2015.\n\nRigaudeau won the French Pro A League championship with Pau-Orthez, in 1996. With Virtus Bologna, he won the EuroLeague championship in the EuroLeague 1997–98 and EuroLeague 2000–01 seasons. With the same club, he also played in the EuroLeague Finals in 1999 and 2002. With Virtus Bologna, he also won two Italian Serie A League championships, in 1998 and 2001; and three Italian Cup titles, in 1999, 2001, and 2002.\n\nRigaudeau played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) with the Dallas Mavericks, during their 2002–03 season, after he signed a 3 year contract with the club, on 17 January 2003. With the Mavericks, he played in a total of 11 games, and averaged 1.5 points, 0.7 rebounds, and 0.5 assists per game, in 8.3 minutes played per game. On 18 August 2003, the Mavericks traded Rigaudeau's player rights to the Golden State Warriors, prior to the start of the 2003–04 NBA season. On 5 September 2003, the Warriors released Rigaudeau.\n\nAfter playing in the 2002–03 NBA season with the Dallas Mavericks, Rigaudeau returned to Europe, and joined the Spanish ACB League club Valencia. He officially retired from playing pro club basketball in 2005, after he had previously suffered an Achilles tendon injury on his left foot.\n\nRigaudeau was a member of the senior French national team. He represented France at the 1991 EuroBasket, the 1993 EuroBasket, the 1995 EuroBasket, and the 1999 EuroBasket. With France, he won the silver medal at the 2000 Summer Olympic Games.\n\nIn 2001, before that year's EuroBasket tournament, Rigaudeau retired from playing with the senior French national team. However, he later decided to rejoin the national team for the 2005 EuroBasket, where he won the bronze medal. He retired again from the French national team after that tournament. He had a total of 127 appearances with France's senior national team.\n\nRigaudeau began his professional coaching career in 2015, when he became the head coach of the French Pro A League club Paris-Levallois, which was later renamed to Metropolitans 92.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830074", "title": "Hopperstad Stave Church", "text": "Hopperstad Stave Church\n\nHopperstad Stave Church () is a historic parish church of the Church of Norway in Vik Municipality in Vestland county, Norway. It is located in the village of Vikøyri. It was once the church for the Hopperstad parish in the Diocese of Bjørgvin. The church is currently owned by the Society for the Preservation of Ancient Norwegian Monuments. The brown, wooden stave church was built during the 12th century. The church seats about 30 people.\n\nThe stave church is assumed to have been built around the year 1130 and still stands at its original location. In 1997, a series of samples from the logs were collected for dendrochronological dating of the church. A total of seven samples produced an estimate for the construction ranging from 1034 to 1116 and resulted in no definite conclusion. The only possible conclusion is that this is one of the oldest stave churches still standing in Norway.\n\nThe church is currently owned by the Society for the Preservation of Ancient Norwegian Monuments. The two old parishes of Hopperstad and Hove were abolished in 1875, and replaced by the new, united, Vik parish. The new Vik Church was finished in 1877, and the two medieval churches of Hopperstad and Hove have since then been turned into museums.\n\nThere is a replica of the Hopperstad reconstruction at the Heritage Hjemkomst Center in the city of Moorhead in the state of Minnesota in the United States. It was consecrated in 1998.\n\nThe earliest existing historical records of the church date back to the 1100s, probably between 1130 and 1150.\n\nAbout 700 years after its construction the church was abandoned and its exterior stripped. The church was in very poor condition for many years until the Society for the Preservation of Ancient Norwegian Monuments purchased the building in 1880. Using the Borgund Stave Church as a model, architect Peter Andreas Blix reconstructed the church between 1884 and 1891. During the reconstruction, carved sections were found beneath the floor which indicates that the new church replaced an older church, which was probably built in the latter half of the 11th century.\n\nThe church had not undergone any major changes until the 17th century. At that time the nave was lengthened to the west, and a bell-tower was added above the new extension. To the east a log section was added, and a new vestibule to the south with its own entrance.\n\nThe largest addition came to the north with a log construction, named the new church (\"nykirken\"). The constructions were finalized in the 18th century, but then removed in around 1875. There are no known images of the interior from this time, but a story written by the priest \"Niels Dahl\", who is assumed to have visited the church in 1824, describes the interior.\n\nThe church is a triple-nave stave church of what is known as the Borgund-type. It has three portals, and the western portal is an excellent example of Middle Age wood carving. The motifs are of a romance character, often associated with European influence. The nave is a raised central room with an aisle around it, and the choir is apsidal and narrower than the nave.\n\nThe church contains an altar dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and 14th-century ciborium with a baldachin on the north side. The ciborium has four sculptured heads, that of Christ with a halo, a queen, a king, and a monk. The roof of the baldachin bears a painting of the birth of Christ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830076", "title": "An American Dilemma", "text": "An American Dilemma\n\nAn American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy is a 1944 study of race relations authored by Swedish Nobel-laureate economist Gunnar Myrdal and funded by Carnegie Corporation of New York. The foundation chose Myrdal because it thought that as a non-American, he could offer a more unbiased opinion. Myrdal's volume, at nearly 1,500 pages, painstakingly detailed what he saw as obstacles to full participation in American society that American blacks faced as of the 1940s. Ralph Bunche served as Gunnar Myrdal's main researcher and writer at the start of the project in the Fall of 1938.\n\nIt sold over 100,000 copies and went through 25 printings before going into its second edition in 1965. It was enormously influential in how racial issues were viewed in the United States, and it was cited in the landmark \"Brown v. Board of Education\" case \"in general\". The book was generally positive in its outlook on the future of race relations in America, taking the view that democracy would triumph over racism. In many ways it laid the groundwork for future policies of racial integration and affirmative action.\n\nMyrdal believed he saw a vicious cycle in which whites oppressed blacks, and then pointed to blacks' poor performance as reason for the oppression. The way out of this cycle, he argued, was to either cure whites of the prejudice he believed existed, or to improve the circumstances of blacks, which would then disprove whites' preconceived notions. Myrdal called this process the \"principle of cumulation\".\n\nIn \"Black-White Relations: The American Dilemma\", economist Junfu Zhang gives this description of Myrdal's work:\n\nMyrdal, writing before the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s, alleged that northern whites were generally ignorant of the situation facing Negro citizens, and noted that \"to get publicity is of the highest strategic importance to the Negro people\". This proved, given the pivotal role played by the press in the movement, to be strikingly prescient.\n\nAt the center of Myrdal's work in \"An American Dilemma\" was his postulate that political and social interaction in the United States is shaped by an \"American Creed\". This creed emphasizes the ideals of individualism, civil liberties, and equality of opportunity. Myrdal claims that it is the \"American Creed\" that keeps the diverse melting pot of the United States together. It is the common belief in this creed that endows all people—whites, blacks, rich, poor, male, female, and immigrants alike—with a common cause and allows them to co-exist as one nation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830082", "title": "Russell K. Osgood", "text": "Russell K. Osgood\n\nRussell King Osgood was the twelfth president of Grinnell College (1998–2010) and a professor of history and political science. He is a legal scholar and holds a B.A. and J.D. from Yale University, formerly serving as the dean of Cornell Law School. In 2003, Russell Osgood was the highest paid liberal arts college president in the U.S.; he earned $509,130 in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2004. Since 2010, he is currently serving as a Visiting Professor of Law at Washington University in St. Louis School of Law.\n\n\nOsgood's present administrative actions at Grinnell revolved around a strategic plan approved by the trustees in Spring 2005. The five-year plan's goals included increasing the emphasis on inquiry-based learning and broadening the curriculum; fostering faculty, student, and staff sense of ambition, adventure, and well-being; advancing Grinnell College as a more diverse, robust intellectual community; improving the fiscal balance and stability of the college; contributing to the vitality of the city of Grinnell; and strengthening the public profile of Grinnell College, Grinnellians, and the value of a Grinnell education. \nThe Grinnell campus has undergone much construction and renovation in the 2000s. Though the plans began during the tenure of the previous president, Pamela Ferguson, many of the projects have occurred under Osgood. World-renowned architect Cesar Pelli has designed several of the recent buildings.\n\nOsgood stepped down from his post as president of Grinnell, effective July 31, 2010. The Board of Trustees later chose Raynard S. Kington as Osgood's successor. Reflecting on his experiences teaching both undergraduates and law students, Osgood said he \"enjoyed interacting with law students as a teacher and dean, but he says he enjoys undergraduates more. 'I like law students,' he says, 'but they're much more developed and formed. Undergraduates are still making fundamental choices in their life. It’s more interesting to interact with them.'\" \n\nIn January 2011, Osgood was named a semi-finalist for the position of Dean of the Boston College Law School.\n\nOsgood is married, with four grown children and three dogs.\n\nStudents, staff, and faculty report seeing him jogging at ungodly hours in short, red swimsuits.\n\n\"I have about 15 pairs of bathing suits,\" Osgood said, \"About half of them are red. I don’t know why I have 15. If you see me around my house at night, you’ll see me wearing them. I just wear them as shorts. Not just for running purposes—I wear them when I fly on planes.”\n\n\"Cases and Materials on Employee Benefits.\" with Peter J. Wiedenbeck, Washington University School of Law in St. Louis\n\n\"The Law in Massachusetts. The Supreme Judicial Court 1692-1992\", Editor and Contributor, 1992, Supreme Judicial Court Historical Society\n\n\"The Law of Pensions and Profit-Sharing. Qualified Retirement Plans and Other Deferred Compensation Arrangements\" (1984, Little Brown) with Supplements.\n"}
{"id": "1830091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830091", "title": "Kaupanger Stave Church", "text": "Kaupanger Stave Church\n\nKaupanger Stave Church () is the largest stave church in Vestland county, Norway. It is a parish church of the Church of Norway in Sogndal Municipality and it is located in the village of Kaupanger, on the northern shore of the Sognefjorden. It is the church for the Kaupanger parish which is part of the Sogn prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Bjørgvin. The brown, wooden church was built in the mid-12th century (around 1140) and it has been in use ever since that time. The church seats about 125 people.\n\nThe church is a Norwegian Cultural Heritage Site and it is owned by the Society for the Preservation of Ancient Norwegian Monuments. The nave is supported by 22 staves (large bearing columns), eight on each of the longer sides and three on each of the shorter. The elevated chancel is carried by four free standing staves. The church has the largest number of staves to be found in any one stave church. It is the largest of the five stave churches in Sogn og Fjordane county.\n\nThe earliest existing historical records of the church date back to the year 1308, but the church was likely built in the mid-12th century, around the year 1140. It is situated on the ruins of what might be two previous stave churches. Kaupanger was a market town that King Sverre burned down in 1184 to punish the local inhabitants for disobeying him. It was previously thought that the stave church previously standing on this site burned down in this fire, as archaeological research in the 1960s revealed that the previous church had burned down. The present church was therefore believed to have been built around 1190. Recent research has changed these assumptions. Dendrochronology has shown that the timber used for building the church was cut in 1137. Also, Sverris saga makes no mention of the burning of the church at the time the town was burnt. Consequently, it is now assumed that the church was built around 1140-1150.\n\nSeveral restoration projects have taken place both inside the church and on the exterior. A major reconstruction was carried out in 1862, which has been called a \"brutal modernization\". New rows of windows were cut into the sides of the church, white exterior panelling was installed and dark roof tiles covered the old shingle roof. In 1959-1960, a restoration was carried out and many of the 1862 changes were undone and it was brought back to its 17th century look. The pulpit, altarpiece and font are all from the 17th century. In 1984, composer Arne Nordheim was inspired by the neumes and the sound of the medieval bells in Kaupanger stave church in composing the work \"Klokkesong\", which was first performed inside the church as part of the 800th commemoration of the Battle of Fimreite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830093", "title": "Chibcha language", "text": "Chibcha language\n\nChibcha is an extinct language of Colombia, spoken by the Muisca, one of the many advanced indigenous civilizations of the Americas. The Muisca inhabited the central highlands (Altiplano Cundiboyacense) of what today is the country of Colombia.\n\nThe name of the language Muysc Cubun in its own language means \"language of the people\" or \"language of the men\", from \"muysca\" (\"people\" or \"men\") and \"cubun\" (\"language\" or \"word\").\n\nImportant scholars who have contributed to the knowledge of the Chibcha language were Juan de Castellanos, Bernardo de Lugo, José Domingo Duquesne and Ezequiel Uricoechea.\n\nIn prehistorical times, in the Andean civilizations called preceramic, the population of northwestern South America happened through the Darien Gap between the isthmus of Panama and Colombia. Other Chibchan languages are spoken in southern Central America and the Muisca and related indigenous groups took their language with them into the heart of Colombia where they settled in their Muisca Confederation.\n\nAs early as 1580 the authorities in Charcas, Quito, and Santa Fe de Bogotá mandated the establishment of schools in native languages and required that priests study these languages before ordination. In 1606 the entire clergy was ordered to provide religious instruction in Chibcha. The Chibcha language declined in the 18th century.\n\nIn 1770, King Charles III of Spain officially banned use of the language in the region as part of a de-indigenization project. The ban remained in law until Colombia passed its constitution of 1991.\n\nModern Muisca scholars have investigated \"Muysccubun\" and concluded that the variety of languages was much larger than previously thought. The quick colonization of the Spanish and the improvised use of traveling translators has reduced the differences between the versions of Chibcha over time.\n\nSince 2009 an online Spanish-Muysccubun dictionary containing more than 2000 words is online. The project was partly financed by the University of Bergen, Norway.\n\n\nThe \"muysccubun\" alphabet consists of around 20 letters. The Muisca didn't have an \"L\" in their language. The letters are pronounded more or less as follows:\n\na - as in Spanish \"casa\"; ka - \"enclosure\" or \"fence\"<br>\ne - as in \"action\"; izhe - \"street\"<br>\ni - open \"i\" as in \"'inca\" - sié - \"water\" or \"river\"<br>\no - short \"o\" as in \"box\" - to - \"dog\"<br>\nu - \"ou\" as in \"you\" - uba - \"face\"<br>\ny - between \"i\" and \"e\"; \"a\" in action - ty - \"singing\"<br>\nb - as in \"bed\", or as in Spanish \"haba\"; - bohozhá - \"with\"<br>\nch - \"sh\" as in \"shine\", but with the tongue pushed backwards - chuta - \"son\" or \"daughter\"<br>\nf - between a \"b\" and \"w\" using both lips without producing sound, a short whistle - foï - \"mantle\"<br>\ng - \"gh\" as in \"good\", or as in Spanish \"abogado\"; - gata - \"fire\"<br>\nh - as in \"hello\" - huïá - \"inwards\"<br>\nï - \"i-e\" as in Beelzebub - ïe - \"road\" or \"prayer\"<br>\nk - \"c\" as in \"cold\" - kony - \"wheel\"<br>\nm - \"m\" as in \"man\" - mika - \"three\"<br>\nn - \"n\" as in \"nice\" - nyky - \"brother\" or \"sister\"<br>\np - \"p\" as in \"people\" - paba - \"father\"<br>\ns - \"s\" as in \"sorry\" - sahawá - \"husband\"<br>\nt - \"t\" as in \"text\" - yta - \"hand\"<br>\nw - \"w\" as in \"wow!\" - we - \"house\"<br>\nzh - as in \"chorizo\", but with the tongue to the back - zhysky - \"head\"\n\nThe accentuation of the words is like in Spanish on the second-last syllable except when an accent is shown: Bacata is Ba-CA-ta and Bacatá is Ba-ca-TA.\n\nIn case of repetition of the same vowel, the word can be shortened: fuhuchá ~ fuchá - \"woman\".\n\nIn Chibcha, words are made of combinations where sometimes vowels are in front of the word. When this happens in front of another vowel, the vowel changes as follows:\na-uba becomes oba - \"his (or her, its) face\"<br>\na-ita becomes eta - \"his base\"<br>\na-yta becomes ata - \"his hand\" (note: ata also means \"one\")\n\nSometimes this combination is not performed and the words are written with the prefix plus the new vowel:\na-ita would become eta but can be written as aeta, a-uba as aoba and a-yta as ayta\n\nCounting 1 to 10 in Chibcha is \"ata, bozha, mika, myhyká, hyzhká, ta, kuhupkwá, suhuzhá, aka, hubchihiká\". The Muisca only had numbers one to ten and the 'perfect' number 20; \"gueta\", used extensively in their complex lunisolar Muisca calendar. For numbers higher than 10 they used additions; \"hubchikiká asaqui ata\" (\"ten plus one\") for eleven. Higher numbers were multiplications of twenty; \"gue-hisca\" would be \"twenty times five\"; 100.\n\nThe subjects in Chibcha do not have genders nor plurals. to thus can mean \"male dog\", \"male dogs\", \"female dog\" or \"female dogs\". To solve this, the Muisca used the numbers and the word for \"man\"; cha and \"woman\"; fuhuchá to specify gender and plural:\n\nThe possessive pronoun is placed before the word it refers to.\n\n\nThe Muisca used two types of verbs, ending on -skua and -suka; bkyskua (\"to do\") and guitysuka (\"to whip\") which have different forms in their grammatical conjugations. bkyskua is shown below, for verbs ending on -suka, see .\n\n\n\n\n\nThis list is a selection from the online dictionary and is sortable. Note the different potatoes and types of maize and their meaning.\n\nWords of \"Muysccubun\" origin are still used in the departments of Cundinamarca of which Bogotá is the capital, and the department of Boyacá, with capital Tunja. These include \"curuba\" (Colombian fruit banana passionfruit), \"toche\" (yellow oriole), \"guadua\" (a large bamboo used in construction) and \"tatacoa\" (\"snake\"). The Muisca descendants continue many traditional ways, such as the use of certain foods, use of \"coca\" for teas and healing rituals, and other aspects of natural ways, which are a deep part of culture in Colombia.\n\nAs the Muisca did not have words for specific things in early colonial times, they borrowed them from Spanish, such as \"shoe\"; \"çapato\", \"sword\"; \"espada\", \"knife\"; \"cuchillo\" and other words.\n\nThe only public school in Colombia currently teaching Chibcha (to about 150 children) is in the town of Cota, about by road from Bogotá. The school is named \"Jizcamox\" (healing with the hands) in Chibcha.\n\nMost of the original Muisca names of the villages, rivers and national parks and some of the provinces in the central highlands of the Colombian Andes are kept or slightly altered. Usually the names refer to farmfields (\"ta\"), the Moon goddess Chía, her husband Sué, names of \"caciques\", the topography of the region, built enclosures (\"ca\") and animals of the region.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830096", "title": "Al Harris (cornerback)", "text": "Al Harris (cornerback)\n\nAlshinard Harris (born December 7, 1974) is a former NFL cornerback and current coach. Harris played for fourteen seasons in the National Football League (NFL) from 1998 to 2011. He is currently an assistant secondary coach for the Dallas Cowboys. Harris played for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Philadelphia Eagles, Green Bay Packers, Miami Dolphins, and St. Louis Rams. He was selected for the Pro Bowl after his 2007 and 2008 seasons in Green Bay. The AP also named him a second-team All-Pro in 2007.\n\nHarris was known throughout the league for his physical, bump and run coverage style and was also known for his long, stringy dreadlocks, influencing others in the NFL. He was drafted by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the sixth round of the 1997 NFL Draft. He played college football at Texas A&M-Kingsville.\n\nHarris spent two seasons (1993–94) at Trinity Valley Community College in Athens, Texas where he was a member of the 1994 national championship team. He then transferred to Texas A&M University-Kingsville where he was a two-year starter and letterman (1995–96). Harris was a first-team All-Lone Star Conference pick in 1996.\n\nHarris was drafted in the sixth round of the 1997 NFL draft by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He spent the entire season on their practice squad. He spent the 1998 preseason with the Buccaneers, but was released on August 30.\n\nHarris was claimed off waivers by the Philadelphia Eagles on August 31, 1998. He made his NFL debut a week later against the Seattle Seahawks as the starting right cornerback in place of injured Bobby Taylor. He started seven games and played in all 16 during the 1998 season. On November 6, 2000, Harris signed a five-year contract extension with the Eagles.\n\nFollowing the 2002 season, Green Bay acquired Harris and a fourth round choice in that year's draft in exchange for the Packers' second round selection. Harris went on to start all 32 regular season games over the next two seasons for Green Bay.\n\nIn a 2003 NFC wildcard playoff game against the Seattle Seahawks Harris returned an interception 52 yards for the game-winning touchdown 4:25 in overtime, making it the first playoff game ever to be won in overtime with a defensive touchdown. The game was memorable for Seahawks quarterback Matt Hasselbeck's ironic comment after winning the coin toss for the start of overtime, telling the microphoned referee, and thus the crowd at Lambeau Field and the national television audience, \"We want the ball, and we're going to score.\"\n\nIn a 2004 NFC wildcard playoff game, Harris was the cornerback in primary coverage of Vikings' star wide receiver Randy Moss, who, upon catching his second touchdown of the game while being covered by Harris, famously \"mooned\" the crowd at Lambeau Field, an act for which Moss was fined $10,000.\n\nIn 2005, Harris only allowed one touchdown in coverage, and Harris finished the season with three sacks, ten pass deflections, and three interceptions (one for touchdown in a 52-3 win over the New Orleans Saints).\nIn 2006, Harris finished the season with three interceptions and 14 pass deflections.\n\nOn February 13, 2007 it was announced that Harris signed a two-year contract extension with the Packers. The deal was an add-on to the five-year, $18.7 million extension that Harris signed in 2004, a contract that included about $7 million in guarantees. That extension still had three seasons remaining on it, through 2009. Financial details of the new extension were not yet available, but Harris told the Wisconsin State Journal that it included two roster bonuses totaling $4.5 million, along with some Pro Bowl incentives.\n\nHarris played in the 2008 Pro Bowl, along with teammates Brett Favre, Chad Clifton, Donald Driver, and Aaron Kampman, as well as head coach Mike McCarthy.\n\nHarris was originally thought to be out for the remainder of the 2008 season because of a ruptured spleen suffered during the first quarter of the game against Dallas, when he collided with fellow Green Bay Packer A.J. Hawk. However, Harris came back to the Packers in their game against the Tennessee Titans on November 2, 2008.\n\nOn November 22, 2009 Al Harris suffered a potentially career-ending injury to the outside of his left knee in a home game against the San Francisco 49ers. Harris fell to the ground while trailing Niners wide receiver Michael Crabtree; no contact caused the injury, Harris reported his foot simply 'got caught in the ground'. Harris tore the anterior cruciate ligament, the lateral collateral ligament, the iliotibial band, the fibular collateral ligament, and the lateral hamstring. His knee was surgically reconstructed eight days later resulting in Harris spending the remainder of the season rehabilitating his knee.\n\nHarris started the 2010 season on the ' Physically Unable to Perform (PUP)' list, then returned to practice on October 19. On November 8, 2010 Al Harris was taken off the list and waived by the Green Bay Packers. He passed through waivers unclaimed, making him a free agent. Green Bay paid Harris the pro-rated portion of his $2.5 million salary, as the team was not obligated to pay the rest even though he passed through waivers.\n\nOn Sunday, November 21, 2010, Harris took out a large advertisement in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, thanking Packer fans for 'always supporting (him)'. The Packers won the Super Bowl that year, and Harris received a championship ring.\n\nHarris signed a 1-year deal with the Miami Dolphins on November 10, 2010. He played three games before suffering a hamstring injury and was placed on injured reserve. On December 30, 2010, the Dolphins reached an injury settlement with Harris and he was released.\n\nOn July 29, 2011, Harris agreed to terms with the St. Louis Rams. On November 13, 2011, Harris suffered a torn ACL in his right knee during a regular season game against the Cleveland Browns and did not return to the game. The following day, November 14, 2011, Harris was placed on injured reserve.\n\nOn May 1, 2013 Ted Thompson, Packers Executive Vice President, General Manager and Director of Football Operations, stated that Al Harris had informed the team of his decision to retire as a Green Bay Packer. When asked to comment Harris said, \"Just over my career I had an awesome time, but the better part of my years were in Green Bay, (so) it was just important to me to retire as a Packer,\" nearly 3½ years since he played his final snap for the Packers. \"I had a great experience in Philadelphia, great experience in Tampa and everywhere else I played, but Green Bay is a special place to play football.\"\n\nDuring the 2012 season, Harris served as a coaching intern under coach Joe Philbin for the Miami Dolphins.\n\nHarris was hired as the assistant defensive backs coach under his former head coach from his playing day with the Eagles; Andy Ried, for the Kansas City Chiefs on January 25, 2013. Following a disappointing performance by the Chiefs defense in the AFC Championship for the 2018 season, Harris, as well as the entire defensive coaching staff, was replaced.\n\nIn 2020 Harris was hired to work with the secondary of the Dallas Cowboys under his former head coach form his playing days with the Packers; Mike McCarthy.\n\nStats from Pro Football Reference\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1830104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830104", "title": "Caddo language", "text": "Caddo language\n\nCaddo is a Native American language, the traditional language of the Caddo Nation. It is critically endangered, with no exclusively Caddo-speaking community and only 25 speakers as of 2009 who acquired the language as children outside school instruction. Caddo has several mutually intelligible dialects. The most commonly used dialects are Hasinai and Hainai; others include Kadohadacho, Natchitoches and Yatasi.\n\nCaddo is linguistically related to the members of the Northern Caddoan language family; these include the Pawnee-Kitsai (Keechi) languages (Arikara, Kitsai, and Pawnee) and the Wichita language. Kitsai and Wichita are now extinct, and Pawnee and Arikara each have fewer surviving speakers than Caddo does.\n\nAnother language, Adai, is postulated to have been a Caddoan language while it was extant, but because of scarce resources and the language's extinct status, this connection is not conclusive, and Adai is generally considered a language isolate.\n\nThe Caddo Nation is making a concentrated effort to save the Caddo language. The Kiwat Hasinay ('Caddo Home') foundation, located at the tribal home of Binger, Oklahoma, offers regular Caddo language classes, in addition to creating dictionaries, phrase books, and other Caddo language resources. They have also made a long-term project of trying to record and digitally archive Caddoan oral traditions, which are an important part of Caddo culture. As of 2012, the Caddo Nation teaches weekly language classes; language CDs, a coloring book, and an online learning website are also available. As of 2010, a Caddo app is available for Android phones.\n\nThere is a Caddo grammar, published August 2018,\nand an in-depth examination of the Caddo verb, published in 2004.\n\nCaddo has 19 contrastive consonants, a normal-sized consonant inventory. It is somewhat unusual in that it lacks liquid consonants. The IPA symbols for the consonants of Caddo are given below:\n\nCaddo also features contrastive gemination of consonants, which is generally indicated in orthography by a double letter: /nɑ́ttih/ \"woman.\"\n\nCaddo has three contrastive vowel qualities, , , and , and two contrastive vowel lengths, long and short, for a total of 6 vowel phonemes. \nHowever, there is a great deal of phonetic variation in the short vowels. The high front vowel is generally realized as its lower counterpart , and the high back vowel is similarly often realized as its lower counterpart . The low central vowel has a wider range of variation, pronounced (most commonly) as when it is followed by any consonant except a semivowel or a laryngeal consonant, as a low central vowel (for which IPA lacks a symbol) at the end of an open syllable or when followed by a laryngeal consonant, and as before a semivowel.\n\nIn general, the long vowels do not feature this kind of variation but are simply lengthened versions of the phonemes that are represented in the chart.\n\nCaddo also has four diphthongs, which can be written a number of different ways; the transcription below shows the typical Caddo Nation orthography (a vowel paired with a glide) and the IPA version, represented with vowels and offglides.\n\nCaddo is a tone language. There are three tones in Caddo: low tone, which is unmarked '; high tone, which is marked by an acute accent over the vowel '; and falling tone, which is always long and marked by a grave accent over the vowel .\n\nTone occurs both lexically (as a property of the word), non-lexically (as a result of tonological processes), and also as a marker of certain morphological features. For instance, the past tense marker is associated with high tone.\n\nThere are three processes that can create non-lexical high tone within a syllable nucleus. See the section below for an explanation of other phonological changes which may occur in the following examples.\n\nThere are two vowel syncope processes in Caddo, which both involve the loss of a low-tone vowel in certain environments. The first syncope process was described above as low tone-deletion. The second syncope process is described below:\n\nAs a result of the syncope processes described above, several consonant clusters emerge that are then simplified by way of phonological process. At the present stage of research, the processes seem to be unrelated, but they represent a phonetic reduction in consonant clusters; therefore, they are listed below without much further explanation.\n\nSimilar to the consonant cluster simplification process, there are four processes by which a syllable-final consonant is altered:\n\nThere are three word-boundary processes in Caddo, all of which occur word-initially:\n\nSuch processes are generally not applicable in the case of proclitics (morphemes that behave like an affix and are phonologically dependent on the morpheme to which they are attached). An example is the English articles.\n\nCaddo has a glottalization process by which any voiceless stop or affricate (except p) becomes an ejective when it is followed by a glottal stop.\n\nCaddo has a palatalization process that affects certain consonants when they are followed by /j/, with simultaneous loss of the /j/.\n\nCaddo has three processes by which a syllable nucleus (vowel) may be lengthened: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830107", "title": "Høyjord Stave Church", "text": "Høyjord Stave Church\n\nHøyjord Stave Church () is a stave church in the village of Høyjord in Andebu in the municipality of Sandefjord in Vestfold og Telemark county, Norway. It is the only stave church left in Vestfold County.\n\nThe church was built at the end of the 11th century. The church was later removed once and rebuilt. The last reconstruction was completed between\n1948 and 1953, at which time major changes were made and the church received the design it has today. The church is also the only remaining stave church in Vestfold county. The church is one of two preserved churches with a pillar or post in the middle. In addition to this central post there are 12 staves, all of which support the building. Each stave has a unique design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830108", "title": "Classical Newari", "text": "Classical Newari\n\nClassical Newari (Modern: पुलां भाय्, Classical: पुलाङु नेपाल भाय्), also known as Old Newari or Classical Nepal Bhasa, is the pre-1850 literary form of Nepal Bhasa. It is an important source language for historians and philologists. The classical Newari language has also been considered a hybrid in which an extensive Sanskrit element was grafted on to the Tibeto-Burman substratum \n\nThe earliest known (dated) document in Nepal Bhasa is called \"The Palmleaf from Uku Bahal\" which dates back to 1114 AD (235 NS).\n<br>\"chīna ḍhākō tr̥saṃghaṣa paribhōga, chu pulēṃga kītya bipāra vastra bivu mikhā tivu maduguna chu sāta dugunava lhai.\"\n\nwhich is a general discussion of business transactions. This document dates from the Licchavi period. Hence, it can be inferred that although the official language of the period was Sanskrit, \"Nepal Bhasa\" was already in use.\n\nThe language continued growing in the Medieval period, and enjoyed royal patronage. Noted royal writers include Mahindra Malla, Siddhinarsingh Malla, Jagatprakash Malla etc. An example of the language used in that period is provided by lines of Mooldevshashidev written by Jagatprakash Malla\n\nwhich is a description of Shiva, and the use of a tiger skin as a seat for Shiva.\n\nThe language replaced Sanskrit as the administrative language during this period.\n\nThis language was the official language of Nepal from Licchavi era to Malla era of Nepal.\n\nClassical Nepal Bhasa was introduced in ISO 639-2 code list in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "1830114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830114", "title": "Redland, Bristol", "text": "Redland, Bristol\n\nRedland is an affluent suburb in Bristol, England. The suburb is situated between Clifton, Cotham, Bishopston and Westbury Park. The boundaries of the district are not precisely defined, but are generally taken to be Whiteladies Road in the west, the Severn Beach railway line in the south and Cranbrook Road in the east.\n\nRedland is also the name of a council ward, which covers a slightly different area. Redland ward extends to the southern part of Bishopston, and does not include the part of Redland south of Redland Road, which is in Cotham ward.\n\nRedland is known as a popular student accommodation area, particularly with second and third year students from the city's university.\n\nThere are different views of the origin of the name Redland. One source says that in the 11th century it was known as \"Rudeland\", possibly from Old English \"rudding\", meaning \"cleared land\". Another source points to a mention in 1209 as \"Thriddeland\", probably meaning \"the third part of an estate\". Yet another source refers to a mention in 1230 of \"Rubea Terra\" and a later mention as \"la Rede Londe\", derived from the red colour of the soil.\n\nFor many centuries Redland was in the large parish of Westbury-on-Trym in Gloucestershire. It became a separate civil parish in 1894, but in 1896 the civil parish was abolished and incorporated into the city and county of Bristol. It remained in the ecclesiastical parish of Westbury-on-Trym until 1942.\n\nIn 1732 the Redland estate was acquired by John Cossins (d.1759) from his wife's uncle George Martin. He replaced the old manor house with Redland Court, a house of Classical design. The estate was sold off in 1865, and the area was then developed for housing.\n\nThe suburb is known for its Georgian parish church Redland Chapel, which was built, probably by John Strahan with plasterwork by Thomas Paty, in 1742 as a private chapel for the local manor house, Redland Court, though it was not consecrated until 1790. It eventually became the parish church when the parish of Redland was separated from Westbury-on-Trym in 1942 and, unusually, has no dedication to a patron saint. It is a Grade I listed building.\n\nThe Swedenborgian church in nearby Cranbrook Road was erected in 1899 and has recently closed. The congregation was formed in 1791 and had a church in Terrel Street. The present gothic church was designed by a Mr Paul of Wells Road and was intended to be a lecture hall alongside a larger church that was never built. Neil Marchant wrote a book ' Like A River Flowing' covering the history of this church which can now be found in Bristol central library. The church is currently up for sale and likely to be redeveloped.\n\nTrinity United Reformed Church in Cranbrook Road closed recently and has been converted into houses. The church began in the recently demolished church hall of 1901 which was demolished for the car park. The main church was built in 1907 to the designs of Phillip Munro in a very Scottish kind of Gothic.\n\nSt Catherines church (Salisbury Road) has been converted to housing. It was erected in 1898 with the intention of a larger church being built alongside. The building is currently a long lancet style with porch - however it closed in the 1950s and was used for storage before being converted to housing.\n\nRedland Park United Reformed Church on the Redland side of Whiteladies Road was founded in 1861 (as Redland Park Congregational Church). The building was destroyed in the Bristol Blitz in 1940, and the new church was opened in 1957. Tyndale Baptist Church, also on the Redland side of Whiteladies Road, was founded in 1867, largely destroyed in the Blitz and rebuilt in 1955.\n\nRedland is home to Redland Green School, a free academy secondary school opened in 2007 which also contains the secondary campus of Claremont Special School. Bristol Steiner School is also in the ward. Redland formerly contained Redland High School, an independent girls' school which merged with The Red Maids' School in September 2017, to form Redmaids' High School.\n\nSt Bonaventure's Catholic Primary School and Bishop Road Primary School are in Redland ward.\n\nThe architecture of the buildings is generally Georgian but with some Victorian buildings and a small number of mid-twentieth century ones.\n\nRedland Court, which is now Redland High School, was built between 1732 and 1735 by John Strachan, for John Cossins, on the site of an Elizabethan House which previously stood on the same site. It is grade II* listed, as are the piers and gates at the main entrance, the perimeter wall, piers and gates to Redland Chapel churchyard and the West gateway and attached garden wall and balustrade.\n\nThere are at least twenty individual houses in Redland having grade II or II* listing.\n\nThe southern part of Redland is served by Redland railway station on the Severn Beach line.\n\nRedland is served by bus service 9 operated by First West of England, which calls at Redland station and loops around the middle of Redland to The Downs. Stagecoach service 77 runs between Bristol bus station to Thornbury via Cranbrook Road, supported by financial contributions from both Bristol City Council and South Gloucestershire Council.\n\nRedland is within the Bristol West Parliamentary constituency.\n\nRedland ward in the is within Bristol City Council jurisdiction and returns two councillors every four years. The incumbents are Fi Hance and Martin Fodor, both of the Green Party.\n\nAt the start of every May a fête is held on Redland Green. This is called the Redland Fair, the Redland May Fair, or simply the May fair, and takes place on the May Day bank holiday.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830120", "title": "Undredal Stave Church", "text": "Undredal Stave Church\n\nUndredal Stave Church () is a parish church in Aurland Municipality in Vestland county, Norway. It is located in the village of Undredal, on the shore of the Aurlandsfjorden. It is the church for the Undredal parish which is part of the Sogn prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Bjørgvin. The white, wooden church was built in a stave church style around the year 1147.\n\nThe church is only and has only 40 seats, making it the smallest stave church still in use in all of Scandinavia. The parish only includes one small, rather isolated valley, with only 116 parishioners, making it the second smallest parish in the Diocese of Bjørgvin.\n\nUndredal Stave Church was built in the middle of the 12th century, probably the year 1147. The church has been moved from different locations and reconstructed a few times. Around 1850, the building was extended to the west with the addition of a belltower and porch. In 1913, there were plans to dismantle the church and move it to a museum in the village of Kaupanger (in Sogndal), but this never happened. Instead it was reconstructed in 1984 and underwent extensive maintenance work. Inside the church, the ceiling is decorated with biblical figures and angels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830124", "title": "Mini flyweight", "text": "Mini flyweight\n\nMini flyweight, also known as strawweight or minimumweight, is a weight class in combat sports.\n\nIn professional boxing, boxers in the minimumweight division may weigh no more than . This is a relatively new weight category for professionals, first inaugurated by the major boxing sanctioning bodies between 1987 and 1990.\n\nThe minimumweight division was originally introduced in 1968 for the Summer Olympic Games under the name light flyweight. However the division was not recognized by any of the four most widely regarded sanctioning bodies until the International Boxing Federation (IBF) in June 1987 when Kyung-Yun Lee knocked out Masaharu Kawakami to become the inaugural champion.\n\nThe division was then later recognized by the World Boxing Council (WBC) in October 1987, the World Boxing Association (WBA) in January 1988, and the World Boxing Organization (WBO) in August 1989, while Ring magazine did not begin ranking minimumweights until 1997 under the name strawweights and has yet to name a champion in their rankings.\n\nHistorically the weight class has been dominated by Latin Americans and Asians with only a limited amount of success coming from other nationalities.\n\nIn the early years of the division, fighters such as Napa Kiatwanchai found success defending the WBC belt. Including early wins over a young up-and-coming Hiroki Ioka who later found success at light flyweight, flyweight, and super flyweight.\n\nOther notable champions of this period included Nico Thomas, Jum-Hwan Choi and Leo Gamez.\n\nOther successful fighters of this period include:\n\n\nThe division also saw its first champions not from Latin America or Asia when Scotland's Paul Weir won the vacant WBO title over Fernando Martinez in May 1993. This was followed by South Africa's Zolani Petelo who won the IBF title in December 1997.\n\nOther notable fighters of this period included, Hi-Yong Choi, Hideyuki Ohashi, Alex Sánchez, Wandee Chor Chareon, Rocky Lin, Ala Villamor, Kermin Guardia, Noel Arambulet, Songkram Porpaoin, and Osvaldo Guerrero.\n\nIn the early part of the decade, José Antonio Aguirre and Iván Calderón were the most decorated champions.\n\nMuhammad Rachman, Yutaka Niida, and Eagle Kyowa became champions. José Antonio Aguirre began to decline but Iván Calderón continued to defend his WBO title until August 2007 when he moved up to light flyweight.\n\nIn the later part of the decade, Oleydong Sithsamerchai, Donnie Nietes, Raúl García, and Román González were champions. \n\nIn the early part of the decade many of the fighters from the end of the 2000s continued to find success. However new faces have included Denver Cuello and Kazuto Ioka (nephew of 1980s champion Hiroki Ioka). In the latter part of the decade Thai boxers returned to dominance with Thammanoon Niyomtrong and Chayaphon Moonsri winning titles and staying undefeated.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\nKeys:\n\nSince 1968, the Summer Olympic Games has featured the 48 kilogram division under the name light flyweight .\n\n\n\n\nIn Kickboxing, the International Kickboxing Federation (IKF) Strawweight division (professional and amateur) is below 108.1 lbs. or 49.09 kg.\n\nIn MMA, strawweight is considered 115lbs (52kg) and below and is typically contested by women. It is never referred to as \"minimumweight\" in MMA.\n\nOther sports to include a minimumweight division include the following,\n\n"}
{"id": "1830131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830131", "title": "Eidsborg Stave Church", "text": "Eidsborg Stave Church\n\nEidsborg Stave Church () is a stave church in Tokke, Vestfold og Telemark county, Norway.\n\nEidsborg Stave Church is one of the best preserved Norwegian stave churches. Eidsborg Stave Church is located next to the Vest-Telemark Museum in Eidsborg. \n\nThe church is estimated to date to between 1250–1300. The church is dedicated to the traveller's patron, St. Nicholas of Bari. It was partly reconstructed in the 19th century. The chorus was demolished in 1826. The new choir dates to the period 1845–50. The reconstruction work did not affect the structure or the shape of the church. It was restored in 1927 when painted figures and ornaments dating from the Renaissance and old murals from the 17th century were revealed. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1830140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830140", "title": "Battle of Patay", "text": "Battle of Patay\n\nThe Battle of Patay (18 June 1429) was the culminating engagement of the Loire Campaign of the Hundred Years' War between the French and English in north-central France. It was a decisive victory for the French and with heavy losses inflicted on the corps of veteran English longbowmen. This victory was to the French what Agincourt was to the English. Although credited to Joan of Arc, most of the fighting was done by the vanguard of the French army as English units fled, and the main portions of the French army (including Joan herself) were unable to catch up to the vanguard as it continued to pursue the English for several miles.\n\nAfter the English abandoned the Siege of Orléans on 8 May 1429, the survivors of the besieging forces withdrew to nearby garrisons along the Loire. A month later, having gathered men and supplies for the forthcoming campaign, the French army, under the command of the Duke of Alençon, set out to capture these positions and the bridges they controlled. On June 12th they took Jargeau by storm, then captured the bridge at Meung-sur-Loire and marched on, without attacking the nearby castle, to lay siege to Beaugency on June 15th.\n\nAn English reinforcement army under Sir John Fastolf, which had set off from Paris following the defeat at Orléans, now joined forces with survivors of the besieging army under Lord Talbot and Lord Scales at Meung-sur-Loire. Talbot urged an immediate attack to relieve Beaugency, but was opposed by the more cautious Fastolf, who was reluctant to seek a pitched battle against the more numerous French. The garrison of Beaugency, unaware of the arrival of Fastolf's reinforcements and discouraged by the reinforcement of the French by a Breton contingent under Arthur de Richemont, surrendered on 18 June. Talbot then agreed to Fastolf's proposal to retreat towards Paris. Learning of this movement, the French set off in pursuit, and intercepted the English army near the village of Patay.\n\nIn this battle, the English employed the same methods used in the victories at Crécy in 1346 and Agincourt in 1415, deploying an army composed predominantly of longbowmen behind a barrier of sharpened stakes driven into the ground to obstruct any attack by cavalry.\n\nBecoming aware of the French approach, Talbot sent a force of archers to ambush them from a patch of woods along the road. Apparently dissatisfied, Talbot attempted to redeploy his men, setting up 500 longbowmen in a hidden location which would block the main road. However, they were faced with a sudden cavalry assault by 180 knights of the french vanguard under La Hire and Jean Poton de Xaintrailles before they had a chance to prepare their position and were swiftly overwhelmed, leading to the exposure of the other English units which were spread out along the road. The English archers had inadvertently disclosed the position of the english army to French scouts when a lone stag wandered onto a nearby field and the archers raised a hunting cry. The french knights were soon joined by the rest of the vanguard of about 1,300 mounted men-at-arms. Fastolf's unit attempted to join up with the English vanguard but the latter fled, forcing Fastolf to follow suit. The rest of the battle was a prolonged heavy cavalry mopping-up operation against the fleeing English units, with little organized resistance.\n\nDuring the course of the battle, the English lost between 2,000 and 2,500 men out of a force of about 5,000, many of them longbowmen. By contrast the French lost only about one hundred men. Fastolf, the only English commander who remained on horseback, managed to escape. Talbot, Scales and Sir Thomas Rempston were captured. Talbot later accused Fastolf of deserting his comrades in the face of the enemy, a charge which he pursued vigorously once he had negotiated his release from captivity. Fastolf hotly denied the charge and was eventually cleared of the charge by a special chapter of the Order of the Garter.\n\nThe virtual destruction of the English field army in central France and the loss of many of their principal veteran commanders (another, the Earl of Suffolk, had been captured in the fall of Jargeau, while the Earl of Salisbury had been killed at the siege of Orléans in November 1428), had devastating consequences for the English position in France, from which it would never recover. During the following weeks the French, facing negligible resistance, were able to swiftly regain swathes of territory to the south, east and north of Paris, and to march to Reims, where the Dauphin was crowned as King Charles VII of France on 17 July.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830142", "title": "Bijection, injection and surjection", "text": "Bijection, injection and surjection\n\nIn mathematics, injections, surjections and bijections are classes of functions distinguished by the manner in which \"arguments\" (input expressions from the domain) and \"images\" (output expressions from the codomain) are related or \"mapped to\" each other.\n\nA function maps elements from its domain to elements in its codomain. Given a function formula_1:\n\n\nAn injective function need not be surjective (not all elements of the codomain may be associated with arguments), and a surjective function need not be injective (some images may be associated with \"more than one\" argument). The four possible combinations of injective and surjective features are illustrated in the adjacent diagrams.\n\nA function is injective (one-to-one) if each possible element of the codomain is mapped to by at most one argument. Equivalently, a function is injective if it maps distinct arguments to distinct images. An injective function is an injection. The formal definition is the following.\n\nThe following are some facts related to injections:\n\n\nA function is surjective (onto) if each possible image is mapped to by at least one argument. In other words, each element in the codomain has non-empty preimage. Equivalently, a function is surjective if its image is equal to its codomain. A surjective function is a surjection. The formal definition is the following.\n\nThe following are some facts related to surjections:\n\n\nA function is bijective if it is both injective and surjective. A bijective function is a bijection (one-to-one correspondence). A function is bijective if and only if every possible image is mapped to by exactly one argument. This equivalent condition is formally expressed as follow.\n\nThe following are some facts related to bijections:\n\n\nSuppose that one wants to define what it means for two sets to \"have the same number of elements\". One way to do this is to say that two sets \"have the same number of elements\", if and only if all the elements of one set can be paired with the elements of the other, in such a way that each element is paired with exactly one element. Accordingly, one can define two sets to \"have the same number of elements\"—if there is a bijection between them. In which case, the two sets are said to have the same cardinality.\n\nLikewise, one can say that set formula_19 \"has fewer than or the same number of elements\" as set formula_20, if there is an injection from formula_19 to formula_20; one can also say that set formula_19 \"has fewer than the number of elements\" in set formula_20, if there is an injection from formula_19 to formula_20, but not a bijection between formula_19 and formula_20.\n\nIt is important to specify the domain and codomain of each function, since by changing these, functions which appear to be the same may have different properties. \n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the category of sets, injections, surjections, and bijections correspond precisely to monomorphisms, epimorphisms, and isomorphisms, respectively.\n\nThe injective-surjective-bijective terminology (both as nouns and adjectives) was originally coined by the French Bourbaki group, before their widespread adoption.\n\n\n"}
