{"id": "1995617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995617", "title": "Susan Mayer", "text": "Susan Mayer\n\nSusan Mayer is a fictional character played by Teri Hatcher on the ABC television series \"Desperate Housewives\". The character was created by television producer and screenwriter Marc Cherry. She first appeared in the pilot episode of the series on October 3, 2004, and appeared in every episode until the series finale on May 13, 2012. Susan resides on the fictional Wisteria Lane in Fairview, Eagle State, the primary setting of the show. One of four lead characters, Susan is characterized as being a \"notoriously clumsy\" romantic with a \"magnetic charm.\" Her storylines tend to focus on her romantic relationships, most notably with Mike Delfino (James Denton), whom she marries twice in the series.\n\nCherry originally created Susan as a girl next door archetype and intended for the character to provide an emotional anchor for the series. When developing the character, Cherry drew upon his personal experiences as well as those of single women in his life. The role was originally written for Mary-Louise Parker, who turned it down; as a result, Hatcher was cast in early 2004. Hatcher's portrayal of the character is both comedic and vulnerable. During the series' debut season, both the character and Hatcher's performance received positive critical reception; however, as the series progressed, the character was received less favorably by critics and fans. Hatcher has received both a Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for her performance in the series.\n\nWhile developing the series, \"Desperate Housewives\" creator Marc Cherry envisioned Susan as a girl next door and chose her to convey this image. In the original pilot, the character's surname was spelled \"Meyer\" but had to be changed to \"Mayer\" for clearance purposes. Cherry commented, \"I knew Susan was going to be my anchor character, and I didn't really know my take on her at first. And then it occurred to me that one of these women should be divorced ... I thought there was something so real about a woman saying, 'I don't have much time left,' and when this available hunky guy moves onto the street, something in her saying 'Let me at him'\". The character is a compendium of single mothers in Cherry's life \"desperate to land a man\". He also drew upon his own personal experiences while creating the character.\n\nJulia Louis-Dreyfus expressed interest in the role, but ABC executives felt she was not right for the part. Actors originally considered for the role include Courteney Cox, Calista Flockhart, Heather Locklear, Mary-Louise Parker, and Sela Ward. Cherry wrote the part with Parker in mind, but she rejected the offer, later explaining \"it just didn’t feel like I was gonna serve it as well as someone else might\". Teri Hatcher auditioned for the role in January 2004 and impressed Cherry immediately. After a second audition, Hatcher read for the role in front of network executives. Cherry praised her performance, saying \"it was the best audition I've ever seen in network\". Hatcher later commented, \"I don't think they were hot to hire me for Susan ... I was maybe on a B-list, certainly not an A-list\". Despite her reservations, Hatcher was the third reported cast member to have been cast in the series on February 18, 2004.\n\nSusan is primarily characterized as the girl next door. Teri Hatcher stated \"I’m not exactly her, but I get her. I get her insecurities, her flaws.\" She called the character \"a great representation of what [everyone] deals with daily. Our responsibilities can be overwhelming and things often don't go as you planned, so you have to roll with it. Susan celebrates rolling with it\". She is a hopeless romantic and often expresses her more openly and vulnerably than the other characters in the series. The series begins a year after Susan's first divorce, when she is still emotionally raw. Throughout the series, several other characters have confronted Susan about her inability to live happily and without drama. Susan has a close relationship with her daughter, Julie (Andrea Bowen), who often acts as the parent figure in the relationship.\n\nSusan's accident-proneness is commonly used throughout the series to provide comic relief. Her susceptibility to bad luck and embarrassing situations have created some of the series' most memorable moments, including accidentally burning down Edie's house and being locked out of her own house completely naked. Susan's poor cooking skills have also become a running gag in the series.\n\nSusan Bremmer was born in year 1967 and was raised by single mother Sophie Bremmer (Lesley Ann Warren), who told her that her father was a United States Merchant Marine who had died in the Battle of Hanoi during the Vietnam War. She was a cheerleader in high school and graduated as valedictorian of her class. She graduated from community college with an art degree. Eventually, Susan began writing and illustrating children's books, the first of which was \"Ants in My Picnic Basket\".\n\nIn 1989 Susan married Karl Mayer (Richard Burgi) after two months of dating, and in 1990 gave birth to their daughter, Julie. In 1992, the family moved to Wisteria Lane in Fairview, Eagle State, where Susan quickly befriends Mary Alice Young (Brenda Strong), her new neighbor. Susan became close friends with Katherine Davis (Dana Delany), Bree Van de Kamp (Marcia Cross) in 1994, however Katherine had to move out one year later. Still, she gained friends in Lynette Scavo (Felicity Huffman) in 1998, and Gabrielle Solis (Eva Longoria) in 2003 when they move to Wisteria Lane. In 2003, Karl had an affair with his secretary, Brandi (Anne Dudek), and ended up falling for her, leaving Susan and abandoning Julie. The two divorced and agreed to share custody of Julie, although the Court decided that Julie would be living with her mother.\n\nA year had passed since the divorce. Susan had started to think how nice it would be to have a man in her life, even one who would make fun of her cooking. Susan takes an interest in Mike Delfino (James Denton), a plumber she meets at Mary Alice’s wake, who tells her he has recently moved in the neighborhood, renting the Simms’s house. Susan soon begins dating Mike, despite competing with Edie Britt (Nicollette Sheridan) for his affection. Meanwhile, Susan begins investigating Mary Alice's suicide after she and her friends discover a blackmail letter while putting away her belongings, one week after her funeral. Later, Susan discovers that Mary Alice's husband, Paul (Mark Moses), had their son, Zach (Cody Kasch), committed to a youth mental institution after he broke into the Van de Kamp’s house and decorated it for Christmas, Julie begins corresponding with Zach without Susan's knowledge and hides him in her room when he escapes from the institution. When Susan finds Zach in her home, she and Mike return him to Paul; however, Julie and Zach begin dating. Paul fabricates unconvincing lies to thwart Susan's efforts to discover his family's secrets too.\n\nAs her relationship with Mike progresses, Susan becomes suspicious of his past, especially when she finds a gun and large sums of money in his kitchen cabinet. Additionally, evidence connecting Mike to the recent murder of a Wisteria Lane resident, Martha Huber (Christine Estabrook), surfaces. Susan ends the relationship when police inform her that Mike was convicted of manslaughter and drug trafficking. However, Susan learns the murder was accidental and the two renew their relationship and agree that Mike will move into Susan's house. While Mike is away on business, Susan finds Zach, armed with a handgun, in Mike's house. He vows to kill Mike when he comes home as he believes Mike killed Paul.\n\nWhen Mike arrives home, Zach's murder scheme backfires and he runs away. Mike informs Susan that he recently learned that Zach is his biological son. Susan agrees to help Mike search for Zach and finds him in a nearby park. When Zach expresses hope of rekindling his romance with Julie, she gives him money to look for Paul in Utah. When Mike finds out about her betrayal, he ends their relationship. Susan decides to write an autobiography following the break-up. While researching her father, she learns that her mother lied and her father is local business owner Addison Prudy (Paul Dooley). She tries to establish a relationship with her reluctant father, but her attempts are effectively unsuccessful.\n\nMeanwhile, Susan is dismayed to learn that Karl has moved in with Edie. She begins dating her doctor, Ron McCready (Jay Harrington), who informs her that she has a wandering spleen and will need a splenectomy. When Susan learns that her health insurance will not cover the operation, Karl offers to remarry her for his medical benefits. They agree to keep their sham marriage a secret from Edie and Ron. While under anesthesia before her operation, Susan professes her love for Mike to Ron, which prompts Ron to break up with her. Soon after, Karl leaves Edie, as his love for Susan has resurfaced. Upon learning that Susan is the other woman, Edie intentionally sets Susan's house on fire. In this time of need, both Mike and Karl vie for Susan's affections. She chooses to rekindle her relationship with Mike and Karl signs the divorce papers. Susan and Mike then make plans to meet for dinner at nearby Torch Lake, where Mike plans to propose. On his way to dinner, Mike is a victim of a hit-and-run at the hands of Orson Hodge (Kyle MacLachlan), a dentist whom Susan had recently befriended.\n\nAs a result of the hit-and-run, Mike falls into a coma. Having waited six months for Mike to wake up, she reluctantly enters a relationship with Ian Hainsworth (Dougray Scott), a British man whose wife, Jane (Cecily Gambrell), has been in a coma for years. When Mike finally awakens, doctors conclude that he now suffers from retrograde amnesia. While Susan is out of town, Edie convinces Mike that Susan was horrible to him during their relationship. Mike turns Susan away when she returns to Fairview. Having lost hope, Susan continues her romance with Ian. Meanwhile, Susan is suspicious of Orson, who has married Bree and is accused of killing his missing ex-wife, Alma (Valerie Mahaffey). When Mike is arrested for the murder of Monique Polier (Kathleen York), Orson's former mistress, Edie breaks up with him, leaving him without bail. Susan defends Mike, which frustrates Ian. He promises to pay for Mike's bail if Susan breaks off all contact with him. Mike is eventually acquitted for the crime. Following Jane's death, Susan accepts Ian's marriage proposal.\n\nAs he slowly regains his memory, Mike recalls his feelings for Susan and challenges Ian for her affections. When Susan learns that the two had made a bet on her in a game of poker, she calls off the wedding and declares that she does not want to see either of them again. Realizing that letting both of them go is a mistake, Susan decides to take Ian back. However, he tells her that he cannot spend the rest of his life wondering if she is still in love with Mike, and he leaves. Susan and Mike reunite and become engaged. The couple get married in a private ceremony in the woods, with Julie as their only guest.\n\nIn the fourth season premiere, one month after her wedding, Susan learns that she is pregnant. While looking into their medical histories for the baby's interest, Mike is forced to tell Susan that he lied about his father being dead. Susan visits Mike's father, Nick (Robert Forster), who is in jail for murder. Nick warns Susan that Mike is still troubled by demons of his past. With the stress of finances for the baby, Mike begins working overtime, despite an injury resulting from the hit-and-run over a year ago. He begins relying heavily on painkillers. Susan confronts Mike about his addiction, threatening to leave him if he does not enter rehab; he agrees to admit himself. After a devastating tornado hits Wisteria Lane, Bree, Orson, and their newborn, Benjamin, move into Susan's house temporarily. During his stay, Orson develops a sleep walking habit and unconsciously admits to running over Mike with his car. Susan feels extremely betrayed and Bree, unable to forgive Orson, asks him to move out. Shortly after, Susan gives birth to a boy, whom she names Maynard, after Mike's deceased grandfather.\n\nIn the five years that take place between seasons four and five, Susan and Mike are involved in a car crash that kills a mother and her daughter. Although Susan was driving, Mike takes the blame, as Susan did not have her license with her at the time. Susan feels incredibly guilty for taking the lives of Lila (Marie Caldare) and Paige Dash (Madeleine Michelle Dunn), but Mike insists it was not their fault. The argument over the topic becomes so great that it results in divorce. Giving up on love, Susan engages in a casual relationship with her house painter, Jackson Braddock (Gale Harold).\n\nWhile Susan manages to keep her relationship with Jackson a secret from her friends and her son, nicknamed M.J., Jackson seeks a deeper connection with her. Soon enough, Mike and M.J. learn about the relationship. Jackson makes the sudden announcement that he is moving to nearby Riverton for work and asks Susan to come with him. After much consideration, Susan decides that she is unsure of what she wants and turns down Jackson's offer. Also, Mike moves across the street from Susan and begins dating her close friend and neighbor, Katherine Mayfair (Dana Delany). Realizing she cannot keep Mike from being happy, she gives the couple her blessing, despite still feeling uncomfortable. Susan and Mike decide to enroll M.J. in private school, and Susan takes a job as an assistant art teacher at the school to help pay for the tuition. With both Susan and Mike employed, M.J. spends more time under Katherine's care, which makes Susan uneasy. She is heartbroken to learn that Mike and Katherine have decided to move in with one another and become engaged.\n\nSusan attempts to console Edie's husband, Dave Williams (Neal McDonough), following Edie's death. She explains the truth behind her own accident, completely unaware that Lila and Paige Dash were Dave's wife and daughter, respectively, and that he had been seeking revenge on Mike since moving to Wisteria Lane. Meanwhile, Jackson returns to Fairview and proposes to Susan, revealing that his visa has expired and he needs to marry an American citizen. When Susan learns that Mike, who is engaged to Katherine, will no longer have to pay alimony once she is married, she explains the false pretenses of her engagement. Dave, who now understands that Susan was driving the car that killed his family, overhears this and reports Jackson to immigration officials. With Jackson out of the picture, Dave invites Susan and M.J. on a fishing trip, planning to kill M.J. just like Susan killed his own child. Mike discovers Dave's plans and is able to save Susan and M.J. After the ordeal, Susan and Mike share a brief, yet romantic kiss. Dave is sent to a psychiatric hospital in Boston and two months later, Mike marries an unidentified bride.\n\nSusan is identified as Mike's bride in the sixth season premiere. Her marriage to Mike destroys her friendship with Katherine. After the wedding, Julie is strangled outside of Susan's home. Julie slips into a coma following her attack. While waiting for her to awaken, Susan learns that Julie had dropped out of medical school, was involved with a married man, and had a pregnancy scare before her attack. When Julie awakens, she refuses to identify the married man she was seeing. Later in the season, Julie's attacker is revealed to be Eddie Orlofsky (Josh Zuckerman), a local young adult who is also responsible for a handful of murders in Fairview. Prior to the attack, Susan had taken Eddie on as an art student and he developed a crush on her. When he discovered that she was remarrying Mike and that she did not see him as a romantic suitor, he attacked Julie, mistaking her for Susan.\n\nKatherine continues to pursue Mike, believing that he is still in love with her. Mike warns her to leave his family alone and claims he never truly loved her. After he leaves, Katherine calls 9-1-1 asking for an ambulance, and then stabs herself with a knife with Mike's fingerprints on it. Katherine frames Mike for her wound. Susan, realizing that Katherine has suffered a total nervous breakdown, calls Katherine's daughter, Dylan (Lyndsy Fonseca), who comes to town and has her mother committed for psychiatric observation. Susan later forgives Katherine once she recovers from her breakdown. Soon after, Mike reveals that he has accumulated an immense debt in the past year. Unable to balance their debt, Susan and Mike decide to move off Wisteria Lane and rent their house out temporarily. They move into an apartment across town while Paul Young rents their house on Wisteria Lane.\n\nSusan accepts an offer from her landlady, Maxine Rosen (Lainie Kazan), to appear on a website in which she does housework in her lingerie in order to make ends meet, though she keeps her new job a secret from her friends and family. Soon after, Maxine's site is merged with a larger company that uses Susan's image to advertise the website on billboards across the country. Susan pays the company $9,000 to have the billboards removed. As a result, she begins working for the website's video chatting services to earn back the money. Paul discovers her secret and threatens to expose it unless she sells him her home, in which he now lives with his second wife, Beth (Emily Bergl). Hoping to derail Paul's blackmail scheme, Susan tells Mike about her job on the website. Paul retaliates by spreading the word about Susan's involvement with the website, causing her to lose her teaching job. Strapped for money, Mike accepts a job on an oil rig in Alaska and Susan becomes Lynette's nanny.\n\nAfter purchasing a majority of the houses on Wisteria Lane, Paul announces that he plans to open a halfway house for ex-convicts on the street. A protest against his plan escalates into a violent riot and Susan is trampled by the unruly crowd. As a result, Susan loses a kidney and learns that her second kidney is deformed and she is at severe risk of renal failure. Susan reluctantly agrees to undergo dialysis while waiting for a transplant. After Paul throws her out, Beth submits paperwork indicating that in the event of her death, her kidney would be given to Susan, and then commits suicide. Despite initial refusal, Paul allows the operation to move forward and he and Susan reconcile. After discovering that Paul has been depressed following Beth's suicide, Susan begins cooking meals for him with the assistance of Felicia Tilman (Harriet Sansom Harris), Beth's mother and Martha Huber's sister, who secretly adds antifreeze to the food in an effort to kill him. Paul nearly dies as a result of the poisoned food. Unaware that Felicia is helping prepare his meals, Paul has Susan arrested for attempting to kill him. Eventually, Susan is released, Paul confesses to the murder of Martha Huber, and Felicia presumably dies in a car crash while fleeing town. Susan and her family move back onto Wisteria Lane. During a dinner party, Gabrielle's former stepfather, Alejandro (Tony Plana), who raped her during her childhood, attempts to harm Gabrielle until her husband, Carlos Solis (Ricardo Antonio Chavira) kills him. Susan, Lynette, and Bree agree to help cover up the crime.\n\nSusan begins to withdraw from her friends and family out of guilt for having helped cover up Alejandro's death. She bonds with Carlos over their mutual guilt. When Mike begins suspecting Susan and Carlos are having an affair, they agree to tell him the truth about the cover-up. Soon after, Susan begins taking an art class with renowned painter, Andre Zeller (Miguel Ferrer), and discovers that her guilt has given her a renewed artistic ability. In a series of paintings, Susan depicts the scene of Alejandro's death and subsequent burial, arousing the suspicion of Detective Chuck Vance (Jonathan Cake), Bree's embittered ex-boyfriend assigned to investigate Alejandro's disappearance. She briefly considers moving to New York to explore new career opportunities, but ultimately decides against it. In an effort to ease her guilt, Susan visits Alejandro's wife and stepdaughter, Claudia (Justina Machado) and Marisa (Daniela Bobadilla), respectively, and write them a check to help their financial misfortune, which only arouses Claudia's suspicions. Claudia confronts Susan and Gabrielle about Alejandro's disappearance, but agrees to stop prying after learning that he had been sexually abusing Marisa.\n\nIn \"Is This What You Call Love?\", Susan learns that Julie is six months pregnant and has no relationship with the baby's father. To her dismay, Julie plans to put the child up for adoption. When Susan discovers that Lynette's son, Porter (Max Carver), is the father, she supports his decision to raise the child himself. In \"You Take for Granted\", Mike is murdered by a vengeful loan shark. The final episodes of the series deal with Susan grieving and eventually moving on from Mike's death. In the series finale, Julie gives birth to a daughter, whom she now plans on keeping. Susan sells her home on Wisteria Lane and she and M.J. move to help Julie raise the baby.\n\nIn the first season of \"Desperate Housewives\", the character of Susan was a critics' favorite and generally regarded as the series' most prominent role. Hatcher's portrayal as Susan received praise in the series' first year. Tim Goodman of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called Hatcher's performance in the pilot episode \"a huge surprise,\" commenting that she gives \"self-effacing, disheveled and sadly hopeless Susan a spirit that makes you root for her\". Robert Bianco of \"USA Today\" declared that Hatcher delivered \"a revelatory performance\". Heather Havrilesky of Salon.com was less enthusiastic, criticizing Hatcher for overacting. In the series' second season, Susan becomes less important as Bree \"comfortably moves into position as the show's lead\". Many critics noted that the character suffered as a result of the declining quality of the second season. Bianco wrote that the writers were making Susan \"too stupid\". Hatcher continued to provide comic relief in the third season.\n\nBy season four, critics thought that Susan's storylines were the least interesting and that she had not \"operated at full potential since [her] pivotal role in the debut season\". Bianco was more forgiving, stating that while \"Susan's silliness sometimes spirals out of control, Teri Hatcher usually manages to keep her likable\". As a result of the five-year time jump between seasons four and five, a new direction was taken with Susan's character. \"The Stat-Legend\"'s Alan Sepinwall calls Susan's character arc in season five the \"least annoying storyline she's had in at least three years\". However, Tanner Stransky of \"Entertainment Weekly\" still felt the character was \"ever-annoying\". In the series' sixth season, Stransky stated that Susan was still \"whiny\" and he would have rather seen Mike marry Katherine, though he was not surprised when the mystery bride was revealed to be Susan. \"Entertainment Weekly\" named her one of the \"21 Most Annoying TV Characters Ever\".\n\nHatcher won the Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Comedy Series in 2005, beating out fellow cast members Marcia Cross and Felicity Huffman. Also that year, Hatcher received the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Actress in a Comedy Series. In 2005, Hatcher, along with Cross and Huffman, received a nomination for a Satellite Award in the Best Television Actress in a Musical or Comedy Series. She was also nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series, but was beaten out by Huffman. In 2006, Hatcher was once again nominated for the Golden Globe Award in the same category, along with Cross, Huffman, and Eva Longoria. All four \"Desperate Housewives\" stars lost to Mary-Louise Parker. Hatcher was also nominated for a Teen Choice Award for Choice TV Actress and a People's Choice Award for Favorite Female TV Star.\n\nABC and the \"Desperate Housewives\" producers faced criticism following the September 30, 2007 fourth season premiere in which the character of Susan made a controversial remark about Filipino doctors. When her gynecologist suggests that she may be entering menopause, Susan responds \"OK, before we go any further, can I check these diplomas? Just to make sure they aren't, like, from some med school in the Philippines?\" Following its broadcast, viewers demanded an apology from the network. ABC issued an apology on October 3, but the controversy grew to an international concern and Health Secretary Francisco Duque III of Manila publicly sought an apology from the series' producers. Protests against the network and series were staged, prompting ABC to remove the episode from digital and online platforms in order to apply edits. As a result, the line of controversy was removed from all future broadcasts of the episode, as well as from DVD productions. However, protests continued even after this action was taken. The scene with the line in question is still viewable on YouTube.\n\nNicole Parker portrayed Susan in a \"Desperate Housewives\" parody on an episode of \"MADtv\". Susan's klutziness is mocked in the skit. Colette Whitaker voices Susan in the , which was released in October 2006. In 2007, Madame Alexander released a line of 16-inch fashion dolls of the series' main characters, including Susan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995621", "title": "The Iceman Confesses", "text": "The Iceman Confesses\n\nThe Iceman Tapes: Conversations with a Killer and The Iceman Confesses: Secrets of a Mafia Hitman (also known as The Iceman: Confessions of a Mafia Hitman) are two documentaries that feature the Mafia hitman Richard Kuklinski. They were produced by HBO and released in 1992 and 2001, respectively.\n\nAfter years of silence, \"The Iceman\" speaks. In two interviews a decade apart, Richard Kuklinski, a notorious top enforcer for the Gambino crime family, tells his unusual and gruesome story. Raised on—and immune to—violence, he kept his unorthodox job and tactics a secret from his adoring family. In 1986, after a long investigation, Kuklinski was betrayed by \"the only friend I didn't kill\" and when interviewed was serving multiple life sentences.\n"}
{"id": "1995622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995622", "title": "Friedrich Anton Wilhelm Miquel", "text": "Friedrich Anton Wilhelm Miquel\n\nFriedrich Anton Wilhelm Miquel (24 October 1811 in Neuenhaus – 23 January 1871 in Utrecht) was a Dutch botanist, whose main focus of study was on the flora of the Dutch East Indies.\n\nMiquel studied medicine at the University of Groningen, where, in 1833, he received his doctorate. After starting work as a doctor at the Buitengasthuis Hospital in Amsterdam, in 1835, he taught medicine at the clinical school in Rotterdam. In 1838 he became correspondent of the Royal Institute, which later became the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in 1846 he became member. He was professor of botany at the University of Amsterdam (1846–1859) and Utrecht University (1859–1871). He directed the Rijksherbarium (National Herbarium) at Leiden from 1862. In 1866, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nMiquel did research on the taxonomy of plants. He was interested in the flora of the Dutch Empire, specifically the Dutch East Indies and Suriname. Although he never traveled far, he knew through correspondence a large collection of Australian and Indian plants. He described many species and genera in important families like Casuarinaceae, Myrtaceae, Piperaceae and Polygonaceae. In total, he has published some 7,000 botanical names. Through his partnership with the German botanist Heinrich Göppert, he became interested in paleobotany, the study of fossil plants, notably the fossil Cycads. Along with Jacob Gijsbertus Samuël van Breda, Pieter Harting and Winand Staring, he was in the first commission to create a geological map of the Netherlands, which was published in 1852 by Johan Rudolph Thorbecke.\n\nMiquel died at the age of 59 in 1871, after which he was succeeded as the director of the National Herbarium by Willem Frederik Reinier Suringar. From his estate, the Miquel fund was established, which provides financial support to botanists at the University of Utrecht. The former home of the director of the botanical gardens in the city center of Utrecht is called \"Miquel's House\". In the Laakkwartier district of the Hague is a street named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995623", "title": "Julie Mayer", "text": "Julie Mayer\n\nJulie Mayer may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995624", "title": "Pohlig–Hellman algorithm", "text": "Pohlig–Hellman algorithm\n\nIn group theory, the Pohlig–Hellman algorithm, sometimes credited as the Silver–Pohlig–Hellman algorithm, is a special-purpose algorithm for computing discrete logarithms in a finite abelian group whose order is a smooth integer.\n\nThe algorithm was discovered by Roland Silver, but first published by Stephen Pohlig and Martin Hellman (independent of Silver).\n\nAs an important special case, which is used as a subroutine in the general algorithm (see below), the Pohlig–Hellman algorithm applies to groups whose order is a prime power. The basic idea of this algorithm is to iteratively compute the formula_1-adic digits of the logarithm by repeatedly \"shifting out\" all but one unknown digit in the exponent, and computing that digit by elementary methods.\n\nAssuming formula_23 is much smaller than formula_1, the algorithm computes discrete logarithms in time complexity formula_25, far better than the baby-step giant-step algorithm's formula_26.\n\nIn this section, we present the general case of the Pohlig–Hellman algorithm. The core ingredients are the algorithm from the previous section (to compute a logarithm modulo each prime power in the group order) and the Chinese remainder theorem (to combine these to a logarithm in the full group).\n\nThe correctness of this algorithm can be verified via the classification of finite abelian groups: Raising formula_4 and formula_46 to the power of formula_47 can be understood as the projection to the factor group of order formula_36.\n\nThe worst-case input for the Pohlig–Hellman algorithm is a group of prime order: In that case, it degrades to the baby-step giant-step algorithm, hence the worst-case time complexity is formula_49. However, it is much more efficient if the order is smooth: Specifically, if formula_50 is the prime factorization of formula_28, then the algorithm's complexity is formula_52 group operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995630", "title": "Food Race", "text": "Food Race\n\nAmerican environmental author Daniel Quinn coined the term Food Race (by analogy to the Cold War's \"nuclear arms race\") to describe an understanding of the current overpopulation emergency as a perpetually escalating crisis between growing human population and growing food production, fueled by the latter. Quinn argues that as the worldwide human population increases, the typical international response is to more intensely produce and distribute food to feed these greater numbers of people. However, assuming that population increases according to increased food availability, Quinn argues that this response only ends up leading to an even larger population and thus greater starvation in the end. Therefore, Quinn's clear solution to the Food Race—to stop producing so much food—is not generally a common-sense or intuitive response; instead, it derives from seemingly counter-intuitive or \"outside-the-box\" thinking. \nQuinn bases the Food Race on the premise that the total human population, like that of all other animals, is influenced by food supply. Thus, larger populations are the result of more abundant food supplies, and intensification of food cultivation in response to population growth merely leads to still more population growth. Quinn compared this to the arms race in the Cold War, noting that any increase in food supply is met with a corresponding increase in population. Like Garrett Hardin, then, Quinn sees the only possible conclusions to the Food Race as either abandonment (of such a \"race\") or catastrophe.\n\nThe superficial similarities between this concept and a Malthusian catastrophe are obvious, but Quinn himself notes certain key differences. The primary problem in a Malthusian catastrophe is a population growing larger than its food supply can support; in Quinn's view, this is impossible, as population \"is a function of\" food supply, and not merely some independent variable. The problem for Quinn is not the chaos caused by a scarcity of food during a time of overpopulation, but, rather, the chaos of overpopulation itself. So, in some ways, Quinn's \"Food Race\" is in fact the opposite of the Malthusian problem, which Quinn characterizes as \"How are we going to FEED all these people?\" in contrast to the Quinnian problem: \"How are we going to stop PRODUCING all these people?\"\n\nThe idea that human population is tied to food supply is contentious, however. Many biologists disagree with Quinn's assessment. While food supply certainly imposes an upper limit on population growth, they point out that culture, living standards, human intelligence, and free will can impose lower, secondary limits to population growth. Critics also point out that the most significant population growth is occurring in the Third World, where regional food production is lowest. Meanwhile, the First World, where food is most plentiful, is undergoing a decline in birth rates. Quinn has suggested this results from international food distribution and has claimed that the farms of the First World fuel population growth in the Third. United Nations projections that world population will level off sometime in the near future also contradict Quinn's statements. In November 1998, Daniel Quinn made a video exploring these topics with Dr. Alan Thornhill of the Society for Conservation Biology, entitled, \"Food Production And Population Growth\". Russell Hopfenberg has written at least two papers attempting to prove Quinn's ideas, one paper with David Pimentel entitled \"Human Population Numbers as a Function of Food Supply\" and another, \"Human Carrying Capacity is Determined by Food Availability\". Hopfenberg has also made available a narrated slide show entitled \"World Food and Human Population Growth\". Jason Godesky wrote an article in 2005, entitled \"The Opposite of Malthus\", which attempts to ground Quinn's work in a more solid, scientific framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995632", "title": "Steamer Maxwell", "text": "Steamer Maxwell\n\nFrederick George \"Steamer\" Maxwell (May 19, 1890 – September 11, 1975) was a Canadian amateur ice hockey player. He played rover in the days of seven-man hockey at the turn of the 20th century, spending six seasons with the Winnipeg Monarchs of the Manitoba Hockey League (MHL) between 1909 and 1915. Considered one of the top players of his era, he won two Manitoba provincial championships with the Monarchs and was a member of the team that won the 1915 Allan Cup as Canadian senior amateur champions. Maxwell spurned multiple offers to turn professional and ultimately quit playing hockey when he learned some of his peers at the senior amateur level were getting paid.\n\nA long-time coach at the senior level, Maxwell led the Winnipeg Falcons to an Allan Cup championship in 1920; the team went on to win an Olympic Gold medal as Canada's representative in the 1920 Olympic ice hockey tournament. He coached into the 1930s, leading several teams to senior and junior championships. Maxwell is an honoured member of the Manitoba Sports and Hockey Halls of Fame and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1962.\n\nQuick on his feet, Maxwell's skating ability at rover earned him the nickname \"Steamer\". He began his senior career in 1909–10, appearing in one game with the Winnipeg Monarchs of the Manitoba Hockey League (MHL). In 1910–11, he scored six goals for the Monarchs in five games and was named to the league's second All-Star team. He scored seven goals in seven games for the Monarchs in 1911–12, and by the following season had been named the team's captain.\n\nMaxwell scored three goals and two assists for the Monarchs in the 1913–14 season as the team won the city and provincial championships. By virtue of the title, the team was granted possession of the Allan Cup, emblematic of Canada's national senior-amateur championship. The team initially refused to defend the trophy against a challenge by the Kenora Thistles after the Cup's trustees ruled Dick Irvin ineligible. Facing the possibility of having to play with only six players against Kenora's seven, the Monarchs threatened to default. The game, held March 11, 1914, was ultimately played and Maxwell's speed and skating helped lead the Monarchs to a 6–2 victory. The team was unable to defend the trophy against a second challenge, played two nights later against the Regina Victorias. Maxwell scored a goal in a 5–4 defeat.\n\nThe Monarchs repeated as Manitoba provincial champions in 1914–15 as Maxwell again scored three goals and two assists during regular league play. The team reached the 1915 Allan Cup finals, where they challenged the Saskatchewan champion Melville Millionaires who held the Cup. Unlike the previous year's single-game contests, the 1915 final was played as a two-game, total-goals series. Melville defeated Winnipeg by a 4–3 score in the first game, but the Monarchs overcame a two-goal deficit in the second match to win 4–2 and win the series on an aggregate total of six to five. There were no further challenges, and Maxwell and the Monarchs ended the season as Allan Cup champions.\n\nThroughout his playing career, Maxwell received several offers to turn professional. the National Hockey Association's Toronto Blueshirts offered him $1,500 to join their team, while representatives of the Pacific Coast Hockey Association made an offer of $1,800 the following season. He turned both offers down, preferring to remain an amateur. His feelings on what constituted an amateur player were so strong that he quit playing hockey following the 1915 Allan Cup as the nature of the senior game at the time failed to meet his expectations: \"When I played, I bought my own skates and boots. When I found out some of the others were getting paid, I quit.\"\n\nMaxwell remained in the game, turning to coaching. He served two seasons as coach of the Winnipeg Monarchs before moving to the cross-town rival Winnipeg Falcons. He led the Falcons to the 1920 Allan Cup, defeating the University of Toronto Varsity Blues by scores of 8–3 and 3–2. The victory also earned his team the right to represent Canada at the first Olympic ice hockey tournament at the Summer Games in Antwerp. His business interests outside of hockey prevented Maxwell from travelling to Belgium with his team; however the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) lists him as the coach for the gold medal winning Canadians, who outscored their opponents 29–1 in three games played.\n\nMaxwell coached several Winnipeg teams throughout the 1920s and 1930s. He led the Winnipeg Rangers, Winnipeg Winnipegs and Elmwood Millionaires to Manitoba provincial senior championships in 1926, 1927 and 1930, respectively. He led the Millionaires' junior team to a provincial title that same season.\n\nMaxwell briefly coached in the professional ranks, with the Winnipeg Maroons of the American Hockey Association in 1927–28. The Toronto Maple Leafs attempted to sign him to coach their National Hockey League club in 1931, however team owner Conn Smythe chose to hire Dick Irvin instead after Maxwell insisted on a three-year contract. Instead, Maxwell returned to the Winnipeg Monarchs, where he led their junior team to the western Canadian championship in 1931–32. In the Memorial Cup final, Maxwell's squad lost to the eastern champion Sudbury Cub Wolves.\n\nCoaching the senior Monarchs, Maxwell led the team to the Manitoba Championship in 1933–34. Canadian Amateur Hockey Association invited the team to represent Canada at the 1935 World Championship. However, as with 1920, Maxwell was unable to travel to Europe with his team. The Monarchs went on to win the World Championship.\n\nIn addition to coaching, Maxwell was a long time referee. He frequently officiated matches in both Allan and Memorial Cup playoffs, as well as professional teams that traveled through Western Canada. He was recognized numerous times for his playing and coaching career. Maxwell is an honoured member of the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame, and was inducted into the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame in 1988. That honour followed his 1962 induction into the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nOutside of hockey, Maxwell owned a lumber business, F. G. Maxwell Co. Ltd, which he operated until his retirement in 1967. He was a partner with fellow Hall of Famer Charlie Gardiner until the latter's death in 1934. The company, which focused on plywood supply, was successful and ultimately made Maxwell a millionaire. Following his retirement, Maxwell turned to photography and world travel. He and his wife Ann resided in his hometown of Winnipeg. He had two sisters, Genevieve and Beatrice. Genevieve was herself a champion tennis player in Western Canada.\n\nAn avid baseball fan, Maxwell was among the founders of the Winnipeg Arena baseball club in 1908, and became the team's manager in 1912. At its peak, the team drew as many as 5,000 fans per game. As a player, manager or general manager, Maxwell was a member of eight Arena teams that won the Winnipeg city championship between 1908 and 1923. He was known for his quick, and often barbed, wit; His friends often told a story of an Arenas baseball game where, after failing to convince the umpire that it was too dark to play, Maxwell sent his players onto the field with lighted candles. In his later years, he served on the advisory board of the Winnipeg Goldeyes professional club.\n"}
{"id": "1995635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995635", "title": "Mary Lavin", "text": "Mary Lavin\n\nMary Josephine Lavin (10 June 1912 – 25 March 1996) wrote short stories and novels. An Irishwoman, she is now regarded as a pioneer in the field of women's writing. Well-known Irish writer, the Lord Dunsany, mentored Lavin after her father approached him on her behalf to discuss with him some stories she had written.\n\nHer subject matter often dealt explicitly with concerns of women, as well as a deep Catholic faith (she attended a convent school in Dublin). She is particularly noteworthy for her stories on the topic of widowhood, which are acknowledged to be among her finest. Her husband died in 1954, little over a decade into his marriage. She remarried in 1969. Her second husband, who before his marriage to Lavin had been living abroad, died in 1991 and she was once again a widow, remaining so until her death five years later.\n\nMary Lavin was born in East Walpole, Massachusetts, in 1912, the only child of Tom and Nora Lavin, an immigrant Irish couple. She attended primary school in East Walpole until the age of ten, when her mother decided to go back to Ireland. Initially, Mary and Nora lived with Nora's family in Athenry in County Galway. Afterwards, they bought a house in Dublin, and Mary's father, too, came back from America to join them.\n\nMary attended Loreto College, a convent school in Dublin, before going on to study English and French at University College Dublin (UCD). She taught French at Loreto College for a while. As a postgraduate student, she published her first short story, \"Miss Holland\", which appeared in the \"Dublin Magazine\" in 1938. Tom Lavin then approached Lord Dunsany, the well-known Irish writer, on behalf of his daughter and asked him to read some of Mary's unpublished work. Suitably impressed, Lord Dunsany became Mary's literary mentor.\n\nIn 1943, Mary published her first book; \"Tales from Bective Bridge\", a volume of ten short stories about life in rural Ireland, was a critical success and won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction. That same year, Lavin married William Walsh, a Dublin lawyer. Over the next decade, the couple had three daughters and moved to \"abbey farm\" which they purchased in County Meath, and which included the land around Bective Abbey. Lavin's literary career flourished; she published several novels and collections of short stories during this period. Her first novel \"The House in Clewe Street\" was serialised in \"The Atlantic\" monthly magazine before its publication in book form in 1945.\n\nIn 1954, William Walsh died. Lavin, her reputation as a major writer already well-established, was left to confront her responsibilities alone. She raised her three daughters and kept the family farm going at the same time. Her granddaughter is the novelist Kathleen MacMahon. She also managed to keep her literary career on track, continuing to publish short stories and winning several awards for her work, including the Katherine Mansfield Prize in 1961, Guggenheim Fellowships in 1959 and 1961, and an honorary doctorate from UCD in 1968. Some of her stories written during this period, dealing with the topic of widowhood, are acknowledged to be among her finest.\n\nLavin remarried in 1969. Michael Scott was an old friend from Mary's student days in University College. He had been a Jesuit priest in Australia, but had obtained release from his vows from Rome and returned to Ireland. The two remained together until Scott's death in 1991.\n\nIn 1992, the members of Aosdána elected Lavin - now retired - Saoi for achieving \"singular and sustained distinction\" in literature. Aosdána is an affiliation of creative artists in Ireland, and the title of Saoi one of the highest honours in Irish culture.\n\n9780571256198 (novel)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995637", "title": "Richard Russell (doctor)", "text": "Richard Russell (doctor)\n\nRichard Russell (26 November 1687 – 1759) was an 18th-century British physician who encouraged his patients to use a form of water therapy that involved the submersion or bathing in, and drinking of, seawater. The contemporary equivalent of this is thalassotherapy, although the practice of drinking seawater has largely discontinued.\n\nRichard Russell was the son of Nathaniel Russell, a surgeon of Lewes, in Sussex, who at one time owned Ranscomb Manor, in South Malling, near Lewes. He was the eldest of seven children, his siblings being: Mary (b. 1689), John (b. 1691), Nathaniell (b. 1694), Elizabeth (b. 1695/96), Hannah (b. 1699), and Charity (b. 1701).\n\nHe began his medical practice in Lewes in 1725. Records indicate that in 1742, Russell purchased a manor in Ditchling from Thomas Godfrey, John Legas, and Legas' wife Judith. \"Between 1758 and 1760 it passed to Dr Russell's son William Russell, who assumed his mother's surname of Kempe, and he held it until 1787\", after which it was owned by John Ingram, and thence Charles James Ingram.\n\nAround 1747, Russell went to Brighton to exploit his theories on the medical properties of seawater. In 1750, he published a Latin dissertation \"De Tabe Glandulari\", in which he recommended the use of seawater for the cure of enlarged lymphatic glands. This was translated into English in 1752 as \"Glandular Diseases, or a Dissertation on the Use of Sea Water in the Affections of the Glands\" by W. Owen in London, and in 1769 it reached a sixth edition. It was the first book to make a connection between drinking and bathing in seawater and improvements in health.\n\nDr Russell recommended especially that people try the water near Brighton, proclaiming that sea water was superior to those cures provided by inland spas. His ideas were widely acclaimed in England and abroad, and despite dispute regarding the best ways to use seawater, \"few disputed its value\".\n\nBy 1753, his treatment became so popular that he moved his surgery to Brighton. He bought a plot of land at the south of Old Steine, for £40 (£ as of ). The land is where the Royal Albion Hotel now stands. It was in a sheltered, marshy area of common land. The red-brick, gabled structure was Brighton's largest house to date, and accommodated both patients and Russell himself. The rear opened directly out to the beach.\n\nRussell's efforts have been credited with playing a role in the populist \"sea side mania of the second half of the eighteenth century\", although broader social movements were also at play. The plaque on the wall of the Royal Albion Hotel says simply: \"If you seek his monument, look around\". After Dr Russell's death in 1759, his house was rented to seasonal visitors, including the brother of George III the Duke of Cumberland in 1779. On 7 September 1783 the Prince Regent (then the Prince of Wales) visited his uncle. The Prince's subsequent patronage of the town for the next 40 years was central to the rapid growth of the town and the transition of the fishing village of \"Brighthelmston\" to the modern town of \"Brighton\".\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in February 1752.\n\nDr Richard Russell was buried at South Malling (St Michael), in Lewes. The Lewes geography section notes that the west part of South Malling is a tiny, previously separate village with a church dedicated to St Michael.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995638", "title": "Dedicated console", "text": "Dedicated console\n\nA dedicated console is a video game console that is limited to one or more built-in video game or games, and is not equipped for additional games that are distributed via ROM cartridges, discs, downloads or other digital media. Dedicated consoles were very popular in the first generation of video game consoles until they were gradually replaced by second-generation video game consoles that used ROM cartridges.\n\nMost of the earliest home video game systems were dedicated consoles, most popularly \"Pong\" and its many imitators. Unlike almost all later consoles, these systems were typically not computers (in which a CPU is running a piece of software), but contained a hardwired game logic.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, ROM cartridge-based systems, beginning with the Fairchild Channel F, had risen to prominence during the second generation of video game consoles due to the success of the Atari 2600, though stand-alone systems such as Coleco's Mini-Arcade series continued to have a smaller presence in the home video game console market until the North American video game crash of 1983. Since the Nintendo Entertainment System, ROM cartridge-based consoles had dominated the home market until CD-based consoles such as the PlayStation gained prominence in the mid and late 1990s.\n\nAll home video game consoles from the first generation of video game consoles are dedicated to one or a few games, they can usually be selected with a game switch on the console. Less common, the games can be selected with a cartridge. On these cartridges isn't a program; there are just a few wires that connect electrically a few parts of the intern console hardware that a game appears on the screen. Examples for this technique are the Magnavox Odyssey, the Coleco Telstar Arcade and the Philips Tele-Game ES 2201.\n\nDeveloping from earlier non-video electronic game cabinets such as pinball machines, arcade-style video games (whether coin-operated or individually owned) are usually dedicated to a single game or a small selection of built-in games and do not allow for external input in the form of ROM cartridges. Although modern arcade games such as \"Dance Dance Revolution X\" and \"\" do allow external input in the form of memory cards or USB sticks, this functionality usually only allows for saving progress or for providing modified level-data, and does not allow the dedicated machine to access new games. The game or games in a dedicated arcade console are usually housed in a stand-up cabinet that holds a video screen, a control deck or attachments for more complex control devices, and a computer or console hidden within that runs the games.\n\nFirst released in the mid-1970s by games such as Mattel Electronics' \"Mattel Auto Race\" and \"Mattel Electronic Football\", dedicated handheld video games are considered the precursors of modern handheld game consoles. Devoted to one game or a collection or built-in games, dedicated handhelds tend to employ simple VFD or LCD screens although older models often utilized even more primitive arrays of small light bulbs or LED lights to produce calculator-like alphanumerical screens. Dedicated handheld systems typically comprise a screen, a number of control buttons, and a compact body that houses the game engine. Nintendo's Game and Watch series increased the popularity of dedicated handheld games during 1980s.\n\nDedicated consoles have appeared for fishing games, where the unit's body itself becomes a specialized controller in the form of a rod and reel. Other dedicated consoles have been released with light guns, for hunting, shooting, and even archery games.\n\nRising to popularity in the early 1980s, game watches are electronic wristwatches that allow the wearer to access an included video game that uses the display in the watch's face as its screen. Game watch buttons which originally may have been used for setting hour and minute gain secondary functions in relation to the needs of the game.\n\nA dedicated console differs from a handheld TV game (or a \"plug and play game\") in that the latter integrates the video game console with the game controller.\n\nMost modern dedicated home game systems are popularly referred to as \"plug and play,\" because they are based on modern technology which enables the hardware and software of the entire game to be within a single controller, with no separate console at all. Some of these are clones of old games, and are produced in China or Southeast Asia (i.e. Power Player Super Joy III), while others contain licensed games and are distributed in mainstream stores in the West. Of the latter, Jakks Pacific's line of TV Games is among the most famous, which includes re-releases of many vintage games, from arcade classics to Atari 2600 games, as well as games based on currently-popular characters, such as SpongeBob SquarePants. Konami has also released a line of their classic arcade games, including Frogger, on \"plug and play\" dedicated systems.\n\nThe Pelican VG Pocket was an attempt to make a TV game with a backlit color LCD. Dedicated consoles and handheld electronic games with LCD screens that only have one game are rather distinct devices, but the release of the Pelican VG Pocket has blurred the categorization between the two.\n\nBeginning with the 2001 release by Toymax (and later Jakk's Pacific) of the Activision TV Games, there has been a revival of interest in dedicated consoles by nostalgia-driven retrogamers. The subsequent 2002 release of the \"Atari 10-in-1\" system prompted speculation of an Atari revival.\n\nIn 2002, the Brazilian Sega distributor Tectoy rereleased the Sega Master System with numerous games built in. These are not, strictly-speaking, dedicated consoles, however, as they also support cartridge-based games. As of 2006, however, no new cartridges are available for sale. Tectoy also released a portable Sega Mega Drive, with LCD screen and several games built in, but it has no cartridge port.\n\nIn 2004, a miniaturized version of the Atari 7800 home consoles was released with 20 built-in games and no cartridge support called Atari Flashback. The dedicated console is actually based on a clone of the NES hardware, but running Atari software. A newer version, Atari Flashback 2, is based on actual Atari hardware, and includes some new built-in games developed by modern hobbyist Atari 2600 programmers, as well as old favorite games. It is reported that, while the new console has no cartridge slot, it is designed such that a knowledgeable person can add one.\n\nIn the late 2010s, Nintendo, Sony, Sega, and SNK released dedicated consoles with built-in games that had been released earlier for their historic video game consoles. Examples of these dedicated consoles include the NES Classic Edition, Super NES Classic Edition, PlayStation Classic, Neo Geo Mini, and the Sega Genesis Mini, which usually are miniaturized replicas of their historic consoles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995642", "title": "Silicon Dreams Studio", "text": "Silicon Dreams Studio\n\nSilicon Dreams Studio Limited was a British video game developer based in Adderbury, England.\n\nSilicon Dreams Studio was founded by Geoff Brown in March 1994 as the in-house development team for video game publisher U.S. Gold, also founded by Brown, and became part of the CentreGold umbrella. In April 1996, the entirety of CentreGold (including Silicon Dreams) was acquired by Eidos Interactive for . However, in December 1996, Brown re-acquired a 75% share in the Silicon Dreams label for at least , and merged it into a new, legally incorporated entity, Silicon Dreams Studio, which became a subsidiary of Geoff Brown Holdings (later renamed Kaboom Studios). In August 2003, Kaboom Studios, facing financial difficulties, closed down sister studio, Attention to Detail, which led media to expect similar to happen to Silicon Dreams Studio. Silicon Dreams Studio entered liquidation on 3 September 2003, laying off all of its 55 employees and cancelling the in-development \"Urban Freestyle Soccer\". A successor to the company, Gusto Games, made up from eleven former Silicon Dreams Studio staff, was announced in October 2003. Gusto Games went on to finish work on \"Urban Freestyle Soccer\", which was released in December 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1995645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995645", "title": "Gary Danielson", "text": "Gary Danielson\n\nGary Dennis Danielson (born September 10, 1951) is a former professional American football player and a current college football commentator. Danielson was a quarterback in the National Football League (NFL). He played for the Detroit Lions from 1976 to 1984 and for the Cleveland Browns in 1985, 1987 and 1988. He is currently working for CBS Sports as a commentator for its college football coverage and previously held the same position for ABC Sports.\n\nDanielson played high school football at Divine Child High School under Tony Versaci in Dearborn, Michigan, and graduated in 1969. He played college football at Purdue University and graduated in 1973 with a Bachelor of Arts in industrial management. He would later earn a Master's degree in physical education in 1976. Danielson had succeeded Mike Phipps as the Boilermakers' starting quarterback in 1970 and had 30 touchdown passes and 14 interceptions with a 46 percent completion rate in two full seasons as a starter.\n\nDanielson spent two years in the short-lived World Football League as a non-starter, with the New York Stars/Charlotte Hornets in 1974 and the Chicago Winds in 1975. The Winds franchise folded a month before the league's collapse in October, and Danielson signed with the Lions for the 1976 season.\n\nHe amassed 13,764 passing yards and 81 touchdowns in 101 games in the NFL. He ranks fourth in Lions history in passing yards and touchdowns. His five touchdowns in a 1978 game against the Minnesota Vikings is still tied for a Lions record.\n\nDanielson got a start on his broadcasting career before his playing days were over. He was a part-time anchor/reporter at WDIV-TV during the off-season while a member of the Lions. In Cleveland, he co-hosted a sports talk show while a member of the Browns.\n\nAfter retiring from the Browns, Danielson joined ESPN as a college football analyst. He continued to work in that capacity for ESPN/ABC Sports until 2006, when he joined CBS Sports as a college football analyst, partnered with Verne Lundquist (and later Brad Nessler) on the network's primary broadcast team during Southeastern Conference telecasts. He also serves as the college football radio analyst for Paul Finebaum where he appears weekly during the college football season. Starting in the 2011 college football season, Danielson became a weekly guest on \"Mike's On: Francesa on the FAN\" with Mike Francesa. He has also become a regular guest on The Dan Patrick Show.\n\nIn addition to sportscasting, Danielson writes for Pravda, Roll Tide.com, and CNN.\n\nDanielson is married to wife Kristy with whom he has four children. The two met in college at Purdue, where Kristy's father, George King, was the head basketball coach and athletic director.\n\nThe Danielson family resided in Rochester Hills, Michigan, where the children attended Rochester Adams High School. Son Matt Danielson played college football at Northwestern.\n\nDanielson ran an importing and exporting business with former Lions teammate James Jones in the early 1990s. He has also invested in business ventures with former Browns teammate Bernie Kosar.\n"}
{"id": "1995648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995648", "title": "Billy McGimsie", "text": "Billy McGimsie\n\nWilliam George McGimsie (June 7, 1880 – October 28, 1968) was a Canadian amateur ice hockey player. He played six seasons as a centre for the Rat Portage/Kenora Thistles between 1901 and 1907. A leading offensive player of his era, McGimsie led the Manitoba and North West Hockey League with 28 goals in 8 games in 1904–05. He was a member of three Thistles' teams that challenged for the Stanley Cup, winning the national championship in 1907. His career was ended when he suffered a separated shoulder in an exhibition game. McGimsie was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963.\n\nMcGimsie was born on June 7, 1880, the son of a contractor who frequently moved around for work. He was born in Woodville in southeastern Ontario, but moved to Rat Portage in the northwest of the province at the age of one. He became interested in hockey at an early age; his first pair of skates were stolen from his sister. They were of a style designed to clamp onto his normal shoes, and he wore them for several years as his family could not afford a newer pair.\n\nThe establishment of the Stanley Cup as Canada's national hockey championship in 1893 inspired McGimsie, who dedicated his early life to winning it. He played in school, church and mercantile leagues as a youth. His brother Charlie was also a player, and McGimsie played his youth hockey with future Hockey Hall of Famers Si Griffis, Tommy Phillips and Tom Hooper.\n\nFollowing his youth career, McGimsie joined the Rat Portage Thistles' intermediate team where he scored eight goals in four games in 1901–02. Turning his focus exclusively to hockey, McGimsie quit school and paid a $2 fee to join the Thistles' senior team for the following season. He scored ten goals in four regular season games to help the Thistles win the Manitoba and North West Hockey Association (MNWHA) championship. The team then challenged the Ottawa Silver Seven for control of the Stanley Cup. The Thistles were outmatched by Ottawa in the two-game, total-goals series, losing by 6–2 and 4–2 scores. McGimsie scored three of his team's four goals.\n\nA 14-goal season in 1903–04 gave way to 28 goals, in 8 games, for McGimsie in 1904–05. He led the Manitoba Hockey League (MHL) in scoring that season and led the team to a second league championship. The Thistles again challenged the Silver Seven for the Stanley Cup. This series was held as a best-of-three games. Led by Tommy Phillips' five goals, Rat Portage won the first game by a 9–3 score against an Ottawa team that was missing its star, Frank McGee. The return of McGee for the final two games sparked the Silver Seven, who won both games, 4–2 and 5–4, to retain the Stanley Cup.\n\nMcGimsie finished third in MHL scoring with 21 goals in 1905–06 for the Kenora Thistles, whose name changed along with that their town. The team defeated the Winnipeg Hockey Club in a single game playoff, 8–2, to win the Manitoba championship, but made no challenge for the Stanley Cup that season. The challenge failed to materialize as the Stanley Cup's trustees felt it was too late in the season for a series. Instead, they mandated that the Montreal Wanderers, who won the Cup from Ottawa, would face the Thistles in a two-game series for the trophy midway through the 1906–07 season. The Thistles won the first game by a 4–2 score. In the second game, played January 21, 1907, McGimsie scored one of Kenora's eight goals as the Thistles took the second match 8–6 and won the Stanley Cup by a combined score of 12–8. With a population of around 4,000, Kenora became the smallest town to ever win the Stanley Cup.\n\nOn their return to Kenora, the Thistles stopped in Ottawa and Toronto to play exhibition games. In the January 23 game at Ottawa, McGimsie was knocked out of the game with an injury that was not initially considered serious, described as a \"badly bruised and slightly dislocated shoulder\". He played in the Thistles' next exhibition in Toronto on January 25, but the injury ended McGimsie's career. He and his teammates were feted when they returned to Kenora, and McGimsie accepted a $2,000 reward from the team for winning the championship. He briefly coached in Fort William, Ontario, serving behind the bench for one season in 1910–11, and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963.\n\nMcGimsie became a jeweller, an occupation that led to his moving frequently across western Canada until his daughter convinced him to settle in Calgary, Alberta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995656", "title": "Lucens", "text": "Lucens\n\nLucens is a municipality in the Broye-Vully district in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. In 2017 the former municipalities of Brenles, Chesalles-sur-Moudon, Cremin, Forel-sur-Lucens and Sarzens merged into the municipality of Lucens.\n\nLucens is first mentioned in 964 as \"in villa Losingus\". It was formerly known by the German name \"Losingen\".\n\nIn 1969 the Lucens reactor, an underground nuclear reactor, began operations. It was a pilot project to test a heavy-water moderated, carbon dioxide gas-cooled reactor. Soon after the initial start up, an undetected blockage in one of the cooling pipes led to a partial fuel meltdown and massive radioactive contamination of the underground site. Following the accident, the reactor was decommissioned and the cavern was then sealed. No humans were irradiated in the accident.\n\nAfter the 2017 merger Lucens had an area of .\n\nBefore the merger Lucens had an area, (as of the 2004/09 survey) of . Of this area, about 42.9% is used for agricultural purposes, while 36.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 18.0% is settled (buildings or roads) and 2.3% is unproductive land. In the 2013/18 survey a total of or about 12.0% of the total area was covered with buildings, an increase of over the 1981 amount. Over the same time period, the amount of recreational space in the municipality decreased by and is now about 0.38% of the total area. Of the agricultural land, is used for orchards and vineyards, is fields and grasslands. Since 1981 the amount of agricultural land has decreased by . Over the same time period the amount of forested land has decreased by . Rivers and lakes cover in the municipality.\n\nThe municipality was part of the Moudon District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Lucens became part of the new district of Broye-Vully.\n\nThe municipality is located along the left bank of the Broye.\n\nThe municipality of Oulens-sur-Lucens will merge on 1 July 2011 into the municipality of Lucens.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Per bend Argent and Gules, overall a Sun in his splendour Or.\"\n\nLucens has a population () of . , 31.2% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 12.2%. It has changed at a rate of 10.8% due to migration and at a rate of 1.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (1,822 or 82.0%), with Italian being second most common (111 or 5.0%) and Albanian being third (77 or 3.5%). There are 44 people who speak German and 4 people who speak Romansh.\n\nOf the population in the municipality 575 or about 25.9% were born in Lucens and lived there in 2000. There were 565 or 25.4% who were born in the same canton, while 354 or 15.9% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 644 or 29.0% were born outside of Switzerland.\n\nIn there were 19 live births to Swiss citizens and 10 births to non-Swiss citizens, and in same time span there were 21 deaths of Swiss citizens and 1 non-Swiss citizen death. Ignoring immigration and emigration, the population of Swiss citizens decreased by 2 while the foreign population increased by 9. There were 3 Swiss men and 10 Swiss women who immigrated back to Switzerland. At the same time, there were 22 non-Swiss men and 25 non-Swiss women who immigrated from another country to Switzerland. The total Swiss population change in 2008 (from all sources, including moves across municipal borders) was an increase of 69 and the non-Swiss population decreased by 8 people. This represents a population growth rate of 2.7%.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Lucens is; 256 children or 11.1% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 284 teenagers or 12.3% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 284 people or 12.3% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 334 people or 14.4% are between 30 and 39, 371 people or 16.0% are between 40 and 49, and 275 people or 11.9% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 252 people or 10.9% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 158 people or 6.8% are between 70 and 79, there are 83 people or 3.6% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 19 people or 0.8% who are 90 and older.\n\n, there were 880 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 1,073 married individuals, 148 widows or widowers and 120 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 913 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.3 persons per household. There were 312 households that consist of only one person and 69 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 939 households that answered this question, 33.2% were households made up of just one person and there were 7 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 244 married couples without children, 301 married couples with children There were 37 single parents with a child or children. There were 12 households that were made up of unrelated people and 26 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n\nLucens Castle is listed as a Swiss heritage site of national significance. The entire town of Lucens is part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the 2015 federal election the most popular party was the SVP with 29.8% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (25.6%), the FDP (22.4%) and the GPS (9.5%). In the federal election, a total of 542 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 34.6%.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 29.38% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (26.59%), the FDP (20.05%) and the Green Party (8.56%). In the federal election, a total of 494 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 41.2%.\n\nLucens is an industrial community, or a municipality where manufacturing provides over a quarter of all jobs.\n\n, there were a total of 1,176 people employed in the municipality. Of these, a total of 23 people worked in 10 businesses in the primary economic sector. The secondary sector employed 620 workers in 47 separate businesses. A minority (19.5%) of the secondary sector employees worked in very small businesses. There were 7 small businesses with a total of 185 employees and 3 mid sized businesses with a total of 314 employees. Finally, the tertiary sector provided 533 jobs in 123 businesses. There were 4 small businesses with a total of 142 employees and one mid sized business with a total of 92 employees. In 2014 a total of 10.7% of the population received social assistance.\n\n, there were 464 workers who commuted into the municipality and 609 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 7.6% used public transportation to get to work, and 64.8% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 859 or 38.7% were Roman Catholic, while 802 or 36.1% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 8 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.36% of the population), there were 9 individuals (or about 0.41% of the population) who belonged to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 61 individuals (or about 2.75% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There was 1 individual who was Jewish, and 199 (or about 8.96% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 2 individuals who were Buddhist and 2 individuals who belonged to another church. 126 (or about 5.67% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 152 individuals (or about 6.84% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Lucens about 705 or (31.7%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 148 or (6.7%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 148 who completed tertiary schooling, 57.4% were Swiss men, 21.6% were Swiss women, 13.5% were non-Swiss men and 7.4% were non-Swiss women.\n\nIn the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 278 students in the Lucens school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts. During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 155 children of which 83 children (53.5%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 129 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 139 students in those schools. There were also 10 students who were home schooled or attended another non-traditional school. Lucens is home to 1 museum, the \"Musée Sherlock Holmes\". In 2009 the \"Musée Sherlock Holmes\" was visited by 1,359 visitors (the average in previous years was 1,373).\n\n, there were 134 students in Lucens who came from another municipality, while 61 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\nIn 2014 the crime rate, of the over 200 crimes listed in the Swiss Criminal Code (running from murder, robbery and assault to accepting bribes and election fraud), in Lucens was 58.8 per thousand residents. This rate is only 61.3% of the cantonal rate and about the same as the national rate (64.6). During the same period, the rate of drug crimes was 2.5 per thousand residents. This rate is only 25.3% of the national rate. The rate of violations of immigration, visa and work permit laws was 1.3 per thousand residents. This rate is only 26.5% of the rate for the entire country.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995671", "title": "George McNamara", "text": "George McNamara\n\nGeorge Andrew McNamara (August 26, 1886 – March 10, 1952) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He was a member of the 1914 Toronto Blueshirts Stanley Cup champions. His brothers Harold and Howard also played professional ice hockey.\n\nWhen George was a youngster, his family moved to Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario and it was in the Soo that he first learned the game of hockey. McNamara made his professional hockey debut playing with the Sault Ste. Marie Marlboros of the International Hockey League during the 1906–1907 season. George and his brother, Howard, also briefly a member of the Soo Marlboros, were known as the \"Dynamite Twins\" because of their bone-crunching body checks.\n\nThe International Hockey League folded in 1907 when a purely amateur game in Canada finally gave way to professional leagues and the top Canadian players were lured back to Canada to play. McNamara, a big, rugged defenceman, was in high demand among Canadian professional clubs, playing with four different clubs in four different leagues from 1908 to 1913.\n\nMcNamara was one of the best open ice checkers of his day. He would help the Toronto Blueshirts win the 1914 Stanley Cup. His professional hockey career was interrupted when he joined the Canadian Army in World War I. He was a member of the 228th Battalion team that played in the National Hockey Association before being ordered overseas on February 10, 1917.\n\nAfter returning from the service, McNamara became the coach of the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds and lead the team to the Allan Cup championship in 1924. George and Howard founded the McNamara Construction Company and developed it into a prosperous firm.\n\nMcNamara was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1958.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995672", "title": "Eordaia", "text": "Eordaia\n\nEordaia () is a municipality in the Kozani regional unit, Greece. The seat of the municipality is the town Ptolemaida. The municipality has an area of 708.807 km. The population was 45,592 in 2011.\n\nThe municipality Eordaia was formed at the 2011 local government reform by the merger of the following 5 former municipalities, that became municipal units:\n\nThe province of Eordaia () was one of the provinces of the Kozani Prefecture. Its territory corresponded with that of the current municipality Eordaia, and a few villages of the municipality Kozani. It was abolished in 2006.\n\nThe history of Eordaia can be found stretching long before 2000 BCE when the first Greeks known as the Mycenean Greeks began to inhabit this area. Remnants of copper mines exploited from 2700 up until 1200 BCE indicate strongly that the Greeks inhabited Eordaia for many of years. Iron mines have also been exploited in the region.\n\nWithin a 50-year period, paleontologists and archaeologists have made many discoveries due to the industrial development of the Eordaian countryside. In particular, the skeletal fossils of a prehistoric mammoth, a prehistoric elephant, and Stone Age tools have all been found within the province of Eordaia. These finds add to knowledge on the variety of animal species and human artifacts in this particular region of western Macedonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995673", "title": "Eordaea", "text": "Eordaea\n\nEordaea () was an ancient kingdom and later an administrative region of the kingdom of Macedon. It was part of the ancient geographical region of Upper Macedonia and was located south of Lynkestis, west of Emathia, north of Elimiotis and east of Orestis. The modern province and municipality Eordaia were named after the ancient kingdom and region.\n\nThe capital of Eordaea was the city of Eordaea () (), which was mentioned by many historians and geographers of antiquity.\n\nThe history of Eordaea stretches long before 2000 BCE when the first Greeks, known as the Mycenean Greeks, began to inhabit this area. Remnants of exploited copper mines from 2700 up until 1200 BCE strongly indicate that the Greeks inhabited Eordaea for many years. Iron mines have also been exploited in the Eordean region.\n\nWithin a 50-year period, paleontologists and archaeologists have made many discoveries due to the industrial development of the Eordean countryside. In particular, the skeletal fossils of a prehistoric mammoth, a prehistoric elephant, and Stone Age tools have all been found within the province of Eordaea. These finds add to knowledge on the variety of animal species and human artifacts from the region of Western Macedonia.\n\nMany ancient towns of Eordaea are mentioned and many archaeological sites have been examined on the past decades, certainly around the Vegoritida lake, but it is difficult to distinguish their names.\n\nThe most significant towns, according to Ancient Greek, Roman and Byzantine Greek writers, were:\n\n"}
{"id": "1995678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995678", "title": "Paddy Moran (ice hockey)", "text": "Paddy Moran (ice hockey)\n\nPatrick Joseph Alexander \"Paddy\" Moran (March 11, 1877 – January 14, 1966) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. Moran played all but one of his 16 seasons for the Quebec Hockey Club, from 1901 to 1917; in the 1909–10 season, Moran played for the All-Montreal and the Haileybury Comets. Moran was noted for protecting the area in front of his net by aggressively using his stick, and expectorating at opposing players while chewing tobacco. He won two Stanley Cups with Quebec in 1912 and 1913. Moran was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1958.\n\nMoran began playing ice hockey at the age of 15, with a local Quebec team. At age 17, Moran changed schools as his school was one of the few in Quebec City not to have an ice hockey team. At the age of 19, Moran helped his new club, the Crescents, win the Intermediate Championship.\n\nMoran began his playing career with the Quebec Hockey Club in the Canadian Amateur Hockey League (CAHL). Over four seasons, Moran appeared in 30 games, winning 19 of them. For the 1905–06 season, the Quebec Hockey Club joined the Eastern Canada Amateur Hockey Association (ECAHA). Over the next four years, Moran appeared in 38 games, but won only 11 of them, while his lowest goals-against average in a season during that span was 6.79. In the 1909–10 season, Moran joined the Montreal All-Stars from the Canadian Hockey Association (CHA) and as the league folded, he then joined the Haileybury Comets of the National Hockey Association (NHA). In his only season with the Comets, Moran posted a 3–8 record over 11 games, letting in 79 goals.\n\nFor the 1910–11 season, Moran rejoined Quebec. That year, Quebec finished last in the league, winning only four games, and letting in 97 goals against. In the 1911–12 season, Moran went 10–8 over 18 games, with a 4.26 goals-against average. They won the O'Brien Cup and the Stanley Cup after finishing with the best record in the league. In the Stanley Cup challenge against the Moncton Victorias of the Maritime Professional Hockey League (MPHL), Quebec won the first game 9–3, and the second game 8–0. Moran finished with a 1.50 goals-against average, while Jack McDonald and Joe Malone combined for 14 out of the 17 Quebec goals as Quebec won the Stanley Cup.\n\nThe next season, Moran went 16–4 in the regular season in 20 games, with one shutout and a 3.70 goals-against average. Quebec repeated as O'Brien Cup winners, and had a Stanley Cup challenge once more, playing against the Sydney Miners of the MPHL. Quebec repeated as champions, winning the three-game series 2–0. In the first game, Quebec won 14–3, as Malone scored nine goals, while in the second one, Quebec emerged with a slimmer margin of victory, winning 6–2.\n\nMoran finished his career with the Bulldogs, retiring after the NHA's last season. He played four more seasons, during which he played 69 games, winning 34 of them. Over his career, Moran's teams often had losing records, or they had a winning percentage barely over 50%. Some hockey legends often recall that he was the best goaltender of them all. He was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1958, with the help of Senator Chubby Power, once a teammate. He is still the earliest goaltender in HHOF, starting his senior hockey venture in 1901.\n\nMoran was a stand-up style goaltender. At and 180 lb (82 kg/12 st 12 lb), he was considered a big goaltender for his era. In Moran's era, goaltenders were not allowed to drop down to the ice to make saves, so his style suited him well. Moran was especially noted for his aggressive defense of the area in front of his net. He used his stick to slash opposing players within reach. Moran often chewed tobacco while on the ice, and another favorite tactic of his was to expectorate at opposing players. Moran's stick work was described as attempts to \"slash [other players'] heads off with lightning strokes of his blade\". Moran often wore oversized sweaters, claiming that they kept him warm in the cold arenas; however, he kept it unbuttoned, and often used it to catch shots.\n\nMoran retired after the 1916–17 season, at the age of 39. He was proud to have built his own house with his ice hockey earnings, which cost CAN$4,000. In 1919, Moran became a custom house builder, and continued in this career for at least 35 years. In 1944 at age 66, Moran was interviewed about his playing days, along with contemporary goaltender Percy LeSueur, who is noted for his Stanley Cup wins in 1909 and 1911 with the Ottawa Senators. Later in his life, Moran became an avid follower of the Quebec Aces. He was inducted into the Quebec Hockey Hall of Fame. In 1958, Moran was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. He died on January 14, 1966.\n"}
{"id": "1995686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995686", "title": "Sally Gray", "text": "Sally Gray\n\nConstance Vera Browne, Baroness Oranmore and Browne (\"née\" Stevens; 14 February 1915 – 24 September 2006), commonly known as Sally Gray, was an English film actress of the 1930s and 1940s. Her obituary in \"The Irish Times\" described her as \"once seen as a British rival to Ginger Rogers.\"\n\nAccording to one obituary, \"In the Thirties she was a charming soubrette of light movies and musical comedy. After a break from performing, she emerged in the mid-Forties as a sultry beauty who starred in a series of moody dramas and potent thrillers.\"\n\nBorn Constance Vera Stevens in Holloway, London, Gray was the daughter of Charles Stevens, who drove a motor cab, and his wife, Gertrude Grace. Her mother was a ballet dancer and her grandmother a \"principal boy\" in the 1870s. Her father died when Gray was young.\n\nShe trained as a child at Fay Compton's School of Dramatic Art, and began acting on stage at the age of 10. Gray made her professional stage debut at the age of twelve in \"All God's Chillun\" at the Globe Theatre in London, playing an African boy. When she was 14, Gray appeared in a minstrel show at the Gate Theatre in London. She made her film debut with a bit part in \"The School for Scandal\" (1930).\n\nShe then went back to school for two years, training at Fay Compton's School of Dramatic Art, during which time she performed in cabarets.\n\nShe appeared in \"The Gay Divorce\" (1933) on stage with Fred Astaire. The agent John Gliddon saw her in the musical \"Jill Darling\" (1934) and signed her.\n\nGray returned to films in 1935, with \"The Dictator\" (1935). She could also be seen in \"Cross Currents\" (1935), \"Radio Pirates\" (1935), \"Lucky Days\" (1935), and \"Checkmate\" (1935). She returned on stage and was spotted by Stanley Lupino, who fell in love with her.\n\nGray had the female lead in \"Cheer Up\" (1936) with Stanley Lupino. She had leads in \"Calling the Tune\" (1936), \"Cafe Colette\" (1936), and \"Saturday Night Revue\" (1937) with Billy Milton. In 1936 she was earning £150 a week. Gray had support roles in \"Lightning Conductor\" (1937), a thriller; \"Over She Goes\" (1937) with Lupino; \"Mr. Reeder in Room 13\" (1937), a non musical; and \"Hold My Hand\" (1938) with Lupino. Gray was the female lead in \"Sword of Honour\" (1938), \"The Saint in London\" (1939) with George Sanders, \"The Lambeth Walk\" (1939) with Lupino Lane, and \"A Window in London\" (1940), a non musical film with Michael Redgrave. Gray was in \"Olympic Honeymoon\" (1940) then had the female lead in \"The Saint's Vacation\" (1941). She had a sensitive role in Brian Desmond Hurst's romantic melodrama \"Dangerous Moonlight\" (1941). The same year she appeared in the West End musical \"Lady Behave\" which had been written by her co-star Stanley Lupino. The show had to close early because of Lupino's illness.\n\nGray returned to the stage to star in \"My Sister Eileen\" (1942) with Coral Browne. Lupino died, leaving Gray £10,000. Gray had a nervous breakdown, resulting in her retirement for a number of years.\n\nGray returned to the screen in 1946 and made her strongest bid for stardom in a series of melodramas. They include the hospital thriller \"Green for Danger\" (1946), \"Carnival\" (1946), \"They Made Me a Fugitive\" (1947) and \"The Mark of Cain\" (1948). Gray then made \"Silent Dust\" (1948) and Edward Dmytryk's \"film noir\" piece \"Obsession\" (1949), in which she plays Robert Newton's faithless wife. Her final film was the spy yarn \"Escape Route\" (1952).\n\nRKO executives, impressed with Gray, authorised producer William Sistrom to offer her a long-term contract if she would move to the United States. John Paddy Carstairs, director of \"The Saint in London\", also thought she could be a star. However, she declined the offer and instead retired in 1952 after getting married.\n\nGray married The 4th Baron Oranmore and Browne, an Anglo-Irish peer, on 1 December 1951, and lived in County Mayo, Ireland. The couple kept the marriage secret until the 1953 coronation of Elizabeth II, at which she appeared with her husband.\n\nIn the early 1960s they returned to England and settled in a flat in Eaton Place, Belgravia, London. The couple had no children.\n\nGray died on 24 September 2006, at 91 years of age, in London, England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995690", "title": "Spectral resolution", "text": "Spectral resolution\n\nThe spectral resolution of a spectrograph, or, more generally, of a frequency spectrum, is a measure of its ability to resolve features in the electromagnetic spectrum. It is usually denoted by formula_1, and is closely related to the resolving power of the spectrograph, defined as\n\nformula_2,\n\nwhere formula_1 is the smallest difference in wavelengths that can be distinguished at a wavelength of formula_4. For example, the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) can distinguish features 0.17 nm apart at a wavelength of 1000 nm, giving it a resolution of 0.17 nm and a resolving power of about 5,900. An example of a high resolution spectrograph is the \"Cryogenic High-Resolution IR Echelle Spectrograph\" (CRIRES) installed at ESO's Very Large Telescope, which has a spectral resolving power of up to 100,000.\n\nThe spectral resolution can also be expressed in terms of physical quantities, such as velocity; then it describes the difference between velocities formula_5 that can be distinguished through the Doppler effect. Then, the resolution is formula_5 and the resolving power is \n\nformula_7\n\nwhere formula_8 is the speed of light. The STIS example above then has a spectral resolution of 51 km/s.\n\nIUPAC defines resolution in optical spectroscopy as the minimum wavenumber, wavelength or frequency difference between two lines in a spectrum that can be distinguished. Resolving power, \"R\", is given by the transition wavenumber, wavelength or frequency, divided by the resolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995696", "title": "Donnie Brasco (film)", "text": "Donnie Brasco (film)\n\nDonnie Brasco is a 1997 American crime drama film directed by Mike Newell, and starring Al Pacino and Johnny Depp. Michael Madsen, Bruno Kirby, James Russo, and Anne Heche appeared in supporting roles. The film, written by Paul Attanasio, is based on the 1988 nonfiction book \"\" by Joseph D. Pistone, assisted by Richard Woodley.\n\nThe film is loosely based on the true story of Joseph D. Pistone (Depp), an FBI undercover agent who infiltrated the Bonanno crime family in New York City during the 1970s, under the alias Donnie Brasco. Brasco maneuvers his way into the confidence of an aging Mafia hitman, Lefty Ruggiero (Pacino), who vouches for him. As Donnie moves deeper into the Mafia, he realizes that not only is he crossing the line between federal agent and criminal, but also leading his friend Lefty to an almost certain death.\n\n\"Donnie Brasco\" premiered in Century City on February 24, 1997, and was released on February 28, 1997, by TriStar Pictures. The film was a box office success, earning $124.9 million against its $35 million budget, and received positive reviews from critics. The film was nominated for an Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay.\n\nIn 1970s New York City, Lefty, an aging gangster in the Bonanno crime family, is introduced to a jewel thief named Donnie, who impresses Lefty by threatening a diamond dealer whom Donnie suspects of having sold Lefty a zirconia set ring, priced as a real diamond one. Lefty teaches Donnie the rules of the Mafia and introduces him to several made men, including Sonny, Nicky, and caporegime Sonny Red.\n\nDonnie is revealed to be Joseph D. Pistone, an undercover FBI agent, whose wife, Maggie, is not fond of the his undercover position. After the Bonanno family's street boss is killed, Sonny Red assumes his position. As the crew runs a series of successful shakedowns and hijackings in Brooklyn, Pistone infiltrates the Mafia and collects more information for the FBI via wiretap recording.\n\nFBI supervisor Dean Blandford takes an interest in the case, and asks Pistone to incorporate a Miami-based undercover FBI agent, Richie Gazzo, into the Bonanno's operation. Though reluctant, Pistone convinces Sonny and the crew to meet Richie in Miami, where Donnie and Lefty plan to run Richie's nightclub on their own, and attempt to impress Florida mob boss, Trafficante, with a yacht party. Sonny reaches there first, angering Lefty, especially for offering Donnie to run the club as an unofficial made man. However, they later reconcile when Lefty's son nearly dies of a drug overdose.\n\nOn its opening day, the nightclub is raided by Miami police on orders from Trafficante, who was colluding with Sonny Red. Suspecting Sonny Red to be responsible, the crew, without Donnie, kill Sonny Red and two rival caporegimes after calling a meeting. The crew also kills Nicky, who was found to have been carrying out a narcotics deal without Sonny's knowledge and without making payments \"up the chain.\" Donnie helps with the clean up of the bodies. With Sonny becoming the new street boss, Donnie is tasked with finding and killing Sonny Red's son, Bruno.\n\nAt home, Pistone's behavior increasingly becomes like that of the criminal he pretends to be. One last dispute between Donnie and his wife becomes physical.\n\nWith increasing pressure from the FBI to end the operation and make arrests, Donnie tries convincing Lefty to escape his criminal life. However, Bruno is tracked down and Lefty discovers that the yacht Donnie had previously arranged was federally owned. Outside the location where Bruno is hiding, Lefty confronts Donnie about his loyalties. At gunpoint, Lefty forces Donnie out to kill Bruno to confirm his loyalties, but before either murder can be committed, FBI agents arrive and apprehend them.\n\nFBI agents visit Sonny's hangout, and reveal Donnie's true identity to him and his crew by showing them photographs of Pistone in FBI uniform. Later, Lefty is summoned to a meeting; he leaves behind his valuables and tells his girlfriend that if Donnie calls to tell him that \"if it was going to be anyone, I'm glad it was him,\" as he goes to his implied death. With his family in attendance, Pistone attends a small private ceremony for his service, being awarded a $500 check and a medal.\n\nThe end title cards state that the evidence collected by \"Donnie Brasco\" led to over 200 indictments and over 100 convictions. Pistone lives with his wife under an assumed name in an undisclosed location, with a $500,000 open contract on his head.\n\nWhen Pistone's book, \"\" was published in 1988, Louis DiGiaimo, who worked as a casting director for Barry Levinson, was a childhood acquaintance of Joseph D. Pistone, and served as a consultant for the book, he bought the film rights. DiGiaimo brought it to Levinson's Baltimore Pictures, as well as producers Mark Johnson and Gail Mutrux, who then turned to Paul Attanasio to write the script. Stephen Frears was initially hired as director for the film, but when \"Goodfellas\", another mob film, was released in 1990, the planning for the film was pushed back. Frears was adamant about casting Pacino to play Lefty. After several years of development hell, Frears was eventually replaced with Mike Newell as director, and development picked up in 1996. Pacino and Depp were ultimately cast in the co-starring roles, and Pistone was hired as a consultant to help them develop their characters.\n\n\"Donnie Brasco\" premiered in Century City, California on February 24, 1997. It was given a wide release in North America on February 28, 1997. It was released in the United Kingdom on May 2, 1997.\n\n\"Donnie Brasco\" was released on DVD in October 2000 as a \"special edition\" with bonus materials such as commentary tracks. In January 2006, \"Donnie Brasco\" was released as part of a DVD mob box set along with \"Snatch\", \"Bugsy\" and \"The American Gangster\". In May 2007, \"Donnie Brasco\" was released on Blu-ray in an extended cut.\n\n\"Donnie Brasco\" was released theatrically in North America on February 28, 1997. The film earned $11.6 million from 1,503 theaters during its opening weekend. It went on to earn $41.9 million in North America and $83 million from other markets, for a total of $124.9 million.\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 88% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 57 reviews, with an average score of 7.81/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"A stark, nuanced portrait of life in organized crime, bolstered by strong performances from Al Pacino and Johnny Depp.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating using reviews from mainstream critics, the film received an weighted average score of 76 out of 100, based on 21 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nJanet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" called it \"a sharp, clever encounter, overturning all manner of genre cliches and viewer expectations... and the best crime movie in a long while, is full of similar surprises as it leads Mr. Pacino and Johnny Depp through a fine-tuned tale of deception.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" called it a \"wonderfully dense, clever, and moving gangland thriller,\" and gave it an A–, also praising Paul Attanasio's screenplay as \"a rich, satisfying gumbo of back stabbing, shady business maneuvers, and mayhem.\" Roger Ebert from the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave it three and a half stars out of four. \"Siskel and Ebert\" gave \"Donnie Brasco\" \"two thumbs up.\" Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" praised the film, saying that \"\"Donnie Brasco\" is one terrific movie.\" Mick LaSalle from the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" gave the film a positive review and said that \"Donnie Brasco\" was \"a first class Mafia thriller.\"\n\nCritics praised Depp's performance especially: a \"Salon.com\" review hailed Depp's performance as \"sensational.\" \"New York Magazine\" called him \"graceful\" and found his acting highly believable: \"We can believe that the mob might take him for a tough, ambitious young hood—he has the wariness and the self-confidence that creates an aura.\"\n\nAccording to Charles Taylor in his review for \"Salon.com\", both Pacino and Depp are \"in top form\"; in remarking on Pacino's frequent collaborations with younger actors (Sean Penn, John Cusack), Taylor called \"Donnie Brasco\" \"the best in this series of duets\" and singled out Pacino's skills: \"His final scene is all the more heartbreaking for the economy of gesture and feeling he brings it. It's an exit that does justice to both the actor and the role, and it leaves an ache in the movie.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" reserved its highest praise for Pacino: \"If \"Donnie Brasco\" belongs to any actor, though, it's Al Pacino.\" \"The Playlist\" called it one of Pacino's best performances, writing \"though \"Scent of A Woman\", \"Two Bits\" and even (relatively) \"Heat\" showcased Pacino at his most exuberantly grandiose, Brasco brings him back to a performance of stealth and nuance\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995699", "title": "National Justice Museum", "text": "National Justice Museum\n\nThe National Justice Museum (formerly known as the Galleries of Justice Museum and, historically, the Shire Hall and County Gaol) is an independent museum on High Pavement in the Lace Market area of Nottingham, England. \n\nThe museum is housed in a former Victorian courtroom, gaol and police station and is therefore a historic site where an individual could be arrested, tried, sentenced and executed. The courtrooms date back to the 14th century and the gaol to at least 1449.\n\nThe building is a Grade II* listed building and the museum is a registered charity.\n\nThe earliest confirmed use of the site for official purposes was by the Normans, who appointed sheriffs to keep the peace and collect taxes; hence the site was sometimes referred to as the Sheriff's Hall, the County Hall or the King's Hall. The first written record of the site being used as a law court dates from 1375. The first written reference to its use as a prison is in 1449.\n\nOver the centuries, the courts and prison were developed and enlarged. In 1724, the courtroom floor collapsed. The \"Nottingham Courant\" in March 1724 recorded:\n\nThe Hall was rebuilt between 1769 and 1772. The architect was James Gandon of London and the cost around £2,500 (). The builder was Joseph Pickford of Derby. The inscription on the top of the building reads:\n\nThe building was fronted by an iron palisade.\n\nAdditional wings were added to the building between 1820 and 1840. Changes were made to the \"nisi prius\" court in 1833. The judges' retiring room, barristers' robing room and office for a clerk were added in 1844. A new grand jury room was added in 1859 to designs by the architect Richard Charles Sutton. Until 1832 most Nottingham hangings took place at Gallows Hill, but in 1832 they transferred to the Shire Hall. The last public execution was held in 1864, when Richard Thomas Parker was hanged. \n\nExecutions were held on a scaffold erected over the stone steps in front of the central doorway, within the small enclosure created by closing the gates of the iron railings. The drop was described as approximately level with the lintel of the door. Three small square stone insets in the steps are, in local legend, the sockets where the \"Three-legged Mare\" scaffold feet were set, but this design of scaffold was never used at Nottingham and the steps themselves post-date the 1876 fire (see below) and public hangings. After the abolition of public executions in 1868, most hangings took place at the Borough Gaol but on 21 November 1877 Thomas Gray was hanged in a yard at the rear of the Shire Hall.\n\nIn 1876, major improvements were made and the front was redesigned in an Italianate style by William Bliss Sanders of Nottingham. Within a few weeks, a fire broke out and nearly destroyed all of the newly completed work. Following the fire, the courts were largely rebuilt by Thomas Chambers Hine between 1876 and 1879; but the gaol was closed in 1878.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the Local Government Act 1888, which established county councils in every county, the building also became the meeting place of Nottinghamshire County Council.\n\nA police station was built adjacent the building in 1905. After the County Council moved to County Hall (a larger and more modern complex located on the south bank of the River Trent) in 1954, the Shire Hall continued in use as the home of Nottingham's civil and criminal courts until 1991, when Nottingham Crown Court was opened on Canal Street.\n\nThe Galleries of Justice Museum opened in the building in 1995. It was refurbished and rebranded as the National Justice Museum in 2017. The building houses two courtrooms, an underground jail and a site used for executions.\n\nThe Crime Gallery includes a range of family activities, interactive exhibits and exhibitions exploring a range of topics relating to crime and punishment. The area also includes the dock from Bow Street Magistrates' Court.\n"}
{"id": "1995700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995700", "title": "Frank Nighbor", "text": "Frank Nighbor\n\nJulius Francis \"Pembroke Peach\" Nighbor (January 26, 1893 – April 13, 1966) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played for the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL) and National Hockey Association (NHA) and Toronto Maple Leafs of the NHL, Toronto Blueshirts of the NHA and Vancouver Millionaires of the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA). An excellent defensive forward, his poke check, backchecking and bodychecking abilities thwarted enemy forwards' scoring attempts. For his somewhat high penalty totals, he was a clean player and one of the last 60 minute hockey players. For his contributions on the ice, Nighbor was the first player ever to be awarded the Hart Trophy and the first to be awarded the Lady Byng Trophy.\n\nFrank Nighbor first played professionally for the Port Arthur Bearcats of the Northern Ontario Hockey League (NOHL) in 1911. Fellow Pembroke native Harry Cameron was invited to play for Port Arthur but refused to go without Nighbor. The club agreed to bring Nighbor along, but they left him on the bench until injuries gave him an opportunity to play. He made the most of his opportunity by registering six goals in his first appearance.\n\nIn 1912, he joined the new Toronto Blueshirts of the NHA where he scored 25 goals in 18 games. He only played the one season in Toronto, jumping to Vancouver of the PCHA the following season for two seasons, and was an important member of the Millionaires team which won the Stanley Cup over the Ottawa Senators in 1915.\n\nHe returned east after the Stanley Cup series and joined the Senators, whom he would play for until 1930, an important part of the dynasty of the 1920s winning four more cups in 1920, 1921, 1923, and 1927. He had his best season in 1916–17, scoring 41 goals in 19 games, finishing tied for the league lead with Joe Malone. In 1919–20 he scored 26 goals and 15 assists in just 23 games, then had a further 6 goals in 5 playoff games and led the Senators to their first Cup in the NHL. Nighbor would win the Stanley Cup again with Ottawa in 1921, 1923, and 1927.\n\nLate in the 1925 season, Lady Byng, wife of the Governor-General of Canada and an avid Senators fan, invited Nighbor to Rideau Hall after a game. She showed Nighbor an ornate trophy and asked him if he thought the NHL would accept it as an award for its most gentlemanly player. Nighbor said he thought it would be a good idea—and to his surprise, Lady Byng presented him the trophy on the spot, making him the first winner of the Lady Byng Trophy. A year earlier, he had been the first winner of the Hart Trophy.\n\nIn 1929–30, Nighbor was traded to Toronto, as part of the fire sale of the failing Senators for Danny Cox and cash. He played 22 games for the Maple Leafs and retired in the off-season.\n\nNighbor was considered a master of the \"sweep check,\" the act of laying the stick down flat on the ice and moving it in wide, circular motions, as well as the \"poke check\", an almost entirely different action, taking the puck off the opponent's stick. He was skilled and crafty with the puck and a good scorer. He impressed with his sportsmanship, inspiring Lady Byng to donate the Lady Byng Trophy in his honour to the \"player adjudged to have exhibited the best type of sportsmanship and gentlemanly conduct combined with a high standard of playing ability.\" and she presented it personally to him.\n\nNighbor coached for the Buffalo Bisons and London Tecumsehs of the International League and the New York Rovers of the Eastern Amateur Hockey League. He would later turn to an insurance business he was a partner in and run it until he became ill. Nighbor died of cancer on April 13, 1966 in Pembroke, Ontario at the age of 73.\n\nNighbor was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1947. He has also been inducted into the Canada Sports Hall of Fame and the Ottawa Sports Hall of Fame. In 1998, he was ranked number 100 on \"The Hockey News\"' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players. In March 2010, at a Quebec auction, an American collector paid $33,000 USD to secure Frank Nighbor's game-worn Ottawa Senators sweater from the 1926–27 season. A street in Ottawa's Kanata neighbourhood is named in memory of Nighbor - \"Frank Nighbor Place.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995702", "title": "Chinese pyramids", "text": "Chinese pyramids\n\nThe term Chinese pyramids refers to pyramidal shaped structures in China, most of which are ancient mausoleums and burial mounds built to house the remains of several early emperors of China and their imperial relatives. About 38 of them are located around – north-west of Xi'an, on the Guanzhong Plains in Shaanxi Province. The most famous is the Mausoleum of the First Qin Emperor, northeast of Xi'an and 1.7 km west of where the Terracotta Warriors were found.\n\nAlthough known in the West for at least a century, their existence has been made controversial by sensationalist publicity in the 20th century.\n\nThe earliest tombs in China are found just north of Beijing in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and in Liaoning. They belong to the Neolithic Hongshan culture (4700 to 2900 BCE).\n\nThe site of Niuheliang in Liaoning contains a pyramidal structure.\n\nIn 1667 the Jesuit Father Athanasius Kircher wrote about Chinese pyramids in his book \"China monumentis Illustrata\".\n\nThe existence of \"pyramids\" in China remained little known in the Western world until the 1910s. They were documented in large numbers around Xian, first in 1912 by the Western traders Fred Meyer Schroder and Oscar Mamen, and also in 1913 by the expedition of Victor Segalen. He wrote about the First Emperor's tomb, and about the other mound tombs in the region in his \"Mission archéologique en Chine (1914): L'art funéraire à l'époque des Han\".\n\nThe introduction of pyramids in China to popular attention came soon after World War II. Many early stories were focused on the existence of a \"Great White Pyramid\" (Maoling). This is the tomb of Emperor Wu of Han (156–87 BCE) located in Xingping, Shaanxi Province.\n\nU.S. Army Air Corps pilot James Gaussman is said to have seen a white jewel-topped pyramid during a flight between India and China during World War II. Colonel Maurice Sheahan, Far Eastern director of the Trans World Airline, gave an eyewitness account of his encounter with a pyramid in the March 28, 1947 edition of \"The New York Times\". A photo of Sheahan's pyramid appeared in \"The New York Sunday News\" on March 30, 1947. This photograph later became attributed to James Gaussman.\n\nChris Maier showed that the pyramid in the photo is the Maoling Mausoleum of Emperor Wu just outside Xi'an. Pseudohistorians, through promoting their theories, have increased western awareness of these pyramids. Hartwig Hausdorf speculated it was built by aliens, and Philip Coppens repeated this theory.\n\nDespite claims to the contrary, the existence of these pyramid-shaped tomb mounds was known by scientists in the West before the publicity caused by the story in 1947. Shortly after the \"New York Times\" story, \"Science News Letter\" (now \"Science News\") published a short item saying: \"The Chinese pyramids of that region are built of mud and dirt and are more like mounds than the pyramids of Egypt, and the region is little travelled. American scientists who have been in the area suggest that the height of , more than twice as high as any of the Egyptian pyramids, may have been exaggerated, because most of the Chinese mounds of that area are built relatively low. The location, reported southwest of Sian, is in an area of great archaeological importance, but few of the pyramids have ever been explored.\"\n\nSome of the pyramids of Xi'an are currently tourist attractions, such as for example the Han Yang Ling Mausoleum of the Western Han Dynasty, and several of them have museums attached to them.\n\n\n\n\n\nMaoling Mausoleum group:\n\nPingling Mausoleum group:\n\nYanling Mausoleum group:\n\nKangling Mausoleum group:\n\nWeiling Mausoleum group:\n\nGroup of two \"tombs of Zhou Kings\" (possibly from Han era):\n\nYiling mausoleum group:\n\nAnling mausoleum group:\n\nChangling mausoleum group:\n\nYangling mausoleum group:\n\nBaling mausoleum group:\n\nDuling mausoleum group:\n\n\n\nThe eighteen mausoleums of the Tang Dynasty emperors (唐十八陵) in the valley of the Wei River north of the Qin Mountains (秦岭). Most are natural hills shaped by man, and they are among the biggest Chinese mausoleums, such as Qianling (乾陵), joint tomb of Emperor Gaozong of Tang and of the Empress Wu Zetian. Some mausoleums feature a burial mound:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995711", "title": "The Jewish Post &amp; News", "text": "The Jewish Post &amp; News\n\nThe Jewish Post & News of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, is Western Canada's first and oldest Anglo-Jewish newspaper, so described because its language was English rather than Yiddish though its concerns were those of the Jewish community.\n\nFounded in 1925, it fought a heated battle with the Winnipeg-based \"Western Jewish News\", another English-language weekly begun a few weeks after \"The Post\" in 1925, and \"Der Yiddishe Vorte\" (\"The Israelite Press\"), a Yiddish-language weekly started in 1911 that for many years was published as a daily. All three served Jewish communities from Northern Ontario to the Rocky Mountains with both news and advertising.\n\n\"The Israelite Press\" reverted to a weekly half-English, half-Yiddish weekly in the early post-Second World War years, finally ceasing publication in 1976.\n\n\"The Western Jewish News\" was founded in 1926 by Sam Berg and engaged in a fierce fight for advertising with the \"Post\" for the next six decades until it was purchased by \"The Jewish Post\" in 1986, resulting in the paper's current name of \"The Jewish Post & News\".\n\n\"The Jewish Post & News\" is owned by Bernie Bellan. He had owned it with his late brother its former editor, Matt Bellan.\n\nIn August 2007, the newspaper changed its publication schedule from weekly to bi-weekly.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995712", "title": "Human trafficking in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Human trafficking in Saudi Arabia\n\nWith respect to human trafficking, Saudi Arabia was designated, together with Bolivia, Ecuador, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Burma, Jamaica, Venezuela, Cambodia, Kuwait, Sudan, Cuba, North Korea, and Togo, as a Tier 3 country by the United States Department of State in its 2005 Trafficking in Persons Report required by the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 on which this article was originally based. Tier 3 countries are \"countries whose governments do not fully comply with the minimum standards and are not making significant efforts to do so.\" The 2006 report shows some effort by the Kingdom to address the problems, but continues to classify the Kingdom as a Tier 3 country. The report recommends, \"The government should enforce existing Islamic laws that forbid the mistreatment of women, children, and laborers...\"\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2 Watchlist\" in 2017.The Government of Saudi Arabia does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so. The government continues to lack adequate anti-trafficking laws, and, despite evidence of widespread trafficking abuses, did not report any criminal prosecutions, convictions, or prison sentences for trafficking crimes committed against foreign domestic workers. The government similarly did not take law enforcement action against trafficking for commercial sexual exploitation in Saudi Arabia, or take any steps to provide victims of sex trafficking with protection. The Saudi government also made no discernable effort to employ procedures to identify and refer victims to protective services.\n\nSaudi Arabia is a destination for men and women from South East Asia and East Africa trafficked for the purpose of labor exploitation, and for children from Yemen, Afghanistan, and Africa trafficking for forced begging. Hundreds of thousands of low-skilled workers from Pakistan, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Kenya migrate voluntarily to Saudi Arabia; some fall into conditions of involuntary servitude, suffering from physical and sexual abuse, non-payment or delayed payment of wages, the withholding of travel documents, restrictions on their freedom of movement and non-consensual contract alterations. According to international organizations such as Ansar Burney Trust, young children from Bangladesh and India are also smuggled to Saudi Arabia to be used as jockeys. The children are underfed to reduce their weights, in order to lighten the load on the camel.\n\nThe Government of Saudi Arabia does not comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is not making significant efforts to do so. Saudi Arabia has moved from Tier 2 to Tier 3 because of its lack of progress in anti-trafficking efforts, particularly its failure to protect victims and prosecute those guilty of involuntary servitude. Despite reports of trafficking and abuses of domestic and other unskilled workers and children, there is evidence of only one Saudi Government prosecution of a Saudi employer for a trafficking-related offense during the reporting period. Some victims of abuse, due to procedural hurdles, choose to leave the country rather than confront their abusers in court. They are required first to file a complaint with the police before they are allowed access to shelters. The government offers no legal aid to foreign victims and does not otherwise assist them in using the Saudi criminal justice system to bring their exploiters to justice. If a victim chooses to file a complaint, he or she is not allowed to work. The Saudi Government does, however, provide food and shelter for female workers who file complaints or run away from their employers. Criminal cases are adjudicated under Sharia law, and there is no evidence trafficking victims are accorded legal assistance before and during Sharia legal proceedings.\n\nThere is limited evidence indicating that the government improved its prosecution efforts in 2004. Saudi Arabia lacks laws criminalizing most trafficking offenses. Most abuses involving foreign workers are dealt with by Islamic law, royal decrees, and ministerial resolutions; few are submitted to criminal prosecution. Domestic workers, which comprise a significant portion of the foreign workforce, are excluded from protection under Saudi labor laws. Most cases involving trafficking or abuse of foreign workers are settled out of court through mediation. In 2004, there were reports of Philippine female domestic workers raped; however, there were no reports of prosecutions. In 2004, the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Labor issued resolutions, among other things, prohibiting trading in work visas, employing and exploiting children, and recruiting for begging. It investigated some cases of abusive employers and instituted a tracking system. To date, 30 abusive employers have been barred from hiring workers. The government provides training for police officers to recognize and handle cases of foreign worker abuse.\n\nThe Saudi Government has not improved its efforts to protect victims of trafficking but continues to operate three shelters for abused female expatriate workers in Riyadh, Jeddah, and Dammam. It also operates facilities for abandoned children, including trafficking victims, in Jeddah, Mecca, and Medina. However, the government does not provide shelter to adult male workers. There are many NGOs working with trafficking victims. The government mediates disputes and alleged abuses of foreign workers — including complaints of a criminal nature — and seeks to return victims to their home countries without adequately investigating and prosecuting crimes committed against them.\n\nSaudi Arabia's limited efforts to prevent trafficking include: distributing information at embassies abroad, licensing and regulating the activities of recruitment agencies, monitoring immigration patterns and visa issuance, and promoting awareness through the media and religious authorities. The government has begun working with UNICEF and the Yemeni Government to prevent trafficking of children for begging. A plan envisioned several years ago to distribute information to foreign workers at Saudi Arabian airports upon arrival has not been implemented. Religious leaders have preached in mosques sermons about the evil of abusing employees.\n\nIn 2008 Saudi controlled media mounted a public relations campaign advocating compassionate treatment of domestic employees and foreign workers. The campaign was controversial with critics complaining that it presented a negative view of Saudi behavior.\n\nSaudi Arabians who travel or reside abroad may be accompanied by servants who are held in servitude. It was reported in June 2005 in \"The Denver Post\" that a Saudi couple who resided in Aurora, Colorado had been accused of keeping their Indonesian maid in captivity for 4 years forcing her to cook and clean. Homaidan Al-Turki, the husband, was also accused of repeatedly raping the young woman. According to law enforcement authorities: the maid's passport had been taken from her; she was paid about $2.00 a day; rapes occurred on a weekly basis. The maid entered the couples service at 17 through an Indonesian employment agency as a domestic worker. She flew to Riyadh and entered their service at a promised pay of $160 a month, but according to prosecutors had received only $3,300 for four years of work. The couple moved to the United States in 2000 accompanied by their maid. The couple was originally charged in federal court with involuntary servitude, punishable in cases involving sexual assault with life in prison. The husband was also charged in state court with multiple counts of sexual assault. The husband was convicted of 12 counts of forced sexual assault, two misdemeanors related to forced imprisonment, and theft for keeping the maid's wages and sentenced to 27 years to life. The case was a high-profile one in Saudi Arabia, where the press portrayed him as a victim of Islamophobia. The Saudi government posted bail of $400,000. In November 2006, Colorado Attorney General John Suthers travelled to Saudi Arabia where he met with King Abdullah and Crown Prince Sultan to clear up \"misperceptions\" about the U.S. judicial system. His trip was sponsored by the US State Department. Al-Turki's wife, Sarah Khonaizan, who plead guilty to reduced state and federal charges, is to be deported from the US. Following the state conviction, federal charges against Al-Turki were dropped.\n\nAnother case involved Princess Buniah Al Saud, niece of Fahd of Saudi Arabia, who was arrested in Orlando, Florida and accused of pushing her Indonesian maid down a flight of stairs. The criminal case was resolved by a plea bargain to misdemeanor assault and payment of a small fine after the maid was refused a visa after traveling to Indonesia to her mother's funeral. The US Department of State has refused to explain their refusal to allow a material witness in a criminal case entry to the United States to testify. A civil suit for wages was settled.\n\nA third allegation involved Hana Al Jader of Boston, Massachusetts who was accused of stealing the passports of 2 Indonesian women and forcing them to work as domestic servants.\n\nA fourth allegiation involved the Saudi Diplomatic Mission in McLean, Virginia, where two persons were removed from the property after notifying locals about their slave-like conditions and abuse at the mansion in May 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995714", "title": "Huang Sheng Shyan", "text": "Huang Sheng Shyan\n\nHuang Sheng Shyan or Huang Xingxian (1910 – December 1992) was born in Minhou County of the Fujian province in Mainland China. He began studying Fujian White Crane with Xie Zhong-Xian at the age of 14. In 1947 he resettled in Taiwan where he became a disciple of Cheng Man-ch'ing. Yang Ch'eng-fu as the grandson of the Yang style founder, had been Cheng Man-Ching’s teacher. Huang committed himself to this tradition for the next 45 years. In 1955 Huang Sheng Shyan along with eight fellow students of Cheng Man-Ching, represented the Shih Chung Association, in the Provincial Chinese Martial Arts Tournament. Huang was adjudged champion in the taijiquan section and runner-up in the open section. Huang emigrated to Singapore in 1956 and then in the 60’s moved to Malaysia, both times with the expressed purpose of propagating the art of taijiquan.\n\nAt the age of 60 Huang Sheng Shyan again demonstrated his abilities in taijiquan by defeating Liao Kuang-Cheng, the Asian champion wrestler 26 throws to 0 in a fund raising event in Kuching Malaysia.\n\nBy the time of his death in December 1992, he had established 40 schools and taught 10,000 people throughout South East Asia. Huang was considered by some to be the most highly achieved student of Zheng Manqing. In Robert W. Smith’s book, \"Chinese Boxing: Masters and Methods\" Smith writes: \"[William] Chen probably climbed higher than any of Cheng Man-Ching’s students, except the converted White Crane boxer Huang Sheng-Hsien (who after learning t’ai chi moved to Singapore and acquired some fame there...)\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1995715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995715", "title": "Damoh", "text": "Damoh\n\nDamoh is a city in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. The city is 80KM away from Sagar Division. It is famous for the Jainism pilgrimage site Kundalpur (Bade Baba Temple). The district is surrounded by Sagar in the West, Narsinghpur and Jabalpur in the South, Chhatarpur in the north, Panna & Katni in the east. It is the administrative headquarters of Damoh District.\n\nStone Age tools have been found in Singrampur Valley and it is believed that the area has been inhabited for thousands of years. According to legend, Damoh was named for the Queen of Narvar Rani Damyanti, the wife of Raja Nal. Around the 5th century, it was part of the empire of Guptas of Pataliputra. This has been evidenced by plaques and coins, and monuments from the reigns of Samudragupta, Chandragupta I, and Skandgupta. From the 8th to 12th centuries, some parts of the Damoh district were in the Chedi Empire, ruled by the Kalchuri dynasty from its capital Tripuri. The temple at Nohta demonstrates Kalchuri's influence in the 10th century. Some regions of the district were under the Chandels of the Jejak-Bhukti. \n\nAround the beginning of the 14th century, the administrative centre of the Chanderi province of the Khalji dynasty was moved to Damoh.\n\nThe era of Muslim rule began in the 14th century. Stone carvings at Salaiya and Batiyagarh mention Khalji and Tuglaq Sultans. The Sultan of Malwa later annexed the region.\n\nIn the last quarter of the 15th century, Sangram Shah of the Gond dynasty annexed the region into his empire organized around 52 forts. This was an era of peace and prosperity for the region. In Singrampur, Rani Durgawati attained martyrdom battling against the Mughal Empire, represented by its General Asaf Khan and his army. \n\nBundelas entered the region for a brief time span, after which Marathas took over in 1732. Marathas remained in control until the British annexed the Marathas kingdom after the death of Peshwa in 1888. The Diwanji ki Talaiya and the Ram Mandir were constructed by the Maratha administrators.\n\nDamoh took part in the struggle for independence from the British. Under the leadership of Thakur Kishore Singh of Hindoria, Raja Devi Singh of Singrampur, Pancham Singh of Karijog, Gangadhar Rao, Raghunath Rao, Mejban Singh, and Govind Rao were among those who took part in the 1857 revolt.\n\nIn 1861, Damoh became part of Central Provinces under the British Empire in India and was demarcated as a separate district. By 1867, Damoh was constituted as a municipality with a population of about two million. The same year it was connected by railway to Jabalpur and Allahabad.\n\nDamoh suffered from famine in 1896-97 and 1900. By 1899 the India Midland Railway had completed the construction of Sagar–Damoh link and Damoh–Katni links. Freedom fighter Seth Govind Das was jailed in Damoh in 1923, and wrote a number of Hindi plays while imprisoned. In 1929, Acharya Shantisagar visited Damoh, the first such visit by a Digambar Muni to Damoh after several centuries.\n\nIn 1933, Mahatma Gandhi visited Damoh. In 1946, Sagar University was established as the region's primary centre for higher education.\n\nIn 1947, with India's independence from British Raj, the Central Provinces were reorganized as the state of Madhya Pradesh. The town of Damoh had its first-degree college established in 1961 by Shiksha Prasar Samiti, a volunteer organization.\n\nDamoh is located at . It is at an average elevation of .\n\nAccording to the 2001 India census, Damoh city had a population of 112,160 (total urban population is 147,661). Males constituted 53% of the population and females 47%. Damoh had an average literacy rate of 73%, above the national average of 59.5%: male literacy was 89% and female literacy was 66%. 14% of the population was under 6 years of age.\n\nDamoh city has a Nagar Paliaka Parishad with the elected head Mrs. Malti Asati. tarun rathi is the current DM & Collector for the Damoh District. The current Member of Legislative Assembly from Damoh constituency is Shri Rahul Singh \n\nThe town has a significant cattle-market and a number of small industries such as weaving, dyeing and pottery-making. The district of Damoh has an area of . To the south and east, foothills and patches of jungle break up the countryside; otherwise the district consists of open plains of varying degrees of fertility, interspersed with low ranges and isolated heights with the richest tracts in the centre.\n\nDamoh is connected by road to Bhopal, Jabalpur, and Saugor.\n\nDamoh Railway Station (code: DMO) is the only railway station in the city. It serves a few trains for Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur, Amritsar, Harda, and Howrah, situated between Katni and Bina Junction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995716", "title": "Harry Oliver (ice hockey)", "text": "Harry Oliver (ice hockey)\n\nHarold \"Pee-Wee\" Oliver (October 26, 1898 – June 16, 1985) was a Canadian ice hockey forward who played for the Calgary Tigers of the Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL) and the Boston Bruins and New York Americans of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was a member of the Tigers' 1924 WCHL championship and won the Stanley Cup with the Bruins in 1929. Oliver played nearly 600 games in a professional career that spanned 16 seasons and scored 217 goals. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1967.\n\nOliver grew up in Selkirk, Manitoba and played both junior and senior hockey with the Selkirk Fishermen. Oliver and the Fishermen won the Manitoba Senior Hockey League in 1919 and challenged the Hamilton Tigers for the Allan Cup. Oliver scored a goal in the second game, but the Fishermen lost the two-game series on total goals, 7–6. He left Selkirk for a professional career in Calgary in 1920. He played one season with the Calgary Canadians of the independent Big-4 League in 1919–20 then moved to the Calgary Tigers and the new Western Canada Hockey League. Oliver quickly established himself as a star player in the WCHL, using his speed and shot to earn positions as a First-Team All-Star in both 1924 and 1925. He was a key member of the Tigers' team that won the 1923–24 WCHL championship, and lost to the Montreal Canadiens for the Stanley Cup.\n\nWhen the WCHL collapsed in 1926, Oliver's rights were bought by the Boston Bruins. His NHL career began on a line with Bill Carson and Percy Galbraith, and he led the Bruins in scoring each of his first three seasons with the team. Oliver scored four goals in a game versus Chicago on January 11, 1927, becoming the first Boston Bruin to attain that feat. He won the Stanley Cup with Boston in 1929 and remained with the organization for eight years. The Bruins sold his rights to the New York Americans in 1934, and Oliver completed his career with three seasons in New York. Well regarded for his gentlemanly nature on the ice, Oliver was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1967, and is an honoured member of the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nFollowing his career, Oliver returned to Selkirk, working first as an electrician, then moved to Winnipeg where he worked for the Weights and Measures Department of the Canadian Government. He died in 1985.\n"}
{"id": "1995718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995718", "title": "Phoronis", "text": "Phoronis\n\nPhoronis is one of the two genera of the horseshoe worm family (Phoronidae), in the phylum Phoronida. The body has two sections, each with its own coelom. There is a specialist feeding structure, the lophophore, which is an extension of the wall of the coelom and is surrounded by tentacles. The gut is U-shaped. The diagnostic feature that distinguishes this genus is the lack of epidermal invagination at the base of the lophophore. These worms are filter feeders.\n\nIts larva is an Actinotrocha.\n\n\"Phronis architecta\" is no longer accepted and is considered to be a synonym of \"Phoronis psammophila\". Similarly \"Phoronis vancouverensis\" is considered to be a synonym of \"Phoronis ijimai\".\n"}
{"id": "1995720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995720", "title": "Strategic entry deterrence", "text": "Strategic entry deterrence\n\nIn business, strategic entry deterrence refers to any action taken by an existing business in a particular market that discourages potential entrants from entering into competition in that market. Such actions, or barriers to entry, can include hostile takeovers, product differentiation through heavy spending on new product development, capacity expansion to achieve lower unit costs, and predatory pricing. Although many barriers to entry are created by incumbents, timing can also act as a barrier to entry, as potential entrants are less likely to enter into a market if it will take a significant amount of time for them to catch up to an incumbent, while they incur costs and lose profit in the process. Barriers to entry are sometimes deemed anti-competitive and can be subject to various competition laws.\n\nIn a particular market an existing firm may be producing a monopoly level of output, and thereby making supernormal profits. This creates an incentive for new firms to enter the market and attempt to capture some of these profits. One way the incumbent can deter entry is to produce a higher quantity at a lower price than the monopoly level, a strategy known as limit pricing. Not only will this reduce the profits being made, making it less attractive for entrants, but it will also mean that the incumbent is meeting more of the market demand, leaving any potential entrant with a much smaller space in the market. Limit pricing will only be an optimal strategy if the smaller profits made by the firm are still greater than those risked if a rival entered the market. It also requires commitment, for example the building of a larger factory to produce the extra capacity, for it to be a credible deterrent.\n\nThe incumbent firm has an advantage of being the \"first mover\" and can therefore act in a way that it knows will influence the entrant's decision. If we assume imperfect knowledge (i.e. the incumbent firm's costs are only known privately) the entrant can only make assumptions about the incumbent's cost structure through its price and output levels. Therefore, the incumbent can use these as a signal to any potential entrant.\n\nOne way of using this advantage to deter entry is to charge a price less than the monopoly level. If an entrant is considering entry in a number of similar markets, a low cost incumbent can signal its efficiency to a potential entrant through lowering prices – thereby discouraging what the entrant believes would be unprofitable entry. Signaling needs to be credible to be effective – a low cost firm must be able to show that it can withstand lower profits for an extended period of time, which it would not be able to if it had higher costs.\n\nAn incumbent who is trying to strategically deter entry can do so by attempting to reduce the entrant's payoff if it were to enter the market. The expected payoffs are obviously dependent on the number of customers the entrant expects to have – therefore one way of deterring entry is for the incumbent to \"tie up\" consumers. \n\nThe strategic creation of brand loyalty can be a barrier to entry – consumers will be less likely to buy the new entrant's product, as they have no experience of it. Entrants may be forced into expensive price cuts simply to get people to try their product, which will obviously be a deterrent to entry. \n\nSimilarly, if the incumbent has a large advertising budget, any new entrant will potentially have to match this in order to raise awareness of their product and a foothold in the market – a large sunk cost that will prevent some firms entering.\n\nMonsanto engaged in preemptive deterrence when it signed contracts with Coke and Pepsi. Because Monsanto locked in the consumers of Coke and Pepsi through its contracts, it made entry into the soda market less desirable because potential entrants would have less consumers and, in turn, less profit. Furthermore, if another firm decided to enter the market and obtain contracts with other soda brands, it would be less likely to attract as many customers as Monsanto because customers are loyal to Coke and Pepsi due to their popularity.\n\nIn a legal sense, a firm is often defined as engaging in predatory pricing if its price is below its short-run marginal cost, often referred to as the Areeda-Turner Law, which forms the basis of US antitrust cases. The rationale for this action is to drive the rival out of the market, and then raise prices once monopoly position is reclaimed. This advertises to other potential entrants that they will encounter the same aggressive response if they enter. According to Luís M. B. Cabral, as long as a potential entrant believes that an incumbent will take action to limit its profits, strategies like predatory pricing can be successful, even if the entrant misreads the situation and the incumbent does not act aggressively towards other entrants. \n\nIn the short run, it would be profit maximizing to acquiesce and share the market with the new entrant. However, this may not be the firm's best response in the long run. Once the incumbent acquiesces to an entrant, it signals to other potential entrants that it is \"weak\" and encourages other entrants. Thus the payoff to fighting the first entrant is also to discourage future entrants by establishing its \"hard\" reputation. One such example occurred when British Airways' engaged in a competition war with Virgin Atlantic throughout the 1980s over its transatlantic route. This led Richard Branson, chair of Virgin Atlantic, to say that competing with British Airways was \"like getting into a bleeding competition with a blood bank.\"\n\nThe threat to fight any potential entrant is credible if its reputation is built up, or it can set up conditions that make it optimal to fight if a rival enters. \n\nIf there are relatively low barriers to exit within a market, an incumbent competing against a more efficient rival may find it optimal to exit the market rather than fight. Hence, one way to make a fighting threat credible is for the incumbent to artificially raise the cost of exit, for example by having high sunk costs. \n\nExamples of this are railroad companies. The high sunk cost of laying a network of railway lines makes it likely that a rail operator will be willing to fight a more costly price war than a rival with lower sunk costs, for example an airline that can switch its aircraft to another route relatively easily. At the extreme, if the incumbents sunk costs are very high, any entry by a rival will end in a mutually destructive outcome.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995723", "title": "Kiki VanDeWeghe", "text": "Kiki VanDeWeghe\n\nErnest Maurice \"Kiki\" VanDeWeghe III (born August 1, 1958) is an American basketball executive. He serves as the Executive Vice President, Basketball Operations of the National Basketball Association (NBA). VanDeWeghe is a retired professional basketball player and was formerly the general manager of the Denver Nuggets and the New Jersey Nets, and a head coach of the Nets.\n\nVanDeWeghe was born in Wiesbaden, West Germany, the son of former NBA player Ernie Vandeweghe and Colleen Kay Hutchins, the winner of the 1952 Miss America pageant. He is also the nephew of another NBA player, four-time All-Star Mel Hutchins. He has a niece, Coco Vandeweghe, who is a professional tennis player. VanDeWeghe and his wife Peggy have one son, Ernest Maurice VanDeWeghe IV, born in 2002.\n\nAs a player, VanDeWeghe was regarded as an excellent scorer and outside shooter, averaging 20 points for seven consecutive seasons. He was particularly known for his use of the stepback, a move he was so proficient at that it was often referred to as the \"Kiki Move\" toward the end of his career. VanDeWeghe's teams qualified for the NBA playoffs in 12 of his 13 seasons in the league, although none of his teams ever won the NBA championship.\n\nFor the bulk of his career, VanDeWeghe spelled his surname \"Vandeweghe\" (with only the V capitalized), a spelling used by his parents before their deaths, and still used by his niece who has a prominent tennis career. In 2013, he announced he was changing the spelling of his name to \"VanDeWeghe\", in honor of his recently departed paternal grandfather and namesake.\n\nVanDeWeghe played four seasons at UCLA, culminating in a senior season in which expectations for the Bruins were lower than in previous seasons. The team was coming off a season in which they lost three starters, David Greenwood, Roy Hamilton, and Brad Holland to the NBA as first-round draft picks. Also, the Bruins had a new coach, Larry Brown, who was coaching a collegiate team for the first time. Replacing this talent were some mainly unknown freshman, namely \"Rocket\" Rod Foster, Michael Holton, and Darren Daye, along with sophomore Mike Sanders. VanDeWeghe and James Wilkes were the lone seniors. The team was sluggish at the first, but gelled toward the end and finished the regular season 17-9. The Bruins, dubbed \"Kiki and the Kids\", were the 48th and final team selected to participate in the 1979–80 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. With VanDeWeghe leading the way, the Bruins made it all the way to the final, upsetting #1 DePaul and Mark Aguirre on the way. In the final, the Bruins lost to the University of Louisville led by Darrell Griffith.\n\nVanDeWeghe was drafted 11th overall in the 1980 NBA draft by the Dallas Mavericks, but refused to play for Dallas and demanded a trade (for virtually the remainder of his career, he was subjected to boos whenever he played in Dallas). He got his wish, and was traded to the Nuggets on December 3 of that same year. As a member of the Nuggets, VanDeWeghe was twice selected to the NBA Western Conference All-Star team, in 1983 and 1984. He was second in scoring in 1983, averaging 26.7 points, and 3rd in 1984 with a career-high 29.4 points.\n\nDuring the 1983–84 Nuggets season, VanDeWeghe scored 50 or more points in two NBA record-setting games. The former game, on December 13, 1983, in which he had a career-high 51 points, is also the highest combined scoring game in NBA history, a 186-184 triple-overtime loss to the Detroit Pistons. VanDeWeghe subsequently had 50 points in another high-scoring game, this one a 163-155 win over the San Antonio Spurs on January 11, 1984 (at the time, the highest combined scoring NBA \"regulation\" game of all time).\n\nIn the summer of 1984, VanDeWeghe was traded to the Portland Trail Blazers in exchange for Calvin Natt, Wayne Cooper, Fat Lever, and two draft picks. VanDeWeghe had several productive seasons in Portland, where he averaged nearly 25 points a game. He paired with Clyde Drexler to form a dynamic scoring duo. However, during the 1987–88 season, VanDeWeghe suffered a back injury and lost his starting job to Jerome Kersey. He was traded the next year to the New York Knicks (where his father played his entire career), with whom he played for several years. He then played half a season with the Los Angeles Clippers before retiring from the league after the 1992–93 season.\n\nVanDeWeghe initially had a front-office role with the Dallas Mavericks, where he was instrumental in the development of Dirk Nowitzki. During his time in Dallas, VanDeWeghe also briefly served as an assistant head coach. On August 9, 2001, VanDeWeghe was named to the Nuggets' general manager position and oversaw a return by the Nuggets to the NBA playoffs. Major moves by VanDeWeghe included the drafting of Carmelo Anthony in 2003, the trade for Marcus Camby in 2002 and the hiring of George Karl as head coach in 2005. However, some other moves by VanDeWeghe backfired outright or failed to produce the desired returns, such as the drafting of draft bust Nikoloz Tskitishvili in 2002 and the sign-and-trade deal with the New Jersey Nets to acquire Kenyon Martin at the end of the 2003–04 season. Shortly following a first-round playoff elimination at the hands of the Clippers in the 2006 playoffs, the Nuggets announced that VanDeWeghe's contract would not be renewed.\n\nHe spent 2006–07 as an NBA analyst for ESPN, appearing on the channel's SportsCenter and NBA Shootaround programs, among others. However, on December 31, 2007, the Nets announced that VanDeWeghe would join the team as a special assistant to team president and general manager Rod Thorn. VanDeWeghe replaced Ed Stefanski, who left the Nets to join the Philadelphia 76ers earlier in the month. Stefanski replaced Billy King as the 76ers' general manager.\n\nOn December 1, 2009, VanDeWeghe agreed to assume duties as interim head coach of the Nets while continuing to be general manager of the team (although assistant coach Tom Barrise served as head coach for their December 2 game). VanDeWeghe replaced Lawrence Frank as head coach after the Nets started the 2009–10 season with 16 consecutive losses. VanDeWeghe hired Del Harris as an assistant, who was to be his \"virtual co-coach\", though he resigned midway through the season on February 2, 2010. Harris resigned after he learned that a possible side deal that he had made with VanDeWeghe to become head coach had failed.\n\nAfter Nets ownership changed hands, Mikhail Prokhorov announced that VanDeWeghe would not return the following season.\n\nVanDeWeghe joined the leadership team of the NBA in 2013, and currently serves as Executive Vice President, Basketball Operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995727", "title": "Gerald Levinson", "text": "Gerald Levinson\n\nGerald Charles Levinson (born June 22, 1951 in Westport, Connecticut) is an American composer of contemporary classical music.\n\nAt university, he studied with George Crumb, Richard Wernick, and George Rochberg. After college, Levinson went to study composition with Olivier Messiaen at the Paris Conservatory. He was inspired by Messiaen's use of birdsong and his unique harmonic ideas, as well as the musics of Bali and India. Levinson has also worked with Simon Rattle, Ralph Shapey, and Seiji Ozawa.\n\nHis notable works include \"Anahata\", Symphony No. 2, and \"Black Magic/White Magic\" (1981), a collaboration with his wife, poet Nanine Valen. Numerous CDs of his music have been released, and his scores are published by Theodore Presser.\n\nHe has taught music at Swarthmore College since 1977. His works have previously been performed by orchestras such as the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Los Angeles Philharmonic. A new work for organ and orchestra by Levinson was premiered by the Philadelphia Orchestra in its 2005-2006 season. He has two children, Adam Valen Levinson, and Ari Valen Levinson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995734", "title": "Hideo Gosha", "text": "Hideo Gosha\n\nBorn in Arasaka, Tokyo Prefecture, Gosha graduated from high school and served in the Imperial Navy during the Second World War. After earning a business degree at Meiji University, he joined Nippon television as a reporter in 1953. In 1957 he moved on to the newly founded Fuji Television and rose through the ranks as a producer and director. One of his television shows, the chambara \"Three Outlaw Samurai\", so impressed the heads of the Shochiku film studio that he was offered the chance to adapt it as a feature film in 1964. Following this film's financial success, he directed a string of equally successful chambara productions through the end of the 1960s. His two most critical and popular successes of the period are \"Goyokin\" and \"Hitokiri\" (also known as \"Tenchu\"), both released in 1969 and both considered to be two of the finest examples of the chambara genre.\n\nDuring the 1970s Gosha abandoned pure chambara and turned his productive energies toward films in the yakuza genre but he still produced period sword films such as \"The Wolves (1971 film)\" (1972), \"Bandits vs. Samurai Squadron\" (1978), and \"Hunter in the Dark\" (1979). His films \"Three Outlaw Samurai\" and \"Sword of the Beast\" (1965) have been released by Criterion.\n\nBy the early 1980s, Gosha began making period films that featured prostitutes as protagonists that were renowned for their realism, violence, and overt sexuality. They were critically panned for those very reasons, but they were also all box office successes. In 1984 he was awarded the Japan Academy Prize for Director of the Year for \"The Geisha\".\n\nGosha’s films have influenced directors including Chang Cheh, Takashi Miike, and Yoshiaki Kawajiri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995741", "title": "Gerry Hitchens", "text": "Gerry Hitchens\n\nGerald Archibald Hitchens (8 October 1934 – 13 April 1983) was an English footballer, who played as a centre forward.\n\nHitchens was born in the village of Rawnsley, Staffordshire, near Cannock, and began his career as a coal miner. He played in Shropshire with Highley Youth Club and Highley Miners Welfare between 1952 and 1953. He appeared in a county cup final for the Miners at Aggborough, the home stadium of local club Kidderminster Harriers. His performance was being watched by the Harriers club secretary Ted Gamson, who went on to offer Hitchens a contract in September 1953. After several seasons in the reserves, Hitchens played fourteen games for the first team, scoring six goals.\n\nDespite interest from West Bromwich Albion and Aston Villa, Hitchens moved to Cardiff City in January 1955 for a fee of £1,500. Hitchens got off to a good start by scoring within three minutes of the kick-off when making his League debut against Wolverhampton Wanderers in April 1955. Hitchens was then playing inside-forward but he subsequently took over the centre-forward berth and was top scorer in the subsequent two seasons.\n\nHitchens moved on to Aston Villa in 1957 for £22,500, where he spent four seasons, scoring 96 goals in 160 appearances.\n\nHe made his debut for England in 1961, scoring after just 90 seconds in an 8–0 drubbing of Mexico, and two weeks later scored twice more in Rome as England beat Italy 3–2.\n\nThis brought him to the attention of Internazionale, who signed him in the summer of 1961 for £85,000.\nHitchens was Internazionale's top scorer with 16 goals in his first season.\n\nHe played for England in the 1962 World Cup in Chile, and won a total of seven caps, scoring five goals. When chosen to appear for England in the World Cup, Hitchens became the first Englishman to represent his country while on the books of a foreign club.\n\nHowever, when Alf Ramsey took over as England manager, Hitchens' international spell came to a halt, Ramsey preferring to pick home-based players.\n\nNevertheless, Hitchens stayed in Italy for nine years, also playing for Torino, Atalanta and Cagliari.\n\nAfter retiring from the professional game in 1971, he played for Worcester City and Merthyr Tydfil before moving to live in Wales, managing an ironworks in Pontypridd before moving north to Holywell, Flintshire, in 1977 to run his brother-in-law's timber supply firm near Prestatyn.\n\nHe died playing in 1983 during a charity football match for a Mold-based firm of solicitors at Castell Alun sports ground in Hope. Seconds after heading a cross over the bar, Hitchens collapsed and was taken to Wrexham General Hospital but pronounced dead on arrival. His ashes were interred in Holywell on 20 April 1983. He was 48.\n\nEngland\n\nCardiff City\n\nAston Villa\n\nInter Milan\n\nTorino\n\n'Cagliari\n\n"}
{"id": "1995743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995743", "title": "Australian National Maritime Museum", "text": "Australian National Maritime Museum\n\nThe Australian National Maritime Museum (ANMM) is a federally operated maritime museum in Darling Harbour, Sydney. After considering the idea of establishing a maritime museum, the federal government announced that a national maritime museum would be constructed at Darling Harbour, tied into the New South Wales state government's redevelopment of the area for the Australian bicentenary in 1988. The museum building was designed by Philip Cox, and although an opening date of 1988 was initially set, construction delays, cost overruns, and disagreements between the state and federal governments over funding responsibility pushed the opening to 1991.\n\nOne of six museums directly operated by the federal government, the ANMM is the only one located outside of the Australian Capital Territory. The museum is structured around seven main galleries, focusing on the discovery of Australia, the relationships between the Australian Aborigines and the water, travel to Australia by sea, the ocean as a resource, water-based relaxation and entertainment, the naval defence of the nation, and the relationship between the United States of America and Australia. The last gallery was funded by the United States government, and is the only national museum gallery in the world funded by a foreign nation. Four additional gallery spaces are used for temporary exhibits. Three museum ships – the HM Bark \"Endeavour\" Replica, the destroyer , and the submarine – are open to the public, while smaller historical vessels berthed outside can be viewed but not boarded.\n\nOf the six museums operated directly by the Federal government (the Australian National Maritime Museum, the Australian War Memorial, the National Museum of Australia, the National Gallery of Australia, the National Portrait Gallery, and Questacon), the Australian National Maritime Museum is the only one located outside the Australian Capital Territory. The museum is administered by the Department of Communications and the Arts on behalf of the Australian Government.\n\nIn June 1985, the federal government announced the establishment of a national museum focusing on Australia's maritime history and the nation's ongoing involvement and dependence on the sea. Proposals for the creation of such a museum had been under consideration over the preceding years. After lobbying by New South Wales Premier Neville Wran, the decision was made to situate the new museum at Darling Harbour, and construct it as part of the area's redevelopment. The building of the ANMM was seen by both the federal and New South Wales State governments as an important feature of the redevelopment, as it would be a major drawcard, and help fuel the commercial success of the precinct.\n\nThe museum building was designed by Philip Cox, Richardson Taylor & Partners. The roof was shaped to invoke the image of billowing sails: the corrugated metal roof stands over tall on the west side, but drops significantly on the east.\n\nDuring development, the museum ran into a series of difficulties. In March 1998, the three top members of the ANMM interim council were sacked by the federal government and replaced. Later in the year, the Department for the Arts informed the museum that its staff would be reduced by 30% and it would undergo budget cuts, forcing the Australian National Maritime Museum to rely on contracted security and conservation staff, along with volunteer guides and attendants. The acceptance of a US$5 million grant for a dedicated gallery showing the links between the US and Australia resulted in the displacement of much of the staff and research areas. Most of these were later established in the nearby Wharf 7 building.\n\nThe museum was initially slated to open in 1988, but by October that year, construction delays had pushed the planned opening date to September 1989, and the project was already $12.5 million over the $30 million budget. Construction was completed on 17 November 1989; the cost of the museum's construction had increased to $70 million, and although the Federal government was willing to pay the initial $30 million, there were disagreements between the state and federal governments over who had to supply the additional $40 million. It was resolved that New South Wales was responsible for the additional funding, and in October 1990, the museum building was handed over to the Federal government. The Australian National Maritime Museum was opened on 30 November 1991.\n\nIn order to achieve commercial sustainability, the Australian National Maritime Museum was directed by the federal government to institute entry fees: the second Australian national museum to do so after Questacon was opened in 1988. The entry fee for the museum itself was dropped in 2004 (although access to the museum ships was still charged), then was re-added in December 2011.\n\nDuring the museum's first ten years of operation, 3.3 million visitors attended.\n\nIn 2010, London's \"The Sunday Times\" listed the Australian National Maritime Museum in its \"World's 10 Coolest Museums\".\n\nAt the start of 2014, the Australian National Maritime Museum announced that it would build a pavilion to showcase exhibits related to the Royal Australian Navy. The pavilion, which is located near the museum's naval vessels, was launched on 8 November 2015 under the name \"Action Stations\".\n\nPermanent exhibitions at the museum are focused around six gallery spaces:\n\nIn addition, there are four other gallery spaces in the museum. The Tasman Light gallery contains the original lenses from the Tasman Island Lighthouse, and is used for temporary photographic exhibitions and as hireable space for functions. The other three galleries (two along the eastern side of the top level, and a third offset from the main body of the museum) are used separately or together to host temporary exhibitions.\n\nOther items on display inside the museum, but not associated with any particular gallery, include \"Spirit of Australia\", the water speed record-holding motorboat, and an anchor from , flagship of the First Fleet.\n\nThe Australian National Maritime Museum's collection of museum ships focuses on three vessels that are open for public inspection: the HM Bark \"Endeavour\" Replica, the destroyer , and the submarine . In addition, the 19th century barque James Craig is moored nearby and can be toured with a museum ticket.\n\nDuring the mid-1980s, it was proposed that a replica of explorer James Cook's ship, HM Bark \"Endeavour\", be constructed for the museum. Funding for construction was initially provided by the Bond Corporation, and construction began at the start of 1988. However, in 1990, the company ran into financial difficulties, and construction was unable to continue until a charitable trust was established in 1991 to complete and operate the replica \"Endeavour\". The vessel was completed in 1994, and spent the next ten years sailing around Australia and the world before ownership was transferred to the Australian National Maritime Museum in 2005.\n\nThe \"Daring\"-class destroyer is the only ship of her class to be preserved, and was the last gun-destroyer to serve in the Royal Australian Navy. \"Vampire\" was commissioned into the RAN in 1959, and served until 1986. The destroyer was loaned to the museum on its opening in 1991, and was transferred completely to museum ownership in 1997. The \"Oberon\"-class submarine was introduced into RAN service in 1969. She was operated until early 1999, and was given to the museum that year. Despite no longer being in naval commission, \"Vampire\" and \"Onslow\" have permission to fly the Australian White Ensign. Prior to \"Onslow\"s acquisition, the former Russian submarine Foxtrot-540 was on display at the museum from 1995 to 1998. The submarine had been purchased in 1994 by a group of Australian businessmen, and was placed on display for the duration of the lease purchase contract, after which the submarine was relocated to California.\n\nOther vessels on display (but not open for public boarding) include:\n\nThe 1874-built Cape Bowling Green Lighthouse, originally located at Cape Bowling Green, near Townsville, Queensland, was relocated to the Australian National Museum site in 1987.\n\nThe Vaughan Evans Library is the research library attached to the ANMM, and is a collecting agency on maritime matters.\n\nThe Welcome Wall is a bronze wall located on the northern side of the museum, which lists the names of immigrants who arrived by sea to settle in Australia. Having a name engraved on the wall requires an application to the museum, and the paying of a fee. As of the end of 2011, the wall contained 24,000 names.\n\nA Harding safety lifeboat and davit is fitted on the water's edge. This lifeboat, of a design commonly used aboard offshore drilling platforms and tanker ships, is used by the Sydney Institute of TAFE for maritime training.\n\nThe Australian Maritime College conducts some postgraduate programs from the precinct.\n\nThe museum has over 1,000 Bardi performance objects known as ilma, but they were still unavailable for public viewing in 2018. The Bardi are an Australian Aboriginal people of the Dampier Peninsula in Western Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995746", "title": "Intu Properties", "text": "Intu Properties\n\nIntu Properties plc, formerly Capital Shopping Centres Group plc, is a British real estate investment trust (REIT), largely focused on shopping centre management and development. Originally named Liberty International plc, it changed its name in May 2010 to that of its major subsidiary, Capital Shopping Centres, after demerging its Capital & Counties Properties business unit to form an independent business. The company renamed itself Intu Properties plc on 18 February 2013, followed by the rebrand of most of its shopping centres under the Intu name from May 2013. The company owns or part-owns 17 shopping centres in the UK and one in Spain. Its shares are listed on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges.\n\nThe company was established by Sir Donald Gordon in 1980 under the name Transatlantic Insurance Holdings plc as an offshoot Liberty Life Association of Africa, a business he had founded in 1957. The company developed into a leading investor in life assurance businesses in the 1980s and divested its remaining life assurance interests (a 29% holding in Sun Life) in 1991. In 1992 it merged with Capital & Counties, a leading shopping centre developer, so securing itself a listing on the London Stock Exchange. It changed its name to Liberty International in 1996 and, after demerging Capital & Counties Properties in May 2010, renamed itself Capital Shopping Centres Group (CSC).\n\nThe company also disposed of a significant holding in its Californian subsidiary Capital and Counties USA, which was acquired by Equity One in May 2010. Equity One was later acquired by Regency Centers Corporation.\n\nIn 2011, CSC purchased the Trafford Centre from The Peel Group and offered a 20% stake in CSC to Peel chairman John Whittaker. The 20% stake in CSC was worth approximately £700m at the time, thus valuing the Trafford Centre at approximately £1.65 billion. Whittaker continued to purchase shares after the takeover and became the largest shareholder in 2012, with a stake of 24.63%.\nCSC purchased the Westfield Group's 75% stake in Westfield Broadmarsh in Nottingham in November 2011.\n\nIn January 2013, CSC announced its rebranding as Intu and the renaming of twelve of its shopping centres to incorporate the new consumer-facing brand. A new orange and black brand identity was introduced at the same time, including a bird logo said to represent a \"symbol of joy\". At the same time and in response to changing consumer behaviour, Intu launched the UK's first online shopping centre and insourced all shopping centre staff, previously employed by facilities management company Bilfinger Europa.\nThe company announced on 27 February 2013 that it had agreed to purchase Midsummer Place in Milton Keynes (now Intu Milton Keynes) from Legal & General for £250.5 million. The sale was completed by the end of March 2013.\n\nIn March 2014, Intu announced that it had purchased the Merry Hill Centre (now Intu Merry Hill) and Westfield Derby (now Intu Derby) for a £867.8m property deal that saw Intu take complete ownership of Westfield's Derby shopping centre and Sprucefield Park in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn December 2017, the company agreed to a takeover by property development company Hammerson for £3.4 billion, subject to shareholder approval. In April 2018, Hammerson recommended its shareholders reject the proposed takeover. With Intu hit by declining footfall on the high street and failures among major retailers, Peel Group, Olayan Group, and Brookfield Property launched a £2.8bn takeover bid in October, but, after due diligence procedures, they withdrew the offer in November 2018.\n\nIn November 2019, Intu said it was in talks to sell three Spanish shopping centres: Puerto Venecia in Zaragoza, intu Asturias in Oviedo, and intu Xanadu in Madrid. In December 2019, it sold its share in Zaragoza asset for 237.7 million Euros, delivering net proceeds of around 115m Euros. The following month it sold its Oviedo asset, raising around €85 million.\n\nIn March 2020, Intu abandoned a £1.3 billion emergency cash call as not enough investors were willing to support the call. The company had £4.5 billion of debt. The company subsequently warned it could collapse if unable to raise further funds, after reporting a loss of £2bn for 2019. Intu shares had lost almost 90% of their value in a year, and the results announcement prompted a 25% drop to just over 4p. On 26 March, as the COVID-19 pandemic prompted more retailers to delay rent payments to Intu, the company warned it would need some waivers from its lenders and was likely to breach its debt covenants in July; its shares fell 11% to 3.6p in the first hour of trading following the warning.\n\nAs of 31 December 2019 the company's investment properties were valued at £5.9 billion. Intu owns or part-owns 17 shopping centres in the UK:\n"}
{"id": "1995749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995749", "title": "International Chemical Identifier", "text": "International Chemical Identifier\n\nThe IUPAC International Chemical Identifier (InChI or ) is a textual identifier for chemical substances, designed to provide a standard way to encode molecular information and to facilitate the search for such information in databases and on the web. Initially developed by IUPAC (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry) and NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) from 2000 to 2005, the format and algorithms are non-proprietary.\n\nThe continuing development of the standard has been supported since 2010 by the not-for-profit InChI Trust, of which IUPAC is a member. The current software version is 1.05 and was released in January 2017.\n\nPrior to 1.04, the software was freely available under the open-source LGPL license,\nbut it now uses a custom license called IUPAC-InChI Trust License.\n\nThe identifiers describe chemical substances in terms of \"layers\" of information — the atoms and their bond connectivity, tautomeric information, isotope information, stereochemistry, and electronic charge information.\nNot all layers have to be provided; for instance, the tautomer layer can be omitted if that type of information is not relevant to the particular application.\n\nInChIs differ from the widely used CAS registry numbers in three respects: 1) they are freely usable and non-proprietary; 2)they can be computed from structural information and do not have to be assigned by some organization; and 3) most of the information in an InChI is human readable (with practice).\n\nInChIs can thus be seen as akin to a general and extremely formalized version of IUPAC names. They can express more information than the simpler SMILES notation and differ in that every structure has a unique InChI string, which is important in database applications. Information about the 3-dimensional coordinates of atoms is not represented in InChI; for this purpose a format such as PDB can be used.\n\nThe InChI algorithm converts input structural information into a unique InChI identifier in a three-step process: normalization (to remove redundant information), canonicalization (to generate a unique number label for each atom), and serialization (to give a string of characters).\n\nThe InChIKey, sometimes referred to as a hashed InChI, is a fixed length (27 character) condensed digital representation of the InChI that is not human-understandable. The InChIKey specification was released in September 2007 in order to facilitate web searches for chemical compounds, since these were problematic with the full-length InChI. Unlike the InChI, the InChIKey is not unique: though collisions can be calculated to be very rare, they happen.\n\nIn January 2009 the final 1.02 version of the InChI software was released. This provided a means to generate so called standard InChI, which does not allow for user selectable options in dealing with the stereochemistry and tautomeric layers of the InChI string. The standard InChIKey is then the hashed version of the standard InChI string. The standard InChI will simplify comparison of InChI strings and keys generated by different groups, and subsequently accessed via diverse sources such as databases and web resources.\n\nEvery InChI starts with the string \"InChI=\" followed by the version number, currently 1. This is followed by the letter S for standard InChIs, which is a fully standardized InChI flavor maintaining the same level of attention to structure details and the same conventions for drawing perception. The remaining information is structured as a sequence of layers and sub-layers, with each layer providing one specific type of information. The layers and sub-layers are separated by the delimiter \"/\" and start with a characteristic prefix letter (except for the chemical formula sub-layer of the main layer). The six layers with important sublayers are:\n\n\nThe delimiter-prefix format has the advantage that a user can easily use a wildcard search to find identifiers that match only in certain layers.\n\nThe condensed, 27 character InChIKey is a hashed version of the full InChI (using the SHA-256 algorithm), designed to allow for easy web searches of chemical compounds. The standard InChIKey is the hashed counterpart of standard InChI. Most chemical structures on the Web up to 2007 have been represented as GIF files, which are not searchable for chemical content. The full InChI turned out to be too lengthy for easy searching, and therefore the InChIKey was developed. There is a very small, but nonzero chance of two different molecules having the same InChIKey, but the probability for duplication of only the first 14 characters has been estimated as only one duplication in 75 databases each containing one billion unique structures. With all databases currently having below 50 million structures, such duplication appears unlikely at present. A recent study more extensively studies the collision rate finding that the experimental collision rate is in agreement with the theoretical expectations.\n\nInChIKey consists of hyphen-separated three parts, of 14, 10 and one character(s), respectively, like codice_1. The first 14 characters result from a hash of the connectivity information of the InChI. The second part consists of 8 characters resulting from a hash of the remaining layers of the InChI, a single character indicating the kind of InChIKey and a single character indicating the version of InChI used. At last, a single character indicates protonation.\n\nMorphine has the structure shown on the right. The standard InChI for morphine is codice_2\nand the standard InChIKey for morphine is codice_3.\n\nAs the InChI cannot be reconstructed from the InChIKey, an InChIKey always needs to be linked to the original InChI to get back to the original structure. InChI Resolvers act as a lookup service to make these links, and prototype services are available from National Cancer Institute, the UniChem service at the European Bioinformatics Institute, and PubChem. ChemSpider has had a resolver until July 2015 when it was decommissioned.\n\nThe format was originally called IChI (IUPAC Chemical Identifier), then renamed in July 2004 to INChI (IUPAC-NIST Chemical Identifier), and renamed again in November 2004 to InChI (IUPAC International Chemical Identifier), a trademark of IUPAC.\n\nScientific direction of the InChI standard is carried out by the IUPAC Division VIII Subcommittee, and funding of subgroups investigating and defining the expansion of the standard is carried out by both IUPAC and the InChI Trust. The InChI Trust funds the development, testing and documentation of the InChI. Current extensions are being defined to handle polymers and mixtures, Markush structures, reactions and organometallics, and once accepted by the Division VIII Subcommittee will be added to the algorithm.\n\nThe InChI has been adopted by many larger and smaller databases, including ChemSpider, ChEMBL, Golm Metabolome Database, OpenPHACTS, and PubChem. However, the adoption is not straightforward, and many databases show a discrepancy between the chemical structures and the InChI they contain, which is a problem for linking databases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995759", "title": "Richard Armstrong (British Army officer)", "text": "Richard Armstrong (British Army officer)\n\nLieutenant-General Sir Richard Armstrong, KCB (c. 1782 – 3 March 1854) was an officer in the British army.\n\nArmstrong was the only son of Lt.-Col. Richard Armstrong of Lincoln. Armstrong was commissioned as an ensign in 1796. He served in the Peninsular War and in the First Anglo-Burmese War. He became commander of the British forces in Canada West in 1842 and, after serving in that post until 1848, went on to be Commander-in-Chief of the Madras Army in 1851. He resigned due to poor health in early 1854 and died shortly afterwards. He was also colonel of the 95th Regiment of Foot and then colonel of the 32nd Regiment of Foot.\n"}
{"id": "1995760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995760", "title": "Electoral division of Braitling", "text": "Electoral division of Braitling\n\nBraitling is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in Australia's Northern Territory. It was created in 1983, when the electorate of Alice Springs was abolished as part of an enlargement of the Assembly. Braitling is an almost entirely urban electorate, covering 60 km² in north-western Alice Springs. The electorate takes its name from the Braitling family, an early pioneering family in the district. There were 4,687 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2012.\n\nThe city of Alice Springs has, along with the Darwin satellite city of Palmerston, traditionally been one of two conservative bastions in the Northern Territory. For most of its first three decades, Braitling was a comfortably safe seat for the Country Liberal Party. The seat's first member, Roger Vale, transferred here after his former electorate of Stuart was made somewhat less friendly for the CLP. Indeed, Braitling included most of the Alice Springs share of the old Stuart. Vale retired in 1994 and handed the seat to Loraine Braham of the CLP. Braham, who served as Speaker and later a cabinet minister, was stripped of her CLP preselection before the 2001 election amid accusations of branch-stacking. She won re-election as an independent, and was narrowly re-elected in a very close race against the CLP in 2005. Braham opted to retire at the 2008 election, and Adam Giles won the seat back for the CLP, reverting it to its traditional status as a comfortably safe CLP seat. Giles became the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory in March 2013.\n\nAlthough opinion polls and commentators had already universally written off the CLP government both before and during the 2016 election campaign, there was no suggestion that Giles was in any danger in his own seat. He sat on a seemingly insurmountable margin of 19.6 percent, and Labor had never come close to winning the seat. Even during the Labor landslide of 2005, Labor was pushed into third place. However, in a result not foreseen by any commentators, let alone either party, Labor challenger Dale Wakefield narrowly led Giles on election night. Ultimately, Wakefield defeated Giles by a knife-edge margin of 27 votes. Not only is Wakefield just the second challenger to unseat a sitting Chief Minister/Majority Leader in their own seat and the third challenger to oust a major-party leader in the Territory, she is also the first Labor member to represent an Alice Springs seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995763", "title": "Command Post Tango", "text": "Command Post Tango\n\nCommand Post TANGO is a United States military bunker complex in South Korea. It is the Theater Command Post for the Combatant Commander, UNC/CFC/USFK and State Department Korea and can reportedly withstand a tactical nuclear weapon through the use of several layers of blast doors. It is located in South Korea.\n\nCondoleezza Rice visited the bunker in her March 2005 trip to six Asian nations as well as the President of South Korea Lee Myung-Bak. Lee Myung-Bak also visited the bunker in August 2008.\n\nNumerous outer resources of this facility include a water treatment operations center, living quarters, several helicopter landing zones, container storage area, equipment and facility supply storage area, operations location for fire department, Emergency Response Center, and other structures including buildings for external armed security personnel, Directorate of Public Works personnel, Korean Service Corps personnel, Installation Facility Management, communications personnel, and a live fire range with range personnel.\n\nTANGO stands for \"Theater Air Naval Ground Operations Center\". The Command Post was built right after the Korean War, and is one of several Command Posts scattered across the globe in Europe, America, Hawaii and the far east. The bunker is set to be given to the ROK Army as American forces pull back to Camp Humphreys.\n\nCoordinates: \n"}
{"id": "1995766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995766", "title": "Maude Maggart", "text": "Maude Maggart\n\nMaude Maggart (born February 24, 1975) is an American cabaret singer and recording artist who performs throughout the United States and Europe, but most often in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and New York City.\n\nMaggart was born in New York City to Broadway veterans Brandon Maggart and Diane McAfee and is the sister of singer/songwriter Fiona Apple. At the age of twenty, she changed her stage name to Maude after her paternal great-grandmother, Maude Apple.\n\nMaggart's brother, Garett Maggart, starred in the TV series \"The Sentinel\". In addition, her maternal grandparents were Millicent Greene, a dancer with the George White's Scandals, a series of 1920s musical revues similar to the Ziegfeld Follies, and Johnny McAfee, a multireedist and vocalist of the big band era. Her grandparents met while touring with Johnny Hamp and his Orchestra. She went to the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, in New York City. Her 2001 cabaret debut in Los Angeles prompted critic Les Traub to write that she is \"destined to become a major cabaret star.\"\n\nShe has been described as a \"strikingly beautiful and poised performer,\" and has been widely praised for her vocal talent, her intelligent, emotional, witty interpretations, as well as for her taste in song selection primarily from the American popular song book featuring the works of Irving Berlin, George Gershwin, Jerome Kern, Harold Arlen, Johnny Mercer, Vernon Duke, and Rodgers and Hart. She has paid vocal tribute in her concerts to such popular singers and predecessors as Helen Morgan, Annette Hanshaw, Ruth Etting, Alice Faye, Helen Forrest and lyricist Marshall Barer. Her 2006 concerts have featured established standards as well as exquisite renditions of songs by Jackson Browne and Joan Baez.\n\nHer first album \"Look For the Silver Lining\" focuses on songs of the 1920s. The selections on her second album, \"With Sweet Despair\", range in era and style. Her third album features a repertoire of standards and unearthed gems and is titled \"Maude Maggart Sings Irving Berlin\", which included \"When I Lost You,\" Maggart's rendition of which is featured in the movie \"Spike\". In 2007 she released \"Maude Maggart Live\". Her latest recording is a collaboration with Brent Spiner, entitled \"Dreamland\".\n\nEmbraced as a protégée and colleague of such other performers as Michael Feinstein and Andrea Marcovicci, she has been profiled on National Public Radio, in the \"New York Times\" and \"Time Out New York\" and has appeared on such shows as \"Prairie Home Companion\". In 2005, she received the Backstage Ira Eaker Award, The Tony Award for Outstanding Achievement in Cabaret and the Manhattan Association of Cabarets and Clubs (M.A.C.) award for Best Female Debut. She has performed regularly at the Oak Room of the Algonquin Hotel in New York, the Gardenia in Hollywood and the Plush Room in San Francisco.\n\n\nEach Maude Maggart show has a theme running through the show. The songs are put together to tell a story from the beginning of the evening to the end.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995770", "title": "Dorothy Payne Whitney", "text": "Dorothy Payne Whitney\n\nDorothy Payne Whitney Elmhirst (January 23, 1887 – December 14, 1968) was an American-born social activist, philanthropist, publisher and a member of the prominent Whitney family.\n\nWhitney was born in Washington, D.C., the daughter of Flora (née Payne) and William Collins Whitney, the United States Secretary of the Navy during the first Cleveland administration from 1885 through 1889. Flora was the daughter of Senator Henry B. Payne of Ohio and sister of Colonel Oliver Hazard Payne, later treasurer of the Standard Oil Company. She attended the Chapin School. At age 17, she came into a major inheritance, approximately $15,000,000 (equivalent to $ in dollars), following the death of her extremely wealthy father.\n\nOne of the wealthiest women in America in the early 20th century, Dorothy Whitney Straight was a philanthropist and social activist who supported women's trade unions and educational and charitable organizations such as the Junior League of New York. She became the first president of the Association of Junior Leagues International in 1921. Together with her husband, she founded the weekly magazine \"The New Republic\" and the New School for Social Research in New York City.\n\nRecords of Dorothy Payne Whitney in New York City reveal the extent of her philanthropic work. She was a benefactor of the arts, feminist, and pacifist causes, as well as social and labour reform. She lent financial support to progressive alternative education plus scholarly research. In 1937, she created the William C. Whitney Foundation in her father's name.\n\nHer first marriage in 1911 was to Willard Dickerman Straight (1880–1918), the son of Henry H. Straight, from Oswego, New York, who went to Cornell University and by the age of 30 was a powerful man amongst the international community trading in Peking, China. Together, they had three children:\n\nStraight died at the age of 38 of influenza during the 1918 pandemic while serving with the United States Army in France during World War I. Straight's will requested his wife to continue his philanthropic work in support of Cornell and in 1925 she built Willard Straight Hall, a student union building dedicated to her late husband's memory.\n\nIn 1920, she met Leonard Knight Elmhirst (1893–1974), an Englishman from a Yorkshire landowning family, who was then studying agriculture at Cornell University, and was seeking support for Cornell's Cosmopolitan Club which provided amenities for foreign students. They married in April 1925, and embarked on ambitious plans to recreate rural community life at Dartington Hall in Devon. Together, they had two children:\n\nAt Dartington she led the artistic developments, founding Dartington College of Arts and Dartington International Summer School — although she and Leonard also continued their worldwide interests. On April 26, 1935, she renounced her United States citizenship.\n\nDorothy Payne Whitney Elmhirst died on December 14, 1968.\n\nDorothy was known for building the Willard Straight Hall at Cornell University, founding \"The New Republic\", founding New School for Social Research, being the founding president of Association of Junior Leagues International, founding the William C. Whitney Foundation, renovating Dartington Hall and its gardens, founding the Dartington Hall Trust, founding the Dartington Hall School, founding the Dartington College of Arts, and hosting the Dartington International Summer School from 1953.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995774", "title": "John Lackey", "text": "John Lackey\n\nJohn Derran Lackey (born October 23, 1978) is an American former professional baseball starting pitcher who played in Major League Baseball from 2002 through 2017 for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Boston Red Sox, St. Louis Cardinals and Chicago Cubs. A three-time World Series champion, Lackey is regarded as a key figure in his clubs' postseason success, winning the title-clinching games of two out of the three Series. Selected to the MLB All-Star Game in 2007, he won that year's American League (AL) earned run average (ERA) title. After missing the 2012 season due to ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction surgery in his pitching elbow, and helping the Red Sox win the 2013 World Series, Lackey was named the winner of the Tony Conigliaro Award.\n\nA right-handed pitcher and batter, the Anaheim Angels selected Lackey from Grayson County College in Texas in the 1999 amateur draft. He made his MLB debut with the Angels in 2002 and helped the franchise win its first World Series title that year. After winning more than 100 games with the Angels, Lackey signed with Boston in free agency prior to the 2010 season. Declining performance and elbow injuries in 2011 led him to allow the most earned runs in the American League before missing the next season due to elbow surgery. Lackey rebounded in 2013 to win his second championship. Boston traded him to St. Louis in July 2014, and prior to the 2016 season, he signed with Chicago as a free agent. Lackey earned his third World Series championship in 2016 with the Cubs. \n\nKnown for his intense competitiveness and overall durability, Lackey reached at least 200 innings pitched six times in his career, and in five seasons was in the top ten in games started. With the exception of his rookie season in 2002, he reached at least 10 wins every season of his career. In ten of his 15 seasons, he registered an ERA below 4.00 − once below 3.00 − and four times was in the top ten in ERA. He also twice reached the top ten in both wins and strikeouts. He appeared in ten postseasons overall, recording a career 8-6 record and 3.44 ERA over 144 innings. In 2007 and 2015, he received votes for the Cy Young Award.\n\nLackey was born in Abilene, Texas to Derran and Sharon Lackey. Before Lackey was in high school, he played at Dixie Little League in Abilene. Lackey attended Abilene High School, and was a letterman in football, basketball, and baseball. In baseball, he was a two-time first team All-District honoree and as a senior, he was also an All-State selection.\n\nHe played one season of baseball at the University of Texas at Arlington (UTA), playing first base and sometimes moonlighting as a relief pitcher. The first summer after attending UTA, Lackey first learned to pitch in the Kansas Jayhawk Summer League. In , he played on the Junior College World Series champion Grayson County College team in Denison, Texas, which went 50–13. In 100 innings pitched (IP), he posted a 10–3 record with a 4.23 earned run average (ERA) and 88 strikeouts. At the plate, he batted .428 with 15 home runs (HR) and 81 runs batted in (RBI). In the World Series, he tallied eight hits, two HR, and seven RBI.\n\nThe Anaheim Angels selected Lackey in the second round of the 1999 Major League Baseball draft as the 68th overall. He began his professional career with the Boise Hawks in the Short Season Class A Northwest League, posting a 6–2 record and a 4.98 ERA. Already in his first year, Lackey became known for his competitiveness. According to MLB.com, Tom Kotchman, the veteran manager, recalled \"one particular game when he tried to replace Lackey only to have the tall Texan tell him otherwise. Sure enough, Kotchman trotted back to the dugout and Lackey kept dominating, as if to say, 'See? I'm not done yet.'\"\n\nIn , Lackey split his time between the Single-A Cedar Rapids Kernels, High-A Lake Elsinore Storm, and Double-A Erie SeaWolves. Because of his quick ascent up the minor league ladder, he was named the Angels' Minor League Pitcher of the Year, posting a combined 15–9 record with a 3.15 ERA. He began with Double-A Arkansas before being promoted in July of that year to the Triple-A Salt Lake Bees, where he struggled a bit, posting a 3–4 record and a 6.71 ERA. He recovered in the season, being named Best Pitching Prospect of the Pacific Coast League and accumulating an 8–2 record with a 2.57 ERA.\n\nThe Angels called Lackey up to the major leagues on June 24, 2002, dropping his first major league start against the Texas Rangers. He was optioned back to Salt Lake, only to be recalled on June 28 to replace pitcher Al Levine. Two days later, he replaced Scott Schoeneweis in the Angels' rotation and gained his first victory against the cross-town rival Los Angeles Dodgers. Lackey was also the winning pitcher for the American League (AL) Wild Card-clinching victory against Texas on September 26.\n\nWith the AL Wild Card in hand, the Angels began their march through the 2002 postseason, facing the New York Yankees in the American League Division Series (ALDS). He made his relief and postseason debut in Game 3, allowing two earned runs in the midst of an Angels rally to win 9–6. He gained his first postseason victory against the Minnesota Twins in Game 4 of the American League Championship Series (ALCS), pitching seven innings while allowing only three hits and striking out seven.\n\nWith their victory in five games over the Twins, the Angels earned their first AL pennant and trip to the World Series. After starter Kevin Appier was pulled after two-plus innings in Game 2, Lackey pitched two innings giving up two earned runs on two hits, receiving a no-decision in the eventual 11–10 Angel victory over the San Francisco Giants. He started Game 4 of the Series, pitching four scoreless innings, but gaining a no-decision after allowing three hits and three earned runs in the 5th inning in the eventual Angels loss.\n\nHowever, in Game 7 of the World Series on October 27, 2002, Lackey allowed one earned run on four hits while striking out four in five innings, allowing the Angels to hold an early 4–1 lead to hand over to their bullpen trio of Brendan Donnelly, Francisco Rodríguez, and Troy Percival to seal their World Series title. Lackey became only the second rookie in World Series history to start and win Game 7, the other being Babe Adams of the Pittsburgh Pirates. It was the first of two Series title-clinching games in which he received credit as the winning pitcher.\n\nMike Scioscia announced that Lackey would start on Opening Day 2003, replacing injured ace Jarrod Washburn. Lackey struggled his sophomore year, compiling a 10–16 record with a 4.63 ERA while leading the team in hits and earned runs allowed, and wild pitches. He finished with a record of 14–13 and a 4.67 ERA, helping the Angels win their first division title since . The campaign saw Lackey mature further, working into the sixth inning in 30 of his 36 starts, earning a 14–5 record with a 3.44 ERA. He ranked second in strikeouts per nine innings (with 8.6 K/9 IP) and third in strikeouts (199). However, he finished with the third most wild pitches in the league.\n\nHe participated in the MLB 2006 All-Star Series in Japan. After the Angels placed 2005 Cy Young winner Bartolo Colón on the disabled list in , Lackey emerged as the team's ace, and skipper Mike Scioscia made him the number one starter after the All-Star break. On July 7, 2006, Lackey retired 27 consecutive batters after Mark Kotsay of the Oakland Athletics led off the first inning with double. He threw a career high 30 scoreless innings from July 2 through July 19, 2006, when he gave up a fifth-inning home run to Ben Broussard of the Cleveland Indians, leaving his scoreless streak 5 innings short of the club record, set by Jim McGlothlin in 1967. He was later named American League Pitcher of the Month for July 2006.\n\nOn June 13, , Lackey became the first pitcher to win 10 games for the 2007 season. On July 1, Lackey was named as one of three Angels to represent the club and the American League at the 2007 All-Star Game. Lackey finished the 2007 season with an American League leading 3.01 ERA. He finished in third place for that season's Cy Young Award voting.\n\nOn July 10, , Lackey allowed six runs on 15 hits in 5 innings. The 15 hits tied an all-time Angels' franchise record for hits allowed by a starter in a single game.\n\nOn July 18, 2008, Lackey recorded his 1000th career strikeout, against Kevin Youkilis of the Boston Red Sox. Lackey was the sixth Angels pitcher to accomplish that feat. On July 29, 2008, Lackey pitched against the Red Sox at Fenway Park, carrying a no-hitter into the ninth inning. He came within two outs of a no-hitter before Dustin Pedroia singled to left to spoil it. The next batter, Youkilis, hit a two-run homer to break up the shutout. Lackey still finished the game and the Angels won 6–2.\n\nIn Game 1 of the 2008 ALDS, he gave up a two-run home run to Jason Bay of the Red Sox, and was charged with the Angels' first loss in the series.\n\nIn his first start of 2009, on May 16, Lackey was ejected after his first two pitches of the season in a game against the Texas Rangers. Lackey threw his first pitch behind Ian Kinsler's head, and hit Kinsler in the side with his second pitch. Home plate umpire Bob Davidson immediately ejected Lackey. Since Kinsler scored, Lackey was charged with an earned run, giving him an ERA of infinity. Kinsler had hit two home runs against the Angels the night before.\n\nOn August 30, 2009, Lackey earned his 100th career win against the Oakland Athletics, giving up one run (on an error by shortstop Erick Aybar) through eight innings.\n\nLackey is one of only six major league pitchers who won at least 11 games in each year from 2004 to 2009, the others being CC Sabathia, Derek Lowe, Johan Santana, Javier Vázquez, and Jason Marquis.\n\nAt the end of the 2009 season Lackey became a free agent, widely regarded as the best free agent starting pitcher on the 2010 market. \"Baseball Prospectus\" declared, \"Lackey stands alone as the best of the best, a relatively young righty who carries significantly less risk than the other high-upside hurlers\", additionally noting he faced a tough division and tougher league and his statistics would likely be even better if he were a National League pitcher. As one of the top free agent starters on the market, he was predicted to command a deal worth around $70 to $80 million, similar to the deal A. J. Burnett received from the Yankees. Lackey drew interest from many teams, including the Seattle Mariners, the Milwaukee Brewers, the New York Yankees, the New York Mets, the Boston Red Sox, and the Pittsburgh Pirates. He formally declined the Angels' offer of salary arbitration on December 8.\n\nOn December 16, 2009, Lackey officially signed a five-year contract worth $82.5 million with the Boston Red Sox. His contract had a clause where if he missed a full season due to injury, the Red Sox would have a team option at the end of the contract worth the league minimum. On April 7, 2010 Lackey made his debut for Boston at Fenway Park against the Yankees, pitching six innings of three-hit, shutout ball.\n\nLackey posted a 10–5 record and a 4.26 ERA during the first half of the 2010 season and finished his first season with the Red Sox with a 14–11 record, 4.40 ERA over 215 innings pitched.\n\nLackey went 2–5 with an 8.01 ERA in his first seven starts, and in May, he was placed on the disabled list with an elbow strain in his throwing arm. Lackey returned shortly, recording an ERA over 5.00 in every month but one. In 28 starts, Lackey finished the season 12–12 with a 6.41 ERA and 1.62 WHIP, both career worsts. The 114 earned runs he allowed were the most in the American League, and his ERA was the highest in Red Sox history for a starter with at least 150 innings pitched. In the end of the 2011 season, Lackey and two more starting pitchers (Josh Beckett and Jon Lester, allegedly) were in the center of a controversy that told that the three (and sometimes more) drank beers and ate fried chicken in the clubhouse during games in which they were not pitching.\n\nDuring a press conference, Ben Cherington, the new GM of the Boston Red Sox, revealed that John Lackey had Tommy John surgery during the 2011 offseason. As a result, Lackey did not pitch for the entire season. Lackey was later seen drinking beer in the clubhouse during his rehabilitation, causing further controversy.\n\nOn April 6, Lackey injured his arm in his first start since September 2011. The Red Sox announced it was a right biceps strain. On April 28, Lackey got his first win since the 2011 season, going six innings, giving up one run and five hits in a 6-1 win over the Houston Astros.\n\nOn October 30, Lackey was the winning pitcher in Game 6 of the 2013 World Series, which clinched the Boston Red Sox' eighth World Series title. In doing so, Lackey became the first starting pitcher in Major League history to win two World Series \"clinching\" games with two different teams. Lackey garnered much media attention by his refusal to leave the game when Manager John Farrell came to the mound with two outs in the seventh inning, telling Farrell \"this is my guy\" (referring to the next batter, Matt Holliday). Farrell allowed Lackey to stay in the game, but he eventually walked Holliday to load the bases. Lackey exited to a standing ovation from Fenway Park.\n\nMany credited Lackey's turnaround as a major reason for the Red Sox' success in 2013, especially at mid-season when Clay Buchholz went on the disabled list and Jon Lester was going through a rough stretch. Lackey finished 2013 with a 10-13 record and a 3.52 ERA. He was plagued by a lack of run support throughout the season, but threw two complete games, the first time in a season that he had multiple complete games since 2008.\n\nAfter the season, Lackey was awarded with the Tony Conigliaro Award, an award given out to the player who has overcome the most adversity.\n\nLackey began the 2014 season as the Red Sox' number-two starter behind Lester. He made six starts in April, with four being quality starts, and two giving up six runs in less than six innings. Dating back to the previous May 23, he had thrown six straight quality starts, going 3-1 with a 1.60 ERA and 34 strikeouts.\n\nOn July 5, Orioles designated hitter Nelson Cruz went 3-for-3 with a double off of Lackey. Cruz had served a 50-game suspension for his involvement in the Biogenesis baseball scandal the previous season, which Cruz claimed he had sought help from Biogenesis of American to fight a gastrointestinal infection. After the Cruz' big game, Lackey stated, \"I'm not going to comment on him. I've got nothing to say about him. There are some things I would like to say but I'm not going to. You guys forget pretty conveniently about stuff.\" Orioles manager Buck Showalter countered by saying, \"Considering the timing of things, it's one of those things that you keep quiet about it and it reflects poorly upon the person who said it.\"\n\nOn July 31, 2014, the Red Sox traded Lackey with minor league pitcher Corey Littrell to the St. Louis Cardinals for outfielder Allen Craig and pitcher Joe Kelly. In his Cardinals debut, Lackey pitched seven innings but was behind 2–0 when he exited the game. The Cardinals rallied for three runs the next inning, and ended up winning the game 3–2 while crediting him the win, the 150th of his career. Catcher A. J. Pierzynski, acquired from the Red Sox the same month, caught Lackey for the 19th time in 22 starts in 2014. Wearing uniform number 41 during his tenure with Anaheim and Boston, Lackey acquired the number from new teammate Pat Neshek in exchange for an autographed Babe Ruth baseball.\n\nIn 10 regular season starts for the Cardinals, Lackey allowed two or fewer runs in seven of them. He totaled a 3–3 W–L with a 4.30 ERA in IP with St. Louis, and his totals for the year including those with Boston were 14-10 W–L with a 3.82 ERA and 164 strikeouts in 198 innings. He made the postseason for the seventh time in his career, starting once each against the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League Division Series (NLDS) and the San Francisco Giants in the National League Championship Series (NLCS). The Giants defeated the Cardinals in five games, ending their season. Instead of retiring and foregoing being paid the league minimum, Lackey had stated in the previous August that he would pitch in 2015 if the Cardinals picked up the option that actuated because he missed the 2012 season due to Tommy John surgery. On October 30, the Cardinals announced they had picked up the Tommy John option. With a guaranteed base salary of $507,000, the club added performance bonuses before the start of the season.\n\nIn IP against the Chicago Cubs on May 7, 2015, Lackey struck out 10. He also drove in his third career run with a double, his third career extra base hit in a 5–1 win. On July 12, despite the Cardinals losing to the Pittsburgh Pirates 6–5 in 14 innings, he achieved his sixth consecutive quality start, and 12th in 15 appearances. He lost to the Cincinnati Reds on July 29, but gave up just one run with eight strikeouts while allowing one walk and two hits. It was the fewest hits he allowed through that point in the season. He also allowed three runs or fewer in all but of one of his prior 17 starts.\n\nBy earning his 10th win of 2015 in a 6–2 defeat of the Miami Marlins on August 15, Lackey recorded his 12th consecutive season of double-digit victory totals. He struck out six in innings and retired nine batters in a row at one point. One of the hits Lackey allowed was a single to Ichiro Suzuki, a hit with which Ichiro passed Ty Cobb for the total attained in top-level professional baseball organizations, including Nippon Professional Baseball and Major League Baseball. With seven scoreless innings of the Milwaukee Brewers on September 17, Lackey reached 200 IP for the sixth time in his career and first time since 2010. He had a 2.23 ERA over his last 17 starts. By reaching 200 IP, he triggered a $400,000 bonus, bringing his earnings for the season over $2 million. Further, Lackey turned in a season that exceeded his career norms, including a career-best 2.77 ERA, seventh-best in the league, and recorded 218 IP, his highest total since 2010. His fastball average speed for the season was , the highest since 2009.\n\nThe Cardinals won 100 games and the National League Central division, and made Lackey the Game 1 starter of the NLDS against the Cubs. He opposed Jon Lester – both men had faced the Cardinals in the World Series two years earlier as teammates with the Red Sox. Lackey held the Cubs hitless through the first five innings on the way to pitching shutout innings in a 4–0 win. The Cardinals started him on three days' for Game 4, the elimination game. He allowed a three-run home run to Javier Báez, Lackey's first allowed in the playoffs since 2008, a span of innings. The Cubs won this game and the series, ending the Cardinals' season, with Lackey's free agency following.\n\nOn December 8, 2015, Lackey signed a two-year, $32 million contract with the Chicago Cubs.\n\nOn April 18, 2016, in a game against the Cardinals, his former club, Lackey struck out 11 hitters in seven innings, earning his third win of the season. It was also his first regular season win against St. Louis, making him only the 16th player to notch a win against all 30 major league teams. He joined Al Leiter, Randy Johnson, Kevin Brown, Barry Zito, Terry Mulholland, Curt Schilling, Woody Williams, Jamie Moyer, Javier Vázquez, Vicente Padilla, Derek Lowe, Dan Haren, A. J. Burnett, Kyle Lohse, and Tim Hudson as the only players to achieve this milestone. He reached double-digit win totals for the 13th consecutive season on September 21, 2016, in a 9−2 win over the Cincinnati Reds. In 29 starts of 2016, Lackey finished 11-8 with a 3.35 ERA. With the Cubs finishing the season 103-58, the team clinched the NL Central Division. Lackey won the World Series for the third time of his career, and with a third different team after the Cubs beat the Cleveland Indians in the 2016 World Series, ending a 108-year long drought for a championship.\n\nOn August 16, 2017, against the Cincinnati Reds, Lackey recorded his first career stolen base, but was then picked off shortly thereafter.\n\nOn September 15, 2017, Lackey was ejected and fined for arguing a strike call by umpire Jordan Baker. He became a free agent after the Cubs lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NLCS.\n\nDuring the 2018 season, Lackey was offered a minor league contract by the Arizona Diamondbacks, and promptly turned it down. At a Chicago Cubs home game on September 27, 2018, Lackey was in attendance, and toasted to the camera when it panned to him. After the season concluded, Lackey officially retired.\n\nOn August 30, 2011, Lackey filed for divorce from Krista, his wife of almost three years, who had been battling cancer since March and underwent chemotherapy through June. The divorce was finalized by February 2012.\n\nLackey resides in the Austin area in the off-season. He and his wife, Kristina Carter, had their first child, a daughter, in November 2015. John is stepfather to Carter and Mavi, Kristina's children from her first marriage.\n\nIn 2009, the satirical publication \"The Onion\" published an article about Lackey, titled \"Superstitious John Lackey Has To Build, Destroy A Luxury Hotel Before Every Start.\" The article was intended to satirize superstitious professional athletes.\n\nHe was featured in a 2011 Kevin Fowler music video alongside fellow Red Sox starting pitchers Josh Beckett, Jon Lester, Tim Wakefield, and Clay Buchholz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995786", "title": "Sheffield (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sheffield (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSheffield was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom 1832 to 1885. It elected two Members of Parliament (MPs) by the bloc vote system of elections.\n\nThe constituency encompassed the urban part of the town and parish (now city) of Sheffield, England, but not the western, rural, parts of Upper Hallam and Ecclesall Bierlow, which were incorporated into Sheffield Town Borough in 1843.\n\nBefore 1832 Sheffield had been represented by the Yorkshire constituency. The Sheffield Borough constituency was created by the Reform Act of 1832, and was given two MPs, the first time that the town had been represented in the House of Commons. Four candidates stood at the first election contesting these two seats. Voting took place on 13 and 14 December 1832, with the results declared on 15 December (see below). The election sparked a riot on 14 December, which resulted in the military being called out. The soldiers fired on the crowd, killing six people and injuring several others. Following the Redistribution of Seats Act in 1885, which sought to eliminate constituencies with more than one MP and give greater representation to urban areas, the Borough of Sheffield was sub-divided. The five new divisions—Attercliffe, Brightside, Ecclesall, Hallam, and Sheffield Central—each returned a single MP.\n\nTwo MPs were elected at each general election. The table below shows the election years in which one or both of the MPs changed.\n\nThe constituency was sub-divided in 1885. The sitting MPs, A. J. Mundella and Charles Stuart-Wortley subsequently stood for and won seats in one of the new constituencies (Sheffield Brightside and Sheffield Hallam respectively).\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995792", "title": "Cayenne River", "text": "Cayenne River\n\nThe Cayenne River, a 50 km-long river in French Guiana formed by the Cascades River and the Tonnégrande River, flows into the Atlantic Ocean near the city of Cayenne, forming an estuary about 2 km long.\n\nThe river featured prominently in both the movie and the book \"\"Papillon\"\" by Henri Charrière.\n"}
{"id": "1995797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995797", "title": "Llangoed", "text": "Llangoed\n\nLlangoed () is a small village, community and electoral ward just north of Beaumaris, on the Isle of Anglesey or \"Ynys Môn\", at . The Royal Mail postcode begins LL58. Llangoed ward has a population of 1,275 (2001), falling at the 2011 census to 1,229.\n\nThe village's placename means the 'religious enclosure in the wood' in the Welsh language.\nLlangoed is on the banks of a brook called the Afon Lleiniog, which flows from the hamlet of Glanrafon to the sea, beneath the ruins of an 11th-century motte-and-bailey castle, Castell Aberlleiniog.\n\nThe 17th-century parish church of St Cawrdaf, restored in the 19th century, is in the north of the village, near a Victorian school and chapel.\n\nThe modern centre of the village is a steep hill lined by cottages, a Post Office, grocery store and chapel. To the south of the village is a primary school, Ysgol Gynradd Llangoed, and small housing estates. Sports fields are the location of an annual Rugby sevens competition. Undulating green farmland surrounds the village, with fine views to the Menai Strait, the Irish Sea and the mountains of Snowdonia (in Welsh, \"Eryri\").\n\nThe community also includes the villages of Glan-yr-afon (Llangoed), Caim, and Penmon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995800", "title": "William Stamps Farish III", "text": "William Stamps Farish III\n\nWilliam Stamps Farish III (born March 17, 1939, in Houston, Texas) is an American businessman and a former US ambassador to the UK from 2001 until 2004.\n\nHe was an only child, his father, Army Lt. William Stamps Farish Jr., died in a training flight near Waxahachie, when he was 4 years old. His grandfather is William Stamps Farish II, the founder of Humble Oil and Refining Company, which struck oil in the Houston suburb Humble, part of what later to become the Exxon behemoth. William Stamps Farish II was appointed chairman of Standard Oil by John D. Rockefeller and went on to become president of Standard Oil from 1937 to 1942. His other grandfather was Robert E. Wood, who was the chief executive officer of the Sears, Roebuck & Co. Wood was the leader in the Old Right movement from the 1920s through the 1960s as well as a key financial backer of the America First Committee. Farish grew up in Houston, where he attended St. John's School and graduated of the University of Virginia.\n\nGrowing up his mother, Mary Farish, George H. W. Bush (later 41st President of the United States) and Barbara Bush Bush were very close friends. When Bush moved to Texas in 1948, it was the Farish connection that gave him his start in his career in the oil industry. Farish was taken in 'almost like family' – said Barbara Bush, while campaigning for George H. W. Bush's entrée into Washington Senatorial politics in 1964. During that unsuccessful campaign, Farish claimed to have been the first man to whom Bush confided his ultimate aim was to be president one day.\n\nThe Bush Farish alliance dated back to 1929. In that year the Wall Street investment bank of W. Averell Harriman bought Dresser Industries (later Halliburton), a supplier of oil-pipeline to Standard Oil and other oil companies. Prescott Bush, George H. W. Bush's father was a Harriman and Company executive who became a director and financier of Dresser and he served on the board of directors for twenty-two years.\n\nHe began his career as a stockbroker at Underwood, Neuhaus and Company in Houston. He later served as President of Navarro Exploration Company. Farish was also a founding Director of Eurus, Inc., a bank holding company in New York as well as of Capital National Bank in Houston. Farish owns W.S. Farish & Co., a trust company based in Houston. In 2003, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws from the University of Kentucky. He has served on the board of directors of Vaalco Energy Inc..\n\nIn 1966, he entered the Board of directors of Zapata Petroleum Company founded in 1953 by George H. W. Bush. Farish said to have been the first man to whom Bush confided his ambition to be president one day. Farish was George H. W. Bush's very first personal aide when he went into politics, and 28 years later, before the Bushes left the White House, his son, William Stamps Farish IV, also served in that position.\n\nFarish was in the investment business. He owned the W.S. Farish & Co. investment firm, he managed the blind trust that Bush had to set up when he became vice-president in the Eighties. He had dealings in oil and gas exploration, mining, cattle ranching and local television stations.\n\nA breeder of thoroughbred racehorses, in 1979 Farish bought the 240 acres that had been Bosque Bonita Farm near Lexington, Kentucky. Over the years it would be expanded to and renamed Lane's End Farm. A leading breeder of horses that compete around the world, Lane's End Farm hosted Queen Elizabeth II several times during visits to Lexington. The Queen owned about two dozen mares, and each trip gave her a chance to set up those mares with his leading stallions.\n\nHe also owns a home in the horse community of Wellington, Florida.\n\nLane's End has a secondary operation near Hempstead, Texas. Farish's operations have bred and/or raced over 225 horses that became stakes winners, both individually and with partners. In 1972, his horse Bee Bee Bee won the Preakness Stakes and his filly Casual Look won a British Classic, the 2003 Epsom Oaks. In 1992, and again in 1999, he received the Eclipse Award for Outstanding Breeder. Farish has served as chairman of Churchill Downs, home to the Kentucky Derby.\n\nFarish was nominated by President George W. Bush as U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom on March 5, 2001, appointed on July 11, 2001, and served until he resigned in early summer 2004.\n\nThe United Kingdom newspaper \"The Guardian\" commented on his low profile during the period leading up to the Iraq War. Christopher Meyer, who was British Ambassador to Washington during Farish's service, said that \"as ambassador [Farish] proved as agreeable as he was invisible.\"\n\nFarish wed Sarah Sharp, a stepdaughter of Bayard Sharp (1913–2002), a Du Pont heir, when Farish was 23 and Sarah as 19. Bayard Sharp's mother was Isabella Mathieu du Pont, sister of Irenee du Pont, who ran the du Pont fortune and was one of the leaders of a 1934 plot to overthrow President Franklin Roosevelt. Later Bayard Sharp raised thoroughbreds at the family's farm just across the Delaware border.\n\nThey are the parents of one son, William Stamps Farish IV, and three daughters, Mary Farish Johnston, Laura Farish Chadwick, Hillary Farish Stratton. Laura Farish, one of his daughters, worked in the White House as one of Bush's scheduling aides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995807", "title": "Carrie Ingalls", "text": "Carrie Ingalls\n\nCaroline \"Carrie\" Celestia Ingalls Swanzey (; August 3, 1870 – June 2, 1946) was the third child of Charles and Caroline Ingalls, and was born in Montgomery County, Kansas. She was a younger sister of Laura Ingalls Wilder, who is known for her \"Little House\" books.\n\nAs a child, Carrie Ingalls Swanzey (according to her sister Laura) had been small, thin and frail, and seemed to have suffered the most of all the Ingalls family members through the deprivations of the hard winter of 1880–81. Wilder remarks in a later book that Carrie \"was not recovering from the hard winter as she should\" (\"Little Town on the Prairie\", chapter 12). Carrie was not constantly ill, but she never enjoyed robust physical health during her life. She traveled to several places in her young adulthood seeking a more comfortable climate, but always returned to the harsh winter climate of South Dakota.\nDuring her late-teen years Carrie was a typesetter for the \"De Smet News\" and, subsequently, other newspapers throughout the state. At age 41 on August 1, 1912, she married widower David N. Swanzey (1854–1938), who is best-remembered for his part in the naming of Mount Rushmore. She became stepmother to Swanzey's two children: Mary Swanzey (1904-1969, married Monroe Harris, 14 children) and Harold Swanzey (1908–1936). Harold was one of the workers who helped carve Mount Rushmore, and his name can be found on the granite walls below the monument. He was later killed in a car accident. David Swanzey died in Keystone, South Dakota on April 9, 1938.\n\nWith her sister Grace's help, Carrie took care of their blind sister Mary after their mother's death in 1924.\n\nCarrie was enthusiastic about her sister's books and helped her by sharing her childhood memories. Like Grace and Laura, she suffered from diabetes, and died of complications from the disease in Keystone on June 2, 1946 at age 75. She was buried in the De Smet Cemetery. She outlived by nearly five years her youngest sibling Grace, who also died of diabetes complications.\n\nCarrie was portrayed in the television adaptations of Little House on the Prairie by :\n\n"}
{"id": "1995818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995818", "title": "53rd &amp; 3rd", "text": "53rd &amp; 3rd\n\n\"53rd & 3rd\" is a song by the American punk rock band the Ramones.\n\nThe song, written by bassist Dee Dee Ramone, refers to what was then a well-known spot for male prostitution in New York City, known as \"the Loop\". The area was a center of gay nightlife decades before the West Village became prominent, and was home to well-known hustler bars, most notably Cowboys, Rounds, and Red, from the 1970s through the 1990s.\n\nShortly after the song was written, the block between 3rd and Lexington avenues was cleared to make way for one of Manhattan's tallest skyscrapers, the Citigroup Center. Years later, the Lipstick Building was built on the east side of 3rd Avenue at 53rd. However, gay hustlers remained in abundance at bars on 53rd between 3rd and 1st avenues.\n\nThe song also lent its name to an influential British indie pop label. It was run by The Pastels' Stephen Pastel with David Keegan from the Shop Assistants, and released records by the likes of Talulah Gosh, Shop Assistants, The Vaselines, The Soup Dragons, and BMX Bandits.\n\nThe song was covered by Metallica on the Ramones tribute album \"\", with frontman James Hetfield singing the verses and chorus and drummer Lars Ulrich singing the bridge.\n\nShotgun Messiah covered the song on their EP \"I Want More\".\n\nOn the live album \"We're Outta Here!\", Lars Fredriksen and Tim Armstrong of Rancid join the Ramones in performing the song, with both playing guitar and Lars singing the bridge.\n\nThe Knockouts covered \"53rd and 3rd\" on their 2008 EP \"The Remarkable Sounds of India\". Their version was sung by guest vocalist Mick Sheridan, in Hindi.\n\nScreeching Weasel covered \"53rd and 3rd\" on their album \"Beat is on the Brat\" that was released in 1998 and includes 18 covers of Ramones songs.\n\nRod Stewart referenced 53rd and 3rd as the location in his song \"The Killing of Georgie (Part I and II)\".\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1995821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995821", "title": "Rafe Spall", "text": "Rafe Spall\n\nRafe Joseph Spall (born 10 March 1983) is an English actor. He is best known for his roles in the \"Three Flavours Cornetto\" trilogy of films, portraying Noel in \"Shaun of the Dead\" (2004), Andy Cartwright in \"Hot Fuzz\" (2007), and briefly appearing as a homebuyer in \"The World's End\" (2013).\n\nAdditionally, Spall has appeared in films including \"A Good Year\" (2006), \"One Day\" (2011), \"Anonymous\" (2011), \"Prometheus\" (2012), \"Life of Pi\" (2012), \"The Big Short\" (2015), \"The BFG\" (2016), \"The Ritual\" (2017), and \"\" (2018). Spall played the title role of Pete Griffiths in \"Pete versus Life\" from 2010–2011, and has portrayed characters on the TV series \"The Shadow Line\" and \"Black Mirror\". Spall also appeared in the \"Men in Black\" spin-off film \"\" (2019).\n\nSince May 2020, Spall stars in the Apple TV+ comedy series \"Trying\". \n\nSpall was born at King's College Hospital in Camberwell, London, the second of three children of Shane (\"née\" Baker) and actor Timothy Spall. Named after the protagonist in \"The Knight of the Burning Pestle\", a role his father played in the Royal Shakespeare Company and one he would later play himself, he always had ambitions to act. When he was 12, his father was diagnosed with leukaemia and spent the next 18 months in treatment. He was overweight as a teen, which he calls a \"painful\" experience. Having achieved poor grades at his school, Haberdashers' Aske's Hatcham College, he left to become an actor and joined the National Youth Theatre at 15. He failed to get into his chosen drama schools, such as RADA, at 17, but worked anyway. After being perennially cast in \"fat\" roles, he lost 77 lbs at age 19, which brought more acting opportunities.\n\nSpall has frequently collaborated with Edgar Wright, appearing in his films \"Shaun of the Dead\", \"Hot Fuzz\" and \"The World's End\" alongside Simon Pegg and Nick Frost. Spall was also featured in Wright's segment in the 2007 Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez film \"Grindhouse\".\n\nIn 2007, Spall performed for the first time with his father in the ITV adaptation of \"A Room with a View\" playing father and son.\n\nIn 2011, Spall starred in the romantic tragedy film \"One Day\" opposite Anne Hathaway.\n\nIn 2012, Spall portrayed Canadian author Yann Martel in the Academy Award-winning drama film \"Life of Pi\", directed by Ang Lee and starring Suraj Sharma and Irrfan Khan. The film was a critical and financial success, winning four Academy Awards and making over $600 million at the box office. In 2013, he played the newlywed husband in \"I Give It a Year\", a comedy about the trials and tribulations of a couple during their first year of marriage.\n\nIn 2014, Spall appeared in the coming-of-age drama \"X+Y\", alongside Asa Butterfield and Sally Hawkins, and the seasonal family comedy \"Get Santa\". In 2015, he played John Hancock in the History Channel three-part series, \"Sons of Liberty\", alongside Jim Broadbent, and appeared in the Academy Award-winning biographical comedy-drama \"The Big Short\", alongside Christian Bale, Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling and Steve Carell. Also that year, Spall played Harry Price in \"Harry Price: Ghost Hunter\", ITV's adaptation of Neil Spring's debut novel, \"The Ghost Hunters\". The film aired on ITV1 on 27 December.\n\nSpall portrayed Eli Mills in \"\" (2018), the fifth instalment of Steven Spielberg's \"Jurassic Park\" series, and directed by \"The Impossible\" helmer J. A. Bayona.\n\nSince 2020, Spall has a leading role in the Apple TV+ comedy series \"Trying\", opposite Esther Smith and Imelda Staunton. The first season premiered on 1 May 2020. A second season has already been commisioned by Apple Inc. \n\nSpall says he has always struggled with his weight, going up to , but said that he was given so many character parts that he attempted to slim down, losing over 32 kg. Like his father, he is a keen supporter of Crystal Palace. He is a patron of the Actors' Centre.\n\nIn February 2008, Spall met actress Elize du Toit; they were married on 14 August 2010 and live in West Kensington, London. They have three children: a daughter Lena, born 2011, a son Rex, born November 2012 and another son born in 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995822", "title": "Dinematichthys", "text": "Dinematichthys\n\nDinematichthys is a genus of viviparous brotulas. Its name comes from Greek, meaning \"two-filamented fish\" (\"di\" means two, \"nema\" filament and \"ichthys\" fish).\n\nThere are currently two recognized species in this genus:\n"}
{"id": "1995828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995828", "title": "Bill Dundee", "text": "Bill Dundee\n\nWilliam \"Bill\" Cruickshanks (born 24 October 1943) is a Scottish-born Australian professional wrestler and author better known by his stage name Bill Dundee. Cruickshanks is the father of Jamie Dundee and the father-in-law of wrestler Bobby Eaton.\n\nDundee was born in Angus, Scotland, and raised in Melbourne. At the age of 16, he joined the circus as a trapeze artist. He started wrestling in Australia in 1962 and finally arrived in the United States as \"Superstar\" Bill Dundee in 1974 with his tag team partner George Barnes.\n\nDundee made a name for himself in the Memphis Territory where he regularly teamed and feuded with Jerry Lawler and Jimmy Valiant for years. Dundee and Lawler ventured to the American Wrestling Association together in 1987 and captured the AWA World Tag Team Championship twice.\n\nAs a singles wrestler, he held the Southern Heavyweight Championship belt several times from roughly 1975 to 1985 and also had a successful team with \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Landel that wreaked havoc in Tennessee.\n\nDundee had a brief run in the NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions, Central States Wrestling and Florida Championship Wrestling in 1986 where he teamed with Jimmy Garvin and feuded with Sam Houston for the NWA Central States Heavyweight Championship. He also briefly managed The Barbarian and The MOD Squad while in those territories.\n\nHe also had a run in World Championship Wrestling in the early 1990s as Sir William, the manager for Lord Steven Regal.\n\nDundee worked as a booker for Memphis, Louisiana and Georgia.\n\nDundee is still active as of 2019 in Memphis Wrestling where he has been a heel and a baby-face. He frequently appears on Jackson, Tennessee talk radio station WNWS 101.5 with Dan Reeves and on a talk show on Public-access television cable TV channels in West Tennessee. He still promotes indy cards across Tennessee and in Southaven, Mississippi. He currently runs a podcast on Anchor, named \"If You Don't Want the Answer, Don't Ask the Question\".\n\nOn July 20, 2019, Dundee at 75 years old defeated Tony Deppen to win the WOMBAT Television Championship for Game Changer Wrestling in Tullahoma, Tennessee.\n\n\nDundee's son Jamie Dundee, also became a wrestler, whereas his daughter Donna, married wrestler Bobby Eaton. His grandson, Dylan Eaton, wrestles as well.\n\nIn the early 1990s he partnered with Doug Hurt, brother of Jerry Lawler's manager, in the opening of a furniture store in Evansville, Indiana called \"Superstar Dundee Furniture\". The store collapsed about a year after opening.\n\nIn 1998, he was a sales manager for American Cable and promoted satellite sales in the West Tennessee area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995829", "title": "James Hamilton, 1st Lord Hamilton", "text": "James Hamilton, 1st Lord Hamilton\n\nJames Hamilton, 1st Lord Hamilton, 6th Laird of Cadzow (c. 1415 – 6 November 1479) was a Scottish nobleman, scholar and politician.\n\nJames Hamilton was the son of James Hamilton of Cadzow, 5th Laird of Cadzow. He was born at Cadzow Castle, Lanarkshire. He first appears on record on a charter of 1426, granting him the rights to the lands of Dalserf, which had been alienated by his father.\n\nHamilton was intimately connected with the powerful House of Douglas: his paternal grand-mother was a daughter of James Douglas Lord of Dalkeith d. 1441, and also through his marriage in 1439/1440 with Lady Euphemia Graham, the youthful widow of Archibald Douglas, 5th Earl of Douglas and daughter of Euphemia Stewart, Countess of Strathearn. Hamilton became stepfather to the young 6th Earl of Douglas, his brother David, both who would be murdered in November 1440 at the 'Black Dinner' at Edinburgh Castle in the presence of James II. Furthermore, he was the stepfather of Margaret Douglas, known as the \"Fair Maid of Galloway\", who was to marry her cousins William Douglas, 8th Earl of Douglas, and James Douglas, 9th Earl of Douglas.\n\nPrior to 1440 he achieved the status of knighthood, and c. 1440/1441 he inherited his father's estates.\nIn 1445, Hamilton received letters patent creating him a Lord of Parliament. This charter raised all his estates into the entail of that rank, with its Capital Messuage at the \"Orchard\", (later Hamilton Palace), at Cadzow. Furthermore, the charter stated that henceforth the lands would be known as Hamilton as they are today.\n\nHamilton accompanied his stepson in law, the 8th Earl of Douglas, to Rome in 1450, and there obtained permission from the Holy See to convert the Parish Church at the new burgh of Hamilton into a Collegiate Establishment, with endowments for a Provost and six Canons.\n\nHe was certainly with the 9th Earl of Douglas, a month after the murder when the 9th Earl burned the town of Stirling. There followed open warfare in which King James II attacked Douglas lands. An agreement was reached between the King and the Douglas faction at Douglas Castle, in August 1452 that was to last until 1455 in which the Douglas forgave the King's killing of his brother.\nIn 1453, Hamilton was in England, again with the 9th Earl of Douglas, arranging the release of his brother in law, Malise Graham, Earl of Strathearn. For this action Strathearn granted Hamilton the lands of Elliestoun in Linlithgowshire. Hamilton was again in London the following year negotiating a treasonous bond in which Douglas was to swear fealty to King Henry VI in return for support against King James, but the negotiations came to nothing. He was back in Scotland by February 1455 at which time Hamilton and the Earl of Douglas's brothers ravaged and burned much of Lanarkshire.\n\nIn March 1455, King James took to the field against Douglas, sacking his properties and burning his crops. Hamilton's lands, he being a partisan of the Douglases, were also particularly devastated. King James then besieged the Douglas stronghold of Abercorn Castle, using cannons to destroy it. Douglas mustered his men from Douglasdale, Galloway and the Forest; Hamilton, his levies from Clydesdale. The troops marched to raise the siege, but the Earl of Douglas' indecision on a plan of attack is said to have perplexed Hamilton, and cause him to withdraw his support for the Douglas cause.\nHamilton changed sides and became a partisan of the Royal party. There is evidence to suggest that Hamilton's uncle, James Livingstone, 1st Lord Livingston had a part in this change of heart. Douglas fled to England, his Castle of Abercorn was slighted, two of his brothers died at and following the Battle of Arkinholm; finally Douglas' great fortalice of Threave Castle fell and Douglas was attainted, all his enormous patrimony forfeit.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the Douglas rebellion, Hamilton was warded at Roslin Castle, in Midlothian for a short while. As recompense for his \"Volte-Face\", Hamilton was created Sheriff of Lanark, in July 1455, and certain of the Earl of Douglas' forfeited lands were made over to him. These, and his existing lands, being confirmed in Royal charters of October that year. The Barony of Hamilton was increased to include the lands of Drumsergard, Cessford, Kinneil etc., and carefully entailed to whosoever might bear the name and Chief arms of Hamilton. Hamilton was made Bailie of the Priory of Lesmahagow, a Douglas foundation, and was granted the privilege of the lands of Finnart. Hamilton's new patron was the new Lord of Douglas, George Douglas, 4th Earl of Angus, the head of the \"Red line\" of the House of Douglas, and a supporter of the King.\n\nHamilton married first, Lady Euphemia Graham, daughter of Patrick Graham, de jure Earl of Strathearn and Euphemia Stewart, Countess of Strathearn and widow of Archibald Douglas, 5th Earl of Douglas. They had a daughter:\nHe married secondly, Princess Mary Stewart of Scotland, daughter of James II of Scotland, and widow of Thomas Boyd, Earl of Arran. By Princess Mary, Hamilton had three children:\n\nIllegitimate children included Sir Patrick Hamilton of Kincavil, father of Master Patrick Hamilton, burnt for heresy in 1528 and a Protestant martyr. Lord Hamilton also had a daughter who married Sir John MacFarlane, 11th chief of Clan MacFarlane. John Hamilton of Broomhill (d. c. 1550), another illegitimate child of James, 1st Lord Hamilton, was by Janet Calderwood. In 1512 John's birth was legitimised. His grandson, James Hamilton, notably served as Sheriff of Perthshire, and his descendants became the Lords Belhaven and Stenton. Another illegitimate child by Janet Calderwood was David Hamilton, Bishop of Argyll and commendator of Dryburgh Abbey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995831", "title": "Alexander Armstrong (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "Alexander Armstrong (Royal Navy officer)\n\nSir Alexander Armstrong (1818 – 4 July 1899), born in County Donegal, Ulster, Ireland, was a naval surgeon, explorer, and author who from 1850 to 1854 sailed the Arctic on under the command of Robert McClure in search of the lost expedition of explorer Sir John Franklin. Armstrong's account of the voyage, \"Personal narrative of the discovery of the north-west passage\", was published in London in 1857.\n\nHe was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, and at the University of Edinburgh. He entered the Medical Department of the Royal Navy in 1842 and became its Director-General in 1869. He was present during the naval bombardment of Sveaborg during the Crimean War. He became a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1871 and served as honorary physician to The Queen and to The Prince of Wales (later Edward VII).\n"}
{"id": "1995836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995836", "title": "Ituzaingó, Buenos Aires", "text": "Ituzaingó, Buenos Aires\n\nItuzaingó () is the capital of the Ituzaingó Partido in the Greater Buenos Aires metropolitan area, Argentina, west of Buenos Aires.\n\nItuzaingó has been the capital of the Ituzaingó Partido or municipality of Buenos Aires Province since 1995, when the partido was created. Buildings of more than three stories were until recently prohibited and most houses are only one story high\n\nThe shopping area near the train station connecting the city with Buenos Aires City (Downtown) is located surrounding a square, opposite the church, where concerts, cultural events and fares are held on weekends and holidays.\n\nItuzaingó is away from the city of Buenos Aires. It has French-style chalets, quiet streets and leafy trees, which coexist in all neighborhoods of the city. According to the last national census of 2010, the population was of 168,419 people.\n\nIt stands out the neighborhood of Parque Leloir, one of the largest protected ecological zones of the Province, and also known to be a quiet residential neighborhood with huge houses and home of many celebrities.\n\nClub Atlético Ituzaingó is the local professional team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995837", "title": "Bluebird Toys", "text": "Bluebird Toys\n\nBluebird Toys plc was a British toy company. They are responsible for the Polly Pocket brand, Havok wargame and Disney Tiny Collection. Previous toy lines include Manta Force, Oh Penny, the British version of Oh Jenny from Matchbox Toys, Mighty Max and miniature Thomas and Friends sets.\n\nTorquil Norman founded Bluebird Toys in 1980, his first product being the now famous Big Yellow Teapot House. This was one of the first ‘container’ houses which broke away from the traditional architectural style of dolls' houses in favour of this light and colourful family home. He is also famous for his Big Red Fun Bus and Big Jumbo Fun Plane, A La Carte Kitchen, Polly Pocket, Lucy Locket (A larger version of Polly Pocket) and the Mighty Max range, as well as the invention of the plastic lunch box.\n\nBluebird was an almost immediate success, coming within £18,000 of breaking even in its first year of business, on turnover of £1.25m. By 1983 turnover had reached £3.4, and in 1985 the company went public on the Unlisted Securities Market. The shares had reached 500p by 1987, before sliding back to 26p in 1991, when the company reported a hefty loss.\n\nThe company acquired Peter Pan Playthings in 1987 and Merit Toys in 1988.\n\nThe company was saved by the Polly Pocket range, introduced in 1989, which became a global phenomenon. By 1993, the shares were back up to 575p, and the next year Bluebird announced profits of £7m on sales of over £40m, rising again to £20m on turnover of £100m in 1994-95. This figure was dominated by Polly Pocket and Mighty Max, a parallel line for boys introduced in 1992, accounting between them for 87% of sales. Already by 1994 nearly three-quarters of Britain's 2 million girls aged between three and eight were estimated to own a Polly Pocket. The shares rose still further, trebling again by October 1995 when the company announced a licence for a new line of Disney characters in the pocket-size format, which became the Disney Tiny Collection series, and a new distribution deal with Mattel.\n\nHowever, by 1997, Polly Pocket sales had fallen back, Mattel announced it would take no more of the existing stock until a reformat of the brand, and the share price was down to only a quarter of its previous peak value.\n\nFinancier Sir Ron Brierley's Guinness Peat Group made an unsolicited bid for the company in January 1998, but was outbid by Mattel acting as a white knight. Mattel swiftly went on to integrate Bluebird's products into its own lines, closing the headquarters in Swindon and offering redundancy packages to all those who were not offered relocation to the Mattel headquarters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995850", "title": "I. L. Peretz Folk School", "text": "I. L. Peretz Folk School\n\nThe I.L. Peretz Folk School of Winnipeg was founded in the city's Jewish district in the years immediately following the explosion of Jewish population in Winnipeg's North End caused by antisemitic pogroms in Russia that peaked in the 1880s.\n\nThe school was named for one of the greatest Yiddish authors and playwrights, Isaac Leib Peretz (May 18, 1852 – 1915), also known as Yitskhok Leybush Peretz, best known as I.L. Peretz (or more popularly among Yiddish speakers as Yud Lamed Peretz, using his Hebrew-language initials).\n\nAs the city of Winnipeg's Jewish population grew, notably during the post-World War II years, many middle-class families began purchasing homes in the new suburban housing developments in the northwest area of West Kildonan (and district of the city at the time). The development known as Garden City rapidly became populous enough to justify the building of a second school. The original school on Aikins Avenue in the older part of the city's north end continued in full operation. The newer second school, on Jefferson Avenue, flourished and through obvious need attracted a younger and more contemporary group of teachers.\n\nThroughout its history, it held co-educational classes in both Yiddish and English up through Grade VII. Declining enrolment and rising costs during the 1980s led to its closing and absorption by the Talmud Torah, a more religiously oriented, Hebrew-language day school on Matheson Avenue, which created a Yiddish-language track to accommodate those interested in continuing education in Yiddish. The Talmud Torah name, in turn, disappeared when all parochial Jewish education in Winnipeg was moved to the new Asper Jewish Community Campus in Tuxedo during the 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995853", "title": "Gnutella crawler", "text": "Gnutella crawler\n\nA Gnutella crawler is a software program used to gather statistic information on the gnutella file sharing network, such as the number of users, the market share of different clients and the geographical distribution of the userbase.\n\nEarly crawlers used the Ping/Pong messages to discover hosts connected to the network. Although this method is still usable, it is too slow to capture enough data for a topological overview of the gnutella network as it requires initiating full gnutella connections; this involves several roundtrips to perform the header processing. An extension has been added to the gnutella protocol to allow crawlers to quickly access ultrapeers. Right now, there is no publicly accessible crawler online on the gnutella network, since the last one hosted by Lime Wire LLC has been taken down.\n\nGnutella2 (G2) also supports crawlers for the gain of statistical data such as the network size or the network composition (clients, versions, usernames and usercountries). Right now, there is only one crawler existing on the G2 network, called \"g2paranha\". It is written and maintained by dcat and licensed under the GPL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995855", "title": "Berbere", "text": "Berbere\n\nBerbere (Oromo: \"Barbaree\"), ( \"bärbäre\", \"bärbärä\") is a spice mixture whose constituent elements usually include chili peppers, coriander, garlic, ginger, basil, \"korarima\", rue, ajwain or radhuni, nigella, and fenugreek. It is a key ingredient in the cuisines of Ethiopia and Eritrea. \n\nBerbere sometimes encompasses herbs and spices that are less well known internationally. The latter include both cultivated plants and those that grow wild in Ethiopia, such as korarima (\"Aframomum corrorima\") and long pepper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995858", "title": "Painted bunting", "text": "Painted bunting\n\nThe painted bunting (\"Passerina ciris\") is a species of bird in the cardinal family, Cardinalidae, that is native to North America. The bright plumage of the male only comes in the second year of life; in the first year they can only be distinguished from the female by close inspection.\n\nThe painted bunting was originally described by Carl Linnaeus in his eighteenth-century work \"Systema Naturae\". There are two recognized subspecies of the painted bunting. \n\n\nThe male painted bunting is often described as the most beautiful bird in North America and as such has been nicknamed nonpareil, or \"without equal\". Its colors, dark blue head, green back, red rump, and underparts, make it extremely easy to identify, but it can still be difficult to spot since it often skulks in foliage even when it is singing. The plumage of female and juvenile painted buntings is green and yellow-green, serving as camouflage. Once seen, the adult female is still distinctive, since it is a brighter, truer green than other similar songbirds. Adult painted buntings can measure in length, span across the wings and weigh .\n\nThe juveniles have two inserted molts in their first autumn, each yielding plumage like an adult female. The first starts a few days after fledging, replacing the \"juvenile plumage\" with an \"auxiliary formative plumage\"; and the second a month or so later giving the \"formative plumage\".\n\nThe painted bunting occupies typical habitat for a member of its family. It is found in thickets, woodland edges with riparian thickets, shrubbery and brushy areas. In the east, the species breeds in maritime hammocks and scrub communities. Today, it is often found along roadsides and in suburban areas, and in gardens with dense, shrubby vegetation. The wintering habitat is typically the shrubby edges along the border of tropical forests or densely vegetated savanna. The breeding range is divided into two geographically separate areas. These include southern Arizona, southern New Mexico, southern and eastern Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, northern Florida, coastal Georgia, the southern coast and inland waterways such as the Santee River of South Carolina and northern Mexico. They winter in South Florida, Cuba, the Bahamas, along both coasts of Mexico and through much of Central America. Occasionally, they may be vagrants further north, including to New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. The bird is also found every few years as far north as New Brunswick, Canada. Genetic analyses showed that the species can be divided into three main groups on their breeding grounds: a western, central and eastern group.\n\nPainted buntings are shy, secretive and often difficult to observe for the human eye, though can be fairly approachable where habituated to bird feeders. Males sing in spring from exposed perches to advertise their territories. They also engage in visual displays including flying bouncingly like a butterfly or in an upright display, body-fluff display, bow display and wing-quiver display. These displays are used in agonistic conflicts with other males or in breeding displays for females, with females rarely engaging in displays. Occasionally, males may physically clash with each other and may even kill each other in such conflicts. When their breeding season has concluded, buntings migrate by night over short to medium distances. Western birds (Arizona and northern Mexico) molt in mid-migration, while eastern birds tend to molt before they migrate.\n\nPainted buntings often feed by hopping along the ground, cautiously stopping every few moments to look around. The painted bunting regularly eats a large quantity of grass seeds, including; \"Panicum\", \"Amaranthus\", \"Oxalis\", \"Euphorbia\" and \"Carex\". Seeds are eaten almost exclusively during winter. While breeding, painted bunting and nestlings mainly eat small invertebrates, including; spiders, snails, grasshoppers, caterpillars and other insects. They have been known to regularly visit spider webs to pick off small insects caught in them.\n\nPainted buntings are mostly monogamous and are solitary or in pairs during the breeding season, but sometimes exhibit polygyny. The breeding season begins in late April and lasts through to early August, with activity peaking mid-May through to mid-July. The male arrives about a week before the female and starts to establish a small territory. The nest is typically hidden in low, dense vegetation and is built by the females and woven into the surrounding vegetation for strength. Each brood contains three or four gray-white eggs, often spotted with brown, which are incubated for around 10 days until the altricial young are hatched. The female alone cares for the young. The hatchlings are brooded for approximately 12 to 14 days and then fledge at that time. About 30 days after the first eggs hatch, the female painted bunting usually lays a second brood. Nests are often parasitized by cowbirds. Common predators at the nest of eggs, young, and brooding females are large snakes, including coachwhip snakes, eastern kingsnakes, eastern racers and black rat snakes. The painted bunting can live to over 10 years of age, though most wild buntings probably live barely half that long.\n\nThe male painted bunting was once a very popular caged bird, but its capture and holding is currently illegal. Trapping for overseas sale may still occur in Central America. Populations are primarily declining due to habitat being lost to development, especially in coastal swamp thickets and woodland edges in the east and riparian habitats in migration and winter in the Southeastern United States and Mexico. They are protected by the U.S. Migratory Bird Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995859", "title": "Mary Ingalls", "text": "Mary Ingalls\n\nMary Amelia Ingalls (January 10, 1865 – October 20, 1928) was born near the town of Pepin, Wisconsin. She was the first child of Caroline and Charles Ingalls and older sister of author Laura Ingalls Wilder, known for her \"Little House\" book series.\n\nAt age 14, Ingalls suffered an illness—allegedly scarlet fever— thought at the time to cause her blindness. A 2013 study published in the journal \"Pediatrics\" concluded that viral meningoencephalitis actually stole her eyesight, based on evidence from firsthand accounts and newspaper reports of her illness as well as relevant school registries and epidemiologic data on blindness and infectious diseases. Between 1881 and 1889, Ingalls attended the Iowa Braille and Sight Saving School in Vinton, Iowa.\n\nThe historical record doesn't show why Ingalls did not attend school during one year of that time, but she did finish the seven-year course of study in 1889 and graduated. She then returned home to her parents in De Smet, South Dakota and contributed to the family income by making fly nets for horses. After her father died in 1902, she and her mother rented out a room in their home for extra income. Following her mother's death in April 1924, she lived for a time with her sister, Grace Ingalls Dow in Manchester, South Dakota.\n\nIngalls was portrayed in the television series \"Little House on the Prairie\" by actress Melissa Sue Anderson. The television version of Mary Ingalls became a teacher in a school for the blind and married a blind fellow teacher, Adam Kendall, who was portrayed by Linwood Boomer. The real Mary Ingalls never became a teacher nor married but returned to De Smet to live with her parents after graduating from Vinton.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995864", "title": "Richard C. Meredith", "text": "Richard C. Meredith\n\nRichard Carlton Meredith (October 21, 1937 – March 8, 1979), was an American writer, illustrator and graphic designer, best known as the author of science fiction short stories and novels including \"We All Died at Breakaway Station\" and \"The Timeliner Trilogy\".\n\nMeredith was born on October 21, 1937, in Alderson, West Virginia, United States, the first son of Joseph and LaVon Meredith. The family moved several times before eventually settling in St. Albans, West Virginia late in 1942 or early in 1943, where his father, a pipe-fitter by trade, found employment as a technician in a chemical plant involved in the development and production of synthetic rubber. The family remained there until 1956, during which time it was blessed with another new arrival — a daughter they named Sandra.\n\nDuring Meredith's years at high school and one year at West Virginia State College, he discovered science fiction, including the juvenile novels of Robert A. Heinlein and the pulp magazines \"Amazing\" and \"Fantastic\". In 1950 he bought his first copy of \"Astounding\", of which he collected virtually all issues until the death of the editor John W. Campbell, in 1971. It was at this time that Meredith wrote his first short stories. He had no thought of becoming a full-time author; Meredith wanted to be an astronomer — an ambition he followed until he realized that he did not have the mathematical aptitude necessary for a career in astronomy.\n\nMeredith's parents moved to Pensacola, Florida in 1956 in pursuit of improved economic and financial opportunities. Meredith followed soon after and, disillusioned at the lack of jobs available to him (he had not finished college), he decided to enlist in the U.S. Army. There he received extensive training in microwave radio theory and practice before becoming a microwave systems technician and later an instructor in microwave radio theory and the electronics aspects of aircraft navigation and communication. This experience might have influenced the plot of his later novel \"We All Died at Breakaway Station\", which is focused on the communications technology of a future space culture and on the extreme sacrifice made by a space navy's technicians in order to maintain interstellar communications and let a vital message get through.\n\nMeredith married his high school sweetheart during this period, but the marriage did not last long and ended in divorce.\n\nAfter leaving the Army in 1960, Meredith returned to his family in Pensacola and enrolled at Pensacola Junior College. However, his studies were cut short again, this time when he was recalled to the U.S. Army in 1961 due to the Berlin Crisis and escalating tensions between the United States and the U.S.S.R. Meredith served with a helicopter rescue unit in the Mississippi National Guard but did not see action.\n\nAfter his final release from the Army in 1962, Meredith found employment at Grice Electronics Inc in Pensacola, an electronics wholesale and retail company, where he rose to become advertising manager and met a girl from Alabama named Joy Gates. They married in 1963 and in 1965 Joy gave birth to a daughter, Kira Chimene. The family would grow further with the birth of three sons: Jefferson Conan, Derek Carlton, and Rand Calvin.\n\nMeredith developed his writing during his time in the Army and began to submit short stories to some of the men's magazines that had appeared in imitation of \"Playboy\". Accounts differ as to when the first stories were published but it was almost certainly between 1960 and 1962, the earliest reported being an American Civil War-based story (\"The Renegades\") in the April 1962 issue of \"Sir Knight\" magazine. After the birth of his daughter, Meredith began to write with the intention of selling stories to the science fiction magazines. Numerous rejection slips followed until he was taken on by the Scott Meredith Literary Agency and then began to get short stories accepted for publication.\n\n\"Choice of Weapons\" appeared in the March 1966 issue of \"Worlds of Tomorrow\" and more stories were published over the next two years as Meredith refined his writing style. Meredith's novella \"We All Died at Breakaway Station\" was published in the January and March 1969 issues of \"Amazing Stories\". This appears to have drawn the attention of Ballantine Books, because later in the year they published Meredith's first novels: \"The Sky is Filled with Ships\" and a revised and expanded version of \"We All Died at Breakaway Station\".\n\nMeredith attended DeepSouthCon 8 in Atlanta, Georgia in 1970, a science fiction convention also known as \"Agacon '70\". During the convention he was awarded the first Phoenix Award for professional contributions to southern science fiction fandom.\n\n1970 brought change in Meredith's life. He returned to education, first at Pensacola Junior College and later at the University of West Florida where he studied for a degree in English. Despite supporting his family by undertaking freelance writing and art-and-graphic design to supplement his \"G.I. Bill\" pension, Meredith had to drop out in 1972 to take a full-time job at the \"Press Gazette\" in nearby Milton. There, as production supervisor, he was responsible for editorial page cartoons, a regular human interest column and graphic design, as well as supervising the overall production of the newspaper.\n\nMeredith's first hardcover novel \"At the Narrow Passage\" was published in 1973 by G.P. Putnam’s Sons. This was followed by the publication of \"No Brother, No Friend\" (1976) and \"Vestiges of Time\" (1978) by Doubleday. The three novels are commonly referred to as \"The Timeliner Trilogy\", but this series title was not applied until the books were reprinted in revised form by Playboy Press in 1979. Also notable from this period was the publication by Ballantine Books of Meredith's time travel novel \"Run, Come See Jerusalem!\" (1976).\n\nMeredith underwent spinal surgery in the Fall of 1974 and did not return to work until January 1975 when he helped to found the \"Santa Rosa Free Press\" and served as editor. \"Creative differences\" with the publisher and the accidental drowning of his son Jeff in July 1975 led Meredith to take a brief sabbatical during which he returned to West Virginia. There he considered his future and worked on various writing projects including \"Run, Come See Jerusalem!\" and \"No Brother, No Friend\", which he dedicated to his son.\n\nReturning to Florida, Meredith spent some time working as a copy editor for the \"National Enquirer\" before deciding to work entirely on a freelance basis undertaking writing, illustration and graphic design work. Beyond science fiction, Meredith's interests included painting, drawing and history. He also wrote poetry and privately published a volume of erotic poetry.\n\nMeredith died unexpectedly on 8 March 1979, aged only 41, following a stroke brought on by a brain hemorrhage.\n\nPrior to his death, St. Martin's Press had accepted Meredith's novel \"The Awakening\" for publication. The book, issued in June 1979, was a departure from Meredith's usual fare: it was a ghost story. The narrative runs along two timelines, one set during the American Civil War, while the other is set in 1970s Virginia, where the lead character shares a surprising number of parallels with Meredith himself. Meredith had also completed revisions to the three volumes of \"The Timeliner Trilogy\" to resolve some errors and inconsistencies in the storyline. Playboy Press published the trilogy in paperback over three months beginning in September 1979.\n\nMeredith's science fiction novels were reprinted by Hamlyn/Arrow Books between 1985 and 1988, but have since fallen out of print. Filmmaker Robert H. Gwinn has announced plans to reprint the books as part of a promotional campaign supporting a film adaption of \"The Timeliner Trilogy\".\n\nMeredith's works give unfamiliar twists to many familiar SF themes: A human Galactic empire and its struggle with a non-human rival (\"We All Died at Breakaway Station\") or with independence-seeking human subjects (\"The Sky Is Filled with Ships\"); a theocratic dictatorship, nuclear and biological warfare, and the effort to change history by time travel (\"Run, Come See Jerusalem!\"); or the \"sidewise\" travel into alternate histories and the struggle for control over a multitude of divergent timelines (\"The Timeliner Trilogy\").\n\nMeredith's protagonists tend to be highly motivated and devoted people, wholeheartedly taking up Earth- or Universe-shaking causes to which they give their all - and often discovering that they had been duped into serving an evil cause, or that an action taken with the best of intentions actually makes a bad situation worse. A reader opening a Meredith book can by no means count on a happy ending - indeed, some of the books can be classed as dystopias.\n\nIn the preface to \"Breakaway Station\", before the reader had yet met the protagonists, Meredith already tells that all of them would eventually die heroic deaths comparable to those of Leonidas and his three hundred at the Battle of Thermopylae — and indeed, the book duly comes to precisely that ending.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995867", "title": "Alexander Armstrong (disambiguation)", "text": "Alexander Armstrong (disambiguation)\n\nAlexander Armstrong (born 1970) is a British comedian and presenter.\n\nAlexander Armstrong or Alex Armstrong may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995868", "title": "Inverness Airport", "text": "Inverness Airport\n\nInverness Airport () is an international airport situated at Dalcross, north-east of the city of Inverness, Scotland. It is owned by Highlands and Islands Airports Limited (HIAL). The airport is the main gateway for travellers to Inverness and the North of Scotland with a range of scheduled services throughout the United Kingdom, and various scheduled services to Continental Europe. Charter and freight flights operate throughout the UK and Europe. Latest figures state 946,391 passengers passed through the airport in 2019. The airport is also headquarters to Dalcross Handling which now operates across Scotland.\n\nThe airfield was built by the Air Ministry in 1940 as Royal Air Force station Dalcross (RAF Dalcross), and was in use during the Second World War. \n\nThe following units were here at some point:\nThe airport was opened for civil operations in 1947. British European Airways, one of the predecessors of British Airways, commenced flights to London-Heathrow in the mid-1970s using a combination of Hawker Siddeley Trident jets and Vickers Viscounts. In the late 1970s and early 1980s there were two daily flights between Inverness and Heathrow; however, the route was discontinued in 1983 on the grounds of poor financial performance. Dan-Air inherited the service and offered a three-times daily service. The airline sustained the route adding links to London-Gatwick and Manchester in the late 1980s; however, these new services proved not to be successful and were discontinued.\n\nWhen Dan Air was bought by British Airways in 1992, the flag carrier retained the service for a further five years, adding a fourth daily frequency shortly before withdrawing the link, amid considerable controversy and public anger, in autumn 1997. British Airways transferred the London service to Gatwick, operated by its subsidiary on a three-times daily basis using lower capacity BAe 146 regional jets. The emergence of EasyJet as a force in UK aviation coincided with the launch of a daily service to London-Luton in 1996. Other destinations and airlines were added including; (Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, East Midlands, Leeds/Bradford, Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle), particularly after 2003, where HIAL's marketing efforts were assisted by route development fund support from the Scottish Executive. The Heathrow link was reinstated at a daily frequency in 2004 by BMI; however, the service was discontinued in March 2008, the airline citing rising costs at Heathrow as the reason.\n\nSince 1974, Inverness has been serviced weekly by non-commercial routes with Lorient (the 1st fishing port of France) in South Brittany. The companies Air Lorient, Diwan (Air Provence International) and Air Bretagne ensured the transport of sailors to the advanced bases in Scotland. Since 2005, Air ITM (Groupe Intermarché) has offered repatriation and replacement of sailors with a Hawker 400 jet aircraft.\n\nIn 2004, Thomson Holidays launched a short series of peak season charter flights to Palma de Mallorca, Ibiza and Lanzarote using Spanair aircraft, flights to Palma were maintained (and Reus was added for a couple of seasons) through to 2010. Newmarket Holidays still operates various charters from Inverness on selected dates throughout the year. In June 2017 Thomson Holidays returned with peak seasonal flights to Palma once more, using a chartered Air Europa Boeing 737-800.\n\nRyanair cut its last routes to East Midlands and Liverpool in June 2009. Eastern Airways launched services to Manchester and Birmingham. However, when Flybe started flying the same routes in 2008, Eastern decided to withdraw.\n\nInternational scheduled services proved difficult to successfully establish until the late 2000s, when a weekly seasonal service between Düsseldorf and Inverness commenced in summer 2009, operated by Lufthansa CityLine, and in 2011 when Flybe commenced daily operations to Amsterdam. The now-defunct Snowflake (a low-cost subsidiary of SAS) operated a twice-weekly service to Stockholm in the summer of 2004, however the service was withdrawn after a short period of operation, owing to lack of demand. KLM uk operated a daily service to Amsterdam via Edinburgh in 1997 but this was short-lived, lasting only a few months. ScotAirways launched a service to Amsterdam in 2001; however, this was withdrawn following the events of 11 September. A four-times-weekly service to Dublin was operated by Aer Arann between 2006 and 2008, before being withdrawn owing to escalating fuel prices.\n\nThe airport terminal is notable as an early example of the Public-private partnership favoured by the UK Government. HIAL was criticised for a PFI deal signed to build a new terminal at Inverness Airport. The deal signed by HIAL meant it had to pay £3.50 for every passenger flying from the airport to the PFI operator. In 2006, the PFI deal was cancelled, costing the Scottish Executive £27.5 million.\n\nThe airport is a hub on the Highlands and Islands network where flights between the islands, and other UK and European destinations connect. easyJet is currently the largest operator at Inverness, followed by Loganair.\n\nThe south apron, the main parking area for aircraft, was upgraded in May 2012 to improve access to the terminal by long-range aircraft. In November 2013 the airport's mile long runway was resurfaced and the taxiway extended, providing a link to the site of the Inverness Airport Business Park. However, the Business Park has struggled to become established.\n\nOn 3 May 2016, British Airways reinstated daily flights to Heathrow after an absence of 19 years. In the same month KLM Cityhopper launched daily flights to Amsterdam. Following the success of the route, it was increased to twice daily from March 2017. From March 2018, British Airways increased their flights to Heathrow from 7 to 10 weekly. Dalcross Handling, a local company, is the airline ground handler while Swissport operates the 'Aspire' business lounge in the Departure Lounge.\n\nIn anticipation of the greatly increased passenger capacity, HIAL announced a major expansion of the terminal building. This consisted of expansion of the departure lounge for additional seating and retail outlets, an extension containing a new international arrivals area, and an enlarged security search area.\n\nOn 13 November 2017, Loganair announced two new routes; a seasonal route to Norwich twice a week over the peak summer months, though this was scrapped three months before the planned launch. A new direct year-round service to Bergen was also announced. This service would operate 3 times weekly and would use the same BMI aircraft as the Manchester route, which allows same-plane service to Bergen for passengers from Manchester, along with the Inverness passengers.\n\nIn July 2018, HIAL announced that it was running an online poll to gauge public response to the idea of changing the airport's name to \"Inverness Loch Ness Airport\" to help boost tourism. However the public rejected the name change with 88% of those surveyed against it.\n\nThe following airlines operate regular scheduled and charter services at Inverness Airport:\n\n\nInverness Airport had 946,391 passengers in 2019, which was an increase of 4.8% from 2018. Gatwick Airport was again the most popular destination with 261,838 passengers. This route accounts for more than thirty percent of all passenger traffic at Inverness Airport, with all London routes combined accounting for under sixty percent of passenger traffic. Shown below are the top thirteen destinations in 2018.\n\nA planning permission application was lodged for a 130-room development to be built at the Inverness Airport Business Park, near to the airport, that could provide hotel facilities. Construction commenced in January 2019, with the Courtyard by Marriott hotel finally due to open March 2020. Construction problems have beset and delayed the opening.\n\nBus services operate between Inverness Airport, Inverness, Nairn and Elgin. Stagecoach in Inverness run between the airport and Inverness city centre close to the railway station. Jet bus offers a 24-hour service between Inverness Centre and the Airport, every 20 min at peak times and then at the hour off peak Monday - Saturday.\n\nThere is no station at Inverness Airport yet, although the Aberdeen–Inverness line runs along the southern perimeter of the airfield. A new station at the airport was approved in February 2017 and is still not open. Timeline of construction has been dragged back and now new plans are to be submitted for a larger station at the end of 2019; at present the nearest stations are Nairn and Inverness, both about away. The new station is estimated to be started between 2020 and 2024.\n\nThe airport is northeast of the city of Inverness just off the main A96 Aberdeen-Inverness trunk road.\n\nAccess from the A96 was previously by a single track road (suitable only for smaller vehicles) or alternatively by the B9093 Ardersier road. When the airport installed the new instrument landing system the single track road had to be closed altogether. In April 2006 a new road, Inverness Airport Way, was opened providing full access to all vehicles from the airport direct to the A96.However most \ntraffic still uses the old Ardersier road as it is far quicker . The new road skirts the western perimeter of the airport in a large loop and is provided with ‘wig-wag’ signals if road traffic needs to be stopped during aircraft landing/take off.\n\nTaxis are available directly in front of the terminal building.\n\nThis museum is situated in the Dalcross Industrial Estate immediately adjacent to the airport. It has four complete aircraft and several aircraft noses on display. The museum is open to the public at weekends and bank holidays.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995876", "title": "Billy Mackenzie", "text": "Billy Mackenzie\n\nWilliam MacArthur MacKenzie (27 March 1957 – 22 January 1997) was a Scottish singer and songwriter, known for his distinctive high tenor voice. He was the co-founder and lead singer of post-punk and new wave band the Associates.\n\nWilliam MacArthur MacKenzie was born on 27 March 1957 in Dundee, Scotland. As a youngster, he lived on Park Avenue in the Stobswell area of the city. He attended St Mary's Forebank Primary School and St Michael's Secondary School. He led a peripatetic lifestyle, decamping to New Zealand at the age of 16, and travelling across America aged 17. Here he married Chloe Dummar, the sister-in-law of his Aunt Veronica. While MacKenzie was quoted as saying the marriage was made to stave off deportation so that he could sing with the New Orleans Gospel Choir – calling his wife a 'Dolly Parton type' – Dummar still believes the pair were in love. He left her after three months of marriage and returned to Dundee, and the two never had contact again. Chloe Dummar filed for divorce in 1980, and MacKenzie did not contest the filing. (Chloe's brother was Melvin Dummar, who claimed to be the \"one sixteenth\" beneficiary of the estate of Howard Hughes until the case was thrown out in 1978.)\n\nMacKenzie returned to Scotland where he met Alan Rankine and in 1976 formed the Ascorbic Ones. They changed the name to Mental Torture and finally the Associates in 1979. Rankine left the Associates in 1982, but MacKenzie continued to work under the name for several years until he began releasing material under his own name in the 1990s.\n\nMackenzie also collaborated with many other artists during his career. Mackenzie had a fruitful partnership with Paul Haig, the result being low key dates in Glasgow and Edinburgh during the mid 80s, which mixed their own greatest hits with covers of songs such as Sly and the Family Stone's \"Runnin' Away\" and Yoko Ono's \"Walking on Thin Ice\". Later the pair united to perform \"Amazing Grace\" on a Scots Hogmanay television programme, and each donated a song to the other's forthcoming album. \"Chained\" proved a highlight on the next Haig album, although Mackenzie's version of \"Reach the Top\" remained unreleased after the Associates' \"Glamour Chase\" project was shelved by WEA. Following Mackenzie's untimely death in 1997 an entire album of Haig and Mackenzie material, \"Memory Palace\", appeared on Haig's own label Rhythm of Life. \n\nIn 1987, he wrote lyrics for two tracks on Yello's album \"One Second\": \"Moon on Ice\", which he sang himself, and \"The Rhythm Divine\", which was sung by Shirley Bassey and was released as a single. A version sung by MacKenzie was released on the tape and CD versions of Associates' \"Popera\" compilation). MacKenzie also collaborated with British Electric Foundation for their two albums \"Music of Quality and Distinction\" Volume I (1982) & Volume II (1991). His final recording was the song \"Pain in Any Language\", with Apollo 440. The band made a dedication to MacKenzie in the album notes to the LP Electro Glide in Blue.\n\nOn 22 January 1997, depression and the death of his mother are believed to have contributed to Mackenzie's suicide. He overdosed on a combination of paracetamol and prescription medication in the garden shed of his father's house in Auchterhouse, Angus. He was 39 years old.\n\nHe was the subject of a biography by Tom Doyle, \"The Glamour Chase\", in 1998.\n\nSiouxsie Sioux wrote the song \"Say\", revealing in the lyrics that they were going to meet just before his death. The song was released as a single by the Creatures in 1999, peaking at No. 72 in the UK Singles Chart. The Cure song \"Cut Here\" in 2001, written by Robert Smith, a friend of Mackenzie, is about the regret Smith felt about seeing Mackenzie a few weeks before his death backstage at a Cure concert, and not giving him any of his 'precious time' and fobbing him off. For her \"Medúlla\" album, Icelandic singer Björk considered singing a beyond the grave duet with Mackenzie using recordings given to her by his father, but eventually decided against it.\n\nBetween 9 and 27 June 2009, a play entitled \"Balgay Hill\" about the story of Mackenzie's life was showing at Dundee Repertory Theatre, in Mackenzie's home town. It tells the story of his life through the eyes of four fictional characters, and the title of the play derives from the name of the Dundee cemetery where the singer was buried.\n\nThe novel \"Spying on Strange Men\" by Carole Morin, contains the following section:\n\nMorin said in an interview:I was devastated by his death which is odd because I didn't know him. My husband did. Mackenzie’s death affected me in a way that Ian Curtis's didn't. Curtis seemed born to die. Mackenzie should have outgrown his gloom and become an eccentric old man. I think our work is similar. It's the duality of glamour and spirituality in his voice that attracts me. His toughness and fragility; darkness and laughter. He could be a character from one of my books. I always meant to send him a copy of \"Dead Glamorous\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\"† lyrics by Mackenzie\"\n\"‡ also appear on \"Auchtermatic\"\n\n\"(6 of MacKenzie's Yello tracks later released on the \"Essential Yello\" album) (1992)\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995879", "title": "Anglo-Chinese School (Barker Road)", "text": "Anglo-Chinese School (Barker Road)\n\nAnglo-Chinese School (Barker Road) () is a secondary school of the Anglo-Chinese School family located at the Barker Road campus, Singapore. It offers the GCE 'O' Level Course for its students from Sec 1 to Sec 4/5. Students may then move on to Anglo-Chinese Junior College or Anglo-Chinese School (Independent). It has provided opportunities for its feeder students to continue with an ACS Education at a secondary level. ACS was also the first school in Singapore to have a flower named after it, the Ascocenda Anglo-Chinese School orchid, a hybrid created by the school to mark its 116th Founder's Day on 1 March 2002. ACS has many partner schools such as Anglo-Chinese School (Junior) and Anglo Chinese Junior College. The school is close to Newton MRT station.\n\nIt was a full school which subsumed Anglo-Chinese School (Primary) as its primary school section until 1998, when the school split into two. The school has been based at the newly rebuilt Barker Road campus since 2003. Its principal is Loo Ming Yaw while long-serving principal Ng Eng Chin is now heading ACS Jakarta and Peter Tan Chong Tze is now heading Queensway Secondary School.\n\nIn 1999, ACS (Barker Road) moved out of the campus after a closing ceremony on 4 November, to allow the campus to be redeveloped. An issue developed after plans were revealed to dismantle the historic Art Deco clock tower facing Dunearn Road due to safety concerns. This conflict was resolved and the dismantling went ahead. A replica now stands 20 metres from the old clock tower, with the original clock mechanism installed in the new tower.\n\nThe 5.2-hectare campus now contains the primary and secondary blocks of ACS (Primary) and ACS (Barker Road) respectively. In between the primary and secondary buildings is an administrative block housing the administrative office as well as the two libraries. The landscaped, open-air Student Plaza links the three buildings together. The cafeteria, bookstore, CCA rooms and Music Studios are one floor below the Plaza. The Arts Centre contains the Mrs Lee Choon Guan Concert Hall, Tan Cheng Siong Drama Theatre and the Lee Kong Chian Auditorium which can seat 830, 270 and 1,200 respectively.\n\nThe sports complex also sits on the campus, containing the Shaw Pool and the Tan Chin Tuan Sports Hall. The Sports Hall has three basketball courts, a racket centre, full recreational facilities including a gym and changing rooms. The Olympic-size pool has eight lanes. The Transport Centre/carpark is below the complex.\n\nBarker Road Methodist Church and the Methodist Centre (housing the Methodist Church in Singapore) have also been relocated to the redeveloped Barker Road campus. ACS Oldham Hall has also been renovated with improved facilities, such as air-conditioning in some rooms, a cafeteria, and the capacity to house 500 borders. The Barker Road campus was designed by SAA Architects Pte and the entire project cost was S$95 million, of which S$15 million had to be raised by the school. In 2004, the campus won the CIDB Award for Construction Excellence.\n\nConstruction is underway for a new sports facility featuring two indoor sports halls and an artificial field, known as the AstroTurf. Along with this, a new 7-story building is being built for academic purposes, near the site of the clock tower. Construction is expected to be completed by the end of 2019.\n\nIn the traditional strengths of swimming and waterpolo, the school teams consistently ranked in the top four placings at the national championships. In 2009, the C div Rugby team reached the finals after beating St Andrews in the Semi-finals. And faced their brother school ACS(I) for the finals, with Chan Howard Ho Wai drawing first blood by scoring the first try of the match for ACS (Barker Road) but eventually lost when the game ended with ACS(I) winning by 21 - 15. In 2006, the school accomplished the 2nd placings in Waterpolo for both 'C' and 'B' division at the Inter-School National Championships. It was the first time in history that the 'C' Division made it into the finals and the second time the 'B' div made it to the finals. The first time the 'B' div won and made its lone appearance in the finals dates back to 2002. In 2009, the ACS(BR) water polo 'B' Division (Also Known as Barker Titans) was the first school in Singapore to have won the School Nationals consecutively for three years in a row (2007,2008,2009).In 2007, ACS(BR) edged out its brother School ACS(I) 7-5 in the waterpolo final with 2 superb shots from Rahul Shankar Pandey in extra time. In 2008, ACS(BR) yet again edged out ACS(I) 10-7 despite a slow start, but made history by repeating as champions and remained unbeaten for that season. In 2009, ACS(BR) faced stiffed competition from their younger counterparts from ACS(I) but managed to beat them with a tight score of 6-5. In rugby union, exchange programmes have been held in other countries to gain experience and develop team-building skills. The school came in 3rd in 2006 and has also been consistently ranked among the top four in Singapore. Other sports are snooker and bowling which have also come in 1st and 3rd respectively. These achievements garnered the Sustained Achievement Award for 2006.\n\nSince 2006, Drama has been earmarked as a niche area for growth in the school, following in the footsteps of Anglo-Chinese Junior College which has offered the Drama Elective Programme to its students. Media related CCAs have also made an impact on a national level.\n\nIn 2013, Anglo-Chinese School (Barker Road) received the Distinction Award for all Performing Arts in the biannual Singapore Youth Festival Arts Presentation.\n\n\nCo-curricular activities are part of the education provided at ACS (Barker Road), with an emphasis on Drama and the performing arts, and particular sports like Badminton, Basketball, Water Polo and Handball. Every student is required to participate in a minimum of one core CCA with at least a 75% attendance track record.\n\nThe school also holds an annual event for the Performing Art CCAs which is called Arts Nite.\n\nNathan Hartono\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995883", "title": "Zarzal", "text": "Zarzal\n\nZarzal () is a town and municipality in the north of the department of Valle del Cauca in Colombia. Its economy is based primarily on the extensive cultivation of sugar cane, on small and medium enterprises in the metallurgic sector, and on utilities. Commerce is also of great importance, because a great number of warehouses for basic necessity goods exist in the city. A marketplace also exists, which serves as reference for various cities that are close by. Zarzal has a population of about 50,000 inhabitants. New city districts were constructed in the center of the city; it has now become difficult to find bare land inside the city.\n\nThe territory is mostly flat within the valley of the Cauca River, a river that flows into La Paila River. The municipality is also home to the forest of the Caracolíes, Los Chorros, Cumba recreational park, La Paila river, Mount Caré and Mount Pan de Azúcar.\n\nThe municipality of Zarzal is one of the region with most production of sugar cane and sugar refineries. The municipality is home to two major companies; the Rio Paila Sugar Company and the Colombina Candy Factory.\n\nBesides the cane and sugar production other agricultural products are produced in the municipality: plantain, yuca, cotton, maize, sorghum, sugar cane, soy, grapes, papaya, passionfruit, pitaya, citrics like oranges andlimes, mango, guava, avocado and chontaduro. Some are used for cattle raising and for a small industrial fishing industry that produces tilapia, cachama, peacock bass and bocachico.\n\nThe Zarzal satellite of the Universidad del Valle (University of Valle)  has a population of 1200 students in all of its academic programs, as well as its own Universidad del Valle site. It was founded in 1986 and operates in an area known for its heavy agricultural activity. The Zarzal satellite offers academic programs that strengthen the development of the region. It serves people in the areas of Andalucía, Bolívar, Bugalagrande, El Dovio, La Unión, Obando, Roldanillo, Versalles, Toro, and Zarzal. Different social organizations that exist in many of these municipalities have participated, or at least were evaluated, in local development projects. \n\nOn April 1, 2011 the city's mayoral office has donated a lot in the city's south zone that lies near the small town of La Paila. This lot extends to a length of four to five Hectares and will house the University Campus of the Zarzal Regional Seat. This decision occurred during the Zarzal Satellite Hearing, which was presided over by the only notary of the city of Zarzal, dean Iván Enrique Ramos Calderón, Zarzal satellite director Cecilian Madriñan Polo, the mayor, the city council, and the university community. \n\nThe new campus will have classrooms, auditoriums, laboratories (for investigation, languages, foods, electronics, mathematics, and systems) and areas for sport and cultural activities (theatres, sport fields/courts, a gymnasium, and a pool) that will cater to the needs of the students in the municipality of Zarzal and its surrounding area of influence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995888", "title": "James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Arran", "text": "James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Arran\n\nJames Hamilton, 1st Earl of Arran and 2nd Lord Hamilton (c. 14751529) was a Scottish nobleman, naval commander and first cousin of James IV of Scotland.\n\nHe was the eldest of two sons of James Hamilton, 1st Lord Hamilton, and his wife, Mary Stewart, Countess of Arran. Mary was a daughter of King James II of Scotland and his Queen consort Mary of Guelders, and a sister of King James III of Scotland.\n\nHamilton succeeded to his father's lordship, inheriting his lands when his father died in 1479. In 1489 his first cousin King James IV made him Sheriff of Lanark, a position his father had previously held, and a Scottish Privy Counsellor. By 28 April 1490 he was married to Elizabeth Home, daughter of Alexander Home, 2nd Lord Home.\n\nBetween April and August 1502, Hamilton commanded a naval fleet sent to help King Hans of Denmark, James IV's uncle, defeat a Swedish rebellion. He negotiated James's marriage to Margaret Tudor and was present at the wedding on 8 August 1503. On the same day Lord Hamilton was created Earl of Arran, with the formal grant three days later, \"for his nearness of blood\" and his services at the time of the marriage. He was appointed Lieutenant General of Scotland and in May 1504 commanded a naval expedition to suppress an uprising in the Western Isles.\n\nIn September 1507, James IV sent Hamilton as his ambassador on a diplomatic mission to the court of Louis XII of France. When returning in early 1508, he was briefly detained in the Kingdom of England by Henry VII, who was suspicious of a renewal of the Auld Alliance between Scotland and France.\n\nWhen Henry VIII of England joined the War of the League of Cambrai by invading France in 1513, Scotland came under pressure to support France against England. Hamilton was given command of the Scottish naval fleet. He first sailed to Ulster and attacked Carrickfergus, the main English stronghold there. The fleet then sailed to France, arriving there in September 1513, too late to be much help as the Scottish army had been defeated at the Battle of Flodden in England on 9 September, with James IV being killed in battle.\n\nDuring the minority of King James V, Hamilton opposed Archibald Douglas, 6th Earl of Angus and the English party. He plotted against the Regent John Stewart, 2nd Duke of Albany, and was president of the council of regency during Albany's absence in France from 1517 to 1520. The same year he led an expedition to the border to punish the murderers of the French knight Antoine d'Arces (\"De la Bastie\").\n\nHe was defeated in an attempt to overpower Angus in the streets of Edinburgh in 1520, a riot known as \"Cleanse the Causeway\". He was again a member of the council of regency in 1522 and Lieutenant of the South. He joined the Queen Dowager Margaret Tudor in ousting Albany and proclaiming James V in 1524.\n\nIn the same year, Hamilton was compelled by Henry VIII of England to readmit Angus to the council. He supported Angus against John Stewart, 3rd Earl of Lennox in 1526 at the Battle of Linlithgow Bridge, but on the escape of James V from the Douglases, Hamilton received Bothwell from Angus's forfeited estates.\n\nJames Hamilton was married firstly, around 1490, to Elizabeth Home, daughter of Alexander Home, 2nd Lord Home by his second wife, Nichola Ker. The marriage was dissolved in 1506, when it was found that her first husband Thomas Hay, a son of John Hay, 1st Lord Hay of Yester, was still alive at the time of the wedding.\n\nIn November 1504, Hamilton had been granted a divorce from Elizabeth Home on the grounds that she had previously been married to Thomas Hay. Hay had apparently left the country and was thought to be dead when Hamilton married Home, in or before 1490, but in fact he did not die until 1491 or later. This award of divorce was repeated in 1510, suggesting that Hamilton had continued living with her, after 1504, and was held by some to undermine the dissolution of the first marriage as invalid. It is likely that the real motive for divorcing Elizabeth was that she had not born any children, and that Hamilton wanted a legitimate heir; he already had several illegitimate children, his eldest illegitimate son being James Hamilton of Finnart. The complicated legal issues of the first marriage would continue to trouble his heir, whose legitimacy was questioned by his rivals in 1543.\n\nHamilton was married secondly, in November 1516, to Janet Bethune, daughter of Sir David Betoun of Creich, and widow of Sir Robert Livingstone of Easter Wemyss, who had been killed at the Battle of Flodden. Arran and Janet Bethune had at least four children:\n\nHamilton had further illegitimate issue.\n\nChildren of James Hamilton and his mistress, Beatrix Drummond, daughter of John Drummond, 1st Lord Drummond and Lady Elizabeth Lindsay:\n\nHe is an ancestor of Alexander Hamilton.\n\nIn terms of YDNA James Hamilton is assumed to have carried the I-L1237 subclade of the I-Z63 haplogroup.\n"}
{"id": "1995890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995890", "title": "Wat (food)", "text": "Wat (food)\n\nWat, we̠t’, wot (, ) or tsebhi (, ) is an Ethiopian and Eritrean stew or curry that may be prepared with chicken, beef, lamb, a variety of vegetables, spice mixtures such as \"berbere\", and \"niter kibbeh\", a seasoned clarified butter.\n\nSeveral properties distinguish wats from stews of other cultures. Perhaps the most obvious is an unusual cooking technique: the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked, without any fat or oil, in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away. Fat (usually niter kibbeh) is then added, and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients. This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew.\n\nWat is traditionally eaten with injera, a spongy flat bread made from the millet-like grain known as teff. There are many types of wats. The popular ones are doro wat and siga wat, (Ge'ez: ሥጋ \"śigā\") made with beef.\n\nDoro wat ( \"dōrō we̠t’\", \"derhō tsebhi\"), made from chicken and sometimes hard-boiled eggs is the most popular traditional food in Ethiopia, often eaten as part of a group who share a communal bowl and basket of injera.\nA Jewish version of doro wat is eaten by the Beta Israel (Ethiopian Jews) called \"Sanbat Wat\" (Sabbath Wat). Sanbat Wat is a traditional Shabbat dish. In order to avoid mixing of meat and dairy, vegetable oil can be used as a parev substitute in lieu of ghee. Yeqimem zeyet, a form of niter kibbeh made from vegetable oil, can also be used.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995893", "title": "Grace Ingalls", "text": "Grace Ingalls\n\nGrace Pearl Ingalls Dow (; May 23, 1877 in Burr Oak, Iowa – November 10, 1941 in Manchester, South Dakota) was the fifth and last child of Caroline and Charles Ingalls. She was the youngest sister of Laura Ingalls Wilder, known for her \"Little House on the Prairie\" books.\n\nFollowing public school, Grace Ingalls studied to become a schoolteacher. After completing her training, she taught in the nearby town of Manchester, South Dakota, seven miles west of De Smet, South Dakota, where her family had settled. On October 16, 1901, she married Nathan William Dow in the parlor of her parents' home in De Smet.\nBesides being a farm wife, Dow dabbled in journalism like her older sister Carrie, acting as a stringer for several local newspapers later in her life. After her parents' deaths, she and Carrie took care of their eldest sister Mary, who was blind.\n\nDow died of complications from diabetes in Manchester, South Dakota on November 10, 1941 at age 64. Diabetes ran in the Ingalls family and Laura, Carrie, and Grace all died from the complications of the disease, Dow being the first Ingalls sibling to succumb. She is buried near the Ingalls family plot at De Smet Cemetery in De Smet, South Dakota; her husband is buried next to her. The couple had no children.\n\nDow was portrayed in the television adaptations of Little House on the Prairie by:\n\n"}
{"id": "1995898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995898", "title": "Sheffield Park (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sheffield Park (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSheffield Park was a Parliamentary constituency in the City of Sheffield, England. The constituency was created in 1918 and abolished in 1983. The area formerly covered by this constituency is now mostly in the Sheffield Central constituency.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Sheffield wards of Heeley and Park.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Sheffield wards of Manor, Moor, Park, and Sharrow.\n\n1955–1974: The County Borough of Sheffield wards of Burngreave, Manor, Moor, and Park.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Sheffield wards of Burngreave, Castle, Manor, Park, and Sharrow.\n\nIn the 1942 by-election, Thomas Burden was elected unopposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995903", "title": "Berthold Carl Seemann", "text": "Berthold Carl Seemann\n\nBerthold Carl Seemann (25 February 1825, in Hanover, Germany – 10 October 1871, in Nicaragua, Central America), was a German botanist. He travelled widely and collected and described plants from the Pacific and South America.\n\nIn 1844 he travelled to the United Kingdom to studied botany at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. On the recommendation of Sir WJ Hooker, he was appointed naturalist on the voyage of exploration of the American west coast and Pacific by Henry Kellett on HMS \"Herald\", 1847–1851, along with the naturalists Thomas Edmondston, and John Goodridge. The expedition returned via Hawaii, Hong Kong and the East Indies, calling at the Cape in March 1851. Here he met up with his old acquaintance Zeyher, and with Baur and Juritz they climbed Table Mountain on 13 March 1851, Ecklon being unwell and unable to accompany them. On 16 March Zeyher introduced him to Bowie at Wynberg. He left the Cape on 27 March and was back in England on 6 June 1851. The botanical results of the voyage were published as \"Botany of the Voyage of HMS Herald\" and he was awarded a Ph.D. by the University of Göttingen in 1853.\n\nIn 1859 he travelled to Fiji and published a botanical catalogue of the flora of the islands, entitled \"Flora Vitiensis\". It was the foundation for \"Flora Vitiensis Nova\", published by Albert C. Smith from 1979 to 1991. In the 1860s he visited South America, travelling in Venezuela in 1864 and Nicaragua from 1866 to 1867. He later managed a sugar estate in Panama and the Javali gold mine in Nicaragua, where he finally succumbed to malaria.\n\nHe started and edited the journal \"Bonplandia\" from 1853–1862 and the \"Journal of Botany, British and Foreign\" from 1863–1871.\n\n\"Revision of the natural order Hederaceae\" was a series of articles written by Seemann on what is now called the family Araliaceae. They appeared in the \"Journal of Botany, British and Foreign\" from 1864 to 1868. In 1868, Seemann published a book by the same title. It contained some original material, as well as reprints of the articles. It was the definitive work on Araliaceae until Hermann Harms published his monograph on the family in \"Die Natürlichen Pflanzenfamilien\" in 1898.\n\nThe plant genus \"Seemannia\" Regel. (Gesneriaceae), \"Seemannantha\" Alef. and \"Seemannaralia\" R. Viguier (Araliaceae) were named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995911", "title": "Howard Davis (professor of architecture)", "text": "Howard Davis (professor of architecture)\n\nHoward Davis is an American writer and professor of architecture at the University of Oregon in Eugene. A native of New York City, he studied physics at Cooper Union and at Northwestern University and received a master's degree in architecture from the University of California, Berkeley, where he worked with Christopher Alexander. He has worked on projects in the Pacific Northwest, India, England, Mexico and Israel.\n\nHe is known for his research into vernacular architecture and building history, published in the book \"The Culture of Building\" (1999, reprinted in paperback 2006). He also collaborated with Christopher Alexander on \"The Production of Houses\" (1985), an account of an innovative housing project in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico. His current research is concerned with urban buildings that combine commercial and residential uses; museums and memorials to war; housing; and American architectural education. His latest book is \"Living Over the Store: Architecture and Local Urban Life.\" Davis was founding co-editor of \"Buildings & Landscapes\", the journal of the Vernacular Architecture Forum.\n\nThe Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture honored Davis with the ACSA Distinguished Professor Award in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995914", "title": "Wim Crouwel", "text": "Wim Crouwel\n\nWillem Hendrik \"Wim\" Crouwel (; 21 November 1928 – 19 September 2019) was a Dutch graphic designer, type designer, and typographer.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1949, he studied Fine Arts at Academie Minerva in Groningen, the Netherlands. In addition, he studied typography at what is now the Gerrit Rietveld Academie in Amsterdam.\n\nCrouwel began his career in 1955 creating exhibition, graphic, and product designs along with Kho Liang Ie. In 1963, he was one of the founders of the design studio Total Design (currently named Total Identity). From 1964 onwards, Crouwel was responsible for the design of the posters, catalogues and exhibitions of the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. In 1967 he designed the typeface New Alphabet, a design that embraces the limitations of the cathode ray tube technology used by early data display screens and phototypesetting equipment, thus only containing horizontal and vertical strokes. Other typefaces from his hand are Fodor and Gridnik. In 1970 he designed the Dutch pavilion for Expo '70 (Osaka, Japan). Later, Crouwel designed the Number Postage Stamps for the Dutch PTT, well known in the Netherlands during its circulation from 1976-2002.\n\nIn the years Crouwel worked for Total Design, he designed many geometric wordmarks, one of which is the wordmark for the Dutch Rabobank, designed in 1973. The lettershapes have been influenced by the fact that the wordmark had to be used as a 3D light box. After the 3D application was finalized, the 2D design for print was adapted.\n\nAccording to Wim Crouwel, New Alphabet was \"‘over-the-top and never meant to be really used’\". However, as unreadable as it was, it made a comeback in 1988 when designer Brett Wickens used a version of the font on the sleeve of Substance by Joy Division.\n\nIn addition to his work as a graphic designer, he was also active in the educational field. In the 1950s he worked as a teacher at the Royal Academy for Art and Design in 's-Hertogenbosch (currently called Akademie Voor Kunst en Vormgeving St. Joost or AKV|St. Joost) and at the predecessor of what is now the Gerrit Rietveld Academie. Between 1965 and 1985 he was connected to the department of industrial design of the Delft University of Technology. From 1987 to 1993 he was extraordinary professor in the fields of History, Arts and Culture Studies at the Erasmus University Rotterdam. In the years 1985–1993 he was the director of the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam.\n\nCrouwel's graphic work is especially well known, and respected for the use of grid-based layouts and typography that is rooted in the International Typographic Style.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995915", "title": "Mind Playing Tricks on Me", "text": "Mind Playing Tricks on Me\n\n\"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" is a single by the Geto Boys, featured on their 1991 album \"We Can't Be Stopped\".\nThe lyrics describe the mental anguish and exhaust of life as a gangster, including dealing with symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder, paranoia, suicidal ideation, and loneliness. The song samples \"Hung Up On My Baby\" by Isaac Hayes, from his 1974 film \"Tough Guys\". At the song's peak, it reached 23 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, making it the highest charting single by the Geto Boys. \n\nThe song was originally intended for a Scarface solo album as he penned three of the song's four verses. However, the Geto Boys' label, Rap-A-Lot Records, decided that the record would be more valuable as a breakout single for the group.\n\nOn an episode of Yo! MTV Raps: Classic Cuts, Scarface and his grandmother spoke about how she inspired the track \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\". Scarface's grandmother was reportedly mumbling to herself, and when asked, \"'Mama, what you talkin' about?'\" replied, \"'Oh, nothing, my mind's just playing tricks on me'\".\n\n\"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" has received critical praise since it was first released. In 2012, Rolling Stone Magazine ranked it the fifth greatest hip-hop song of all time. The song was ranked number 18 out of 100 Best Rap Songs Of All Time by LiveAbout. VH1 ranked the song 82 on its list of the 100 Greatest Songs of the 90's, and 45 on its list of the 100 Greatest Songs of Hip Hop. Pitchfork Media ranked the song 45 on its Top 200 Tracks of the 1990s list, with reviewer Tom Breihan writing, \"this track established the South as a serious force in the music, proving that these Texans could do dark better than anyone on either coast.\" The song was also included in \"The Pitchfork 500\", a compilation book of the greatest 500 songs from 1976 to 2006.\n\nOn a 2019 episode of NPR's Morning Edition, Rodney Carmichael described the song as unique because at the time of its release it emphasized the trauma and vulnerability of life in the streets.\n\n\"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" has been referenced and sampled by numerous artists. The Kottonmouth Kings made a cover of the song for their 2001 album, \".\" The Insane Clown Posse also covered the song with Anybody Killa (also known as ABK) and Lil Wyte on their 2012 album, \"Smothered, Covered & Chunked.\" Brazilian rapper, Gabriel o Pensador sampled \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" in his song, \"Lavagem Cerebral\", from the 1993 album, . \n\n\"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" was referenced by Prodigy, in his single, \"Mac 10 Handle\". Ice Cube referenced the song in, \"When Will They Shoot\". Hip-hop duo, Clipse, referenced the Geto Boys song on \"Nightmares\", off of their 2006 album, \"Hell Hath No Fury\". The Notorious B.I.G. interpolates \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" on the 1994 song, \"One More Chance\". In the OutKast song, \"She Lives in My Lap\", Andre 3000 samples Scarface's vocals from the track. The Game's track, \"Walk in the Streets\" references the song with the lines: \"\"Must I remind you that Geto Boy track/Your mind is playin' tricks on you, you'll never go plat\"\". The Game further references the Geto Boys' track in his 2010 song, \"Big Money\", with the hook, \"\"I got big money, I drive big cars/Everybody know me/It's like I'm a movie star\"\". Beanie Sigel's \"Feel It In the Air\" off of his 2005 album, \"The B. Coming\" samples Scarface's introduction to the song by rapping, \"\"I sit alone in my four cornered room starring at hammers\"\". Destiny's Child interpolates \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" in their 1998 song, \"Illusion\", featuring Wyclef and Pras, from their self-titled debut album. A vocal sample from \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" is used in Killer Mike's \"Big Money, Big Cars\" featuring Chamillionaire and Messy Marv released in 2008 on the album, I Pledge Allegiance to the Grind II. Additionally, rapper Jean Grae references Geto Boys' rapper, Bushwick Bill's dream sequence from \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" in her 2004 song, \"Going Crazy\". \n\nIn a 2012 Complex Magazine interview, rapper Kid Cudi cited \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" as his \"favourite song in the world\". Kid Cudi further revealed that the song was the inspiration for his hit single, \"Day 'n' Nite\", saying, \"I love it so much I wanted to make my own version of it. And then \"Day 'n' Nite\" came out of it\". Kid Cudi later sampled the song on his third studio album, \"Indicud\" (2013), on the track \"Beez\" featuring Wu-Tang Clan member, RZA.\n\nIn the 2018 Netflix television miniseries, Maniac, \"Mind Playing Tricks on Me\" is featured in the first episode, The Chosen One!\n\n"}
{"id": "1995918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995918", "title": "Business.com", "text": "Business.com\n\nBusiness.com is a digital media company and B2B web destination which offers various performance marketing advertising, including lead generation products on a pay per lead and pay per click basis, directory listings, and display advertising. The site covers business industry news and trends for growth companies and the B2B community to stay up-to-date, and hosted more than 15,000 pieces of content as of November 2014. Business.com operates as a subsidiary of the Purch Group since being acquired in 2016.\n\nHaving sold their brands to Future, Purch's existing B2B assets later reorganised into Business.com.\n\nBusiness.com, Inc. was founded in 1999 by Jake Winebaum, previously chairman of the Walt Disney Internet Group; and Sky Dayton, founder of Earthlink, Boingo Wireless, and Helio, among others. Around that time, the Business.com domain name was purchased from Marc Ostrofsky by Winebaum's eCompanies Ventures for $7.5 million. In addition to investment by eCompanies, early funding in the amount of $61 million was provided in 2000 by Pearson PLC, Reed Business Information, McGraw Hill, and others. In its initial form, Business.com aimed to be the Internet's leading search engine for small business and corporate information.\n\nBusiness.com struggled through the Dot-com bubble years. The company retooled beginning in 2002 after massive layoffs and a new focus on developing a pay for performance ad network model. In April 2003, the company achieved profitability, and on November 8, 2004, the company secured an additional $10 million in venture capital funding from Benchmark Capital.\n\nOn October 9, 2006, Business.com launched Work.com, a site with business how-to guides contributed by the small business community. Work.com was sold in March 2012 and is now owned by Salesforce.com.\n\nThen on July 26, 2007, after beating out Dow Jones & Company, the New York Times Company, IAC/InterActiveCorp, and News Corp, print and interactive marketing company R.H. Donnelley Corporation announced plans to acquire Business.com in a deal valued at $345 million. The deal closed on August 23, 2007.\n\nIn June 2009, R.H. Donnelley filed for bankruptcy. The company emerged from Chapter 11 as Dex One Corporation on February 1, 2010.\n\nIn February 2011, Resource Nation acquired the brand and associated assets of Business.com to become one of the largest online destinations for business buyers looking for business-to-business (B2B) solutions. JMI Equity, a growth equity firm that specializes in investments in internet companies, provided funding in support of the transaction and the Company's ongoing growth. Terms of the transactions were not disclosed.\n\nIn January 2013, the appointment of Tony Uphoff as CEO was announced. Uphoff was most recently CEO of UBM TechWeb and named a Top 100 business media exec by B2B Magazine and a \"Top Media Innovator \" by Mins B2B in 2009. In March 2013, Business.com launched a site refresh, new logo and new suite of products.\n\nIn August, 2014, the Business.com website was relaunched expanding beyond a home page and refresh that happened in March 2013. The backend technology was all updated including a new content management platform, in-house analytics, and big data platform to capture every behavior of the audience to deliver contextually relevant content based on the intent and navigation path. According to the CEO, a major emphasis was also put on responsive web design, removal of pages that were not valuable to the audience, and allowing a new content platform to drive the site experience.\n\nIn June 2016, Business.com was acquired by Purch Group. Business.com was not included in the Future plc acquisition of Purch's consumer properties.\n\nBusiness.com produces daily content, in which the staff reporters and market experts are featured. In 2014, the company's Daily Business Quote of the Day was featured by Time Inc. as one of the 27 Pinterest Boards that will make your life better. The market experts and staff provide insight for the latest news and discussions around marketing, human resources, technology, entrepreneurship, sales and finance. Market experts are outside contributors providing expertise and insights on trends happening in their perspective businesses. Market experts include Mike Volpe of Hubspot, Sarah benard of iCrossing and Aaron Kahlow of Online Marketing Institute (OMI).\n\nThe site also features content to help make a purchasing decision including comparison charts, white papers and case studies that are non-biased for the business buyer.\n\nBusiness.com serves advertisers looking to reach the growth companies audience characterized as 20-1000 employee size. Advertising customers include some of the largest B2B brands in B2B such as Intel, Salesforce, Marketo, ADP, Sprint as well as smaller brands. Its suite of digital marketing products include display advertising, pay per click, email marketing, content marketing demand generation, and lead generation for sales ready leads.\n\nIn December, 2014, the company launched LENS, a lead expansion and nurturing service, as part of their demand generation product set.\n\nBusiness.com has been named as a Best Place to Work by the \"San Diego Business Journal\" in 2012, 2013, 2014. In October 2014, the website was ranked #1 on Inc.com's '50 Websites Your Startup Needs to Succeed'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995921", "title": "Meadowlark", "text": "Meadowlark\n\nMeadowlarks are New World grassland birds belonging to genera \"Sturnella\" and \"Leistes\".\n\nThis group includes seven species of largely insectivorous grassland birds. In all species the male at least has a black or brown back and extensively red or yellow underparts.\n\nThere is disagreement among authorities as to whether Lilian's meadowlark should be ranked as a full species or a subspecies.\n\nRed-breasted species, predominantly South American\n\nYellow-breasted species, predominantly North American\n\nAs a group, the meadowlarks have had a volatile taxonomic history. When Carl Linnaeus described the eastern meadowlark (the first of the meadowlarks to be scientifically described) in his epic 10th edition of Systema Naturae in 1758, he thought it was related to the Old World larks, and so put it in the genus \"Alauda\" with them. In the same work, he put the red-breasted meadowlark in the bunting genus \"Emberiza\". Less than a decade later, he described the eastern meadowlark again, this time putting it into the starling genus \"Sturnus\", which Juan Ignacio Molina also used when he first described the long-tailed meadowlark in 1782. In 1816, Louis Jean Pierre Vieillot created the genus \"Sturnella\", moving the meadowlarks into his new taxon. Most taxonomists accepted the new genus, and the western meadowlark, Peruvian meadowlark and Lilian's meadowlark were all placed in this taxon when they were later described. When Charles Lucien Bonaparte described the white-browed meadowlark and pampas meadowlark, however, he assigned them to another newly created genus — \"Trupialis\", for what he called \"ground-starlings\"; he moved the red-breasted meadowlark into that now-defunct genus as well.\n\nBy the early 20th century, the meadowlarks were split again. Only the \"yellow-breasted\" meadowlarks (eastern and western meadowlarks, including Lilian's) remained in the genus \"Sturnella\". The red-breasted and white-browed meadowlarks were moved to the genus \"Leistes\", while the pampas meadowlark, Peruvian meadowlark and long-tailed meadowlark made up the genus \"Pezites\", which was established by Cabanis in 1851. By the late 20th century, all meadowlarks were lumped again in the genus \"Sturnella.\" In 2017, all the red-breasted species were moved to the genus \"Leistes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995922", "title": "AHS Centaur", "text": "AHS Centaur\n\nAustralian Hospital Ship (AHS) \"Centaur\" was a hospital ship which was attacked and sunk by a Japanese submarine off the coast of Queensland, Australia, on 14 May 1943. Of the 332 medical personnel and civilian crew aboard, 268 died, including 63 of the 65 army personnel.\n\nThe Scottish-built vessel was launched in 1924 as a combination passenger liner and refrigerated cargo ship and operated a trade route between Western Australia and Singapore via the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia), carrying passengers, cargo, and livestock. At the start of World War II, \"Centaur\" (like all British Merchant Navy vessels) was placed under British Admiralty control, but after being fitted with defensive equipment, was allowed to continue normal operations. In November 1941, the ship rescued German survivors of the engagement between \"Kormoran\" and HMAS \"Sydney\". \"Centaur\" was relocated to Australia's east coast in October 1942, and used to transport materiel to New Guinea.\n\nIn January 1943, \"Centaur\" was handed over to the Australian military for conversion into a hospital ship, as the ship's small size made her suitable for operating in Maritime Southeast Asia. The refit (including installation of medical facilities and repainting with Red Cross markings) was completed in March, and the ship undertook a trial voyage: transporting wounded from Townsville to Brisbane, then from Port Moresby to Brisbane. After replenishing in Sydney, \"Centaur\" embarked the 2/12th Field Ambulance for transport to New Guinea, and sailed on 12 May. Before dawn on 14 May 1943, during her second voyage, \"Centaur\" was torpedoed and sunk by a Japanese submarine off Moreton Island, Queensland. The majority of the 332 aboard died in the attack; the 64 survivors were discovered 36 hours later. The incident resulted in public outrage as attacking a hospital ship is considered a war crime under the 1907 Hague Convention. Protests were made by the Australian and British governments to Japan and efforts were made to discover the people responsible so they could be tried at a war crimes tribunal. In the 1970s the probable identity of the attacking submarine, \"I-177\", became public.\n\nThe reason for the attack is unknown, with theories that \"Centaur\" was in breach of the international conventions that should have protected her, that \"I-177\"s commander was unaware that \"Centaur\" was a hospital ship, or that the submarine commander knowingly attacked a protected vessel. The wreck of \"Centaur\" was found on 20 December 2009; a claimed discovery in 1995 had been proven to be a different shipwreck.\n\nIn early 1923, the Ocean Steamship Company (a subsidiary of Alfred Holt's Blue Funnel Line) decided that a new vessel would be required to replace the ageing \"Charon\" on the Western Australia to Singapore trade route. The vessel had to be capable of simultaneously transporting passengers, cargo, and livestock. She also had to be capable of resting on mud flats out of the water as the tidal variance in ports at the northern end of Western Australia was as great as .\n\nScotts Shipbuilding and Engineering Company in Greenock was chosen to build \"Centaur\". The ship's keel was laid on 16 November 1923, with the ship ready for collection by 29 August 1924. Constructed at a cost of £146,750 sterling, \"Centaur\" was designed to carry 72 passengers and 450 cattle. Cargo was carried in four holds; the two decks within the hull were primarily for livestock, and could also be used as additional cargo space. The hull of the ship was a 'turret deck' design; decks below the waterline were wider than those above water, and a flat, reinforced hull allowed the ship to rest on the bottom. \"Centaur\" was among the first civilian vessels to be equipped with a diesel engine. One of the most visible characteristics was the smokestack, the extreme size was more a concession to tradition than of practical advantage on a diesel-powered vessel. Her engine was 6-cylinder 4-stroke, single cycle single action diesel engine. It had cylinders of 24 inches (64 cm) diameter by 51 inches (135 cm) stroke. The engine was built by Burmeister & Wain, Copenhagen, Denmark. One of her holds was fitted with refrigeration equipment. The refrigerant was brine and the insulation was cork. The refrigerated hold had a capacity of .\nIn December 1939, \"Centaur\" underwent a minor refit in Hong Kong, with a supercharger and a new propeller fitted to the engine. The supercharger broke down in April 1942, and could not be repaired because of equipment shortages and restricted dockyard access caused by World War II.\n\nAt the beginning of 1943, \"Centaur\" was placed at the disposal of the Australian Department of Defence for conversion to a hospital ship. The conversion was performed by United Ship Services in Melbourne, Australia, and was initially estimated to cost AU£20,000.\n\nThe cost increased to almost AU£55,000, for a variety of reasons. It was originally intended for the ship to travel between ports in New Guinea and Townsville, Queensland, Australia. Increasing casualty numbers in the New Guinea campaign meant that the hospitals in Queensland would quickly become unable to deal with the quantity of the casualties and the nature of their injuries, so a longer voyage to Sydney was required. The Army demanded that additional facilities and conversions be added to the original plans such as expanded bathing and washing facilities, hot water made available to all parts of the ship through installation of a calorifier, the rerouting of all steam pipes away from patient areas, and ventilation arrangements suitable for tropical conditions. The unions representing the ship's crew requested improved living and dining conditions, including new sinks in the food preparation areas and the replacement of flooring in the quarters and mess rooms.\nWhen AHS \"Centaur\" was relaunched on 12 March 1943, she was equipped with an operating theatre, dispensary, two wards (located on the former cattle decks), and a dental surgery, along with quarters for seventy five crew and sixty five permanent Army medical staff. To maintain the ship's mean draught of , 900 tons of ironstone were distributed through the cargo holds as ballast. AHS \"Centaur\" was capable of voyages of 18 days before resupply and could carry just over 250 bedridden patients.\n\n\"Centaur\" was allocated the United Kingdom Official Number 147275 and the Code Letters KHHC. Her port of registry was Liverpool. When \"Centaur\" entered service at the end of 1924, the Fremantle–Java– Singapore trade route was being serviced by two other Blue Funnel Line vessels; \"Gorgon\" (which remained in service until 1928) and \"Charon\" (which \"Centaur\" was replacing). \"Centaur\"s route ran from Fremantle up the Western Australian coast calling at Geraldton, Carnarvon, Onslow, Point Samson, Port Hedland, Broome, and Derby then to the Bali Strait, Surabaya, Semarang, Batavia, and Singapore. \"Centaur\" operated as a cross between a tramp steamer and a freight liner; she travelled a set route, but stops at ports along the route varied between journeys. From 1928 until sometime in the 1930s, \"Centaur\" remained alone on her route, but the increase in trade along this route prompted Blue Funnel Line to reassign \"Gorgon\" and assign the new \"Charon\" to work alongside \"Centaur\".\n\nFollowing the change in Code Letters in 1934, \"Centaur\" was allocated the Code Letters GMQP. A highlight of \"Centaur\"'s pre-war career was the rescue of the 385 ton Japanese whale-chaser \"Kyo Maru II\" in November 1938. \"Kyo Maru II\" had developed boiler problems while returning from the Antarctic and was drifting towards the Houtman Abrolhos Archipelago, where she was in danger of being wrecked by the reefs in the area. \"Centaur\" responded to the distress signal and towed \"Kyo Maru II\" to Geraldton.\n\nAs a vessel of the British Merchant Navy, \"Centaur\" was affected by the British Parliament's 1939 outline of how the Merchant Navy would respond to the declaration of war, primarily submission to the Admiralty in all matters excluding the crewing and management of vessels. Following the outbreak of World War II on 3 September 1939, \"Centaur\" was equipped with a stern-mounted Mark IX naval gun and two .303 Vickers machine guns located on the bridge wings for protection against Axis warships and aircraft. She was also fitted with port and starboard paravanes and degaussing equipment for protection against naval mines. The weapons were removed during the hospital ship refit, although the anti-mine countermeasures remained. \"Centaur\" initially remained in service on her original trade route.\n\nOn 26 November 1941, a damaged lifeboat carrying 62 \"Kriegsmarine\" (German navy) sailors and officers was spotted by an aircraft looking for the missing Australian cruiser ; the aircraft directed \"Centaur\" to the lifeboat. Upon encountering the lifeboat, food was lowered to its occupants, and one person was allowed on board to explain the situation. Initially posing as a Norwegian merchant navy officer, the man quickly revealed that he was the first officer of the and that the lifeboat contained German survivors from \"Kormoran\"s battle with HMAS \"Sydney\" seven days earlier, including Captain Theodor Detmers.\nUnwilling to leave the shipwrecked men at sea, but afraid of having his ship captured by the Germans, \"Centaur\"s master decided to take the lifeboat in tow, after allowing nine wounded men aboard. During the tow towards Carnarvon, Western Australia, the lifeboat was swamped and partially sunk by rough seas, so two of \"Centaur\"s lifeboats were lowered to carry the Germans. On arrival in Carnarvon, the Germans were relocated to the number one cargo hold, where they were joined by another hundred \"Kormoran\" survivors collected by other ships, plus forty Australian Army guards, which were then transported by \"Centaur\" to Fremantle.\n\nFollowing the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the beginning of the Malayan Campaign on 7 December 1941, \"Centaur\"s run was curtailed to Broome, Western Australia. On 6 October 1942, \"Centaur\" was ordered to sail to Queensland, where she began runs between the east coast of Australia and New Guinea, carrying materiel.\n\nWith the commencement of hostilities between Japan and the British Empire, it became clear that the three hospital ships currently serving Australia—\"Manunda\", \"Wanganella\", and \"Oranje\"—would not be able to operate in the shallow waters typical of Maritime Southeast Asia, so a new hospital ship was required. Of the Australian Merchant Navy vessels able to operate in this region, none were suitable for conversion to a hospital ship, and a request to the British Ministry of Shipping placed \"Centaur\" at the disposal of the Australian military on 4 January 1943. The conversion work began on 9 January and \"Centaur\" was commissioned as an Australian Hospital Ship on 1 March. During her conversion, \"Centaur\" was painted with the markings of a hospital ship as detailed in Article 5 of the tenth Hague Convention of 1907 (\"Adaptation to Maritime War of the Principles of the Geneva Convention\"); white hull with a green band interspersed by three red crosses on each flank of the hull, white superstructure, multiple large red crosses positioned so that the ship's status would be visible from both sea and air, and an identification number (for \"Centaur\", 47) on her bows. At night, the markings were illuminated by a combination of internal and external lights. Data on the ship's markings and the layout of identifying structural features was provided to the International Committee of the Red Cross during the first week of February 1943, who passed this on to the Japanese on 5 February. This information was also circulated and promoted by the press and media.\n\"Centaur\" entered operation as a hospital ship on 12 March 1943. The early stages of \"Centaur's\" first voyage as a hospital ship were test and transport runs; the initial run from Melbourne to Sydney resulted in the Master, Chief Engineer, and Chief Medical Officer composing a long list of defects requiring attention. Following repairs, she conducted a test run, transporting wounded servicemen from Townsville to Brisbane to ensure that she was capable of fulfilling the role of a medical vessel. \"Centaur\" was then tasked with delivering medical personnel to Port Moresby, New Guinea, and returning to Brisbane with Australian and American wounded along with a small number of wounded Japanese prisoners of war.\n\nArriving in Sydney on 8 May 1943, \"Centaur\" was re-provisioned at Darling Harbour, before departing for Cairns, Queensland on 12 May 1943. From there, her destination was again New Guinea. On board at the time were 74 civilian crew, 53 Australian Army Medical Corps personnel (including 8 officers), 12 female nurses from the Australian Army Nursing Service, 192 soldiers from the 2/12th Field Ambulance, and one Torres Strait ship pilot. Most of the female nurses had transferred from the hospital ship \"Oranje\", and the male Army personnel assigned to the ship aboard were all medical staff. During the loading process, there was an incident when the ambulance drivers attached to the 2/12th attempted to bring their rifles and personal supplies of ammunition aboard. This was met with disapproval from \"Centaur\"s Master and Chief Medical Officer, and raised concerns amongst the crew and wharf labourers that \"Centaur\" would be transporting military supplies or commandos to New Guinea: the rifles were not allowed on board until \"Centaur\"s Master received official reassurance that the ambulance drivers were allowed to carry weapons under the 10th Hague Convention (specifically Article 8), as they were used \"for the maintenance of order and the defence of the wounded.\" The remaining cargo was searched by the crew and labourers for additional weapons and munitions.\n\nAt approximately 4:10 am on 14 May 1943, while on her second run from Sydney to Port Moresby, \"Centaur\" was torpedoed by an unsighted submarine. The torpedo struck the portside oil fuel tank approximately below the waterline, creating a hole across, igniting the fuel, and setting the ship on fire from the bridge aft. Many of those on board were immediately killed by concussion or perished in the inferno. \"Centaur\" quickly took on water through the impact site, rolled to port, then sank bow-first, submerging completely in less than three minutes. The rapid sinking prevented the deployment of lifeboats, although two broke off from \"Centaur\" as she sank, along with several damaged liferafts.\n\nAccording to the position extrapolated by Second Officer Gordon Rippon from the 4:00 am dead reckoning position, \"Centaur\" was attacked approximately east-northeast of Point Lookout, North Stradbroke Island, Queensland. Doubts were initially cast on the accuracy of both the calculated point of sinking and the dead reckoning position, but the 2009 discovery of the wreck found both to be correct, with \"Centaur\" located within of Rippon's coordinates.\n\nOf the 332 people on board, 64 were rescued. Most of the crew and passengers were asleep at the time of attack and had little chance to escape. It was estimated that up to 200 people may have been alive at the time \"Centaur\" submerged. Several who made it off the ship later died from shrapnel wounds or burns; others were unable to find support and drowned.\n\nThe survivors spent 36 hours in the water, using barrels, wreckage, and the two damaged lifeboats for flotation. During this time, they drifted approximately north east of \"Centaur\"s calculated point of sinking and spread out over an area of . The survivors saw at least four ships and several aircraft, but could not attract their attention.\n\nAt the time of rescue, the survivors were in two large and three small groups, with several more floating alone. Amongst those rescued were Sister Ellen Savage, the only surviving nurse from 12 aboard; Leslie Outridge, the only surviving doctor from 18 aboard; Gordon Rippon, second officer and most senior surviving crew member; and Richard Salt, the Torres Strait ship pilot. In 1944, Ellen Savage was presented with the George Medal for providing medical care, boosting morale, and displaying courage during the wait for rescue.\n\nOn the morning of 15 May 1943, the American destroyer departed Brisbane to escort the 11,063 ton New Zealand freighter \"Sussex\" on the first stage of the latter's trans-Tasman voyage. At 2:00 pm, a lookout aboard \"Mugford\" reported an object on the horizon. Around the same time, a Royal Australian Air Force Avro Anson of No. 71 Squadron, flying ahead on anti-submarine watch, dived towards the object. The aircraft returned to the two ships and signalled that there were shipwreck survivors in the water requiring rescue. \"Mugford\"s commanding officer ordered \"Sussex\" to continue alone as \"Mugford\" collected the survivors. Marksmen were positioned around the ship to shoot sharks, and sailors stood ready to dive in and assist the wounded. \"Mugford\"s medics inspected each person as they came aboard and provided necessary medical care. The American crew learned from the first group of survivors that they were from the hospital ship \"Centaur\".\n\nAt 2:14 pm, \"Mugford\" made contact with the Naval Officer-in-Charge in Brisbane, and announced that the ship was recovering survivors from \"Centaur\" at , the first that anyone in Australia had knowledge of the attack on the hospital ship. The rescue of the 64 survivors took an hour and twenty minutes, although \"Mugford\" remained in the area until dark, searching an area of approximately for more survivors. After darkness fell, \"Mugford\" returned to Brisbane, arriving shortly before midnight. Further searches of the waters off North Stradbroke Island were made by during the night of 15 May until 6:00 pm on 16 May, and by and four motor torpedo boats from 16 to 21 May, with neither search finding more survivors.\n\nAt the time of the attack, none aboard \"Centaur\" witnessed what had attacked the ship. Due to the ship's position, the distance from shore, and the depth, it was concluded that she was torpedoed by one of the Japanese submarines known to be operating off the Australian east coast. Several survivors later claimed to have heard the attacking submarine moving on the surface while they were adrift, and the submarine was seen by the ship's cook, Francis Martin, who was floating alone on a hatch cover, out of sight from the main cluster of survivors. Martin described the submarine to Naval Intelligence following the survivors' return to land; his description matched the profile of a KD7 type \"Kaidai\"-class submarine of the Imperial Japanese Navy.\nAt the time of the attack, three KD7 \"Kaidai\" were operating off Australia's east coast: \"I-177\" under the command of Hajime Nakagawa, \"I-178\" under Hidejiro Utsuki, and \"I-180\" under Toshio Kusaka. None of these submarines survived the war; \"I-177\" was sunk by on 3 October 1944, \"I-178\" by on 25 August 1943, and \"I-180\" by on 26 April 1944. Kusaka and Nakagawa were transferred to other submarines before the loss of \"I-180\" and \"I-177\" respectively, but Utsuki and \"I-178\" were sunk while returning from the patrol off the coast of Australia.\n\nIn December 1943, following official protests, the Japanese government issued a statement formally denying responsibility for the sinking of \"Centaur\". Records provided by the Japanese following the war also did not acknowledge responsibility. Although \"Centaur\"s sinking was a war crime, no one was tried for sinking the hospital ship. Investigations into the attack were conducted between 1944 and 1948, and included the interrogation of the commanders of the submarines operating in Australian waters at the time, their superiors, plus junior officers and crewmen from the submarines who had survived the war. Several of the investigators suspected that Nakagawa and \"I-177\" were most likely responsible, but they were unable to establish this beyond reasonable doubt, and the \"Centaur\" case file was closed on 14 December 1948 without any charges laid.\n\nHistorians were divided on which submarine was responsible. In \"Royal Australian Navy, 1942–1945\", published in 1968 as part of the series detailing the Australian official history of World War II, George Hermon Gill concluded that either \"I-178\" or \"I-180\" was responsible; the former was more likely as she had served in Australian waters the longest of any Japanese submarine at the time, but had claimed no kills in the three-month period surrounding \"Centaur\"s sinking. In 1972, German military historian Jürgen Rohwer claimed in \"Chronology of the war at sea\" that \"I-177\" torpedoed \"Centaur\", based on a Japanese report stating that \"I-177\" had attacked a ship on 14 May 1943 in the area the hospital ship had sunk. Japanese Rear Admiral Kaneyoshi Sakamoto, who had shown Rohwer the report, stated that Nakagawa and \"I-177\" were responsible for the attack on \"Centaur\" in his 1979 book \"History of Submarine Warfare\".\n\nAs an official history of the Japanese Navy, Sakamoto's work was considered to be official admission of the attacking submarine's identity. Subsequently, most sources assumed as fact Nakagawa's and \"I-177\"s role in the loss of \"Centaur\". Nakagawa, who died in 1991, refused to speak about the attack on \"Centaur\" following the war crimes investigation at the end of World War II or even to defend himself or deny the claims made by Rohwer and Sakamoto.\n\nThe media were notified of \"Centaur\"s sinking on 17 May 1943, but were ordered not to release the news until it had been announced in the South West Pacific Area's General Headquarters dispatch at midday on 18 May, and in Parliament by Prime Minister John Curtin that afternoon. News of the attack made front pages throughout the world, including \"The Times\" of London, \"The New York Times\", and the \"Montreal Gazette\". In some newspapers, the news took precedence over the 'Dambuster' raids performed in Europe by No. 617 Squadron RAF.\n\nThe initial public reaction to the attack on \"Centaur\" was one of outrage, significantly different from that displayed following the loss of Australian warships or merchant vessels. As a hospital ship, the attack was a breach of the tenth Hague Convention of 1907, and as such was a war crime. The sinking of \"Centaur\" drew strong reactions from both Prime Minister Curtin and General Douglas MacArthur. Curtin stated that the sinking was \"an entirely inexcusable act, undertaken in violation of the convention to which Japan is a party and of all the principles of common humanity\". MacArthur reflected the common Australian view when he stated that the sinking was an example of Japanese \"limitless savagery\". Politicians urged the public to use their rage to fuel the war effort, and \"Centaur\" became a symbol of Australia's determination to defeat what appeared to be a brutal and uncompromising enemy. The Australian Government produced posters depicting the sinking, which called for Australians to \"Avenge the Nurses\" by working to produce materiel, purchasing war bonds, or enlisting in the armed forces.\n\nPeople also expressed their sympathy towards the crew, with several efforts to fund a new hospital ship established. The councillors of Caulfield, Victoria, organised a fund to replace the lost medical equipment, opening with a donation of AU£2,000. Those who worked on \"Centaur\"s conversion contributed money towards a replacement, and employees of Ansett Airways pledged to donate an hour's pay towards the fitting out of such a replacement.\n\nWith some people unable to believe that the Japanese would be so ruthless, rumours began to spread almost immediately after news of the attack was made public. The most common rumour was that \"Centaur\" had been carrying munitions or commandos at the time of her sinking, with the Japanese made aware of this prior to her departure. This stemmed from an incident involving the ambulance drivers' weapons during loading in Sydney.\n\nThe attack was universally condemned by Australian servicemen, who commonly believed that the attack on \"Centaur\" had been carried out deliberately and in full knowledge of her status. Similar reactions were expressed by other Allied personnel; United States Army Air Forces General George Kenney recalled having to talk a sergeant bombardier out of organising a retaliatory bombing run on a Japanese hospital ship known to be in their area.\nSix days after the attack on \"Centaur\", a request was made by the Australian Department of Defence that the identification markings and lights be removed from Australian hospital ship \"Manunda\", weapons be installed, and that she begin to sail blacked out and under escort. The conversion was performed, although efforts by the Department of the Navy, the Admiralty, and authorities in New Zealand and the United States of America caused the completed conversion to be undone. The cost of the roundabout work came to £12,500, and kept \"Manunda\" out of service for three months. On 9 June 1943, communications between the Combined Chiefs of Staff on the subject of hospital ships contained a section referring to the \"Manunda\" incident as a response to the attack on \"Centaur\", with the conclusion that the attack was the work of an irresponsible Japanese commander, and that it would be better to wait until further attacks had been made before considering the removal of hospital ship markings.\n\nWhen the consideration was made that the ambulance drivers' weapons incident just prior to Centaur's voyage may have been partially responsible for the attack, it led to the tightening of rules regarding who was allowed to travel on a hospital ship. Quasi-medical staff, like repatriation teams, were no longer permitted on hospital ships. Ambulance drivers had to transfer from the regular Army to the Australian Army Medical Corps before they were allowed aboard, although they were still permitted to carry their unloaded weapons and ammunition.\n\nAfter consultation with the Australian armed forces, General MacArthur, the Admiralty, and the Australian Government, an official protest was sent. This was received by the Japanese Government on 29 May 1943. At around the same time, the International Committee of the Red Cross sent a protest on behalf of the major Allied Red Cross organisations to the Japanese Red Cross.\n\nOn 26 December 1943, a response to the Australian protest arrived. It stated that the Japanese Government had no information justifying the allegation made, and therefore took no responsibility for what happened. The reply counter-protested that nine Japanese hospital ships had been attacked by the Allies, although these claims were directed against the United States, not Australia. Although several later exchanges were made, the lack of progress saw the British Government inform the Australian Prime Minister on 14 November 1944 that no further communications would be made on the loss of \"Centaur\".\n\nTorpedo attacks in Australian waters were common at this time, with 27 Japanese submarines operating in Australian waters between June 1942 and December 1944. These submarines attacked almost 50 merchant vessels, with 20 ships confirmed to be sunk as result of a Japanese attack, plus 9 more unconfirmed. This was part of a concentrated effort to disrupt supply convoys from Australia to New Guinea.\n\nSeveral actions on \"Centaur\"s part may have contributed to her demise. \"Centaur\" was under orders to sail well out to sea until reaching the Great Barrier Reef; her course keeping her between from shore. \"Centaur\"s Master, believing he had been given a route intended for a merchant vessel, set a course closer to land, but on the seaward side of in depth. Also, \"Centaur\" was sailing completely illuminated, with the exception of the two bow floodlights, which had been switched off as they interfered with visibility from the bridge.\n\nThere are three main theories as to why \"Centaur\" was attacked:\n\nThis theory stems from the various rumours spreading after \"Centaur\"s sinking. If \"Centaur\" had been in breach of the Hague Convention of 1907, and someone had informed the Japanese of this, \"I-177\" may have been under valid orders to attack. When \"Centaur\" left Sydney, her decks were packed with green-uniformed men, and as Field Ambulance uniforms were only distinguishable from other Army uniforms by badge insignia and the colouration of the cloth band ringing the hat, a distant observer could have concluded that the hospital ship was transporting soldiers. Those witnessing the loading in Sydney would have seen the ambulance drivers bring their weapons aboard, and could have come to a similar conclusion. If a spy or informant had passed this information to the Japanese, \"I-177\" could have been lying in wait. The main flaw in this theory is the question of how Nakagawa and his crew were able to predict that \"Centaur\" was taking an alternative route and how they were able to determine the new route selected.\n\nSimilar but later rumours included that during her first voyage, \"Centaur\" had transported soldiers to New Guinea, or Japanese prisoners of war back to Australia for interrogation, and consequently had been marked as a legitimate target by the Japanese. \"Centaur\" had carried 10 prisoners of war on her return voyage from New Guinea, but as they were all wounded personnel, transporting them on a hospital ship was legal.\n\nThis theory states that Nakagawa was unaware that the vessel he was attacking was a hospital ship, and that the sinking was an unfortunate accident. This view was supported by several Japanese officers, both before and after the revelation that Nakagawa was responsible. Amongst them was Lieutenant Commander Zenji Orita, who took command of \"I-177\" after Nakagawa. Orita did not hear anything from the crew about having sunk a hospital ship, not even rumours, and believed that if \"I-177\" had knowingly attacked \"Centaur\", he would have learned this from the crew's gossip.\n\nWhen compared to the other contemporary Australian hospital ships, \"Centaur\" was the smallest, approximately a third of the size of \"Manunda\" or \"Wanganella\". \"Centaur\" was also slightly shorter than \"I-177\". The observation of \"Centaur\" was made through a periscope, and submarine officers attest that at , the optimum range of attack for World War II–era Japanese submarines, some officers would not be able to clearly identify a target ship's profile or hull markings. With \"Centaur\"s bow floodlights out, and with the observation of the target made through the periscope, there is a possibility Nakagawa would not have seen the hospital ship's markings if he had been in the wrong position. Apart from the two bow floodlights, \"Centaur\" was lit up brilliantly. To attack, \"I-177\" would have had to approach from abeam of \"Centaur\", which was illuminated by both its own lights and a full moon.\n\nThis theory states that Nakagawa was fully aware that his target was a hospital ship and decided to sink her regardless, either on his own initiative or on a poor interpretation of his orders. Researchers speculate that as Nakagawa was approaching the end of his tour in Australian waters, and had only sunk a single enemy vessel, the 8,742 ton freighter \"Limerick\", he did not want to return with the disgrace of a single kill. Other claims include that Nakagawa may have been acting in vengeance for casualties inflicted by the Allies during the Battle of the Bismarck Sea, or may have expected praise for the sinking of an enemy naval vessel.\n\nIn February 1944, while in command of \"I-37\", Nakagawa ordered the machine-gunning of survivors from three British merchant vessels torpedoed by his submarine (, on 22 February; , on 24 February; and , on 29 February). His defence, that he was acting under orders from Vice Admiral Shiro Takasu, was not accepted, and he was sentenced to four years imprisonment at Sugamo Prison as a Class B war criminal. These incidents showed that Nakagawa was willing to ignore the laws of war.\n\nFollowing World War II, several searches of the waters around North Stradbroke and Moreton Islands failed to reveal \"Centaur\"s location. It was believed that she had sunk off the edge of the continental shelf, to a depth at which the Royal Australian Navy did not have the capability to search for a vessel of \"Centaur\"s size. Some parties also believed that Rippon's calculated point of sinking was inaccurate, either intentionally or through error.\n\nSeveral points were incorrectly identified as the location where \"Centaur\" sank. The first was in the War Diary Situation Report entry for the hospital ship's sinking, which gives , east of Rippon's position. According to Milligan and Foley, this likely occurred because an estimated distance from Brisbane, included as a frame of reference, was interpreted literally. In 1974, two divers claimed to have found the ship approximately east of Brisbane, in of water, but did not disclose its exact location. Attempts to relocate the site between 1974 and 1992 were unsuccessful, with an associate of the divers claiming that the Navy destroyed the wreck shortly after its discovery.\n\nIn 1995, it was announced that the shipwreck of \"Centaur\" had been located in waters from the lighthouse on Moreton Island, a significant distance from her believed last position. The finding was reported on \"A Current Affair\", during which footage of the shipwreck, underwater, was shown. Discoverer Donald Dennis claimed the identity of the shipwreck had been confirmed by the Navy, the Queensland Maritime Museum, and the Australian War Memorial. A cursory search by the Navy confirmed the presence of a shipwreck at the given location, which was gazetted as a war grave and added to navigation charts by the Australian Hydrographic Office.\n\nOver the next eight years, there was growing doubt about the position of Dennis' wreck, due to the distance from both Second Officer Rippon's calculation of the point of sinking and where USS \"Mugford\" found the survivors. During this time, Dennis had been convicted on two counts of deception and one of theft through scams. Two wreck divers, Trevor Jackson and Simon Mitchell, used the location for a four-hour world record dive on 14 May 2002, during which they examined the wreck and took measurements, claiming that the ship was too small to be \"Centaur\". Jackson had been studying \"Centaur\" for some time, and believed that the wreck was actually another, much smaller ship, the MV \"Kyogle\", a lime freighter purchased by the Royal Australian Air Force and sunk during bombing practice on 12 May 1951. The facts gathered on the dive were inconclusive, but the divers remained adamant it was not \"Centaur\", and passed this information onto Nick Greenaway, producer of the newsmagazine show \"60 Minutes\".\n\nOn the 60th anniversary of the sinking, \"60 Minutes\" ran a story demonstrating that the wreck was not \"Centaur\". It was revealed that nobody at the Queensland Maritime Museum had yet seen Dennis' footage, and when it was shown to Museum president Rod McLeod and maritime historian John Foley, they stated that the shipwreck could not be \"Centaur\" due to physical inconsistencies, such as an incorrect rudder. Following this story, and others published around the same time in newspapers, the Navy sent three ships to inspect the site over a two-month period; HMA Ships , , and , before concluding that the shipwreck was incorrectly identified as \"Centaur\". An amendment was made to the gazettal, and the Hydrographic Office began to remove the mark from charts.\n\nIn April 2008, following the successful discovery of HMAS \"Sydney\", several parties began calling for a dedicated search for \"Centaur\". By the end of 2008, the Australian Federal and Queensland State governments had formed a joint committee and contributed A$2 million each towards a search, and tenders to supply equipment (including the search vessel, side-scan sonar systems, and a remotely operated inspection submersible) were opened in February 2009, and awarded during the year. The search, conducted from the Defence Maritime Services vessel \"Seahorse Spirit\" and overseen by shipwreck hunter David Mearns, commenced during the weekend of 12–13 December 2009. The initial search area off Cape Moreton covered , with the search team given 35 days to locate and film the wreck before funding was exhausted.\nSix sonar targets with similar dimensions to \"Centaur\" were located between 15 and 18 December: as none of the contacts corresponded completely to the hospital ship, the search team opted to take advantage of favourable weather conditions and continue investigating the area before returning to each site and making a detailed inspection with a higher-resolution sonar. On the afternoon of 18 December, the sonar towfish separated from the cable, and was lost in of water, forcing the use of the high-resolution sonar to complete the area search. After inspecting the potential targets, Mearns and the search team announced on 20 December that they had found \"Centaur\" that morning.\n\nThe wreck was found at ( east of Moreton Island, and less than from Rippon's coordinates), resting below sea level in a steep-walled gully, wide and deep. After returning to shore for Christmas and to install a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) aboard \"Seahorse Spirit\", the search team commenced efforts to document the wreck, with the first photographs taken by the ROV in the early morning of 10 January 2010 confirming that the wreck is \"Centaur\". Conditions for documenting the hospital ship were not optimal on the first ROV dive, and three more dives were made during 11 and 12 January. During the four dives, over 24 hours of footage were collected, along with numerous photographs: features identified during the operation include the Red Cross identification number, the hospital ship markings, and the ship's bell. The \"Centaur\" wreck site has been marked as a war grave and protected with a navigational exclusion zone under the \"Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976\".\n\nIn 1948, Queensland nurses established the \"Centaur Memorial Fund for Nurses\" which used the money raised to purchase an establishment and name it \"Centaur House\"; a facility supporting nurses by holding convivial meetings and providing inexpensive accommodation for out-of-town nurses. The original Centaur House was sold in 1971, with a new building purchased and renamed. The second Centaur House was sold in 1979 and although the fund still exists, it no longer owns a physical facility. On 15 September 1968, a cairn was unveiled at Caloundra, Queensland, erected by the local Rotary International Club. In 1990, a stained glass memorial window depicting \"Centaur\", along with a plaque listing the names of those lost in the attack, was installed at Concord Repatriation General Hospital, at a cost of A$16,000. A display about \"Centaur\" was placed at the Australian War Memorial. The centrepiece of the display was a scale model of \"Centaur\" presented to the Memorial by Blue Funnel Line, and the display included items that were donated by the survivors, such as a lifejacket, a signal flare, and a medical kit. It was removed in 1992 to make way for a display related to the Vietnam War.\nA memorial to \"Centaur\" was unveiled at Point Danger, Coolangatta, Queensland on 14 May 1993, the 50th anniversary of the sinking. It consists of a monumental stone topped with a cairn, surrounded by a tiled moat with memorial plaques explaining the commemoration. The memorial is surrounded by a park with a boardwalk, overlooking the sea, with plaques for other Merchant Navy and Royal Australian Navy vessels lost during World War II. The unveiling of the memorial was performed by Minister for Veterans' Affairs, Senator John Faulkner.\n\nA memorial plaque was laid on the foredeck of \"Centaur\" on 12 January 2010, during the fourth and final ROV dive on the hospital ship. This would normally be a breach of the \"Historic Shipwrecks Act\", but a special dispensation permitted the manoeuvre, as placing the plaque on the seabed next to the ship would have seen it sink into the sediment. Following the ship's discovery, a national memorial service at St John's Cathedral, Brisbane on 2 March 2010 was attended by over 600 people, including Prime Minister Kevin Rudd. A second ceremony for 300 relatives of the hospital ship's personnel was held aboard on 24 September. During the service, which occurred over the wreck site, wreaths were laid and the ashes of three survivors were scattered.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995923", "title": "Sturnella", "text": "Sturnella\n\nThe genus Sturnella are North American grassland birds called meadowlarks. The genus was previously lumped with the South American meadowlarks now placed in the genus \"Leistes\".\n\nIt includes two or three species of largely insectivorous grassland birds. In all species the male at least has a black or brown back and extensively yellow underparts.\n\nThere are two widely accepted members of the genus. There is disagreement among authorities as to whether Lilian's meadowlark should be ranked as a full species or a subspecies.\n\n\nBy the early 20th century, the meadowlarks were split. Only the \"yellow-breasted\" meadowlarks (eastern and western meadowlarks, including Lilian's) remained in the genus \"Sturnella\". The red-breasted and white-browed meadowlarks were moved to the genus \"Leistes\", while the pampas meadowlark, Peruvian meadowlark and long-tailed meadowlark made up the genus \"Pezites\", which was established by Cabanis in 1851. By the late 20th century, all meadowlarks were lumped in the genus Sturnella. In 2017, all the red-breasted meadowlarks were merged into the genus \"Leistes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995931", "title": "Niter kibbeh", "text": "Niter kibbeh\n\nNiter kibbeh, or niter qibe ( '), also called \"' (in Tigrinya), is a seasoned, clarified butter used in Eritrean and Ethiopian cuisine. Its preparation is similar to that of ghee, but \"niter kibbeh\" is simmered with spices such as \"besobela\" (known as Ethiopian sacred basil), koseret, fenugreek, cumin, coriander, turmeric, Ethiopian cardamom (korarima), cinnamon, or nutmeg before straining, imparting a distinct, spicy aroma. The version using vegetable oil instead of butter is called \"yeqimem zeyet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995932", "title": "The Culture of Building", "text": "The Culture of Building\n\nThe Culture of Building (Oxford University Press) is a 2006 book by Howard Davis, a professor of architecture at the University of Oregon. It describes how buildings throughout the ages and varied settings are products of a building culture – the \"coordinated system of knowledge, rules, procedures, and habit that surrounds the building process in a given place and time\". Davis suggests that this culture is a cross-global phenomenon in which thousands of buildings are produced through shared and predictable methods of working.\n"}
{"id": "1995935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995935", "title": "Paul Gerson Unna", "text": "Paul Gerson Unna\n\nPaul Gerson Unna, (September 8, 1850, Hamburg – January 29, 1929, Hamburg) was a German physician specialized in dermatology and one of the pioneers in dermatopathology.\nPaul Unna was the son of Moritz Adolph Unna, a physician from Hamburg. Unna was educated at the Gelehrtenschule des Johanneums. He began to study medicine at the University of Heidelberg, but had to interrupt it in order to fight in the Franco-Prussian war, where he was severely wounded. In 1871, he resumed his studies in Heidelberg and later went to the University of Leipzig, finally attaining a doctorate under Prof. Heinrich Wilhelm Waldeyer in Strasbourg. His doctoral work was on the subject of the histology and development of the epidermis, and was published in 1876. The thesis contained a set of new ideas and aspects that were met with hard criticism. They were accepted only after some corrections were made.\n\nHe went on to receive his training in dermatology in Vienna, where he worked in cooperation with Ferdinand von Hebra, Moritz Kaposi and Heinrich Auspitz, among others.\n\nAfter his return to Hamburg, Unna started working in the clinical practice of his father, then in the Sankt Georg Hospital. Unna's main interest resided on dermatology: he opened his own practice for skin diseases in Hamburg in 1881, and later opened the \"Dermatologikum\" private dermatological hospital in Hamburg Eimsbüttel, so that he could concentrate entirely on the field, beginning in 1884. In that year, Unna published his first book, \"Histopathologie der Hautkrankheiten\" (Histopathology of Skin Diseases), which exposed the entire knowledge in the field at that time and which made him one of the most prominent dermatologists of his time. Besides describing all known skin diseases, Unna proposed new therapies. Among the innovations, in 1886 he proposed the use of ichthyol and resorcinol against skin diseases.\n\nHe investigated the biochemical processes of the skin and was the first to describe the stratum granulosum. In 1894 he introduced layer projection as a method for skin investigations.\n\nIn 1907 he received the title of professor from the Hamburg senate, and in the following year he became the chief physician of the Eppendorf hospital. In 1919 he became a professor at the University of Hamburg, receiving the first chair for dermatology.\n\nIn 1927 he described for the first time what was to be called Unna's disease, a chronic disease of the skin with seborrhea of the scalp and of the areas in the face and trunk that are rich in sebaceous follicles. Along with Arthur Thost, the Unna-Thost syndrome is named, a rare hereditary skin disease affecting the soles and palms. Also, a compression gauze used to treat venous leg problems is named Unna's boot.\nFor many years Unna cooperated closely with the pharmacist Paul Beiersdorf. The street in Hamburg where the Beiersdorf company is located is named Unnastrasse in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995943", "title": "Russ Johnson", "text": "Russ Johnson\n\nWilliam Russell Johnson (born February 22, 1973) is a former Major League Baseball infielder. He went to Louisiana State University and was drafted in the first round of the 1994 Major League Baseball Draft by the Houston Astros. In , he was called up to the majors by the Astros, where he remained until . His best season in Houston was , when he hit .282 with four home runs and 33 RBI.\n\nIn the middle of the 2000 season, Johnson was traded to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays for reliever Marc Valdes. He moved around several times during the next few years. With minor leaguer Josh Pressley, he was supplied by the Devil Rays in to the New York Mets as a PTBNL in a deal for Rey Ordóñez. He spent and in the minor leagues with the Mets' and Cubs' Triple-A teams respectively.\n\nHe reached the majors again in , when he signed as a free agent with the New York Yankees. He spent the year coming in off the bench as a first baseman, third baseman, pinch hitter, designated hitter, or outfielder. This made him the second \"William Russell Johnson\" to play for the Yankees. (Billy Johnson, who has the same first, middle, and last name, but is no relation, played for New York in the 1940s.)\n\nIn , he played for the Yankees Triple-A team, and led the International League in walk percentage (14.8%). He spent in the Pittsburgh Pirates organization, where he hit a combined .261 in 106 games split between Double-A and Triple-A.\n"}
{"id": "1995945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995945", "title": "Devil's Lake State Park (Wisconsin)", "text": "Devil's Lake State Park (Wisconsin)\n\nDevil's Lake State Park is a state park located in the Baraboo Range in eastern Sauk County, just south of Baraboo, Wisconsin. Devil's Lake State Park is the largest state park in Wisconsin. It is around thirty-five miles northwest of Madison, and is on the western edge of the last ice-sheet deposited during the Wisconsin drift. This state park is known for its quartzite bluffs along the Devil's Lake, which was created by a glacier depositing terminal moraines that plugged the north and south ends of the gap in the bluffs during the last ice age approximately 12,000 years ago. The sand at the bottom of Devil's Lake is thought to be deposited by glaciers.\n\nThere are many quartzite rock formations, such as Balanced Rock and Devil's Doorway throughout the park. Effigy mounds are also located throughout the park. The park contains approximately eleven miles of the Ice Age Trail.\n\nIts scenic beauty, along with its proximity to the Wisconsin Dells, has made it one of the most popular of Wisconsin's state parks for both day use and overnight camping; the park receives over three million visitors annually. During the fall, the park's brilliant foliage makes it a popular attraction.\n\nParfrey's Glen, Wisconsin's first state natural area, is managed by the Devil's Lake State Park and located just east of the park.\n\nThe area where the park now stands was first settled by pioneers in the mid-1800s. By the start of the 20th century, the area had become a popular vacation destination for wealthy families from Chicago and Madison. The first hotel was established in 1866, 50 years before the park was founded.\n\nThe park was founded in 1911. It was home to five resorts, two of which were perched on the west bluff. No trace of any of these hotels remains. There were also many private residences in the west and south shores of the lake, only four of which remain. At various times the lakeshore hosted water slides, lodges, and golf courses. The clubhouse of one course sat on the current location of the park's nature center. By the 1940s, the hotels were all closed, and the park was retreating to its former natural self.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1941, approximately two hundred members of the Civilian Conservation Corps resided in a work camp. These young men built many of the trails, buildings, and benches still in use today.\n\nIn 1974, the National Park Service declared the Southern portion of the Baraboo Hills a \"National Natural Landmark\". The Nature Conservancy also designated it as one of the \"Last Great Places\"; it is one of only 77 of these places in the world.\n\nLoess covers most of the hills and forms the parent material of a brown silt loam soil. The lake is surrounded by a mixed conifer-deciduous forest and the Baraboo Hills are also home to one of the largest contiguous hardwood forests in the Midwest.\n\nNorth Glacial Moraine is well covered by the north shore developments. The parking lots, concession building and the picnic shelter all sit atop the moraine. This moraine forms the northern border of Devil's Lake. The moraine is approximately thick.\n\nSoutheast Glacial Moraine – is located between the East Bluff-South Face and the South Bluff. The Group Camp is located atop the moraine. It is best seen from the Roznos Meadow parking area along State Route 113. The moraine is approximately thick.\n\nDue to the long geological history of Devil's Lake and the Baraboo Range, the area has been used in geological research for years. The lake itself is rectangular in shape and is a little over a mile long from north to south and a half mile from east to west. It has many cliffs, unique rock formations and a variety of animal and plant species. One of the most notable features of the park is the presence of large talus slopes on three sides of the lake.\n\nThe visitor center houses a three-dimensional model of the park from a top-down view. Both the north and south shores have food courts and modern restroom facilities.\n\nThe exhibits at the park's nature center focus on the geology and natural history of the area. Public nature programs are offered in the summer, as well as evening programs on Saturday nights in the Northern Lights Amphitheater. The nature center also has many historical photographs that come from as far back as the 1800s. They also have many displays of examples of the flora and fauna that can be found throughout the park.\n\nThe park has several American Indian mounds. Across the parking lot from the nature center are effigy mounds built in stylized animal shapes, such as a lynx and a sparrow. In front of the concession building is a linear mound, one of several geometric mounds in the park. These mounds were used as ancient burial sites by early North Americans. The nature center offers courses on the history of the effigy mounds.\n\nThe park has trails ranging from handicapped-accessible paved trails to difficult hiking or bouldering trails. There are also designated rock climbing areas for all levels of experienced climbers. There are also bike trails available. Devil's Lake State Park contains eight miles of off-road bike trails and a two-mile paved path that is available for people with disabilities. There are three popular campgrounds at the park containing 407 campsites all together, one of which contains a sledding hill.\n\n\nThere are of hiking trails in the park. The highest point is above Devil's Lake.\n\nThe geology of the Baraboo Hills surrounding Devil's Lake makes it one of the premier rock climbing areas in the Midwest, with climbs of varying difficulty. The Baraboo Hills are primarily granite and quartzite, which is solid enough to climb. Most outcroppings in the region, especially in the Driftless Area, are composed of sandstone or limestone, which are too brittle to climb safely.\n\nDevil's Lake has enjoyed a history of rock climbing since early ascents in the 20th century. Climbers such as the Stettner Brothers, and members of the hard-climbing group \"DLFA\" have frequented the park extensively. Guidebooks cover more than a lifetime's worth of unique \"routes\" and sub-areas of the park. For climbers, unique names for each major bluff formation is important in finding specific climbs and areas. The climbing style and protection system at Devil's Lake is known for its difficult, glassy rock and traditional fall-protection methods and anchors.\n\nOccasionally, there will be deaths, injuries, and emergency rescues among the rock climbers at Devil's Lake.\n\nThe \"East Bluff\" refers to the Eastern outcroppings in the park, and includes many sub-areas for climbers, including \"Doorway Mass\" which are climbs surrounding the famous Devil's Doorway formation, \"Balanced Rock Wall\" near the famous Balanced rock, and an area off of the CCC trail known as the \"East Ramparts\" which is the most popular due to the high concentration of sheer, unbroken cliff faces to climb.\n\nThe west side of the park features climbing areas such as \"Stettner Rocks\", The Cleo Amphitheatre, and the \"Lost Face\". The Cleo Amphitheatre features the classic climb of a 25 ft freestanding spire known as \"Cleopatra's Needle\"\nCommon mammal life includes deer, raccoon, red fox, coyote, squirrels, and beavers. Black bears, cougars, groundhogs, and wolves have all been spotted at Devil's Lake. There are 115 species of birds. The timber rattlesnake is also present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995950", "title": "Montegrappa", "text": "Montegrappa\n\nMontegrappa is an Italian manufacturing company of luxury goods, based in Bassano del Grappa, a city in Veneto. Its full name is Elmo & Montegrappa S.p.A., and is renowned for its fine art-crafted fountain pens.\n\nMontegrappa was founded under the slogan \"Manifattura pennini d'oro e penne stilografiche\" (\"Maker of gold nibs and fountain pens\") in 1912. Its products are still manufactured in the original factory on the river Brenta, in Bassano del Grappa—near Vicenza, in the North-East of Italy.\n\nDuring the First World War Bassano was a centre of military operations. Among the many soldiers who used the company's pens (\"Elmo\" at that time) for their correspondence were two celebrated 20th-century writers, Ernest Hemingway and John Dos Passos, who had both volunteered for service as ambulance drivers.\n\nThe company was at its high point in the 1930s. It was a period when the fountain pen became widespread and the products of the House of Bassano met the taste of the public with their sober design, the variety of their colours and materials (among the first to use celluloid and galalith), the operation of their technical solutions, and the originality and precision of their manufacturing techniques.\n\nOther Montegrappa products were watches, cufflinks, pockets of leather, fragrances and accessories. The Montegrappa company is owned by Aquila's family: Sylvester Stallone and the ex-F1 Ferrari driver Jean Alesi are also partners and members of the board for P.R. and communication.\n\nMontegrappa makes Regular Edition; Limited Edition; and Special Edition Pens. Pens come in three forms; rollerball; ballpoint or fountain. IN addition to these forms, Montegrappa makes pens out of various precious materials; silver and gold are the most common used material.\n\nLimited Edition Pens include: Alchemist; Aphrodite; Brain; Eternal Bird; 1995 Dragon; 2015 Dragon; Pele; Luxor; Classical Greece; Frank Sinatra; Amerigo Vespucci; Science and Nature; Tertio Millennio; Israel 50th; Romeo and Juliet; Lancaster and York; Vatican 2000; Il Millennio de Bassano; Batman; Tribute to Aryton Senna; Mayan Calendar; My Guardian Angel; Harrods; Salvador Dali; Bruce Lee; Pirates; Chaos; Gran Teatro Le Fenice; Barbiere Di Siviglia; Excellentia Lech Walesa; White Nights; 88th Anniversary; Kazan; Mysticum Count Cagliostra; Human Civilization; Cosmos Enigma; Invita a la Traviata; Citta D'arte Venezia; America's Cup; Quincy Jones; Alexander Hamilton; Special Reserve; Memory; 2000 Millennium; Muhammad Ali and Joe Fraser; La Serena; Sophia; United Arab Emirates; Paulo Coelho; Kahlil Gibran; Queen of Hearts; Animalia for Peace Parks; Animalia; Euro 2002; \n\nMontegrappa also made a series of Ferrari Pens; a series of Elvis Pens; a DC Comics series; and a golf edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995953", "title": "Thornycroft Antar", "text": "Thornycroft Antar\n\nThe Mighty Antar was a heavy-duty 6×4 tractor unit built by Thornycroft from the late 1940s onwards. For some decades it was the standard tank transporter of the British Army and was also used by other nations. It was powered by a shortened V8 land version of the V12 Merlin Aircraft engine modified to run on diesel and known as the Rolls-Royce Meteorite.\n\nThe civilian version of the Antar was developed in the late 1940s as an oilfield vehicle for transporting pipes over rough ground. They were of 6×4 layout (i.e. six wheels, four of them driven), with the front (steering) axle undriven and with twin wheels on both driven (rear) axles (technically ten wheels, eight of them driven, as each rear axle has four wheels). The vehicle was designed for cross-country use, like the earlier Scammell Pioneer and unlike the road-going Diamond T it was eventually to replace.\n\nThe engine, the Rolls-Royce Meteorite, was a cut-down V8 version of the V12 Rolls-Royce Meteor used in tanks, itself a terrestrial version of the Rolls-Royce Merlin and made under licence by the Rover Company. Early Antars used the petrol version made by Rover and by the early 1950s the Rolls-Royce-manufactured diesel versions of the engine.\n\nAntar was a reference to Antar Ibn Shadded, a pre-Islamic Arab poet-warrior. The intended lead customer for the Mighty Antar was the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, previously the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, a ploy to flatter the customer.\n\nIn 1951, the first Antars entered British Army service. These were fixed-body steel-built ballast tractors and were given the design number FV 12001 and the designation \"Tractor 30-ton GS 6x4\". They could haul the new 50-ton Dyson FV 3601 trailers that were being used to carry the new and heavier Centurion tanks. A 20-ton winch was fitted behind the cab, although just provided for loading the trailer rather than for recovery.\n\nAt this time, the intention was that the even heavier Conqueror tank would be transported by a whole new transporter of equally large capacity, the Leyland FV 1000. This was wider than the Antar, as the Antar had in turn been wider than the Diamond T. They were to be equipped with a semi-trailer of 60 tons capacity, given the design number FV 3301. This design was ungainly and top-heavy when loaded, being high at the rear to clear the wheels and sloping downwards towards the front to better place the weight of the load.\n\nPartly inspired by this semi-trailer, a new FV 12002 version of the Antar was developed as a tractor unit to haul it. This was a graceful swan-neck design and had only a small hump over the rear wheels, making loading by the rear ramps simpler. The trackways on which the tank sat were carried outboard of the trailer frame itself, which rose up between them at the front to form the swan neck, sloping only gently to clear the tank's hull. This gave a stronger and yet more compact layout than the ungainly step of the FV 1000 project's. The first version of this was the 16-wheeled FV 3001 of 60 tons capacity. This was later refined as the FV 3005 with smaller wheels, then the 50-ton-capacity FV 3011 (when using the Taskers/Sankey trailer) for carrying the Centurion.\n\nAs the semi-trailer Antars entered service through 1953 to 1955, and after the abandonment of the FV 1000 project, they replaced the American Diamond T that had served during the Second World War as the British Army's main tank transporter.\n\nThe Antar tractor itself was heavier, at 20 tons, than any available recovery vehicle could lift for a suspended tow. There had been plans in the super-heavy FV 1000 and FV 1200 series for recovery vehicles, but these were cancelled with the rest of the project. As an \"ad hoc\" measure in 1952, an RASC officer devised a bolt-on recovery jib that could be fitted to one Antar to make it capable of the suspended towing of another, although this modification was never approved for mass production.\n\nIn the early 1960s the Mark 3 entered service, to support the increasing weight of later Centurion models and also future plans for the Chieftain tank. These were the last Antars in service, remaining until the mid-1980s. The Mark 3 is visually distinct from the earlier models, the use of an 8-cylinder inline engine, the Rolls-Royce C8SFL; without the wide vee of the Meteorite the bonnet was much narrower.\n\nThe Mark 3 used either a 50- or 60-ton semi-trailer (numbered as FV 12004) or could be converted to the FV 12006 ballast tractor configuration for hauling the 50-ton Dyson full trailer.\n\nBy the late 1960s, it was clear that the Antar, even when re-engined, was an old design and replacement would be needed. There was also concern over the spares situation, as they were out of production and Thornycroft had been absorbed, via AEC, into the vast mass of Leyland. The Antar was replaced by the Scammell Commander in 1986.\n\n1B denotes ballast body for Dyson trailer.\n\n2A denotes articulated for Dyson 50-ton semi-trailer or Sankey 60-ton semi-trailer.\n\nBasically the same as the Mk 1 but for relocation of the twin 100 gallon fuel tanks stacked the rear of the cab. These were moved to the saddle in the centre of the vehicle. A Dowty 20-ton winch was then located at the rear of the cab and a PTO-driven hydraulic pump added to serve the Sankey semi-trailer loading ramps and wheel changing jacks.\n\nOne Mark 2 was converted with an AEC diesel engine for army trials in 1963 and sold off in 1971.\n\nA&B\n\nTotally new, narrower, body and cab. The inline engine permitted a much narrower bonnet than the Meteorite's wide vee. The gearbox was similar but the main stick (gear lever) gave six speeds (5 plus overdrive) with a single stick for all winch and PTO control functions.\n\nA third differential (inter-axle) was fitted to the second axle, with a cab-operated control.\n\nMax speed .\n\nWith the Chieftain MBT the all-up weight was 101 tons; they were road-tested at 126 tons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995959", "title": "Blair-Caldwell African American Research Library", "text": "Blair-Caldwell African American Research Library\n\nThe Blair-Caldwell African American Research Library is a branch of the Denver Public Library in Denver, Colorado, in the United States that serves the Five Points neighborhood. It is also a research library with collections focusing on the history of African Americans in Denver and the American West. The library was conceived by Denver's first African American mayor, Wellington Webb, and his wife Wilma Webb, who observed that the history of African-Americans in Denver and the American West was under-represented. The library was envisioned in 1999 and designated the Blair-Caldwell African American Research Library in honor of Omar Blair, the first black president of the Denver school board, and Elvin Caldwell, the first black city council member. Ground breaking occurred in early 2002.\n\nThe 40,000 square foot library contains three floors: The first level is a full-service branch library of the Denver Public Library with an entry gallery and exhibition areas; conference, meeting, and study rooms; and a collection of more than 35,000 books, magazines, and audiovisual materials in English and Spanish. The second level houses collection archives and a research library including video and audio histories and listening and viewing areas; papers and doctoral theses on microfilm; a research area and study space; archival storage space; and a gallery for programs by musicians, artists, and scholars. The third level is a museum that houses exhibits about the history of African Americans in Denver and in the Western United States. The exhibits include the desk that Wellington Webb used during his term as Denver's mayor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995965", "title": "Lisbon Oceanarium", "text": "Lisbon Oceanarium\n\nThe Lisbon Oceanarium (, ) is an oceanarium in Lisbon, Portugal. It is located in the \"Parque das Nações\", which was the exhibition grounds for the Expo '98. It is the largest indoor aquarium in Europe.\n\nThe Lisbon Oceanarium’s conceptual design, architecture, and exhibit design was led by Peter Chermayeff of Peter Chermayeff LLC while at Cambridge Seven Associates. It is said to resemble an aircraft carrier, and is built on a pier in an artificial lagoon. Chermayeff is also the designer of the Osaka Oceanarium, one of the world's largest aquariums, and many other aquariums around the world.\n\nThe Lisbon Oceanarium has a large collection of marine species — penguins, seagulls and other birds; sea otters (mammals); sharks, rays, chimaeras, seahorses and other bony fish; crustaceans; starfish, sea urchins and other echinoderms; sea anemones, corals and other cnidaria; octopuses, cuttlefish, sea snails and other mollusks; amphibians; jellyfish; marine plants and terrestrial plants and other marine organisms totaling about 16,000 individuals of 450 species.\n\nThe main exhibit is a , tank with four large acrylic windows on its sides, and smaller focus windows strategically located around it to make sure it is a constant component throughout the exhibit space. It is deep, which allows pelagic swimmers to swim above the bottom dwellers, and provides the illusion of the open ocean. About 100 species from around the world are kept in this tank, including sharks, rays, barracudas, groupers, and moray eels. One of the main attractions is a large sunfish.\nFour tanks around the large central tank house four different habitats with their native flora and fauna: the North Atlantic rocky coast, the Antarctic coastal line, the Temperate Pacific kelp forests, and the Tropical Indian coral reefs. These tanks are separated from the central tank only by large sheets of acrylic to provide the illusion of a single large tank. Throughout the first floor there are an additional 25 thematic aquariums with each of the habitats' own characteristics.\n\nThe Lisbon Oceanarium is one of the few aquariums in the world to house a sunfish, because of their unique and demanding requirements for care. Other interesting species include two large spider crabs and two sea otters named Eusébio after the soccer player and Amália, named after the fado singer Amália Rodrigues. Unfortunately, both these others died and now the new two others are called Micas and Maré. \n\n"}
{"id": "1995966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995966", "title": "The Singing Fool", "text": "The Singing Fool\n\nThe Singing Fool is a 1928 American musical drama Part-Talkie motion picture directed by Lloyd Bacon which was released by Warner Bros. The film stars Al Jolson in blackface and is a follow-up to his previous film, \"The Jazz Singer\". It is credited with helping to cement the popularity of American films of both sound and the musical genre.\n\nAfter years of hopeful struggle, Al Stone (Jolson) is on his way to stardom. He plays a blackface minstrel, but this character is very different from his negro servant who helps him in the dressing room.\n\n\"I'm Sittin' on Top of the World\", he sings to an appreciative speakeasy crowd. But, as Al discovers, getting there is one thing. Staying there is another. Singing waiter Stone gets his huge break on a magical night when his song wows a big-time producer \"and\" a gold-digging showgirl he fancies. Broadway success and marriage follow, but sure enough, hard times are on the way. Al's fickle wife abandons him, taking the beloved son he calls Sonny Boy with her. Heartbroken, Al becomes a devastated loner until friends from the speakeasy that launched his career rescue him from a life on the streets. Soon, Al is back in lights. But another crisis awaits: Sonny Boy is in the hospital and dying.\n\n\nLike \"The Jazz Singer\", \"The Singing Fool\" was a melodrama with musical interludes, and as such was one of the film industry's first musical films. Produced during the transition period between silent film and talkies, the movie was released in both sound and silent versions.\n\n\"The Singing Fool\" was a part-talking feature, which featured a synchronized musical score with sound effects along with synchronized musical and talking sequences, although in this film roughly 66 minutes of talking and singing were included. Al Jolson's first all-talking feature, \"Say It With Songs\", would appear in 1929.\n\n\"The Singing Fool\" solidified Jolson's position atop the movie world; not until \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" would any sound-era film be more financially successful than this audience-pleasing blend of sentiment and show biz. With a worldwide gross of $5.9 million, it would remain the most successful film in Warner Bros. history until the release of \"Sergeant York\" in 1941.\n\nAccording to Warner Bros records the film earned $3,821,000 domestically and $2,095,000 foreign.\n\nFor the majority of movie audiences, \"The Singing Fool\" became their first experience with a talking film, since few movie theaters had been equipped with a sound system in 1927. The film's positive reception was also viewed as a signifier that sound films were here to stay. \"Here is complete vindication for the advocates of sound pictures\", wrote \"Film Daily\". \"\"The Singing Fool\" is the finest example of sound pictures made to date.\" Mordaunt Hall of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the dialogue was \"a little halting\" and that Dunn was \"not convincing\", but recognized that the main point of interest in the film was \"not in its transparent narrative, but in Mr. Jolson's inimitable singing\", and on that basis it was \"capital entertainment.\" John Mosher of \"The New Yorker\" also recommended the film, writing, \"Fortunately, throughout this picture one has Al Jolson's own songs to listen to, for the story has been contrived to exploit to the full his special talents. Whenever the action begins to slump and lag, Al has only to step forward and do his stuff, and the day is saved.\" One trade paper commentator stated that \"The Singing Fool\" \"will be to talking pictures what \"The Birth of a Nation\" has been to silent pictures\".\n\nFor a time, the film also made Davey Lee, Jolson's 3 year old co-star, the most popular child star since Jackie Coogan. Lee was re-teamed with Jolson in \"Say It With Songs\" and starred in a few other films—including 1929's \"Sonny Boy\"—until his parents pulled him out of the movie business.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\nAl Jolson's rendition of \"The Spaniard That Blighted My Life\" is missing from extant prints of the film. This is due to a lawsuit initiated by the song's author, Billy Merson. Merson claimed that he, as a performer, owed his income to his own renditions of the song, and that Jolson's version would diminish his ability to earn a living. The song was removed from all prints of \"The Singing Fool\" shown in the United Kingdom. Unfortunately, the only surviving copies of the film are also from the U.K., hence are missing the song. These copies also have the majority of the original decorative Warner Brothers title cards replaced with simple British made ones which were used to remove Americanisms which the British would not understand or appreciate (a common practice during the silent era). Only the soundtrack survives on extant Vitaphone discs.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "1995974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995974", "title": "William Williams (Connecticut politician)", "text": "William Williams (Connecticut politician)\n\nWilliam Williams (April 08, 1731 – August 2, 1811) was a merchant, and a delegate for Connecticut to the Continental Congress in 1776, and a signatory of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nWilliams was born in Lebanon, Connecticut, the son of a minister, Solomon Williams, and Mary Porter. He studied theology and achieved law school from Harvard in 1751. He continued preparing for the ministry for a year but then joined the militia to fight in the French and Indian War. After the war, he opened a store in Lebanon, which he called The Williams Inc.\n\nOn February 14, 1771, at almost 40 he married Mary Trumbull, age 25. She was the daughter of Jonathan Trumbull, Royal Governor, and an American politician who served as the second speaker at the United States House of Representatives. Mary Trumbull and William Williams had three children: Solomon, born 1772; Faith, 1774; and William Trumbull, 1777.\n\nWilliams was very active in the protests that preceded the American Revolution. Williams was a member of the Sons of Liberty and later served on Connecticut's Committee of Correspondence and Council of Safety. Williams was a staunch supporter of the non-importation agreements implemented in 1769 to oppose the Townshend Duties and the occupation of Boston by British Regulars. Williams was disappointed when merchants began disregarding the non-importation agreements after the repeal of the Townshend Duties, save for the tax on tea, and he never trusted the intentions of more established merchants, most notably Silas Deane.\n\nOn July 1, 1774, one month after the enactment of the Coercive Acts to punish Boston, Williams pseudonymously published an address \"To the King\" from \"America\" in the \"Connecticut Gazette\". The document, an angry satire, read in part: \"We don't complain that your father made our yoke heavy and afflicted us with grievous service. We only ask that you would govern us upon the same constitutional plan, and with the same justice and moderation that he did, and we will serve you forever. And what is the language of your answer...? Ye Rebels and Traitors...if ye don't yield implicit obedience to all my commands, just and unjust, ye shall be drag'd in chains across the wide ocean, to answer your insolence, and if a mob arises among you to impede my officers in the execution of my orders, I will punish and involve in common ruin whole cities and colonies, with their ten thousand innocents, and ye shan't be heard in your own defense, but shall be murdered and butchered by my dragoons into silence and submission. Ye reptiles! ye are scarce intitled to existence any longer...Your lives, liberties and property are all at the absolute disposal of my parliament.\"\n\nWilliams was elected to the Continental Congress on July 11, 1776, the day Connecticut received official word of the independence vote of July 2, to replace Oliver Wolcott. Though he arrived at Congress on July 28, much too late to vote for the Declaration of Independence, he did sign the formal copy as a representative of Connecticut.\n\nWilliams represented Lebanon, Connecticut, at the state's Constitutional ratifying convention in January 1788. Though Williams had largely opposed the Confederation government, most notably Congress's 1782 agreement to provide five years of full pay and three months of back pay to army officers but not regular soldiers, he ignored instructions from his constituents to vote against ratification. Williams's sole overt objection to the document was the clause in Article VI that bans religious tests for government officials.\n\nThe Reverend Charles A. Goodrich in his book, \"Lives of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence\" (1834), said:\n\n[Williams] made a profession of religion at an early age, and through the long course of his life, he was distinguished for a humble and consistent conduct and conversations. While yet almost a youth, he was elected to the office of deacon, an office which he retained during the remainder of his life. His latter days were chiefly devoted to reading, meditation, and prayer.\n\nWilliams was also pastor of the First Congregational Church in Lebanon, Connecticut, and a successful merchant. Upon his death he was buried in Lebanon's Old Cemetery.\n\nWilliams' home in Lebanon survives and is a U.S. National Historic Landmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "1995975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995975", "title": "Alexandre de Serpa Pinto", "text": "Alexandre de Serpa Pinto\n\nAlexandre Alberto da Rocha de Serpa Pinto, Viscount of Serpa Pinto (aka Serpa Pinto; April 20, 1846December 28, 1900) was a Portuguese explorer of southern Africa and a colonial administrator.\n\nSerpa Pinto was born at the Quinta das Poldras (Tendais) in Cinfães, a Portuguese village on the river Douro. He joined Colégio Militar at age 10. There he became the first student Battalion Commander in 1864, when he joined the Portuguese army and was sent to Portuguese Mozambique. In 1869 he took part in suppressing tribes in revolt around the lower Zambezi.\n\nAlso in 1869, Pinto went to eastern Africa on an exploration of the Zambezi River. Eight years later he led an expedition from Benguela, Portuguese Angola, into the basins of the Congo and Zambezi rivers.\nThe town of Menongue was named \"Serpa Pinto\", after him, up to 1975.\n\nIn 1877, he and Lieutenant Commander Capelo and Lieutenant Ivens, both of the Portuguese navy, were sent to explore the southern African interior. All three had African experience and seemed to be the right age and temperament for the work. They left Benguela in November. Soon after their departure, however, they parted company at Bié, Capello and Ivens turning northward whilst Serpa Pinto continued eastward, gradually shifting his course to the south. He crossed the Cuando (Kwando) river in June 1878 and in August reached Lealui, the Barotse capital on the Zambezi. There he received assistance from the missionary François Coillard, enabling him to continue his journey along the Zambezi to the Victoria Falls. He then turned south and arrived at Pretoria in northern South Africa on February 12, 1879. Capelo and Ivens emerged at Dondo, on the Cuanza River in northern Angola. Serpa Pinto was the fourth explorer to cross Africa from west to east, and the first to lay down a reasonably accurate route between Bié (in present-day Angola) and Lealui. In 1881 the Royal Geographical Society awarded him their Founder's Medal, \"for his journey across Africa ... during which he explored five hundred miles of new country\".\n\nIn 1881 Serpa Pinto published his 2-volume \"Como eu atravessei a África\", translated by Alfred Elwes and published in English as \"How I crossed Africa\". In the same year French and German translations were also published.\n\nIn 1879 the Portuguese government formally claimed the area south and east of the Ruo River (which currently forms the southeastern border of Malawi), and in 1882 occupied the lower Shire River valley as far as the Ruo. The Portuguese then attempted to negotiate British acceptance if their territorial claims, but the convening of the Berlin Conference (1884) ended these discussions. In 1884, Serpa Pinto was appointed as Portuguese consul in Zanzibar, and given the mission of exploring and re-mapping the region between Lake Nyasa and the coast from the\nZambezi to the Rovuma River and securing the allegiance if the chiefs in that area. In 1885, Serpa Pinto undertook an expedition in 1885 with Lieutenant Augusto Cardoso as his second-in-command. Serpa Pinto fell seriously ill and was carried to the coast, where he eventually recovered. Cardoso his twenty-five-year-old lieutenant, continued the exploration, visiting Lake Nyasa and the Shire Highlands, but failed make any treaties of protection with the Yao chiefs in territories west of the lake Malawi.\n\nBritain declined to accept the Portuguese claim that the Shire Highlands should be considered part of Portuguese East Africa, as it was not under their effective occupation. In order to prevent Portuguese occupation, the British government sent Henry Hamilton Johnston as British consul to Mozambique and the Interior, with instructions to report on the extent of Portuguese rule in the Zambezi and Shire valleys and the vicinity, and to make conditional treaties with local rulers beyond Portuguese jurisdiction, to prevent them accepting protection from Portugal. In 1888, the Portuguese government instructed its representatives in Portuguese East Africa to attempt to make treaties of protection with the Yao chiefs southeast of Lake Malawi and in the Shire Highlands and an expedition organised under Antonio Cardoso, a former governor of Quelimane, set off in November 1888 for the lake. Rather later, a second expedition led by Serpa Pinto, who had been appointed governor of Mozambique, moved up the Shire valley. Between them, these two expedition made over 20 treaties with chiefs in what is now Malawi. Serpa Pinto met Johnston in August 1889 east of the Ruo, when Johnston advised him not to cross the river into the Shire Highlands. Although Serpa Pinto had previously acted with caution, he crossed the Ruo to Chiromo, now in Malawi in September 1889. Following minor clashes with Serpa Pinto's force, Johnston's deputy, John Buchanan, declared a British protectorate over the Shire Highlands, despite contrary instructions, although this was later endorsed by the Foreign Office.\n\nShortly after this clash with Britain, Serpa Pinto returned to Portugal where he was promoted to the rank of colonel. He was governor general of Cape Verde from 20 January 1894 until 17 January 1898. \nSerpa Pinto died in Lisbon on 28 December 1900 at the age of 54. His earthly remains were laid to rest in the family grave of António Gomes dos Santos and Francisco de Souza Santos Moreira and their families in the Cemitério dos Prazeres in Lisbon.\nRecognition and honours for his services were not wanting. In Portugal, he was made comendador of the orders of knighthood: Ordem da Torre e Espada, the Ordem Sao Bento de Aviz, and the Ordem de Sao Tiago da Espada; in France the Cross of the Ordre National de la Légion d'Honneur was conferred on him; in Brazil he was made knight of the Ordem da Rosa; and in Turkey he was honoured with the Great Cross of the Order of the Medejidie. He received honorary membership and awards from various scientific societies, including membership of the French Académie des Sciences' Astronomy division, and the \"Founders' Medal\" of the Royal Geographical Society of London. On 24 January 1899 he was honoured by King Carlos I (1863–1908) with the noble title of Viscount. \n\nTo honour and remember him, streets and squares in many Portuguese towns and cities were named after him, for example the Rua Serpa Pinto in Lisbon, Porto, Tomar, Évora, Braganca, Torres Vedras, Rio Maior and Cinfães, to mention only a few. In Angola, the town Serpa Pinto (now Menongue), main seat of the province Cuando-Cubango, was named after him. His name was even given to two ships, and as trade name for products like cigars and biscuits. During the 125th commemoration of the founding of the Sociedade de Geografia de Lisboa, two stamps were issued with a portrait of Serpa Pinto in a prominent place, while a portrait of him also appears on a banknote from Angola. In Cinfães the Serpa Pinto Museum was opened on 20 April 2000, housing a small exhibit dedicated to this famous son of the area. On a small square in front of the Museum is a bust of Serpa Pinto. The house where Serpa Pinto's parents lived in Porto Antigo, Cinfães, on the banks of the Rio Bastanéa (Bestança River), where it flows into the Rio Douro (Douro River), has been transformed into the luxurious Estalagem Porto Antigo and the conference hall there is named after Serpa Pinto. Also the original dwelling and out-houses still stand, but in a neglected state.\nHe was also portrayed in the 100 Angolan escudo banknote issued in 1956.<br>\n\nIn Cinfães was founded the Associação Cultural Serpa Pinto (ACSP), in 2007 published in Diário da República, 2ª. série – Nº. 38 – 22 de Fevereiro de 2008, page 7339. The address is Lugar de Vila Viçosa, Cx Postal 327 4690-906 Cinfães, Portugal. The idea of the Association is to develop cultural, social, scientific, technological and artistic activities in Cinfães, in Portugal, in the C.P.L.P. (Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries) and in all countries interested in the historical course, life and work General Alexandre Alberto da Rocha Serpa Pinto but also contribute to the enrichment, protection and conservation of General Alexandre Alberto da Rocha Serpa Pinto's estate, encourage teaching and research in the areas of Natural Sciences, Anthropology, History and Sociology and to promote culture, defense and conservation of the historical, artistic and cultural heritage of Cinfães, Portugal and C.P.L.P.. It have also an educational function by bringing into being a library, conference facilities and exhibition locale. Furthermore, the Association promote the study the life and work of Serpa Pinto and the era in which he lived in a scientific and inter-disciplinary manner.\n\nAssociação Cultural Serpa Pinto\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "1995991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995991", "title": "Lavinia Miloșovici", "text": "Lavinia Miloșovici\n\nLavinia Corina Miloșovici (born 21 October 1976) is a retired Romanian artistic gymnast. An exceptionally successful athlete on the international competition circuit, Miloșovici, also known as \"Milo\" in the gymnastics community, is considered to be one of Romania's top gymnasts ever and one of the most prolific female all-around medalists ever, earning a total 19 World Championships or Olympic medals in a span of six years. She medalled in every single World Championships meet, Olympic Games and European Championships between 1991 and 1996, and is only the third female gymnast ever, after Larisa Latynina and Věra Čáslavská, to win at least one World Championships or Olympic title on all four events. Miloșovici was also the last gymnast along with Lu Li to ever receive the perfect mark of 10.0 in an Olympic competition and the last to receive the benchmark score of 9.95 at the World Championships. She was inducted into the International Gymnastics Hall of Fame in 2011. Her trademarks included her four-event mastery, consistency, longevity, versatile skill set, and her leadership abilities.\n\nMiloșovici was born in a family with Serbian roots. Her mother, Ildiko, was a competitive volleyball player, while her father, Tănase, was a national team wrestler. She began gymnastics at the age of 6 and moved to the Deva National Training Centre as she excelled in the sport.\n\nMiloșovici's gymnastics career was nearly derailed when she contracted scarlet fever at the age of 10, and again when the Romanian Revolution in 1989 temporarily closed Deva. However, she continued to train, and by 1990, was representing Romania in such international meets as the American Cup and the World Sports Fair. She competed well at the 1991 Junior European Championships, winning two gold medals.\n\nMiloșovici made her debut as a senior in 1991, winning her first all-around title at the Romanian National Championships. She joined the Romanian team at the 1991 World Championships, where she contributed to the team's bronze medal and won her first individual World Championships title, on the vault, and placed third on the balance beam.\n\nMiloșovici won her second individual world title on uneven bars at the 1992 World Championships. At the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, Miloșovici won a total of four medals, placing third in the all around, second with the Romanian team, tying with Hungarian Henrietta Ónodi for the vault gold medal, and winning floor exercise with a perfect score of 10.0. She scored her 10 on the same night that China's Lu Li also scored a 10 (hers being for her performance on the uneven bars). Miloșovici's 10, in the event finals, was only the second awarded in Barcelona, and the last ever awarded at any Olympics. She was the only gymnast at those Games to win 2 individual golds, and combined with an all around medal and 4 overall medals, made the most successful overall gymnast of the Games. She was very close to winning the all around, being tied for 1st with eventual winner Tatiana Gutsu after 3 rotations, but a big hop on her beam dismount to start the night (9.850) and a small hop on her uneven bars dismount in the final rotation (9.900) cost her the victory. Interestingly enough, the same 3 gymnasts that were on the women's all-around podium at the 1992 Barcelona Summer Olympics were the same 3 gymnasts that were on the women's all-around podium at the 1991 DTB Cup, (Milosovici, Gutsu, and Shannon Miller), although in the instance of the latter, the ordering was different, and Milosovici was the All-Around Champion.\n\nAfter the 1992 Olympics, Miloșovici continued to compete, winning the world title on beam in 1993, which completed her quartet of golds on each of the individual apparatuses, and the world silver medal on vault that same year. In 1994 and 1995, she led the Romanian team to two World Championships team titles. Shortly before the 1994 World Championships, she and her teammates staged a strike at Deva to protest nonpayment of prize money owed from the Romanian Gymnastics Federation; in spite of the depleted training time, they still won the team gold medal at Worlds. Miloșovici's best all around finish in World Championship or Olympic competition came in 1994 when she took second to Shannon Miller in a controversial finish, after being considered the early favorite. Uncharacteristic mistakes on bars and beam cost her the win. Milosovici concluded the 1994 Worlds with a silver on floor and a bronze on vault. She lost the floor gold by 0.013 to Dina Kochetkova, with many again feeling Miloșovici was unjustly marked and should have won. At the Europeans a fall off the uneven bars on the dismount kept her off the all around podium but she rebounded to win a gold on vaulting, silver on floor, and bronze on beam in the individual event finals.\n\nShe delivered a dominant performance at the 1994 Team Worlds where she easily won the individual all around points tally with an astounding 39.500 point total, an average score of 9.875 over the 4 events, and led Romania to an emphatic victory. A performance which had she duplicated it at the individual worlds in Brisbane would have easily won her the All Around and likely several event golds. She also received the highest score of the quadrennium at this meet with a 9.950 on Floor exercise. At the 1995 Sabae World Championships, she captured the all around bronze, although she was in tears after the competition as she realized this was likely her last realistic shot at a major all around title. At this point she was affected by growth spurt, and being overshadowed by younger teammates Gina Gogean and Simona Amanar. The only event final she qualified for due to the 2 per country rule was the uneven bars, despite being the fourth highest qualifier on floor (Amanar and Gogean were the top two qualifiers).\n\nMiloșovici won the bronze medal on floor at the 1996 World Championships, before winning the team and floor gold medals at the European Championships. She also finished third in the all around. Miloșovici led the Romanian team to a bronze at the 1996 Olympics, in spite of a spate of injuries that left the squad depleted of several key gymnasts and forced them to compete with only six athletes instead of seven. Milosovici had the rare opportunity to improve upon her third place all around finish in Barcelona; with her consistency and competitors' mistakes, she was tied for the bronze with Amanar, and became the first gymnast since Nadia Comăneci to medal in the all around at consecutive Olympics. This also marked her fourth all-around medal in World and Olympic competition, a feat since equalled only by Svetlana Khorkina, Aliya Mustafina and Simone Biles. In her final competition, she finished eighth in the uneven bars final. She originally qualified for the beam final, but was replaced by her teammate Alexandra Marinescu.\n\nOverall, she won a total of 26 Olympic, World and European medals in her career, with 11 of them gold. She is currently ranked fifth in terms of the total number of medals won at the World Championships, behind Simone Biles, Svetlana Khorkina, Gina Gogean and Larisa Latynina. She is also one of the only 10 female gymnasts to have medalled in all six events at the World Championships.\n\nMiloșovici announced her official retirement in the summer of 1997. After retiring, she returned to Lugoj to coach gymnastics and attended the Sports University in Timișoara.\n\nOn 23 October 1999, Milo married her childhood friend, Cosmin Vinatu. According to Prosport, Cosmin was a sergeant major in the police force. The two were childhood friends, but lost touch when Milo moved to Deva. Then, in 1998, Milo was out with her brother and a group of his friends and they ran into Cosmin at a bar. Needless to say, Milo and Cosmin's friendship was renewed. Their wedding took place at the Termal restaurant in Timișoara, with over 350 guests. Milo told Prosport that the couple expected to live in Timișoara after the wedding, though she does own a house in her hometown of Lugoj. They had one daughter, Denisa Florentina, who was born in 2004 and died in 2008. Milosovici grieves chronically for the loss of her daughter, Denisa, going to the cemetery once or twice per week with her family. The godmother was former teammate, Simona Amânar. In January 2013, Lavinia gave birth to a boy, Cosmin Mihai, and in July 2016 Lavinia's second son, Andrei Nicolae, was born. Adding to her numerous post-career tragedies, however, in-between the birth of her first and second sons, she also suffered a miscarriage. \n\nIn 2002, Miloșovici, along with former teammates Corina Ungureanu and Claudia Presăcan, sparked controversy by posing naked in photographs for a Japanese photobook, \"LCC Gold\", and performing gymnastics routines topless for the Japanese DVDs \"Gold Bird\" and \"Euro Angels\". A number of photographs from the photobook and DVDs were subsequently published in the Japanese magazine \"Shukan Gendai\", and an edited version of the DVDs entitled \"3 Gold Girls\" was released in Germany in 2004. Because the gymnasts had posed for some of the photographs and footage wearing their official Romanian team leotards, the Romanian Gymnastics Federation banned them from coaching and judging in the country for five years, and the Japanese Junior Gymnastic Club Federation contemplated banning Romanian gymnasts from a major international junior competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995992", "title": "Bassem Yakhour", "text": "Bassem Yakhour\n\nBassem Yakhour (; born 16 August 1971 in Latakia, Syria) is a Syrian actor, writer and director.\n\nBorn in Latakia, Baseem Yakhour graduated from Higher Institute of Dramatic Art in 1993 and joined the Syrian actor's syndicate on February 16, 1999. Since 1993, Yakhour has acted in many television series, stage productions and theater. He was also a television presenter for a short time for a show called \"Charisma\".\n\nToday, he is best known for the Spotlight series for which he co-writes and acts. The latter was an important contribution to Syrian art, although the critics were very harsh.\n\nSyria for Arts International productions describes the series as follows: \"A drama work of diverse social subjects, screened through special comedy frame based mainly on making fun of social degeneration, lying, and hot life-contradictions, and also on deep meditation over human and establishment behavior, etc\".\n\nA diverse actor, his work in the Spotlight television series was critical as it gained notoriety when it tackled political issues, such as fraud, lying, and as it tackled social issues such as unemployment and bureaucracy.\n\nBassem Yakhour is one of the few Arabic actors who are capable of performing in both comedy and tragedy. \"Six Stars Family\" and \"Hero of this Time\" are examples of Yakhour's ability to make people laugh, although the jokes touch their wounds and sorrows. \"Salahiddin\", \"Saqr Quraysh\" and \"The Spring of Cordoba\" are examples of Yakhour's capability to perform tragedic roles in both historical or modern genres.\n\nand he is also acts in the new serial that is viewed in Ramadan called Khalid ibn al-Walid\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995993", "title": "Karaš", "text": "Karaš\n\nThe Karaš (in Serbian, also Cyrillic: Караш) or Caraș (in Romanian) is a long river in the Banat region of Vojvodina, Serbia and Romania and a left tributary of the Danube. The Karaš drains an area of and although it has been channeled it is not navigable.\n\nIn Roman times the river was known as Apo, from a Thracian word meaning \"water\". The Hungarian name is \"Karas\".\n\nThe Caraș originates in the Anina Mountains, northeast of the town of Anina, close to the sources of the Bârzava and Nera rivers. It runs through Romania for , flowing to the north in its early reaches before turning southwest at the town of Carașova where it receives many short tributaries, most notably, the left tributary of the \"Lișava\", then passes many villages (including Giurgiova, Ticvaniu Mare, Grădinari, Vărădia, Mercina, Vrani) before it enters the Serbian province of Vojvodina. In Romania, its length is and its basin size is .\n\nRight after crossing the border, the Karaš receives its two major tributaries, the \"Borugu\" from the right, and the \"Vicinic\" from the left. It passes the villages of Kuštilj, Vojvodinci, Dobričevo, Straža and Jasenovo and reaches the eastern side of the Deliblatska Peščara and \"Dumača\" hill, the easternmost side of the Hills of Zagajica. From this point, the Karaš is channeled and incorporated into the last part of the Danube-Tisa Canal. It runs alongside the villages of Dupljaja, Grebenac, Kajtasovo and Banatska Palanka before it ends its course through Serbia, emptying into the Danube near the village of Stara Palanka, across from the tourist resort of Ram.\n\nIn Romania: Carașova, Goruia, Ticvaniu Mare, Grădinari, Vărădia, Vrani\n\nIn Serbia: Kuštilj, Vojvodinci, Dobričevo, Straža, Jasenovo, Dupljaja, Grebenac, Kajtasovo, Banatska Palanka, Stara Palanka\n\nThe following are tributaries of the Karaš (from source to mouth):\n\nLeft: Buhui, Raicovacea, Șereniac, Gârliște, Goruița, Jitin, Lișava, Mercina, Ciclova, Vicinic\n\nRight: Izvoru Mare, Jervanu Mare, Comarnic, Gelug, Dognecea, Barheș, Ciornovăț, Vărădia, Borugu\n\nKrašovani or Karašani (Cyrillic: Крашовани or Карашани; People from the Karaš), are people of South Slavic origin, settled around the town of Carașova in the river's upper course. Known as good farmers and craftsmen with an estimated number of 20,000 after World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1995998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995998", "title": "Thomas Boyd, Earl of Arran", "text": "Thomas Boyd, Earl of Arran\n\nThomas Boyd, Earl of Arran (died c. 1473) was a Scottish nobleman.\n\nThomas was the son of Robert, 1st Lord Boyd, who was a regent during the minority of King James III of Scotland. His father was able to have Thomas created Earl of Arran and Baron Kilmarnock in the Peerage of Scotland, and arrange for Thomas' marriage to Princess Mary Stewart of Scotland, sister of King James III and daughter of King James II of Scotland, in 1467. The marriage was unpopular, especially after Lord Boyd and his brother, Sir Alexander Boyd, were later convicted of treason for abducting young James III, contriving the marriage of Thomas to Princess Mary Stewart (which was considered as an unforgivable insult by King James III), and establishing the regency.\n\nWhile Thomas Boyd and his father were out of the country, negotiating the cession of Orkney to Scotland and King James III's marriage to Margaret of Denmark, the regency was overthrown, and they were attainted for high treason in 1469. However, Thomas fulfilled his mission, that of bringing the King's bride Margaret to Scotland, and then warned by his wife, he escaped with her back to Denmark. He is mentioned very eulogistically in one of the Paston Letters, but practically nothing is known of his subsequent history. He probably died at Antwerp between 1471 and 1473.\n\nOn 20 January 1465, Thomas Boyd was firstly engaged to Lady Marion Kennedy, youngest daughter of Gilbert Kennedy, 1st Lord Kennedy, but this marriage did not take place. After his first marriage to Lady Elizabeth Montgomerie, daughter of Alexander Montgomerie, 1st Lord Montgomerie, he married Princess Mary Stewart, eldest daughter of King James II, before 26 April 1467. Upon their marriage, the Isle of Arran was given to them as Mary's dowry, and Law Castle in North Ayrshire was built for the couple. Being greatly attached to Thomas, his wife Mary later returned to Scotland without him, after he was charged for treason, mainly in hopes of obtaining a pardon for Thomas from her brother King James III. She was however confined at Kilmarnock, and Thomas was summoned to appear within sixty days, which he failed to do so; thus, his marriage to the King's sister was declared null and void, and she was then compelled to marry James, Lord Hamilton.\n\nAccording to Ferrerius, Buchanan, and other old historians, this took place in 1469, but the correct date was probably February or March 1474. Princess Mary Stewart died apparently about Whitsuntide 1488, having had a son and daughter by both husbands. Thomas Boyd's children by Mary, who were both said to have been born abroad, were:\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "1996004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996004", "title": "Uti possidetis", "text": "Uti possidetis\n\nIn the early 17th century, the term was used by England's James I to state that while he recognized the existence of Spanish authority in those regions of the Western Hemisphere where Spain exercised effective control, he refused to recognize Spanish claims to exclusive possession of all territory west of longitude 46° 37' W under the Treaty of Tordesillas.\n\nMore recently, the principle has been used in the modified form \"Uti possidetis juris\" to establish the frontiers of newly independent states by ensuring that the frontiers followed the original boundaries of the old territorial entities from which they emerged. The newly formulated principle has been applied in numerous regions, e.g. South America, Africa, Yugoslavia, and Soviet Union, where centralized governments were broken up, following decolonization or a mandate, or where imperial rulers were overthrown.\nThis use originated in South America in the 19th century with the withdrawal of the Spanish Empire. By declaring that \"uti possidetis\" applied, the new states sought to ensure that there was no \"terra nullius\" in South America when the Spanish withdrew and to reduce the likelihood of border wars between the newly independent states and the establishment of new European colonies.\n\nThe same principle was applied to Africa and Asia following the withdrawal of European powers from those continents, and in locations such as the Soviet Union where former centralized governments fell, and constituent states gained independence. In 1964 the Organisation of African Unity passed a resolution stating that the principle of stability of borders—the key principle of \"uti possidetis\"—would be applied across Africa. Most of Africa was already independent by this time, so the resolution was principally a political directive to settle disputes by treaty based on pre-existing borders rather than by resorting to force. To date, adherence to this principle has allowed African countries to avoid border wars; the notable exception, the Eritrean–Ethiopian War of 1998–2000, had its roots in a secession from an independent African country rather than a conflict between two decolonized neighbours. On the other hand, the colonial boundaries often did not follow ethnic lines, and this has helped lead to violent and bloody civil wars among differing ethnic groups in many post-colonial (and post-Communist) countries, including Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Nigeria, Uganda, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Moldova and the former Yugoslavia.\n\nThe principle was affirmed by the International Court of Justice in the 1986 case \"Burkina-Faso v Mali\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996007", "title": "CONPLAN 8022-02", "text": "CONPLAN 8022-02\n\nAccording to the \"Washington Post\", the United States Strategic Command contingency plan for dealing with \"imminent\" threats from countries such as North Korea or Iran is formally known as CONPLAN 8022-02. The plan was reportedly completed in November 2003, resulting in a preemptive and offensive strike capability. The main plan involves the preemptive use of tactical nuclear strikes (mini-nukes) on deep-ground rocket/bomb installations, computer viruses, and radar disruption technology. \n\nSee: Single Integrated Operational Plan for origins and details.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996013", "title": "Zebra loach", "text": "Zebra loach\n\nThe zebra loach (\"Botia striata\") is a freshwater loach native to rivers and streams in the Western Ghats of India. The maximum size is about . It lives in tropical climate with temperature range of , and prefers water with 6.0 to 7.5 pH.\n\nZebra loaches are peaceful fish suitable to community aquarium tanks. However, being bottom feeders, they may show some aggression against other smaller bottom feeders. Therefore, small corydoras are not suitable tankmates. They should be kept in groups of at least five. Any fewer and they will become stressed. They require some caves in which to hide during most of daylight. \"B. striata\" will accept a wide variety of fish foods, including live food such as blackworms, snails and small shrimps, and most commercial brands of sinking fish foods.\n\nThis species is shy, and will spend much of its time hiding. Also rarely, during times of stress it has been seen to attack smaller fish such as tetras.\n\nAccording to the IUCN, the zebra loach is currently endangered in the wild due to habitat alteration combined with a small native range. Aquarists interested in keeping zebra loach specimens are strongly advised to investigate the source of locally available fishes, and to only purchase those known to be captive-bred. Home aquarium breeding is unknown, but the species is bred on a commercial basis with the use of hormones.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996020", "title": "Zdravko Tomac", "text": "Zdravko Tomac\n\nZdravko Tomac (24 May 1937 – 4 January 2020) was a Croatian politician.\n\nA native of Slavonski Brod, Zdravko Tomac began his political career in the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. There he rose through the ranks, becoming a close associate of Jakov Blažević. In late 1980s he became one of the chief ideologists of the League of Communists of Croatia and one of the closest associates of Ivica Račan.\n\nAfter the Croatian Communist Party rebranded itself into Social Democratic Party of Croatia and lost the 1990 parliamentary elections, Tomac worked very hard to steer the party towards the nationalist course close to Franjo Tuđman and the ruling Croatian Democratic Union. Because of that, Tomac became deputy prime minister in the wartime \"National Unity\" government of Franjo Gregurić, thus becoming one of the first top Communist officials in Eastern Europe to return to a top executive post after the fall of the Berlin Wall. He served as deputy prime minister from August 1991 to June 1992. \n\nBecause of that, many in the Croatian public saw Tomac as just another of many former Communist officials who discarded their former ideology in order to embrace Croatian nationalism. The only difference was in Tomac choosing to remain within the former Communist Party. This served the SDP very well, which made Tomac into one of their most prominent members and thus gained enough nationalist credentials to improve its electoral chances in the long run.\n\nTomac showed this potential in the 1995 Croatian parliamentary election by winning a Sabor seat in Zagreb and later serving as a Zagreb City Assembly speaker and informal opposition leader during the Zagreb Crisis.\n\nTwo years later he ran as an SDP candidate at the 1997 Croatian presidential election. Although Tomac failed to unseat Tuđman, he scored an important victory for himself and his party by finishing second with 21.0% of the vote. He came out on top of former dissident Vladimir Gotovac and the Croatian Social Liberal Party. With the SDP established as the top opposition party in Croatia, it had the upper hand in the negotiations that would lead to the 1998 pre-election pact with HSLS and victory at the 2000 Croatian parliamentary election.\n\nThe 2000 triumph proved to be the beginning of Tomac's political decline. Soon after the parliamentary elections, Croatia had elections for president. The SDP endorsed Dražen Budiša as its candidate and appointed Tomac to be his campaign manager. What looked like a formality turned into a very unpredictable and increasingly vicious contest when Stjepan Mesić joined the fray. When the contest got narrowed to Budiša and Mesić, Tomac began to pander to nationalist and right-wing voters. This didn't have much effect and Mesić got easily elected, with Tomac's position within the party and the new government becoming increasingly marginalised.\n\nAs time went by, Tomac began to drift from Račan and the SDP. He began to criticise ICTY and bitterly oppose extradition of Croatian generals to Hague. Finally, in September 2003 he formally announced his departure from the SDP.\n\nHe founded a new party called Croatian Social Democrats (Croatian: \"Hrvatski socijaldemokrati\"), but this party, even after being allied with a few small right-wing parties, failed to enter the Zagreb City Assembly in the 2005 local elections.\n\nOn January 4, 2020, Tomac died in Dubrava Clinical Hospital after a short, severe illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996028", "title": "Rainbow crow", "text": "Rainbow crow\n\nThe story of the Rainbow Crow is a Lenape legend, symbolizing the value of selflessness and service. After a long period of cold weather, the animals of the community become worried. They decide to send a messenger to the Great Sky Spirit to ask for relief. The Rainbow Crow, the most beautifully feathered bird, offers to make the arduous journey. He travels safely, and is rewarded by the Great Spirit with the gift of fire. He carries the gift in his beak back to his people, but upon his return, he does not appear to be the same bird that he once was. The fire has scorched his plumage black, with only hints of his previous color, and his voice has been made rough and hoarse by the smoke. In this way, his sacrifice is commemorated. \n\nAnother name for Rainbow Crow is Many Colored Crow. This is in reference to the iridescent feathers created from the fire that scorched his plumage black, with only hints of his previous color that reflect when sun light strikes them.\n\nThis legend is the basis of the American animated short film \"Crow: The Legend\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1996030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996030", "title": "Romantic chess", "text": "Romantic chess\n\nRomantic chess was the style of chess prevalent from the late 15th century until the 1880s. Chess games of this period emphasized quick, tactical maneuvers rather than long-term strategic planning. The Romantic era of play was followed by the Scientific, Hypermodern, and New Dynamism eras. Games during this era generally consisted of 1.e4 openings such as the King's Gambit and Giuoco Piano. Queen side pawn openings were not popular and seldom played. The Romantic era is generally considered to have ended with the 1873 Vienna tournament where Wilhelm Steinitz popularized and the . This domination ushered in a new age of chess known as the \"Modern\", or Classical school, which would last until the 1930s when hypermodernism began to become popular.\n\nThe Romantic era is generally considered to have begun with Alexander McDonnell and Louis-Charles Mahé de La Bourdonnais, the two dominant chess players in the 1830s. The 1840s was dominated by Howard Staunton, and other leading players of the era included Adolf Anderssen, Daniel Harrwitz, Henry Bird, Louis Paulsen, and Paul Morphy.\n\nDespite the Romantic era's reputation for dashing tactical play and combinations, positional play and closed games were not at all unknown during this time; they featured prominently in the London tournament of 1851, widely considered the first true chess tournament. Paul Morphy often complained about \"dull chess\" and criticized the Sicilian Defense and queen pawn openings for leading to this sort of game. Morphy included a stipulation in his matches that at least half the games had to begin with a 1.e4 e5 opening.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Nazi Germany co-opted chess as a political tool and to that end circulated propaganda alleging that the age of Romantic chess, dominated by dashing Aryan players such as Morphy and Anderssen, had been derailed by \"cowardly, stingy\" positional chess exemplified by Jewish players like Steinitz, Emanuel Lasker, and others.\n\nThe Romantic era in the arts (notably classical music and poetry) was roughly analogous to the chess world. Existing as time contemporaries with each other, the arts were focused on emotional expression more than technical mastery. This would come to an end towards the end of the 19th century as evolution in the arts (Impressionist music and Symbolist poetry) aligned closely time-wise with Steinitz' emergence as the new stylistic force in the chess world. Some notable chess masters have argued that chess is an art form in addition to a science.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996037", "title": "Robert Boyd, 1st Lord Boyd", "text": "Robert Boyd, 1st Lord Boyd\n\nRobert Boyd, 1st Lord Boyd (died \"c\". 1482) was a Scottish statesman, Lord Chamberlain of Scotland from 1467.\n\nRobert Boyd was knighted, and was created a Peer of Parliament (Lord Boyd) by James II of Scotland at some date between 1451 and 18 July 1454 (the date he took his seat in Parliament). In 1460 he was one of the Regents during the minority of James III. In 1464 he was one of the commissioners at York for a truce with Edward IV of England.\n\nThe date of creation of Boyd's title can be further narrowed to between 1451 and 15 June 1452. On the latter date, the King confirmed the charter of Robert Boyd, Lord of Kilmarnock and of Dalry, conveying one-third of the lands of Lynn in Dalry to Robert Boyd [indweller] of Lynn. Only three months earlier, Andrew Lynn in Dalry was described in another charter as Lord of that Ilk, meaning lord of a property of the same name as his family name.)\n\nLord Boyd conspired with his brother, Sir Alexander Boyd, and obtained possession of young James III in 1466. He was then made by Act of Parliament sole Governor of the Realm, Lord Chamberlain of Scotland for life, and Lord Justice General in 1467. Early in that year, he procured the marriage of his eldest son, Thomas, (created Earl of Arran for that occasion) with Mary Stewart, Princess of Scotland, elder sister of James III, which aroused the jealousy of the other nobles and made his eventual downfall inevitable, since King James III regarded the marriage of his sister as an unforgivable insult.\n\nLord Boyd obtained the cession of the Orkney Islands to Scotland, 8 September 1468, from Christian I, King of Norway, for whose daughter Margaret, he negotiated a marriage with James III. While absent for that purpose he and his son Thomas (the Earl of Arran) and his brother (and coadjutor) Sir Alexander Boyd, were attainted for high treason, whereby his peerage became forfeited. He was living Easter 1480/1, and died before October 1482, it is said, at Alnwick in Northumberland where he had fled in 1469.\n\nJames III's biographer sums Boyd up as an unscrupulous political gambler and an inveterate optimist. To forcibly assume guardianship of an underage King was, indeed, a familiar path to power in medieval Scotland, but it was also a dangerous path. Boyd underestimated the dangers, overestimated his support, and made the fatal mistake of marrying his son to the King's sister, an insult the King would not forgive.\n\nRobert Boyd belonged to an old and distinguished family, of which one earlier Sir Robert Boyd, had fought with Sir William Wallace and Robert The Bruce. He was the son and heir of Sir Thomas Boyd of Kilmarnock (died 9 July 1439). Robert married Mariot (or Janet), daughter of Sir Robert Maxwell of Calderwood. She died after 25 June 1472, apparently early in 1473. They had three sons:\n\n"}
{"id": "1996041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996041", "title": "Galina Starovoytova", "text": "Galina Starovoytova\n\nGalina Vasilyevna Starovoitova (; 17 May 1946, in Chelyabinsk – 20 November 1998, in Saint Petersburg) was a Soviet dissident, Russian politician and ethnographer known for her work to protect ethnic minorities and promote democratic reforms in Russia. She was shot to death in her apartment building.\n\nBorn in the Ural mountains city of Chelyabinsk on 17 May 1946 to a Belarusian father and a Russian mother, Starovoitova earned an undergraduate degree from the Leningrad College of Military Engineering in 1966 and an MA in social psychology from Leningrad University in 1971. In 1980, she earned a doctorate in social anthropology from the Institute of Ethnography, USSR Academy of Sciences, where she worked for seventeen years. She conducted PhD research at the end of the 1970s, focusing on a sensitive topic at that period, specifically on the role of ethnic groups in Soviet cities. The data of her study were drawn mainly from Leningrad. Her PhD thesis, published in 1987, was a study of the Tatars of Leningrad. She also published extensively on anthropological theory, cross-cultural studies, and Caucasian anthropology—with fieldwork notably in the areas of Nagorno-Karabakh and Abkhazia. In early 1988, after the birth of the Armenian national-democratic movement, she became a supporter of the self-determination of the Nagorno-Karabakh region. In December 1988, she accompanied Academician Andrei Sakharov on a fateful trip to Armenia, Azerbaijan and the Karabakh region in an attempt at mediation and reconciliation. From 1994 to 1998, she was a visiting professor at the Watson Institute for International Studies of Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, lecturing on the politics of self-determination for ethnic minorities.\n\nGalina Starovoitova began her political career in 1989, when she was elected as a representative to the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union from Armenia. In the USSR Congress, she became a member of the reformist faction, the Inter-Regional Group of People’s Deputies, which was led by Sakharov and included other notables such as Yuri Shchekochikhin, Sergei Yushenkov, and Boris Yeltsin. In the Congress, her work centered mostly around nationalities' problems, plans for the new federation, and the drafting of a new Soviet constitution. She also advocated for the Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh during the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict. In June 1990, Starovoitova also won a seat in the new RSFSR Congress of People’s Deputies (Russian Federation) from Leningrad (now St. Petersburg), where she served until the dissolution of the Congress in September 1993. As with the USSR parliament, she won her seat in the Russian parliament by a landslide over a competing slate of male candidates.\n\nIn the summer of 1991, Starovoitova served as spokesperson for Yeltsin in his successful campaign for the presidency of the Russian Federation. At that time, Starovoitova had been promoted by several democratic forces for the post of either vice president or minister of defense. Instead, she became presidential advisor on interethnic issues until the end of 1992, when she was dismissed by Yeltsin apparently under pressure from conservative elements for criticizing Moscow's support for Ossetians against the Ingush in the North Caucasus.\n\nBefore re-launching her legislative career in 1995, Starovoitova spent her time at the Institute for the Economy in Transition in Moscow, as co-chair of the Democratic Russia Movement, and as a fellow in the Washington-based United States Institute of Peace. With former political prisoner Sergei Grigoryants, and funding from George Soros, she co-organized a series of international conferences in Moscow in the mid-1990s around the theme \"The KGB: Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow\".\n\nIn 1995, she was elected to the Russian State Duma from the political movement \"Democratic Russia - Free Workers Union\". The movement was led by her and two prominent members of the Moscow Helsinki Group: Lev Ponomarev and the dissident Orthodox priest Gleb Yakunin.\n\nGalina Starovoitova was a strong defender of ethnic minorities. She said, \"If in accordance with international standards we recognize the rights of nations to self-determination, we must recognize it also within Russia.\" Together with Sergei Kovalev and others she negotiated with Dzhokhar Dudaev in attempt to prevent the First Chechen War. They convinced Dudaev to sign a protocol where he agreed to withdraw his demands for immediate Chechen independence and begin official negotiations, according to another Duma member . Sergei Stepashin, then FSK director, and others convinced Yeltsin that military operations were necessary and would be very quick and successful. When the war began, Starovoitova called Yeltsin \"Boris the Bloody\" and said: \"The historic time of Yeltsin the reformer has passed, and his new regime can turn out to be dangerous not just for Russia\".\n\nShe was an editorial board member of \"Demokratizatsiya: The Journal of Post-Soviet Democratization\", a peer-reviewed scholarly journal published in cooperation with the American University and Moscow State University.\n\nOver the years, Galina Starovoitova attended numerous international meetings and discussions, where she had conversations with world leaders including Margaret Thatcher, Jacques Chirac, Václav Havel, Henry Kissinger and Lech Wałęsa.\n\nStarovoitova was strongly against the omnipresence of security services in Russia and believed that lustration was necessary but none of the other elected representatives supported her. Starovoitova has drafted a law on lustration and presented it to the Duma at least 5 times. Her subsequent murder has been linked by some to her work towards making lustration a law in Russia and her opposition to revanche of KGB into power. She said, \"I propose a decision to order a medical examination of deputies of the State Duma, especially in the light of yesterday's voting on the battle against anti-semitism, when many of our colleagues gave us reason to doubt their mental health\".\n\nIn April 1998, she became the leader of \"Democratic Russia\", then registered as an official party, in order to prepare for State Duma elections that were to be held in December 1999. State security people took the post of Prime Minister in succession at the time. Cabinet of GRU-connected Sergei Kiriyenko was replaced in August 1998 by cabinet of SVR veteran Yevgeny Primakov. New leadership also came to the state security services as Vladimir Putin was appointed as head of FSB in July 1998. Galina Starovoitova tried to prevent such people from coming to power using her personal connections with different political figures and with Yeltsin's wife, according to Valeriy Borschov.\n\nStarovoitova opposed the broad mandate of FSB. She made this part of her political platform in \"Democratic Russia\". She voted against nominating Yevgeny Primakov for Prime Minister.\n\nStarovoitova was gunned down in the entryway of her apartment building in St. Petersburg on 20 November 1998. Her aide, Ruslan Linkov, was wounded in the attack. The murder investigation took place under the personal control of Interior Minister Sergei Stepashin, a prominent member of the pro-Western Yabloko party, former reformist FSB boss under Yeltsin and future Prime Minister of Russia. In June 2005, two hitmen, Yuri Kolchin and Vitali Akishin, were convicted of murder and sentenced to 20 and 23 years of imprisonment respectively. Akishin was named as the one who pulled the trigger and Kolchin as one who had organized the attack. On 28 September 2006, Vyacheslav Lelyavin was sentenced to 11 years in prison for his role in organizing the murder. Sergey Musin, Oleg Fedosov and Igor Bogdanov are still wanted for the investigation.\n\nAccording to official investigation, the murder was organized by former GRU hitman Yuri Kolchin. However, the people who ordered this assassination and paid for it have never been found. Valeria Novodvorskaya claimed that the Russian state security services murdered Starovoytova to eliminate her influence on Boris Yeltsin and her resistance in appointing former KGB general Yevgeny Primakov to the Prime Minister position. Novodvorskaya suggested that FSB general Viktor Cherkesov accompanied Starovoitova just before the murder because he knew that she was due to be killed.\n\nShortly before her death, Galina Starovoitova established an award \"for contributions to the protection of human rights and consolidation of democracy in Russia\".\n\nThe award was sponsored by Irina Thomason and the Fund for the Protection of the Rights of Children and Women.\n\nThe recipients so far have been:\n\n\nStarovoitova was buried in a prominent tomb (pictured here in 2009) in the Nikolskoe Cemetery at the Alexander Nevsky Lavra in St. Petersburg. The monument depicts a tattered Russian flag and purportedly uses the pavement from where she was assassinated to cover the grave.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996045", "title": "Paul &amp; Paula", "text": "Paul &amp; Paula\n\nPaul & Paula (Ray Hildebrand, born December 21, 1940, and Jill Jackson, born May 20, 1942) are a former American pop singing duo, best known for their 1963 million selling No. 1 hit record, \"Hey Paula\".\n\nHildebrand was born in Joshua, Texas, and Jackson in McCamey, Texas. Both were attending Howard Payne College (now called Howard Payne University) in Brownwood, Texas in 1962 when a local disc jockey, Riney Jordan, of station KEAN, asked listeners to come to the studio and sing their songs to help the American Cancer Society. The duo sang a song called \"Hey Paula,\" which Hildebrand wrote; the lyrics were inspired by a friend of his, Russell Berry, whose fiancée was named Paula. Jordan decided that Hildebrand and Jackson should record the song, and they did. \n\nShelby Singleton of Philips Records eventually signed the two, but not before changing their professional name (Singleton reasoned that a pair named Ray and Jill singing about \"Hey, hey Paula\" and \"Hey, hey Paul\" did not make sense). \"Hey Paula\" sold over two million copies globally, and was awarded a gold disc by the Recording Industry Association of America (R.I.A.A.) in 1963. The pairing of Paul & Paula was credited with inspiring other famous male/female pairings down the line, mostly from record companies that had originally turned the duo down in 1962. In November 1963 Nino Tempo & April Stevens and Dale and Grace had back-to-back Hot 100 #1s. Jerry Butler was quickly paired with Betty Everett, and Marvin Gaye was paired with a number of female partners before Motown finally settled on Tammi Terrell. A revival of this duet craze started in 1977, when country music stars Kenny Rogers and Dottie West teamed up and recorded a series of big hit duets, such as \"Everytime Two Fools Collide\" and \"Anyone Who Isn't Me Tonight.\" Rogers would also pair up successfully with Kim Carnes, Sheena Easton and (later) Dolly Parton.\n\nThe duo released two regular albums and a Christmas-themed album after the success of \"Hey Paula\", which charted at #1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for the entire month of February 1963. Their follow-up, \"Young Lovers\", reached #6 on the Billboard chart later in the same year.\nIn 1963, American Bandstand signed Paul & Paula to Dick Clark's Caravan of Stars national U.S. tour which was scheduled to perform its 15th show on the night of November 22, 1963 at the Memorial Auditorium in Dallas, Texas until suddenly the Friday evening event had to be cancelled moments after U.S. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated that afternoon while touring Dallas in an open car caravan. \nIn 1965, Hildebrand left the act to complete his college education, having decided that a future in show business was not for him. He made this decision in the middle of another Dick Clark Caravan of Stars road trip, and Clark had to fill in at the last minute. Hildebrand recorded a Christian music album in 1967 called \"He's Everything to Me\". He became best-known among Christian music fans for his 1970s hit song \"Anybody Here Wanna Live Forever?\" Subsequently, Hildebrand joined up with another Christian performer, Paul Land, and during the 1980s and 1990s, they performed comedy and Christian music under the name of Land & Hildebrand. \n\nJackson went on with a solo career, and then married a Los Angeles businessman named Marvin Landon. Since their days as a singing duo, Jill and Ray have remained friends, and well into the early 2000s, they occasionally would get together to sing as Paul & Paula for special events like oldies shows. In 2002, Hildebrand and Jackson returned to Howard Payne University in Brownwood, TX, where they were the homecoming guests of honor and Grand Marshals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996051", "title": "Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle", "text": "Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle\n\nUnterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle (\"Entertainment Software Self-Regulation\", abbreviated USK) is the organisation responsible for video game ratings in Germany.\n\nThese are ratings used from 2003 until 2009–2010.\n\nAccording to the USK itself, the state uses the age rating symbol to regulate whether a computer game may be publicly supplied to children and young persons. Retailers are obliged to comply with the restrictions indicated by the rating. For example, a game approved for children aged 12 and above may not be sold to a 10-year old. Outside of business relations (e.g. parents or adult friends giving the game to a child or youth) there is no such restriction.\n\nAdvertisement of games rated USK 16 or below is not restricted only if the advertisement itself has no content that is harmful to minors. Games without a USK rating are treated like a USK 18 game.\n\nAdditionally the BPjM maintains a \"List of media harmful to young people\" (colloquially known as the “Index”). Titles that are on this list may only be sold on request to adults 18 or older, are not to be advertised in any media or put on display in retail stores. German retail stores, mail order and internet vendors tend to sell only games that do have a USK rating, due to the massive restrictions. These games are still sold from vendors outside Germany into the German market, however numbers are low.\n\nOnly games that are not rated \"harmful to young people\" by the BPjM may get a USK rating. Many non-German publishers and developers choose to release edited versions of their games to try to prevent an 18+ rating either fearing the same negative sales impact an AO rating would have in the US, or out of fear that an 18+ title might be \"indexed\" by the BPjM.\n\nIn 2006 Microsoft chose not to release \"Gears of War\" on the German market. Since the game was imported to the German market nonetheless (without any age limit), the BPjM became involved and put the game on the index list. The same applied to the second instalment. Afterwards the rating procedure was revised, and imported games without a USK rating are automatically considered 18+ regardless of content. The third game did get classified with a USK 18 rating.\n\nUp through 2018, USK has banned games that contain imagery of certain groups, including Nazis, Neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, and the Islamic State, as required by \"Strafgesetzbuch\" (German code) section 86a, by effectively refusing to rate such games making them unavailable to purchase in retail channels. While Section 86a included a \"social adequacy\" clause that allowed such images to be applied to areas like education, science and art (including literature and films), video games were not considered to qualify within that, which the USK enforced. To publish such games in Germany, developers and publishers had to strip out and replace such images, such as replacing the Swastika used on uniforms in \"\" with a novel symbol. On August 9, 2018, USK announced that the German government will relax this Section 86a restriction on video games, as long as the imagery included falls within the \"social adequacy\" allowance. USK will still evaluate how this imagery is used and reject games they believe fail to meet the social adequacy allowance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996060", "title": "Rita Cosby", "text": "Rita Cosby\n\nRita Cosby (born November 18, 1964) is a television news anchor and correspondent, radio host, and best selling author. She is currently a Special Correspondent for the CBS syndicated program \"Inside Edition\", specializing in interviewing newsmakers and political figures. Cosby has received three Emmy Awards, the Jack Anderson Award for investigative excellence, the Matrix Award, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, and the Lech Walesa Freedom Award. October 11, 2010, was declared \"Rita Cosby Day\" in the State of New York for her “extraordinary journalism and exemplary service on behalf of her community.”\n\nThe daughter of a Danish mother and a Polish father Richard Cosby (Ryszard Kossobudzki) who came to the United States after World War II, Cosby was born in Brooklyn, New York. She grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut, where she attended Greenwich High School and freelanced for the local paper. She earned her bachelor's degrees from the University of South Carolina. Cosby balanced college with a position at WACH-TV, the local FOX affiliate. After an internship working for Dan Rather on the CBS Evening News, Cosby found work as an anchor/reporter at KERO-TV in Bakersfield, California, and WBTV in Charlotte, North Carolina.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Cosby worked at Fox News. At Fox, she hosted both \"The Big Story Weekend Edition with Rita Cosby\" and \"Fox News Live with Rita Cosby\".\n\nShe has interviewed over twenty world leaders, conducting historic back-to-back interviews with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. She was the first reporter to see prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay. She also interviewed Serbian president Slobodan Milošević who called her from his prison cell at the Hague. Years earlier, while broadcasting live from Belgrade during the NATO bombing, she broke the news that three American POWs were going to be released.\n\nCosby also made national headlines for her interviews with boxer Mike Tyson, singer Michael Jackson and convicted serial killer David Berkowitz, \"The Son of Sam,\" who wrote to her during the Washington, D.C. sniper shootings in October 2002. As that story unfolded, Cosby secured another major first, by reporting the names and license plate numbers of the sniper suspects. In 2001, Cosby's interview with flight attendant Anne Marie Smith led to a U.S. Attorney's Office investigation of Rep. Gary Condit for obstruction of justice and witness tampering.\n\nCosby served as a lead reporter during the 1996 and 2000 Presidential campaigns. During the Monica Lewinsky investigation, she broke the news that President Bill Clinton was about to be subpoenaed to testify before the grand jury. After receiving an exclusive letter from Timothy McVeigh, who carried out the Oklahoma City bombing, she was granted a rare meeting with Pope John Paul II to discuss death penalty issues.\n\nIn 2005, Cosby moved to MSNBC to host a primetime weeknight show, \"Rita Cosby Live & Direct\". It became the network’s highest-rated show that year, and she did extensive reports for other NBC programs, including \"The Today Show\". She traveled for the network, originating live for several weeks from New Orleans and the Gulf Coast region to report on Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, as well as from the war zone in Afghanistan and along the U.S.-Mexico border. She conducted the last broadcast interview with former Crips gang leader Stanley “Tookie” Williams and was one of a few journalists to witness his execution at San Quentin Prison. Additionally, she conducted rare interviews with Erik Menendez and Dr. Jack Kevorkian, both also behind bars. She left the network in 2007 to pursue other media offers and projects.\n\nSince 2009, she co-hosts the worldwide broadcast of The National Memorial Day Parade simulcast to all US military installations around the globe. Well known in the Mideast, Cosby also interviewed candidates about foreign policy on Israel's TV show, “The Ambassador.” Additionally, Cosby has co-chaired various events internationally, including the Intersec Security Conference in Dubai in 2009. and the Euro-American Women’s Council Forum in Greece in 2010. She was selected by Cosmpopolitan Magazine as a “Fun and Fearless Female.”\n\nCosby often fills in for Nancy Grace on the latter's HLN program, and is heard daily on her WOR Radio program called The Rita Cosby Show. Cosby’s interviews have included: Jimmy Carter, Dick Cheney, Mitt Romney, Ross Perot, Governor Andrew Cuomo, Mark Burnett and Donald Trump.\n\nCosby has authored two books.\n\nOn September 4, 2007, Cosby released a book about Anna Nicole Smith, \"Blonde Ambition: The Untold Story Behind Anna Nicole Smith's Death\". The book details the circumstances around the death of the model in 2007. The book has become a \"New York Times\" bestseller. \"Blonde Ambition\" gained the attention of members surrounding Anna Nicole Smith's estate, resulting in a civil lawsuit against Cosby and her publisher. Two years later the lawsuit was voluntarily dismissed. Part of the proceeds from the sale of the book support D.A.R.E..\n\nIn 2010, Cosby released a memoir, \"Quiet Hero: Secrets From My Father’s Past\". The book became a best-seller on several lists, including the New York Times, USA Today, and the Washington Post. She uncovered a story of heroism and courage in her own family, detailing her father’s youth as a Polish Resistance fighter who battled the Nazis during the Warsaw Uprising in World War II. Senator John McCain called it, “a loving, poignant tribute to her P.O.W. father and freedom.” Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said it’s “a beautiful tribute to the strength of the human spirit.” Lech Wałęsa, former President of Poland, said of Cosby’s father, “One of Poland’s great treasures has now been found.” In 2010, a resolution was passed in the South Carolina Legislature honoring Rita Cosby and her father. The book has raised money for the USO to help wounded soldiers and their families.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996068", "title": "Robert Boyd, 4th Lord Boyd", "text": "Robert Boyd, 4th Lord Boyd\n\nRobert Boyd, 4th Lord Boyd (died 1557 or 1558) was a Scottish nobleman who supported various factions attempting to dominate Scottish politics during the reign of King James V and the minority of Mary, Queen of Scots.\n\nRobert Boyd was the son of Alexander, 3rd Lord Boyd.\n\nRobert Boyd is first mentioned in connection with a feud with the Montgomeries, in which Patrick Montgomerie of Irvine was slain in December 1523. This appears to have been in revenge for the murder of James, 2nd Lord Boyd, in 1484, and the feud continued more or less until 2 May 1530, when Hugh Montgomerie, 1st Earl of Eglinton, proposed a settlement. The parties agreed in Glasgow that Boyd should accept 2,000 merks for the killing of James, and should marry his son and heir to one of the Earl's \"oos\" [house].\n\nOn 24 June 1525 he had a discharge from Archibald, Earl of Angus, for the \"fermes\" of Kilmarnock pertaining to his spouse, Margaret the Queen Mother, and another from Margaret herself, dated 27 November 1529, having been appointed a Squire of the Household on 26 June 1525. Among the Boyd papers is a bond of mutual assistance dated 26 May 1529 between this Robert Boyd and Margaret the Queen Mother and Henry, Lord Methven, her third husband.\n\nOn 13 June 1532 Robert Boyd's son, also called Robert, was granted a nine years' lease on the lands of Kilmarnock from Margaret. Robert Boyd had succeeded his father Alexander as Bailie and Chamberlain of Kilmarnock, and resigned that position on 5 May 1534, when his son was appointed in his place. Henceforth \"Robert senior\" appears as \"formerly in Kilmarnock\" and under this designation he and Helen Somerville, his spouse, had a grant of the lands of Dundonald in Walters-kyle in exchange for lands in Cunyngham on 20 May 1536; under the same description they had a further grant, dated 13 August 1536, of the lands of Chapelton, etc., in the lordship of Stewartoun, in recompense for their renunciation of all their claims and rights to the lands and barony of Kilmarnock. For services in France and elsewhere, he and his wife had a new grant of the said lands \"and of the lands and castle of Dundonald\" on 1 June 1537.\n\nIn 1543 Robert Boyd protested against the reduction of the forfeiture of Sir James Colville of East Wemyss, and early the next year he rendered material assistance to the Regent James Hamilton, 2nd Earl of Arran, against the faction supporting Matthew Stewart, 4th Earl of Lennox, at the Battle of Glasgow. It was doubtless in reward for this help at a critical juncture of the battle that he was ultimately restored as Lord Boyd. The date of this is generally given as 1549, when he is said to have been confirmed by a charter of novodamus in all the estates, honours, and dignities that belonged to his grandfather (Robert Boyd, 1st Lord Boyd). The precise date of this charter, which is not recorded in the Register of the Great Seal, is not given, but the actual date of the restoration of the title was between 22 September 1545 and 17 November 1546. The property, however, was probably restored in 1543, as on 29 October that year he had a letter from the dowager queen, Mary of Guise, discharging the execution of any letters at the instance of the Master of Glencairn, charging the said Robert Boyd or \"any otheris withholderis of the castle of Kilmarnock to deliver the same to him or any of his servants\", and on 11 March 1545 he was served heir to James Boyd, the son of his father's elder brother, in the lands of Kilmarnock, Dairy, Kilbride, etc., being thus acknowledged as head of the family.\n\nRobert Boyd of Kilmarnock was one of those who pledged to defend the country against the English in the Parliament held at Stirling on 26 June 1545. Robert Boyd, son and heir-apparent of Robert Boyd of Kilmarnock, had sasine on precept (a legal instrument giving him feudal tenure) dated 22 September 1545 by the dowager queen Mary, following the resignation of his father. Robert, Lord Boyd of Kilmarnock and Robert, Master of Boyd, his son, witnessed a contract between the Countess of Eglinton and Montgomerie of Langschaw on 17 November 1546 (see also The Lands of Lainshaw).\n\nRobert Boyd was present at the meeting of the Privy Council at St. Andrews on 19 December 1546. Notwithstanding the agreement of 1530, the feud with the Montgomeries still continued, and Sir Neil Montgomerie of Lainshaw was slain by Lord Boyd and his adherents in a skirmish in the streets of Irvine in 1547. This was warmly resented, and the feud raged until 1560–61, when, in the time of his son the 5th Lord Boyd, peace was restored between the parties by a mutual compromise. Robert, 4th Lord Boyd, died between 29 July 1557, when his son is styled Master of Boyd, and 10 May 1558, when the son was \"now Lord Boyd\".\n\nRobert Boyd married Helen, daughter of Sir John Somerville of Cambusnethan, before 1518. She was living on 13 August 1536. He married, secondly, before December 1542, Elizabeth Napier, widow of Humphrey Colquhoun of Luss, and thirdly, before February 1549, Marion, daughter of Sir John Colquhoun of Luss. She survived him, and was married, secondly, to Captain Thomas Crawfurd of Jordanhill. He had two children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996078", "title": "Pachypodium habitats", "text": "Pachypodium habitats\n\nPachypodium habitats consist of isolated, specialized, micro–environmental niches, generally xeric, rocky, frost-free areas within parts of western Madagascar and southern Africa. \"Pachypodium\" species are often indifferent to the regional ecological, biotic zone of vegetation, a fact which explains some of \"Pachypodium\" morphology and architecture. The large scale vegetation zones are in some cases irrelevant to the micro-environments of \"Pachypodium\", in the sense that the xeric niches may be embedded in larger mesic biomes.\n\nMost \"Pachypodium\" are rupicolous species occur on rocky outcrops, steep hills, and on inselbergs or kopjes, land or rocky masses which have resisted erosion and stand isolated in level or gently sloping terrain, sometimes above a forest canopy. Rocky outcrops, steep hills, and inselbergs create microclimate conditions that may be different from the general climate of a region.\n\nThe habitats of \"Pachypodium\" are thought of as arid ecological, even when they occur in prehumid zonobiomes, because the taxon's topographic position and microclimate conditions differ significantly from the context of the greater ecological conditions within the landscape. The prehumid zonobiomes are humid zones of regional biotic community characterized chiefly by the dominant forms of plant life and prevailing climate, such as forests or mountains. On these ecological islands the flora significantly differs from the greater surrounding zones of vegetation, where a smaller immediate area under the influence of a micro-environmental condition is defined. In larger areas of vegetation, the isolation of these plants in these \"arid islands\" become very conspicuous during prolonged periods without rain.\n\nThe plants on outcrops, steep hills, and inselbergs are subjected to fluctuating moisture, high winds, and extremes in temperatures. This exposure occurs because, in the case or outcrops and inselbergs, all plants typically are growing in fissures that often have shallow soil and are exposed within the landscape. Pachypodium typically grows in frost-free areas with the exception of P. bispinosum and P. succulentum. The latter two species can sustain winter temperatures reaching into -10 °C).\n\nThe regions where \"Pachypodium\" biotypes exist are (a) situated between sea-level and 2000 meters and (b) are defined by the effects of temperatures. Without exception, all \"Pachypodium\" share in a preference for sunny, xeric habitats. Their exclusion from humid forests is almost entirely the case except where \"inselbergs\" surge above the humid, forest canopy: an example of \"Pachypodium\" response to micro-environments than larger vegetative types.\n\nOnly plants with special adaptations to extreme drought can survive exposed rocky habitats. Plants with special morphological adaptations produce offspring that can bear the intensity of these arid, xeric, exposed micro-environments. \"Pachypodium\" employs two mechanisms to adapt to these conditions:\nIn some instances, the pachycaule trunks are geophytic and exist underground as is the case for \"Pachypodium bispinosum\" and \"Pachypodium succulentum.\"\n\nOn outcrops and inselbergs, \"Pachypodium\" species root in the clefts, fissures, and crevices of these rocky formations. The non-succulent roots penetrate deeply into the accumulated soil and humus in these crevices. On these geological formations, cracks in the rocks will fill quickly with water that can penetrate quite deeply. Under these conditions, there is very little evaporation so that almost all the collected water remains. Therefore, rocky substrates provide moisture in the habitat, so long as there is not appreciable runoff from the rock surfaces and there is plenty of accumulated fine soil in the cracks, which, in turn, retains water. In these conditions, \"Pachypodiums\" can store enough water in their trunks to easily withstand a dry period of five or more months.\n\nInselbergs are quite common in Angola extending into Namibia, Zimbabwe, and western Madagascar. Inselbergs have been demonstrated to support a plant community dramatically different from their surroundings (Rapanarivo,1999a). What little is known about seed dispersal of \"Pachypodium\" supports a scattering effect confined to sets of outcrops and inselberg landscapes. Pachypodium seed dispersal is carried out by wind, suggesting the scattering target as outcrops and inselbergs. Yet, according to \"Rapanarivo et al.\", this type of dispersal might not be the best method for the genus. The Rapanarivo study suggested, instead, that seedlings tended to emerge around \"mother\" plants that presumably have been well-established, rather than on distant outcrops or inselbergs. Evidence for this conclusion is found in the occurrence of \"P. densiflorum\" from Kandreho to Zazafotsy where seeds have dropped in between inselbergs and outcrops. Other examples include \"P. eburneum\", \"P. windsorii\", \"P. inopinatum\", and \"P. decaryi\" where in all cases seed distribution is restricted; because the wind does not always carry seeds very far from the host plant.\n\nThe substrate plays a critical role in the creation of micro-environmental \"arid islands.\" It has been recorded, for instance, that vegetation on rocks exposed to the sun may reach temperatures of 50 °C (122 °F) to 60 °C (140 °F), an almost lethal exposure. A black colored rocky substrate tends to be the hottest in these micro-environments. Yet, even sandstone is not immune to this thermal condition as it, too, can reach 60 °C (140 °F) by day. This factor in the micro-environmental conditions of \"Pachypodium\" causes many plants to occupy fissures on these rocks where soil and humus has collected.\n\nOther substrates encountered by \"Pachypodium\" include: (in Madagascar) Mesozoic limestone, granite, gneiss, sandstone, quartzite, sand, schist, Tertiary calcareous, sandy loam, basalt, and sandy soil; And (in continental southern Southern Africa) quartzite, sandstone, clay, gravel, sandy soil, dolomite, granite schist, basalt, limestone, rhylite, sand and stone, and dolerite.\n\nA substrate of variable depth sand with laterite hosts a number of \"Pachypodium\", such as \"P. rutenbergainum\", \"P. bispinosum\", \"P. geayi\", \"P. lamerei\", \"P. namaquanum\", \"P. rosulatum\", \"P. saundersii\", and \"P. succulentum\". Laterite is a red residual soil in tropical and subtropical regions that is leached of soluble minerals, aluminum hydroxides and silica, but still contains concentrations of iron oxides and iron hydroxides.\n\nSand can readily store water because of its high percolation rate. Very deep sand bodies present yet another issue: \"seepage\". If water accumulates within deeper impermeable substrate, \"Pachypodium\" can gain a footing in the sandy soil type. Yet in a sense both shallow and deep sand substrates has water available to \"Pachypodium\". With shallow sand substrates, \"Pachypodium\" grow on sand dunes close to the sea. Examples include \"Pachypodium geayi\" near Tuléar, Madagascar and northwest and west coastal regions for \"Pachypodium rutenbergianum\". Often in shallow sandy areas, the water table is high so that \"Pachypodium\" send out long roots systems.\n\nWhere water is in a deep, sandy substrate, \"Pachypodium\" grow on sand \"over\" laterite red soil. Laterite is relative impermeable and thus traps water. Provided that the sand is not too deep, a water source is available to \"Pachypodium rosulatum\" and \"Pachypodium rutenbergianum\" near Antsohihy and Ankarafantsika, Madagascar. In Anjajavy Forest and other sites within the Madagascar dry deciduous forests \"Pachypodium\" thrive growing above the limestone tsingy.\n\n\"Pachypodium\" grows in various types of substrates. In some cases, some species inhabit only one substrate. \"Pachypodium ambongense\", \"P. decaryi\", and \"P. windsorii\" grow exclusive on calcareous rocks. \"P. brevicaule\" and \"P eburneum\" are contained to quartzite. Other cases demonstrate that species can grow in multiple substrates. \"P. cactipes\", \"P. densiflorum\", and \"P. horombense\" dwell mainly on gneiss and granite. \"P. rutenbergianum\" grows in various substrates, but particularly on sand and laterite. Sand provides a substrate for \"P. geayi\" and \"P. rosulatum\". In African, \"P. namaquanum\" can grow on three substrates: granite, quartzite, and sand. The other species likewise can be found on myriad, various substrates: limestone, granite, gneiss, sandstone, quartzite, sand, schist, tert calcareous, sandy soils, basalt, and sandy loam in Madagascar. In Africa, the substrate ranges from: quartzite, sandstone, clay, gravel, sandy soil, dolomite, granite, schist, basalt, limestone, rhylite, and dolerite. The more adaptable the taxon is to substrate seems to be indication of how specialized the species is within its habitat in the landscape and climate.\n\n\"Rapanarivo et al.\" sampled only half of the sites in Madagascar for pH level reading. The results show no significant difference in the soil type pH Level recorded in literature.\n\n\"Pachypodium\" have a pH range from strictly acid soils with a pH Level of 3.5 to 5 to neutral to Alkaline soils at a pH level of 7 to 8. Species growing on gneiss, granite, and quartzite adapt to acidic soils. Species preferring a pH level of 3.5 to 5 are \"Pachypodium brevicaule\", \"P. cactipes\", \"P. densiflorum\", \"P. eburneum\", and \"P. rosulatum.\" The species growing on calcareous, limestone, for instance, adapt to a basic substrate. Species growing in acid to almost basic soil that have a pH level between 4.5 to 7 are \"P. lamerei\" and \"P. rutenbergainum\". \"P. meridionale\" grows in neutral soils. And, some species tolerate both acidic and basic soil conditions. \"P. sofiense\" can be found in either soil condition. (For species that grow in only one type of soil pH condition maintaining that \"simulacrum\" of acidity or alkalinity is crucial to success in cultivation.)\n\nWithin the \"arid islands\" or micro-environments, the difference between vegetative type, acidity and immediate acidity of the surrounding biotopes of \"Pachypodium\" seem to be a significant factor in defining habitat type.\n\n\"Rapanarivo et al.\" measured the pH levels for the soil in half the sites of \"Pachypodium\" endemic to Madagascar. The pH ranges approximately from 3.5 to 7. Strictly acid soils that had a pH level of 3.5 to 5 were preferred by \"Pachypodium brevicaule\", \"P. cactiples\", \"P. densiflorum\", \"P.eburneum\", and \"P. rosulatum\". The next level, acid to basic soils, with a pH between 4.5 and 7 were suitable for \"P. lamerei\" and \"P. rutenbergianum\". On soils with a neutral pH level of 7, \"P. meridionale\" inhabit. \"P. sofiense\" grows on calcareous soils but also in acid soils with a pH level of 4. \"P. lealii\" grows on outcrops of granite in fairly fertile, acid soil.\n\nIn the mainland African continent, \"Pachypodium\" are known to inhabit areas from sea level for the species \"P. bispinosum\" to 1600 meters for \"P. lealii\". In Madagascar, the range is roughly the same with \"P. cactiples\", \"P. geayi\", and \"P. rutenbergainum\" inhabiting at sea level to \"P. brevicaule\" reaching an altitude of 1900 meters, virtually the uppermost limit for the genus.\n\nAverage annual temperature regimes vary approximately 13 °C (55 °F) for \"Pachypodium brevicaule\", \"P. densiflorum\", and \"P. eburneum\" to 26.7 °C (81 °F) for the species \"P. decaryi\", \"P. rutenbergainum\", and \"P. windsorii\". In continental southern Africa, the extreme temperatures range from -10 °C (14 °F) for \"P. succulentum\" locations to as much as 45 °C (113 °F) for \"P. bispinosum\", \"P. lealii\", and \"P. namaquanum\". In winter time, snow remains a possibility for Africa's south-eastern Mountain Grassland. Importantly the African species of \"Pachypodium\" live in habitats with a heat regime resembling greater amplitudes than those of Madagascar. There, in the central part where most species come from, frost occasionally occurs. One station there has recorded a temperature of -2.6 °C (27 °F) whereas another has recorded a low of -6.3 °C (21 °F). In the sub–arid regions of Madagascar, the maximum temperature recorded can climb up to 40 °C (104°).\n\nAnnually in the southern part of the African continent the rainfall varies from 75 mm (2.95 inches) for the \"Pachypodium namaquanum\" to 800 mm (31.50 inches) for \"P. saundersii\". The west coast of South Africa and Namibia receives annually less than 100 mm (3.94 inches) but the fog coming off the Atlantic Ocean plays a significant role in maintaining plant diversity. Madagascar, on the other hand, can receive precipitation from 344 mm (13.54 inches) annually for the regional habitats of \"P. geayi\", \"P. lamerei\", and \"P. meridionale\" to 1985 mm (78.15 inches) for \"P. baronii\", \"P rosulatum\", and \"P. rutenbergianum\". These lower values of precipitation apply to the spiny desert and Madagascar dry deciduous forests while the higher rainfall regimes apply to the (eastern) lowland rainforests. There is little commonality in precipitation regimes for \"Pahypodium\". Therefore, a precipitation regime for a species of \"Pachypodium\" depends upon a habitat's location relative to the influences of the Atlantic and India Oceans and the various mountain ranges and open expanses of southern continental Africa and the island of Madagascar.\nOne common thread holds true for the genus: all \"Pachypodium\" are succulent plants making use of their trunks and their spines to inhabit dry, xeric climates.\n\n\"Pachypodium\" represent the dry flora of continental Africa and Madagascar. The genus grows in areas where there are significant periods of dry months. This dry period can vary from 5 months for \"Pachypodium brevicaule\" to 10 or more months for \"P. cactipes\", \"P. geayi\", \"P. lamerei\", and \"P. meridionale\". It would seem likely that the Atlantic and India Oceans pay a big role in the creation of weather conducive to rainfall. The effect of mountains might also affect the localized conditions of the climate for \"Pachypodium\".\n\nThere are no fossil records of \"Pachypodium\", a fact that does exclude analysis to determine common ancestry and current relationships between taxa. Yet certain conclusions can be drawn from the geology of the landscape itself to the past natural history of \"Pachypodium\". Geological history demonstrates that \"Pachypodium\" and other genera like \"Aloe\", \"Euphorbia\", \"Cissus\", \"Sesamothamnus\", \"Kalanchoe\", and \"Adansonia\" existed before the separation of Madagascar from continental Southern Africa. \"Pachypodium\" and these other genera, for instance, are represented on both Madagascar and the mainland, suggesting that their populations were once continuous within the landscape before the Gondwanaland continental separation about 66 million years ago in the Cretaceous period.\n\nThe diversity of \"Pachypodium\" in Madagascar, as noted, is the result of accelerated evolution that occurs in xeric climates and dry landscapes. Three factors contribute to the acceleration:\n\nTherefore, the exceptional micro-endemism (native or confined to a certain habitat) occur in Madagascar as a result of isolation of flora in very different climates, landscapes, or environments at an exceptionally small scale. \"Pachypodium\" have proven to be no different. The scale is so small that it is thought that, in some instances, the resolution of speciation of this flora is limited to just a single outcrop of granite, for instance. Efforts at maintaining possible habitats must be weighed with the potential for the economic development of the Malagasy people. Conservation may become a high priority, dependent upon an accurate catalogue of species and equally an understanding of the potential habitats of \"Pachypodiums\" yet to be discovered in Madagascar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996079", "title": "Robert Boyd, 5th Lord Boyd", "text": "Robert Boyd, 5th Lord Boyd\n\nRobert Boyd, 5th Lord Boyd (c. 1517 – 3 January 1590) was a Scottish noble and courtier.\n\nRobert was the only son and heir of Robert, 4th Lord Boyd, was born about 1517, and first appears in the historical record on 5 May 1534, when he was appointed Bailie and Chamberlain of Kilmarnock in place of his father. On 6 September 1545 he, as son and heir-apparent of Robert Boyd of Kilmarnock, had a charter of the Lordship of Kilmarnock on his father's resignation, with sasine following 22 September. On 10 February 1549 he granted a charterer to Marion Colquhoun, his father's wife, and he himself had a charter of the lands of Auchiutorlie and others on 14 October 1550. In his time was ended the Boyd-Montgomerie feud, which had lasted since 1484. On the 25 August 1563 Hugh Montgomerie, 4th Earl of Eglinton, and Robert, Lord Boyd, entered into a mutual bond of defence, and the same day the former assigned to the latter his right to the office of Bailie of the canon lands of Cunyngham pertaining to the Canons and Chapter of Glasgow.\n\n1560 Hew Montgomerie of Hessilheid, is one of the witnesses to the contract between Robert Lord Boyde and Neil Montgomery of Langschaw, at Glasgow.\n1563 the same Hew Montgomerie signing himself Hugo of Hessilheid witnessed an Instrument of Assignation [land deed] by Hugh 3rd Earl of Eglington to Robert Lord Boyde of the bailliary lands of the canon lands in Cunningham.\n1576 Hew Montgomerie of Hassilheid [Hazelhead] was witness to the marriage of Hugh Montgomery [afterwards the 4th Earl] of Eglington to Gelis Boyde daughter of Robert Lord Boyde.\nHugh and Gelis had only one son Hugh Montgomerie 5th Earl of Eglington. 5th earl Hugh Montgomery son of Hugh & Gelis had no children so he left everything to his cousin.\n1582 Hew Montgomerie was witness to the contract of marriage between Robert master of Seaton and Margaret Montgomerie the daughter of Hugh 3rd Earl of Eglington. \n6th earl Alexander Seaton [This cousin was, was man of the hourson of Margaret Montgomery and Robert master of Seaton.]\nAnother youngest son of 5th Robert lord Boyd was Col. David Boyd who went to Northern Ireland. In 1609 Col. David Boyde was a cadet of the house of the Kilmarnock family. On the 2nd Aug. 1609 Con O'Neil granted to Col. David Boyde the townland of Ballymachaecet [Ballymacarret East Belfast] one parcel of land, without woods, called Stranmore [Stormount] in the parish of Knockcolmkill [Knock Belfast] between the river of Belfast [Lagan] and the river of Strathaream and the townland of Ballymurtery he had a son called Robert Boyd. Montgomery Manuscripts.\n\nBoyd first appears in Parliament when it met at Edinburgh 29 November 1558, and he was then elected on the Articles.\n\nBoyd supported Lords of the Congregation, in their war with Mary of Guise the Queen-Regent, and was with them at Perth May 1559. In February 1560 he was one of the signatories to the Treaty of Berwick, by which Queen Elizabeth I of England agreed to send a force to assist them in driving out the French, and the following April he joined the English army at the Prestonpans. On the 27 of that month he was one of the Scottish nobles who signed the bond pledging themselves \"to set forward the reformation of religion and to expel the French.\"\n\nRobert Boyd was present at the unsuccessful attack made on Leith on 7 May by the English, and on the 10 signed the document by which the Treaty of Berwick was confirmed. On 16 August 1560 he signed the address to Elizabeth, praying her to marry the James Hamilton, Earl of Arran, and on 27 January 1561 he subscribed the \"Book of Discipline of the Kirk\". He was also a party to the bond signed at Ayr on 3 September the following year to \"maintain and assist the preaching of the Evangel\". He took part in the attempt on Edinburgh after the marriage of Queen Mary to Lord Darnley, for which he was cited to appear before the King and Queen on 6 September, and before the Privy Council 29 October. He was declared guilty of \"lèse majesté\" on 1 December 1565. Shortly afterwards on 6 March 1566, he had a pardon from \"Henry, King of Scots\", and was commanded to repair to Court. Boyd's political attitude now underwent a complete change. He was one of the jury who acquitted Bothwell, 12 April 1567, and 17 May following, two days after the Queen's forced marriage with that nobleman, was made a Privy Councillor. From this time forward he was unceasing in his efforts to obtain the release and restoration of his Queen. Nevertheless he joined Moray's Council, but immediately left it on Mary's escape from Loch-leven, 2 May 1568; he joined her at Hamilton with two of his sons and a considerable force, and fought for her at the battle of Langside, 13 May. After that defeat he retired to Kilmarnock, and on 24 May was ordered by the Council to deliver \"the castell, tour, and fortalice of Kilmarnock, and also the tour and fortalice of Law\", which he did. He joined in the letter to the Duke of Alva (general and governor of the Spanish Netherlands), asking for his assistance on Mary's behalf, 30 July.\nIn September Boyd was appointed one of Bishop John Lesley' colleagues for the conference to be held at York, and while there is accused of having \"practised to steale away\" Mary secretly. He afterwards accompanied the Bishop to London, and was one of the Commissioners for Queen Mary. Lord Boyd was entrusted by Thomas, Duke of Norfolk with a diamond to deliver to Queen Mary at Coventry as a pledge of his affection and fidelity, and in a letter to him, apparently written in December 1569, she says: \"I took the diamant from my lord Boyd, which I shall kepe unseene about my neck till I give it agayn to the owner of it and me both\". On 4 June 1569 he was appointed by her to treat with her subjects of Scotland anent a reconciliation,\n\nAt this time he stood very high in the estimation of Mary, who desired to retain him, with the Bishop of Ross, permanently about her person. Permsion for this was granted by Elizabeth, 30 March.\n\nBefore this permission was received, however, Boyd had returned to Scotland, and was actively engaged in preparing for a general rising in Mary's favour. He was suspected of complicity in the murder of the James, 1st Earl of Moray on 22 January 1570, and was with the Hamiltons at Glasgow 17 February. On the Friday after, 22 February, he and the Archibald, 5th Earl of Argyll met the William, 6th Earl of Morton and the Laird of Lethington at \"Dawkethe\", and on 16 April he signed the letter from the Duke of Châtellerault to Queen Elizabeth, praying her to come to an agreement with Mary. In June 1570 he is mentioned as being at Kilmarnock and remaining \"constantly at the Queen's obedience\". In a postscript to Randolph's letter to Sussex, 21 August, he says: \"The 'brute' is that Lord Boyd is taken\". In September Queen Mary mentions him as one of the nobles from whom two could be chosen to treat on her behalf with Elizabeth, and the Bishop of Ross writes to him, 1 October: \"The English will be content to restore the Queen of Scotland to her realm, I take it. But tliat they have the Prince, her son, in their hands\". Early in 1571 he appears to have been again in England; on 10 March the Bishop of Ross writes to Burghley: \"Morton promised to Boyd before his departure out of Scotland to abstain from all that might hinder the Queen's restitution, and to agree\", but he was back at Edinburgh in April, and on 30 May Morton declared to him that the treaty was dissolved.\n\nBoyd attended the meeting of the nobility at Dunblane on 17 July 1571, and is recorded as having endeavoured to bring all to the Queen's side; but on 12 August he, together with the Earls of Argyll, Oassillis, and Eglinton, Econsidering the calamite quhairwith this realme, thair native cuntre, is plagit\", and that the Queen was detained in England, came to an agreement with the Earls of Morton and Mar to serve the King.\n\nThe Queen had evidently anticipated something of the kind, as on 28 June she had written to de la Motte Fénelon that she was advised that Argyll, Atholl, and Boyd \"comme désespérés d'aucuue ayde commancent à se rettirer et regarder qui aura du meilleur\".\n\nOn 5 September Lord Boyd was a consenting party to the election of the Earl of Mar as Regent, and two days afterwards he was made a Privy Councillor. The same day he signed the admonition to those who held Edinburgh against the King. On 8 September he had a remission under the Great Seal. He was included in the Act of Indemnity of 26 January 1572, and subscribed the Articles of Pacification at Perth on 23 February 1573, by one of which he was appointed one of the judges of the trial of claims for restitution of goods arising out of acts of violence committed during the Civil War; Provost of Glasgow 1574 to 1577, and an Extraordinary Lord of Session 24 October 1573.\n\nOn 2 January 1574 Boyd obtained from Morton charters of the offices of Bailiary and Justiciary of the regality of Glasgow for himself and his heirs, having in the previous November forcibly ejected Sir John Stewart. The same year he was appointed a Commissioner for musters in the Bailiary of Cunningham. Boyd lost his seat both at the Council table and on the Bench, but on Morton's appointment as Prime Minister in July he was again appointed a Privy Councillor, and on 25 October had his seat on the Bench restored to him. On the 23rd of the same month he was compelled to surrender the Bailiary of the Regality of Glasgow to the King, as Earl of Lennox On 8 September he was one of the eight noblemen nominated by the King for quieting the troubles \"that be thair gude counsale and assistence sa gude and a work may proceid and be set fordwart, to the plesour of God, his Hienes obedience and the repose and quietnes of the troublit commounwelth\".\n\nThe next year, he was, on 1 May 1575, appointed one of the commission to pursue and arrest the Lords John and Claude Hamilton, who were charged with the murders of the Regents Moray and Lennox. They, however, made good their escape into England. The commissioners were thanked by Parliament for their services 22 May. Lord Boyd was a party to the conspiracy known as the Raid of Ruthven, but on its collapse he retired to France, from whence he was recalled by a highly complimentary letter from King James, dated 11 February 1586. He was back in Scotland before 21 June, when for the third time he was appointed an Extraordinary Lord of Session, and he was one of the three Scottish commissioners who negotiated the treaty of alliance with England, which was signed 5 July.\n\nOn 4 April 1588 he was a commissioner to raise the £100,000 for the expenses connected with the King's marriage. On 4 July that year he resigned his seat on the bench.' In 1589 he was placed on the commission to enforce the statute against the Jesuits, and in October, on the King's leaving for Norway, was constituted one of the Wardens of the Marches, with a seat on the Council. This was his last public appearance, and he died 3 January 1590, aged seventy-two, having for over thirty years played a prominent part in Scottish history. He was buried in the Low Church at Kilmarnock. His will was proved at Edinburgh, 8 June 1590.\n\nG.R Hewitt writing of Robert Boyd in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography wrote:\nBoyd had been careful to pursue the policy commenced by his father in cultivating the support and friendship of his neighbours. Among the Boyd Papers are numerous bonds of manrent. He had, however, broken the old family alliance with the Mures, and a feud continued for several years, till, on 14 September 1589, Lord Boyd paid John Mure of Rowallan 350 marks for the slaughter of his father.\n\nOn 24 August 1536 Humphrey Colquhoun of Luss, as lord superior, granted to Robert Boyd and Margaret Colquhoun, daughter and heiress of John [sic] Colquhoun of Glinns, his spouse, a charter of the lands of Glens, in Stirling, and they had, 18 February 1547, a charter under the Great Seal of Balindoran in the same county. He acquired the barony of Portincross and Ardneill from Robert Boyd of that place by contract, 19 April 1572, and had sasine 24 May 1574, following a Crown charter of 11 March of the said lands \"formerly belonging to Archibald Boyd\". He also had charters of Giflardland, on resignation by Isabella and Margaret Oraufurd, 14 September 1577, and of Bedlay, Molany, etc. 10 February 1582-83.\n\nLord Boyd married (contract dated 1535 ) his cousin-german, Margaret, daughter and heiress of George (not Sir John) Colquhoun, 4th of Glens, by his wife Margaret Boyd, by which marriage the estates of Glens, Bedlay, Benheath, Stablegreen of Glasgow, and other lands passed to the Boyds. She survived him, and died a widow August 1601, being buried in the Metropolitan Church of Glasgow, where there is a tomb to her beside St. Mungo's well in the south-east of the lower church. By her will, dated 13 May 1601, she appointed Alexander Colquhoun of Colquhoun and Luss her executor. They had issue : — \nBoyd had besides a natural son: Colonel Daind Boyd of Tourgill. Daind had letters of legitimation under the Great Seal 11 July 1582 and a grant of the lands of Tourgill 8 August 1598. David Boyd of Tourgill, Provost, appears as a witness at Edinburgh 6 November 1613. Daind married Margaret Wallace, Lady Hayning, a widow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996094", "title": "Riding a rail", "text": "Riding a rail\n\nRiding the rail (also called being \"run out of town on a rail\") was a punishment most prevalent in the United States in the 18th and 19th centuries in which an offender was made to straddle a fence rail held on the shoulders of two or more bearers. The subject was then paraded around town or taken to the city limits and dumped by the roadside. \n\nBeing ridden on a rail was typically a form of extrajudicial punishment administered by a mob, sometimes in connection with tarring and feathering, intended to show community displeasure with the offender so they either conformed their behavior to the mob's demands or left the community.\n\nA story attributed to Abraham Lincoln has him quoting a victim of being ridden out of town on a rail as having said, \"If it weren't for the honor of the thing, I'd just as soon it happened to someone else.\"\n\nIn the film \"O Brother, Where Art Thou?\", Homer Stokes denounces the Soggy Bottom Boys as hostile to the social order, accusing them of associating with African Americans. Stokes then reveals that he is a member of the Ku Klux Klan, further angering the crowd, whereupon they run him out of town on a rail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996099", "title": "William Boyd, 3rd Earl of Kilmarnock", "text": "William Boyd, 3rd Earl of Kilmarnock\n\nWilliam Boyd, 3rd Earl of Kilmarnock (died 1717) was a Scottish nobleman.\n\nHe fought for the British Government during the Jacobite rising of 1715.\n"}
{"id": "1996106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996106", "title": "Pydna", "text": "Pydna\n\nPydna (in Greek: Πύδνα, older transliteration: Pýdna) was a Greek city in ancient Macedon, the most important in Pieria. Modern Pydna is a small town and a former municipality in the northeastern part of Pieria regional unit, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Pydna-Kolindros, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of 105.059 km, the community 41.334 km. Pydna is situated in fertile land close to the Thermaic Gulf coast. The main village of the former municipality is Kitros. It lies 6 km north of Korinos, 8 km south of Methoni and 13 km northeast of Katerini. Motorway 1 and the Piraeus–Platy railway (nearest station at Korinos) pass east of the village.\n\nAncient Pydna was already a part of the Macedonian kingdom under Alexander I (Thucydides I.137.1). It was unsuccessfully besieged by the Athenians in 432 BC and again, after seceding from the Macedonian kingdom, in 410 BC by Archelaus I who successfully captured the city and transferred its population further inland, possibly at the site of modern Kitros; however, the old site was re-populated in the early 4th century. The Athenians, under Timotheus, seized Pydna in 364-363 BC, only to have it retaken in 357 BC by Philip II of Macedon. Pydna would remain part of the kingdom of Macedonia until its Roman conquest. In 317 BC, Alexander III's mother, Olympias took refuge there to escape from Cassander's wrath, incurred by Olympias' scheming against Phillip III and his wife. Cassander besieged the city and managed to capture it during the spring of 316 BC.\n\nThe Battle of Pydna (June 22, 168 BC), in which the Roman general Lucius Aemilius Paullus (subsequently given the nickname of \"Macedonicus\") defeated King Perseus, ended the reign of the Antigonid dynasty over Macedon.\n\nLate in the first millennium of the Christian era Pydna became a bishopric under the name Kitros or Citrus. It is included in the \"Notitia Episcopatuum\" of Leo VI the Wise (866–912). Its bishop Germanus participated in the Photian Council of Constantinople (879). In the aftermath of the Fourth Crusade Citrus became a Latin Church diocese, as witnessed by a letter of Pope Innocent III in 1208, which does not give the name of the bishop of the see. It is now listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996114", "title": "Benjamin F. Stapleton", "text": "Benjamin F. Stapleton\n\nBenjamin Franklin Stapleton (November 12, 1869 – May 23, 1950) was the Mayor of Denver, Colorado, USA, for two periods (comprising five terms), the first from 1923 to 1931 and the second from 1935 to 1947. He also served as a member of the Ku Klux Klan and as the Democratic Colorado State Auditor from 1933 to 1935.\n\nStapleton was born November 12, 1869, in Paintsville, Kentucky, son of Elizabeth Jane Newman (1851-1927) and Samuel Stapleton (1847-1911). He attended National Normal University in Lebanon, Ohio, graduating with a law degree. Early in the 1890s, Stapleton went to live in Denver, and in 1899, he was admitted to the Colorado Bar.\n\nOn June 21, 1917, Stapleton married Mabel Freeland, with whom he had 2 children, Lois Jane and Benjamin, Junior.\n\nStapleton enlisted for service in the Spanish–American War. He served with the First Colorado Regiment, Company 1, Colorado Volunteers Infantry in the Philippine Islands, rising to the rank of first sergeant.\n\nAt the conclusion of his war-time service, Stapleton returned to Denver to practice law and first became actively interested in politics, helping found the Veterans of Foreign Wars.\n\nStapleton later became a high-ranking member of the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nStapleton's political career began in 1904 as police magistrate, where he remained until 1915, when President Woodrow Wilson appointed him postmaster. During his appointment, he oversaw the completion of the Denver Post Office building.\n\nAs chronicled by Robert Alan Goldberg in his book \"Hooded Empire : The Ku Klux Klan in Colorado\", Stapleton was the Klan candidate for mayor of Denver in 1923 and won the election with Klan support. When Stapleton declared his candidacy for mayor in March 1923, he was Klan member number 1,128 and a close friend of the Colorado Klan Grand Dragon, John Galen Locke. Rumors of Stapleton's Klan membership circulated during the mayoral campaign. Stapleton responded by denying that he was a Klan member and condemning the Klan, \"to appease his Jewish and Catholic supporters.\" Stapleton declared, \"True Americanism needs no mask or disguise. Any attempt to stir up racial prejudices or religious intolerance is contrary to our constitution and is therefore un-American.\" The voters believed Stapleton's denial and he was elected, defeating an unpopular incumbent, Dewey Bailey. Stapleton then appointed fellow Klansmen to multiple positions in Denver government, though he initially resisted Klan pressure to appoint a Klansman as chief of police.\n\nAn anti-Stapleton backlash developed due to the Klan's infiltration of Denver government. The anti-Stapleton coalition began the process of petitioning for a recall election. Stapleton knew that to survive the recall he would need Klan support. He capitulated to the Klan demand that he appoint a Klansman as police chief, with the result that the police department became in effect a Klan organization. This galvanized the anti-Stapleton forces and they succeeded in forcing a recall election of Stapleton in August 1924.\n\nAccording to Goldberg's description of the recall election, \"[t]he Klan dominated the Stapleton campaign, contributing more than $15,000 and scores of election workers.\" \"On July 14, 1924, Mayor Stapleton addressed a Klan gathering on South Table Mountain and reaffirmed his commitment: 'I have little to say, except that I will work with the Klan and for the Klan in the coming election, heart and soul. And if I am reelected, I shall give the Klan the kind of administration it wants.'\" The anti-Stapleton coalition had run a poor candidate against Stapleton in the recall election (Dewey Bailey, the incumbent mayor defeated by Stapleton in 1923), and Stapleton won the recall election by a landslide. On the night of the election, Denver Klansmen burned crosses on South Table Mountain to signify their victory.\n\nCracks in the Klan's stranglehold on Denver began appearing early in 1925. Stapleton ordered the Good Friday vice raids on April 10, 1925, bypassing the Klan police chief he had appointed under pressure from KKK leaders. The raid rounded up over 200 bootleggers, prostitutes, and gamblers and exposed a dozen Klan members who had been serving in the police force, who were ultimately dismissed. On June 30, 1925, Colorado Klansmen voted to banish Stapleton, Senator Rice Means, Secretary of State Carl Milliken and six other members of the mayor's city hall faction from the Klan in a statement of loyalty to Grand Dragon Locke, who was under fire from national Klan forces. Locke, however, remained in power, but two weeks later, Stapleton declared his independence from Locke and the Colorado Klan by firing the Klan police chief, Candlish, whom he had appointed earlier in his term to appease them.\n\nIn 1932, Stapleton won election to the post of state auditor. Unsatisfied, Stapleton decided in 1935 to campaign again for election as for mayor, winning in that year and also in 1939 and 1943.\n\nStapleton was responsible for many civic improvements during his five terms as mayor of Denver. Most projects attributed to Stapleton were during his third term as mayor when he had access to funds and manpower from the New Deal. During this time, he saw through the creation of the Denver Civic Center and the Denver Municipal Airport, and the considerable expansion of Denver Mountain Parks system, including the Amphitheatre at Red Rocks Park.\n\nThe construction of Denver Municipal Airport was begun in early 1929 and completed that same year. Its grand opening celebration took place over four days from October 17–20 – a week before the stock market crashed. It was widely viewed at the time as a huge boondoggle. Stapleton was excoriated as either corrupt or incompetent, or both, for having the taxpayers subsidize a mere plaything of the wealthy; what the \"Denver Post\" sneeringly dubbed \"Stapleton's Folly\", and others jokingly called \"Rattlesnake Hollow\". It was viewed by some as too far from civilization to be practicable. The close relationship Stapleton seemed to have with land-owning political backers who stood to benefit, conspicuous among them H. Brown Canon of Windsor Farm Dairy, were a factor in his loss in the 1931 mayoral election to George D. Begole. The airport was later renamed Stapleton International Airport on August 25, 1944 in his honor. Today, the airport no longer exists, replaced by a neighborhood, also named Stapleton, and Stapleton Street, both of which continue to bear his name despite increasing political pressure to rename them due to Stapleton's adherence to white supremacy and controversial membership in the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nIn 1935, Stapleton appointed George Cranmer, a wealthy former stockbroker, as manager of Improvements and Parks. Cranmer had luckily pulled his assets out of the stock market a year before the crash of 1929. The two, as it turned out, had completely different visions for what to do with a particularly striking locale at Red Rocks Park.\n\nSome time before his appointment, while pondering a boulder field that was surmounted by large projecting rocks on either side, the thoughts of George Cranmer drifted to a memory of something he had once seen while on tour in Sicily: an ancient Greek open-air theater with stone seating. He began to envision something similar, yet unique, for this location.\n\nWhereas, however, Cranmer dreamt of clearing a starry-skied stage, Stapleton saw the boulders strewn there as the members of a naturally formed, one-of-a-kind 'rock garden', and wanted them preserved.\n\nUnbeknown to Stapleton, Cranmer was attempting to persuade the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) to quietly go ahead with plans to demolish the rocks with dynamite. He was successful in this, and the rocks were razed. With Stapleton's rock garden removed, the process began of hiring architects to design and oversee the eventual building of the Red Rocks Amphitheatre.\n\nOther projects during Stapleton's tenure as mayor include Denver's water system and the Valley Highway project.\n\nStapleton's career in politics ended when he lost his 1947 mayoral re-election bid to J. Quigg Newton.\n\nStapleton died on May 23, 1950, at his home in Denver. He is the great-grandfather of Walker Stapleton, who was elected Colorado Treasurer in 2010, and the grandfather of Craig Roberts Stapleton, former U.S. ambassador to France and the Czech Republic.\n\nIn early 2018, Stapleton's great-grandson, Walker Stapleton, a candidate for governor of Colorado, was accused of paying off the History Colorado Center to remove mention of the family's ties with the white supremacy movement and the beginnings of the Ku Klux Klan in America from their exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996117", "title": "Thermalisation", "text": "Thermalisation\n\nIn physics, thermalization (in Commonwealth English \"thermalisation\") is the process of physical bodies reaching thermal equilibrium through mutual interaction. In general the natural tendency of a system is towards a state of equipartition of energy and uniform temperature that maximizes the system's entropy. Thermalization, thermal equilibrium, and temperature are therefore important fundamental concepts within statistical physics, statistical mechanics, and thermodynamics; all of which are a basis for many other specific fields of scientific understanding and engineering application.\n\nExamples of thermalization include:\n\nThe hypothesis, foundational to most introductory textbooks treating quantum statistical mechanics, assumes that systems go to thermal equilibrium (thermalization). The process of thermalization erases local memory of the initial conditions. The eigenstate thermalization hypothesis is a hypothesis about when quantum states will undergo thermalization and why.\n\nNot all quantum states undergo thermalization. Some states have been discovered which do not, and their reasons for not reaching thermal equilibrium are unclear .\n\nThe process of equilibration can be described using the H-theorem or the relaxation theorem, see also entropy production.\n\nAn active research area in quantum physics is systems that resist thermalization. Some such systems include:\n\n\n, the mechanism for neither of these phenomena is known.\n"}
{"id": "1996119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996119", "title": "Apollo 100", "text": "Apollo 100\n\nApollo 100 was a short-lived British instrumental studio-based group that had a top 10 hit with the Johann Sebastian Bach-inspired single \"Joy\" in 1972.\n\nThe recording of \"Joy\" as performed by Apollo 100 is a nearly note-for-note remake of the arrangement of \"Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring\" (but with modern pop music flourishes like percussion, electric guitar and bass) recorded by the British band Jigsaw on their 1970 debut album \"Letherslade Farm\".\n\nTom Parker was an accomplished arranger responsible for most of the successful arrangements from the Young Blood catalogue, such as the Top 20 American hit \"Chirpy Chirpy Cheep Cheep\" and a number of Don Fardon's recordings. Parker is a multi-instrumentalist, having played keyboards, clarinet, saxophone, trumpet, trombone, and a number of other instruments from an early age. His first performances were in and around Newcastle upon Tyne, where he performed in a number of jazz clubs. Following this he was associated with a number of groups, including The Mark Leeman 5, Jimmy James and the Vagabonds, and Eric Burdon with the New Animals. He put together the band in 1972, with drummer Clem Cattini, guitarist Vic Flick, guitarist Zed Jenkins, percussionist Jim Lawless, and bassist Brian Odgers. Their first single, \"Joy\", based on Bach's \"Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring\", rose to number 6 on the pop singles chart in the US. None of their subsequent efforts were as successful, and they broke up in 1973.\n\nThe US release of \"Joy\" was handled by the Nashville, Tennessee based independent label Mega Records, who released it there as a 7\" single in November 1971.\n\n\"Joy\" has subsequently been featured in the soundtracks of the films \"Boogie Nights\", \"One Day in September\", \"The 40-Year-Old Virgin\", and \"Battle of the Sexes\".\n\n1. \"Joy\", LP, March 1972, Mega M31-1010 Stereo\n\nA Youngblood Production, Produced by Miki Dallon.\n\n\n2. \"Master Pieces\", LP, April 5, 1973, Mega M51-5005 Stereo\n\nA Youngblood Production, Produced by Miki Dallon.\n\n\n\nThe Australian release had a slightly different line-up.\n\"Master Pieces\", LP, 1972, Young Blood SSYB-17 Stereo\n\n\nReleased by RCA Limited, Sydney, Australia\n\nAlthough \"Popcorn\" is mentioned on the rear cover as included in the album, it does not appear in the song list.\n"}
{"id": "1996121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996121", "title": "List of companies based in Minneapolis–Saint Paul", "text": "List of companies based in Minneapolis–Saint Paul\n\nThe Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area is the 16th-largest urban agglomeration in the United States, and is home to many corporations, companies, and divisions. The core cities of Minneapolis and Saint Paul host many companies, but a majority are in suburban cities.\n\nThe Minneapolis–St. Paul metropolitan area is the country's 13th largest economy based on GDP and has surpassed the Detroit metropolitan area as the Midwest's second largest economy.\n\nAs of 2019, there are 24 Fortune 1000 companies headquartered in the Minneapolis–St. Paul metropolitan area. Six companies made \"Fortune\"s 2013 Global 500 list. There were also five Minneapolis-St. Paul-based companies listed on \"Forbes\" 2012 Largest Private Companies list, including Cargill, the largest privately held corporation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWells Fargo continues to have a major presence in Minneapolis, and the city is home to the Wells Fargo Home Mortgage division. In 1998, Norwest Bank of Minneapolis bought Wells Fargo Bank of San Francisco, California. Because Wells Fargo had more brand recognition, Norwest chose to rename itself Wells Fargo Bank and moved its headquarters from Minneapolis to San Francisco.\n\nHoneywell was headquartered in Minneapolis but moved to Morristown, New Jersey to occupy Allied Signal's headquarters after the two companies merged in 1999. Honeywell's former headquarters is now occupied by Wells Fargo.\n\nThe Soo Line Railroad is based in Minneapolis, but is owned by the Canadian Pacific Railway. The old company headquarters still exist as the Soo Line Building. The current headquarters is Canadian Pacific Plaza.\n\nNorthwestern Consolidated Milling Company produced Ceresota flour in Minneapolis from 1891 to 1953. Its Elevator A, and A and F mills are still standing and two of these structures are in use as office buildings.\n\nReliaStar Life Insurance Co. was bought by ING of the Netherlands but still maintains division headquarters in Minneapolis.\n\nDain Rauscher was bought by RBC of Canada but still maintains division headquarters in Minneapolis.\n\nBurlington Northern was based in St. Paul until it merged with the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway to form the BNSF Railway. It is now based in Fort Worth, Texas.\n\nThe St. Paul Companies was the oldest company in Minnesota. In 2004, they merged with Travelers and in 2009 they moved their headquarters to New York City.\n\nIn 2008, Northwest Airlines announced that it was merging with Delta Air Lines and moving its headquarters to Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nIn December 2010, ADC Telecommunications was purchased by TE Connectivity. By May 2011, they had moved the operations out of the Eden Prairie HQ of ADC to other facilities. TE Connectivity continues to use ADC's Shakopee, MN facility.\n\nDepartment 56, Inc. was headquartered in Eden Prairie, MN. The maker of collectibles and giftware, notably Christmas Village buildings and Snowbabies, filed for bankruptcy in 2009 after purchasing Lenox from Brown & Foreman in 2005. Department 56 was eventually acquired by Enesco and moved all operations except the artistic talent to Enesco's headquarters in Itasca, Illinois.\n\nIn 2001 Pillsbury Company was purchased by General Mills (also located in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area). Parts of Pillsbury were sold to International Multifoods Corporation which was later purchased by The J.M. Smucker Company of Orrville, Ohio, in 2004.\n\nThe Musicland Group, Inc. was an entertainment company which ran Musicland, Sam Goody, Suncoast Motion Picture Company, On Cue, and the Media PlaySuperstore Chains. The Musicland Group was purchased by Best Buy in 2001.\n\nControl Data Corporation was a supercomputer firm which broke up into Control Data Systems and Control Data Corporation (CDC). CDC currently operates as Ceridian.\n\nJasc Software was a software company in Eden Prairie which was founded by the creator of Paint Shop Pro. It was acquired by Corel Corporation in 2004.\n\nPepsiAmericas was merged into Pepsi Beverage Co. in 2009.\n\nLawson Software was an ERP software company based in St. Paul prior to being acquired by Infor.\n\nNash Finch merged with Spartan Stores to become SpartanNash and the headquarters was moved to Grand Rapids, Michigan.\n"}
{"id": "1996129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996129", "title": "AIFL", "text": "AIFL\n\nAIFL may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1996130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996130", "title": "Betsy Jolas", "text": "Betsy Jolas\n\nBetsy Jolas (born 5 August 1926) is a Franco-American composer.\n\nJolas was born in Paris in 1926. Her mother, the American translator Maria McDonald, was a singer. Her father, the poet and journalist Eugene Jolas, founded and edited the magazine \"transition\", which published over ten years most of the great names of the interwar period.\n\nHer family settled in the United States in late 1940. While completing her general studies in New York, then specializing in music at Bennington College, she joined the Dessoff Choirs, thus discovering notably Renaissance music which was to have a lasting influence on her work.\n\nHaving returned to Paris in 1946, Jolas resumed her studies at the Conservatoire National Supérieur de musique, notably with Darius Milhaud and Olivier Messiaen. From 1971 to 1974 she served as Olivier Messiaen's assistant at the Conservatoire and was appointed herself to the faculty in 1975. She has since then also taught in the United States, at Yale, Harvard, Mills College (D. Milhaud chair), the University of California campuses at Berkeley, Los Angeles, and San Diego, and at Tanglewood and the University of Michigan.\n\nJolas is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters (1983) and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1995).\n\nAfter graduating from Bennington College, Jolas returned to Paris in 1946 to continue her studies with Darius Milhaud and Olivier Messiaen at the Conservatoire National Supérieur de Musique of Paris.\n\nHer numerous works (she has been composing steadily since 1945) are written for a great variety of combinations and have been widely performed internationally by artists such as Kent Nagano, Anssi Karttunen, Claude Delangle, William Christie, Håkan Hardenberger, Antoine Tamestit, Nicolas Hodges and Sir Simon Rattle, and leading ensembles and orchestras including: the Ensemble Intercontemporain, the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, the Orchestre de Paris, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and the BBC Symphony Orchestra.\n\nThrough her family background, Jolas was confronted at an early age with words and the singing voice and this may have protected her from some musical excesses of the post-war music world. An early follower of Pierre Boulez's Domaine Musical in the 1960s, she was always more a \"fellow-traveler\" than an unconditional disciple. Her music clearly sounds contemporary, if only for being consistently atonal. Yet, unlike most composers of her generation, Jolas never encouraged a break with the past and her keen knowledge of tradition is often felt to inform her creative drive. She has indeed openly admitted many times her ambition to write expressive and beautiful music when such considerations were deemed outdated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996132", "title": "NewsGuild-CWA", "text": "NewsGuild-CWA\n\nThe NewsGuild-CWA is a labor union founded by newspaper journalists in 1933. In addition to improving wages and working conditions, its constitution says its purpose is to fight for honesty in journalism and the news industry's business practices. The current president is Jon Schleuss.\n\nThe organization's founders were Joseph Cookman an editor of the \"New York Post\", Allen Raymond of the \"New York Herald Tribune\" and Heywood Broun of the \"New York World-Telegram\". Carl Randau was its director from 1934 to 1940. It was originally called the American Newspaper Guild, but it changed its name in the 1970s to reflect the fact that it also operated outside the United States. It had expanded into Canada in the 1950s.\n\nIt became affiliated with the American Federation of Labor in 1936, then left to go into the new Congress of Industrial Organizations in 1937, when it expanded its membership to non-editorial departments. It merged with the Communications Workers of America in 1995. The Guild is also affiliated with the International Federation of Journalists.\n\nThe Guild has more than 32,000 members in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Its membership has expanded from just journalists to many other employees of newspapers and news agencies, such as clerks who take classified ads and computer support workers. It also represents workers in a number of other industries.\n\nIn 2015, the union changed its name from Newspaper Guild to its current name, NewsGuild, to reflect that newspapers aren't the only publishers of news.\n\nThe Newspaper Guild, represented by many journalists and other written media workers since 1933, became one of the most continuous and effective media organizations in the United States. Heywood Broun was one of the most respected journalist and most popular, highly paid contributor. On August 7, 1933, Broun acknowledged the \"New York World-Telegram\" column and the progress of the newspaper’s business which was successful. He evaluated the progress more closely with his bosses than any other colleague of similar economic standing. Broun wrote, “the fact that newspaper editors and owners are genial folk should hardly stand in the way of organization of a newspaper writers’ union. There should be [always] one.” His column has influenced journalists from many states to rise up in opposition to the newspaper’s authorities and organize by publishers to show the importance of the newspaper union and expanding the foundation.\n\nHeywood launched the Guild during the Depression according to the biography which Richard O’Connor said, “newspapermen to take a more practical view of their working conditions and organize against the rapacity of publishers.” During the earlier times of the Guild, there were complaints from the “rapacious” publishers about federal regulation of minimum wages and maximum hours for newsroom workers set by the National Recovery Act. The publishers wanted an amount of money to not pay tax on from the NRA on constitutional grounds and their First Amendment rights would be prohibited if the workers were forced to restrictive management under the government as the forty-hour work week. This rallied around from Broun’s call for labor union and one would speak for all newsmen and newswomen.\n\nIn 1942 Henning Heldt, as a Nieman Fellow, contributed an article on the Newpaper Guild to a collection published by Nieman Fellows that year at Harvard University.\n\nIn 1934 a convention of the Guild was held in St. Paul, Minnesota. In an effort to elevate the standards of journalism, it was\nHeldt described the radical past, arrival, and conservative turn of the Guild in 1942:\n\nPositing a \"legend of newsmen\", Heldt lamented that the Guild finished off the legend:\n\nIn 1970s, the union expanded its scope outside of the United States. and adopted the name of Newspaper Guild or TNG. It also collaborated with another union called the Communications Workers of America (CWA) in 1977. The combined union had hundreds of thousands of workers in telecommunications and media, and later adopted a new name, The Newspaper Guild-CWA.\n\n\nThe Walter P. Reuther Library is the official repository of The Newspaper Guild Official Archives. Walter P. Reuther Library, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996135", "title": "Colón Department", "text": "Colón Department\n\nColón Department may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996142", "title": "Linda Foley", "text": "Linda Foley\n\nLinda Foley was president of the Newspaper Guild and vice-president of the Communications Workers of America from 1995 through 2008.\n\nShe was a reporter for the Lexington Herald-Leader in Lexington, Kentucky before turning to full-time work at the \"Guild\" in 1984. She was elected its secretary-treasurer in 1993 and its president in 1995. She received a Bachelor of Science degree in journalism from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, in 1977.\n\nIn May 2008, Foley was defeated for re-election by Newspaper Guild Secretary-Treasurer Bernie Lunzer. \n\nMs. Foley drew criticism after May 13, 2005 for stating that the U.S. military is responsible for journalists being targeted – \"\"not just being targeted verbally or, politically. They are also being targeted for real, in places like Iraq. What outrages me as a representative of journalists is that there's not more outrage about the number, and the brutality and the cavalier nature of the US military toward the killing of journalists in Iraq. I think it's just a scandal. They target and kill journalists from other countries, particularly Arab countries like Al Jazeera, for example. They actually target them and blow up their studios with impunity.\"\" \n\nOn May 19, 2005, in an article appearing in the newspaper industry trade publication Editor and Publisher, Foley is said to have claimed that her words were taken out of context, that her intent was to discuss the scapegoating of journalists. \"\"This was almost an aside,\"\" she said. \"\"But it is true that hundreds of journalists are killed around the world, and many have been killed in Iraq.\"\" \n\nIn August 2005 trade publication Columbia Journalism Review stated in an editorial: \"Target and kill? Foley has been under attack since she said those words. And should be. Even the infamous killing of journalists by tank fire at the Palestine Hotel in Baghdad was found not to have been deliberate, in an extensive investigation by Reporters Without Borders. Some facts: according to The Committee to Protect Journalists, at least 36 journalists have been killed in action in Iraq since March 2003, along with 18 media support workers; insurgent actions account for 34 of those 54 deaths; U.S. military fire accounts for at least 11. The committee says the record shows that \"the military seems indifferent and unwilling . . . to take steps to mitigate risk.\" But target and kill? The committee finds \"no evidence to conclude that the U.S. military has deliberately targeted the press in Iraq. So on that subject here's what Foley should have said: nothing.\"\nIn fact, the International Federation of Journalists has long argued that the events of April 8, 2003 when a US tank attacked the Palestine Hotel in Baghdad, killing two journalists, were in fact part of a targeting process. This incident was not properly investigated by any group, largely because of the refusal of the US authorities to co-operate with investigators, including judicial authorities in Spain, for instance, who said there was prima facie evidence that required questioning of US troops involved.\n\nMore light was cast upon this murky affair in 2008 when a US army veteran spoke to Amy Goodman of Democracy Now!.org and revealed that, in fact, the Palestine Hotel had been a target, at least for the purpose of communications interception by Army Intelligence and the NSA.\nAdrienne Kinne is a former army sergeant who worked in military intelligence for 10 years, from 1994 to 2004. Trained in Arabic, she worked in the army translating intercepted communications. She told Goodman in an interview that she saw a signals intelligence interception target list that included the Palestine Hotel. She knew that it housed journalists, since she had intercepted calls from the Palestine Hotel between journalists there and their families and friends back home (illegally and unconstitutionally, she thought).\n\nSaid Kinne: \"[W]e were listening to journalists who were staying in the Palestine Hotel. And I remember that, specifically because during the buildup to ‘shock and awe’ ... we were given a list of potential targets in Baghdad, and the Palestine Hotel was listed. [P]utting one and one together, I went to my officer in charge, and I told him that there are journalists staying at this hotel who think they're safe, and yet we have this hotel listed as a potential target, and somehow the dots are not being connected here, and shouldn't we make an effort to make sure that the right people know the situation? And unfortunately, my officer in charge ... basically told me that it was not my job to analyze ... someone somewhere higher up the chain knew what they were doing.\" (See Democracy Now! May 15th 2008 \"Whistle-Blower Points to Target List in U.S. Attack on Hotel\")\n\nShe said the officer in charge was Warrant Officer John Berry.\n\nIn contrast with the opinion on the Columbia Journalism Review Linda Foley had good reason to speak out says Aidan White General Secretary of the International Federation of Journalists. Some 19 journalists died at the hands of US and allied troops in the Iraq conflict, says the IFJ, and no proper, independent and exhaustive investigations have taken place.\n"}
{"id": "1996152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996152", "title": "Oliver's Army", "text": "Oliver's Army\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" is a song written by Elvis Costello and performed by Elvis Costello and the Attractions, from the former's third studio album \"Armed Forces\" (1979). The song is a new wave track that was lyrically inspired by the Troubles in Northern Ireland and includes lyrics critical of the socioeconomic components of war. Costello had travelled to Northern Ireland and was influenced by sights of British soldiers patrolling Belfast. Musically, the song features a glossy production and a keyboard performance inspired by ABBA, creating a juxtaposition between the lyrics and music that both critics and Costello himself have pointed out.\n\nReleased as the first single from \"Armed Forces\", \"Oliver's Army\" was Costello's most successful single in the United Kingdom, spending three weeks at number two on the UK Singles Chart and remaining on the chart for 12 weeks. The song also charted in New Zealand, the Netherlands, Ireland and Australia, and spawned a successful follow-up single, \"Accidents Will Happen\", that reached the top 30 in the UK.\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" has since been recognized by writers as one of the highlights of \"Armed Forces\" and has received critical acclaim for its melody, production, and lyrics. The song has appeared on numerous rankings of Costello's greatest songs, as well as on multiple compilation albums. It has been covered by multiple artists, including Blur and Frank Skinner.\n\nCostello wrote \"Oliver's Army\" as a comment on the Troubles in Northern Ireland during the 1970s. He was inspired to write the song after seeing British officers patrolling the streets of Belfast during a trip he took. He stated, \"I made my first trip to Belfast in 1978 and saw mere boys walking around in battle dress with automatic weapons. They were no longer just on the evening news. These snapshot experiences exploded into visions of mercenaries and imperial armies around the world. The song was based on the premise 'they always get a working class boy to do the killing'\". Costello's family had roots in the Northern Ireland conflict; as his father, Ross McManus, recalled, Oliver's Army' is an important track for me ... My grandfather was an Ulster Catholic, and as a child, I lived in an area where bigotry was rife\". Costello's Irish grandfather, Pat McManus, had served as a British soldier during World War I and the Easter Rising.\n\nAccording to \"Sound on Sound\", the title \"Oliver\" refers to English Parliamentarian leader Oliver Cromwell (1599-1658). In addition to the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the song references other \"imperialist\" conflicts in Hong Kong, Palestine and South Africa. However, Costello later explained that the song was not intended to be a comprehensive political piece; he said, \"It wasn't supposed to read like a coherent political argument. It was pop music\". He also pointed out that the opening lyrics \"argued the absurdity of even trying to write about such a complex subject\".\n\nThe song lyrics contain the phrase \"white nigger\", a racial slur which usually remains uncensored on radio stations. The usage of the phrase came under scrutiny, particularly after Costello used racial slurs during a drunken argument with Stephen Stills and Bonnie Bramlett in 1979. That same year, Costello's father published a letter in \"Rolling Stone\" defending his son against accusations of racism, saying, \"Nothing could be further from the truth. My own background has meant that I am passionately opposed to any form of prejudice based on religion or race. ... His mother comes from the tough multiracial area of Liverpool, and I think she would still beat the tar out of him if his orthodoxy were in doubt\". In March 2013, the radio station BBC Radio 6 Music played the song with the phrase removed, despite BBC radio stations having played the song uncensored for over 30 years. This decision attracted public criticism, given the intended anti-racist and anti-war theme of the single.\n\nDubbed \"a 45 that radio could hardly refuse\" by AllMusic's Mark Deming, \"Oliver's Army\" is a new wave song with a radio-friendly arrangement that has been described as \"glossy\". Deming noted the \"pop-friendly production\" and Costello's \"almost jubilant-sounding vocal [distinct] from the traditionally dour (or threatening) Costello, who even embellished himself with some tight vocal harmony overdubs\". The song was noted for keyboardist Steve Nieve's \"buoyant\" piano part, which was inspired by ABBA's 1976 hit single \"Dancing Queen\". Nieve has explicitly acknowledged the influence.\n\nMany critics have made note of the juxtaposition between the song's music and lyrics; Jim Beviglia of \"American Songwriter\" said that Oliver's Army' heap[s] bucketfuls of the sweet stuff all over the instrumental arrangement to make sure his acerbic lyrics would get the audience they deserved\", while Deming described the song as one of Costello's \"most pungently political set of songs up to that time, but wrapped them in catchy melodies ... that gave Elvis the Menace a real chance at cracking the singles charts in America\". Janet Maslin of \"Rolling Stone\" summed up the song's multiple dimensions, saying, \"You can hear it one way, or the other way, or both. Elvis Costello doesn't seem to give a damn what you do, and that’s no small part of his charm\". Costello later commented on this, saying, \"I don't think [the song's] success was because of the lyrics. I always liked the idea of a bright pop tune that you could be singing along to for ages before you realize what it is you're actually singing. Of course, the downside of that is some people only hear the tune and never listen to the words. After a while, I got frustrated at that\".\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" features the famous '50s progression, which is defined by an I–vi–IV–V progression common in doo-wop. The song also makes use of frequent key changes, beginning in A during the verses, changing briefly to C#7 at the end of the verse, and then changing to E in the pre-chorus before coming back to A in the chorus.\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" was first performed at the 1978 Roskilde Festival. At the time, the song was not seen as a potential hit. Bassist Bruce Thomas later said, \"I wasn't particularly aware that that was going to be our anthemic song. ... It's hard to tell\". Costello expected that the song would be used as a B-side. According to Costello, he was \"about to scrap\" the track until producer Nick Lowe convinced him to finish recording the song. However, the song was completed to be released on Costello's third album, \"Armed Forces\" (1979).\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" was released as the debut single from \"Armed Forces\" on 2 February 1979, backed with Costello's rendition of the 1937 show-tune \"My Funny Valentine\". The single was a commercial hit in the UK, reaching number two over a chart stay of 12 weeks. It was kept from the top position by \"Tragedy\" by the Bee Gees and \"I Will Survive\" by Gloria Gaynor. The single remains Costello's most successful UK single release, as he never reached number one in the UK. \"Oliver's Army\" was also a hit in other countries, reaching number four in Ireland, number 24 in Australia, and number 25 in New Zealand; however, the song failed to chart in the United States, despite radio airplay and the success of \"Armed Forces\" in the US. The follow-up single \"Accidents Will Happen\" also saw commercial success, charting at number 28 in the United Kingdom.\n\nA music video directed by Chuck Slatter for \"Oliver's Army\" was released in order to accompany the song. Filmed in Hawaii while Costello and the Attractions were on tour, the video was shot at 4 AM in a strip club after the band could not find another location. It aired on MTV's first US broadcast day on .\n\nAs a result of the huge success of the single, Costello felt insecure about the relationship he had with his audience, particularly those who only recognized \"Oliver's Army\". As he later explained, \"I saw people responding without any kind of understanding or consideration. We'd play a set where we'd play brilliantly all night and then we'd do our hit single and people would go crazy. Yet they would be bewildered by the rest of what we were doing\".\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" has since been released on multiple compilation albums, including \"The Best of Elvis Costello and the Attractions\", \"Girls Girls Girls\", and \"The Very Best of Elvis Costello\".\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" has attracted positive reviews from music critics. In 1979, Geoffrey Himes of \"The Washington Post\" praised the \"compressed drama\" of \"Oliver's Army\", along with all the other tracks on \"Armed Forces\", and highlighted the song's lyrics, despite calling it \"almost a direct steal from Spector's hit with the Ronettes, 'Baby, I Love You'\". Maslin called the track the \"pièce de résistance\" of \"Armed Forces\" and praised the contrast between the song's music and lyrics. Douglas Wolk of \"Blender Magazine\" named the song as one of the key tracks from \"Armed Forces\" to download, while Matt LeMay of Pitchfork Media called the song \"stunning\". Author Graeme Thomson called the track the \"pinnacle of Elvis' ability to be all things to all people\" and praised the way Costello \"melded serious lyrics to insanely catchy pop\".\n\nThe song has since been rated in numerous rankings as one of Costello's best songs. \"The Daily Telegraph\"s Martin Chilton ranked the song number one on his top 40 list of best Costello songs, calling it a \"catchy tune with powerful lyrics\". Jeremy Allen of \"The Guardian\" named the song one of the ten best Elvis Costello songs, describing the song as \"so smart and subversive that many were unaware it was a protest song at all\" and comparing it positively against his 1989 writing partner Paul McCartney's Irish protest song \"Give Ireland Back to the Irish\". Ryan J. Prado of \"Paste\" ranked the song Costello's ninth best and said that \"the song is great no matter how thinly you spread its political agendas\". Beviglia named the song Costello's 12th best, while Brian Hyatt of \"Entertainment Weekly\" named it one of his top 10 Costello songs. \"The Redditch Standard\" named it Costello's top song.\n\nThroughout Costello's career, \"Oliver's Army\" has remained a mainstay of his live setlist; Thomson described the song as an \"old crowd pleaser\". Shortly after its release, Costello and the Attractions performed the song on television programs for promotion. In a piece for \"The Guardian\", Costello mocked his dress from a performance of the song on \"the Kenny Everett Video Show\", recalling, \"During my 'Pop Star Period: 1978-79' I was a fashion disaster of checkerboard eyestrain. I wore powder-blue and pink suits, turquoise lamé jackets and pointy red leather Chelsea boots, but I usually appeared pretty glassy-eyed and shiny under the hot studio lights. No wonder the girls all swooned\". Referencing his performance of \"Oliver's Army\" on \"Top of the Pops\", Costello sardonically wrote, \"Checkerboard jacket alert...\"\n\nCostello performed \"Oliver's Army\", along with other political songs, as part of a 9 March 1984 protest concert against Margaret Thatcher during the 1984-85 mining strike. \"Oliver's Army\" was also performed at the 2013 Glastonbury Festival.\n\n\nPersonnel per \"Armed Forces\" liner notes.\n\nBritpop band Blur recorded a version of the song for \"Peace Together\", a compilation album released in 1993 to promote peace in Northern Ireland. OK Go released a cover on their 2014 rarity album \"The Compleat 12 Months of (Rare, Unreleased) OK Go\", while Cannon and Ball released a version on their 1980 album \"Rock On Tommy\". Comedian Frank Skinner performed the song when he impersonated Costello on a celebrity edition of \"Stars in Their Eyes\" in 1999, the mention of \"nigger\" replaced with \"figure\". Belle and Sebastian performed a live version of the song at a 2005 concert in Perth.\n\n\"Oliver's Army\" has also been performed by the original version's producer Nick Lowe, who sang the song at an event at the Great American Music Hall in 2010. The performance was part of an event titled \"Costello Sings Lowe, Nick Sings Elvis – A Rare Bashing of Each Other's Songs\", where Lowe and Costello performed each other's songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996153", "title": "Tayfun Cora", "text": "Tayfun Cora\n\nTayfun Cora (born 5 December 1983 in Vakfıkebir) is a retired Turkish footballer.\n\nTayfun plays for Trabzonspor, where he promoted from youth team. He made the step up to the first team in his teenage years, and is also a regular in the Turkish under-21 team. Although he was not established in the Trabzonspor team, he still made regular appearances. He is usually used as a central defender or a right back. He was loaned to Kayserispor for a year and he is back with the Trabzonspor.\n"}
{"id": "1996155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996155", "title": "1997 in country music", "text": "1997 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1997.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on September 22, 1997)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996156", "title": "Mount Ellen (Vermont)", "text": "Mount Ellen (Vermont)\n\nMount Ellen is a mountain in the Green Mountains in the U.S. state of Vermont. Located at the northern edge of the Green Mountain National Forest in Washington County, the summit of Mount Ellen is in the northwest corner of Warren but the mountain extends into Fayston to the north and Lincoln to the west. Together with Lincoln Peak to the south, the slopes of Mount Ellen are home to the Sugarbush Resort.\n\nMount Ellen is one of a handful of peaks in Vermont. At , it is tied (with Camel's Hump) for the third-highest mountain in the state. \n\nThe origin of the mountain's name is unclear. One theory is that Joseph Battell, a publisher, environmentalist, and philanthropist from Middlebury, Vermont, named Mount Ellen after the fictional character in his book \"Ellen, or the Whisperings of an Old Pine\" published in 1903. Another theory is that the mountain was named for Ellen Douglas, the heroine in Sir Walter Scott's poem \"The Lady of the Lake\" published in 1810.\n\nMount Ellen stands within the watershed of Lake Champlain, which drains into the Richelieu River in Québec, the Saint Lawrence River, and then eventually into the Gulf of Saint Lawrence. On the east side of the ridge, Mount Ellen drains into Mill Brook, thence into the Mad River, the Winooski River, and into Lake Champlain. On the west side of the ridge, Mount Ellen drains into the New Haven River, thence into Otter Creek, and into Lake Champlain.\n\nThe Long Trail traverses the summit of Mount Ellen midway between Lincoln Gap and Appalachian Gap. The closest side trail is the Jerusalem Trail, whose trailhead is in Starksboro, Vermont. The trail terminates at the Long Trail after . From the intersection, Mount Ellen is south on the Long Trail while Glen Ellen Shelter is to the east and Stark's Nest is to the north.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996157", "title": "Juvayni", "text": "Juvayni\n\nJuvayni (), also spelled in English as Juwayni, Juvaini, or Joveini, is a Persian last name, meaning from the city of Juvayn in Khorasan, Iran. In the historical context, it may refer to these persons:\n\n"}
{"id": "1996160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996160", "title": "Bjarne Goldbæk", "text": "Bjarne Goldbæk\n\nBjarne Goldbæk (born 6 October 1968) is a Danish former professional footballer and current sports pundit for Eurosport. He played for a number of foreign clubs, including Chelsea and Fulham in England and several clubs in Germany. He most prominently won the 1990 German Cup tournament and 1990–91 Bundesliga championship with 1. FC Kaiserslautern. For the Denmark national football team, Goldbæk was capped 28 times, and he was a part of the Danish squads for the 1998 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 2000 tournaments.\n\nHe currently works as a football agent, and as an occasional football commentator on Eurosport during Bundesliga matches.\n\nBorn in Copenhagen, Goldbæk started his career with Danish club B 1901, before he was snapped up by the top-flight Danish 1st Division club Næstved IF in 1987. He quickly moved abroad to play for Schalke 04 of the Bundesliga in September that year. In December 1989, Goldbæk changed clubs to Bundesliga rivals 1. FC Kaiserslautern, where he won the German Bundesliga championship in the 1990–91 season. He further played for Tennis Borussia Berlin and 1. FC Köln in Germany, before returning to Denmark to play for F.C. Copenhagen in 1996.\n\nAt F.C. Copenhagen, he quickly became a mainstay in the team, and he was awarded the 1998 \"F.C. Copenhagen Player of the Year\" award. Following good displays and a goal scored in two UEFA Cup Winners' Cup matches against Chelsea,<ref name=\"Season 1998/99\"></ref> he joined them in November 1998 for a fee of £330,000, in a deal that sent fellow Dane Brian Laudrup from Chelsea to Copenhagen. Goldbæk originally made a big impression when he moved to Stamford Bridge, but was not in favour with Chelsea's manager Gianluca Vialli, who tried to off-load him to Birmingham City and Nottingham Forest. He struggled to hold down a regular rotation place at Chelsea, before Fulham snatched him from Chelsea in January 2000, at the cost of £650,000. He made his Fulham debut in January 2000, a 1–0 home defeat at the hands of Grimsby Town. However, he soon became an important player, as Fulham won the English First Division crown in the 2000–01 season. As Fulham manager Jean Tigana's team strengthened, it appeared Goldbæk's future was becoming bleak at the club. He made just 17 appearances in the 2001–02 season. However, he started the next campaign in the picture, as he came on as a substitute in the Intertoto Cup game against FC Haka from Finland in early July 2002. As a result, Goldbæk would sign a one-year contract extension.\n\nHe left Fulham to play for Regionalliga club Rot-Weiss Essen in 2003. Goldbæk justified his move by stating that he had moved with his family into a house located in the nearby town of Gladbeck, and the support Rot-Weiss Essen commanded by regularly having 10.000 spectators at their home games . He was the team captain when the club earned promotion to the 2. Bundesliga in 2004, but as Rot-Weiss Essen were relegated to the Regionalliga again the following year, Goldbæk retired his active career in summer 2005.\n\nGoldbæk made his debut for Denmark on 18 November 1987, in a 1988 Olympic Games qualifier against the West Germany Olympic national team, which ended in a 1–0 defeat.\n\nGoldbæk works as a licensed consultant for players and coaches.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996161", "title": "1996 in country music", "text": "1996 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on September 30, 1996)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996162", "title": "Old Wan Chai Post Office", "text": "Old Wan Chai Post Office\n\nThe Old Wan Chai Post Office is the oldest surviving post office building in Hong Kong. It is situated at No. 221 Queen's Road East, at the junction with Wan Chai Gap Road.\n\nThe building was erected between 1912 and 1913, and opened on 1 March 1915 as the Wan Chai Post Office. It is not known whether the building was originally built and designed for such purpose. The post office ceased to operate in 1992, after having served the Wan Chai community continuously for 77 years.\n\nThe Old Wan Chai Post Office is an L-shaped building. It is a simple pitched-roof structure with attractive gable ends and mouldings.\n\nThe building is now operated by the Environmental Protection Department as an Environmental Resource Centre.\n\nThe Old Wan Chai Post Office became a declared monument on 18 May 1990. It is the only building declared as a monument in the Wan Chai area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996164", "title": "1995 in country music", "text": "1995 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on October 20, 1995)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996171", "title": "1994 in country music", "text": "1994 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1994.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on March 30, 1994)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996173", "title": "1993 in country music", "text": "1993 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1993.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on April 14, 1993)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996175", "title": "1992 in country music", "text": "1992 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1992.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on March 6, 1992)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996177", "title": "William Boyd, 4th Earl of Kilmarnock", "text": "William Boyd, 4th Earl of Kilmarnock\n\nWilliam Boyd, 4th Earl of Kilmarnock (12 May 170518 August 1746), was a Scottish peer who joined the 1745 Jacobite Rising, was captured at Culloden and subsequently executed for treason on Tower Hill.\n\nHis family were supporters of the government and Kilmarnock had not previously been involved with the Stuarts; he later stated that \"for the two Kings and their rights, I cared not a farthing which prevailed; but I was starving.\" His title was declared forfeit; his heavily mortgaged estates were confiscated but later returned to his eldest son James, later Earl of Erroll, who fought at Culloden on the government side.\n\nWilliam Boyd was born in 1705, only son of William Boyd, 3rd Earl of Kilmarnock (1683–1717) and Eupheme Ross (1684–1729). His father supported the government during the 1715 Jacobite Rising but was deeply in debt when he died in 1717. Kilmarnock soon made this considerably worse.\n\nIn 1724, he married Lady Anne Livingston, only daughter of James Livingston, 5th Earl of Linlithgow, a Jacobite attainted for his role in the 1715 Rising. Her family allegedly opposed the marriage and Kilmarnock's debts meant they depended upon her credit to pay living expenses.\n\nThey lived at Dean Castle but when it was destroyed by fire in 1735, they could not afford the repairs and moved to Anne's home, Callendar House, which remained in the family until 1783. Dean Castle was sold by his son James in 1746; while the outbuildings remained in use, the castle stood derelict until restored in the early 20th century.\n\nKilmarnock was educated at the University of Glasgow but he had \"an Aversion to rigorous Study of Letters\" and was devoted to \"Riding, Fencing, Dancing and Musick...esteemed by Men of Taste, a Polite gentleman.\"\n\nAnne Livingstone was considered an heiress, despite the loss of her family estates in 1715. The government Commission of Forfeited Estates found selling Jacobite property so complex and time-consuming that it was easier to come to an arrangement with the original owners. Many were purchased through an 18th-century vulture fund called the York Buildings Company, which did a deal with Anne, who became financially secure as a result. She married Kilmarnock against her family's wishes; money and his lifestyle were constant issues and they lived together \"civilly, if not happily.\"\n\nKilmarnock's peerage gave him a seat in the House of Lords, where he voted as directed by Archibald Campbell, 3rd Duke of Argyll and Robert Walpole; he was paid a small pension for this, which ceased when Walpole lost power in 1742. He was Grand Master for the Masonic Grand Lodge of Scotland from 1742 to 1743, his successor being the Earl of Wemyss, whose son Lord Elcho also served in the Jacobite army; Murray of Broughton, later Secretary to Prince Charles, was another member.\n\nHe first met Prince Charles during the 1745 Rebellion at Callendar House on 14 September. The decision to join the Jacobite army surprised many; it has been suggested one reason for doing so was pressure from his wife's family but he later told Argyll; \"...I was starving, and...if Mahommed had set up his standard...I had been a good Mussulman for bread, for I must eat.\"\n\nOn 18 October, he received a commission in \"Kilmarnock's Horse,\" which seems to have been composed largely of individual volunteers. One of the few Lowland peers to join the Rising, he quickly gained a prominent position with Charles, largely because he was unconnected to the group of long-term Jacobite Scots centred around Lord George Murray. Even before the invasion of England, there were deep divisions between Charles and his exile advisors on the one hand and the Scots on the other; after the retreat from Derby, the two groups viewed each other with suspicion and hostility. O'Sullivan later wrote \"no man showed more respect for HRH (Charles)...\", making Kilmarnock one of the few Scots who could be counted on to support Charles against his fellows.\n\nWhen the main army entered England on 8 November, Viscount Strathallan remained in Perth; the Strathallan or Perthshire Horse was added to Kilmarnock's, a combined strength of about 130 men in all. They were chiefly engaged in reconnaissance duties and were the last to leave Carlisle on 21 December, before re-entering Scotland. In early January, the Jacobites besieged Stirling Castle; an attempt to relieve it by the government commander Henry Hawley led to the Battle of Falkirk on 17 January.\n\nThe battle was fought near Callendar House, where Lady Anne was hosting Hawley, who used it as his headquarters; this took place in failing light, during a fierce storm and amid considerable confusion. Although the cavalry was not involved, Kilmarnock's local knowledge was employed afterwards in locating the retreating government forces; on his return, he attacked a Cameron deserter from the government army, who was still in uniform and had to be rescued from his fellow clansmen. \n\nFalkirk was a Jacobite tactical victory but poor command and co-ordination deprived them of the last opportunity to decisively defeat their opponents. Many of the Highlanders who took part went home and when Cumberland resumed his advance on 30 January, Charles was told the army was in no state to fight. On 1 February 1746, the siege of Stirling was abandoned and the Jacobites withdrew to Inverness.\n\nKilmarnock's troop helped covered the retreat; at the end of this, their horses were in such poor condition that they were converted into infantry and retitled Foot Guards. The next two months were spent in Elgin, as part of Drummond's force guarding the line of the River Spey; the Jacobites were short of money and forced to requisition supplies from local merchants. \n\nWhen the campaigning season began in April, their leaders agreed the only option was a decisive victory; this led to Culloden, where they were defeated with heavy losses in less than an hour. James Boyd was in the government front line with the Royal Scots but Kilmarnock was with the Jacobite reserve and saw little action. The claim he was captured after mistaking government dragoons for his own troops is not supported by his own account; another anecdote recounts he lost his hat and wig and James gave him his own.\n\nTried in London on 29 July, Kilmarnock, Lord Balmerino and the Earl of Cromartie were found guilty of treason and sentenced to death. This was commuted to beheading, rather than being hanged, drawn and quartered, as with Francis Towneley and others. It was expected one would be pardoned, but despite efforts by Kilmarnock's fellow Freemason, the Duke of Hamilton, this went to Cromartie, whose allegedly pregnant wife interceded with the Princess of Wales. Cromartie's father-in-law had been Private Secretary to the Prince of Wales and the writer Horace Walpole (1717-1792) later observed \"Hamilton's intercession for Lord Kilmarnock hurried him to the block.\"\n\nThe sentences were carried out on Tower Hill on 18 August, Kilmarnock going first; shortly before, Balmerino contrived a meeting with him to discuss the \"No quarter\" order. Allegedly issued by the Jacobite leadership before Culloden and used to justify the harsh government response, its existence is extremely dubious. However, Balmerino ensured Kilmarnock confirmed before witnesses that if such an order did exist, the blame lay with Lord George Murray, not the Prince, a version later published in the official trial records. Even on the verge of death, the internal divisions that had undermined the Jacobite cause continued.\n\nKilmarnock complied with the convention that prisoners facing death express contrition and acceptance of the justice of their sentence. He confirmed George II was the \"true and legitimate sovereign\", wrote letters to his sons and wife and asked for help in settling his debts. Following his execution, he was buried in St Peter ad Vincula, the church attached to the Tower of London.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996178", "title": "Vlado Gotovac", "text": "Vlado Gotovac\n\nVladimir \"Vlado\" Gotovac (18 September 1930 – 7 December 2000) was a Croatian poet and politician.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Gotovac joined the Croatian movement demanding political and economic reform, which eventually led to the Croatian Spring in the early 1970s. Unlike the Prague Spring in Czechoslovakia, the Croatian Spring wasn't violently quashed by military use, although it resulted the period known as \"the Croatian silence\", alluding to the Yugoslav government’s tremendous skill in suppressing any opposition or criticism.\n\nBefore being arrested in 1971 Gotovac became the editor-in-chief of \"Hrvatski Tjednik\" (\"The Croatian Weekly\"), which historian Marcus Tanner explains, \"was a real phenomenon – a mass-circulation newspaper with an enormous audience that went way beyond the confines of the Communist Party and made a national reputation.\"\n\nGrowing up in Tito's Yugoslavia, Gotovac was arrested in 1971 and sentenced to four years in prison, based on charges of being a \"separatist\" and \"nationalist\". In an interview with Swedish television in 1978 he reflected rather dejectedly about his experience:\"No basis was found in my actions or in my activities, but, rather, like in all such processes, criminal actions were assumed and corroborated, not only in my case, but in the cases of a whole group of others whom I know.\"\n\nGotovac continued to write in prison, with his most famous piece being his diary, \"Zvjezdana Kuga\" (\"Starry Plague\"), published some twenty years after his release in 1978. And whilst he spent his pre-prison years working as a journalist and editor for TV Zagreb as well as writing literary pieces, he gradually moved into politics after being released from prison.\n\nIn an interview for a Swedish television channel in 1978 he was asked to elaborate upon his own philosophical beliefs, and he said:\n\nHis experience in Croatia, dominated by communism, did not manage to pervert or shatter his own view of socialism; rather he felt that the sort of socialism he believed in had nothing whatsoever to do with communism, an ideology that he viewed as nothing more than centralist totalitarianism, of which its followers, he said, \"are incapable of thinking freely. They do not know what freedom is!\" In 1989, Gotovac joined the newly formed Croatian Social Liberal Party. Due to his passionate eloquence he became one of its most prominent members. As such, he worked very hard to find proper balance between Croatian nationalism and liberalism. In 1991 in the Sabor during a protest rally held in front of Yugoslav People's Army headquarters. He made passionate and defiant speech answering the generals who at the time made all kinds of threats against Croatia.\n\nIn the period 1990-1996. he served as the president of Matica hrvatska.\n\nGotovac entered the Sabor in 1992 where his passion and eloquence made him into one of the most popular and charismatic Croatian politicians. His harsh criticism of Franjo Tuđman and his authoritarian policies made him into one of the rallying figure of Croatian opposition.\n\nIn mid-1990s Gotovac replaced Dražen Budiša at the leadership of Croatian Social Liberal Party (\"HSLS\"). His tenure was brief but it also revealed his lack of political talent. During the Zagreb Crisis he allowed himself to be manipulated into embarrassing negotiations with the Croatian Democratic Union, which harmed the reputation of party and its unity.\n\nIn 1996 he was chosen as president of the HSLS, where he told his audience: \"Do not fear, this is our country and we have the right to rule it as we like!\" In that same year he ran as a presidential candidate, but was assaulted during the campaign. He did not win the presidency instead it was claimed by Franjo Tuđman, a fellow former dissident. But Tuđman’s victory was disputed by Gotovac, who accused him of manipulating the results. As president, Tuđman did not undertake the sort of reforms hoped for by Gotovac and others, rather he became autocratic, suppressing the media if it dared to criticize him or his system, as well as limiting the civil and political rights of Croatian citizens. The following year Gotovac split from the HSLS to form the Liberal Party. Gotovac participated in a region wide movement of writers becoming politicians, for this occurrence took place in Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, with Václav Havel being one of the most famous writers turned statesman.\n\nGotovac tried running as a candidate of Croatian centrist and liberal opposition on 1997 presidential election. During the campaign rally in Pula he was assaulted and injured by a Croatian Army officer Tomislav Brzović who was under influence of alcohol and was shouting \"Long live Ante Pavelić. I am Ustaša, I will kill you all\", upon being arrested. Later it was revealed that Brzović was member of elite security unit guarding president Franjo Tuđman. The incident didn't have much impact on the campaign. This led to the formal split in HSLS. Dražen Budiša, advocating more populist rhetoric and future coalition with HDZ, regained the party leadership. Gotovac, who advocated HSLS remaining true to liberal principles, left HSLS and formed new Liberal Party. This party failed to attract majority of HSLS membership and its voters.\n\nIronically, Budiša, instead of aligning with HDZ, made a coalition with SDP instead in 1998. LS was left out of it and LS entered Sabor in 2000 only by joining the bloc of centrist parties led by the Croatian Peasant Party.\n\nOn 7 December 2000 Gotovac died in Rome, aged 70, from complications caused by hepatitis, too weak to receive a liver transplant.\n"}
{"id": "1996179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996179", "title": "1991 in country music", "text": "1991 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1991.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on March 25, 1991)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996181", "title": "1990 in country music", "text": "1990 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1990.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on March 26, 1990)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996184", "title": "1999 in country music", "text": "1999 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 1999.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on October 12, 1999)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:1999 in music|Country]]\n[[Category:Country music by year]]"}
{"id": "1996188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996188", "title": "Pavillon de Breteuil", "text": "Pavillon de Breteuil\n\nPavillon de Breteuil is a building located in Saint-Cloud, France, near Paris, and is listed in France as an historic monument. The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) is based in this building.\n\nBuilt overlooking the River Seine by Thomas Gobert in the parkland surrounding the Château de Saint-Cloud, the building was inaugurated by Louis XIV in 1672 and first known as the \"Trianon de Saint-Cloud\". The \"Trianon\" was renamed as the \"Pavillon du Mail\" in 1743 after being slightly modified. In 1785 the whole of the château estate (the \"Domaine de Saint-Cloud\"), including the pavillon, was acquired by Marie Antoinette, the queen of the last king of France, Louis XVI. For his part in arranging the acquisition of the pavillon, the queen granted Louis Auguste Le Tonnelier de Breteuil the use of the estate, and he made the pavillon his official residence, and it was renamed to the \"Pavillon de Breteuil\". During the French Revolution (1789–99), Breteuil fled from France, and the state took ownership of the pavillon. Following the revolution, the pavillon was renovated by Napoleon, renamed as the \"Pavillon d'Italie\". Until the fall of Napoleon in 1815, it was used as accommodation for visiting royalty. Following another restoration started in 1817, the pavillon, now the \"Pavillon de Breteuil\" again, was used as the official residence of a series of officials and dignitaries up until the start of the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71). In 1870, as a result of shelling during that war, the château was destroyed and the pavillon was badly damaged.\n\nIn 1875, the \"Diplomatic Conference of the Metre\" in Paris, which had been convened by the French government to try to reach an agreement on international collaboration for the maintenance and development of the metric system, established the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM) to start preliminary work on the formulation of international standards. To facilitate their work, the French government offered them the use of a site in the \"Domaine de Saint-Cloud\", which included the badly war-damaged Pavillon de Breteuil, which they accepted.\n\nFollowing an agreement signed on 25 April 1969 between the CIPM and the French government, functional privileges and immunities were granted to the BIPM as an international organistaion operating on the site of the Pavillon de Breteuil.\n\nIt is the home of the International Prototype of the Kilogram, which lost its status as a standard on 20 May 2019.\n\nSince 1900, the building has been listed as part of the \"Domaine national de Saint-Cloud\" as an historic monument in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996191", "title": "R. R. Rockingham Gill", "text": "R. R. Rockingham Gill\n\nRichard Rowan Rockingham Gill, (born 1944, South Africa) was a lecturer of philosophy—in particular, logic—and is an author.\n\nRockingham Gill received a MA from the University of St Andrews and has published variously in the \"Journal of Symbolic Logic\", \"Archiv für mathematische Logik und Grundlagenforschung\" (Archive for Mathematical Logic and Basic Research) and other journals.\n\nHe lectured at the University of Wales, Lampeter and is also the former head of the Department of Philosophy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996196", "title": "Luis de Pablo", "text": "Luis de Pablo\n\nLuis de Pablo Costales (born 28 January 1930) is a Spanish composer belonging to the generation of Spanish composers named by Cristóbal Halffter as Generación del 51.\n\nLuis de Pablo was born in Bilbao, his complete name is \"Luis de Pablo Costales\" but after losing his father in the Spanish Civil War, he went with his mother and siblings to live in Madrid from age six. Although he started to compose at the age of 12, his circumstances made it impossible to consider an artistic career, and so he studied law at the Universidad Complutense. For a short time after graduating in 1952, he was employed as legal advisor to Iberia Airlines, but soon resigned this post in order to pursue a career in music. Although he received composition lessons from Maurice Ohana and Max Deutsch, he was essentially an autodidact in composition. His participation at the Darmstadt courses in 1959 led to the performance of some of his works under Boulez and Maderna .\n\nHe was awarded Spain's Premio Nacional de Música for composition in 1991.\n\nIn Spain, he founded several organizations: Nueva Música, Tiempo y Música, and Alea and organized several contemporary music concert series, for example, the Forum Musical and Bienal de Música Contemporánea de Madrid. He was particularly concerned with promoting understanding in Spain of the Second Viennese School, publishing translations of Stuckenschmidt's biography of Arnold Schoenberg in 1961, and the writings of Anton Webern in 1963 . He is much in demand as a teacher, both in Spain and internationally.\n\nThe world premiere of his opera \"La señorita Cristina\" (Miss Cristina), based on a novel by Mircea Eliade, with a stage design by José Hernández, took place in 2001 at Teatro Real (Royal Theatre) in Madrid .\n\nLuis de Pablo Costales has more than 143 works among which are :<br>\n1953–1968\nChamber music\n\nChoral music\n\nOrchestral music\n\nOperas\n\nFilm music\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996199", "title": "Ian Austin", "text": "Ian Austin\n\nIan Christopher Austin (born 6 March 1965) is a British politician who was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Dudley North from the 2005 general election until the 2019 general election when he stood down. Formerly a member of the Labour Party, he resigned from the party on 22 February 2019 to sit as an independent. He served as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Department for Communities and Local Government from 2009 to 2010.\n\nAustin was born on 6 March 1965 and was adopted as a baby by Dudley school teachers Fred and Margaret Austin. His adoptive father, Fred (a Czech Jew who was himself adopted by an English family on the Nazi invasion of Czechoslovakia), was head of the Dudley School from its formation in 1975 until his retirement in 1985. Fred Austin, born Fredi Stiller, was awarded the MBE in the New Year's Honours List for 2006 in recognition of his service to the communities of Dudley. Fred Austin died in March 2019 at the age of 90, four months after the death of his wife Margaret. Ian Austin's adoptive siblings are David Austin, the chief executive of the British Board of Film Classification, Helen, who is a nutritionist and former teacher, and Rebecca, who is one of Britain's leading midwives.\n\nHaving failed the eleven-plus to attend King Edward's School, Birmingham, Austin was educated at the Dudley School from 1977 to 1983. He studied government and politics at the University of Essex.\n\nAustin was keen to obtain a National Union of Journalists card and took a job with Black Country Publishing in Netherton where his personal interest in sport, especially cycling (he was chair of the All-Party Parliamentary Cycling Group) and football, led him to work as a journalist on \"Midland Sport Magazine\".\n\nAustin was elected as a councillor in the Metropolitan Borough of Dudley in 1991, and served until 1995. He then moved to become press officer for the West Midlands Labour Party until 1998, when he spent a year as deputy director of communications for the Scottish Labour Party.\n\nAustin was appointed a political advisor to the Chancellor of the Exchequer (later Prime Minister), Gordon Brown, in 1999. He held the position until his election in 2005, and was known as one of Brown's closest lieutenants.\n\nAustin was selected as the Labour candidate for Dudley North following the retirement of Ross Cranston, and was elected at the 2005 general election with a majority of 5,432.\n\nIn June 2007, Austin was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Prime Minister to Gordon Brown, with a special provision to attend cabinet meetings. He was moved to a new position in the 2008 reshuffle, becoming an Assistant Whip for the Government. In the June 2009 reshuffle, he became Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at the Department for Communities and Local Government and Minister for the West Midlands. Under Ed Miliband, Austin served as Shadow Minister for Culture, Media and Sport between 2010 and 2011 and Shadow Minister for Work and Pensions between 2011 and 2013.\n\nIn the 2015 Parliament, Austin joined the Education Select Committee, and was appointed as chair of the Labour Party's education committee.\n\nAustin nominated Ed Balls, who came third, for the Labour leadership election of 2010.\n\nIn 2013, Austin proposed the government share costs with parents in areas of poor educational attainment who wished to send their children to private schools.\n\nIn October 2014, and again in December 2016, Austin called for greater action to limit immigration, and proposed a range of measures to achieve this, including tighter border controls, fingerprinting immigrants, deporting foreign criminals, reducing benefits entitlement, charging foreigners for NHS care, allowing only those who have lived or worked locally for two years on the housing list and measures to discourage the employment of immigrants rather than British citizens.\n\nIn March 2018, Austin described Russia as \"a fascist, homophobic dictatorship\" and suggested the England team boycott the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nAustin was a member of Labour Friends of Israel. Jonathan Goldstein of the Jewish Leadership Council has called him a friend and ally.\n\nAustin was reprimanded by the Speaker of the House of Commons for heckling during Prime Minister's Questions on 18 October 2006, and he was subsequently described by David Cameron as one of Gordon Brown's \"boot boys\". The following week he was rebuked again by the Speaker for comments made towards the Conservative benches.\n\nOn 1 June 2012, Austin apologised after falsely claiming a Palestinian human rights group, Friends of Al-Aqsa, had denied the Holocaust happened in an article he wrote on the Labour Uncut website in 2011. He accepted the material of which he complained had been produced by an unconnected individual.\n\nIn June 2014, Deputy Speaker Dawn Primarolo told Austin to apologise after he referred to Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood as an \"idiot\".\n\nIn July 2016, Austin was reprimanded by the Speaker of the House of Commons for heckling Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn by shouting \"sit down and shut up\" and \"you're a disgrace\", as Corbyn criticised the 2003 invasion of Iraq in his response to the publication of the Chilcot Inquiry.\n\nIn July 2018, Austin was put under investigation by the Labour Party for allegedly using abusive language towards the Party Chairman, Ian Lavery. General Secretary Jennie Formby dropped the inquiry in November, although Austin did receive a reprimand from the Chief Whip.\n\nIn May 2009, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported Austin had tried to split a claim for stamp duty on buying his second home in London into two payments and tried to claim the cost back over two financial years. This allowed him to claim the majority of the money (£21,559, just £75 short of the maximum) under his second-home allowance in the 2005/06 financial year. He then claimed for the remaining £1,344 stamp duty cost in 2006–2007, together with his legal fees. In all, he went on to claim £22,076 (£34 short of the maximum) in the next financial year.\n\nIt also reported Austin \"flipped\" his second-home designation weeks before buying a £270,000 London flat, and had claimed £467 for a stereo system for his constituency home, shortly before he changed his second-home designation to London. He then spent a further £2,800 furnishing the new London flat.\n\nAustin denied any wrongdoing, and defended his actions in an interview with local newspaper \"Dudley News\".\n\nIn 2013, Austin became one of the first Labour MPs to call for an in/out referendum on the UK's membership of the EU. He supported the UK remaining in the EU in the 2016 membership referendum, but was opposed to a second referendum.\nOn 15 January 2019, Austin was one of only three Labour MPs to vote for Theresa May's Brexit deal in the Meaningful vote (along with Kevin Barron and John Mann). In the same series of votes, Austin was one of 14 Labour MPs who voted against his colleague Yvette Cooper's amendment, which was designed to prevent a no-deal Brexit by extending the article 50 negotiating period.\n\nOn 22 February 2019, Austin resigned from the Labour Party over what he said was its 'culture of extremism, anti-Semitism and intolerance' and became an independent MP. His resignation was in the same week as The Independent Group had been formed, but Austin did not join, as he disagreed with their desire for another referendum on Brexit. \n\nOn 19 March, MPs passed a motion put forward by Labour to remove Austin, as well as Independent Group MP Mike Gapes, from the seats on the Foreign Affairs Select Committee they held as part of the Labour Party's allocation. Austin said Jeremy Corbyn wanted \"to boot me off this committee because I stood up against racism\", while Labour said it was right the party filled its allocation of seats on the committees.\n\nIn July 2019, Austin was appointed Prime Ministerial Trade Envoy to Israel by Theresa May. It was an unpaid and voluntary cross-party network, supporting UK trade and investment in global markets.\n\nIn September 2019, Austin used his speech in the emergency debate proposed by Jeremy Corbyn to criticise him. Labour MPs on the benches around him told him to \"go sit somewhere else\" in anger at his comments. Later in the month he attended the Labour Party conference with a large mobile billboard stating Corbyn was unfit to lead the party or country. In November 2019, Austin announced he would not stand in the December general election, and advised his constituents to vote for the Conservative Party in order to stop Jeremy Corbyn becoming Prime Minister. In December 2019, ten days before the general election, Labour supporters and members received a letter from Austin through the Royal Mail. In the letter, Austin urged Labour voters to vote Conservative. The letter claimed the addresses had been obtained from the Register of Electors and was a promotion on behalf of the Conservative and Unionist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996200", "title": "Mary Poovey", "text": "Mary Poovey\n\nMary Louise Poovey is an American cultural historian and literary critic whose work focuses on the Victorian Era. She is currently Samuel Rudin University Professor in the Humanities at New York University, and Director of the Institute for the History of the Production of Knowledge. Poovey has taught at Johns Hopkins University, Swarthmore College, and Yale University.\n\nPoovey gained her PhD from the University of Virginia in 1976.\n\nIn 1984 Poovey published \"The Proper Lady and the Woman Writer: Ideology as Style in the Works of Mary Wollstonecraft, Mary Shelley, and Jane Austen\". Her book is based around the idea of a \"Proper Lady\" and she looks at the difficulties that these three important authors had in breaking free from this mould.\n\nPoovey has been recognised as important in the work that she has done in feminist reading. She has looked at how the growth of women writing was a device for seeing their voices emerge.\n\nPoovey conducted a public re-evaluation in 1999 at the British Women Writers Conference as a theoretical exercise of a writer's work. Poovey re-read the works of Ellen Pickering and decided that they were not worth reviving. This novelist's works had been popular in the 19th century but she considered the books to be over-complicated and lacking in innovation. She concluded that the only reason to re-read works like this was to confirm that the books that we had chosen to remember, like \"Jane Eyre\" and \"Mary Barton\", are the best of their type. Poovey used her re-reading of Pickering's novels to argue that not all writers need to be revived into the literary canon. Tamara Wagner went on to argue that this shows that we need to debunk our \"history of reading these texts back from reality\"?\n\nOn January 30, 2015 Poovey received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Social Sciences at Uppsala University, Sweden.\n\n\nHer books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996205", "title": "Estrous cycle", "text": "Estrous cycle\n\nThe estrous cycle or oestrus cycle (derived from Latin \"oestrus\" \"frenzy\", originally from Greek οἶστρος \"oîstros\" \"gadfly\") is the set of recurring physiological changes that are induced by reproductive hormones in most mammalian therian females. Estrous cycles start after sexual maturity in females and are interrupted by anestrous phases or by pregnancies. Typically, estrous cycles continue until death. Some animals may display bloody vaginal discharge, often mistaken for menstruation.\n\nMammals share the same reproductive system, including the regulatory hypothalamic system that produces gonadotropin-releasing hormone in pulses, the pituitary gland that secretes follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone, and the ovary itself that releases sex hormones, including estrogens and progesterone.\n\nHowever, species vary significantly in the detailed functioning. One difference is that animals that have estrous cycles resorb the endometrium if conception does not occur during that cycle. Animals that have menstrual cycles shed the endometrium through menstruation instead. Another difference is sexual activity. In species with estrous cycles, females are generally only sexually active during the estrus (oestrus) phase of their cycle. This is also referred to as being \"in heat.\" In contrast, females of species with menstrual cycles can be sexually active at any time in their cycle, even when they are not about to ovulate.\n\nHumans have menstrual cycles rather than estrous cycles. They, unlike most other species, have concealed ovulation, a lack of obvious external signs to signal estral receptivity at ovulation (i.e., the ability to become pregnant). There are, however, subtle signs to which human males may favorably respond, including changes in a woman's scent and facial appearance. Some research also suggests that women tend to have more sexual thoughts and are more prone to sexual activity right before ovulation. Animals with estrous cycles often have unmistakable outward displays of receptivity, ranging from engorged and colorful genitals to behavioral changes like mating calls. \n\n\"Estrus\" is derived via Latin \"\" ('frenzy', 'gadfly'), from Greek \"oîstros\" (literally 'gadfly', more figuratively 'frenzy', 'madness', among other meanings like 'breeze'). Specifically, this refers to the gadfly in Ancient Greek mythology that Hera sent to torment Io, who had been won in her heifer form by Zeus. Euripides used \"oestrus\" to indicate 'frenzy', and to describe madness. Homer used the word to describe panic. Plato also used it to refer to an irrational drive and to describe the soul \"driven and drawn by the gadfly of desire\". Somewhat more closely aligned to current meaning and usage of \"estrus\", Herodotus (\"Histories\", ch. 93.1) uses \"oîstros\" to describe the desire of fish to spawn.\n\nThe earliest use in English was with a meaning of 'frenzied passion'. In 1900, it was first used to describe 'rut in animals; heat'.\n\nIn British and most Commonwealth English, the spelling is \"oestrus\" or (rarely) \"œstrus\". In all English spellings, the noun ends in \"-us\" and the adjective in \"-ous\". Thus in North American English, a mammal may be described as \"in estrus\" when it is in that particular part of the estrous cycle.\n\nA four-phase terminology is used in reference to animals with estrous cycles.\n\nOne or several follicles of the ovary start to grow. Their number is species specific. Typically this phase can last as little as one day or as long as three weeks, depending on the species. Under the influence of estrogen, the lining in the uterus (endometrium) starts to develop. Some animals may experience vaginal secretions that could be bloody. The female is not yet sexually receptive; the old corpus luteum degenerates; the uterus and the vagina distend and fill with fluid, become contractile and secrete a sanguinous fluid; the vaginal epithelium proliferates and the vaginal cytology shows a large number of non-cornified nucleated epithelial cells. Variant terms for \"proestrus\" include \"pro-oestrus\", \"proestrum\", and \"pro-oestrum\".\n\nEstrus or oestrus refers to the phase when the female is sexually receptive (\"in heat\"). Under regulation by gonadotropic hormones, ovarian follicles mature and estrogen secretions exert their biggest influence. The female then exhibits sexually receptive behavior, a situation that may be signaled by visible physiologic changes. Estrus is commonly seen in the mammalian species, including primates. It is thought that this increased sexual receptivity serves the function of helping the female obtain mates with superior genetic quality. This phase is sometimes called estrum or oestrum.\n\nIn some species, the labia are reddened. Ovulation may occur spontaneously in others. Especially among quadrupeds, a signal trait of estrus is the lordosis reflex, in which the animal spontaneously elevates her hindquarters.\n\nThis phase is characterized by the activity of the corpus luteum, which produces progesterone. The signs of estrogen stimulation subside and the corpus luteum starts to form. The uterine lining begins to appear. In the absence of pregnancy the diestrus phase (also termed pseudo-pregnancy) terminates with the regression of the corpus luteum. The lining in the uterus is not shed, but is reorganized for the next cycle. Other spellings include \"metoestrus\", \"metestrum\", \"metoestrum\", \"dioestrus\", \"diestrum\", and \"dioestrum\".\n\nAnestrus refers to the phase when the sexual cycle rests. This is typically a seasonal event and controlled by light exposure through the pineal gland that releases melatonin. Melatonin may repress stimulation of reproduction in long-day breeders and stimulate reproduction in short-day breeders. Melatonin is thought to act by regulating the hypothalamic pulse activity of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone. Anestrus is induced by time of year, pregnancy, lactation, significant illness, chronic energy deficit, and possibly age. Chronic exposure to anabolic steroids may also induce a persistent anestrus due to negative feedback on the hypothalamus/pituitary/gonadal axis. Other spellings include \"anoestrus\", \"anestrum\", and \"anoestrum\".\nAfter completion (or abortion) of a pregnancy, some species have \"postpartum estrus\", which is ovulation and corpus luteum production that occurs immediately following the birth of the young. For example, the mouse has a fertile postpartum estrus that occurs 14 to 24 hours following parturition.\n\nEstrous cycle variability differs among species, but cycles are typically more frequent in smaller animals. Even within species significant variability can be observed, thus cats may undergo an estrous cycle of 3 to 7 weeks. Domestication can affect estrous cycles due to changes in the environment.\n\nSome species, such as cats, cows and domestic pigs, are polyestrous, meaning that they can go into heat several times per year. Seasonally polyestrous animals or seasonal breeders have more than one estrous cycle during a specific time of the year and can be divided into short-day and long-day breeders:\n\nSpecies that go into heat twice per year are diestrous. Canines are diestrous. \n\nMonoestrous species, such as bears, foxes, and wolves, have only one breeding season per year, typically in spring to allow growth of the offspring during the warm season to aid survival during the next winter.\n\nA few mammalian species, such as rabbits and cats, do not have an estrous cycle, instead being induced to ovulate by the act of mating and are able to conceive at almost any arbitrary moment.\n\nGenerally speaking, the timing of estrus is coordinated with seasonal availability of food and other circumstances such as migration, predation etc., the goal being to maximize the offspring's chances of survival. Some species are able to modify their estral timing in response to external conditions.\n\nThe female cat in heat has an estrus of 14 to 21 days and is generally characterized as an induced ovulator, since coitus induces ovulation. However, various incidents of spontaneous ovulation have been documented in the domestic cat and various non-domestic species. Without ovulation, she may enter interestrus, which is the combined stages of diestrus and anestrus, before reentering estrus. With the induction of ovulation, the female becomes pregnant or undergoes a non-pregnant luteal phase, also known as pseudopregnancy. Cats are polyestrous but experience a seasonal anestrus in autumn and late winter.\n\nA female dog is usually diestrous (goes into heat typically twice per year), although some breeds typically have one or three cycles per year. The proestrus is relatively long at 5 to 9 days, while the estrus may last 4 to 13 days, with a diestrus of 60 days followed by about 90 to 150 days of anestrus. Female dogs bleed during estrus, which usually lasts from 7–13 days, depending on the size and maturity of the dog. Ovulation occurs 24–48 hours after the luteinizing hormone peak, which occurs around the fourth day of estrus; therefore, this is the best time to begin breeding. Proestrus bleeding in dogs is common and is believed to be caused by diapedesis of red blood cells from the blood vessels due to the increase of the estradiol-17β hormone.\n\nA mare may be in heat for 4 to 10 days, followed by approximately 14 days in diestrus. Thus, a cycle may be short, totaling approximately 3 weeks. Horses mate in spring and summer; autumn is a transition time, and anestrus occurs during winter.\n\nA feature of the fertility cycle of horses and other large herd animals is that it is usually affected by the seasons. The number of hours daily that light enters the eye of the animal affects the brain, which governs the release of certain precursors and hormones. When daylight hours are few, these animals \"shut down,\" become anestrous, and do not become fertile. As the days grow longer, the longer periods of daylight cause the hormones that activate the breeding cycle to be released. As it happens, this benefits these animals in that, given a gestation period of about eleven months, it prevents them from having young when the cold of winter would make their survival risky.\n\nRats typically have rapid cycle times of 4 to 5 days. Although they ovulate spontaneously, they do not develop a fully functioning corpus luteum unless they receive coital stimulation. Fertile mating leads to pregnancy in this way, but infertile mating leads to a state of pseudopregnancy lasting about 10 days. Mice and hamsters have similar behaviour. The events of the cycle are strongly influenced by lighting periodicity.\n\nA set of follicles starts to develop near the end of proestrus and grows at a nearly constant rate until the beginning of the subsequent estrus when the growth rates accelerate eightfold. Ovulation occurs about 109 hours after the start of follicle growth.\n\nOestrogen peaks at about 11 am on the day of proestrus. Between then and midnight there is a surge in progesterone, luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, and ovulation occurs at about 4 am on the next estrus day. The following day, metestrus, is called early diestrus or diestrus I. During this day, the corpora lutea grow to a maximal volume, achieved within 24 hours of ovulation. They remain at that size for three days, halve in size before the metestrus of the next cycle and then shrink abruptly before estrus of the cycle after that. Thus the ovaries of cycling rats contain three different sets of corpora lutea at different phases of development.\n\nBuffalo have an estrous cycle of about 22 to 24 days. Buffalo are known for difficult estrus detection. This is one major reason for being less productive than cattle. During four phases of its estrous cycle, mean weight of corpus luteum has been found to be 1.23±0.22g (metestrus), 3.15±0.10g (early diestrus), 2.25±0.32g (late diestrus), and 1.89±0.31g (proestrus/estrus), respectively. The plasma progesterone concentration was 1.68±0.37, 4.29±0.22, 3.89±0.33, and 0.34±0.14 ng/ml while mean vascular density (mean number of vessels/10 microscopic fields at 400x) in corpus luteum was 6.33±0.99, 18.00±0.86, 11.50±0.76, and 2.83±0.60 during the metestrus, early diestrus, late diestrus and proestrus/estrus, respectively.\n\nEstrus frequencies of some other mammals:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996210", "title": "British Radio Car Association", "text": "British Radio Car Association\n\nThe British Radio Car Association (or BRCA) is an organisation that promotes the construction and racing of all types of radio controlled cars in the United Kingdom. Founded in 1971 by Ted Longshaw and Keith Plested, who was also the founder of PB Racing, a manufacturer of RC cars; they coordinate BRCA affiliated clubs in the UK, and offer insurance for any accidents that might occur. \n\nThey also organise regional and national racing events for various classes. Each year the BRCA produces a rules booklet for every UK racing class, such as 1:10 Electric touring cars, 1:8 Nitro circuit cars and 1:16 Electric micro offroad cars with specific rules as regard to maximum and minimum dimensions, and homologated motors and cells. It is recommended (and at some clubs compulsory) to become a BRCA member due to its insurance and health and safety benefits.\n\nThe BRCA is a member of the European Federation of Radio Operated Model Automobiles (EFRA).\n\nThe BRCA is also affiliated with the Motor Sports Association who deal with motorsports in the UK, although deal primarily with full-size racing rather than scale model racing\n\nAs outlined in the constitution of the BRCA their objectives are:\n\n\nThe BRCA is made up of 13 sections, each section maintain and hold their own construction rules for the classes they race:\n\n1998 On-Trac held in South Shields\n\n2016 First Reedy International 1/12 Race of Champions at centre:mk Milton Keynes\n\n2017 First GT12 Worlds held at centre:mk\n\n2020 IFMAR 1/12th World Championship at centre:mk Milton Keynes\n\n"}
{"id": "1996214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996214", "title": "Lynn Patrick", "text": "Lynn Patrick\n\nJoseph Lynn Patrick (February 3, 1912 – January 26, 1980) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player and executive. As a player, Patrick played ten seasons in the National Hockey League for the New York Rangers. He was twice named to the NHL All-Star Team and was a member of the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup championship team. Patrick turned to coaching following his playing career, serving first with the Rangers, then the Boston Bruins – where he was also general manager – and finally as the first head coach of the St. Louis Blues.\n\nPatrick was part of one of hockey's most famous families. His brother Muzz and son Glenn were also NHL players, while his father Lester, uncle Frank Patrick and son Craig are all members of the Hockey Hall of Fame. Lynn was himself posthumously inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1980 and was a recipient of the Lester Patrick Trophy in 1989 for his contributions to the sport in the United States.\n\nPatrick was born February 3, 1912, in Victoria, British Columbia. His father Lester and uncle Frank were founders and operators of the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA). Lynn also played hockey growing up, until Victoria's Patrick Arena burned down in 1929. Lynn played several sports in addition to hockey; he was a member of the Vancouver Blue Ribbons basketball team that won the Canadian national championship in 1933. After his father sent he and his brother Muzz to Montreal to study at McGill University, Patrick resumed his hockey career with the Royal Montreal Hockey Club in 1933. He also played basketball and football at the same time.\n\nLester Patrick was managing the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL) in 1934 when his assistants convinced him to sign Lynn to a contract. Lester was hesitant, fearing that such a move would be labeled as nepotism. Nonetheless, the Rangers signed Lynn to a contract on November 4, 1934. He made his NHL debut on November 10, 1934, against the St. Louis Eagles. Lynn struggled in his rookie season of 1934–35, resulting in the criticism Lester feared. Lynn was often maligned by fans and the press, but was a steady presence for the Rangers over the next several seasons as he scored between 25 and 34 points in 48-game seasons between 1935–36 and 1939–40. His brother Muzz joined the team in 1938, and the pair were members of New York's 1940 Stanley Cup championship team.\n\nPlaying on a line by Bryan Hextall and Phil Watson, Patrick developed into a leading offensive player for the Rangers. He recorded 44 points in 1940–41, then led the NHL with 32 goals in 1941–42. He was named to the NHL's first All-Star Team, and to the second team in 1942–43. That season, Patrick set a career high with 61 points. Patrick then left the NHL for two years to serve with the United States military in the Second World War. He returned to the league for one final NHL season in 1945–46, but found that he lost his skating speed during his time off and switched from left wing to defence. It was his final season in the NHL. In 455 games over ten seasons, Patrick scored 145 goals and 335 points.\n\nThe Rangers named Patrick the head coach of their American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate, the New Haven Ramblers for the 1946–47 season. He was also listed as a utility player for the team, but hoped he would play only if necessary. Nonetheless, he appeared in 16 games for the Ramblers; he recorded two goals and six assists. He remained with New Haven for the following two seasons, and was promoted to head coach of the Rangers midway through the 1948–49 NHL season. He served as Rangers coach until 1950 before moving on to coach the Boston Bruins between 1950 and 1955. He was also named the team's general manager in 1954, a position he held until 1964. Patrick had three short stints as head coach of the St. Louis Blues and two as general manager. He was as the first general manager and head coach of the Blues in 1967–68, but quickly surrendered the coaching role to Scotty Bowman, who led the team to an appearance in the 1968 Stanley Cup Finals. He ultimately became the Blues' senior vice president, a position he held until his retirement in 1977.\n\nPatrick married Dorothea Davis, a model and actress, in 1939. He and Dorothea had one son, Lester Lee Patrick. Lynn Patrick died on January 26, 1980. He left a Blues game that night due to illness but crashed his car near the arena after suffering a heart attack.\n\nLynn was a member of one of hockey's most famous families. His father Lester and uncle Frank were both inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. His brother Muzz was an NHL player, as were his sons Craig and Glenn. Lynn was posthumously inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1980, months after his death. Craig became the fourth member of the Patrick family so honoured in 2001. USA Hockey recognized Lynn's contributions to hockey in the United States by naming him a recipient of the Lester Patrick Trophy in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996219", "title": "Belmont Park railway station, Perth", "text": "Belmont Park railway station, Perth\n\nBelmont Park railway station was located on the Armadale/Thornlie line in Perth, Western Australia. It was operated by Transperth serving Belmont Park Racecourse from 1906 until 2013.\n\nBelmont Park station opened in 1906 as Goodwood. In 1979 it was renamed Belmont Park. It was used only when there was an event at the Belmont Park Racecourse.\n\nThe station closed on 18 October 2013 to make way for the new Perth Stadium station that has been built as part of the Perth Stadium project.\n"}
{"id": "1996225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996225", "title": "Marlon Byrd", "text": "Marlon Byrd\n\nMarlon Jerrard Byrd (born August 30, 1977) is an American former professional baseball outfielder, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Philadelphia Phillies, Washington Nationals, Texas Rangers, Chicago Cubs, Boston Red Sox, New York Mets, Pittsburgh Pirates, San Francisco Giants, Cincinnati Reds, and Cleveland Indians. He was suspended twice for using performance-enhancing drugs.\n\nByrd is a 1995 graduate of Sprayberry High School in Marietta, Georgia, and won All-State honors in baseball and football. He played on the 1993 state runner-up team as a sophomore, and was part of the 1995 state championship team.\n\nByrd began his college baseball career at Georgia Tech. As a sophomore in 1996, after experiencing discomfort in his leg, Byrd was diagnosed with an infection in his tibialis anterior muscle, the largest muscle in the lower leg. After considering amputation, doctors chose to perform surgery to remove the muscle entirely. Between Thanksgiving in 1996 and January 1997, Byrd underwent a total of three operations. He spent nearly two years rehabbing the injury, during which time his body weight rose from 225 to 315 pounds. He shed the weight by approximating a bodybuilder diet and then enrolled at Georgia Perimeter College where he played his final season of college baseball in 1999.\n\nByrd reached the major leagues in 2003. He came in fourth in the Rookie of the Year voting, batting .303 with 86 runs scored, 28 doubles, four triples, seven home runs and 11 stolen bases in 135 games and 495 at-bats.\n\nDuring his rookie season, Byrd and the team were sued by a fan who suffered a concussion from a ball that Byrd threw into the stands as a souvenir after making the last out of an inning. Both he and the team were granted summary judgement in their favor by the trial court, but the plaintiff appealed. A three-judge panel of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania heard the case, and two of the judges affirmed the judgement, holding that while such gifts to the fans are not part of gameplay, they are a common enough aspect of baseball games today that the Baseball Rule, which limits teams' liability to spectators injured by foul balls, applied to Byrd's throw as well.\n\n\"I do not doubt that Marlon Byrd threw the ball that hit [a]ppellant without malicious intent,\" wrote the dissenting justice, John Bender. \"[But] if a baseball player wants to go beyond the confines of the game and provide a gratuitous souvenir to a fan, he should be charged with the obligation of doing it in a reasonably safe and prudent manner. Here, there is certainly evidence from which a factfinder might conclude that the manner in which Byrd threw the ball into the stands was imprudent.\" Bender said a jury should have been allowed to decide that question.\n\nByrd was traded to the Washington Nationals in 2005 for Endy Chávez. On July 15, 2006, Byrd was designated for assignment and assigned to Washington's Triple-A affiliate, the New Orleans Zephyrs.\n\nByrd was signed as a free agent by the Rangers on December 8, 2006, to compete for the starting position in center field. After failing to make the Rangers' major league roster out of spring training, Byrd was assigned to the Triple-A Oklahoma RedHawks. Byrd's contract was purchased on May 26, 2007, following injuries to outfielders Brad Wilkerson and Jerry Hairston, Jr. Making the most of his call-up by hitting over .400 for the month of June, Byrd played his way into the line-up, allowing the Rangers to trade center fielder Kenny Lofton prior to the trading deadline. On August 4, 2008, he hit a walk-off grand slam to help the Rangers beat the Yankees 9–5.\n\nByrd had a career season in 2009, hitting 20 home runs and collecting 89 RBIs.\n\nFollowing the 2009 season, Byrd filed for free agency, declining the Rangers' offer of salary arbitration.\n\nOn December 31, 2009, Byrd signed a three-year, $15 million contract with the Chicago Cubs. In his first season with the Cubs, Byrd had his best season. He was selected for his first All-Star Game. Byrd entered the game as a substitute and drew a walk off of Matt Thornton. He scored from first base on a double by Brian McCann. In the ninth inning, while playing right field, Byrd made an outstanding play, forcing Boston DH David Ortiz at second after fielding what normally would have been a base hit.\n\nOn May 21, 2011, while batting during the 2nd inning of a game against the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park, Byrd was hit near his left eye by a pitch from Red Sox pitcher Alfredo Aceves. The pitch was, according to Aceves, unintentional. After the pitch hit him, Byrd dropped to the ground, covered the area by his left eye and rolled in pain; he was helped off the field by Cubs medical personnel and taken to the trainer's room in the clubhouse. Byrd did not return to the game. He was taken to Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where he stayed overnight to be examined. The incident marked the fifth time that Byrd had been hit by a pitch in a ten-day period. Byrd was placed on the 15-day disabled list the following day. Justin Berg was called up to take his place. After coming off his stint on the disabled list, Byrd wore a protective mask customized to his helmet in order to shield his weakened facial bones.\n\nAfter the 2011 season Byrd began practicing Muay Thai and started a new diet and lost 40 lbs.\n\nOn April 21, 2012 Byrd was traded to the Boston Red Sox for Michael Bowden and a player to be named later. Minor league pitcher Hunter Cervenka was the player sent to the Cubs May 15. On June 9, Byrd was designated for assignment by the Red Sox in order to make room for Daisuke Matsuzaka, who was returning from the disabled list. On June 12, 2012 Byrd was released. On June 25, Byrd was suspended 50 games for testing positive for a banned substance. Byrd was placed on the restricted list and remained there until August 20.\n\nOn February 1, 2013, Byrd signed a minor-league deal with the Mets. Byrd hit a walk-off 2 RBI single on April 7 for the Mets on their way to a 4-3 victory over the Miami Marlins. Before a game on June 5, 2013, Byrd joked with Mets teammate Anthony Recker that he was going to hit two home runs in the game. Byrd did hit two home runs in the Mets 10-1 win over the Washington Nationals. Byrd hit .285 with 21 home runs and 71 RBI in 117 games for the Mets before being traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates. On August 27, Byrd and John Buck were traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates in exchange for infield prospect Dilson Herrera and a player to be named later, identified on August 29 as Vic Black. In his first game with the Pirates, Byrd hit a 3-run home run in Pittsburgh's 7-1 victory over Milwaukee. In the 2013 National League Wild Card Game, Byrd went 2-4 with a home run and 2 RBI, as the Pirates defeated the Cincinnati Reds 6-2.\nOn November 12, 2013, Byrd agreed in principle to a two-year contract worth $16 million to return to the Phillies. The deal included an $8 million club option for 2016 that vested based on plate appearances. Unlike his previous years, Byrd began to strike out more often. In 154 games of 2014, Byrd struck out 185 times while batting .264 with 25 home runs and 85 RBI. On December 31, 2014, Byrd was traded to the Cincinnati Reds for starting pitcher Ben Lively.\n\nAs of May 14, 2015 Byrd was hitting .342 with six home runs and 14 RBIs in the month of May. He reached 19 home runs before being traded to the San Francisco Giants.\n\nOn August 20, 2015, Byrd was traded to the San Francisco Giants for Double-A reliever Stephen Johnson. He hit a home run on his first at-bat with the Giants on August 21, 2015 against the Pittsburgh Pirates. Byrd hit the Giants' record-breaking 8th grand slam of the season against the Cardinals on August 28, against Michael Wacha. This was Byrd's first career hit against Wacha, and it was Wacha's first grand-slam given up. In 2015, he batted .247/.290/.453, and swung at 60.5% of all pitches he saw, tops in the major leagues.\n\nAfter becoming a free agent following the 2015 season, Byrd signed a minor-league contract with the Cleveland Indians on March 18, 2016 with an invitation to major-league spring training camp. The Indians purchased his contract and added him to the active roster on April 3. In 34 games, he hit .270 with 5 HR and 19 RBI before being suspended.\n\nOn June 1, 2016, Byrd was suspended 162 games for his second positive PED test. The day his suspension started, he told his teammates that his career was over.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996242", "title": "Babe Pratt", "text": "Babe Pratt\n\nWalter Peter \"Babe\" Pratt (January 7, 1916 – December 16, 1988) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman/left winger who played for the New York Rangers, Toronto Maple Leafs and the Boston Bruins in the National Hockey League. He is the father of the NHL hockey player, Tracy Pratt.\n\nBabe was an important member of two Stanley Cup winning teams, the 1940 Rangers and 1945 Maple Leafs. He won the Hart Trophy in 1944. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1966.\n\nIn January, 1946 Pratt was caught betting on hockey games and was subsequently suspended from the NHL. Pratt admitted to gambling but denied ever placing a bet against his own team. After promising to quit betting he was reinstated to the Toronto Maple Leafs. His last NHL season was with the Boston Bruins in 1946–47 and he played in the minors after that.\n\nHe subsequently worked as an analyst for CBC Television's \"Hockey Night In Canada\" telecasts from Vancouver in the 1970s and served as a goodwill ambassador of the Vancouver Canucks. Pratt collapsed and died of a heart attack in the media lounge of the Pacific Coliseum in Vancouver during the first intermission of a Canucks game on December 16, 1988. The Canucks honored Pratt's memory by stitching \"BABE\" on their sweaters for the remainder of the hockey season.\n\nDespite the brevity of his career, the time passed since it ended, and a reputation for rough play, in 1998, he was ranked number 96 on \"The Hockey News\"' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996244", "title": "Culture of Nepal", "text": "Culture of Nepal\n\nThe culture of Nepal encompasses the various cultures belonging to the 125 distinct ethnic groups present in Nepal. The culture of Nepal is expressed through music and dance; art and craft; folklore; languages and literature; philosophy and religion; festivals and celebration; foods and drinks.\n\nLegends state that dances in this country originated in the abode of Lord Shiva — the Himalayas, where he performed the tandava dance. This indicates that dance traditions of Nepal are very ancient and unique. With altitudes and ethnicity, the dances of Nepal slightly change in style as well as in the costumes. The Dishka, a dance performed at weddings, includes intricate footwork and arm movements. Accompanying music and musical instruments change in tune with the themes, which revolve around topics like harvesting of crops, marriage rites, war stories, a lonely girl's yearning for her love, and several other themes and stories from everyday life in the villages. The famous Tharu stick dances, and the crazy peacock dance are two highlights, but there are plenty of other surprises. Expect to be invited to join in the dancing, as the evening reaches its climax.\n\nAs per the 2011 census, 123 languages are spoken in Nepal. Nepal's linguistic heritage has evolved from three major language groups: Indo-Aryan, Tibeto-Burman, and indigenous. The major languages of Nepal (percent spoken as mother tongue) are Nepali (44.6%), Maithili (11.7%), Bhojpuri(6%), Tharu (5.8%), Tamang (5.1%), Nepal Bhasa (3.2%), Magar (3%) and Bajjika (3%) Kirat-Sunuwar, Limbu, Rai, Gurung.\n\nNepali, written in Devanagari script, is the official national language and serves as \"lingua franca\" among Nepalese ethno-linguistic groups. Extinct languages of Nepal include Kusunda, MaWalinga and Waling\n\nReligions and philosophy of Nepal\nThe 2011 census identified 81.6% of the population being Hindu. Buddhism was practiced by about 9% of the population. About 4.2% practice Islam and 3.6% of the population follows the indigenous Kirant religion. Christianity is practiced officially by less than 1.0%.\n\nHindu and Buddhist traditions in Nepal go back more than two millennia. In Lumbini, Buddha was born, and Pashupatinath temple, Kathmandu, is an old and famous Shiva temple of Hindus. Nepal has several other temples and Buddhist monasteries, as well as places of worship of other religious groups. Traditionally, Nepalese philosophical thoughts are ingrained with the Hindu and Buddhist philosophical ethos and traditions, which include elements of Kashmir Shaivism, Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism, works of Karmacharyas of Bhaktapur, and tantric traditions. Tantric traditions are deep rooted in Nepal, including the practice of animal sacrifices. Five types of animals, always male, are considered acceptable for sacrifice: water buffalo, goats, sheep, chickens, and ducks. Cows are very sacred animals and are never considered acceptable for sacrifice.\n\nSeveral of the festivals of Nepal last from one to several days. As a predominantly Hindu and Buddhist nation, most of the Nepalese festivals are religious ones. The festivals of Nepal have their roots in Hinduism as more than 80% of the population of the country is Hindu. Buddhism, the second-largest religion of the nation which accounts for 9% of the population, has influenced the cultural festivals of Nepal. Dashain or Vijaya Dashami is the longest and the most important festival of Nepal. Generally Dashain falls in late September to mid-October, right after the end of the monsoon season. It is \"a day of Victory over Demons\". The Newars celebrate the festival as Mohani, Tihar or Dipawali, Holi, Saraswati Puja, Rakshabandhan, Bhai Dooj, Janmashtami, Gai Jatra, Nag Panchami, Teej, Chhath, Kartik Poornima, Maghe Sankranti,or Makar Sankranti Maha Shivratri and Chhechu are widely celebrated important festivals of Nepal. New Year's Day of the lunar calendar Nepal Sambat occurs in November. Several Jatras take place throughout the year and public holidays are declared in some regions.\n\nOther important festivals include Buddha Purnima (the celebration of the birth of Buddha) Maha Shivaratri (a festival of Lord Shiva) and during Maha Shivaratri festivities, some people consume excessive drinks and smoke charas. Sherpas, mostly located at higher altitudes and in the Mount Everest region, celebrate \"Mani Rimdu\", for \"the good of the world\".\n\nMost festivals include dancing and music, and a variety of special foods are consumed during festivals and on special occasions.\n\nThe Sagan ceremony is the ritualized presentation of five food items (boiled egg, smoked fish, meat, lentil cake and rice wine) to a person which is done to bring good fortune as per Tantric tradition.\n\nl\nNepal Tourism Board,2020,CULTURE OF NEPAL. Retrieved April 2, 2020]\n\nNepal Sampada Sangha (Nepal Heritage Society) has compiled an inventory of 1,262 significant architectural and archeological sites in Nepal outside Kathmandu Valley.\n\nThe government declared Volleyball as the national game of the country. Before it use to be \"Dandi Biyo\"\n\nA Cabinet meeting held at the Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal's residence in Baluwatar took the decision. The Ministry of Youth and Sports had put the proposal to declare volleyball as the national game. Nepal Volleyball Association had been demanding that the sport, which is played in all 75 districts of the country, should be the national game.\n\nNational Sports Council's former Member Secretary Yubaraj Lama had initiated the process of deciding the national game, while the current Member Secretary Keshab Kumar Bista had recommended for the national game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996246", "title": "United States Attorney for the Southern District of California", "text": "United States Attorney for the Southern District of California\n\nThe United States Attorney for the Southern District of California is the United States Attorney responsible for representing the federal government in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. \n\nThe current United States Attorney is Robert Brewer.\n\nThe main office is in San Diego, with a branch office in Imperial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996247", "title": "Gilles Tremblay (composer)", "text": "Gilles Tremblay (composer)\n\nGilles Tremblay, (6 September 1932 – 27 July 2017) was a Canadian composer. \n\nTrembay studied at the Conservatories of Montreal and Paris (1954–61), where his teachers including Olivier Messiaen (analysis), Andrée Vaurabourg-Honegger (counterpoint), Yvonne Loriod (piano), and Maurice Martenot (inventor of the ondes Martenot) (; ). He also attended Stockhausen's summer courses at Darmstadt, where he became interested in electro-acoustic techniques . \n\nTremblay returned to Quebec in 1961. He taught musical analysis at the Centre d’arts Orford and at the Conservatoire de musique du Québec, at Quebec City . Beginning in 1962, and for many years, he taught composition at the Conservatoire de musique du Québec à Montréal. Among his pupils are Serge Arcuri, Raynald Arseneault, Yves Daoust, François Dompierre, Marc Hyland, Ramon Lazkano, Robin Minard, Éric Morin, Silvio Palmieri, Micheline Coulombe Saint-Marcoux, André Villeneuve, Claude Vivier, and Wolf Edwards .\n\nEarly in his career he performed as a specialist on the ondes Martenot .\n\nIn 1991, he was made an Officer of the National Order of Quebec.\n\nTremblay died August 4, 2017, at Côte-des-Neiges–Notre-Dame-de-Grâce .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996253", "title": "Marcel Pronovost", "text": "Marcel Pronovost\n\nJoseph René Marcel Pronovost (June 15, 1930 – April 26, 2015) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman and coach. He played in 1,206 games over 20 National Hockey League (NHL) seasons for the Detroit Red Wings and Toronto Maple Leafs between 1950 and 1970. A top defenceman, Pronovost was named to four post-season NHL All-Star Teams and played in 11 All-Star Games. He was a member of four Stanley Cup championship teams with the Red Wings, the first in 1950, and won a fifth title with the Maple Leafs in 1967. Pronovost was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame as a player in 1978.\n\nPronovost began coaching in 1969 and spent several seasons behind the bench of the junior Hull Olympiques and Windsor Spitfires. He was head coach of the Chicago Cougars in the World Hockey Association's inaugural season in 1972–73, coached 104 games in the NHL for the Buffalo Sabres between 1977 and 1978 and was briefly an associate coach of the Red Wings. Pronovost worked for the NHL Central Scouting Bureau for five years until 1990, when he was hired as a scout for the New Jersey Devils, with whom he was a member of three Stanley Cup championship teams, with the last coming in 2003. The 53-year span between his first championship and his last is a Stanley Cup record.\n\nPronovost was born June 15, 1930, in the community of Lac-à-la-Tortue, Quebec. He was the third of 12 children, nine boys and three girls, of Leo and Juliette Pronovost. Leo was a construction worker who worked with aluminum and occasionally moved around; the family settled in the nearby town of Shawinigan Falls by the time Marcel was five years old.\n\nCross-country skiing was Pronovost's first sport, but he quickly developed a passion for hockey. He began skating at the age of three years and was playing competitive hockey by age five. Pronovost played and studied at College Immaculate Conception Superior School (CIC) in Shawinigan Falls where he played centre and left wing. His team won the Quebec provincial midget hockey championship in 1944–45. It was with CIC that Pronovost was discovered by National Hockey League (NHL) scouts. The Detroit Red Wings sent scout Marcel Côté to sign Larry and John Wilson at a Quebec tournament. Larry suggested that Côté observe Pronovost. As a result, he was also signed to the Red Wings.\n\nHockey was a significant part of life for the Pronovosts, and three of Marcel's brothers followed him to the NHL: Claude was a goaltender who played three games and Jean played nearly 1,000 at forward. In his autobiography, \"A Life in Hockey\", Marcel argued that the NHL having only six teams until 1967 prevented some of his other brothers from reaching the league.\n\nThe Red Wings placed Pronovost with the Windsor Spitfires, one of their junior teams in the Ontario Hockey Association (OHA), beginning in 1947–48. The Spitfires were a dominant team that season; Windsor finished with the best record in the OHA but lost the championship series to the Barrie Flyers after Detroit was forced to recall Windsor's goaltender, Terry Sawchuk, to one of their minor league teams. Pronovost believed that the Spitfires would have won the league title and gone on to play for the Memorial Cup if they hadn't lost Sawchuk. At the same time, Pronovost also played for the Detroit Auto Club team in the International Hockey League (IHL). At the time an amateur league, the IHL based most of its teams in Detroit or Windsor and the majority of players were affiliated with the Red Wings. Playing in the two leagues prepared Pronovost for the rigors of an NHL schedule. He played 52 games that season, and 51 in 1948–49. Pronovost permanently moved to defence during his tenure with the Spitfires.\n\nUpon starting his professional career in 1949–50, the Red Wings assigned Pronovost to the Omaha Knights of the United States Hockey League (USHL). He appeared in 69 games for the Knights and scored 13 goals and 52 points. Pronovost set a scoring record by a defenceman and was named the USHL's rookie of the year. He was also named to the First All-Star Team. At 19 years of age, Pronovost was compared to legendary defenceman Eddie Shore and Detroit coach Jack Adams described him as being \"one of those guys who comes around once every 20 years\".\n\nThe Red Wings brought Pronovost to Detroit at the conclusion of his USHL season. Gordie Howe had suffered a serious injury early in Detroit's 1950 Stanley Cup Playoff series against the Toronto Maple Leafs forcing the team to move Red Kelly to forward and insert Pronovost into the lineup at defence. He made his NHL debut on April 6, 1950, in the fifth game of the series. Pronovost appeared in nine playoff games as Detroit eliminated the Maple Leafs then came back from a 3–2 series deficit in the final and defeated the New York Rangers in the final two games of the series to win the Stanley Cup.\n\nThe NHL All-Star Game format of the time had the defending champion face a team of the all-stars formed from the remaining teams. The 1950 All-Star Game was played prior to the start of the 1950–51 season and Pronovost played in the contest, a 7–1 victory by Detroit. It was the first of 11 All-Star Games which he would ultimately play. The Red Wings had been promoting Pronovost as their next great defenceman, but he suffered a broken cheekbone and a cracked bone in his ankle in separate incidents during the pre-season. Not wanting to let the team down, he tried to play through the injuries but his performance suffered and by December 1950, the Red Wings demoted him to their American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate, the Indianapolis Capitals. Pronovost scored 32 points in 34 games with Indianapolis before the Red Wings recalled him back to the NHL. Though he played only a half season with the Capitals, he was named an AHL Second Team All-Star on defence. He finished with seven points in 37 games with Detroit and scored his first NHL goal on February 19, 1951, on goaltender Jack Gelineau. It was a last-minute goal that salvaged a 2–2 tie against the Boston Bruins.\n\nThe Red Wings again won the Stanley Cup in 1951–52, defeating the Montreal Canadiens in the final. It was Pronovost's first full season in the NHL; he appeared in 69 regular season games and eight more in the playoffs. The Red Wings set a record that post-season by winning all eight games played – four by shutout – and the series spawned the Legend of the Octopus. When an octopus was thrown onto the ice near the end of the clinching game (the eight tentacles meant to represent the eight wins required to win the Stanley Cup at that time), Pronovost was the only player willing to pick it up and remove it. He won his third and fourth Stanley Cup championships in 1953–54 and 1954–55 and played his second and third All-Star Games after each victory. Pronovost's 34 points in 1954–55 were the most of his NHL career. He also played in an ill-fated game in Montreal on March 17, 1955, in which fan anger over the NHL's suspension of Maurice Richard precipitated the Richard Riot. Awarded a forfeit victory in that game, Pronovost and the Red Wings won their final game of the season, also against Montreal, to clinch top spot in the NHL standings for a record seventh consecutive season.\n\nBy the 1956–57 season, Pronovost had gained recognition as being one of the NHL's top defencemen. The Red Wings named him an alternate captain of the team, a position he held until 1965. He was named to represent the NHL All-Stars at the 1957 All-Star Game, the first of five consecutive appearances, and was named to the post-season Second All-Star Team in both 1958 and 1959. Pronovost scored a career high 11 goals in 1958–59 and was named to the First All-Star Team in both 1959–60 and 1960–61. The Canadiens even fêted him by holding \"Marcel Pronovost Night\" on March 5, 1960, in which he received gifts and was cheered by the opposing Montreal crowd. It was reported as being the first time in NHL history that a team honoured an opposing player.\n\nThe Red Wings were unable to duplicate the championship success Pronovost enjoyed in his first six seasons. In 1959, Detroit missed the post-season entirely and Pronovost worked those playoffs as an analyst for \"Hockey Night in Canada\". The team reached, and lost, the Stanley Cup Finals to Chicago in 1961. Pronovost suffered a broken bone in his ankle that caused him to miss two games of the series and play the remainder in significant pain. Toronto owner Harold Ballard argued that Detroit would have won the series if Pronovost had been healthy. Detroit also lost in the 1963 and 1964 finals, which marked eight appearances in the final for Pronovost. He is also one of four players in NHL history to play in four game 7's in a Stanley Cup Final.\n\nPronovost's tenure with the Red Wings came to an end on May 20, 1965, as he was involved in an eight-player trade. He was dealt to the Maple Leafs, along with Aut Erickson, Larry Jeffrey, Eddie Joyal and Lowell MacDonald in exchange for Andy Bathgate, Billy Harris and Gary Jarrett. Pronovost, who heard about the trade on the radio before being contacted by either team, was shocked at being dealt away from an organization he played with for 18 years. He adjusted quickly and reached a career milestone early in the 1965–66 season. Pronovost became the seventh player in NHL history to play 1,000 regular season games in a November 28, 1965, contest against the Rangers. He also missed 16 games after suffering strained knee ligaments after colliding with Earl Ingarfield. It was the first of several knee problems that would affect the remainder of Pronovost's career; he also missed games early in the 1966–67 season due to strained knee ligaments.\n\nThe 1966–67 Maple Leafs had the oldest roster in the NHL and became known as the \"Over the Hill Gang\". The team lost ten games in a row at one point, but qualified for the 1967 Stanley Cup playoffs in third place. The Maple Leafs were considered underdogs against both the Chicago Black Hawks in the semi-final and the Canadiens in the final. So much so that organizers at Expo 67 in Montreal built a presentation space for the Stanley Cup in anticipation of victory before the series began. \"Sports Illustrated\" writer Pete Axthelm called Pronovost the best defenceman of the finals; he and defensive partner Larry Hillman were on the ice for only one goal against at even strength during the entire post-season. Pronovost also scored a key shorthanded goal in a 4–1 win in the fifth game of the series, and Toronto clinched the Stanley Cup with a 3–1 win at home in game six. It was also his 134th, and ultimately final, playoff game. At the time, only Red Kelly (164) and Gordie Howe (150) had appeared in more.\n\nPronovost appeared in 70 games for the Maple Leafs in 1967–68 and recorded 20 points, but he was held to only 34 games the following season. He missed the majority of the season to injury, and it was at that time that Maple Leafs president Conn Stafford Smythe suggested Pronovost should be installed as a player-coach of one of Toronto's minor league affiliates. He was offered a position with the Tulsa Oilers of the Central Hockey League (CHL), and though initially reluctant to go, the Oilers organization was able to convince Pronovost and his wife to move to the Oklahoma city. He played and coached for much of the year in Tulsa, but was briefly recalled back to Toronto part way through the 1969–70 NHL season. He recorded one assist in seven games with Toronto, the last of his NHL career.\n\nSupported by Tulsa's general manager Ray Miron, who helped him behind the bench, Pronovost appeared in 53 games for the Oilers in 1969–70 and coached the team to a record. He ended his playing career after appearing in 17 games for Tulsa in 1970–71, and coached two additional seasons for the Oilers before taking his first major league job. The Chicago Cougars of the newly founded World Hockey Association (WHA) announced Pronovost had signed a two-year contract to become the franchise's first head coach on July 6, 1972. He lasted only one season in Chicago before being fired as the Cougars posted a 26–50–2 record in 1972–73.\n\nPronovost returned to coaching in 1975 as he was hired mid-season to take over the Hull Festivals of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL). He remained with Hull, who were renamed the Olympiques, for two seasons before he hired to coach the Buffalo Sabres for the 1977–78 NHL season. Pronovost was reluctant to take the job, and did so only following the encouragement of Hull general manager Norm Baril.\n\nAmong the highlights for Pronovost and the Sabres in his first season was Buffalo's first regular season victory in franchise history against the Philadelphia Flyers in Philadelphia, on November 10, 1977. Buffalo had 15 losses and two ties in its previous 17 visits (not counting the 1975 Stanley Cup Finals, in which the Sabres won two and lost four). The Sabres finished with a 44–17–19 record and finished second in the Adams Division. They defeated the Rangers in the first round of the playoffs before being eliminated by Philadelphia. However, after the Sabres recorded only eight wins in their first 24 games in 1978–79, the organization fired Pronovost along with general manager Punch Imlach. Pronovost returned to Hull almost immediately, but left the team again in 1979 to become an assistant to head coach Bobby Kromm in Detroit. When Kromm was fired late in the 1979–80 season, general manager Ted Lindsay and Pronovost took over as the team's coaches. Lindsay was the official coach of the team for the final nine games of the season, but Pronovost worked behind the bench as the Red Wings won only two contests and lost seven. Pronovost remained with Detroit as Lindsay's assistant to begin the 1980–81 season, but both were dismissed after Detroit began with a 3–14–3 record.\n\nReturning again to junior hockey, Pronovost was hired as the coach of the Ontario Hockey League's Windsor Spitfires. The team went 22–44–4 in 1981–82, while Pronovost described the following season as being a \"disaster\". He was given a ten-game suspension for verbally harassing the officials and continuing to coach from the stands after being ejected from a game and was dismissed as Windsor's coach after the team won only two of its first 15 games. Pronovost's final season as a coach came in 1984–85 when he led the junior C Belle River Canadiens to the franchise's first league title and a Clarence Schmalz Cup win as Ontario provincial champions.\n\nPronovost turned to scouting in 1985 when he joined the NHL Central Scouting Bureau. He already had some experience with the role as one of his duties as coach in Tulsa included searching for talent to improve his team. Pronovost spent five years traveling across North America for the Scouting Bureau. In 1990, he joined the New Jersey Devils as one of the team's scouts. The 2013–14 NHL season was his 24th with the franchise, during which Pronovost has been a member of three Stanley Cup champions, in 1995, 2000 and 2003. New Jersey's goaltender for all three championships was Martin Brodeur, whom Pronovost helped convince the Devils to select with their first pick in the 1990 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nKnown as an offensive defenceman at the outset of his NHL career, Pronovost played an aggressive rushing style that led Red Wings fans to call him \"Detroit's own Flying Frenchman\". He also established a reputation as a physical player who rarely missed time to serious injury. He overcame numerous injuries, including a cracked vertebrae suffered in 1954. Among his other injuries, he suffered a broken jaw, broke his wrist twice, separated his shoulder and broke his nose 14 times. By age 32, he had required over 200 stitches to close various cuts and lacerations. Pronovost viewed the injuries as part of the game: \"My game is a contact sport. It's a game of men. I expected to get bounced and get my lumps. I also expected to play in every single game.\"\n\n2012 marked Pronovost's 65th year in professional hockey, tying King Clancy for the longest such tenure by anyone in NHL history. His name has been inscribed on the Stanley Cup eight times; five as a player and three as a scout. The 53-year span between his first victory in 1950 and most recent in 2003 is a record for the trophy. He published an autobiography in 2012 titled \"A Life in Hockey\" that documents his career in the sport.\n\nIn 1978, Pronovost was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. He has also been inducted into the Windsor and Essex County Sports Hall of Fame (1995), had his uniform number 4 honoured by the Windsor Spitfires in 2005 and in 2012 was inducted into the Michigan Sports Hall of Fame. The Detroit Red Wings recognized Pronovost's contribution to their organization in 2009 by presenting him with a championship ring from their 2009 title season.\n\nPronovost adopted Windsor as his home having played or worked close to the city for most of his career. He earned a degree in electrical engineering, and during hockey off-seasons drove a truck and did sales for Molson. He met his first wife, Cindy, while playing with her brother on a softball team in Shawinigan. They were married in 1951 and have three children: Michel (Marie), Brigitte and Leo (Tina). Also three grandchildren, Tannis, Melissa and Ryan. Cindy died of cancer in 1993. Pronovost married his second wife, Eva, in 1994, and he fought his own battle with bladder cancer in 2012. Pronovost died on April 26, 2015, after a brief illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996257", "title": "Junín Department", "text": "Junín Department\n\nJunín Department may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1996260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996260", "title": "Michael Jarrell", "text": "Michael Jarrell\n\nMichael Jarrell (born 8 October 1958) is a Swiss composer. Born in Geneva, he studied at the Conservatoire there, and later with Klaus Huber in Freiburg.\n\nHis works span many genres. In 1982, he won first prizes for composition and went on to win many more, including the Acanthes Prize in 1983, the Beethovenpreis awarded by Bonn in 1986, the Marescotti Prize (1986), both the Gaudeamus International Composers Award and the Henriette Renié prizes in 1988, and the Siemens-Förderpreis (1990). From 1986 to 1988, he was resident at the Cité des Arts in Paris, taking part in the computer music course at IRCAM. His next residency was at the Villa Médici (1988–89), home of the French Academy in Rome, followed by membership of the Istituto Svizzero di Roma in 1989-90, after which he became composer-in-residence at the Orchestre de Lyon (October 1991-June 1993). In 1993, Michael Jarrell was appointed professor of composition at the University of Music and Performing Arts, Vienna.\n\nIn 1990, he established some of the bases of Computer Music. In 2016, the composition problem he proposed was successfully solved using a Constraint programming.\n\nIn 1996, he became composer-in-residence at Lucerne Festival, while the 2000 Musica Nova Helsinki festival was dedicated to him. In 2001, the Salzburg Festival commissioned a piano concerto entitled \"Abschied\". In the same year Michael Jarrell was made a Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters. In 2004, he is named professor of composition at the higher Academy of Geneva.\n\nHe is regarded throughout Europe as one of the most important Swiss composers of his generation. He opened his first opera in the United States at Carnegie Hall in New York in March 2006. His \"spoken opera\" \"Cassandre\", which is based on Christa Wolf's novel \"Cassandra\", was performed at Ojai Festival, CA, June 2008. It was composed in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996262", "title": "Bob Pulford", "text": "Bob Pulford\n\nRobert Jesse Pulford (born March 31, 1936) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey forward who played for the Toronto Maple Leafs and Los Angeles Kings in the National Hockey League. He later served as head coach of the Kings before spending 30 years with the Chicago Blackhawks as a coach or executive.\n\nPulford and his family lived on King St. in Weston, Ontario from 1940 to 1950, and he attended Memorial School prior to the family move to rural Ontario.\n\nPulford played junior hockey in Weston, then senior hockey for the Marlboros.\n\nPulford played junior hockey for the Toronto Marlboros for three seasons from 1953 to 1956, winning two Memorial Cups under coach Turk Broda. He moved up to the Maple Leafs for the 1956–57 season and remained with the team for 14 seasons wearing jersey number 20. Pulford was an important member of the Leaf teams that won four Stanley Cups in 1962–1964 and 1967.\n\nWith the series tied 1–1, Pulford scored the overtime game winner in game 3 of the 1967 Stanley Cup Finals against the Montreal Canadiens. The Montreal goalie was Rogie Vachon. Pulford later coached Vachon in Los Angeles as the Kings rose to prominence in the mid-1970s.\n\nThe Leafs traded him to the Los Angeles Kings on September 3, 1970, where he played two seasons and retired as a player in 1972.\n\nIn 1967 Pulford was elected the first president of the National Hockey League Players' Association.\n\nImmediately after retiring as a player, Pulford became head coach of the Kings for the 1972–73 season and led the team for five years before becoming coach and general manager of the Chicago Blackhawks in 1977. As coach of the Kings, he helped Los Angeles go from being one of the worst defensive and penalty killing teams in the NHL to one of the best. He guided the Kings to their first playoff appearance in five years in 1974, and won the Jack Adams Award as coach of the year in the NHL in 1975. That season, the Kings amassed 105 points, still a club record through 2013. He also led the Kings to their first playoff series wins since 1969 when they defeated the Atlanta Flames in the first round of both the 1976 and 1977 NHL playoffs. Pulford left the Kings after the 1976–77 season after constant feuding with then owner Jack Kent Cooke. Pulford wanted to become General Manager as well as coach, or at least have a bigger role in player personnel decisions. Cooke however, often meddled in player personnel matters, and in the mid-1970s, reverted to his old habits of trading promising young players and draft picks for veteran, past their prime former stars.\n\nHe served as coach for the Blackhawks on three separate occasions from 1977 to 1987. He was promoted to senior vice president in 1990, but took on the general manager's duties again from 1992 to 1997, from 1999 to 2000, and from 2003 to 2005. During his third stint as general manager, Pulford nominally doubled as head coach, demoting Lorne Molleken to an assistant. However, Molleken remained the team's main operator on the bench, with Pulford as more or less a senior consultant.\n\nIn seven seasons and 426 games as Hawks coach over three stints, Pulford won 182, lost 176, and tied 68. At the time he left the bench for good, only Billy Reay had won more regular season games for the Hawks. Pulford is now third, behind Reay and Joel Quenneville for most regular season games won as Hawk coach.\n\nHe won the Jack Adams Award for best coach in the NHL in 1975. Pulford was also honoured to be named head coach of Team USA during the 1976 Canada Cup tournament.\n\nHe was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1991.\n\nOn October 11, 2007, Pulford was named an officer with the Wirtz Corporation, parent company of the Blackhawks, and is no longer part of the day-to-day management of the Blackhawks.\n\nHis son-in-law is Dean Lombardi, a former assistant general manager for the Minnesota North Stars, GM of the San Jose Sharks, and president and general manager of the Los Angeles Kings. He is currently a senior advisor in the Philadelphia Flyers organization.\n\nIn 2012, Pulford was honoured by the Kings in a pregame ceremony; the team wore their purple and gold 1970s throwback uniforms in the game following this ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996276", "title": "Efrim Menuck", "text": "Efrim Menuck\n\nEfrim Manuel Menuck (born August 23, 1970) is a Canadian musician involved with a number of Montreal-based bands, most notably Godspeed You! Black Emperor and Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra. Menuck is also a frequent record producer and engineer, working with musicians from Montreal and abroad.\n\nMenuck was born in Montreal but grew up primarily in Toronto. He moved back to Montreal when he was in his early 20s. His father was a doctor and his mother was a nurse. He attended Hebrew day school from first to ninth grade. After dropping out of high school in 11th grade, Menuck was homeless and jobless and had a nervous breakdown at age 20. Menuck has mentioned that as a teenager he once lived in a flooded basement with \"two other lost kids\" and \"a litter of feral kittens, and that all were unfed\". In 1994, Mauro Pezzente, Mike Moya, and Menuck founded Godspeed You! Black Emperor, an influential instrumental rock ensemble. Their first album, \"All Lights Fucked on the Hairy Amp Drooling\", is the earliest recorded document of Godspeed You! Black Emperor. Self-released in December 1994, the cassette was dubbed only 33 times. It was not until the release of their official debut album, \"F♯ A♯ ∞\", that they began receiving recognition for their work.\n\nMenuck is also responsible for the creation of Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra & Tra-La-La Band, along with fellow Godspeed You! Black Emperor alumni Sophie Trudeau and Thierry Amar. Originally conceived as an aid to Menuck in learning how to score music, the group has since blossomed into a regular collaboration.\n\nWhen \"He Has Left Us Alone but Shafts of Light Sometimes Grace the Corner of Our Rooms...\" debuted, it was notable in that it included vocals by Menuck and his band mates; this was in contrast with the taciturn Godspeed You! Black Emperor. However, Constellation states on the biography for Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra & Tra-La-La Band that Menuck did in fact sing vocals before the creation of the group on a \"rare 1996 GYBE cassette release\".\n\nWhile the music of Godspeed You! Black Emperor was marked by its sampling and symphonic development, Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra & Tra-La-La Band more regularly incorporated lyrics as well. Menuck confessed to being at odds with the role of the singer in bands, noting that lyricists are often featured as the main attraction at the expense of their bands. He also felt uncomfortable with his own singing, but has since overcome that feeling. Menuck often shares vocal duty with all the other members of A Silver Mt. Zion.\n\nThe lyrical style of Menuck is best described as poetic. The topics of his lyrics range from the fear and loneliness experienced while driving alone on an American highway at night to urban decay, and even a tribute to a deceased pet dog. Indeed, \"\"This Is Our Punk-Rock,\" Thee Rusted Satellites Gather + Sing,\" the third album by Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra & Tra-La-La Band, was essentially created as a requiem for open and abandoned spaces in Montreal, as well as for similar loss and decay around the world, due to either urban development or military action. Menuck is also known for integrating politics into song titles, lyrics, and album cover art for A Silver Mt. Zion. As such, references to anarchism and anti-war viewpoints are often expressed. (In an April 2014 interview with \"The Rumpus\", Menuck identified as an anarchist.)\nWhile Menuck sometimes utilizes religious imagery in the lyrics and albums of Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra & Tra-La-La Band, and described the recording sessions of \"He Has Left Us Alone but Shafts of Light Sometimes Grace the Corner of Our Rooms...\" a \"Jewish experience\", he does not consider himself an adherent of the Jewish faith, quoted in one source as saying \"I don't go to synagogue, I don't believe that there's a God in heaven, I don't believe in any of that stuff\". With the title of \"Born into Trouble as the Sparks Fly Upward\", the band references the Book of Job Ch. 5:7. Menuck has been an outspoken critic of the Israeli government; the liner notes for \"Yanqui U.X.O.\" criticize Ariel Sharon's 2000 visit to the Temple Mount.\n\nAlong with Howard Bilerman, Radwan Moumneh and Thierry Amar, Menuck owns and operates the Hotel2Tango, a loft space that acts as a practice area, recording studio, and one of the very few non-commercial venues in Montreal capable of accommodating live concerts. The studio was originally confined to the recordings of friends and the bands of the people who own it, but has of late opened its doors to a multitude of other bands.\n\nIn 2006, Menuck, with Sophie Trudeau and Thierry Amar, assisted in the recording of Carla Bozulich's first release for Constellation Records, \"Evangelista\".\n\nOn August 5, 2009, Silver Mt. Zion violinist Jessica Moss gave birth to her and Menuck's baby. The couple took him on tour with Vic Chesnutt. Menuck's first official solo project was released via Constellation Records on May 24, 2011. The album is entitled \"Plays \"High Gospel\"\". His second solo album titled Pissing Stars was released on February 2, 2018. Pissing Stars was also released on Constellation Records.\n\nThe following is a list of musical equipment used by Efrim Menuck.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMenuck also contributes small samples and guitar work to various artists for whom he produces; these are not listed here.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996277", "title": "Are You Shpongled?", "text": "Are You Shpongled?\n\nAre You Shpongled? is the first of six albums released by Shpongle. \"Are You Shpongled?\" sold in excess of 30,000 copies. A remastered version of \"Are You Shpongled?\" was released on 30 June 2017, along with a limited edition super-deluxe triple vinyl set.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996278", "title": "Petr Klíma", "text": "Petr Klíma\n\nPetr Klíma (born December 23, 1964) is a Czech former professional ice hockey forward. He played in the National Hockey League for the Detroit Red Wings, Edmonton Oilers, Tampa Bay Lightning, Los Angeles Kings, and the Pittsburgh Penguins. He also played part of a season with the IHL Cleveland Lumberjacks and two seasons in the Czech leagues\n\nBy the time Klíma was 20 years old, officials on his Dukla Jihlava team knew that the Detroit Red Wings were eager to bring the young star to the NHL. Rumors were rampant that the Wings were trying to pay off Czechoslovakian authorities to get Klíma out of his native country, but despite all the hype that surrounded him, Czech hockey authorities made no real effort to clamp down and prevent Klíma from traveling in Europe. As a result, Klíma managed to defect to North America during the summer of 1985, making him the first Czech player to defect directly to a U.S.-based team rather than one of the NHL's Canadian teams which had smuggled several Czechs and Slovaks out of Europe in the past.\n\nKlima's bold move was entirely orchestrated by the Red Wings, who knew that Klíma was eager to play in North America. After his defection was planned, Klíma ditched his Czech national teammates during a team meal at the Czech training camp in Nußdorf am Inn, West Germany, to join Wings executive vice-president Jim Lites and assistant coach Nick Polano at an undisclosed location on Aug 18, 1985. Several days were then spent in the effort to bring Klíma to North America, after Lites and Polano, who had flown to Germany on Aug 15, 1985, kept Klíma under wraps in Nussdorf and other cities to avoid pursuit by Czech police. Polano stayed with Klíma as Lites and other Wings officials arranged for him to gain refugee status to enter the United States. The Wings were assisted by U.S. attorney general Edwin Meese and deputy attorney general Lowell Jensen in expediting the political-asylum process.\n\nIt was later revealed that plans to get Klíma out of Czechoslovakia reached back as far as the 1984 World Junior Championships, held in Sweden, when Detroit scout Alex Davidson secretly met with Klíma in December 1983. Klíma told Davidson he would not consider defecting until he had completed his military duty (so as not to be labeled a deserter) in 1985. Less than a year later, at the 1984 Canada Cup, Klíma began talking to the Wings about the possibility of coming to the NHL after the 1984–85 season. During that time, while in Vancouver with the Czechoslovak team, he even signed a secret multiyear contract with the Red Wings. Polano had brought the contract to Klíma without Czechoslovak officials realizing it. Klíma, who spoke no English when he finally arrived in Detroit on Sep 22, 1985, was fortunate that the Red Wings also managed to bring his girlfriend to the U.S. In honor of his successful defection, a grateful and overjoyed Klíma requested sweater number 85 and wore it throughout his NHL career as a reminder of the year in which he gained freedom. Klíma was drafted in the fifth round (88th overall) of the 1983 NHL Entry Draft by the Red Wings. He played his junior hockey with the CHZ Litvinov team.\n\nKlíma played four full seasons with the Wings (from 1985 until 1989) before being traded to the Oilers (along with Joe Murphy and Adam Graves) during the 1989–90 season. He scored the game-winning goal in the longest Stanley Cup Finals game in history, the third overtime of Game 1 of the 1990 Finals against Andy Moog of the Boston Bruins despite having not played at all in the third period, nor the first two OT periods. He played for the Oilers until 1993, winning the Stanley Cup in 1990. In 1993 Klima was acquired by the Lightning. Klíma remained with the Lightning for three seasons, until 1996. He split the 1996–97 season between the Lumberjacks, Kings, Penguins, and Oilers, and was released in 1997. He played in the DEL in 1997–98, then attempted a comeback with the Red Wings in 1998. He retired from the NHL in 1999, and then played from 2001–2003 in the Czech leagues before retiring for good. He played for Litvinov and captained those 2 years. Asked which jersey number he wanted to wear, Klíma chose the number 85 in recognition of the year of his defection and his first year with the NHL.\n\nAlthough he was one of Detroit's bigger stars in the late 1980s, Petr Klíma was also a problem for the Red Wings management. That situation came to a head during training camp on Sep 23, 1988, when Detroit suspended Klíma indefinitely, along with Bob Probert, for breaking team rules. At the time of the suspension, the Wings said they would trade Klíma, although this never happened. The team also said it would not take Klíma back until he had his drinking under control. As a result, Klíma missed the start of the 1988–89 season before being reinstated on Oct. 13, 1988, and sent to Adirondack (AHL) on Oct 16, 1988. He finally made his 1988–89 NHL regular-season debut during Detroit's Nov 6, 1988, game vs. Edmonton where he posted an assist. At his first practice with the team, on Nov 5, 1988, Klíma offered a heartfelt apology to his Wings teammates for his earlier behavior, much of which was alcohol-related. During his months back, Klíma roomed with Probert, who was also trying to cope with his drinking and drug habits. Klíma managed to stay clean, but Probert's substance abuse and subsequent issues would continue for several years.\n\nKlíma's sons are also professional ice hockey players. His twin sons Kelly and Kevin signed one-year contracts with the Tucson Roadrunners of the American Hockey League.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996284", "title": "Harvey Pulford", "text": "Harvey Pulford\n\nErnest Harvey Pulford (April 22, 1875 – October 31, 1940) was a Canadian athlete at the turn of the twentieth century, winning national championships in ice hockey, lacrosse, football, boxing, paddling and rowing. A highly regarded defenceman with the Ottawa Hockey Club, where he was known for being a large and solid player who was excellent at checking opponents. With Ottawa he won the Stanley Cup four times, and also won championships or tournaments in every sport in which he played. When the Hockey Hall of Fame was founded in 1945, Pulford was one of the original nine inductees.\n\nBorn in Toronto, Harvey Pulford moved to Ottawa at an early age. He married Annis Mae Field of Brockville, Ontario; she died giving birth to a son, Harvey F. Pulford, on December 7, 1904. Pulford later married Jennie Davidson. Pulford worked for the Imperial Life Assurance Company of Canada from 1921 until his death.\n\nPulford died October 31, 1940 and was buried in Ottawa's Beechwood Cemetery. Jennie, his widow lived until April 29, 1947, and is also buried at Beechwood. The younger Harvey Pulford became an employee of the Canadian Pacific Railway and eventually moved to Chicago.\n\nPulford joined the Ottawa Hockey Club in 1893, playing as a defenceman. In his first season, Pulford played in the first Stanley Cup playoff games, against the Montreal Hockey Club. Pulford played for Ottawa until 1908, the year that Ottawa became professional. Pulford was captain of the Ottawa Hockey Club during the \"Ottawa Silver Seven\" era when the club won the Stanley Cup in March 1903 and held it until March 1906. After retirement from playing, Pulford continued in the game as a referee. In 1933, Pulford was given an option to buy the Ottawa club, by then known as the Senators, and move it to Baltimore, Maryland, but the purchase did not go through.\n\nPulford was outstanding in several sports. He was a backfielder for the Ottawa Football Club football team from 1893 to 1909, winning national championships in 1898, 1899, 1900, and 1902. He also served as captain of the team. He played lacrosse for the Ottawa Lacrosse Club from 1893 to 1900, winning four national titles. As a boxer, he won Eastern Canadian light heavyweight and heavyweight titles between 1896 and 1898.\n\nHe was hesitant to start the 1907 season as he wanted to row the following summer and was concerned about playing professionals on other hockey teams, which would not allow him to compete in other sports as the rules stated. Despite members of his rowing club telling him to stay out of hockey, Pulford wanted to play for the Stanley Cup and rejoined the Senators a few days before the season started.\n\nPulford was an excellent rower, Britannia Boating Club winning national and U.S. championships and leading his crew to the semifinals of the 1911 Henley Royal Regatta.\n\nHe was a member of the 1910 Ottawa Rowing Club eight that defeated every one of its opponents in 1910, earning the Canadian and North American championships. Pulford later became president of the Ottawa Rowing Club. He served as president of Ottawa Rowing Club until resigning in 1936.\n\nPulford resigned as a rower with the Ottawa Rowing Club.\n\nIn 1916, Pulford was a candidate to succeed Emmett Quinn as president of the National Hockey Association (NHA), though he lost to Frank Robinson. He was nominated by Eddie Livingstone to replace Frank Calder as president of the by-then defunct NHA in a league meeting on September 28, 1918, but Calder would retain his position.\n\nPulford remained active in sports later in life. In his late 40s, he won the Ottawa squash championship and held it from 1922 to 1924.\n\nPulford was a charter member of the Hockey Hall of Fame (1945) and the Ottawa Sports Hall of Fame (1966). He was, with Russell Bowie, Harry Westwick and Alf Smith, one of the final active hockey players who had played in the 19th century. He was also inducted into the Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 2003 and into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1996294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996294", "title": "Robert L. Stevens", "text": "Robert L. Stevens\n\nColonel Robert Livingston Stevens (October 18, 1787 – April 20, 1856) was an American inventor and steamship builder who served as president of the Camden and Amboy Railroad in the 1830s and 1840s.\n\nStevens was born in Hoboken, New Jersey on October 18, 1787. He was the second son of thirteen children born to Rachel (née Cox) Stevens and Colonel John Stevens III. His siblings included older brother John Cox Stevens, the first commodore of the New York Yacht Club, and younger brother Edwin Augustus Stevens, who founded the Stevens Institute of Technology.\n\nHis paternal grandparents were John Stevens Jr., a prominent New Jersey politician who served as a delegate to the Continental Congress, and Elizabeth (née Alexander) Stevens, who was the daughter of James Alexander, the Attorney General of New Jersey, and Mary (née Spratt) Provoost Alexander, a prominent merchant. His aunt Mary Stevens married Robert R. Livingston, the first Chancellor of the State of New York.\n\nIn 1807, the Stevens and their father built the \"Phœnix\", a steamboat which became the first to navigate the ocean successfully when she traveled from New York City to the Delaware River in 1809. The \"Phœnix\" could not operate in the harbor at New York City because Robert Fulton and his partner Robert Livingston, the U.S. Minister to France, had obtained a monopoly there.\n\nRobert Stevens applied the \"wave line\", concave waterlines on a steamboat hull, in 1808, as well as other improvements to shipbuilding. He and his brother, James, involved with the passenger steamship business on the Hudson River in 1834, and both were members of the Hudson River Steamboat Association, a cartel which sought a monopoly on passenger traffic between New York City and Albany.\n\nStevens was president of the Camden and Amboy Railroad (C&A) in the 1830s and 1840s. When the \"John Bull\" steam locomotive arrived on the C&A property, it was originally named \"Stevens\" in his honor. Although his father is occasionally credited with the invention of the flanged T rail for railways, Robert Stevens at 42 is considered to have been the inventor of the first all-iron rail construction of the Camden & Amboy. Before 1831, the rails of all previous American railroads were strap iron rails made of wood with a metal strap applied to the wood. One of the two men had traveled to England to purchase the new rails since there was no rolling mill in the United States that was capable of producing the rails. The flat bottomed rail profile is used by railways of every nation. It replaced the cast-iron edge rails that had been introduced in England in 1789, which were made without flanges; instead, flanges were placed on the wheels. (The flanged T rail was introduced in England in 1836 by engineer Charles B. Vignoles (1793-1875), therefore the term \"Vignoles rails\" came into use in Europe).\n\nHe invented a percussion shell, the rights to which he sold to the government. In 1842, he was commissioned by the government to build the first ironclad warship ever constructed, but he died without ever completing it.\n\nStevens, who never married, died in Hoboken on April 20, 1856.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996299", "title": "Gengenbach", "text": "Gengenbach\n\nGengenbach is a town in the district of Ortenau, Baden-Württemberg, Germany and a popular tourist destination on the western edge of the Black Forest with about 11,000 inhabitants.\nGengenbach is well known for its traditional Alemanic \"fasnacht\", (\"Fasend\"), a kind of historically influenced celebration of carnival, where tradition is followed, from wearing costumes with carved wooden masks to clapping with a \"Ratsche\" (a traditional-classic wooden \"sound-producing\" toy). Gengenbach also boasts a picturesque, traditional, medieval town centre (\"Altstadt\"). The traditional town Gengenbach is the proud owner of the world's biggest advent calendar. The 24 windows of the 18th century town hall represent the 24 \"windows\" of an Advent calendar. The town also hosts a department of The Graduate School of Offenburg University of Applied Sciences, part of the University of Applied Sciences Offenburg.\nThe nearest cities in the region are Offenburg, Freiburg, Karlsruhe, Baden-Baden and Strasbourg/France. Gengenbach is twinned with the town of Obernai, Alsace, France. \n\nIn the 2005 film version of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Gengenbach was inaccurately referred to as Düsseldorf, the place where the character Augustus Gloop becomes the first founder of Wonka's Golden ticket.\n\nGengenbach was founded in the 13th century and was an Imperial Free City from 1360 until the Treaty of Lunéville in 1801. During the closing stages of the 1672-1678 Franco-Dutch War in July 1678, it was the site of a French victory over the Imperialists; it was badly damaged in 1689 by retreating French forces in the 1688-1697 Nine Years War.\n\nGengenbach is the start point of Gengenbach–Alpirsbach Black Forest Trail and situated at the Kinzigtäler Jakobusweg (a pilgrim route) as well as the Kandelhöhenweg (a hiking path), passing by many landmarks. Furthermore, the city is located at the German Fachwerkstraße.\n\nThe town was the location of Gengenbach Abbey, founded in the 8th century; its associated church, the Stadtkirche Sankt Marien, was rebuilt after 1689 and contains a number of 18th century frescoes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996301", "title": "Certificate in Education", "text": "Certificate in Education\n\nThe Certificate in Education (Cert Ed) is a professional qualification for teachers in the United Kingdom. There have been two incarnations of the Cert Ed over the years.\n\nThe current Cert Ed is a non-compulsory qualification offering training in teaching at further or higher education level.\n\nThose wanting to teach at primary or secondary education must undertake either a Bachelor of Education or a Bachelor of Arts degree, such as a BA (Hons) Primary Education, or Bachelor of Science (in a relevant Education course) degree or a non-education degree followed by a postgraduate qualification in teaching, such as the PGCE.\n\nIn 2007, many colleges and Universities stopped teaching the Cert Ed with the advent of the newer Teaching Awards, the Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector (DTLLS) replacing the full Cert Ed.\n\nThe old Cert Ed was a qualification that was required to become teachers. The Cert Ed course took three years to complete and was studied for at a College of Education under the control of the local or nearest university. The Cert Ed was discontinued in the early 1980s when the law required all trainee teachers to train via graduate or post-graduate courses. The Cert Ed did allow some students that reached the qualifying level to complete a fourth year for a B. Ed degree(Hons).\n\n"}
{"id": "1996303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996303", "title": "Bill Quackenbush", "text": "Bill Quackenbush\n\nHubert George \"Bill\" Quackenbush (March 2, 1922 – September 12, 1999) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played for the Boston Bruins and Detroit Red Wings in the National Hockey League. During his 14-year career, he was the first defenceman to win the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy. He won the award after playing the entire 1948–49 season without recording a penalty. The penalty-less season was part of a total of 131 consecutive games he played without being assessed a penalty. Quackenbush, considered to be an elite offensive defenceman during his career, was named to the NHL All-Star Team five times, played in eight NHL All-Star games and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1976.\n\nFollowing his retirement from professional ice hockey, he spent 18 years as head coach of various teams at Princeton University. Quackenbush coached men's golf, and both the men's and women's ice hockey teams, at various times. He won eight Ivy League Championships with the men's golf team and three with the women's ice hockey team.\n\nQuackenbush was born on March 2, 1922, in Toronto, Ontario. He was born Hubert George Quackenbush but was given the nickname Bill by his aunt who disliked his given name. He played hockey on outdoor rinks around Toronto during the Great Depression as a youth, and was one of the top high school athletes in Canada as a teenager. In addition to hockey, he was a renowned football and soccer player. During the War Years, he played for the famous Canadian soccer club Toronto Scottish. Quackenbush had an opportunity to play football professionally, but he decided to pursue a career in hockey.\n\nQuackenbush began his junior career playing for the Toronto Native Sons of the Ontario Hockey Association. He scored 13 points in 13 games during the 1940–41 season. The following season, he played for the Brantford Lions, scoring 34 points in 23 games, and caught the attention of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League.\n\nQuackenbush signed as a free-agent with the Red Wings on October 19, 1942, and played 10 games during the 1942–43 season before breaking his wrist. After recovering from the injury, Detroit assigned him to the American Hockey League where he joined the Indianapolis Capitals. \nHe earned a regular position with the Red Wings during the 1943–44 season, scoring 4 goals and 18 points. In the next two seasons he averaged 21 points while only being assessed an average of 8 penalty minutes and scored a career high 11 goals in 1945–46. The following season he earned his first post-season honour, when he was named a Second Team NHL All-Star. He was also named the Red Wings team MVP. He registered a career high 17 penalty minutes in 1947–48 and was named a First Team All-Star. The season also saw the start of a streak of 131 consecutive games where Quackenbush was not assessed a penalty. It began with the final 5 regular season and 10 playoff games that year, continued through the entire 60 regular season and 11 playoff games during the 1948–49 season, and ended after 45 games of the 1949–50 season. At the conclusion of the 1948–49 season, he was awarded the Lady Byng Trophy, the NHL's annual award for sportsmanship and gentlemanly conduct. He was the first defenceman to win the award, and remains one of only three in NHL history to capture the trophy. Detroit General Manager Jack Adams detested the award and felt that any player who won it did not belong on his team, so he promptly traded Quackenbush. He was sent to the Boston Bruins with Pete Horeck for Pete Babando, Lloyd Durham, Clare Martin and Jimmy Peters, Sr.\n\nQuackenbush became a fan favourite upon his arrival in Boston, where his offensive style of play was compared to former Bruin (and fellow Hall of Famer) Eddie Shore. In his first season in Boston, Quackenbush scored 8 goals and 25 points. He continued to stay out of the penalty box, registering only 4 penalty minutes. However, it marked the first time in three seasons that he was not named to the NHL All-Star Team. The Bruins defence core was depleted by injury in 1950–51, forcing the team to use several first year players. While this resulted in Quackenbush having to play more minutes, including a game where he played 55 minutes, it also gave him the opportunity to play with his brother Max. It was the only time the two played professionally together. He also set a career high in points with 29 and was again named a First Team NHL All-Star. Over the next five seasons Quackenbush hovered around the 20 point mark and was never assessed more than 8 penalty minutes in a year.\n\nQuackenbush retired following the 1955–56 season, having accumulated only 95 penalty minutes over 774 games. This averaged out to seven seconds a game, one of the lowest in NHL history for a player at any position. He was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1976.\n\nFollowing his NHL career, Quackenbush worked as a manufacturer's agent while attending night school at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts. At Northeastern, he earned an Associate's degree in engineering. Quackenbush also became an assistant coach at Northeastern.\n\nIn 1967, he became the head coach for Princeton University's men's ice hockey team, a position he would hold for six seasons. His best season was his first in 1967–68, when the Tigers posted a 13–10–0 record. It was the highest win total for Princeton since 1935–36. However, his success with the men's ice hockey team would not last; Princeton won no more than five games for their next five seasons. His worst campaign was in 1970–71, when Princeton had two 11 game losing streaks and a 1–22–0 overall record. Because of this, Quackenbush stepped down as the head coach in 1973. In 1969 he began coaching the Princeton men's golf team. He enjoyed much greater success with the golf team, leading them to eight Ivy League championships. In 1978 Princeton started a women's ice hockey team, and Quackenbush was asked to coach them. He was still coaching the golf team but decided to accept the additional position and led them to three consecutive Ivy League championships between 1982 and 1984. Quackenbush retired from coaching in 1985, after which he moved to Orlando, Florida, where he lived for several years before moving to New Jersey in 1997.\n\nHe married Joan Kalloch and the couple had three sons, Bruce, Scott and Todd. At the time of his death, Quackenbush also had seven grandchildren. He died of pneumonia and complications from Alzheimer's disease on September 12, 1999, at Chandler Hall Hospice in Newtown, Pennsylvania, at the age of 77.\n\nQuackenbush was an offensive defenceman who carried the puck up the ice, making use of his stick handling, passing skills and ability to read the play. Over the course of his career, he was considered one of the elite rushing defenceman in the NHL. He was a solid checker, but relied more on positioning and discipline than physical play. This is evident by his low yearly average of penalty minutes and the fact that he was assessed only one major penalty throughout his NHL career.\n\nDefensively he made use of poke checks to take the puck from his opponents and excelled at getting to loose pucks and clearing them out of the defensive zone. He was adept at keeping opposing forwards from creating offence from behind the net.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996307", "title": "Ernest Bour", "text": "Ernest Bour\n\nErnest Bour (20 April 1913 - 20 June 2001) was a noted conductor. Born in Thionville, Moselle (in north-eastern Lorraine, then part of Germany), Bour studied at both the University and the Conservatoire of Strasbourg. His conducting teachers included Fritz Münch and Hermann Scherchen.\n\nPerhaps his most heard recording is of Ligeti's \"Atmospheres\" with the Southwest German Radio Symphony Orchestra aka Sinfonieorchester des Südwestfunks Baden-Baden heard on the soundtrack to .\n\nAfter serving as chorus master for the radio choruses of Geneva and Strasbourg, he was appointed conductor of the Orchestre de Mulhouse in 1941. In 1950 he became conductor of the Strasbourg Philharmonic Orchestra and in 1955 of the Strasbourg Opera House, where he had conducted the premiere of Delannoy's \"Puck\" in 1949. He was principal conductor of the SWF Symphony Orchestra in Baden-Baden from 1964 to 1979. He conducted the European premiere of Berio's Sinfonia during the 1969 Donaueschingen Festival by the Southwest German Radio Symphony Orchestra. From 1976 until 1987 he was permanent guest conductor of The Netherlands Radio Chamber Orchestra located in the VARA radio headquarters in Hilversum.\n\nBour's repertoire was marked by a concentration on contemporary music. World premières he presided over included works by Bussotti, Ferneyhough, Górecki, Ligeti, Rihm, Stockhausen and Xenakis, and he gave the French premières of Hindemith's Symphony \"Mathis der Maler\" and Stravinsky's \"The Rake's Progress\" and the European premiere of Susman's \"Trailing Vortices\". His recordings ranged from music of François Couperin to André Jolivet.\n\nBour died in Strasbourg, aged 88.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996313", "title": "Majed Abdullah", "text": "Majed Abdullah\n\nMajed Ahmed Abdullah (; born 11 January 1959) is a Saudi Arabian former footballer who played for Al-Nassr and the Saudi national team. Abdullah is the all-time leading goalscorer for Saudi Arabia with 72 goals in 117 games. At club level, he is the record goalscorer for Al-Nassr and is the all-time top scorer of the Saudi Professional League. He was often referred to by his nickname Arabian Jewel.\n\nMajed Abdullah is regarded as one of the greatest Asian footballers of the 20th century. He was nominated for IFFHS Asia's Player of the Century, finishing third place. He spent his entire club career at Al-Nassr, and scored 189 league goals in a twenty-one-year career. During this time, Al-Nassr established themselves as one of the dominant forces in Saudi and Asian football. With Majed Abdullah leading the attack, Al-Nassr won five League titles and four King Cup titles as well as the 1997–98 Asian Cup Winners' Cup. Majed Abdullah also finished as the Saudi League top scorer six times throughout his career. Majed Abdullah retired from football in 1998, after Al-Nassr's Asian Cup Winners' Cup Final victory over Suwon Samsung Bluewings.\n\nHis success was not limited to the domestic stage, in 1984 Saudi Arabia qualified for their first-ever global international tournament at the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. Abdullah scored their only goal as Saudi Arabia lost all three group games. International success did come in 1984, however, in the Asian Cup in Singapore. Saudi Arabia beat China 2–0 in the final to take the title for the first time, with Abdullah scoring the second goal. Four years later in 1988, he would score twice in the tournament in Qatar as the Saudi team retained the title by beating South Korea on penalties.\n\nAbdullah was born in the Al-Baghdadia District in Jeddah to Sudanese parents. Majed is the second son of Ahmed Abdullah. Live close to a sports club alongside being the son of a football manager piqued Majed's interest in football. In the mid-1960s, Majed and his family moved to Riyadh where his father got a job as the manager of Al-Nassr's youth team. Majed enrolled in \"Al-Jazaeria Elementary School\" and he passionately watched the older kids play football. A couple of years later, Majed joined the school football team as well as the neighborhood team. He used to play as a goalkeeper. One day the team's striker was absent and Majed had to replace him. This position change proved to be successful as Majed guided his team to a 3–1 victory. Majed's family moved to Hotat Khaled District and the young Majed joined \"Al-Motawasta Al-Thania\" high school. Majed and his neighbors formed a team they called Al-Ittifaq. They tried to participate in a tournament but their request was rejected due to their young age. They didn't give up and challenged one of Riyadh's best neighborhood teams for a place in that tournament. Al-Ittifaq surprisingly won the match 3–1 with Majed scoring twice. \"Al-Ittifaq\" participated in the tournament and they went on to win the championship.\n\nMohammed Al-Hudayan, a teammate at Al-Ittifaq, recommended Abdullah to Al-Nassr president Prince Abdulrahman Bin Saud, as did Al-Ittifaq's coach Nasseb Awad to Khaled Al-Turki and Al-Nassr coach Ljubiša Broćić. Broćić went to see Abdullah unannounced at Al-Ittifaq's training field in Al-Batha and requested that the club sign him. Abdullah officially joined Al-Nassr on 10 November 1975.\n\nAbdullah spent 2 years playing for the youth teams before being promoted to the senior team. He made his senior debut in a friendly against Moroccan side Al-Fath in January 1977. He made his competitive debut on 21 January 1977 by coming off the bench in the league match against Al-Shabab. Abdullah made his first start as well as score his first goal for Al-Nassr on 18 March 1977 in the league match against Al-Wehda. Following an injury to first-choice striker Mohammad Abdeli, Abdullah was given a chance to prove himself. He repaid that trust by scoring 3 goals in the final 3 rounds of the league.\n\nMajed Abdullah finished as the Saudi League top scorer 6 times in his career. He also won the League 4 times as well as the King Cup 4 times. Majed is the all-time top scorer of the Saudi League with 189 goals and is also Al-Nassr's all-time top scorer with 260 goals. Majed Abdullah announced his retirement on 12 April 1998 following Al-Nassr's win in the 1998 Asian Cup Winner's Cup in front of 70,000 fans in Riyadh.\n\nMajed made his senior team debut in 1978 in an unofficial friendly against Portuguese giants Benfica where he scored 2 goals. His official debut was against China on 10 December 1978. Majed represented Saudi national team in 2 Asian Cups, 5 Gulf Cups, the 1984 Olympic Games and the 1994 FIFA World Cup. He retired from the National Team shortly after the 1994 World Cup. \n\nSource:\n\n\n\n\nAl-Nassr\n\nSaudi Arabia\n\nIndividual\n\nAl-Nassr\n\nOn 20 May 2008, 10 years after Abdullah's last match, a testimonial match was held between Al-Nassr and Real Madrid, who were just crowned with their 31st La Liga title. The match was held at Al-Nassr's home ground, the King Fahd International Stadium in Riyadh. Al-Nassr won the match 4–1 with 70,000 fans in attendance. The match saw players from other clubs such as Mohamed Al-Deayea, Malek Mouath and Nashat Akram represent Al-Nassr. Arjen Robben broke the deadlock at the 50th before Mouath and Akram scored in quick succession. Saud Kariri then added a third in the 61st before Mouath scored the fourth goal in the first minute of stoppage time.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "1996315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996315", "title": "Jens Juel (painter)", "text": "Jens Juel (painter)\n\nJens Juel (12 May 1745 – 27 December 1802) was a Danish painter, primarily known for his many portraits, of which the largest collection is on display at Frederiksborg Castle. He is regarded as the leading Danish portrait painting of the 18th century.\n\nHe was born in the house of his mother's brother Johan Jørgensen, who was a school teacher in Balslev on the island of Funen. Jens Juel was the illegitimate son of Vilhelmine Elisabeth Juel (January 1725 – March 1799), who served at Wedellsborg, and a fine gentleman, probably a Wedell or Lord Jens Juel. When Juel was one year old, his mother married Jørgen Jørgensen (1724 – 4 June 1796), who was a schoolmaster in Gamborg, not far from Balslev, and he grew up in Gamborg.\n\nJuel showed an interest in painting from an early age, and his parents sent him to be an apprentice of painter Johann Michael Gehrman in Hamburg, where he worked hard for five or six years and improved so much that he acquired a reputation as a painter of portraits, landscapes, etc. During the time of his studies, he could live off painting landscapes, portraits and genre pictures. At just over twenty years old, he moved to Copenhagen to attend the Royal Danish Academy of Art. In 1767 he was awarded its small gold medal and in 1771 the great gold medal, both for Biblical themes.\nIn 1772 Juel left Copenhagen, moving to Rome where he stayed for four years together with other Danish artists, including Nicolai Abildgaard. From Rome, he moved to Paris, at the time a center of portrait painting. In 1777 he moved on to Geneva, where he stayed for two years at the home of his friend Charles Bonnet in the company of other Danish artists, including etcher Johann Friderich Clemens. In Geneva, Juel soon earned a reputation as an excellent artist, and he painted many portraits. Through Bonnet, who had become an honorary member of the Danish Academy, his reputation reached Denmark. After a brief stay in Hamburg, where he met and painted a portrait of the poet Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock, author of \"The Messiah\", he returned to Copenhagen in 1780. Here he painted portraits for the royal house, nobility, and the well-to-do, as well as landscapes and genre paintings and was designated as the court painter.\n\nOn 4 April 1782, he was unanimously elected to be a member of the Danish Academy by Mandelberg, Weidenhaupt, and Abildgaard. He became the director of the Academy in 1795 and continued in the position until his death.\n\nJuel is buried at Assistens Cemetery in Copenhagen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996326", "title": "Celaleddin Koçak", "text": "Celaleddin Koçak\n\nCelaleddin Koçak (born 24 November 1977 in West Berlin, West Germany) is a Turkish footballer.\n\nHe began his career at Tennis Borussia Berlin but found little success there. Like many young footballers born to Turkish immigrant parents in Germany, he tried his chances by joining a Turkish team. In December 1999, he decided to join Altay S.K. of İzmir. Six months later he had been impressive enough to earn a place at Süper Lig side MKE Ankaragücü. He stayed there for two years, joining Diyarbakırspor in 2002. Here he helped the newly promoted side to remain in the top division.\n\nIn summer 2003, Koçak joined Malatyaspor and it was here that he really made a name for himself. As well as helping Malatyaspor to a mid table place, he was particularly impressive in their performances in the UEFA Cup.\n\nThe next year, he joined Ziya Doğan, who had brought him to Malatyaspor a year earlier, at Trabzonspor. Again, he established himself in the team from the beginning and became a regular as Trabzonspor finished as runners up in the league.\n\nKoçak in a left sided player who can alternate between defence and midfield. At Trabzonspor, he was used primarily in defence. His abilities lie in his power and speed which help him to make forward runs as well as defending effectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996334", "title": "Inger Nilsson", "text": "Inger Nilsson\n\nKarin Inger Monica Nilsson (born 4 May 1959) is a Swedish actress and singer. She is a former child actress. She is primarily known for her portrayal of Pippi Longstocking in the Swedish-produced TV series of the same name during 1969 which was compiled, re-dubbed into German and later also in English and many other languages, and released as two feature films in 1969. In 1970, she reprised her role of Pippi in two subsequent feature films. She currently works as a secretary in Stockholm, occasionally taking small stage roles.\n\nNilsson was eight years old when she was cast as Pippi Longstocking. First, she did a TV series and then three feature films. After Pippi Longstocking she trained as a medical secretary, but chose to pursue a career as an actress. Nilsson was, among other things, property master at Östgötateatern and acted in several plays.\n\nIn 2000, the Swiss director Xavier Koller convinced her to take a role in his film \"Gripsholm\", based on a novel by Kurt Tucholsky.\n\nSince 2007 she has been appearing on the German TV-channel ZDF as the forensic pathologist Ewa in the TV-series \"Der Kommissar und das Meer\" ().\n\nIn 2009, Nilsson was a celebrity contestant on \"Kändisdjungeln\".\n\nIn 1975 Nilsson received a TP de Oro award in the \"Most Popular Personage\" category for her role in Pippi Longstocking TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996339", "title": "Lipovitan", "text": "Lipovitan\n\n, marketed in English-speaking countries under the name Libogen and Livita, is an energy drink manufactured by Taisho Pharmaceutical Co. and its licensee Osotspa. Widely available in Asia, it retails in brown-colored translucent 100 ml bottles, and its contents has a distinctive bright yellow color. Lipovitan is marketed to alleviate physical and mental fatigue.\n\nThe primary ingredient in the Lipovitan product line is taurine. Stronger formulas of the drink include \"Lipovitan D\", which contains 1000 mg of taurine, 20 mg of nicotinic acid extract (vitamin B), 5 mg each of vitamin B1, B2 and B6, and 50 mg of caffeine. \"Lipovitan D Super\" contains 2000 mg of taurine and 300 mg of arginine. \"MAXIO\" contains 3000 mg of taurine. The warning label on all of its products say not to consume more than 100 ml per day.\n\nLipovitan products are sold in Japan and in stores in other countries that carry Asian products.\n\nIts introduction predates Red Bull, having been first released in 1962. Arginine is the main active ingredient in the modified Red Bull sold in Japan.\n\nThe Japan national rugby team is sponsored by Lipovitan Dli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996340", "title": "Norman Jay Coleman", "text": "Norman Jay Coleman\n\nNorman Jay Colman (May 16, 1827 – November 3, 1911) was a politician, attorney, educator, newspaper publisher, and, for 18 days, the first United States Secretary of Agriculture.\n\nColman was born in Richfield Springs, New York, to son of Nancy (Sprague) and Hamilton Coleman. He later moved to Kentucky to become an educator. While in Louisville, he took the time to attend law school and received a law degree from the University of Louisville Law School in 1849. \n\nIn 1850, Colman became the first principal in Greenville when the Floyd County Seminary opened in Greenville, Indiana. The school was funded by raising $2,000 with Greenville residents contributing an additional $800 to secure the school for their town. For this sum, it was possible to erect a large 2-story brick building on land donated by Isaac Redman. One of the trustees appointed to oversee the new school was John Baptiste Ford of Greenville who was a prominent resident and famous for his glass works.\n\nColman served as Principal in Greenville for two years. In 1852, the Hoosier legislature approved the first laws establishing the public school system. This spelled the end of the older county seminaries for the new law provided that they be closed and their assets turned over to the new public school systems. Some 100 students had been attending the school paying tuition of $4 to $8 a semester and finding board and lodging in Greenville homes at $1 a week. \n\nThe closing of the Seminary proved to be the end of Colman's teaching career. During Colman's time in Greenville, he met Clara Porter and married in 1851. Clara was the daughter of Daniel Porter who is best known for Porter's Public House in Greenville which was a notorious hotel, bar, and social spot. Together they had two children; Laura Kate Colman (1860) and Francis Porter Colman (1862).\n\nColman then moved to Missouri, ostensibly to farm. He was elected as an Alderman for St. Louis city's 5th ward as a Whig in 1854 and 1855 In 1855 he founded the \"Valley Farmer\" newspaper. As a result of his publication, Colman became a prominent figure in Missouri farming circles, which set the path for a political career in the Missouri House of Representatives. The publication of Colman's newspaper was interrupted by the American Civil War, but three years after the war he founded the \"Coleman's Rural World\". His political career continued, culminating with his election as the 17th Lieutenant Governor of Missouri from 1875 to 1877, as a Democrat.\n\nPresident Grover Cleveland appointed Colman Commissioner of Agriculture in 1885. During his tenure he led a coalition of land-grant agricultural colleges in writing proposed legislation for the creation of agricultural experiment stations. Their lobbying efforts helped produce the Hatch Act in 1887.\n\nHe also lobbied for the creation of the United States Department of Agriculture and served as its inaugural Secretary at the end of Cleveland's term, February 15, 1889 to March 6, 1889. However, his position was never confirmed by the United States Senate. \n\nHe returned to St. Louis to run his newspaper. He also spent the next 20 years in state public service and in horse-breeding.\n\nHe died on November 3, 1911 at age 84 from pneumonia, and is buried in Bellefontaine Cemetery in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nColman married Clara Porter of Greenville, Indiana in 1851 and had two children, daughter Laura Kate Colman (1860), who was the second wife of John Fremont Hill, Governor of Maine and Francis Porter Colman (1862) After Clara's death he married his second wife, the former Catherine Wright in 1866 and had one child, daughter Clara Wright Colman (1876) whom he named after his deceased wife.\n\nHe was a member of the Freemasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996348", "title": "Vladan Grujić", "text": "Vladan Grujić\n\nVladan Grujić (; born 17 May 1981) is a Bosnian former footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.\n\nBorn in Banja Luka, SR Bosnia and Herzegovina, back then within Yugoslavia, Vladan Grujić played for FK Borac Banja Luka and Serbian clubs FK Obilić and Red Star Belgrade. Since, Grujić has played for the German club 1. FC Köln before moving to Alania Vladikavkaz. In January 2006, he left Alania on a free transfer and joined Bulgarian side Litex Lovech on 28 January 2007. He signed a six-month contract with FK Sarajevo.\n\nOn 29 February 2008, he signed a three-year contract with Norwegian club Moss FK.\n\nIn November 2009, he was released by Moss FK and was available on free transfer.\n\nIn January 2010, he was on trial at the Polish second division club Gornik Zabrze.\n\nIn June 2011, he signed a two-year contract with Cypriot club Aris Limassol F.C..\n\nOn 21 July 2015, after playing two seasons with FK Borac Banja Luka in the Bosnian Premier League, Grujić returns to Serbia, this time by signing with top-flight club FK Voždovac.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996350", "title": "The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D", "text": "The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D\n\nThe Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D is a 2005 American adventure film co-written and directed by Robert Rodriguez and originally released in the United States on June 10, 2005 by Dimension Films and Columbia Pictures. The film uses the anaglyph 3-D technology, similar to the one used in \"\" (2003). The film stars Taylor Lautner, Taylor Dooley, Cayden Boyd, David Arquette, Kristin Davis and George Lopez. Many of the concepts and much of the story were conceived by Rodriguez's children. The special effects were done by Hybride Technologies, CafeFX, The Orphanage, Post Logic, Hydraulx, Industrial Light & Magic, R!ot Pictures, Tippett Studio, Amalgamated Pixels, Intelligent Creatures and Troublemaker Digital.\n\nThe film received negative reviews from critics with much of the criticism directed at the film's story and poor 3-D. The film also underperformed at the box office earning just $39 million in the United States and $69.4 million worldwide on a $50 million budget.\n\nMax is a 10-year-old lonely child in the suburbs of Austin who creates an imaginary dreamworld named Planet Drool, where all of his dreams come to life. He creates two characters; Sharkboy, who was raised by sharks after losing his father (who was a marine biologist) at sea and became a shark-hybrid himself, and Lavagirl, who can produce fire and lava, but has trouble touching objects without setting them on fire. The two left Max to guard Planet Drool. In reality, Max's parents have little time for him, and their marriage is not going well. Max is also bullied by fellow classmate Linus. However, he does receive friendship from Marissa, the daughter of his teacher Mr. Electricidad. After a chase, Linus steals Max's dream journal and vandalizes it. The next day, as Max attempts to retaliate, twin tornadoes form outside the school. Sharkboy and Lavagirl emerge from the tornadoes and have Max accompany them to Planet Drool, which he learns is turning bad thanks to Mr. Electric, a robot resembling Mr. Electricidad and the dreamworld's now-corrupt electrician, under the orders of an unknown mastermind.\n\nThey confront Mr. Electric in his lair, but he drops them into the Dream Graveyard, where some of Max's dreams have been dumped. They find Tobor, a robot toy that Max never finished building in the real world after being discouraged by his father. Tobor gives them a lift to other parts of the planet. The three form a friendship during their journey, but they face hardships, such as Sharkboy's anger for the oceans being frozen over, and Lavagirl's desperation to find her true purpose on Planet Drool. They are pursued by Mr. Electric and his \"plughounds\" across the planet. They plan to visit the Ice Princess and obtain the Crystal Heart, which can freeze time, giving them enough time to get to the center of Planet Drool and fix the dreamworld using Max's daydreaming. However, they are captured by Mr. Electric, and delivered to the mastermind, who is revealed to be Minus, a villain resembling Linus who has altered the dreamworld with Max's journal, and traps the three in a cage. Sharkboy gets annoyed by singing bubbles called LaLas and has a \"shark frenzy\", destroying the cage. After they escape, Max retrieves the dream journal from Minus while he is sleeping. Max informs Sharkboy that his father is alive in his book, but when Lavagirl wishes to learn what it says about her true identity, she burns the book to ash. In rage, Lavagirl asks Max why she is made out of lava, but Sharkboy tells him to let her cool down.\n\nMax, Sharkboy, and Lavagirl eventually reach the Ice Princess, who resembles Marissa. She hands over the Crystal Heart, but they are too late to stop the corruption since the Ice Princess is the only one who can use the Crystal Heart's power, and she cannot leave her home. Afterwards, Mr. Electric seemingly kills Sharkboy by fooling him into jumping into water filled with electric eels, which are his weakness, with Lavagirl sacrificing herself by jumping into the water to retrieve him. Tobor appears and convinces Max to dream a better and unselfish dream. Just then, Sharkboy regains consciousness and races Lavagirl to a volcano to revive her. Max concludes that her purpose is as a light against the dark clouds which have engulfed Planet Drool's skies. Max gains reality warping as the Daydreamer and defeats Minus, then offers to make a better dreamworld between the two of them, to which Minus agrees.\n\nMinus offers Mr. Electric to return to running Planet Drool, but Mr. Electric reveals that he never enjoyed doing so in the first place. He also informs Max that he made a terrible mistake of dreaming him up and flies to Earth to destroy Max while he is dreaming. Max awakens back in his classroom during the tornado storm. Mr. Electric arrives in the tornado before Max and an astonished Mr. Electricidad. Max's parents are caught in the storm as well, but are saved by Sharkboy and Lavagirl. Max gives the Crystal Heart to Marissa so she can use the Ice Princess's powers to freeze and destroy Mr. Electric. Mr. Electricidad, Linus and Max make peace with one another, and Max reunites with his parents.\n\nMax later informs his class that Planet Drool has become a proper dreamworld once again, Sharkboy became the King of the Ocean, and Lavagirl became Queen of the Volcanoes, and as the film shows Max finally finishing Tobor, he reminds the class to \"dream a better dream, and work to make it real\".\n\n\nParts of the film were shot on location in Texas in September to December 2004, where Max resides and goes to school in the film. Much of the film was shot in a studio against green screen. Most of the ships, landscapes and other effects including some creatures and characters, were accomplished digitally. According to Lautner and Dooley, when filming the scene with the dream train, the front part of the train was an actual physical set piece. \"The whole inside was there and when they have all the gadgets you can pull on, that was all there but everything else was a green screen,\" said Dooley.\nEleven visual effects companies (Hybride Technologies, CafeFX, The Orphanage, Post Logic, Hydraulx, Industrial Light & Magic, R!ot Pictures, Tippett Studio, Amalgamated Pixels and Intelligent Creatures and Rodriguez's Texas-based Troublemaker Digital) worked on the film in order to accomplish over 1,000 visual effect shots.\n\nRobert Rodriguez appears in the credits fourteen times, most notably as director, a producer, a screenwriter (along with Marcel Rodriguez), visual effects supervisor, director of photography, editor, a camera operator, and a composer and performer. The story is credited to Racer Max Rodriguez, with additional story elements by Rebecca Rodriguez, who also wrote the lyrics for the main song, \"Sharkboy and Lavagirl\". Other members of the Rodriguez family can be seen in the film or were involved in the production.\n\nMiley Cyrus had auditioned for the film with Lautner, and said it came down to her and another girl who was also auditioning; however, Cyrus then began production on \"Hannah Montana\".\n\nThe film holds a 19% rating on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on 124 reviews, with an average rating of 4.33/10. The consensus reads, \"The decision to turn this kiddie fantasy into a 3-D film was a miscalculation.\" Roger Ebert gave the film 2 out of 4 stars and agreed with the other criticisms in which the 3-D process used was distracting and muted the colors, thus, he believes, \"spoiling\" much of the film and that the film would look more visually appealing when released in the home media market.\n\nFor its opening weekend, the film earned $12.6 million in 2,655 theaters. It was placed #5 at the box office, being overshadowed by \"Mr. & Mrs. Smith\", \"Madagascar\", \"\", and \"The Longest Yard\". The film was not very successful in the US, taking in $39,177,541 and was a box office bomb. However, it did manage to gross $30,248,282 overseas, for a total of $69,425,966 worldwide.\n\nThe Total Nonstop Action professional wrestler Dean Roll, who trademarked the name \"Shark Boy\" in 1999, sued Miramax on June 8, 2005, claiming that his trademark had been infringed and demanding \"[any] money, profits and advantages wrongfully gained\". In April 2007, the suit was settled for a disclosed amount of $200,000.\n\nDirector Robert Rodriguez composed parts of the score himself, with contributions by composers John Debney and Graeme Revell. Green Day were reportedly set to contribute \"Wake Me Up When September Ends\" to the soundtrack, but Robert Rodriguez declined it.\n\nAround the time of the film's debut Rodriguez co-wrote a series of children's novels entitled \"Sharkboy and Lavagirl Adventures\" with acclaimed science fiction writer Chris Roberson. They include Book 1, \"The Day Dreamer\", and Book 2, \"Return to Planet Drool\", which announces that it will be continued in a third volume, \"Deep Sleep\", which has yet to appear. They are illustrated throughout by Alex Toader, who designed characters and environments for the film and the previous Spy Kids franchise.\n\nJeff Jensen of \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised another book appearing around the time of the film, \"The Adventures of SharkBoy and LavaGirl: The Movie Storybook\" (by Racer Max Rodriguez and Robert Rodriguez), as a far cry from the usual movie storybook tie-in, and also praised Alex Toader's \"cartoony yet detailed\" illustrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996352", "title": "Bridge of the Americas", "text": "Bridge of the Americas\n\nThe Bridge of the Americas (; originally known as the Thatcher Ferry Bridge) is a road bridge in Panama, which spans the Pacific entrance to the Panama Canal. Designed by Sverdrup & Parcel, it was completed in 1962 at a cost of US$20 million, connecting the north and south American land masses. Two other bridges cross the canal: the Atlantic Bridge at the Gatun locks and the Centennial Bridge.\n\nThe Bridge of the Americas crosses the Pacific approach to the Panama Canal at Balboa, near Panama City. It was built between 1959 and 1962 by the United States at a cost of US$20 million. From its completion in 1962 until the opening of the parallel Centennial Bridge in 2004, the Bridge of the Americas was a key part of the Pan-American Highway. The Bridge of the Americas greatly increases road traffic capacity across the Canal. Two earlier bridges cross the Canal, but they use moveable designs and have limited traffic capacity. These earlier spans include a small swinging road bridge, built into the lock structure at Gatún, and a swinging road/rail bridge constructed in 1942 at Miraflores. The Centennial Bridge was constructed to eliminate the bottleneck of, and reduce traffic congestion on, the Bridge of the Americas.\n\nThe bridge is a cantilever design where the suspended span is a tied arch. The bridge has a total length of 1,654 m (5,425 ft) in 14 spans, abutment to abutment. The main span measures and the tied arch (the center part of the main span) is . The highest point of the bridge is above mean sea level; the clearance under the main span is at high tide. Ships must cross under this bridge when traversing the Panama Canal, and are subject to this height restriction. The world's largest cruise ships, \"Oasis of the Seas\", \"Allure of the Seas\", \"Harmony of the Seas\" and the \"Symphony of the Seas\" will fit within the canal's widened locks, but they are too tall to pass under the Bridge of the Americas, even at low tide, unless the Bridge of the Americas is raised in the future. (The Centennial Bridge is also a fixed obstacle, but its clearance is much higher: .)\n\nThe bridge has wide access ramps at each end, and pedestrian walkways on each side.\n\nFrom the beginning of the French project to construct a canal, it was recognised that the cities of Colón and Panamá would be split from the rest of the republic by the new canal. This was an issue even during construction, when barges were used to ferry construction workers across the canal.\n\nAfter the canal opened, the increasing number of cars, and the construction of a new road leading to Chiriquí, in the west of Panama, increased the need for some kind of crossing. The Panama Canal Mechanical Division addressed this in August 1931, with the commissioning of two new ferries, the \"Presidente Amador\" and \"President Washington\". This service was expanded in August 1940, with additional barges mainly serving the military.\n\nOn June 3, 1942, a road/rail swing bridge was inaugurated at the Miraflores locks; although only usable when no ships were passing, this provided some relief for traffic wishing to cross the canal. Still, it was clear that a more substantial solution would be required. To meet the growing needs of vehicle traffic, another ferry, the \"Presidente Porras\", was added in November 1942.\n\nThe idea of a permanent bridge over the canal had been proposed as a major priority as early as 1923. Subsequent administrations of Panama pressed this issue with the United States, which controlled the Canal Zone; and in 1955 the Remón-Eisenhower treaty committed the United States to building a bridge.\n\nA contract worth $20,000,000 was awarded to John F. Beasly & Company who built the bridge out of steel and reinforced concrete, and the project was initiated in a ceremony which took place on December 23, 1958, in the presence of United States Ambassador Julian Harrington, and Panamanian President Ernesto de la Guardia Navarro. Construction began on October 12, 1959, and took nearly two and a half years to complete.\n\nThe inauguration of the bridge took place on October 12, 1962, with great ceremony. The ribbon was cut by Maurice H. Thatcher, after which those present were allowed to walk across the bridge. The ceremony was given full nationwide coverage on radio and television; significant precautions were taken to manage the large crowds of people present. These proved inadequate, however, and pro-Panamanian protesters disrupted the ceremony, even removing the memorial plaques on the bridge.\n\nWhen opened, the bridge was an important part of the Pan-American Highway, and carried around 9,500 vehicles per day; however, this expanded over time, and by 2004 the bridge was carrying 35,000 vehicles per day. The bridge therefore became a significant bottleneck on the highway, which led to the construction of the Centennial Bridge, which now carries the Pan-American Highway too. On May 18, 2010, the bulk cargo ship \"Atlantic Hero\" struck one of the protective bases of the bridge after losing engine power, partially blocking that section of the canal to shipping traffic. The bridge did not receive damage and there were no fatalities. In December 2010, the Centennial Bridge access road collapsed in a mudslide, and commercial traffic was diverted to the Bridge of The Americas.\n\nThe bridge was originally named \"Thatcher Ferry Bridge\", after the original ferry which crossed the canal at about the same point. The ferry was, in turn, named after Maurice H. Thatcher, a former member of the Canal Commission, who introduced the legislation which created the ferry. Thatcher cut the tape at the inauguration of the bridge.\n\nThe name was unpopular with the government of Panama, however, which preferred the name \"Bridge of the Americas\". The Panamanian view was made official by a resolution of the National Assembly on October 2, 1962, ten days before the inauguration. \n\nThe resolution read as follows:\n\nThe bridge over the Panama Canal shall bear the name Bridge of the Americas. Said name will be used exclusively to identify said bridge.\nPanamanian government officials shall reject any document in which reference is made to the bridge by any name other than \"Bridge of the Americas\".\nA copy of this resolution, with the appropriate note on style, shall be forwarded to all legislative bodies of the world, so that all may give the bridge the name chosen by this honorable assembly, complying with the express will of the Panamanian people.\nGiven in the city of Panama on the second day of the month of October of nineteen hundred and sixty-two.\nDuring the inauguration ceremony (which was concluded with the playing of the \"Thatcher Ferry Bridge March\"), U.S. Under Secretary of State George Wildman Ball said in his speech: \"we can look today to this bridge as a new and bright step toward the realization of that dream of a Pan-American Highway, which is now almost a reality. The grand bridge we inaugurate today — truly a bridge of the Americas — completes the last stage of the highway from the United States to Panama\".\n\nNonetheless, the official name of the bridge became the \"Thatcher Ferry Bridge\" and remained so until Panamanian control in 1979.\n\nPostage stamps were issued with the name \"Thatcher Ferry Bridge\". In the postage stamps and postal history of the Canal Zone they are well known for an error on one sheet where the bridge is missing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996357", "title": "Larry Mendte", "text": "Larry Mendte\n\nLawrence David Mendte (born January 16, 1957) is an American news anchor, commentator and radio talk show host. Mendte is currently hosting three TV shows, \"Jersey Matters\", \"The Delaware Way\", and \"Another Thing with Larry Mendte\". Mendte also hosts \"The Larry Mendte Show\" on WABC (AM) in New York. Until a few years ago, Mendte wrote and delivered nightly commentaries at WPIX in New York City that were aired at TV stations across the country. He continued writing and delivering the commentaries on \"Another Thing with Larry Mendte,\" which airs in the New York and Philadelphia TV markets. Mendte was the first male host of the American syndicated television show \"Access Hollywood\". From 2003 to mid-2008, he was the lead anchor of the 6pm and 11pm newscasts for KYW-TV (Channel 3), the CBS O&O in Philadelphia. After nearly two decades in last place, Mendte led the station to compete with first place WPVI-TV (Channel 6). KYW lured Mendte away from WCAU-TV (Channel 10), where he had anchored the 4, 6 and 11 pm newscasts and led the station to win news ratings in some time slots for the first time in 30 years.\n\nBorn and raised in Lansdowne, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Philadelphia, he attended St. Philomena Catholic School elementary school. During this time he began delivering the \"Philadelphia Bulletin\". Mendte graduated from Monsignor Bonner High School in nearby Drexel Hill. In 2003, Mendte was inducted into the high school's Hall of Fame. He earned a B.A. in Communications from West Chester University and was named a distinguished alumnus. After giving a commencement address in 2006, Mendte was awarded the President's Medal for Service in recognition of his community work.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1988 he was a weekend anchor on WABC, as well as fill-in sports anchor. He anchored the news and was an investigative reporter at WBBM in Chicago from 1991 to 1995. While at WBBM, Mendte's series of reports on school bus safety resulted in a new state law. Mendte won a record 27 Emmy Awards in Chicago and was twice named Best reporter by the Illinois Associated Press. He anchored the news at WCMH in Columbus, Ohio, WLYH in Lebanon, Pennsylvania (where he also did the sportscast), WTAJ in Altoona and KIEM in Eureka, California.\n\nMendte was a weather personality at San Diego's KFMB and also performed stand-up comedy in Southern California comedy clubs. Mendte wrote and produced a humor commentary feature called \"How Come?\" for the Paramount Studios syndicated program \"Hard Copy\". Mendte was the first male host of \"Access Hollywood\" when the show debuted in 1996. He co-hosted Monday through Friday with Giselle Fernández and also co-hosted the weekend edition with future weekday host Nancy O'Dell. Mendte debuted \"Access Hollywood\" on September 9, 1996, with the words \"Hello everyone, I'm Larry Mendte and this is Access Hollywood.\"\n\nMendte left \"Access Hollywood\" in 1997 to return to Philadelphia and become the main anchor of WCAU (Channel 10)'s newscasts, including the 4 pm, 6pm and 11 pm programs, with the 4 pm show being the first on at that time in the market. He also created and hosted the Sunday morning news talk program \"Live at Issue\". During his time at WCAU the 11 pm newscast outrated market leader WPVI (Channel 6) for the first time since the 1970s.\n\nMendte joined KYW in 2003 after being wooed from WCAU. KYW launched a massive \"Make the Switch\" promotional campaign when Mendte arrived. The idea for the campaign was Mendte's. He also helped reformat the newscast and introduced the \"walking anchor\" to KYW that he was famous for at WCAU. KYW's ratings immediately jumped with Mendte in the main seat with Alycia Lane co-anchoring, and within a year the station would overtake WCAU at 11 pm and 6 pm for second place. Lane was later fired in December 2007 after being charged with a felony for assaulting a female police officer in New York. Mendte then anchored solo for a short time before being teamed with Susan Barnett, but Mendte was fired in June 2008 after an investigation revealed he accessed Lane's email accounts.\nWhile at KYW, Mendte also co-hosted the Eagles pre-game show from Lincoln Financial Field. Mendte wrote and directed several documentaries while at KYW, including \"Stealing Lightning From The Sky,\" about the Ben Franklin kit experiment, \"Alex Scott: A Stand for Hope,\" about the little girl who started Alex's Lemonade Stand, \"The Children of 9/11,\" about the children who lost parents in the 9/11 attacks and \"The Beanie Baby Soldier,\" about Corporal Stephen McGowan, a soldier who died in Iraq but left a legacy of caring for the Iraqi children.\nFor his work, Mendte won over 50 regional Emmys at KYW.\n\nIn February 2010 Mendte returned to television with a nightly commentary on current events, originating from Tribune Broadcasting's WPIX in New York. This segment is also seen on WPHL-TV's 10 pm newscast (which used to be produced by NBC's WCAU, a former employer of Mendte), WGN-TV in Chicago and several other Tribune and Local TV-owned stations across the country.\n\nIn June 2010, Mendte aired the first of several commentaries urging Congress to pass the \"9/11 First Responders Health and Compensation Bill\". Six months later when the bill was passed, Mendte was given several award from 9/11 First Responders organizations, including 2011 Humanitarian Award from the New York Fire Department's Columbia Association.\n\nIn 2011, 2012 2013, and 2014, and 2015, all five years he was eligible, Mendte won the New York regional Emmy award for Outstanding Commentary/Editorialist, setting a record and Mendte won a total of 8 Emmys during his time at WPIX. Aside from the record five Emmys for Outstanding Commentary/Editorialist, Mendte won in 2011 and 2014 for Outstanding Writer for his commentaries and for Outstanding Speciality Reporting in 2014 for his series of commentaries on the media.\n\nIn October 2012, Mendte co-anchored with Kaity Tong the day that Hurricane Sandy pounded the New York City area. For the next ten days, he co-anchored an extended 5 and 10 pm newscast at WPIX with Jodi Applegate. In April 2013, Mendte solo anchored the coverage of the Boston Marathon bombing and then co-anchored 12 hours straight with Tamsen Fadal as Boston Police killed one of the suspects, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, in a shootout and later captured his brother and second suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\n\nIn April 2011 Mendte was the only journalist to travel with former Congressman Curt Weldon on a peace mission to end the conflict in Libya. It was promoted that Weldon would meet with Muammar Gaddafi and that Mendte might get an interview. But Gaddafi reportedly cancelled a face-to-face meeting after Weldon's op-ed piece in \"The New York Times\" ran on the same day as the scheduled meeting. But Weldon did return with direct communication between the Iraqi Prime Minister to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the promise that four detained journalists would be freed.\n\nMendte was a contributor to the online version of \"Philadelphia Magazine\"from 2010 to 2015. Mendte's post on the drowning death of his niece stands as one of the most read columns ever on the site. Mendte occasionally writes for the print version of the magazine including a feature article on his life after he was let go by KYW.\nMendte wrote over 200 articles for the site in five years.\n\nMendte made his return to the Philadelphia air waves on May 7, 2012, with the debut of WWIQ. Mendte started with the station as co-host of the morning drive from 5 am to 9 am with radio veteran Al Gardner, who is originally from Philadelphia and anchored the same format at WBT in Charlotte, N.C. Mendte provided commentary on news events in a format that is a mixture of talk and news. Mendte started solo hosting a talk show from 8:30 until 9 in July 2012. On October 1, 2012, Mendte's was expanded from 8:30 to 10 am. On the new show, Mendte broke the national story of the high school student who was bullied for wearing a Romney/Ryan T-shirt to class.\n\nOn December 31, 2012, Mendte was fired, claiming his tenure there was 'a big experiment'. The dismissal of Mendte only fueled speculation that the radio station was up for sale. After Mendte's firing, the station's ratings dropped in half from a 3.6 rating in November to 1.8 in January. In August 2013 it was announced that Merlin was selling the station to Educational Media Foundation.\n\nIn late June 2014, Mendte was hired by KJWP (now WDPN-TV), a move-in television station which carries the Me-TV network and is licensed to Wilmington, Delaware, with a commitment to serve the state of Delaware. He serves as the station's public affairs director and hosts two programs for the station. Airing on Saturday nights before primetime, they are \"The Delaware Way\", a week-in-review rundown of state issues, and \"Another Thing with Larry Mendte\", a more general news and commentary program which feature Mendte's traditional commentary segments.\n\nIn 2016, Mendte won a Mid-Atlantic Emmy award for in the category, Outstanding Writer News/Commentary for his commentaries that air at the conclusion of \"And Another Thing with Larry Mendte.\" It was Mendte's 95th Emmy award and was the first for KJWP.\n\nMendte also serves as the public affairs director for WJLP, WDPN-TV's sister station in the New York market licensed to Middletown Township, New Jersey which also was a move-in operation. \"Another Thing with Larry Mendte\" also is carried by WJLP, along with a New Jersey-specific program for WJLP hosted by Mendte, \"Jersey Matters\". In 2016, Mendte won three more Emmy Awards, this time for WJLP in the New York Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (NATAS). One for On-Camera Talent: Commentator/Editorialist; Another for Writer: Commentary/Editorial; and, finally, one for On-Camera Talent: Reporter - Specialty Assignment, for a series of reports called Mendte on the Media.\n\nIn June 2014, Mendte was hired by WABC (AM) radio in New York City to host a Sunday Night talk show called \"The Larry Mendte Show.\" He also fills in frequently for Geraldo Rivera and Curtis Sliwa during the week. Mendte has also filled in for Ronn Owens on KGO-AM radio in San Francisco. \nMendte returned to WABC in October 2016 to host \"The Larry Mendte Show\" on Saturday Night from 11 PM to 2 AM. On election night 2016, Mendte co-hosted the station's coverage with Rita Cosby.\n\nIn June 2015, Mendte was hired by iHeartMedia in Delaware, as the morning talk show anchor for WILM-AM in Wilmington, Delaware and WDOV-AM in Dover, Delaware. The Larry Mendte Show was heard from 5:30 to 9 am in both markets. After helping change the format from news to talk and increasing the morning ratings, Mendte returned to WABC in New York in October 2016.\n\nMendte received acclaim for a series of reports he did on the eternal flame, a tribute to American veterans, in Philadelphia's historic Washington Square. Mendte highlighted the flame's failing infrastructure, forcing the city to take action to repair the natural gas line which provided the flame's fuel and relight it. His efforts were read into the Congressional record by U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA). Mendte was also honored with a regional Edward R. Murrow Award in the writing category for his reports on the eternal flame and a report on the Iraq War. He received a national Edward R. Murrow Award in 2008 for a report he wrote and produced about a soldier from Delaware, Stephen McGowan, who died in Iraq.\n\nMendte wrote, narrated and directed \"Alex Scott: A Stand for Hope\" in 2006. It told the story of the little girl who started Alex's Lemonade Stand to raise money to fight pediatric cancer, before dying of cancer. The documentary won several film festivals, including the West Chester Film Festival, where Mendte was named Pennsylvania Filmmaker of the year in 2006. Mendte also won the national Sigma Delta Chi Award from the Society of Professional Journalists in Washington D.C. for the documentary. The documentary was honored and placed on exhibit by The Paley Center for Media in New York in 2008.\n\nIn 2006, Mendte was inducted into the Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia Hall of Fame. Mendte has over 80 Regional Emmy Awards from the New York, San Diego, Chicago and Philadelphia markets, and holds the record in several categories in Philadelphia and Chicago. In Philadelphia, he has won a record 4 Emmy Awards in the Outstanding Anchor category and seven in various writing categories. In 2007, Mendte was named as one of the 75 Greatest Living Philadelphians by the \"Philadelphia Daily News\" in honor of the Philadelphia Eagles 75th anniversary.\n\nMendte is a member of the Saint Philomena's Hall of Fame, his elementary school in Lansdowne, PA., Monsignor Bonner's Hall of Fame, his high school and West Chester University's alumni Hall of Fame, his college. Mendte was inducted into the Philadelphia Broadcast Pioneer's Hall of Fame in Mendte is also a member of the Philadelphia Irish Americans Hall of Fame \n\nOn August 22, 2008, Mendte pleaded guilty to the charge of intentionally accessing his co-anchor Alycia Lane's email account without authorization. Mendte read a statement and acknowledged having had an \"improper relationship\" with Lane. He said that he ended the relationship and it \"quickly turned into a personal feud\" and that a vengeful Lane was attempting to get him fired. On November 24, 2008, Mendte received a sentence of 3 years probation (later reduced), including 6 months home confinement and 150 hours of community service. Federal Judge Mary A. McLaughlin ended Mendte's probation and all other sentencing requirements.\n\nMendte has continued to fight the felony conviction on several grounds. In a court filing, Mendte claims that the U.S. Attorney promised a misdemeanor charge in return for his cooperation. Mendte and his attorney agreed to a proffer wherein Mendte told investigators the entire story. However, they claim that the US Attorney informed them weeks later that they were going back on the deal and charging Mendte with a felony. In his post-sentence motion, Mendte's lawyer claimed his client's civil rights had been violated. The filing accuses then-U.S. Attorney Pat Meehan of changing the deal so he could hold a news conference to launch his political career. The filing details a purported early morning phone call wherein Meehan \"beg[ged]\" Mendte's attorney for a guilty plea before Meehan left office so that Meehan could make a \"policy statement\". The appeal was turned down by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit citing that Mendte pleaded guilty and gave up his rights to appeal.\n\nMendte is married to Dawn Stensland, the former 10 pm news co-anchor at Fox's WTXF (Channel 29), since 2000. She came to Philadelphia in 1997 as an anchor for KYW, then anchored CBS News Saturday Morning for a year and a half. In the 1990s, she was an anchor and reporter at WBBM in Chicago, Illinois, and WKYC in Cleveland, Ohio. Together, they have two sons: Michael was born in 2004, and David was born in 2006. In addition, Mendte has two adult children, Stacia and Jonathan, from a previous marriage.\n\nMendte appeared in three movies in cameo roles: \"Primary Colors\", \"Shadow of Doubt\", and \"Snipes\", a film starring Zoe Saldana. He wrote and directed four short documentaries. \"Ben Franklin: Stealing Lightning from the Sky\" aired across the country on Benjamin Franklin's birthday in 2006. The documentary questioned whether Franklin really did conduct his famous kite experiment. Later that year Mendte wrote and directed \"Alex Scott: A Stand for Hope\", a short documentary about Alex Scott, founder of Alex's Lemonade Stand. \"Alex Scott: A Stand for Hope\" won the award for Best Documentary at the Reno, Oxford, Danville, West Chester, Lake Arrowhead and Reel Award film Festivals. Mendte was named best Pennsylvania Filmmaker for 2006 at the West Chester Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996359", "title": "Michael Gielen", "text": "Michael Gielen\n\nMichael Andreas Gielen (20 July 19278 March 2019) was an Austrian conductor and composer who promoted contemporary music in opera and concert.\n\nRaised in Argentina, he first worked in Vienna and was Generalmusikdirektor (GMD) of the Royal Swedish Opera. He conducted notable world premieres such as György Ligeti's \"Requièm\", Karlheinz Stockhausen's \"Carré\", and Bernd Alois Zimmermann's opera \"Die Soldaten\" and his \"Requiem für einen jungen Dichter\". He directed the Oper Frankfurt from 1977 to 1987, installing more contemporary operas, winning stage directors such as Hans Neuenfels and Ruth Berghaus, and reviving operas such as Schreker's \"Die Gezeichneten\". During his era, the company became one of the leading operas.\n\nGielen was also principal conductor of the National Orchestra of Belgium (1969–1973), the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra (1980–1986) and the Southwest German Radio Symphony Orchestra (1986–1999). As a composer, he worked in the tradition of the Second Viennese School, often setting modern literature to music. His works were premiered with performers such as Joan Carroll, Siegfried Palm, Aloys Kontarsky and the LaSalle Quartet.\n\nGielen was born in Dresden to Rose (née Steuermann) and . His father was a theatre and opera director from 1924 at the Staatstheater Dresden, who staged the premiere of Kaiser/Weill's \"Der Protagonist\" at the Semperoper in 1926. His mother Rose came from a Jewish family in Sambor (then Austria-Hungary, now Ukraine). She was an actress who had given up acting when their first child Carola was born, but appeared occasionally, for example as a speaker in the premiere of Arnold Schönberg's \"Pierrot lunaire\" in Dresden in 1919, rehearsed with her brother Eduard Steuermann. The boy Michael first attended a reformed school from 1934 until it was closed by the Nazis. Both children were baptized and raised Catholic to counter Nazi indoctrination.\n\nClemens Krauss called Josef Gielen to the Staatsoper Berlin in 1936, where Michael attended primary school for a year, and then the Kaiserin-Augusta-Gymnasium. When his father's contract was dissolved in 1937, he found a position at the Vienna Burgtheater. The family followed there in 1938. Michael attended gymnasium and took piano lessons. Josef Gielen successfully staged at the Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1938 and 1939, and managed to get immigration papers for his wife and the two children. In 1940, the family left for Argentina, leaving most of their belongings behind.\n\nGielen began his career as a pianist in Buenos Aires, where he studied with . As a répétiteur at the Teatro Colón at age 20, he was the pianist to accompany the recitatives, in the style of the time, in a performance of Bach's \"St Matthew Passion\" conducted by Wilhelm Furtwängler. In 1949, he gave an early performance of Arnold Schoenberg's complete piano works.\n\nIn 1950, Gielen moved to Vienna where his father had become director of the Burgtheater. Michael Gielen was conductor and répétiteur, who conducted at the Wiener Staatsoper from 1954 to 1960, assisting conductors such as Karl Böhm, Herbert von Karajan and Clemens Krauss. He conducted contemporary music outside the opera house.\nHis next operatic appointment, from 1960, was at the Royal Swedish Opera, where he was Generalmusikdirektor (GMD) for the first time, until 1965. He conducted a production of Stravinsky's \"The Rake's Progress\", which Ingmar Bergman staged as a radicalised Christian Passion (\"radikalisierte christliche Passion\"), in the presence of the composer.\n\nHe took to freelance conducting in 1965, including the premiere of Bernd Alois Zimmermann's opera \"Die Soldaten\" in Cologne that year, a work that had been deemed to be impossible to perform. He premiered Aribert Reimann's opera \"Ein Traumspiel\" on 20 June 1965 at the Opernhaus Kiel. He then had a contract with the Netherlands Opera.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1987, Gielen was GMD at the Oper Frankfurt, where he worked with the dramaturge Klaus Zehelein towards more contemporary operas. In 1979, he revived Schreker's opera \"Die Gezeichneten\" there, which had premiered in Frankfurt in 1918. During his time in Frankfurt, later called the \"Gielen Era\", he collaborated with stage directors such as Hans Neuenfels for Verdi's Aida and Ruth Berghaus for Wagner's \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\". The time was described as the Ära Gielen/Zehelein (Gielen/Zehelein era) and made Frankfurt an internationally recognised opera.\n\nGielen was also principal conductor of the Belgian National Orchestra (1969–73) and the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra (1980–86). He was from 1986 to 1999 the conductor of the SWF Sinfonieorchester Baden-Baden (Southwest German Radio Symphony Orchestra), and made it known as the leading orchestra for premieres, notably at the Donaueschinger Musiktage. From 1991, he collaborated in Berlin with the Staatsoper Unter den Linden and the Berliner Sinfonie-Orchester (now Konzerthausorchester Berlin).\n\nHe demonstrated a mastery of the most complex contemporary scores, and conducted many premieres, including Helmut Lachenmann's \"Fassade\" and \"Klangschatten – mein Saitenspiel\", György Ligeti's \"Requiem\", and Karlheinz Stockhausen's \"Carré\". He premiered Zimmermann's \"Requiem für einen jungen Dichter\" in Düsseldorf in 1969. In 1973 he recorded Schoenberg's opera \"Moses und Aron\", used as a soundtrack for the film \"Moses und Aron\".\n\nIn October 2014, Gielen announced his retirement from conducting for health reasons, particularly seriously deteriorated eyesight. He died in Mondsee, Austria, on 8 March 2019 of pneumonia.\n\nGielen began to compose in 1946, and kept composing throughout his career as a conductor. He was influenced by the tradition of the Second Viennese School, and his small oeuvre includes settings of poems by Hans Arp, Paul Claudel, Stefan George, and Pablo Neruda. His \"Die Glocken sind auf falscher Spur\" after Hans Arp was premiered in 1970 with soprano Joan Carroll, cellist Siegfried Palm, pianist Aloys Kontarsky, Wilhelm Bruck, Christoph Caskel and the composer at the Saarländischer Rundfunk festival, \"Musik im 20.Jahrhundert\" His string quartet \"Un vieux souvenir\" after Baudelaire's \"Les Fleurs du mal\", composed from 1983, was premiered in 1985 in Cincinnati by the LaSalle Quartet.\n\nHis compositions are listed by the Akademie der Künste:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996366", "title": "New Hampshire Route 111", "text": "New Hampshire Route 111\n\nNew Hampshire Route 111 (abbreviated NH 111) is a east–west highway in Hillsborough and Rockingham counties in southeastern New Hampshire. The road runs from the Massachusetts border at Hollis to North Hampton on the Atlantic shore.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 111 is at the Massachusetts state line in Hollis, where, as Massachusetts Route 111 (Nashua Road), the road continues into the town of Pepperell, Massachusetts. The eastern terminus of NH 111 is at the junction with Ocean Boulevard (New Hampshire Route 1A) in North Hampton. At its terminus, the road is known as Atlantic Avenue.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 111's western terminus is at the Massachusetts state line at the southeastern corner of the town of Hollis, New Hampshire. The roadway continues to the south as Massachusetts Route 111. Eastbound NH 111 continues in a mostly northeasterly direction along Runnels Bridge Road, crossing the Nashua River about 1/2 mile from the border, and passing the Overlook Country Club. Immediately after the Nashua River bridge, NH 111A leaves to the east along Groton Road. NH 111 crosses into the city of Nashua, and the name changes to West Hollis Street. In Nashua, the route parallels the Nashua River's south bank, moving through the suburban southwestern quadrant of the city. At U.S. Route 3, a complex interchange involves the U.S. Route 3 freeway, NH 111, the eastern terminus of NH 111A (now called Main Dunstable Road), and several local streets. Leaving the interchange, NH 111 splits into two one-way streets, with West Hollis Street carrying westbound 111, and Kinsley Street carrying eastbound 111. St. Joseph Hospital lies along this stretch. After crossing Main Street and passing Nashua City Hall and Southern New Hampshire Medical Center, the two one-way streets merge again onto East Hollis Street. Going through an industrial part of East Nashua, still following the south bank of the Nashua River, NH 111 crosses the twin-span Taylor Falls/Veterans Memorial bridges over the Merrimack River (known locally as the Hudson Bridge) into the town of Hudson.\n\nTraversing Hudson Village along with NH 102 and intersecting NH 3A, the route goes east following Ferry Street and Burnham Road, before turning northeast along Central Street, one of the main commercial areas of the town of Hudson. In the village of Hudson Center, NH 111 passes the former site of Benson's Wild Animal Farm, now a town park known as Benson Park. Passing through an industrial area of eastern Hudson, NH 111 enters Windham shortly before crossing Mammoth Road/NH 128. NH 111 crosses through the middle of the town of Windham, known locally as Haverhill Road (west of the town center) and Indian Rock Road (east of the town center). An interchange with I-93 lies near Canobie Lake Park as well as the northern terminus of the central NH 111A. After intersecting with Rockingham Road/NH 28 the route turns to a more northerly direction, and crosses into the extreme northern part of Salem. Briefly entering the extreme southeastern corner of Derry near Island Pond, it passes through the northwest corner of the town of Atkinson, then enters the town of Hampstead.\n\nWithin Hampstead, NH 111 forms the main southwest-northeast road through town, crossing NH 121 in the southern part of town, and NH 121A in the northeastern, more commercial part of town, an area known as East Hampstead. At the Danville town line the route intersects the eastern NH 111A. NH 111 continues east to enter the town of Kingston, where the road ends at a T-intersection with NH 125. NH 111 joins NH 125 northbound, acting as a bypass of Main Street and the Kingston town center. NH 107 joins the bypass near the Kingston Fairways Golf Club, then NH 111 leaves the multiplex at the north end of Main Street, and follows Exeter Road northeast out of Kingston, into the town of Exeter.\n\nUpon entering Exeter, NH 111 becomes Kingston Road and approaches the downtown area from the southwest. Within downtown, it is known as Front Street. After crossing the campus of Phillips Exeter Academy, it joins NH 27 at Water Street (an intersection which serves as the terminus of the eastern NH 111A), and NH 108/Court Street and crosses a bridge over the Exeter River. Upon crossing the bridge, the three routes are now known as High Street, and continue towards the southeastern corner of town. Immediately after the bridge, NH 108 leaves to the north. Just before leaving town, there is a short concurrency with NH 88, then NH 111 leaves NH 27 along Exeter Road, and interchanges with NH 101. Leaving Exeter, NH 111 crosses a few dozen feet of the southern corner of Stratham, providing access to a small industrial park. Next entering the town of North Hampton, Exeter Road/NH 111 passes over, but does not interchange with, I-95. A complex five-way intersection lies near the center of North Hampton, with NH 111 crossing NH 151 and Hobbs Road. NH 111 turns southeast here along Atlantic Avenue, crossing US 1 and terminating at the Atlantic Ocean on Ocean Boulevard/NH 1A, in the area known as Little Boars Head.\n\nThe portion of NH 111 between New Hampshire Route 27 in Hampton and NH 1A in Hampton Beach was once designated New Hampshire Route 101D.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 111A is a designation held by three separate state highways in New Hampshire. Although none of the segments directly connect, all three roadways are linked by their parent, New Hampshire Route 111.\n\nThe western segment of NH 111A is a northeast–southwest loop road in Hollis and Nashua in Hillsborough County. The segment is signed east–west.\n\nThe eastern terminus is in Nashua at NH 111, west of the point where NH 111 and U.S. Route 3 meet. At that location, NH 111A is known as Main Dunstable Road. The western terminus is at NH 111 approximately north of the Massachusetts state line in Hollis. At that location, NH 111A is called South Depot Road.\n\nThe middle segment of NH 111A is a northeast–southwest highway between Pelham in Hillsborough County and Windham in Rockingham County. It is signed as an east–west highway.\n\nThe southern, officially western, terminus is in the town of Pelham at New Hampshire Route 128 (Mammoth Road) approximately north of the Massachusetts state line. At this point, the road is named Marsh Road. The northern, signed eastern, terminus of the highway is in the town of Windham at NH 111 between Cobbetts Pond and Canobie Lake. At this point, the road is known as Range Road.\n\nThe eastern segment of NH 111A is a northeast–southwest highway between Danville and Exeter in Rockingham County. It is signed as an east–west highway.\n\nThe eastern terminus of this segment of NH 111A is in Exeter at NH 111 on the west side of String Bridge. At this location, NH 111A is named Water Street. The western terminus is in Danville at NH 111. At that location, the road is known as Main Street.\n"}
{"id": "1996367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996367", "title": "Comparison of web template engines", "text": "Comparison of web template engines\n\nThe following table lists the various Web Template Engines used in Web template systems and a brief rundown of their features.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996369", "title": "New Hampshire Route 130", "text": "New Hampshire Route 130\n\nNew Hampshire Route 130 (abbreviated NH 130) is a secondary east–west state highway in New Hampshire. The road runs between Brookline and Nashua, passing through the town of Hollis in the middle.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 130 is at the junction with New Hampshire Route 13 in Brookline as Milford Street. The eastern terminus of NH 130 is in Nashua at New Hampshire Route 101A (Amherst Street), at which point NH 130 is named Broad Street.\n"}
{"id": "1996371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996371", "title": "New Hampshire Route 101", "text": "New Hampshire Route 101\n\nNew Hampshire Route 101 (NH 101) is a state-maintained highway in southern New Hampshire extending from Keene to Hampton Beach. It is the major east–west highway in the southern portion of the state.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 101 is in Keene at the junction with New Hampshire Routes 9, 10 and 12. The eastern terminus is in Hampton Beach at the junction with Ocean Boulevard (NH 1A). The total length of NH 101 is . However, the New Hampshire Department of Transportation has installed mileposts on the freeway section east of Interstate 93 that begin at mile 100. The eastern half of the road, from Bedford to Hampton, is a freeway except for the easternmost two miles, while the western half from Keene to Bedford is a mixture of two- and four-lane roads, town streets, and a super two segment which bypasses the town centers of Milford and Amherst.\n\nNH 101 travels through the following municipalities (west to east): Keene, Marlborough, Dublin, Peterborough, Temple, Wilton, Milford, Amherst, Bedford, Manchester, Auburn, Candia, Raymond, Epping, Brentwood, Exeter, Stratham, and Hampton.\n\nBetween Exeter and Hampton, NH 101 is known as the Exeter–Hampton Expressway.\n\nThere are two current and three former auxiliary routes for NH 101. The ones which remain are NH 101A, which connects Milford and Nashua, and NH 101E, which parallels the main route in Hampton.\n\nNH 101 is a two-lane surface road from its western terminus in Keene to the western terminus of New Hampshire Route 101A in Milford. From there, NH 101 splits off to the south and becomes a two-lane limited-access highway that bypasses Milford and Amherst, becoming a two-lane surface road just north of Amherst. At the southern terminus of New Hampshire Route 114 in Bedford, NH 101 becomes a four-lane limited-access highway. It expands to six lanes upon merging with Interstate 293 in Manchester, and eight lanes upon merging with Interstate 93. East of I-93, NH 101 narrows to four lanes. The route remains a four-lane freeway until exit 12 (Interstate 95) in Hampton, where NH 101 becomes a two-lane expressway at exit 13. At an interchange with U.S. Route 1, it becomes a two-lane surface road to its terminus in Hampton Beach.\n\nMost of the eastern section of NH 101 was originally going to be part of the cancelled New England East–West Highway from Albany, New York, to Portsmouth. Because of the cancellation, NH 101 remained a two-lane freeway until the mid-1990s. This highly traveled road had numerous accidents, prominently advertised on large signs at the start of the two-lane freeway segment between exits 5 and 6 in Raymond, which read, \"XX Highway Deaths next XX miles.\" Locally, this road was known as the Highway of Death for the unusually high number of accidents and the sign advertising. In the mid-1990s, the two-lane freeway segment was dualized over much of the swampland it traversed in Rockingham County, creating a full divided controlled access freeway between Manchester and I-95. The old Highway of Death nickname and the signs have disappeared from use.\n\nIn 1991, an overpass was constructed over North Road in Brentwood near the Rockingham County Jail Farm for the future routing of NH 101. However, the NH 101 expressway was not built in this area until 2000, giving the bridge the nickname the \"bridge to nowhere\".\n\nSeveral portions of the highway have been named after prominent figures by the state legislature. According to the state Department of Transportation, the portion from Keene to the Merrimack River was named the Horace Greeley Highway in 1949. The name Robert C. Erler Highway was given to the stretch of highway \"from a beginning point at the Auburn-Candia town line to the Raymond-Epping town line\" in 1981. Erler was a former Raymond town selectman and state legislator. In 1995, the name Jay McDuffee Highway was given to the stretch \"from the Epping/Raymond town line to its terminus in Hampton.\"\n\nNH 101 between New Hampshire Route 108 in Stratham, just east of the Exeter town line, to New Hampshire Route 1A in Hampton Beach was opened in 1963 as the Exeter-Hampton Expressway. It was marked with seemingly unique round shields featuring the highway's name, and was later designated New Hampshire Route 51 during the 1980s until October 1994.\n\nDuring this time, NH 101 exited the expressway at NH 108 (exit 11) and formed a concurrency with NH 108 north to the community of Stratham. After traversing a traffic circle, NH 101 split from NH 108 and followed the current alignment of New Hampshire Route 33 into downtown Portsmouth, where NH 101 terminated at U.S. Route 1.\n\nOn NH 51, there were two traffic lights located on the limited access two-lane highway: the east-end lights at the terminus of New Hampshire Route 88 southeast of exit 11 and the west-end lights west of the Newfields (then-New Hampshire Route 85) exit with what is now New Hampshire Route 27. While NH 88 was rerouted on a new stretch of road to intersect with NH 108 just south of the NH 101/108 SPUI interchange at exit 11, the Newfields exit was upgraded to a full diamond interchange. NH 27 west of Stratham was formerly NH 101 prior to the completion of the four-lane bypass.\n\nIn the fall of 1994, the eastern terminus of NH 101 was shifted eight miles (13 km) south from Portsmouth to its current terminus in Hampton Beach, replacing NH 51 along the Super-2 between Exeter and Hampton Beach. Old NH 101 between Stratham and downtown Portsmouth became NH 33 and the NH 51 designation was eliminated.\n\nNew Hampshire 101 has long been proposed as a part of the greater East–West Highway, which would provide upgraded freeway connections across the three Northern New England states (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont). Some early proposals suggested that the route be part of the Interstate Highway System as Interstate 92, but these were rejected. More recent proposals suggested that the entire route could be part of a privately maintained toll road.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 101A (abbreviated NH 101A) is a east–west highway in Hillsborough County, New Hampshire, connecting Milford and Nashua. It also runs through Merrimack and Amherst, and very briefly touches Hollis.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 101A is in western Milford at the intersection with NH 101. The eastern terminus is in the center of Nashua, when it meets New Hampshire Route 111 at the Merrimack River. Most of it is two lanes in each direction, sometimes with a central turning lane.\n\nRoute 101A is quite busy by southern New Hampshire standards, with traffic ranging from 26,000 vehicles per weekday in Nashua to 9,000 in western Milford. \n\nThe road carries a number of names. In Milford it is Elm Street and then Nashua Street; in Amherst and Merrimack it is the Milford Road or, more commonly, just 101A; in Nashua it is Amherst Street. There is some confusion over the eastern terminus; Google Maps shows the route continuing to the Taylor Falls Bridge and ending at the bridge, while the Official New Hampshire Route Map shows the route ending at the eastern terminus of Amherst Street, where it meets Main Street and Concord Street.. Local signage also stops at the end of Amherst Street.\nNew Hampshire Route 101B was a designation once held by two separate state highways in New Hampshire. Although the two segments did not directly connect, they were linked at the time by their parent route, New Hampshire Route 101.\n\nThe western segment of NH 101B was a roughly east–west road in the Manchester area. The western terminus of the route was at U.S. Route 3 and New Hampshire Route 28 in Hooksett, the current western terminus of New Hampshire Route 27. The eastern terminus was at NH 101 near Candia.\n\nAll of the western segment of NH 101B was renumbered NH 27 at an unknown time.\n\nThe eastern segment of NH 101B was a short east–west road in downtown Portsmouth. The western terminus was at the intersection of Islington Street and Middle Road, where NH 101, which followed the present alignment of New Hampshire Route 33 into Portsmouth, departed the routing of NH 33 and followed Islington Street to U.S. Route 1. NH 101B continued east on Middle Road and South Street, following the modern alignment of NH 33 to the present eastern terminus of NH 33 at US 1. At US 1, NH 101B continued east on South Street, running along the local street to its eastern terminus at New Hampshire Route 1B.\n\nPrior to 1971, NH 101B from Islington Street east to US 1 became NH 101 while Islington Street and the portion of NH101B east of US 1 reverted to city maintenance. This section of NH 101 was renumbered to NH 33 in 1994.\nNew Hampshire Route 101C ran from NH 108 east along what is now NH 27 to NH 1A in Hampton Beach.\nThe portion of NH 111 between New Hampshire Route 27 in Hampton and NH 1A in Hampton Beach was once designated New Hampshire Route 101D.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 101E is a short stretch of urban road in length in Hampton, Rockingham County, New Hampshire. This road connects Lafayette Road (U.S. Route 1) with Ocean Boulevard (New Hampshire Route 1A). NH 101E is locally named Winnacunnet Road. Oddly, this highway has never connected with NH 101, its \"parent\", or any of its spurs. The entire route is maintained by the town of Hampton.\n\nNH 101E is very poorly signed. There exist guide signs at the eastern terminus at NH 1A, but along the road itself, there is no signage to indicate the route's number. It is not known as \"Route 101E\" to local residents; they refer to it as \"Winnacunnet Road.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1996372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996372", "title": "New Hampshire Route 114", "text": "New Hampshire Route 114\n\nNew Hampshire Route 114 (abbreviated NH 114) is a secondary north–south highway in central New Hampshire. The highway runs between Bedford in Hillsborough County and Grantham in Sullivan County.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 114 is at New Hampshire Route 101 in Bedford. The northern terminus is at New Hampshire Route 10 in Grantham. The highway maintains a northwest-southeast alignment from Bedford northward.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 114A (abbreviated NH 114A) is a north–south highway in Hillsborough County in southeast New Hampshire. The highway connects downtown Manchester with Goffstown.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 114A is at U.S. Route 3 and New Hampshire Route 3A in Manchester on the west side of the Merrimack River. The northern terminus is at the junction with New Hampshire Route 114 in Goffstown. The route maintains a northwest–southeast routing for its entire length.\n"}
{"id": "1996374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996374", "title": "Tales of the Inexpressible", "text": "Tales of the Inexpressible\n\nTales of the Inexpressible is Shpongle's second album, released in 2001. Simon Posford and Raja Ram hone and expand the style introduced on their debut album, \"Are You Shpongled?\". Raja Ram plays Spanish and East Asian instruments along with the flute, and Simon Posford plays classical guitar as well as synthesizing and sampling.\n\nThe song \"Room 23\" appears on the back cover of the album with the name \"Room 2ॐ\", the character \"ॐ\" being the Om, the sacred eternal sound in Hinduism. A remastered, super-deluxe edition of \"Tales of the Inexpressible\" was released on 26 February 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996387", "title": "Dan Corneliusson", "text": "Dan Corneliusson\n\nDan Corneliusson (born 2 October 1961) is a former Swedish footballer. He had a major part in IFK Göteborg winning the 1982 UEFA Cup. The same year he became the top goal scorer in Allsvenskan.\n\nCorneliusson also played for Qviding FIF, VfB Stuttgart, Como, and Malmö FF.\n\nHe was capped 22 times for Sweden, scoring 12 goals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996420", "title": "Willem van Otterloo", "text": "Willem van Otterloo\n\nJan Willem van Otterloo (27 December 190727 July 1978) was a Dutch conductor, cellist and composer.\n\nVan Otterloo was born in Winterswijk, Gelderland, in the Netherlands, the son of William Frederik van Otterloo, a railway inspector, and his wife Anna Catharina van Otterloo (née Enderlé). He qualified to study medicine at Utrecht University but switched to studying cello and composition at the Amsterdam Conservatoire. While playing as a cellist in the Utrecht Stedelijk Orkest, he won a composition prize from the Concertgebouw Orchestra for his \"Suite No. 3\", which he presented in his 1932 conducting debut, also with that orchestra. He held posts with the Utrecht Stedelijk Orkest, before being appointed chief conductor of the Residentie Orkest in The Hague (1949–1973).\n\nHe spent his last 11 years in Australia. From 1967 to 1970 he was chief conductor of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra and in 1971 he was appointed chief conductor of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, where he remained for the rest of his life.\n\nParticularly prized for his performances of 19th and 20th-century music, he made numerous commercial recordings, mostly for Philips Records, with Residentie Orkest, Concertgebouworkest, Berlin Philharmonic, Vienna Philharmonic, Vienna Symphony, Orchestre Lamoureux and (on much rarer occasions) the Sydney Symphony.\n\nHe died in the Melbourne suburb of East St Kilda in 1978 from injuries suffered in an automobile accident. His body was flown to The Hague for cremation.\n\nHis notable students include Graham George and Miroslav Miletić.\n\nVan Otterloo was married and divorced four times in the Netherlands. He married Elisabeth ter Hoeve on 1 August 1935 (divorce 1938). On 22 April 1941 he married Anette Jacoba Adriana Heukers, with whom in December of that year he had a son, Rogier van Otterloo (1941–1988), who would become a well-known conductor in the Netherlands as well. He and Anette divorced in April 1943, but remarried 28 April 1944. They would have another son and two daughters, but divorced again on 20 September 1954. Ten days later he married Susanne Maria Anna Wildmann with whom he had another daughter. A month after his fourth divorce, he married Carola Gertie Ludewig (born 1945) on 12 August 1970 in Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996424", "title": "Hyalite", "text": "Hyalite\n\nHyalite is a form of opal with a glassy and clear appearance which may exhibit an internal play of colors if natural inclusions are present. It is also called \"Muller's glass\", \"water opal\" and \"jalite\". The name Müller's glass derived from the name of its discoverer, Franz-Joseph Müller von Reichenstein. \n\nHyalite's Mohs hardness is 5.5 to 6 and has a specific gravity of 1.9 - 2.1. It has no planes of cleavage but fractures conchoidally, is clear or translucent and has a globular structure. Its luster is vitreous and its streak is white. Hyalite is an amorphous form of silica (SiO) formed as a volcanic sublimate in volcanic or pegmatic rock and is therefore considered a mineraloid. It contains 3 - 8% water, either as a silanol group or in molecular form. \n\nOpalescent hyalite is used in jewellery, and well-formed samples are of interest to collectors due to their unusual appearance, mode of formation and relative rarity. It is sometimes mistaken for resin opal or silica glass since they both may appear clear and globular, but it can be identified under ultraviolet light due to its bright green fluorescence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996428", "title": "Sutherland (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Sutherland (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSutherland was a Scottish constituency of the House of Commons of the Parliament of Great Britain from 1708 to 1801 and of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1801 to 1918. \nThe British parliamentary constituency was created in 1708 following the Acts of Union, 1707 and replaced the former Parliament of Scotland shire constituency of Sutherlandshire.\n\nThe constituency represented essentially the traditional county of Sutherland. The county town of Dornoch, however, was represented as a component of the Tain Burghs constituency, from 1708 to 1832, and of the Wick Burghs constituency, from 1832 to 1918. \n\nThe constituency elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system until the seat was abolished in 1918.\n\nInnes' death caused a by-election.\n\nHoward resigned by accepting the office of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, causing a by-election.\n\nDundas was appointed Solicitor General for Scotland, requiring a by-election.\n\nDundas was appointed Judge Advocate General of the Armed Forces, requiring a by-election.\n\nSutherland-Leveson-Gower succeeded to the peerage, becoming 3rd Duke of Sutherland, and causing a by-election.\n\nDundas resigned, causing a by-election.\n\nSutherland was appointed Chairman of the Fishery Board for Scotland, causing a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n"}
{"id": "1996430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996430", "title": "Computer fraud", "text": "Computer fraud\n\nComputer fraud is a cybercrime and the act of using a computer to take or alter electronic data, or to gain unlawful use of a computer or system. In the United States, computer fraud is specifically proscribed by the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which criminalizes computer-related acts under federal jurisdiction. Types of computer fraud include:\n\n\nPhishing, social engineering, viruses, and DDoS attacks are fairly well-known tactics used to disrupt service or gain access to another's network, but this list is not inclusive.\n\nThe Melissa Virus appeared on thousands of email systems on 26 March 1999. It was disguised in each instance as an important message from a colleague or friend. The virus was designed to send an infected email to the first 50 email addresses on the users’ Microsoft Outlook address book. Each infected computer would infect 50 additional computers, which in turn would infect another 50 computers. The virus proliferated rapidly and exponentially, resulting in substantial interruption and impairment of public communications and services. Many system administrators had to disconnect their computer systems from the Internet. Companies such as Microsoft, Intel, Lockheed Martin and Lucent Technologies were forced to shut down their email gateways due to the vast number of emails the virus was generating. The Melissa virus is the most costly outbreak to date, causing more than $400 million in damages to North American businesses.\n\nAfter an investigation conducted by multiple branches of government and law enforcement, the Melissa Virus/Worm was attributed to David L. Smith, a 32-year-old New Jersey programmer, who was eventually charged with computer fraud. Smith was one of the first people ever to be prosecuted for the act of writing a virus. He was sentenced to 20 months in federal prison and was fined $5,000. In addition, he was also ordered to serve three years of supervised release after completion of his prison sentence. The investigation involved members of New Jersey State Police High Technology Crime Unit, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Justice Department’s Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section, and the Defense Criminal Investigative Service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996436", "title": "Russell Brand", "text": "Russell Brand\n\nRussell Edward Brand (born 4 June 1975) is an English comedian, actor, radio host, writer, and activist.\n\nAfter beginning his career as a comedian and later becoming an MTV presenter, Brand first achieved renown in 2004 as the host of \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\", a \"Big Brother\" spin-off. In 2007, he had his first major film role in \"St Trinian's\", and the following year he landed a major role in the romantic comedy-drama \"Forgetting Sarah Marshall\"; the film led to him starring in a spin off, the rock comedy \"Get Him to the Greek\", alongside Jonah Hill in 2010. He also worked as a voice actor in the animated films \"Despicable Me\" in 2010, \"Hop\" in 2011, and \"Despicable Me 2\" in 2013, and played the title character of the 2011 remake of the romantic comedy \"Arthur\". In 2013, he released the successful stand-up special \"Messiah Complex\".\n\nSince guest editing an edition of British political weekly \"New Statesman\" in 2013, Brand has become known as a public activist and campaigner, and has spoken on a wide range of political and cultural issues, including wealth inequality, addiction, corporate capitalism, climate change, and media bias. In 2014, Brand launched his political-comedy web series \"The Trews\", released a book entitled \"Revolution\", and began work on a documentary about financial inequality with Michael Winterbottom.\n\nOver the course of his career, Brand has been the subject of frequent media coverage and controversy for issues such as his promiscuity and drug use, his outrageous behaviour at various award ceremonies, his dismissal from MTV and resignation from the BBC, and his two-year marriage with singer Katy Perry. He has incorporated many of his controversial public antics into his comedic material. A biographical documentary called \"Brand: A Second Coming\" was released in 2015.\n\nRussell Edward Brand was born in Orsett Hospital in Grays, Essex, England. He is the only child of Barbara Elizabeth (\"née\" Nichols) and photographer Ronald Henry Brand. Brand's parents separated when he was six months old, and he was raised by his mother.\n\nWhen Brand was 8, his mother contracted uterine cancer and then breast cancer one year later. While she underwent treatment, Brand lived with relatives. When he was 14, he suffered from bulimia nervosa. When he was 16, he left home because of disagreements with his mother's partner. Brand then started to use illegal drugs such as cannabis, amphetamines, LSD, and ecstasy.\n\nBrand says he had a \"strange relationship\" with his father, whom he saw sporadically and who took him to visit prostitutes during a trip to Thailand when Brand was a teenager. He made his theatrical debut at the age of 15 in a school production of \"Bugsy Malone\", and then began work as a film extra. Brand attended Grays School and in 1991, he was accepted to the Italia Conti Academy and had his first year of tuition funded by Essex County Council. After his first year at Italia Conti Academy, Brand was expelled for illegal drug use and poor attendance.\n\nBrand performed stand-up at the Hackney Empire New Act of the Year final in 2000. Although he finished fourth, his performance attracted the attention of \"Bound and Gagged Comedy Ltd\" agent Nigel Klarfeld. That year, he also made his Edinburgh debut as one-third of the stand-up show \"Pablo Diablo's Cryptic Triptych\", alongside ventriloquist Mark Felgate and Anglo-Iranian comic Shappi Khorsandi. In 2004, he took his first one-man show, the confessional \"Better Now\", to the Edinburgh Festival, giving what he claimed was an honest account of his heroin addiction. He returned the following year with \"Eroticised Humour\". He launched his first nationwide tour, \"Shame\", in 2006. Brand drew on embarrassing incidents in his own life and the coverage about him in the tabloid press. The show was released on DVD as \"Russell Brand: Live\". Brand appeared in a sketch and performed stand-up at Amnesty International's \"Secret Policeman's Ball\" in 2006 and again at the 2012 edition at Radio City Music Hall.\n\nIn March 2007, he co-hosted an evening of the Teenage Cancer Trust gigs with Noel Fielding. In December 2007, Brand performed for Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip as an act in the 2007 Royal Variety Performance. His second nationwide tour, in 2007, was called \"Russell Brand: Only Joking\" and released on DVD as \"Russell Brand: Doin' Life\". Brand began performing in the US, and recorded a special for Comedy Central titled \"Russell Brand in New York\", which aired in March 2009. Brand began touring the UK, America and Australia from January to on a tour called \"Russell Brand: Scandalous\". In October, a further four dates that were performed in November were added to raise money for Focus 12, the drug charity for which Brand is a patron.\n\nIn 2013, Brand presented and toured his comedy show \"Messiah Complex\", in which he tackled advertising, the laws on drug addiction and the portrayal of his heroes, such as Gandhi, Guevara, Malcolm X and Jesus, and how he is, in comically contrived ways, similar to them.\n\nIn January 2017, Brand announced his new tour \"Re:Birth\", which debuted in April 2017 and was meant to go through November 2018. However, on 30 April 2018, he was forced to cancel the remaining dates after his mother was critically injured in a hit-and-run accident. \"\", which was filmed in London in April 2018, was released as a standup comedy film on Netflix on 4 December 2018.\n\nOver the years, Brand has named Richard Pryor, Bill Hicks, Peter Cook, Lenny Bruce, Tony Hancock, Jack Kerouac, Stewart Lee, Tenacious D, Eddie Murphy, and Monty Python among his comedic influences. In 2009 he appeared in the television documentary, \"\".\n\nBrand's first presenting role came in 2000 as a video journalist on MTV. He presented \"Dancefloor Chart\", touring nightclubs in Britain and Ibiza, and hosted the tea-time request show \"Select\". Brand was fired several days after coming to work dressed as Osama bin Laden the day after the 11 September 2001 attacks and bringing his drug dealer to the MTV studios.\nAfter leaving MTV, Brand starred in \"\", a documentary and comedy television program that aimed to take a challenging look at cultural taboos. It was conceived, written, and hosted by Brand, with the help of his comic partner on many projects, Matt Morgan. The series was shown on the now-defunct digital satellite channel UK Play in 2002.\n\nIn 2004, he hosted \"Big Brother's Eforum\" on E4, a sister show to \"Big Brother 5\". The show gave celebrity guests and the public the chance to have their say on the goings-on inside the \"Big Brother\" house. For \"Big Brother 6\", the show's name changed to \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\". Following \"Celebrity Big Brother 5\", Brand said he would not return to host the \"Big Brother 8\" series of \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\". In a statement, Brand thanked all the producers for \"taking the risk of employing an ex-junkie twerp\" to front the show. Of his time presenting the show, he said, \"The three years I've spent on \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\" have been an unprecedented joy\". Brand hosted a one-off special called \"Big Brother According to Russell Brand\", in which Brand took a surreal, sideways look at \"Big Brother\" through the ages. On 8 January 2008, Brand was the fifth celebrity to \"hijack\" the Big Brother house, in the E4 show \"\".\n\nBrand next returned to MTV in the spring of 2006 as presenter of the chat show, \"1 Leicester Square\", which had its broadcast time revised to allow for a more adult-oriented theme. Guests included Tom Cruise, Uma Thurman, The Mighty Boosh, and Boy George, and a second series began in September 2006 on MTV. After \"Big Brother 7\" finished, Brand presented a debate show called \"Russell Brand's Got Issues\", on E4. The viewing figures for the first episode were seen as disappointing, being beaten by nearly all of E4's main multi-channel rivals, despite a big publicity and promotional campaign for the show. The poor ratings prompted the network to repackage the show as \"The Russell Brand Show\" and move it to Channel 4. The first episode was broadcast on on Channel 4, and it ran for five weeks.\n\nBrand presented the 2006 NME Awards. At the ceremony Bob Geldof, who was accepting an award from Brand, said at the podium, \"Russell Brand – what a cunt\", to which Brand replied, \"Really, it's no surprise [Geldof]'s such an expert on famine. He has, after all, been dining out on 'I Don't Like Mondays' for 30 years.\" Brand hosted the 2007 BRIT Awards and presented Oasis with an \"Outstanding Contribution to Music\" award at the event. He also hosted one hour of Comic Relief. On 7 July 2007, he presented at the UK leg of Live Earth at Wembley Stadium, London.\nOn 12 December 2007, BBC Four aired \"Russell Brand On the Road\", a documentary presented by Brand and Matt Morgan about the writer Jack Kerouac and his novel \"On the Road\". Brand returned to Channel 4 to host \"Russell Brand's Ponderland\", in which he discussed topics like childhood and science through stand-up comedy. The show first aired on 22 October 2007 and continued for the next five nights. A second series began on 30 October 2008. The show ran for 12 episodes over the two series. Brand was later announced as the host of the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs), which drew scepticism from the American media, as he was relatively unknown to the American public. Brand's appearance led to controversy for numerous reasons. He said the night \"marked the launch of a very new Britney Spears era\", referring to it as \"the resurrection of [Spears]\". He also said, \"If there was a female Christ, it's Britney\". Brand implored the audience to elect Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama and later called then–U.S. President George W. Bush \"a retarded cowboy fella\", who, in England, \"wouldn't be trusted with scissors\". He also made several references to the purity rings worn by the Jonas Brothers, but apologised for the comments later in the show.\n\nHis comments at the 2008 MTV VMAs led to Brand receiving death threats from some offended viewers. Brand claimed that MTV asked him to host the 2009 awards after the ratings for the 2008 show were 20 percent higher than the previous year. Also in 2008, Brand hosted a one-off stand up comedy show called \"Comedy Live Presents: Russell Brand and Friends\", which was shown on Channel 4 on 25 January 2008. Brand returned to host the 2009 MTV VMAs, on 13 September 2009, at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. The ratings for the 2009 show were the best since the 2004 VMAs. On 12 February 2011, Brand guest hosted an episode of the hit American sketch comedy \"Saturday Night Live\". He also hosted the 2012 MTV VMAs.\n\nWhile still a teenager, Brand appeared in 1994 episodes of \"The Bill\" and the children's adventure series \"Mud\". In 2002, Brand appeared on the TV shows \"Cruise of the Gods\" and \"White Teeth\". In 2005, he played Tommy in the BBC sitcom \"Blessed\", which was written and directed by \"Young Ones\" co-writer Ben Elton. Brand auditioned for the part of Super Hans in the Channel 4 sitcom \"Peep Show\"; the role eventually went to Matt King. In 2007, Brand appeared in \"Cold Blood\" for ITV, playing an ex-con called Ally. Brand played a recovering crack addict named Terry in the pilot for the ITV comedy \"The Abbey\", written by Morwenna Banks. He voiced an Earth Guardian in \"Robbie the Reindeer in Close Encounters of the Herd Kind\". Brand appeared in a small role in the 2006 movie \"Penelope\"; although his first major film role was as Flash Harry in the 2007 film \"St Trinian's\".\n\nBrand achieved American fame when he starred in the 2008 film \"Forgetting Sarah Marshall\", in which he played rock star Aldous Snow, the boyfriend of the title character (played by Kristen Bell). Brand received rave reviews for his performance as Snow, and he revealed the character was changed from an author to a rock star because of his audition. Brand starred alongside Adam Sandler in the Disney film \"Bedtime Stories\", which was released on 25 December 2008. He reprised the role of Aldous Snow for a buddy comedy titled \"Get Him to the Greek\", co-starring Jonah Hill. He reunited with \"Forgetting Sarah Marshall\" director Nicholas Stoller and producer Judd Apatow for the film.\n\nBrand starred in Julie Taymor's 2010 version of William Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\", as Trinculo. In 2010, Brand voiced Dr. Nefario in the Universal movie \"Despicable Me\", and reprised the role in the 2013 sequel. Brand also guest starred in \"The Simpsons\" episode \"\" as himself. Brand also starred in the April 2011 live action/CGI animated film \"Hop\" with James Marsden, voicing the film's protagonist E.B. \"Hop\" opened at number one at the Friday box office in the US, earning $11.4 million. The same month, he played the title character in a remake of \"Arthur\", written by Peter Baynham, which was a box office disappointment. Brand starred as Lonny in a film adaptation of the 1980s-set musical \"Rock Of Ages\", released in cinemas in June 2012.\n\nAfter appearing as William Carr in the Diablo Cody film \"Paradise\" (2013), Brand went on hiatus from acting. His return role was as Creek in the DreamWorks animated film \"Trolls\" (2016), followed by his portrayal of God in the comedy \"Army of One\" (2016) with Nicolas Cage. In 2018, he portrayed Sports X Network founder Lance Klians in a recurring arc on the HBO series \"Ballers\".\n\nOther projects Brand has been tied to include a remake of \"Drop Dead Fred\", an Adam Sandler-produced film about a con-man posing as a priest tentatively entitled \"Bad Father\", co-written by Brand and Matt Morgan; and a film adaptation of the children's television programme \"Rentaghost\" a project that was picked up by Fox Studios in 2011 with Ben Stiller attached.\n\nAs of October 2008, Brand's own production company is called Vanity Projects. The company's most recent production, \"Russell Brand Doing Life\", was released in 2009.\nBrand also established his own production company in 2011 with friend Nik Linnen. Called 'Branded Films', the company operates from the Warner Bros. studios in Burbank, California, United States. The company's primary focus is to develop films that Brand stars in.\n\nBrand hosted Brand X, a late-night talk show on FX, which received lukewarm reviews and middling ratings. It was cancelled after two seasons.\n\nBrand's radio career began in early 2002, when he hosted a Sunday afternoon show with Matt Morgan on London's Indie Rock station Xfm. Brand was fired from the job after reading pornographic material live on-air. In 2005, Brand co-hosted three one-off shows on BBC Radio 6 Music with Karl Pilkington. Brand then co-hosted \"The Russell Brand Show\" beginning in on BBC Radio 6 Music. In November 2006, the show transferred to BBC Radio 2 and aired on Saturdays from 9–11 pm. The show regularly drew about 400,000 listeners. In an episode of the show broadcast on 18 October 2008, Brand and fellow Radio 2 DJ Jonathan Ross made a series of phone calls to actor Andrew Sachs in which Brand alleged on air that he had had sex with Sachs' granddaughter. Sunday tabloid \"The Mail on Sunday\" broke the story and regarded the phone calls as obscene. Both presenters were later suspended by the BBC because of the incident, and Brand resigned from his show. The BBC was later fined £150,000 by Ofcom, Britain's broadcast regulator for airing the calls.\n\nBrand returned to radio when he and Noel Gallagher hosted a one-off football talk show on 19 April 2009 for Talksport. Brand returned to Talksport on 9 October 2010, with a Saturday night show that lasted 20 weeks. The show featured clips and back-stage recordings from his \"Booky Wook 2\" promotional tour. Brand was joined by a host of guests, including Noel Gallagher and Jonathan Ross.\n\nBrand launched a twice weekly podcast called \"The Russell Brand Podcast\" on 25 February 2015, through audioBoom. The podcast reunited Brand with his radio presenting team of Matt Morgan and poet Mr Gee. The podcast ended after 24 episodes. In 2017 Brand launched a new podcast called \"Under the Skin with Russell Brand\" which has him interviewing guests from the world of academia, popular culture and the arts.\n\nBrand's first autobiography, \"My Booky Wook\", was released on 15 November 2007 and received favourable reviews. Andrew Anthony from \"The Observer\" commented that \"Russell Brand's gleeful tale of drugs and debauchery in \"My Booky Wook\" puts most other celebrity memoirs to shame\". The second book, \"\", was released on 30 September 2010. Brand signed a £1.8 million two-book deal with HarperCollins in June 2008. The first book, \"Articles of Faith\", examined Brand's philosophy and consisted of a collection of columns from \"The Guardian\" that first appeared there in 2007 and 2008. The book was published on 16 October 2008, and also includes Brand interviewing Noel Gallagher, James Corden, and David Baddiel about football.\n\nFrom 2006 until 2009, Brand wrote a column for \"The Guardian\" that focused on West Ham United and the England national football team. A collection of the columns from 2006 and 2007 was released in a book entitled \"Irons in the Fire\". Brand continues to write articles for \"The Guardian\" that offer his perspectives on current events and pop culture, including the deaths of Amy Winehouse and Robin Williams. Following the 2011 London riots, Brand wrote a column in which he criticised the government's response to the riots in Summer 2011 as a failure to address the root causes.\n\nBrand made his children's book debut in November 2014 with \"Russell Brand's Trickster Tales: The Pied Piper of Hamelin\". It is the first instalment of an intended series, featuring illustrations by Chris Riddell. In \"The Guardian\", reviewer Lucy Mangan noted: \"The on-Brand need to be noticed is there on every page, his unwillingness to get out of the way of the story tripping the reader up at every turn\" and adding that Chris Riddell's illustrations \"give the book a beauty it does not deserve and a coherence the text does not deliver\". Nicholas Tucker, in \"The Independent\", was even less impressed, noting the book's \"wearingly offensive\" language, and writing:\nWere it not for his celebrity, this book in manuscript would surely have been returned to its author by any publisher along perhaps with some kindly advice for seeking out an anger-management course. But Brand’s take on The Pied Piper of Hamelin is the first of a series of riffs on traditional fairy and folk tales. If they are all as bad as this one, British children’s books will have hit a new low.\n\nHis book \"Revolution\", in which Brand develops his earlier ideas, was published by Random House in October 2014 and received much publicity. Nick Cohen of \"The Observer\" called Brand's writing \"atrocious: long-winded, confused and smug; filled with references to books Brand has half read and thinkers he has half understood.\" On the other hand, Steve Richards in \"The Independent\" commented: \"Brand writes and speaks with verve, words flowing effortlessly and musically. The contrast with the tame wooden prose of elected politicians is marked.\"\n\nIn September 2017 Brand published \"Recovery: Freedom from Our Addictions\". His book, \"Mentors: How To Help and Be Helped\", is due for publication in January 2019. It deals with the people who have had a positive impact on his life and encourages us to look to others to become better individuals.\n\nIn January 2009, Brand participated in a celebrity letter to \"The Independent\"—as a supporter of the Hoping Foundation—to condemn Israel's assault on Gaza, and the \"cruel and massive loss of life of the citizens of Gaza\". In February 2009, Brand and several other entertainers wrote to \"The Times\" in defence of Bahá'í leaders, who were on trial in Iran at the time. In April 2009, he attended the 2009 G-20 London summit protests and spoke to the press.\n\nBrand was selected by the Dalai Lama to host the Buddhist leader's 2012 youth event in Manchester. The Dalai Lama's representatives explained that Brand was selected because he had proved \"the power of spirituality to effect change in his own life\", while Brand stated to the BBC after the event: \"I said yes because he's the living incarnation of Buddha and I thought, if you're around the Dalai Lama, that can only be good for your spiritual quest through life. He's an amazing diplomat, an incredible activist, a wonderful human being and an inspiration to us all.\"\n\nIn April 2012, Brand testified in front of a parliamentary committee about drug addiction, sharing his experiences and view that drugs should be decriminalised. He said, \"I'm not a legal expert. I'm saying that, to a drug addict, the legal aspect is irrelevant. If you need to get drugs, you will. The criminal and legal status, I think, sends the wrong message. Being arrested isn't a lesson, it's just an administrative blip.\" Part of this testimony was included in a BBC Three documentary, \"Russell Brand: From Addiction to Recovery\", that aired in December 2012. Brand said he felt compelled to make the film after the 2011 death of close friend Amy Winehouse, and he also used the opportunity to question how British society \"deals with addicts and addiction.\"\n\nIn June 2013, Brand appeared in a video in support of Chelsea Manning.\n\nSince 2013, Brand has appeared more frequently as a campaigner for serious issues rather than an entertainer. On 23 October 2013, Brand was interviewed by Jeremy Paxman for the BBC's \"Newsnight\" and was challenged about his call for \"revolution\" and whether someone who had never voted could edit a political magazine. In the issue of the \"New Statesman\", published on 24 October 2013, Brand's essay explained his objection to the destruction of Earth through greed and exploitation, and called for a change in consciousness to accompany political and economic measures to achieve a more sustainable future. Nick Cohen in \"The Guardian\" commented about Brand: \"He writes as if he is a precocious prepubescent rather than an adolescent: a child, born after the millennium, who can behave as if we never lived through the 20th century.\"\n\nJeremy Paxman interviewed Brand on \"Newsnight\" in 2013, in which he disparaged the British political system as ineffectual and encouraged the British electorate not to vote. When asked by Paxman what a revolution would look like, Brand replied:\nBritish commentator Joan Smith dismissed Brand as the \"canny self-publicist\" who indulges in \"waffle about 'revolution'\" as \"one celebrity, I'm afraid, who's more idiot than savant.\" Former \"Independent\" editor Simon Kelner largely defended his appearance on \"Newsnight\": \"It sounded rather attractive, even if it wasn't exactly worked through. But Brand's rhetorical flourishes made up for the lack of detail\". A few months later, documentary film maker Adam Curtis, in an interview for the \"New Humanist\" magazine, questioned Brand's advocacy of not voting in elections: \"Who benefits from that? The unelected powerful, because you’re emotionally and psychologically disempowering politicians. The only power politicians have is the collective confidence we have in them. The most radical thing is to recapture the idea you can change the world.\"\n\nIn January 2014, Brand was invited by the Cambridge Union Society to participate in an interview, held in the Union's debating chamber with Leo Kirby, the Union's 2014 Speakers' Officer. The interview ran for more than an hour and was published on the Union's YouTube channel.\n\nBrand launched his YouTube series \"The Trews: True News with Russell Brand\" on 27 February 2014, in which he \"analyses the news, truthfully, spontaneously and with great risk to his personal freedom.\" In addition to news analysis, he regularly has guests on the show, including economists, journalists and activists. By the end of the year, more than 200 episodes had been released on the channel. The show was halted for nearly a year as he decided to be away from social media to focus on his personal and professional growth.\n\nIn June 2014, he took part in the People's Assembly Against Austerity, that attracted an estimated 50,000 people marching from the BBC office to Westminster. Brand addressed the crowd, saying, \"The people of this building [the House of Commons] generally speaking do not represent us, they represent their friends in big business. It's time for us to take back our power. Power isn't there, it is here, within us. The revolution that's required isn't a revolution of radical ideas, but the implementation of ideas we already have.\"\n\nIn September 2014, Brand lent his support to the Fire Brigades Union, giving a speech at the union's rally against cuts in London and asking the public to support the firefighters.\n\nIn October 2014, at the time Brand's book \"Revolution\" was published, John Lydon (also known as \"Johnny Rotten\" of the Sex Pistols), in an interview with Polly Toynbee of \"The Guardian\", said that Brand's advocacy of non-voting is \"the most idiotic thing I’ve ever heard.\" In a November 2014 YouGov poll, involving a selection of celebrities, Brand was chosen as the one with the most negative influence on political debate (46%). The poll also found that 60% of poll participants disliked him and 28% liked him.\n\nShortly afterward, Brand appeared on \"Newsnight\" again, but was interviewed by Evan Davis on this occasion. Asked about 9/11 conspiracy theories and whether the attacks were perpetuated by the American government, Brand commented: \"[w]e have to remain open-minded to [that] kind of possibility\", although this section of the interview ended with Brand insisting that he did not \"want to talk about daft conspiracy theories.\" Hadley Freeman in \"The Guardian\" mocked the opinions he expressed in the interview: \"I’m not entirely sure where he thinks he’s going to go with this revolution idea because [SPOILER!] revolution is not going to happen.\"\nBBC Three commissioned Brand to make a documentary on the global \"War on Drugs\", which aired on 26 November 2014. The film, titled \"Russell Brand: End the Drugs War\", shows him exploring the illicit drug policies of other countries in search of a compassionate approach to people who use illicit drugs. Brand said in the documentary, \"People think compassion is 'wet liberalism'; it's not, it's pragmatic\". Brand worked with the Matchlight Ltd production company, director Ross Wilson and executive producer Liz Hartford.\n\nOn 2 December 2014, Brand joined East London residents to protest over the increase in rents at the New Era housing estate. During a protest for the New Era residents, \"Channel 4 News\" reporter Paraic O'Brien continually pushed Brand to answer questions about the value of his own property, which is rented. The line of questioning irritated Brand, who ended up calling the reporter a \"snide\"—the short clip went viral on YouTube.\n\nLater that month, on 11 December, Brand appeared on the BBC's \"Question Time\" programme which included the UK Independence Party's leader Nigel Farage as one of the other panellists. Brand called Farage \"a pound shop Enoch Powell\" on-air, and the two men continued to trade insults after the programme had ended. In the wake of the \"Question Time\" episode, one journalist concluded that neither Brand nor Farage emerged victorious, with the former accused of \"preaching\", while a supporter of Brand wrote that the comedian was out of his element: \"I'm not saying he didn't make an impact. I agree with most of what he has to say, and I'm glad he was on \"Question Time\"—in the heart of the establishment—saying it. But in terms of his performance or identity, he looks caught between two stools.\"\nIn January 2015, during the television show \"Channel 4's Big Fat Anniversary Quiz\", Brand insulted politician Ed Balls. Balls responded by calling Brand a \"pound shop Ben Elton.\"\n\nIn March 2015, Brand announced he would use money from his \"Revolution\" book to open a café, the Trew Era Cafe on the New Era estate in the London Borough of Hackney, which would employ recovering drug addicts. The café opened on 26 March.\n\nIn March 2015, readers of \"Prospect\" magazine voted Brand the fourth-most influential thinker in the world, behind Thomas Piketty, Yanis Varoufakis, and Naomi Klein.\n\nBrand and director Michael Winterbottom worked together to produce a documentary, \"The Emperor's New Clothes\", that had its international premiere on 24 April 2015 at the Tribeca Film Festival. The film features archival footage with appearances by Brand in London and New York City, examining the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and global economic inequality. The documentary is produced by Brand's Revolution Films company and distributed by StudioCanal UK.\n\nOn 29 April 2015, eight days ahead of 2015 UK general election, Brand published an interview with Labour leader Ed Miliband on an episode of \"The Trews\" as part of a \"Trews Politics Week\" series. Miliband claimed that he took part to win over people like Brand who do not vote, although his opponent David Cameron deemed the entire interview a \"joke\". The following day Brand released an interview with Green Party leader Natalie Bennett and Green MP Caroline Lucas, giving his support to Lucas in Brighton advising people there to vote Green, adding that \"In most cases it don’t matter if you don’t vote Green\". He also criticised an election \"set up not to represent people's wishes\".\n\nFollowing these interviews, three days before the election, Brand released the final episode of \"The Trews Politics Week\" entitled \"Emergency: VOTE To Start Revolution\" releasing additional material from his discussion with Ed Miliband and stating \"I think we've got no choice but to take decisive action to end the danger of the Conservative party\". He dropped his anti-voting position and \"declared the importance of voting\", backing Labour and telling his fans that \"You gotta vote Labour\", although he admitted \"that he couldn't be sure of the reality of what a Labour government would mean\". Brand was not registered to vote in the 2015 election.\n\nOn 20 August 2015, Brand released episode 366 of \"The Trews\" titled \"Final Episode Of The Trews – Goodbye, Good Luck\", which he said would be the final episode of the series. The Trews returned on 12 October 2016.\n\nIn August 2015, Brand endorsed Jeremy Corbyn's campaign in the Labour Party leadership election. He said: \"Jeremy Corbyn would be a better kind of new Labour. The fear would be, can party politics ever impact the will of the people?\" In May 2017, Brand endorsed Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn in the 2017 general election he wrote in \"The Huffington Post\" that Corbyn \"has the qualities I want in a strong and stable leader\". He wrote: \"Whether it's the Iraq War or badger-baiting, Corbyn has been allied with common sense and compassion in pretty much every Parliamentary argument.\" He praised Corbyn for his long record of sticking to his principles and for standing up to the media's treatment of him. Regarding the 2015 election he said: \"You know I never actually said 'don't vote? I said 'There's no point in voting when the main political parties are basically indistinguishable and the relationship between government, big business and factions of the media make it impossible for the democratic will of the people to be realised, which is a more nuanced point and plainly true. Anyway, that was then and this is now.\"\n\nSince 2017, Brand has produced a podcast called \"Under The Skin which\" has discussions with a various of public figures and academics (e.g. Yuval Noah Harari) about a variety of topics.\n\nOn 16 September 2010, Brand was arrested on suspected battery charges after he allegedly attacked a paparazzo who blocked his and then-fiancée Katy Perry's way to catch a flight at Los Angeles International Airport. The paparazzo placed Brand under citizen's arrest until the police arrived and he was released from custody the next day after posting US$20,000 bail. On 15 March 2012, an arrest warrant was issued for Brand in New Orleans, U.S., because of allegations that he had thrown a photographer's mobile phone through a window. The paparazzo was taking pictures of Brand with an iPhone when Brand wrestled the device from his hands and tossed it at a law firm's window. The warrant cited \"simple criminal damage to property\", leading Brand, who offered to pay for the replacement of the window, to voluntarily appear at a police station. Brand was filming a movie in New Orleans at the time of the incident.\n\nBrand was ejected from the \"GQ\" Awards show on 3 September 2013 after receiving the \"Oracle\" award. In his acceptance speech, he mentioned sponsor Hugo Boss' former business making uniforms for the Nazi regime. Brand said, \"They [Nazis] did look fucking fantastic, let's face it\" before he goose stepped across the stage in a comical imitation of the Nazi march. Brand was eventually ejected from the event after \"GQ\" editor Dylan Jones confronted Brand with his view that the speech was \"very offensive\"—Brand replied by saying that the Nazis' treatment of the Jewish people was \"very offensive\". Brand was later given the opportunity to reflect on the award night on the \"Guardian\" website:\nNow I'm aware that this [\"GQ\" award speech] was really no big deal ... It was a daft joke by a daft comic at a daft event. It makes me wonder, though, how the relationships and power dynamics I witnessed on this relatively inconsequential context are replicated on a more significant scale ... Ought we be concerned that our rights to protest are being continually eroded under the guise of enhancing our safety? ... When you take a breath and look away from the spectacle it's amazing how absurd it seems when you look back.\n\nIn June 2015, the \"Daily Mail\" revealed that Brand was selling sweatshirts stated to be British-made, while they were in fact made in Bangladesh by workers earning under US$1 per hour. He said that he was unaware of this, and had terminated his relationship with the manufacturer as a result.\n\nBrand has been said to dress in a \"flamboyant bohemian fashion\" and has been diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and bipolar disorder. He also suffered from bulimia, pornography addiction, and experienced a period of self-harming. Brand has described the concept of fame \"like ashes\" in his mouth.\n\nBrand has shown interest in the Hare Krishna Movement and wrote in a 2007 \"Guardian\" column: \"I say Hare Krishna as often as possible, sometimes even when I'm not being filmed\". Additionally, during an interview on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" in October 2010, Brand talked about his love of Transcendental Meditation (TM). This love of TM was reaffirmed in a 2013 \"New Statesman\" editorial he wrote: \"Through Transcendental Meditation, twice daily I feel the bliss of the divine... I connect to a boundless consciousness that has no palpable relationship with my thoughts, fears or desires.\" He has also gravitated toward Christian spirituality and practice by daily reciting the Lord's Prayer and attempting to have Christ consciousness.\n\nIn 2011, Brand served as best man at Noel Gallagher's wedding to Sara MacDonald.\n\nBrand lives in Shoreditch, London. As of 2019, he is a vegan.\n\nBrand met singer Katy Perry in mid-2009 when she filmed a cameo for his film \"Get Him to the Greek,\" although the cameo was cut from the film. They began dating after meeting again at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards in September, when Perry threw a water bottle at his head from across the room during rehearsal. The two became engaged on New Year's Eve 2009 during a holiday in India, and married there on 23 October 2010 in a Hindu ceremony, near the Ranthambhore tiger sanctuary in Rajasthan.\n\nIn October 2011, Brand and Perry announced via Twitter that they had switched to a vegan diet after watching the documentary \"Forks Over Knives“ which explores ways that plant-based diets can reduce risks for cardiovascular disease and other chronic conditions. On 30 December 2011, Brand filed for divorce, citing irreconcilable differences, which was finalised in July 2012. Perry's July 2012 autobiographical documentary, \"\", revealed that conflicting career schedules and Perry not feeling ready to have children led to the end of their marriage. In June 2013, Perry told \"Vogue\" that Brand did not like the idea of her \"being the boss\" of things, and the last time she heard from him was 31 December 2011, when he sent her an SMS message informing her he was divorcing her.\n\nDays after his divorce was finalised, Brand told Howard Stern that he was extremely in love with Perry, but after marrying her realised \"this isn't really working out ... I was really, really in love with her, but it was difficult to see each other ... it mostly didn't work for practical reasons.\" While Stern pressed for details, Brand declined, saying, \"I don't want anything to hurt her. She’s younger than me, she’s a young woman and she’s beautiful and she’s sensitive and I care about her deeply.\" Brand, who married Perry without a prenuptial agreement, was eligible to claim half of the estimated $44 million she earned during their marriage, but declined.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2014, Brand was in a relationship with Jemima Goldsmith (f.k.a. Khan), an editor of the \"New Statesman\", and a daughter of financier James Goldsmith. In May 2014, Brand received libel damages from \"The Sun\" following a story the paper had printed in November 2013 alleging that he had cheated on Goldsmith. Brand said he would be donating the unspecified damages to the Hillsborough Justice Campaign. Brand and Goldsmith ended their relationship in September 2014.\n\nIn the October 2014 issue of \"Vanity Fair\", Brand said of the allegations of misogyny made against him: \"I have lived a life and had a frame of cultural references that make that charge quite legitimate... But as a person who’s trying to live a decent, spiritual life, misogyny is not part of my current palette of behaviors... In a way, redemption is a great part of my narrative. I’m talking about disavowing previous lives, previous beliefs, previous behaviours.\"\n\nSince 2015, Brand has been in a relationship with Scottish blogger and former restaurateur Laura Gallacher, whom he had dated off and on since 2007. Gallacher is the sister of television presenter Kirsty Gallacher. Their first daughter Mabel was born in November 2016. Brand married Gallacher in Henley-on-Thames on 26 August 2017. In July 2018, Brand and Gallacher had a second daughter named Peggy.\n\nThe media published articles on Brand during his drug-using period, typically in relation to incidents, and his public profile has since been associated with this era. Drug-related issues led to Brand's arrest on 12 occasions. Brand was ejected from the Gilded Balloon in Edinburgh, Scotland and following a subsequent show in the city in 2004, a reviewer stated that \"you'd rather hug him than hit him\", as he had embraced recovery by this point. Following the cessation of his use, Brand revealed through his stand-up performances that he introduced his drug dealer to Kylie Minogue during his time at MTV and masturbated a stranger in a public toilet for a television programme. In January 2014, Brand described his first experience with heroin as \"blissful\".\n\nBrand has abstained from drug use since 13 December 2002. He is a patron of the Focus 12 drug treatment programme after his own use of the service. Brand's sobriety was instigated by his agent, John Noel, after Brand was apprehended using heroin in a bathroom during a Christmas party. Brand cites his practice of transcendental meditation as a significant factor in his recovery from drug dependence. Brand organised three fundraisers for Focus 12 in London, Dublin and Belfast in 2009, and has also acted as a \"sponsor\" for numerous people during the rehabilitation stage of their treatment process.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996440", "title": "Klas Ingesson", "text": "Klas Ingesson\n\nKlas Inge \"Klabbe\" Ingesson (20 August 1968 – 29 October 2014) was a Swedish footballer and manager. He spent most of his career as a midfielder in Sweden, Belgium, Netherlands, England, Italy and France. Ingesson represented the Sweden national team on 57 occasions, including the 1990 and 1994 FIFA World Cup, as well as the 1992 European Championship. He was the manager of IF Elfsborg from 2013 until his death in October 2014.\n\nHe played for IFK Göteborg in Sweden, KV Mechelen in Belgium, PSV Eindhoven in the Netherlands, Sheffield Wednesday in England, Bari, Bologna and Lecce in Italy, and Marseille in France.\n\nAt Sheffield Wednesday, he encountered players \"who went straight to the pub after training but still able to run like wild animals come Saturday\".\n\nOn 30 September 2013, Ingesson was appointed manager of IF Elfsborg.\n\nAfter retiring from playing Ingesson became a lumberjack, and also appeared as a presenter on the Swedish TV programme \"Farlig Fritid\" (\"Dangerous Leisures\").\n\nOn 14 May 2009, Ingesson announced that he had been diagnosed with multiple myeloma. The treatment was at the start said to be going \"in the right direction\". Ingesson fully recovered and, on December 2010, made a football comeback by accepting an offer to guide the IF Elfsborg under-21 youth team. On 8 January 2013, Ingesson revealed that the myeloma had returned, and that he would have a stem cell transplant, as the two previous autologous (i.e. of his own stem cells) transplants had been unsuccessful.\n\nOn 29 October 2014, Ingesson died of the effects of multiple myeloma.\n\nHe was married and had two children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996468", "title": "Zvjezdan Misimović", "text": "Zvjezdan Misimović\n\nZvjezdan Misimović (, ; born 5 June 1982) is a Bosnian retired professional footballer who most notably played for Bayern Munich, VfL Wolfsburg, Galatasaray, Dynamo Moscow and Beijing Renhe as an attacking midfielder, during his active playing career. Misimović is the second most capped player in the history of the Bosnia and Herzegovina national team, capped 84 times. His 25 international goals also makes him his country's third top-goalscorer. He represented Bosnia and Herzegovina at 2014 FIFA World Cup.\n\nPrior to joining Dynamo Moscow, Misimović made a name for himself while playing for VfL Wolfsburg, with whom he won the Bundesliga in the 2008–09 season. In the same season, he accomplished 20 assists, which was the most in that season.\n\nMisimović was born to a family of Bosnian Serb gastarbeiters who came to West Germany from Bosanska Gradiška during the late 1960s.\n\nKnown in Germany as \"Zwetschge\" (a German plum) due to similar pronunciation to his first name, Misimović was a product of Bayern Munich youth academy. He played for four years with the club's reserve team, collecting 44 goals in 102 appearances. In the 2003–04 Regionalliga season, Misimović scored 21 goals, a personal best, finishing the league as top goalscorer jointly with Paolo Guerrero, his teammate.<ref name=\"2003/04\"></ref> His first and only hat-trick on club level came in a 5–1 win over SC Pfullendorf on 2 November. Bayern II won the championship, but since being a reserve side, were barred from promotion, thus allowing 1. FC Saarbrücken to be promoted to the 2004–05 2. Bundesliga.<ref name=\"2003/2004\"></ref>\n\nDuring this time, he was able to play five times for the main squad. His senior debut occurred on 12 April 2003 in a 0–1 loss to Werder Bremen, match valid for the 28th week of 2002–03 Bundesliga; he entered the match as a 78-minute substitute, replacing fellow midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger.\n\nMisimović joined VfL Bochum at the start of the 2004–05 season. He left the club at the end of 2007–08 season after his contract expired, while his move to 1. FC Nürnberg was announced in January 2007.\n\nMisimović signed for 1. FC Nürnberg in July 2007, immediately becoming one of the most important players in the squad. He made his first appearance of the season in the opening championship week against Karlsruher SC. Later on 15 September, he opened his scoring account by netting his side's first goal in an eventual 2–2 home draw against Hannover 96. In January of the following year, he suffered a groin injury, but was recovered back in time for the start of the second part of the season. However, in February, he was injured again, this time in his ankle ligament, which kept him sidelined for the 2007–08 UEFA Cup round of 32 tie against Benfica; without him, Nürnberg lost 3–2 on aggregate and was eliminated from the competition. It was a breakthrough season for Misimović, who scored ten league goals in 28 appearances, earning him a transfer to VfL Wolfsburg.\n\nMisimović completed a transfer to fellow Bundesliga side VfL Wolfsburg in June 2008 for €3.9 million, with the move becoming official on 1 July. He signed a contract until June 2012 and took squad number 10 for the 2008–09 season.\n\nMisimović made his official debut for the team on 16 August in the opening league match against 1. FC Köln, scoring the winning goal in the 78th minute for a 2–1 win at home. In October, he scored a brace in a 4–1 win over Arminia Bielefeld in his 100th Bundesliga appearance. Together with fellow Bosnian international Edin Džeko and Brazilian striker Grafite, they formed \"the magic triangle\". He played 33 matches during the season, all of them as starter, being instrumental for Wolfsburg who its first ever Bundesliga title. Misimović scored seven league goals, and also achieved 20 assists for the club,<ref name=\"2008/09\"></ref> which was the record number of assists in one Bundesliga season, until Kevin De Bruyne surpassed it with one assist more, also while playing for Wolfsburg as well, in the 2014–15 season. In DFB-Pokal, Misimović played four matches as his side was knocked out in quarter-finals by Werder Bremen, while in UEFA Cup, he contributed with eight matches and four goals, including a brace against Braga in group stage, as Wolfsburg was eliminated in knockout stage.\n\nOn 4 August 2009, Misimović outstanding performances were rewarded with a new deal until 2013. He commented the renewal, stating the he \"feels at home\" at Wolfsburg\". Later in September, Misimović made his UEFA Champions League debut by playing full-90 minutes in a 3–1 home win versus Russia's PFC CSKA Moscow in the first match of group stage. He played in all group matches, but Wolfsburg didn't go more than the 3rd place, thus getting relegated to UEFA Europa League. His only goal in the competition came on 3 November against Beşiktaş, netting the opener and then setting the third scored by Džeko in a 3–0 win at Vodafone Park. In December, Misimović was one of the four Wolfsburg players to be nominated for 2009 UEFA Team of the Year, but did not made the final list. In UEFA Europa League, he scored his only goal in a round of 16 tie against Rubin Kazan in an eventual quarter-final exit.\n\nIn the championship, despite Wolfsburg's failure to retain the title, Misimović continued with his excellent performances, recording 15 assists, two short of Mesut Özil. He also bagged 10 goals, equaling his personal best in top flight first set with Nürnberg in 2007–08 season. For the 2010–11 season, the arrival of playmaker Diego made Misimović's future at the club uncertain. Despite appearing in the 2–1 away defeat to Bayern Munich in season's opener, he left the club in the last day of summer transfer window, opting to join Galatasaray S.K. in Turkey.\n\nMisimović concluded his two-year spell at Wolfsburg by making 92 appearances in all competitions and scoring 25 goals.\n\nOn 31 August 2010, Galatasaray announced that Misimović had joined the team on a four-year contract for a sum of €7 million. He played his first match for the team on 13 September against Gaziantepspor. Despite initially becoming an undisputed starter, on 18 November 2010, Misimović was consigned to the reserve squad, as the head coach Gheorghe Hagi stated that he \"didn't need him in the squad\". He left the club in March 2011 after a disappointing spell, having made only nine appearances.\n\nOn 3 March 2011, Misimović signed for Russian club Dynamo Moscow in a deal thought to be worth €4.5 million. The deal was until 2014. Before leaving Galatasaray, Misimović called coach Gheorghe Hagi \"a liar\", but added that he wished his former club all the best. \n\nMisimović made his competitive debut for the team on 12 March 2011 in a league match against Lokomotiv Moscow, while his first goal came in the next match against Rostov, netting a penalty kick in a 3–1 home win.\n\nMisimović concluded his first season in Russia by scoring ten goals in all competitions; he scored eight goals in league, including the winner against CSKA Moscow in April 2012. In 2011–12 Russian Cup, he scored the lone goal of the quarter-final match against Zenit Saint Petersburg, before scoring the winner in the semi-final against Volga Nizhny Novgorod, sending his team to the final. Both goals came in the same manner – from penalty kicks in the 73rd minute. In the final, Misimović played for 82 minutes, but Dynamo was defeated 1–0 by Rubin Kazan.\n\nOn 4 January 2013, Misimović signed a contract for three years with his new club. Between 22 March and 3 April 2013, Misimović played three games on three continents.\n\nIn March 2015, Misimović announced that he would retire from professional football, aged 32. However, he made his return to Guizhou Renhe in June 2015. He announced his retirement again on 8 January 2017.\n\nMisimović played for the FR Yugoslavia under-18 national squad, appearing for them at the 2001 UEFA European Under-18 Football Championship held in Finland. In that team, he played alongside Nemanja Vidić and Danko Lazović.\n\nMisimović later progressed to the FR Yugoslavia under-21 national team, but appeared in only one match as the 85th-minute substitute against France in November 2002. Head coach of the under-21s at the time Vladimir Petrović Pižon soon dropped Misimović, telling him he was overweight and slow.\n\nBy late 2003 and early 2004, 21-year-old Misimović was still not attached to any senior national team. He was approached in the club's gym by then teammate at Bayern Munich, Hasan Salihamidžić, about a possibility of playing for Bosnia and Herzegovina national team. Misimović immediately accepted and debuted for Bosnia under head coach Blaž Slišković on 18 February 2004 in a friendly match against Macedonia.\n\nMisimović was used sparingly by Slišković during the 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign. He played the full 90 minutes in the opening home draws against Spain and Serbia and Montenegro, followed by a substitute appearance in the away loss to Belgium. Misimović then enjoyed a spell as a consistent starter before being substituted 10–20 minutes into the second half, in the 1–1 home draw with Lithuania (scored the opening goal), the away win at San Marino, and finally the 1–1 draw against Spain in Valencia (again scored the opening goal before Spain tied deep into injury-time in the 96th minute). For the deciding four qualifiers (home win against Belgium, the away win at Lithuania, home victory over San Marino, and the away defeat to Serbia and Montenegro), Slišković dropped Misimović to the bench, bringing him into action only in the final 15–20 minutes of each tie.\n\nUEFA Euro 2008 qualifying began in fall 2006 with Slišković still team manager and 24-year-old Misimović an established starter and goalscorer. The opening match dismantling of Malta was followed by the shocking 1–3 defeat to Hungary at home that prompted Slišković's resignation, which he retracted a couple of weeks later and stayed on. Still, more disappointment was to follow with a 2–2 draw at lowly Moldova, as Misimović sparked a comeback that ultimately fell short by scoring a goal at 2–0 down. Four days later, Bosnia were heavily defeated 0–4 by Greece at home, forcing Slišković to resign for the second time in three months – this time for good.\n\nAs the winter break in qualifying commenced, the Bosnian team was in crisis mode with relations inside the organization strained to the maximum. This led to thirteen Bosnian national team players (Misimović, Džemal Berberović, Vladan Grujić, Mladen Bartolović, Mirko Hrgović, Zlatan Bajramović, Saša Papac, Emir Spahić, Ninoslav Milenković, Ivica Grlić, Mirsad Bešlija, Kenan Hasagić and Almir Tolja) releasing what was reported as a signed joint statement in protest. Published in the \"Dnevni Avaz\" daily in late October 2006 as a press release, the statement announces the players' intention to boycott all national team matches until four FA officials – Milan Jelić, Iljo Dominković, Sulejman Čolaković, and Ahmet Pašalić – resigned. \n\nSome two months later, in late December 2006, new head coach Fuad Muzurović was announced. In relation to the boycott statement, Misimović soon did a complete turnaround, denying that he ever signed any such paper and stating that his relations with the FA had always been amicable.\n\nUnder new head coach Muzurović, Misimović truly came into his own, earning the national team captaincy.\n\nAfter Meho Kodro replaced Muzurović as head coach in early January 2008, one of the changes he introduced was stripping Misimović of the captain's armband and handing it to twenty-seven-year-old defender Emir Spahić who had just returned to the national team after boycotting it since fall 2006. \n\nOn 8 April 2008, Misimović (then still only 25 years old) announced his retirement from the national team, citing stating health concerns as he no longer felt able to keep up the physical rigors of playing for both club and country. However, many speculated that health had little to do with Misimović's sudden announcement. These suspicions were seemingly confirmed two days later by Bosnian national team general manager Elvir Bolić who hinted that Misimović might have softened his original stance and revealed that head coach Meho Kodro would travel to Germany to visit the player personally and discuss the \"real reasons\" for his decision. On 12 April 2008, after speaking to Kodro, Misimović changed his mind and the Football Association of Bosnia and Herzegovina (NSBiH) announced that he had decided to continue his international career.\n\nUnder the next head coach Ćiro Blažević during 2010 World Cup qualification process, Misimović asserted himself as the team's undisputed leader on the pitch, displaying great playmaking abilities and leadership qualities. His fine performances began with a hat-trick in a 7–0 victory over Estonia on 10 September 2008. Bosnia finished the group in second place thus qualifying for the playoffs against Portugal in November 2009.\n\nHowever, the qualifying campaign ended on a sour note both for Misimović personally and for the team. Misimović had a poor outing in the first leg away in Lisbon and was widely criticized for his sub-par performance, even by head coach Blažević who publicly blasted the midfield creator for lack of contribution. The coach especially scolded him for two instances of losing possession in the middle of the pitch that resulted in respective Elvir Rahimić and Emir Spahić defensive tackles in order to prevent a Portuguese counterattack, both of which led to yellow cards that meant an automatic one-match suspension for each player for the return leg. Two days after the first leg (and two days before the 18 November 2009 return leg in Zenica), Misimović was ruled out by medical staff due to an apparent knee injury he picked up during the first leg.\n\nControversy arose three days later on 21 November 2009 when he played the full 90 minutes for VfL Wolfsburg in the Bundesliga leading to veiled accusations in the Bosnian media that he faked the injury to get back at Blažević. Head coach Blažević went further, directly accusing Misimović of sabotaging him. Blažević even went as far as alluding to Misimović's Serb ethnicity; suggesting a conspiracy \"on instructions from Republika Srpska Prime Minister Milorad Dodik and the Serbian lobby because Republika Srpska would lose everything if Bosnia qualified for the World Cup\". When informed of Blažević's comments, a stunned Misimović responded that he would not play for Bosnia and Herzegovina as long as Blažević remained as the head coach, and further accused Blažević of scapegoating him in order to deflect attention from the fact that the team was thoroughly outplayed by Portugal in both matches. Even though he stated his intention to leave even before Misimović's latest words, Blažević's response was a claim that he will leave the post because \"Misimović is more important to this team than I am\". The next day, Blažević suddenly announced that he had supposedly resolved his differences with the player after apparently calling to congratulate the birth of his son, but this reconciliation was denied by Misimović two weeks later.\n\nBlažević even announced his intent to travel to Wolfsburg for the Champions League group stage match between VfL Wolfsburg and Manchester United in order to visit Misimović personally, but ended up not doing so. Within days, Blažević resigned as the head coach of Bosnia, revealing that he took an offer from China, and in his parting shot once again he singled out Misimović as the reason why Bosnia did not qualify for the 2010 World Cup.\n\nMisimović played his 51st match for the national team against Luxembourg in September 2010, thereby equaling Elvir Bolić's record for most caps for Bosnia. Misimović surpassed Bolić in a match against France in Sarajevo on 7 September, making him the most capped player in the history of the national team with 52 matches played. Bosnia failed to qualify for Euro 2012 after losing a two-legged playoff against Portugal. Misimović scored a goal from a penalty kick in Lisbon.\n\nMisimović made two assists for Edin Džeko in a victory over Greece in Zenica. Local media compared this situation to the way they played together in VfL Wolfsburg. His penalty kick against Greece was saved by goalkeeper Orestis Karnezis, but teammate Vedad Ibišević managed to convert the rebound for a score of 3–0 (final score was 3–1 in stoppage time). Bosnia went on to qualify for the first finals tournament as an independent nation after topping their group on goal difference, and head-to-head.\n\nMisimović and Bosnia faced Argentina in the first match of the world cup. Almost three minutes into the game, a free kick from Lionel Messi flicked on by Marcos Rojo, was deflected into the net for an own goal by Sead Kolašinac. It was the fastest own goal in the history of the World Cup. In the next half, Messi scored from the edge of the penalty area, tucking the ball into the bottom-right corner. Misimović was substituted 11 minutes later. With five minutes of the match remaining, Ibišević scored after a pass from Senad Lulić, which was Bosnia's first ever World Cup-goal. The match ended 2–1.\n\nIn the next deciding match, against Nigeria, Misimović played the on the pitch for the entire match. A goal from Džeko was controversially deemed offside, as replays seemed to show that his goal should have stood. Instead, Nigeria took the lead in the 29th minute with a goal from Peter Odemwingie. Bosnia pushed on for the equalizer, and a shot from Džeko was deflected onto the post by Nigerian goalkeeper Vincent Enyeama in stoppage time. Nigeria won the match, which effectively eliminated Bosnia from the tournament with a match to spare. Misimović was dropped for the last match against Iran, and Bosnia went on to earn their first ever win in a World Cup tournament.\n\nIn August 2014, following his first and only World Cup, Misimović announced his permanent retirement from the national team.\n\nMisimović is an ethnic Serb, and an Orthodox Christian. His nicknames are \"Miske\", and \"Zwetschge\" (\"plum\"). His favourite team is Red Star Belgrade, a team which he has said he would love to retire in.\n\nMisimović's wife, Stefanija, is from Strumica, Macedonia. The couple have three sons together: Luka (born 2004), Niko (born 2009) and Noel (born 2013).\n\nSource: \n\nSource: \n\nBayern Munich II\n\nBayern Munich\n\nVfL Bochum\n\nVfL Wolfsburg\n\nGuizhou Renhe\n\nAwards\n\nPerformance\n\n"}
{"id": "1996471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996471", "title": "Jean Martinon", "text": "Jean Martinon\n\nJean Francisque-Étienne Martinon (usually known simply as Jean Martinon (); 10 January 19101 March 1976) was a French conductor and composer.\n\nMartinon was born in Lyon, where he began his education, going on to the Conservatoire de Paris to study under Albert Roussel for composition, under Charles Munch and Roger Désormière for conducting, under Vincent d'Indy for harmony, and under Jules Boucherit for violin. He served in the French army during World War II, and was taken prisoner in 1940, composing works such as \"Chant des captifs\" while incarcerated. Among his other compositions are four symphonies, four concertos, additional choral works and chamber music.\n\nAfter the war, Martinon was appointed conductor of the Orchestre de la Société des Concerts du Conservatoire of Paris, and, in 1946, of the Bordeaux Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nOn Martinon's first visit to Dublin in March 1946, his interpretation of Debussy's \"La Mer\" (the Irish premiere of the work) was described as ‘a musical event of real importance’. The success of that first concert led Radio Éireann (the Irish public broadcasting service) to engage him in the following year to assist in the selection of musicians and the general organisation of the newly constituted Radio Éireann Symphony Orchestra. While in Dublin Martinon encouraged the development of Our Lady's Choral Society, he conducted that choir in several important events with the radio orchestra, and he gave master classes in orchestral conducting and in composition in the Summer School of Music.\n\nOther orchestras with which he was associated were the Chicago Symphony Orchestra as music director from 1963 to 1968; the Düsseldorfer Symphoniker, the French National Orchestra, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the Concerts Lamoureux and Het Residentie Orkest in The Hague.\n\nMartinon's repertoire focused on the works of early twentieth century French and Russian composers. The premieres of his violin- and cello-concerti were given by Henryk Szeryng and Pierre Fournier respectively.\n\nHe was a National Patron of Delta Omicron, an international professional music fraternity.\n\nMartinon was diagnosed with bone cancer, not long after he guest conducted the San Francisco Symphony in their first complete performances of Deryck Cooke's completion of Gustav Mahler's tenth symphony. He died in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996480", "title": "Jean Audouze", "text": "Jean Audouze\n\nJean Audouze () is a French astrophysicist. He is a research director at CNRS and teaches at the Paris Institute of Political Science \"Sciences Po\". From 1993 to 1996 he was president of the Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie in La Villette, and in 1998 he was named as director of the Palais de la Découverte, changing places with Michel Demazure who took Audouze's former position at La Villette. Awarded the Kalinga Prize in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "1996489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996489", "title": "Box modeling", "text": "Box modeling\n\nBox modeling is a technique in 3D modeling where a primitive shape (such as a box, cylinder, sphere, etc.) is used to make the basic shape of the final model. This basic shape is then used to sculpt out the final model. The process uses a number of repetitive steps to reach the final product, which can lead to a more efficient and more controlled modelling process.\n\nSubdivision modeling is derived from the idea that as a work is progressed, should the artist want to make their work appear less sharp, or \"blocky\", each face would be divided up into smaller, more detailed faces (usually into sets of four). However, more experienced box modelers manage to create their model without subdividing the faces of the model. Basically, box modeling is broken down into the very basic concept of polygonal management.\n\nQuadrilateral faces, commonly named \"quads\", are the fundamental entity in box modeling. If an artist were to start with a cube, the artist would have six quad faces to work with before extrusion. While most applications for three-dimensional art provide abilities for faces up to any size, results are often more predictable and consistent when working with quads. This is so because if one were to draw an \"X\" connecting the corner vertices of a quad, the surface normal is nearly always the same. We say \"nearly\" because, when a quad is something other than a perfect parallelogram (such as a rhombus or trapezoid), the surface normal would be different. Also, a quad subdivides into two or four triangles cleanly, making it easier to prepare the model for software that can only handle triangles.\n\nBox modeling is a modeling method that is quick and easy to learn. It is also appreciably faster than placing each point individually. However, it is difficult to add high amounts of detail to models created using this technique without practice.\n"}
{"id": "1996494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996494", "title": "Magnus Erlingmark", "text": "Magnus Erlingmark\n\nMagnus Erlingmark (born 8 July 1968 in Jönköping) is a Swedish former\nfootballer who played as a defender. He made 37 appearances for the Sweden national team, including the 1994 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 1992. He won four Swedish Championships.\n\nErlingmark is best remembered for his time with IFK Göteborg, with which he won four Swedish championships. During the 1994–95 UEFA Champions League season, he helped Göteborg win their group ahead of FC Barcelona, Manchester United, and Galatasaray by scoring four goals.\n\nErlingmark represented the Swedish U21 team a total of 10 times, scoring 1 goal.\n\nHe made his senior debut for Sweden in a friendly game against Norway in August of 1990. He was a squad player at UEFA Euro 1992 in which Sweden progressed to the semi-finals, making his only appearance in the tournament as a substitute for Anders Limpar in the group stage win against eventual Euro '92 champions Denmark.\n\nTwo years later he represented Sweden at the 1994 FIFA World Cup, in which Sweden finished third. He made his only appearance in the tournament coming in as a substitute for Joachim Björklund in a group stage win against Russia.\n\nHe is the father of footballer August Erlingmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996499", "title": "Pre", "text": "Pre\n\nPre or PRE may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996500", "title": "Herb Williams", "text": "Herb Williams\n\nHerbert L. Williams (born February 16, 1958) is an American former basketball player in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for eighteen seasons from 1981 to 1999. Williams served as the interim head coach and the assistant coach of the NBA's New York Knicks. He was last an assistant coach for the New York Liberty of the WNBA.\n\nWilliams was a four-year starter for the Ohio State Buckeyes, scoring 2,011 points (then a team record) and pulling down 1,111 rebounds (still second in team history only to Jerry Lucas). Williams is the school leader in career field goals made, with 834 in 114 games. He is second all-time in career blocked shots with 328.\n\nWilliams was named to the All-Big Ten team as a junior, when Ohio State finished the year with a 21-8 record and advanced to the NCAA regionals. He led the Buckeyes in scoring that year with an average of 17.6 points per game.\n\nWilliams was a team co-captain in both his junior and senior years.\n\nWilliams was a first-round draft choice of the Indiana Pacers in 1981, where he played from 1982 to 1989 and had his most productive years.\n\nHe was traded to the Dallas Mavericks midway through the 1988–1989 season on February 22 in exchange for forward Detlef Schrempf.\n\nIn 1992, he was signed by the New York Knicks, where he spent seven years backing up perennial All-Star Patrick Ewing. Williams played one game (31 minutes) for the Toronto Raptors in 1996 before being waived and quickly returned to the Knicks. The team made the 1994 and 1999 NBA Finals, with Williams serving as a team leader.\n\nAfter the 1999 Finals, Williams retired at the age of forty-one after six regular season games and eight playoff games in 1999. Four years later, he returned to the Knicks as an assistant coach. He worked under head coaches Don Chaney and Lenny Wilkens. When Wilkens resigned in 2005, Williams took over as head coach.\n\nOn July 26, 2005, Larry Brown was hired as the head coach of the Knicks, thus ending Williams's head coaching tenure. Williams was the acting head coach of the Knicks for the final two games of the 2005–2006 season, when illness kept Larry Brown away from the bench for the final two games of his Knicks career.\n\nAfter that season, Brown was fired by the Knicks and replaced as head coach by Isiah Thomas. Williams worked as an assistant coach under Thomas and Mike D'Antoni, and continued to be in the coaching staff under Mike Woodson until Phil Jackson fired the entire staff in 2014. He has coached for the Knicks' NBA Summer League team.\n\nOn March 26, 2015, Williams was hired as the assistant coach of the WNBA's New York Liberty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996501", "title": "Ding Feng (general)", "text": "Ding Feng (general)\n\nDing Feng (died 271), courtesy name Chengyuan, was a military general of the state of Eastern Wu during the Three Kingdoms period of China.\n\nDing Feng was from Anfeng County (), Lujiang Commandery (), which is in present-day Gushi County, Henan. He started his career as a soldier under the warlord Sun Quan sometime towards the end of the Han dynasty, and was commissioned as an officer for his courage in battle. He served as a subordinate of various generals under Sun Quan, including Gan Ning, Lu Xun and Pan Zhang. He fought in many wars for his lord and was well known for his valour. He was also wounded in battle several times and had slain many enemy commanders and captured the enemy's flags. He was promoted to Lieutenant-General () for his achievements.\n\nIn 252, Sun Liang succeeded his father Sun Quan as the emperor of the state of Eastern Wu. He appointed Ding Feng as Champion General () and enfeoffed him as a Marquis of a Chief Village ().\n\nIn 252, Sima Shi, the regent of Wu's rival state Wei, sent Zhuge Dan and Hu Zun to lead the Wei armies to attack the Wu garrison at Dongxing (東興; southeast of present-day Chaohu City, Anhui). In response, the Wu regent Zhuge Ke led the Wu forces to resist the enemy, leading to the Battle of Dongxing between Wu and Wei.\n\nThe Wu generals said: \"When the enemy learns that the Grand Tutor (Zhuge Ke) is coming here personally, they will surely retreat when we reach the shore.\" However, only Ding Feng had a different view: \"No. They are making large movements in their territory. They are prepared, as they have mobilised large numbers of troops from Xuchang and Luoyang, so why would they go back empty-handed? Don't think that the enemy won't come. We should ready ourselves for battle.\" When Zhuge Ke reached Dongxing, he placed Ding Feng, Liu Zan (), Lü Ju and Tang Zi in charge of the vanguard and they moved west along mountainous terrain. Ding Feng warned: \"We are moving too slow. If the enemy seizes favourable ground, it will be harder to deal with them.\" He then led 3,000 soldiers with him, travelling on a different route from the main bulk of Wu forces.\n\nStrong north winds were blowing at that time. Ding Feng and his 3,000 men reached the frontline within two days and seized control of Xu Embankment (). It was in winter and there was snowfall. The Wei officers were off guard and having a drinking session, so, despite the feeble size of his army, Ding Feng rallied his men and said: \"Today is the day we claim titles and rewards!\" He then ordered his troops to remove their armour and helmets, discard their \"ji\"s and spears, and arm themselves with only shields and short weapons such as swords. The Wei soldiers laughed when they saw this event, and instead refused to ready themselves for combat. Ding Feng and his men fought bravely and destroyed the enemy camp at the front. Just then, another Wu force led by Lü Ju and a few others arrived, therefore joining Ding Feng in attacking the enemy camp. The Wei forces suffered a crushing a defeat.\n\nDing Feng was promoted to General Who Destroys Bandits () and had his marquis rank increased by one grade for his efforts in the battle.\n\nIn 255, the Cao Wei generals Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin started a rebellion in the Wei-controlled Shouchun (壽春; present-day Shou County, Anhui). However, the revolt failed and Wen Qin fled towards Wu to seek refuge. Ding Feng was appointed as General of Tiger's Might () and he followed an army led by the Wu regent Sun Jun to receive Wen Qin. They encountered Wei forces pursuing Wen Qin at Gaoting () and engaged the enemy in battle. Ding Feng, armed with a long spear and on horseback, led a charge into the enemy formation and they slew hundreds of Wei soldiers and seized much of the enemy's weapons and equipment. He was enfeoffed as the Marquis of Anfeng () for his achievements.\n\nIn 257, another rebellion led by the Wei general Zhuge Dan broke out in Shouchun again. Zhuge Dan requested aid from Wu and the Wu regent Sun Chen agreed. Sima Zhao personally led the Wei armies to suppress the revolt and they attempted to surround Shouchun. Sun Chen ordered Zhu Yi and Tang Zi to help Zhuge Dan, and later sent Li Fei () and Ding Feng to lift the siege on Shouchun. Ding Feng stationed at Lijiang () and he fought bravely in battle even though the rebellion was eventually crushed by Wei forces and the Wu army sustained heavy losses. Despite the failure of the campaign, Ding Feng was still held in high regard in Wu, as he was subsequently appointed as General of the Left ().\n\nIn 258, Sun Chen deposed the second Wu emperor Sun Liang and replaced the latter with Sun Xiu. Sun Xiu was unhappy that Sun Chen monopolised state power so he plotted with the minister Zhang Bu to eliminate Sun Chen. Zhang Bu told the emperor, \"Ding Feng may not be proficient in administrating civil affairs, but he is an outstanding strategist and is capable of making important decisions.\" Sun Xiu then summoned Ding Feng and told him: \"Sun Chen usurps state power and is plotting treason. I want you to help me eliminate him.\" Ding Feng replied: \"The Imperial Chancellor (Sun Chen) and his brothers have many supporters. Not everyone in the imperial court is on our side. We cannot confront them directly. I suggest that Your Majesty order your soldiers to kill him during the Laba Festival.\" Sun Xiu followed Ding Feng's plan and pretended to invite Sun Chen to the palace to celebrate the Laba Festival. When Sun Chen stepped inside, Ding Feng and Zhang Bu signalled to the imperial guards to kill him. For his contributions, Ding Feng was promoted to the position of General-in-Chief () and received the additional appointments of Left and Right Protector-Generals ().\n\nIn 259, Ding Feng was appointed as the nominal Governor of Xu Province. In 263, when the state of Wei launched a campaign to conquer Wu's ally Shu, Ding Feng led the Wu forces to attack Shouchun (壽春; present-day Shou County, Anhui) in an attempt to divert Wei attention away from Shu. However, it was too late as the Shu emperor Liu Shan had already surrendered to Wei, marking the end of Shu. When Ding Feng received news of the fall of Shu, he withdrew the Wu armies from Shouchun.\n\nWhen Sun Xiu died in 264, Ding Feng and Puyang Xing heeded Wan Yu's advice and decided to install Sun Hao on the throne. After his accession, Sun Hao appointed Ding Feng as Right Grand Marshal () and Left Military Adviser ().\n\nIn 268, Sun Hao ordered Ding Feng and Zhuge Jing () to lead an army to attack Hefei, which was under the control of the Jin dynasty (which replaced the state of Wei in 265). Ding Feng exchanged letters with the Jin general Shi Bao (), in which they discussed some trivial things. Shi Bao later ordered the Jin army to retreat.\n\nIn 269, Ding Feng was ordered to garrison at Xu Embankment () and later attack the Jin territory of Guyang (). When the residents in Guyang learnt of the Wu army's approach, they immediately evacuated the area and Ding Feng did not obtain anything in the campaign. Sun Hao was furious when he heard about that, and he executed Ding Feng's army guide.\n\nDing Feng died in 271. His cause of death was not recorded in history. In his later years, Ding Feng gradually became arrogant as he achieved more glory for his contributions on the battlefield. He was slandered and defamed by others after his death. However, Sun Hao still recognised Ding Feng for his meritorious service, so he did not massacre Ding Feng's family and instead exiled them to Linchuan (臨川; present-day Linchuan District, Fuzhou, Jiangxi).\n\nDing Feng's younger brother, Ding Fēng (), also served as a general in Eastern Wu and the highest position he attained was General of the Rear (). The younger Ding Feng died before his elder brother.\n\nDing Feng is first introduced as a playable character in the seventh instalment of Koei's \"Dynasty Warriors\" video game series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996504", "title": "John Campbell Allen", "text": "John Campbell Allen\n\nSir John Campbell Allen (October 1, 1817 – September 27, 1898) was from 1865–1896 a justice of the colonial and then provincial Supreme Court of New Brunswick, serving as Chief Justice of New Brunswick from 1875 to 1896. \n\nHe was born in Kingsclear Parish, New Brunswick, a grandson of Isaac Allen, a New Brunswick Supreme Court judge. He studied law in the office of John Simcoe Saunders. \n\nHe was a member of the New Brunswick House of Assembly from 1856 to 1865, Solicitor General in 1856 to 1857, Speaker of the House from 1863 to 1865, and Attorney General in 1865.\n\nIn 1873, he gave the majority decision of the New Brunswick Supreme Court in Dow v. Black, a significant constitutional law case dealing with the federal-provincial division of powers. He held that a provincial statute dealing with municipal taxation was unconstitutional. However, his decision was overturned on appeal by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, at that time the court of last resort for the British Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996519", "title": "Matthew Settle", "text": "Matthew Settle\n\nJeffrey Matthew Settle (born September 17, 1969) is an American actor. He is known for playing Captain Ronald Speirs on the HBO miniseries \"Band of Brothers\" and Rufus Humphrey on the CW teen drama series \"Gossip Girl\".\n\nSettle was born in Hickory, North Carolina, the son of Joan and Robert Settle, a Baptist minister. He is the youngest of six children, having two sisters and three brothers.\n\nSettle made his Broadway debut in a strictly limited engagement in \"\", appearing as Billy Flynn from April 19 through June 13, 2010. He would make his feature film debut in \"I Still Know What You Did Last Summer\" co-starring alongside Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Mekhi Phifer, and Brandy Norwood. He also had a guest appearance in the seventh season of \"\" as a reporter in the episode \"Storm\". From 2007 to 2012, Settle portrayed Rufus Humphrey, the father of Dan and Jenny, on the CW teen drama series \"Gossip Girl\". Other past roles include his portrayal of Capt. Ronald Speirs in the HBO miniseries \"Band of Brothers\", and also his role as Jacob Wheeler in the TNT miniseries \"Into the West\". He also played the part of John in the film \"Beneath\". He played John in the 2006 movie, \"The Celestine Prophecy\".\n\nIn 2007, Settle revealed that in 2006, at age 37, he had eloped to marry actress and model Naama Nativ, with whom he has a daughter, born in 2009. The couple were divorced 10 May 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996521", "title": "USA Today (magazine)", "text": "USA Today (magazine)\n\nUSA Today magazine is a monthly periodical published since 1978 by the Society for the Advancement of Education. It is unrelated to the \"USA Today\" newspaper. The magazine is based in West Babylon, New York. Among the topics covered by the magazine are politics, ecology, education, business, media, literature, science, and religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996523", "title": "Zhuge Dan", "text": "Zhuge Dan\n\nZhuge Dan (died March or April 258), courtesy name Gongxiu, was a Chinese military general and politician of the state of Cao Wei during the Three Kingdoms period of China. When he held key military appointments throughout his middle to late career, he was involved in all of the three rebellions which broke out in Shouchun (around present-day Shou County, Anhui) between 251 and 258. During the second rebellion, he actively assisted the Wei regent Sima Shi in suppressing the revolt. After the rebellion, the Wei government put him in charge of Shouchun. As the Sima clan became more powerful and established themselves as the \"de facto\" rulers of Wei, Zhuge Dan feared that he would end up slain like Wang Ling and Guanqiu Jian – the leaders of the first two rebellions – so he started the third rebellion against Sima Zhao, who succeeded Sima Shi as regent of Wei in 255. Although he received some support from Wei's rival state Eastern Wu, his rebellion was eventually suppressed by Wei imperial forces and he met his end at the hands of Hu Fen, a military officer under Sima Zhao.\n\nZhuge Dan was from Yangdu County (), Langya Commandery (), which is in present-day Yinan County, Shandong. He was a descendant of Zhuge Feng () and a cousin of Zhuge Jin and Zhuge Liang. He started his career as a Gentleman of Writing (). There was once when he and Du Ji, a Supervisor (), test-rode a boat in the river. The boat capsized after being hit by a wave and both men were thrown overboard. When the \"huben\" guards came to save him, Zhuge Dan told them to save Du Ji first. He lost consciousness later, drifted to the shore, and eventually recovered.\n\nLater, Zhuge Dan became the Prefect () of Xingyang County () and then served as a Gentleman () in the Ministry of Personnel (). During this time, when his colleagues recommended people to him, he would publicly reveal what they told him in private before giving jobs to the people they recommended. When he evaluated officials' performance, he would take into account what others said regardless of whether it was positive or negative. As a result, his colleagues were especially careful when they recommended people to him.\n\nAfter gaining some experience in the Ministry of Personnel, Zhuge Dan was then reassigned to be a Palace Assistant Imperial Secretary and Master of Writing (). He was close friends with Xiahou Xuan and Deng Yang. They enjoyed much praise from other officials and the citizens in the imperial capital. Later, someone told the Wei emperor Cao Rui that Zhuge Dan and his friends, along with other \"celebrities\", were engaging in superficial and fame-seeking behaviour. Cao Rui felt disgusted and wanted to discourage such behaviour among his subjects, so he removed Zhuge Dan from office.\n\nAfter Cao Rui's death in 239, Cao Fang became the new Wei emperor. He restored Zhuge Dan as Palace Assistant Imperial Secretary and Master of Writing, and subsequently promoted him to Inspector () of Yang Province and General of Illustrious Martial Might ().\n\nIn 251, Wei imperial forces led by the regent Sima Yi suppressed a rebellion by the Wei general Wang Ling. After that, the Wei imperial court appointed Zhuge Dan as General Who Guards the East (), granted him imperial authority, put him in charge of military affairs in Yang Province, and enfeoffed him as the Marquis of Shanyang Village (). After Sima Yi died later that year, his son Sima Shi succeeded him as regent and continued to control the Wei government.\n\nAround early or mid 252, Zhuge Dan pointed out to Sima Shi that Eastern Wu forces had been making incursions on Wei territory and had constructed a large dam, complete with exterior defences, at Dongxing (東興; southeast of present-day Chaohu, Anhui). He suggested to Sima Shi to send Wang Chang and Guanqiu Jian to lead troops to attack and destroy the dam. Later that year, Sima Shi devised a strategy for launching a three-pronged attack on Eastern Wu. He sent Wang Chang to attack Nan Commandery (南郡; present-day Jingzhou, Hubei), Guanqiu Jian to attack Wuchang (武昌; present-day Ezhou, Hubei), and Hu Zun and Zhuge Dan to lead 70,000 troops to attack the Dongxing dam. In response, the Wu general Zhuge Ke led 40,000 troops to Dongxing to counter the invaders. The Battle of Dongxing concluded with a tactical victory for the Wu forces. Zhuge Dan was reassigned to the position of General Who Guards the South () after he returned from the battle.\n\nIn early 255, the Wei generals Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin started a rebellion in Shouchun (壽春; present-day Shou County, Anhui) because they were unhappy with the Sima family's control over the Wei government. Both of them were close to the former Wei regent Cao Shuang and his followers, who were ousted from power in a coup in 249 by Sima Yi. Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin sent a messenger to Zhuge Dan, urging him to rally troops in Yu Province to support them. However, Zhuge Dan executed the messenger and publicly announced that Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin had rebelled.\n\nSima Shi personally led Wei imperial forces to deal with the rebels. He ordered Zhuge Dan to lead troops from Yu Province and advance to Shouchun via Anfeng Ford (). After Sima Shi quelled the revolt, Zhuge Dan and his forces were the first to enter Shouchun. By then, the civilian population of Shouchun, numbering over 100,000, had fled into the countryside or escaped to Eastern Wu for fear of being killed.\n\nThe Wei imperial court appointed Zhuge Dan as Senior General Who Guards the East (), with honours equivalent to those of the Three Ducal Ministers, and ordered him to oversee military affairs in Yang Province. Earlier on, when news of Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin's rebellion reached Eastern Wu, the Wu regent Sun Jun, along with Lü Ju, Liu Zan and others, had led Wu forces to Shouchun to support the rebels. However, by the time they showed up, Wei forces had recaptured Shouchun so the Wu forces retreated. Zhuge Dan sent his subordinate Jiang Ban () to lead troops to attack the retreating Wu forces. Jiang Ban killed Liu Zan in the ensuing battle and obtained his official seal. For his achievements, Zhuge Dan was promoted from a village marquis to a county marquis – \"Marquis of Gaoping (County)\" () – and awarded 3,500 taxable households to form his marquisate. The Wei government also changed his appointment to \"Senior General Who Attacks the East\" ().\n\nAs Zhuge Dan was close friends with Xiahou Xuan and Deng Yang () – both were Cao Shuang's associates – and had witnessed the downfall of Wang Ling and Guanqiu Jian, he felt very uneasy and was worried that he would become a victim of the Sima family's purges. Thus, when he was stationed in Shouchun (壽春; present-day Shou County, Anhui), he attempted to increase his popularity among the masses in the Huai River area by being very generous. He also used his personal wealth to bribe his subordinates and hire thousands of mercenaries as bodyguards. He even pardoned criminals who committed capital offences.\n\nAround the winter of 256, Zhuge Dan found an excuse to entrench himself further in Shouchun and build up his defences. He wrote to the Wei imperial court, claiming that he heard that Eastern Wu forces were planning to attack the Huai River region. He asked for 100,000 troops and permission to build more defensive structures in the area. At the time, as Sima Shi had died in 255, his younger brother Sima Zhao had taken over the reins of power as the regent of Wei. Jia Chong suggested to Sima Zhao to keep a close watch on the generals who were guarding strategic locations throughout the Wei Empire and assess whether they were loyal to him. Sima Zhao heeded his words and sent him to Shouchun to meet Zhuge Dan. Jia Chong told Zhuge Dan, \"Many wise men in Luoyang hope to see the Emperor abdicate in favour of a better ruler. You already know this. What do you think?\" Zhuge Dan replied sternly, \"Aren't you Inspector Jia's son? The State has treated your family generously for generations. How can you betray the State and let it fall into the hands of others? I can't stand this. If there is trouble in Luoyang, I'll die for the State.\" Jia Chong remained silent. After returning to Luoyang, Jia Chong told Sima Zhao, \"Zhuge Dan has high prestige and popularity in Yang Province. If you summon him here and he doesn't obey, it's a small problem. But if you don't summon him, it'll become a big problem.\" Around the early summer of 257, Sima Zhao issued an order in the imperial court's name, ordering Zhuge Dan to return to Luoyang to serve as Minister of Works () in the central government. While the order ostensibly promoted Zhuge Dan to a prestigious ministerial office (one of the Three Ducal Ministers, in fact), it was actually a move to remove him from power in Shouchun and put him under Sima Zhao's control in Luoyang.\n\nWhen Zhuge Dan received the order, he knew that Sima Zhao was suspicious of him and became fearful. According to the \"Shiyu\", he suspected that Yue Lin (), the Inspector () of Yang Province, had instigated Sima Zhao to remove him from power in Shouchun and summon him to Luoyang. He then led a few hundred soldiers to Yue Lin's office to kill him. When he arrived, he saw that the gates were closed so he shouted at the guards, \"Weren't you my subordinates last time?\" He then forced his way in and killed Yue Lin. Another account from the \"Wei Mo Zhuan\" () mentioned that Zhuge Dan hosted a party after receiving the order and lied that he wanted to take a day off from work and go outside Shouchun. He brought along 700 soldiers with him. When Yue Lin heard about it, he ordered the city gates to be shut. Zhuge Dan then ordered his men to force the gates open, set fire to the Inspector's office, and killed Yue Lin. He then wrote a memorial to the imperial court, accusing Yue Lin of secretly collaborating with Eastern Wu and claiming that he executed Yue Lin after discovering his treachery. The historian Pei Songzhi believed the \"Wei Mo Zhuan\" account to be untrue, given how it described Zhuge Dan's behaviour. In any case, Zhuge Dan killed Yue Lin and started a rebellion in Shouchun against the Wei government.\n\nWhen Zhuge Dan rose in revolt, he had about 100,000 troops under his command in the Huai River region. Most of these troops were stationed as part of the Wei government's \"tuntian\" policy. He also managed to recruit another 40,000 to 50,000 troops in Yang Province. He had stockpiled a year's worth of supplies and was completely capable of being self-sufficient in that region. He then sent Wu Gang (), a Chief Clerk (), to bring his son Zhuge Jing () to seek help from Eastern Wu. In return, Zhuge Jing would remain in Wu as a hostage.\n\nThe Wu regent Sun Chen was overjoyed. He ordered Quan Yi (), Quan Duan (), Tang Zi, Wang Zuo () and other officers to lead 30,000 Wu troops to support Zhuge Dan's rebellion. He also secretly asked Wen Qin, who had defected to Wu after Guanqiu Jian's defeat, to help Zhuge Dan. The Wu government granted Zhuge Dan imperial authority and the following appointments: Left Protector-General (), Grand Minister Over the Masses (), General of Agile Cavalry (), and Governor of Qing Province (). They also enfeoffed him as the Marquis of Shouchun ().\n\nAmong the various Wei imperial forces sent to suppress Zhuge Dan's rebellion, the army led by Wang Ji arrived at Shouchun first and started to surround the city. Before the encirclement was complete, the Wu forces led by Tang Zi and Wen Qin managed to cut across mountainous terrain in the northeast of Shouchun and enter the city to meet up with Zhuge Dan.\n\nAround July 258, Sima Zhao reached Xiang County (項縣; present-day Shenqiu County, Henan), where he took overall command of the 260,000 troops mobilised from throughout the Wei Empire to suppress the rebellion, and advanced towards Shouchun. He remained at Qiutou (), while sending Wang Ji and Chen Qian () to surround Shouchun and reinforce their encirclement with defensive structures such as earth walls and moats. At the same time, he also ordered Shi Bao () and Zhou Tai to lead some troops to patrol the perimeter and guard against any forces coming to help Zhuge Dan. When Wen Qin and others attempted to break out of the siege, they were driven back by the Wei forces.\n\nThe Wu general Zhu Yi led another force to Shouchun to assist Zhuge Dan. Zhou Tai attacked Zhu Yi at Lijiang () and defeated him. The Wu regent Sun Chen was furious with Zhu Yi's failure and had him executed.\n\nAfter some time, Shouchun gradually ran low on supplies and became increasingly isolated from the outside world. Two of Zhuge Dan's close aides, Jiang Ban () and Jiao Yi (), told their general: \"Zhu Yi came with a large army but failed to achieve anything. Sun Chen executed Zhu Yi and returned to Jiangdong. He is actually putting on a front when he sent troops to help us. His decision to turn back already shows that he is adopting a wait-and-see attitude. Now, since our troops are still high on morale and eager to fight, we should focus all efforts on breaking one side of the siege. Even if we cannot drive back the enemy, we can at least allow some of our forces to escape and survive.\"\n\nWen Qin disagreed and told Zhuge Dan, \"Jiangdong forces are known for having scored victories; their enemies in the north can't stop them. Sir, you have led over 100,000 men to join Jiangdong. Quan Yi, myself and the others from Jiangdong are trapped here too with you. Our families are still in Jiangdong. Even if Sun Chen doesn't want to save us, do you think our Emperor and his relatives will abandon us? There were times in the past when our enemy unexpectedly suffered a plague. Now that we have been stuck here for almost a year, if we stir up any feelings of divisiveness, a mutiny might happen. We should continue to hold out and maintain our hopes that help will arrive soon.\"\n\nWen Qin became angry when Jiang Ban and Jiao Yi repeatedly urged Zhuge Dan to follow their plan. Zhuge Dan also became increasingly frustrated with Jiang Ban and Jiao Yi and wanted to execute them. The two of them feared for their lives and realised that Zhuge Dan was destined to fail, so in December 257 or January 258, they escaped from Shouchun and surrendered to Sima Zhao.\n\nSima Zhao later used a ploy to persuade Quan Yi () and Quan Duan () to surrender. The Quans fell for the ruse and led a few thousand men with them out of Shouchun to defect to Sima Zhao's side. Their defection caused much fear and panic among Zhuge Dan's forces.\n\nIn February or March 258, Wen Qin told Zhuge Dan, \"Jiang Ban and Jiao Yi left because we didn't follow their idea to attack the enemy. Quan Duan and Quan Yi have defected too. The enemy must have lowered their guard. Now is the time to attack them.\" Zhuge Dan agreed, so he, Wen Qin and Tang Zi led their troops out to attack and attempt to break out of the siege.\n\nTheir efforts proved futile because the Wei forces, due to having constructed walls and other defensive structures earlier, were in a more advantageous position over them. The Wei soldiers rained boulders and flaming arrows on Zhuge Dan's forces; thousands were wounded or killed, and the ground was soaked with blood. Unable to break the siege, Zhuge Dan and his forces retreated back to Shouchun, which had run out of food supplies by then. Thousands of Zhuge Dan's men came out of the city and surrendered to Sima Zhao.\n\nEarlier on, Wen Qin wanted Zhuge Dan to reduce food rations and send all his men to break the siege, while he and the troops from Eastern Wu would remain behind to guard Shouchun. Zhuge Dan strongly disapproved and quarrelled with Wen Qin over this. Although they initially cooperated, they became more suspicious and distrustful of each other as the situation in Shouchun became more desperate. Zhuge Dan eventually had Wen Qin executed.\n\nUpon learning of their father's death at Zhuge Dan's hands, Wen Qin's sons Wen Yang and Wen Hu () attempted to flee from Shouchun. After failing to persuade their men to join them, they escaped on their own and surrendered to Sima Zhao. When an officer advised Sima Zhao to execute them, Sima Zhao said, \"Wen Qin's crimes don't warrant death. Although his sons should be executed, they have surrendered to us. Besides, as the city has yet to be recaptured, executing them will only harden the rebels' resolve.\" He pardoned Wen Yang and Wen Hu, and ordered a few hundred riders to escort them on a tour around Shouchun and announce to the rebels in the city: \"See? Wen Qin's sons have been spared. What's there to be afraid of?\" Sima Zhao later appointed Wen Yang and Wen Hu as military officers and enfeoffed them as secondary marquises.\n\nBy then, most of Zhuge Dan's men had lost their will to fight after being trapped in the city for months without food. Zhuge Dan, Tang Zi and the remaining officers in Shouchun were also at their wits' end. Sima Zhao came to Shouchun and personally directed his forces to press on the siege and call for battle. The defenders did not respond. Zhuge Dan then attempted to break out of the siege with a few of his subordinates. Hu Fen (), a military officer under Sima Zhao, led his men to attack Zhuge Dan and killed him. Zhuge Dan's decapitated head was put on display and his family members were executed. Zhuge Dan had recruited a few hundred mercenaries as bodyguards. After his death, they were rounded up and each was offered the chance to surrender and be spared, but none accepted and all were executed. The loyalty of these bodyguards towards Zhuge Dan was comparable to the loyalty of the 500 retainers towards Tian Heng (). Yu Quan (), a Wu officer, said, \"I have received orders from my lord to lead troops to help others. I failed in my mission and can't do anything to defeat the enemy. I won't stand for this.\" He then removed his body armour and charged towards the enemy and was killed. Tang Zi, Wang Zuo () and the other Wu officers surrendered to Sima Zhao. The weapons and equipment captured from the Wu forces formed huge piles like hills.\n\nZhuge Dan had at least one son and two daughters.\n\nOne of Zhuge Dan's daughters married Wang Guang (), Wang Ling's son. On her wedding night, Wang Ling told her, \"You resemble Gongxiu (Zhuge Dan) so much in your facial expressions!\" She replied, \"You can't be like Yanyun (Wang Ling), so you compare your wife to a hero!\" She was most likely executed along with the rest of the Wang family after Wang Ling's downfall.\n\nZhuge Dan's other daughter married Sima Zhou, Sima Yi's sixth son, who became a prince during the Jin dynasty. She was then known as \"Grand Consort Zhuge\" (). She bore Sima Zhou four sons: Sima Jin (), Sima Yao (), Sima Cui () and Sima Dan ().\n\nZhuge Dan's son, Zhuge Jing (), was sent as a hostage to Eastern Wu in 257 in return for support from Wu forces for his father's rebellion. He remained in Wu and served as Minister of War (). In 280, after the Jin dynasty conquered Wu, Zhuge Jing went into hiding in the home of his sister (the one who married Sima Zhou). The Jin emperor Sima Yan (Emperor Wu) considered Zhuge Jing his relative (Sima Zhou was an uncle of Emperor Wu) and knew that Zhuge Jing was hiding in his sister's home, so he paid them a visit. When Zhuge Jing heard that the emperor had come to visit him, he hid in the latrine and refused to come out. The emperor insisted on seeing him and said, \"Today, we finally meet each other again.\" Zhuge Jing replied tearfully, \"I regret not being able to cover my body in paint and remove the skin from my face before I meet Your Majesty again!\" Emperor Wu appointed him as a Palace Attendant (), but he refused to accept, returned to his hometown and lived the rest of his life as a commoner. Zhuge Jing had two sons: Zhuge Yi () and Zhuge Hui (). Zhuge Yi served as Minister of Ceremonies () during the Jin dynasty and was favoured by Emperor Yuan. Zhuge Hui served as Prefect of the Masters of Writing ().\n\nZhuge Dan is first introduced as a playable character in the seventh instalment of Koei's \"Dynasty Warriors\" video game series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996525", "title": "Industrial production in Shōwa Japan", "text": "Industrial production in Shōwa Japan\n\nThis article covers the development of the industry in the Empire of Japan, during the rise of statism in the first part of the Shōwa era.\n\nIn its first 70 years, following the Meiji Restoration, factory production in Japan was all but non-existent, but by the first years of the Shōwa era, Japan was at a level comparable to many industrialized European countries. Industry in Japan grew both qualitatively and quantitatively. In 1920, the textile industry was the most important and Japan was known mainly as a manufacturer of wool and silk products, fabrics, fans, toys and similar goods. By 1939, however, industrial production in the areas of metallurgy and chemical products had grown by more than 100%.\n\nIndustrial output grew significantly during the period 1929-1942, while the total value of heavy industry in Japan, valued at approximately US$700 million in 1931, had risen to US$3.7 billion by 1940.\n\nTaking the effects of inflation into consideration, this growth indicates a rise in profits of 400% in heavy industry between 1937 and 1940. At the same time as the extraordinary growth of heavy industry, and a 26% decline in consumption articles during the period 1937-1940, the textile industry maintained its principal place as the primary occupation for Japanese workers. At its relative height during this period, textile production employed approximately one million workers, or roughly 1/3 of the industrial workforce.\n\nThe rapid growth of pre-war and wartime Japanese industry is reminiscent of the Industrial Revolution in 18th century England. The growth of profits during both periods was astonishing, in terms of both percentages and totals.\n\nThese developments would never have arisen, however, without an abundant\nsource of low priced and docile manpower and convenient access to raw materials, the latter—though vital—were (and still are) exceedingly rare in Japan. Access to both were important factors in Japan's rapid industrial development.\n\nThe average Japanese industrial worker worked long hours for a low salary. Before 1940, more than 90% of workers received less than US$7 per week. In later years, average pay rose by 50%, but the cost of living—the articles and services for which one needs salary—rose as well. In peacetime, the Japanese work week averaged 56 hours, compared with 35 hours in the United States and 39 hours in France. Furthermore, the war effort exposed a marked scarcity of specialized workers.\n\nOne final important element of Japanese industry was small-scale, subsistence industry. Prior to 1941, most of the middle class was employed in handcrafts in cottage industries and small workshops, which normally employed fewer than five workers.\n\nWomen often worked in this type of industry, and large-scale industry often obtained materials from the small-scale outfits, particularly rayon and cotton.\n\nIn 1921 there were 87,398 factories with more than five workers; 71,321 used machines, the rest were hand manufacturing. In 1926, there were 51,906 factories with 1,875,000 employees growing in productivity with reduced employees due to mechanisation. The zone extended from the interior sea (Japanese Mediterranean sea) to the Kanto Plain, being the industrial heart of Japan. From Nagasaki and Hiroshima to Tokyo was 600 miles with a series of industrial cities: the region of Osaka-Kobe-Kioto, the axis Tokyo-Yokohama, Nagoya and Nagasaki, Hiroshima, Shimonoseki and Moji in North Kyūshū. The Osaka-Kobe-Kioto region makes traditional products, iron and steel, and others. The axis Tokyo-Yokohama manufactured machinery, electrical devices, printing, iron and steel works, and others various factories. Nagoya center poses hilatures and fiber factories and porcelain; the North Kyūshū centers produced high ovens, iron and steel works, iron laminations, shipyards, cement and crystal factories, coal coke processors etc. Additional to these centers were others in Kamaishi (North Honshū) for making iron bars, and Muroran (Hokkaido) similarly. The iron & steel industry was unique in that it produced twice more converter steel than bars of high ovens because of more use of scrap iron and old iron imported from overseas.\n\nOther important centers were Heijo (Chosen) for Iron and Steel works, in Karafuto for Cellulose (paper raw material) manufacturing; Kwantung, for Iron & Steel Works (Anshan factory), in Formosa (Camphor and sugar cane processing) and South Mandate for Sugar cane processing. The fishing industry (the most extensive in coastal areas in all the Japanese empire), employed 1,500,000 persons (including 500,000 women and children). The \"cultivated pearl\" industry was centred in Toba (Shima area, in Ago Bay) where the Mikimoto Zaibatsu Clan held a monopoly. For military industry, see the additional information.\n\nIn 1927 and 1937, industrial production remained at ¥16,412,000,000, which represented three times the value of farming. The textile industry fell from 41.4% in 1926 to 23.8% in 1936; metallurgical industries 6.4% in 1926 to 20.5% in 1936, and the chemical industry 18.6% in 1937 and machinery and industrial equipment growing to 14.5% in the same year. Japan's treaties with Germany provided licenses for installing certain heavy industry technologies. The result of these agreements, were the following factories:\n\n\nFor more detailed information about Japanese-German Industrial relations pre–World War II and Japanese, Manchu and Chinese special factories see the link: http://www.fischer-tropsch.org/primary_documents/gvt_reports/CIOSC/cios_30_31_23.htm\n"}
{"id": "1996536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996536", "title": "Grain boundary", "text": "Grain boundary\n\nA grain boundary is the interface between two grains, or crystallites, in a polycrystalline material. Grain boundaries are 2D defects in the crystal structure, and tend to decrease the electrical and thermal conductivity of the material. Most grain boundaries are preferred sites for the onset of corrosion and for the precipitation of new phases from the solid. They are also important to many of the mechanisms of creep. On the other hand, grain boundaries disrupt the motion of dislocations through a material, so reducing crystallite size is a common way to improve mechanical strength, as described by the Hall–Petch relationship. The study of grain boundaries and their effects on the mechanical, electrical and other properties of materials forms an important topic in materials science.\n\nIt is convenient to categorize grain boundaries according to the extent of misorientation between the two grains. \"Low-angle grain boundaries\" (\"LAGB\") or \"subgrain boundaries\" are those with a misorientation less than about 15 degrees. Generally speaking they are composed of an array of dislocations and their properties and structure are a function of the misorientation. In contrast the properties of \"high-angle grain boundaries\", whose misorientation is greater than about 15 degrees (the transition angle varies from 10–15 degrees depending on the material), are normally found to be independent of the misorientation. However, there are 'special boundaries' at particular orientations whose interfacial energies are markedly lower than those of general high-angle grain boundaries.\nThe simplest boundary is that of a tilt boundary where the rotation axis is parallel to the boundary plane. This boundary can be conceived as forming from a single, contiguous crystallite or grain which is gradually bent by some external force. The energy associated with the elastic bending of the lattice can be reduced by inserting a dislocation, which is essentially a half-plane of atoms that act like a wedge, that creates a permanent misorientation between the two sides. As the grain is bent further, more and more dislocations must be introduced to accommodate the deformation resulting in a growing wall of dislocations – a low-angle boundary. The grain can now be considered to have split into two sub-grains of related crystallography but notably different orientations.\n\nAn alternative is a twist boundary where the misorientation occurs around an axis that is perpendicular to the boundary plane. This type of boundary incorporates two sets of screw dislocations. If the Burgers vectors of the dislocations are orthogonal, then the dislocations do not strongly interact and form a square network. In other cases, the dislocations may interact to form a more complex hexagonal structure.\n\nThese concepts of tilt and twist boundaries represent somewhat idealized cases. The majority of boundaries are of a mixed type, containing dislocations of different types and Burgers vectors, in order to create the best fit between the neighboring grains.\n\nIf the dislocations in the boundary remain isolated and distinct, the boundary can be considered to be low-angle. If deformation continues, the density of dislocations will increase and so reduce the spacing between neighboring dislocations. Eventually, the cores of the dislocations will begin to overlap and the ordered nature of the boundary will begin to break down. At this point the boundary can be considered to be high-angle and the original grain to have separated into two entirely separate grains.\n\nIn comparison to low-angle grain boundaries, high-angle boundaries are considerably more disordered, with large areas of poor fit and a comparatively open structure. Indeed, they were originally thought to be some form of amorphous or even liquid layer between the grains. However, this model could not explain the observed strength of grain boundaries and, after the invention of electron microscopy, direct evidence of the grain structure meant the hypothesis had to be discarded. It is now accepted that a boundary consists of structural units which depend on both the misorientation of the two grains and the plane of the interface. The types of structural unit that exist can be related to the concept of the \"coincidence site lattice\", in which repeated units are formed from points where the two misoriented lattices happen to coincide.\n\nIn coincident site lattice (CSL) theory, the degree of fit (Σ) between the structures of the two grains is described by the reciprocal of the ratio of coincidence sites to the total number of sites.\nIn this framework, it is possible to draw the lattice for the 2 grains and count the number of atoms that are shared (coincidence sites), and the total number of atoms on the boundary (total number of site). For example, when Σ=3 there will be one atom of each three that will be shared between the two lattices. Thus a boundary with high Σ might be expected to have a higher energy than one with low Σ. Low-angle boundaries, where the distortion is entirely accommodated by dislocations, are Σ1. Some other low-Σ boundaries have special properties, especially when the boundary plane is one that contains a high density of coincident sites. Examples include coherent twin boundaries (e.g., Σ3) and high-mobility boundaries in FCC materials (e.g., Σ7). Deviations from the ideal CSL orientation may be accommodated by local atomic relaxation or the inclusion of dislocations at the boundary.\n\nA boundary can be described by the orientation of the boundary to the two grains and the 3-D rotation required to bring the grains into coincidence. Thus a boundary has 5 macroscopic degrees of freedom. However, it is common to describe a boundary only as the orientation relationship of the neighbouring grains. Generally, the convenience of ignoring the boundary plane orientation, which is very difficult to determine, outweighs the reduced information.\nThe relative orientation of the two grains is described using the rotation matrix:\n\nUsing this system the rotation angle θ is:\n\nwhile the direction [uvw] of the rotation axis is:\n\nThe nature of the crystallography involved limits the misorientation of the boundary. A completely random polycrystal, with no texture, thus has a characteristic distribution of boundary misorientations (see figure). However, such cases are rare and most materials will deviate from this ideal to a greater or lesser degree.\n\nThe energy of a low-angle boundary is dependent on the degree of misorientation between the neighbouring grains up to the transition to high-angle status. In the case of simple \"tilt boundaries\" the energy of a boundary made up of dislocations with Burgers vector \"b\" and spacing \"h\" is predicted by the Read–Shockley equation:\n\nwhere:\n\nwith formula_8 is the shear modulus, formula_9 is Poisson's ratio, and formula_10 is the radius of the dislocation core. It can be seen that as the energy of the boundary increases the energy per dislocation decreases. Thus there is a driving force to produce fewer, more misoriented boundaries (i.e., grain growth).\n\nThe situation in high-angle boundaries is more complex. Although theory predicts that the energy will be a minimum for ideal CSL configurations, with deviations requiring dislocations and other energetic features, empirical measurements suggest the relationship is more complicated. Some predicted troughs in energy are found as expected while others missing or substantially reduced. \nSurveys of the available experimental data have indicated that simple relationships such as low formula_11 are misleading:\n\nIt is concluded that no general and useful criterion for low energy can be enshrined in a simple geometric framework. Any understanding of the variations of interfacial energy must take account of the atomic structure and the details of the bonding at the interface.\n\nThe excess volume is another important property in the characterization of grain boundaries. Excess volume was first proposed by Bishop in a private communication to Aaron and Bolling in 1972. It describes how much expansion is induced by the presence of a GB and is thought that the degree and susceptibility of segregation is directly proportional to this. Despite the name the excess volume is actually a change in length, this is because of the 2D nature of GBs the length of interest is the expansion normal to the GB plane. The excess volume (formula_12) is defined in the following way,\n\nat constant temperature formula_14, pressure formula_15 and number of atoms formula_16. Although a rough linear relationship between GB energy and excess volume exists the orientations where this relationship is violated can behave significantly differently affecting mechanical and electrical properties.\n\nExperimental techniques have been developed which directly probe the excess volume and have been used to explore the properties of nanocrystalline copper and nickel. Theoretical methods have also been developed and are in good agreement. A key observation is that there is an inverse relationship with the bulk modulus meaning that the larger the bulk modulus (the ability to compress a material) the smaller the excess volume will be, there is also direct relationship with the lattice constant, this provides methodology to find materials with a desirable excess volume for a specific application.\n\nThe movement of grain boundaries (HAGB) has implications for recrystallization and grain growth while subgrain boundary (LAGB) movement strongly influences recovery and the nucleation of recrystallization.\n\nA boundary moves due to a pressure acting on it. It is generally assumed that the velocity is directly proportional to the pressure with the constant of proportionality being the mobility of the boundary. The mobility is strongly temperature dependent and often follows an Arrhenius type relationship:\n\nThe apparent activation energy (Q) may be related to the thermally activated atomistic processes that occur during boundary movement. However, there are several proposed mechanisms where the mobility will depend on the driving pressure and the assumed proportionality may break down.\n\nIt is generally accepted that the mobility of low-angle boundaries is much lower than that of high-angle boundaries. The following observations appear to hold true over a range of conditions:\n\nSince low-angle boundaries are composed of arrays of dislocations and their movement may be related to dislocation theory. The most likely mechanism, given the experimental data, is that of dislocation climb, rate limited by the diffusion of solute in the bulk.\n\nThe movement of high-angle boundaries occurs by the transfer of atoms between the neighbouring grains. The ease with which this can occur will depend on the structure of the boundary, itself dependent on the crystallography of the grains involved, impurity atoms and the temperature. It is possible that some form of diffusionless mechanism (akin to diffusionless phase transformations such as martensite) may operate in certain conditions. Some defects in the boundary, such as steps and ledges, may also offer alternative mechanisms for atomic transfer.\n\nSince a high-angle boundary is imperfectly packed compared to the normal lattice it has some amount of \"free space\" or \"free volume\" where solute atoms may possess a lower energy. As a result, a boundary may be associated with a \"solute atmosphere\" that will retard its movement. Only at higher velocities will the boundary be able to break free of its atmosphere and resume normal motion.\n\nBoth low- and high-angle boundaries are retarded by the presence of particles via the so-called Zener pinning effect. This effect is often exploited in commercial alloys to minimise or prevent recrystallization or grain growth during heat-treatment.\n\nGrain boundaries are the preferential site for segregation of impurities, which may form a thin layer with a different composition from the bulk. For example, a thin layer of silica, which also contains impurity cations, is often present in silicon nitride. These grain boundary phases are thermodynamically stable and can be considered as quasi-two-dimensional phase, which may undergo to transition, similar to those of bulk phases. In this case structure and chemistry abrupt changes are possible at a critical value of a thermodynamic parameter like temperature or pressure. This may strongly affect the macroscopic properties of the material, for example the electrical resistance or creep rates. Grain boundaries can be analyzed using equilibrium thermodynamics but cannot be considered as phases, because they do not satisfy Gibbs'definition: they are inhomogeneous, may have a gradient of structure, composition or properties. For this reasons they are defined as complexion: an interfacial material or stata that is in thermodynamic equilibrium with its abutting phases, with a finite and stable thickness (that is typically 2–20 Å). A complexion need the abutting phase to exist and its composition and structure need to be different from the abutting phase. Contrary to bulk phases, complexions also depend on the abutting phase. For example, silica rich amorphous layer present in SiN, is about 10 Å thick, but for special boundaries this equilibrium thickness is zero. Complexion can be grouped in 6 categories, according to their thickness: monolayer, bilayer, trilayer, nanolayer (with equilibrium thickness between 1 and 2 nm) and wetting. In the first cases the thickness of the layer will be constant; if extra material is present it will segregate at multiple grain junction, while in the last case there is no equilibrium thickness and this is determined by the amount of secondary phase present in the material. One example of grain boundary complexion transition is the passage from dry boundary to biltilayer in Au-doped Si, which is produced by the increase of Au.\n\nGrain boundaries can cause failure mechanically by embrittlement through solute segregation (see Hinkley Point A nuclear power station) but they also can detrimentally affect the electronic properties. In metal oxides it has been shown theoretically that at the grain boundaries in AlO and MgO the insulating properties can be significantly diminished. Using density functional theory computer simulations of grain boundaries have shown that the band gap can be reduced by up to 45%. In the case of metals grain boundaries increase the resistivity as the size of the grains relative to the mean free path of other scatters becomes significant.\n\nIt is known that most materials are polycrystalline and contain grain boundaries and that grain boundaries can act as sinks and transport pathways for point defects. However experimentally and theoretically determining what effect point defects have on a system is difficult. Interesting examples of the complications of how point defect behave has been manifested in the temperature dependence of the Seebeck effect. In addition the dielectric and piezoelectric response can be altered by the distribution of point defects near grain boundaries. Mechanical properties can also be significantly influenced with properties such as the bulk modulus and damping being influenced by changes to the distribution of point defects within a material. It has also been found that the Kondo effect within graphene can be tuned due to a complex relationship between grain boundaries and point defects. Recent theoretical calculations have revealed that point defects can be extremely favourable near certain grain boundary types and significantly affect the electronic properties with a reduction in the band gap.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996540", "title": "Howard F. Ahmanson Sr.", "text": "Howard F. Ahmanson Sr.\n\nHoward F. Ahmanson Sr. (1906 – June 17, 1968) was an American businessman and philanthropist. He was the founder of an insurance and savings and loan association, H.F. Ahmanson & Co.. He made his fortune during the Great Depression selling fire insurance for property under foreclosure. He also bought real estate and invested in oil.\n\nAhmanson was born in 1906 in Omaha, Nebraska. When his father died in 1925, he moved with his mother to Los Angeles, California. He enrolled at the University of Southern California, graduating in 1927 with a B.S. in Business Administration. In college, he began selling fire insurance for National American Fire Insurance, a company founded by his father. Enlisting in the United States Navy in 1943, he spent a year in Washington, D.C. as a procurement officer.\n\nAhmanson launched his career by selling fire insurance in the late 1920s. During the Great Depression, he specialized in fire insurance on foreclosed properties and began buying real estate, which began to build his fortune. Through the rest of the decade, his business grew as he specialized in serving savings and loans. In 1944, while still on active duty in the Navy, he acquired control of National American Fire Insurance. After returning to Los Angeles in 1945, he began investing in savings and loans. In 1947, he bought Home Building and Loan (later known as Home Savings). In an era when state and federal regulations limited branching, Ahmanson and his top executive, Kenneth D. Childs took advantage of the home construction and real estate boom around Los Angeles to make Home Savings and Loan the largest thrift in the United States.\n\nInvolved with the California Republican Party since the mid-1930s, Ahmanson began to take a more active role in 1954 when his long-time friend Goodwin Knight ran for governor. With the Republican National Convention slated to be held in San Francisco in 1956 and the possibility that two favorite sons—Knight and Richard Nixon—might be running for president, Ahmanson became the focal point for a bitter fight within the party when Knight picked him to become vice chairman of the party. Although Ahmanson was elected to the position, the fight further poisoned the relationship between Knight and Nixon. After a heart attack, Ahmanson was forced to relinquish the position and withdraw from political leadership.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1950s, Ahmanson began to play a major role in the cultural life of Los Angeles. He served on the Board of the Museum of Science and Industry, helped found the support organization for the Los Angeles County Art Institute (also known as the Otis Art Institute), gave $2 million to help fund the construction of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, provided a major gift to support construction of the Los Angeles Music Center, and provided generous funding to his alma mater, the University of Southern California. He gave $1 million in 1962 to help fund the development of a biosciences research center.\n\nHe also influenced the cultural life of Southern California when he hired the artist Millard Sheets in 1953 to begin designing Home Savings' branches. Sheets integrated the work of local muralists, ceramic and glass artists into the design of the buildings.\n\nA successful yachtsman, he bought his first racing vessel in 1948 and named it Sirius. For years, he sailed out of the Newport Harbor. He was a multiple winner of the San Diego to Acapulco Race. In 1961, he and his crew aboard the M class yacht Sirius II (formerly Barlovento) won the Transpac race to Honolulu. His crew included USC President Norman Topping, architect William Pereira and architect Bill Ficker who later was skipper of Intrepid, winner of the 1970 Americas Cup.\n\nIn 1933, he married Dorothy Johnston Grannis. They had a son, Howard Ahmanson Jr. The couple divorced in 1962. In 1965, he married Caroline Leonetti Ahmanson, a fashion consultant who was a regular on the Art Linkletter show.\n\nHe died on June 17, 1968, while traveling with his wife and son in Belgium. A major portion of his assets went to the Ahmanson Foundation in Los Angeles.\n"}
{"id": "1996545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996545", "title": "Maple Grove Township, Cheboygan County, Michigan", "text": "Maple Grove Township, Cheboygan County, Michigan\n\nMaple Grove Township was a municipal township in southeastern Cheboygan County, Michigan. After it was learned that there were only 5 people in the township in the early 1940s, Maple Grove became part of Forest Township in the autumn of 1942.\n"}
{"id": "1996553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996553", "title": "Charles Douglas Jackson", "text": "Charles Douglas Jackson\n\nGeneral Charles Douglas (C. D.) Jackson (March 16, 1902 – September 18, 1964) was a United States government propagandist and senior executive of Time Inc. As an expert on psychological warfare he served in the Office of Strategic Services in World War II and later as Special Assistant to the President in the Eisenhower administration.\n\nJackson was born in New York City. After graduation from Princeton University in 1924, he entered the private sector. In 1931, Jackson took a position with Time Inc. In 1940, he was President of the Council for Democracy. From 1942 to 1943, he served as special assistant to the Ambassador to Turkey. From 1943 to 1945, he served with the OSS. From 1944 to 1945 he was Deputy Chief at the Psychological Warfare Division, SHAEF.\n\nAfter the war, he became Managing Director of Time-Life International from 1945 to 1949. He later became publisher of Fortune Magazine. From 1951 to 1952, he served as president of the anticommunist Free Europe Committee. He was a speech writer for Dwight Eisenhower's successful 1952 presidential campaign. He was assigned to be Eisenhower's liaison between the newly-created CIA and the Pentagon.\n\nFrom February 1953 to March 1954, Jackson served as adviser to the President on psychological warfare. He worked closely with the Psychological Strategy Board and was a member of the Operations Coordinating Board. He was also a member of the Committee on International Information Activities, which was known, after its chairman, William Harding Jackson, as the Jackson Committee.\n\nDuring 1953 and 1954, Jackson was key in establishing the Bilderberg Group and ensuring American participation. He attended meetings of the group in 1954, 1957, 1958, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, and 1964. \n\nJackson was a defender of Radio Free Europe, stating, \"Over the years, Radio Free Europe has never, in a single broadcast or leaflet, deviated from its essential policy, and did not broadcast a single program during the recent Polish and Hungarian developments which could be described as an 'incitement' program.\"\n\nHe later served in a position at the United Nations. From 1958 to 1960, he served as a speechwriter and White House manager after the departure of Sherman Adams and the death of John Foster Dulles. In 1960, he was publisher of \"Life\" magazine.\n\nJackson became acquainted with Whittaker Chambers at Time Inc. He developed a harsh opinion of Chambers as a psychopath. During the first two years of the Eisenhower administration, Jackson urged strong action by the President in dealing with personalities like Senator Joseph McCarthy and Chambers. In Jackson's opinion, they were damaging the anticommunist cause with self-serving and unstable behavior. Sherman Adams, Chief of Staff urged a more moderate, political approach, which the President followed.\n\nAfter Abraham Zapruder took the famous film in Dallas on November 22, 1963, Jackson purchased it on behalf of Time/Life to \"protect the integrity of the film.\" Upon viewing it on Sunday morning, he ordered it locked in a vault at the Time/Life building in Manhattan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996561", "title": "Sub Sub", "text": "Sub Sub\n\nSub Sub were an English dance act from Handforth, Cheshire composed of Jimi Goodwin and twin brothers Andy and Jez Williams.\n\nThe threesome met at school in 1985 and became regulars at The Haçienda while composing their own material together. They had an underground 12\" single (\"Space Face\" in 1991) and moderate commercial success in the early 1990s on Rob Gretton's label Rob's Records, including the single \"Ain't No Love (Ain't No Use)\" (featuring guest vocalist Melanie Williams) which reached No. 3 on the UK Singles Chart. The trio's only full-length album \"Full Fathom Five\" was released in September 1994.\n\nAfter a fire destroyed their recording studio on Blossom Street in the Ancoats area of Manchester on the Williams twins' birthday in 1996, they started anew as the more indie-oriented act Doves in 1998. An unreleased collection of tracks meant to be featured on the band's second full-length album was issued in 1998 as \"Delta Tapes\".\n\n\n\nPeak chart positions\n"}
{"id": "1996562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996562", "title": "The Secret Life of Words", "text": "The Secret Life of Words\n\nThe Secret Life of Words is a 2005 English-speaking Spanish-Irish drama film written and directed by Isabel Coixet and starring Sarah Polley, Tim Robbins, Javier Cámara and Julie Christie. It was released on December 15, 2006.\n\nTaciturn, partially deaf Hanna (Polley) is a Yugoslavian native working in a factory in Northern Ireland. She is forced to take a vacation by her boss, who tells her that her co-workers have been offended by her lack of socializing. After overhearing a conversation about a need for a nurse, she takes on a job as private nurse for burn victim Josef (Robbins). He is bedridden on an offshore oil rig after a fire on the rig, and has severe burns and is temporarily blinded. The rig is not operational awaiting an investigation, and few people remain on board.\n\nHanna talks very little, and especially does not want to talk about herself. Despite his pain, Josef is constantly making jokes, some of them humorous sexual advances. Hanna's care for him includes holding the urinal and washing his entire body. As they get closer, they start sharing their experiences. Unbeknownst to him, she listens over and over again to a message on his cell phone from a mysterious woman who was in love with him.\n\nHanna learns from a colleague that Josef was injured while trying to save a man who committed suicide by intentionally throwing himself into the oil-rig fire. Some other tragic connection between the two men is implied. He tells about a near-drowning experience because he cannot swim. Eventually Josef confides to Hanna his greatest secret guilt, and she tells him about her previous life in the former Yugoslavia. She describes in detail the horrors she endured during the Balkan Wars (Yugoslav Wars), including being kidnapped and repeatedly raped. She shares experiences of the other women, including one that was forced to shoot her own daughter, and the slow and agonizing death of her best friend. She tells of her own repeated torture and lets him feel the scars on her body from the wounds inflicted on her.\n\nJosef is not getting better, and at Hanna's initiative he is air-lifted off the oil rig to be taken to a hospital. When the helicopter lands, Josef wants Hanna to accompany him, but she walks away without a word. However, she leaves behind a backpack (apparently intentionally), and it contains enough information to give Josef a chance to find her. After he recovers, Josef travels to Denmark to visit a counselor that Hanna had seen after fleeing the war, seeking to learn more about her. He then tracks her down at the factory in Northern Ireland where she works. They talk, and at first she keeps her distance, saying she couldn't be with him because she thinks one day she could drown them both in her sorrow. When he tells her that he will \"learn to swim,\" she reciprocates the love. Later, Hanna is shown in a home with the voice of a young girl explaining that Hanna now has two sons, whom the narrator refers to as her brothers, indicating that the woman Hanna described as having been forced to kill her own child was, in fact, herself. The voice of her daughter ends the film with the hope that Hanna will one day be able to live completely in the \"now\" and no longer be haunted by the past.\n\nThe film was nominated for five Goya Awards and won four of them, including best film of the year:\n\nPolley was nominated as Best European Actress by the European Film Academy for her performance in this film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996565", "title": "Zvonimir Šeparović", "text": "Zvonimir Šeparović\n\nZvonimir Šeparović (born 14 September 1928) is a Croatian jurist and politician. Šeparović was a professor of Criminal Law at the University of Zagreb. He was also known as the pioneer of victimology and a vocal opponent of death penalty.\n\nAlthough he lacked any formal party or political affiliation, in 1991 he became foreign minister in the \"National Government\" of Franjo Gregurić. In 1992 he became the Permanent Representative of Croatia to the United Nations. He remained active in public life and did at one point become both a member of the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) as well as a member of the party's Central Committee.\n\nIn 2000, he entered the presidential race as an independent candidate, opposed to the official HDZ candidate Mate Granić. He finished last and, immediately after being informed about projected results, urged his supporters to vote for Dražen Budiša in the second round.\n\nŠeparović's wife, Branka, is a Croatian Radiotelevision reporter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996567", "title": "Zarumilla", "text": "Zarumilla\n\nZarumilla is a town in the Tumbes Region, in northwestern Peru. It has a population of 17,587 (1999) and is the capital of the Zarumilla Province. It is also the main settlement in the Zarumilla District.\n\nIt is located only a few kilometers away from the border town of Aguas Verdes, which is connected to Ecuador by a bridge.\n\nDuring the Ecuadorian–Peruvian War, Ecuadorian forces occupied the town, which was the setting of a battle on 23 July 1941. After this, Peruvian forces occupied the province of El Oro in Ecuador.\n"}
{"id": "1996572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996572", "title": "Auguste-Réal Angers", "text": "Auguste-Réal Angers\n\nSir Auguste-Réal Angers (4 October 1837 – 14 April 1919) was a Canadian judge and parliamentarian, holding seats both as a member of the House of Commons of Canada, and as a Senator. He was born in 1837 probably in Quebec City and died in Westmount, Quebec, in 1919.\n\nHe served in the cabinets of Sir John Sparrow David Thompson and Sir Mackenzie Bowell as Minister of Agriculture and as President of the Privy Council under Sir Charles Tupper. He also served as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Quebec after being elected in Montmorency in 1874 as a Conservative.\n\nHe was knighted in the 1913 New Year Honours.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996574", "title": "The Grove at Farmers Market", "text": "The Grove at Farmers Market\n\nThe Grove is a retail and entertainment complex in Los Angeles, located on parts of the historic Farmers Market.\n\nThe complex fills space previously occupied by an orchard and nursery, which were the last remains of a dairy farm owned by A. F. Gilmore in the latter part of the 19th century. The developers began demolition of an antiques alley and other older buildings on Third Street behind CBS Television City, and broke ground for the new mall in 1999. There was some controversy over potentially increasing traffic in a busy Los Angeles neighborhood that already offered several other shopping venues, including the Beverly Center. The Grove opened in 2002.\n\nThe Warner Bros. tabloid television news program \"Extra\" was also taped in the complex from 2010-2013, usually on the mall's lawn area.\n\nSince November 2015, it has also served as a venue for the finales of \"Dancing with the Stars\".\n\nThe history behind the development of the A. F. Gilmore property that eventually became The Grove was not without controversy. In 1984, A. F. Gilmore and neighboring CBS Television City hired Olympia & York California Equities Corp. to look into the possibility of creating a major business and entertainment complex that would have been twice as large as Universal City but would have required the demolition of all existing structures at both Farmers Market and CBS in the process. That plan was not well received by the City of Los Angeles or by its neighbors and the plan was later shelved. Two years later A. F. Gilmore and CBS hired Urban Investment & Development Co. of Chicago to create another development plan.\n\nIn 1989, A. F. Gilmore announced that it was going to build a US$300 million mall adjacent to the existing Farmers Market and that the new project would be managed by JMB/Urban Development of Chicago. The proposed mall was going to be anchored by May Company California, Nordstrom, and J. W. Robinson's along with over 100 other stores. Later, the project was scaled down to 2 anchors.\n\nDuring the next decade, A. F. Gilmore announced in 1998 a further scaled down plan with Caruso Affiliated as the new development partner for a new proposal that eventually became The Grove at Farmers Market, a $100-million project on . Nordstrom signed on in 2001 to build a store. By early 2001, toy retailer FAO Schwarz also sign on for along with Banana Republic, Gap, Barnes & Noble, J. Crew, Maggiano's Italian restaurant and a 14-screen movie complex to be the initial stores in the new project. After many delays, the retail center finally opened in March 2002.\n\nFAO Schwarz was one of the first retail casualties at the Grove when FAO Schwarz's parent company had to declare bankruptcy the following year. The Grove was able to replace the store with American Girl Place, which opened in April 2006. Abercrombie & Fitch closed their flagship store in February 2015, and was replaced seven months later with a Nike flagship store that opened in September 2015. Also in 2013, Banana Republic moved into a new space at the mall, and the old space was replaced with the first Topshop/Topman store in Los Angeles.\n\nIn the original plan, the 14-screen movie complex was going to be built by Pacific Theatres to be its first Arc Light multiplex. At the last minute, Pacific Theatres pulled out of the project and opted to build the multiplex in Hollywood, ArcLight Hollywood, instead. Caruso decided to fund the construction of the multiplex out of the company's own pockets. After 10 months of successful operations, Caruso decided to sell the multiplex outright. Pacific gave the highest bid at US$30 million.\n\nThe outdoor marketplace is located in Los Angeles' Fairfax District. Initial architectural design was performed in-house by David Williams of Caruso Affiliated Holdings and by KMD Architects of San Francisco. Caruso Affiliated claims to have modeled its architectural designs on indigenous Los Angeles buildings, influenced by classic historic districts, with shopping alleys, broad plazas, and intimate courtyards. The design features a series of Art Deco-style false fronts, with boxy interiors similar to those found in other contemporary stores.\n\nThe Grove features a large central park with an animated fountain designed by WET. Its music-fountain show plays every hour, though the feature has a non-musical program in between shows. The water's choreography is reminiscent of the Fountains of Bellagio in Las Vegas—also designed by WET—but on a much smaller scale.\n\nThe property also has a statue, \"The Spirit of Los Angeles\". Live shows are often performed there—on the grassy area by the fountains. An internal transit system uses electric-powered trolley cars to link The Grove and the adjacent Farmers Market.\n\nThe Grove is anchored by Nordstrom and has flagship stores such as Barnes & Noble and Apple. Abercrombie & Fitch previously had its West Coast flagship at the mall, which closed in 2015, and has since been replaced by Nike. Other stores in the center include Michael Kors, two-story Gap and J.Crew locations, Crate & Barrel, Nike, MAC Cosmetics, Coach, Barneys New York, and American Girl Place.\n\nThe Grove's many restaurants include chains like Maggiano's Little Italy and The Cheesecake Factory as well as smaller, local restaurants like Wood Ranch BBQ and Grill, 189 by Dominique Ansel, The Whisper Lounge, and La Piazza. The Original Farmers Market, located adjacent to The Grove and owned by the A. F. Gilmore Company, features numerous non-chain restaurants that have existed there for sometimes decades.\n\nThe main entertainment venue is a 14-screen movie theater complex owned by Pacific Theatres.\n\nIn mid-November, the Grove Christmas Tree is displayed, and lit every evening, beginning with the annual tree lighting ceremony. The tree remains lit every evening for the remainder of the Christmas season. Usually up to or more, it is one of the tallest Christmas trees in the Los Angeles area. In more recent years, The Grove also transforms \"into a winter wonderland\" where artificial snow falls every evening at 7 & 8 pm, through Christmas Eve.\n"}
{"id": "1996575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996575", "title": "Robert A. Brown", "text": "Robert A. Brown\n\nRobert A. Brown (born July 22, 1951) is the 10th president of Boston University. He was formerly the provost of MIT.\n\nBrown is a chemical engineer by training. A native of San Antonio, Texas, he received his B.S. and M.A. in chemical engineering from the University of Texas at Austin, and his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1979.\n\nIn 1979, Brown joined the faculty of MIT as an assistant professor. He worked at MIT for 25 years before moving across the Charles River to become the president of Boston University. During his tenure at MIT, he served as Warren K. Lewis Professor of Chemical Engineering, co-director of the MIT Supercomputer Facility, Head of the Department of Chemical Engineering, and Dean of Engineering. In 1998, he became the provost of MIT.\n\nBrown was selected as the 10th president of Boston University in May 2005. He was inaugurated in September 2005, succeeding Aram V. Chobanian, who served as President from October 2003 until June 2005.\n\nBrown became an honorary citizen of Singapore in January 2006 for being a key role in creating collaborations between the National University of Singapore, the Nanyang Technological University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and established world-class graduate research and educational programmes to Singapore. In February 2006, President George W. Bush appointed Brown to the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST), a panel established to maintain a steady stream of expert advice from the private sector and the academic community on a wide range of scientific and technical matters. Brown is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a director of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company.\n\nBrown served as a member of the Board of the Aalto University from 2008-2010. He was honored with the National Academy of Engineering Simon Ramo Founders Award in 2014 for his contributions to engineering and society.\n\nAs president of Boston University, Brown led the development of a strategic plan, \"Choosing to be Great\", that outlined commitments that the university must make to be among the best private research universities in the world, and has led the detailed implementation of the plan. In 2015, he released an updated strategic plan, which highlighted some of the successes of the original plan's implementation, including reducing the size of the incoming freshman class, improving the academic credentials of admitted students, and lowering the student-to-faculty ratio, resulting in higher student achievement and improved graduation rates.\n\nUnder Brown's presidency, the university has created the Arvind and Chandan Nandlal Kilachand Honors College, a residential honors college for Boston University undergraduates, which was dedicated in 2011, and the Frederick S. Pardee School of Global Studies, established in 2014, which combines traditional international relations with faculty in the humanities and social sciences interested in global students, as well as the traditional area studies centers.\n\nIn 2013, the University created the Initiative on Cities, with the former Mayor of Boston Thomas Menino as a founding co-director. The IOC focuses on engaging urban leaders, academics, and policy makers to help plan for the development of essential services and sustainable infrastructure necessary for cities to flourish. Following Mayor Menino's death in fall 2014, his legacy was continued through the Annual Menino Survey of Mayors.\n\nThe progress of Boston University has been acknowledged in many ways, including improved academic rankings and by bond rating improvements. Most notably, in 2012, Boston University was admitted to the Association of American Universities (AAU), the group of premier public and private research universities in the United States and Canada.\n\nNew facilities built during Brown's presidency include:\n\nMany of these initiatives have been driven by the University's first-ever comprehensive fundraising campaign, which was launched in 2012 with the goal of raising $1 billion by the end of 2017. The goal of the campaign was raised to $1.5 billion in September 2015.\n\nBrown lives in Brookline with his wife, Dr. Beverly Brown, who works at Boston University as director of development, industry at the School of Public Health at Boston University. They have two grown sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996583", "title": "Aleksandra Szwed", "text": "Aleksandra Szwed\n\nAleksandra \"Ola\" Szwed (born August 8, 1990 in Warsaw, Poland) is a Polish actress and singer of Polish and Nigerian ethnicity. She was a popular child actress, starring regularly since 1999 in \"Rodzina zastępcza\" (\"Foster Family\") television series, modified and renamed in 2004 to \"Rodzina zastępcza plus\" (\"Foster Family and Others\"). She also stars on TV talent shows. Before getting into television, she sang and danced in a children group backing the singer Majka Jeżowska. Szwed was on Season 11 of \"Taniec z Gwiazdami\" (the Polish version of \"Dancing with the Stars\") in 2010. Six years later she won 5th season of \"Twoja Twarz Brzmi Znajomo\" (local version of \"Your Face Sounds Familiar\" format).\n\n"}
{"id": "1996585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996585", "title": "List of Major League Baseball career wins leaders", "text": "List of Major League Baseball career wins leaders\n\nThis is a list of Major League Baseball (MLB) pitchers with 200 or more career wins. In the sport of baseball, a win is a statistic credited to the pitcher for the winning team who was in the game when his team last took the lead. A starting pitcher must complete five innings to earn a win; if this does not happen, the official scorer awards the win based on guidelines set forth in the official rules.\n\nCy Young holds the MLB win record with 511; Walter Johnson is second with 417. Young and Johnson are the only players to earn 400 or more wins. Among pitchers whose entire careers were in the post-1920 live-ball era, Warren Spahn has the most wins with 363. Only 24 pitchers have accumulated 300 or more wins in their careers. Roger Clemens is the only pitcher with 300 wins or more not elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nMLB officially only keeps statistics from the National League and the American League. This table includes statistics from other major leagues as well which are defunct now, including the American Association (AA), the National Association of Base Ball Players and the National Association of Professional Baseball Players.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996595", "title": "Cabrales", "text": "Cabrales\n\nCabrales is a municipality in the autonomous community of Asturias, northwestern Spain. It is situated between the Sierra de Cuera and the Picos de Europa, and is a region famous for its Cabrales cheese.\n\nImportant towns within the municipality include Arenas de Cabrales, one of the primary objectives of the Battle of El Mazuco in 1937. Nowadays Arenas' economy seems to be primarily based on tourism, although unlike many tourist centres it retains its authentic style – and hospitality.\n\nCabrales municipality is divided into nine parishes:\n"}
{"id": "1996597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996597", "title": "Gelato (software)", "text": "Gelato (software)\n\nGelato (from Italian language: \"Frozen\", or \"Icecream\") is a hardware-accelerated, offline renderer created by graphics card manufacturer Nvidia. It was originally intended for use with its Quadro FX GPU, although a Quadro class GPU is no longer a requirement, as it now also supports GeForce cards. Designed to produce film-quality images, Gelato uses a shading language very similar to RenderMan's. Gelato was first released in April 2004. NVIDIA stated in May 2008 that it will no longer be developing or supporting the Gelato software products\n\nWith the release of Gelato 2.0, and in a push to popularize GPU accelerated rendering (as opposed to the traditional CPU rendering), Nvidia released a free version of Gelato for PCs. Some of the more advanced features on this version were locked out, such as those used for production rendering. This was done to encourage more professional users to purchase the full product. However, on 23 May 2008, Nvidia released Gelato Pro as a free download without any additional license. It does not come with support from Nvidia, but there are user forums.\nThe original renderer was priced at several thousand United States dollars (USD) per node. In order to boost the adoption of the product by a wider user base, in late 2006, Nvidia decided to split the product up into two versions, a free version called Gelato and a professional version called Gelato Pro, which sold for US$1,500 per render node. Gelato Pro is now also offered as a free download. The professional version includes the following extra features.\n\n\nThe whole 'Gelato Zone', including Gelato Pro 2.2, was removed from Nvidia's website around the end of July 2008, in favour of the new CUDA-based OptiX ray tracing engine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996598", "title": "Richard Calder", "text": "Richard Calder\n\nRichard Calder (1943-3 Nov 2014) was a senior official at the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).\n\nCalder held a Bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Connecticut and a master's degree in information systems from George Washington University. He was a United States Navy radio operator. From 1966, he was as communications officer in the CIA Directorate of Administration (DA) Office of Communications (OC). It was in this role that he found himself trapped for several days inside the CIA's base in Benghazi, Libya, during riots in the wake of the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. His chief at the time was Thomas Twetten, who rose to become deputy director for operations (DDO).\n\nCalder served in numerous roles within the CIA, including Directorate of Operations (DO) case officer, deputy chief of the DO Near East Division (NE) for Arab operations, and chief of DO Operations and Resource Management Staff.\n\nIn late 1995, then-CIA Director John M. Deutch made Calder an offer to run the DA, of whose inefficiencies he had been sharply critical, with a free hand. Against nearly universal resistance among his own directorate's leadership, Calder instituted activity-based costing and a working-capital fund, returning the majority of his directorate's budget back to the operational units and requiring his directorate to offer its services on a reimbursable basis. The net result was a freeing up of significant resources for use in the Agency's main operational and analytic missions.\n\nHe retired from the CIA in 2001. That year he was named president of Abraxas Corporation by company founder and former CIA director Richard Helms and served until his retirement in 2008.\n\nCalder was married with two children and lived in Vienna, Virginia. He died from a heart attack.\n"}
{"id": "1996610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996610", "title": "Backwashing (water treatment)", "text": "Backwashing (water treatment)\n\nIn terms of water treatment, including water purification and sewage treatment, backwashing refers to pumping water backwards through the filters media, sometimes including intermittent use of compressed air during the process. Backwashing is a form of preventive maintenance so that the filter media can be reused. In water treatment plants, backwashing can be an automated process that is run by local programmable logic controllers (PLCs). The backwash cycle is triggered after a set time interval, when the filter effluent turbidity is greater than a treatment guideline or when the differential pressure (head loss) across the filter exceeds a set value.\n\nWater treatment filters that can be backwashed include rapid sand filters, water softening systems, pressure filters and granular activated carbon (GAC) filters. Diatomaceous earth filters are backwashed according to the proprietary arrangement of pumps, valves and filters associated with the filtration system. Slow sand filters and self-cleaning screen filters employ mechanisms other than backwashing to remove trapped particles. To keep water treatment filters functional, they have to be cleaned periodically to remove particulates. Ineffective backwashing is one of the main reasons that water treatment filters fail.\n\nBackwashing of granular media filters involves several steps. First, the filter is taken off line and the water is drained to a level that is above the surface of the filter bed. Next, compressed air is pushed up through the filter material causing the filter bed to expand breaking up the compacted filter bed and forcing the accumulated particles into suspension. After the air scour cycle, clean backwash water is forced upwards through the filter bed continuing the filter bed expansion and carrying the particles in suspension into backwash troughs suspended above the filter surface. In some applications, air and water streams are simultaneously pushed upwards through the granular media followed by a rinse water wash. Backwashing continues for a fixed time, or until the turbidity of the backwash water is below an established value. At the end of the backwash cycle, the upward flow of water is terminated and the filter bed settles by gravity into its initial configuration. Water to be filtered is then applied to the filter surface until the filter clogs and the backwash cycle needs to be repeated.\n\nSome water treatment filters use surface wash systems that break up the heavily clogged, granular media surface layer. Surface wash systems are buried in the top of the filter media or are suspended above the filter media surface. John R. Baylis developed a fixed grid system which consisted of pipes with nozzles that injected jets of water into the filter material during expansion. Rotating arms use jets of water to break up the clogged filter surface and to rotate a movable arm through the filter material. A surface wash step in a backwash cycle usually takes place at the beginning of the filter bed cleaning process.\n\nSpent backwash water is either discharged without treatment to a sanitary sewer system or is treated and recycled within the plant. Historically, backwash water was discharged directly to surface water supplies; however, direct discharge is now highly regulated through NPDES discharge permits and is often discouraged. Used backwash water contains high concentrations of particulate material. Typical treatment processes include coagulation, flocculation and sedimentation. High molecular weight synthetic organic polymers are sometimes added to facilitate the formation of settleable floc. Failure of a backwash treatment process and reintroduction of the resulting poor quality water into the main water purification plant flow stream can cause overall process upsets and result in the production of poor quality treated drinking water.\n\nAs a water conservation measure, many water purification plants recycle filter backwash water and other product streams from sludge treatment processes back to the beginning of the plant. On June 8, 2001, the USEPA released a final regulation governing acceptable practices for recycling backwash water. The purpose of the regulation was to improve the control of microbial contaminants such as \"Cryptosporidium\" by reducing the potential for recycled product streams to upset the removal efficiency of the main treatment processes. The regulation requires that spent filter backwash water be recycled to the front of the treatment plant so that all available particle removal treatment processes can be employed to remove the microbial and particulate material from the backwash water.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996622", "title": "FannyPack", "text": "FannyPack\n\nFor the clothing accessory, see Fanny pack.\n\nFannyPack was a New York City-based electronic/hip hop group that was formed in 2002 by music producers Matt Goias and \"Fancy\". The band featured vocals by Jessibel Suthiwong, Belinda Lovell, and Cat Hartwell.\n\nThe group's 2003 debut album, \"So Stylistic\", was released in the United States by Tommy Boy Records and featured the hit single, \"Cameltoe\". In 2005, Fannypack released their follow-up LP, \"See You Next Tuesday\", which featured guest vocals by Brooke Lugo and dancehall superstar, Vegas. \n\nAfter FannyPack, Cat Hartwell joined the band Holy Hail. Belinda Lovell joined the group Retro Glam and worked on a solo album.\n\n\nPost-FannyPack\n\nBelinda Lovell as a member of \"Retro Glam\"\n\n\nBelinda Lovell as part of Retro Glam has also appeared in:\n\nOpened for Madonna on her 2006 \"Confessions Tour\" in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "1996624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996624", "title": "Other People's Money", "text": "Other People's Money\n\nOther People's Money is a 1991 American comedy-drama film starring Danny DeVito, Gregory Peck and Penelope Ann Miller. It was based on the play of the same name by Jerry Sterner. The film adaptation was directed by award winner Norman Jewison, and written by Alvin Sargent.\n\nLawrence \"Larry the Liquidator\" Garfield (Danny DeVito) is a successful corporate raider who has become rich buying up companies and selling off their assets. With the help of a computerized stock analyzing program called \"Carmen\", Garfield has identified New England Wire & Cable Company as his next target. The struggling company is run by the benevolent and folksy Andrew \"Jorgy\" Jorgenson (Gregory Peck) and is the primary employer in its small Rhode Island town in New England. The company is doing okay and stock is rising.\n\nGarfield decides to take over the company. After Jorgy learns that he has filed a Schedule 13D report, and after stubbornly insisting that no outsider can seize control of a business his father began, Jorgy is finally persuaded to hire his stepdaughter Kate (Penelope Ann Miller), a big-city lawyer, to defend against a hostile takeover. Garfield is instantly smitten with the beautiful Kate, although he is on to her tactics and does not waver from his goal of becoming the majority stockholder of New England Wire & Cable. Garfield tactlessly and unsuccessfully tries to seduce her. Despite their antagonism, Kate finds herself attracted to Garfield's bold nature.\n\nThe takeover attempt begins to fracture the New England Wire & Cable Company family. Kate's mother Bea (Piper Laurie) secretly travels to Garfield's offices to offer one million dollars in greenmail to Garfield if he'll go away, but he refuses, stating, \"I don't take money from widows or orphans.\" Trusted company president Bill Coles (Dean Jones), fearful that the takeover will leave him with nothing, offers to let Garfield vote his shares in the company in exchange for a million-dollar payout. Garfield agrees, but specifies that Coles will get only half as much if his shares fail to make up the margin of victory.\n\nGarfield concedes to Jorgy's offer to let the matter be settled at the annual shareholder's meeting. Relying on the support of longtime friends and investors, Jorgy makes an impassioned plea to save the company, appealing to the traditions of manufacturing as opposed to the new breed of capitalism which Larry the Liquidator represents, in which buyers of companies create no products or jobs and are interested only in money. The shareholders seem swayed by Jorgy's speech and boo Garfield when he gets up to give a rebuttal.\n\nIn his rebuttal, Garfield compares New England Wire & Cable to the last buggy whip manufacturer, arguing that even though the company's product may be high quality, changing technology has rendered it obsolete. Rather than running a failing business into the ground, he contends that the shareholders should follow his lead and get what value they can from the stock before the company's inevitable demise. At least when this company is liquidated, he says, they'll end up with a few dollars in their pocket.\n\nWhen the vote is taken, the shareholders agree to give Garfield controlling interest in the company. The margin of victory is greater than Coles' shares and thus he does not receive the full amount he betrayed Jorgy to get.\n\nBack at home in Manhattan, Garfield finds himself uncharacteristically despondent after his victory, having realized he has lost his chance for a romance with Kate. Just then, Kate calls. She's been having discussions with a Japanese automaker that wants to hire New England Wire & Cable to manufacture stainless steel wire cloth for making automobile airbags, something which will make the company profitable again on a new expanding industrial product. An excited Garfield invites her to dinner to discuss it. Kate tells him lunch, “strictly business, you know where.” Garfield blushes and smiles at this.\n\n\nSome of the scenes that take place inside the factory were shot in the now defunct \"Seymour Specialty and Wire\" in Seymour, Connecticut. Other scenes were shot in the (also defunct) Gilbert and Bennett mill in Georgetown, Connecticut.\n\nThe film received mixed to negative reviews, with a 31% rating on review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes based on 16 reviews. Roger Ebert of \"The Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 3.5 out of 4 stars, but said 'I didn't like the very last scene of “Other People’s Money.” It felt tacked on, manufactured, concocted out of a Hollywood studio's knee-jerk need to provide a smileyface ending that was not in the spirit of the film'. Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" said of Sargent's adaptation, 'culminates in a speechy but effective debate about the merits of old-fashioned business versus the corporate takeover,' but still felt that the film was 'too genial to be hard-hitting.'\n\n"}
{"id": "1996628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996628", "title": "2005 in country music", "text": "2005 in country music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in country music that took place in the year 2005.\n\n\n\nThe following songs placed within the Top 20 on the Hot Country Songs charts in 2005:\n\nThe following albums placed within the Top 50 on the Top Country Albums charts in 2005:\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(presented February 8, 2006 in Los Angeles)\"\n\n\"(presented April 2, 2006 in Halifax)\"\n\n\"(presented April 11 in Nashville)\"\n\n\n\"(presented May 23, 2006 in Las Vegas)\"\n\n\"(presented in Sydney on October 23, 2005)\"\n\n\"(presented September 12 in Calgary)\"\n\n\"(presented November 15 in New York City)\"\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "1996636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996636", "title": "List of Aerolíneas Argentinas destinations", "text": "List of Aerolíneas Argentinas destinations\n\nAerolíneas Argentinas was formed by the Argentine's Ministry of Transport as a state corporation in , when it took over the routes and assets of four struggling airlines. A year and a half later, in late , the company introduced the Buenos Aires–Rio de Janeiro–Natal–Dakar–Lisbon–Paris–Frankfurt route, using 48-seater DC-6 equipment, linking Argentina with Germany for the first time since 1933. By , the carrier's route network was long. Upon taking delivery of the first three Comet 4s, which also became the first jetliners in the airline's fleet, these brand new aircraft were deployed on the Buenos Aires–London, Buenos Aires–New York City, and Buenos Aires–Santiago de Chile routes.\n\n, the airline's top five international routes in terms of available seat kilometre (ASK) were Buenos Aires-Ezeiza–Madrid-Barajas, Buenos Aires-Ezeiza–Miami, Buenos Aires-Ezeiza–Barcelona, Buenos Aires-Ezeiza–Rome-Fiumicino and Buenos Aires-Ezeiza–Sydney; European routes account for about 41% of total ASK. In , the airline was granted permission to operate services to Atlanta, Detroit, Guangzhou, Las Vegas and Tel Aviv, yet it was announced it will not fly to these destinations with its own aircraft in the near future. In , the carrier announced the discontinuance of services to Sydney starting in . Aerolíneas had previously served Sydney via Auckland until the city was removed from the airline international network in . After leaving the Buenos Aires–New York JFK market unserved since 2008, Aerolíneas Argentinas resumed these flights in . , the airline top five domestic airports by available seats are Aeroparque Jorge Newbery, Ingeniero Aeronáutico Ambrosio L.V. Taravella International Airport, Ministro Pistarini International Airport, San Carlos de Bariloche Airport and Comandante Armando Tola International Airport.\n\nFollowing is a list of destinations the airline flies to, . Destinations served by the carrier's subsidiary Austral Líneas Aéreas are also provided, as their operations are fully integrated into the Aerolíneas Argentinas' ones. Destinations in the list below are presented by country, and for each of them the cities served are provided, along with the airport served. The list also includes airports that serve either as a hub or as a focus city for the airline, as well as destinations served on a seasonal basis. Terminated destinations are also listed, yet for Aerolíneas Argentinas only.\n"}
{"id": "1996645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996645", "title": "Old Gringo", "text": "Old Gringo\n\nOld Gringo is a 1989 American romantic adventure film starring Jane Fonda, Gregory Peck and Jimmy Smits. It was directed by Luis Puenzo and co-written with Aída Bortnik, based on the novel \"The Old Gringo\" by Mexican novelist Carlos Fuentes.\n\nThe film was screened out of competition at the 1989 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nAmerican schoolteacher Harriet Winslow goes to Mexico to work as a governess for the Miranda family, and becomes caught up in the Mexican revolution. Mexicans transporting her from Chihuahua, secretly soldiers of Pancho Villa's army, use her luggage to smuggle weapons to the servants at the Miranda hacienda. The servants in turn aid the attacking revolutionary army of General Tomas Arroyo. During the attack, a sardonic \"Old Gringo\", American author Ambrose Bierce, joins the fighting on the side of the revolutionaries; he operates a railway switch that sends a railroad flatcar laden with explosives to its target.\n\nAfter the Miranda hacienda is taken, Winslow becomes romantically attracted alternately to Bierce and then Arroyo. Bierce has come to Mexico to die in anonymity; he feels that his fifty years as a writer have won him praise only for his style, not for the truth that he's tried to tell. Arroyo, by contrast, has returned to the hacienda where he was born. His father was a Miranda who had raped his peasant mother. Later in his youth, Arroyo murdered his father.\n\nWhile his army enjoys previously unknown luxuries on the war-damaged palatial estate, Arroyo becomes obsessed with his past. Transfixed by childhood memories of his family buried there, he fails to move his army when ordered by Villa. To bring Arroyo to his senses and avert a mutiny of his officers, Bierce burns papers that the illiterate Arroyo considers sacred—papers that supposedly entitle the peasants to the hacienda land. Arroyo responds by shooting Bierce in the back, killing him. Bierce dies in Winslow's arms.\n\nWinslow goes to the U.S. embassy in Mexico to claim Bierce's body and bring it back to the United States. She claims that he was her long-lost father. This puts Villa in a predicament because a U.S. citizen was murdered by one of his generals. Wishing to avoid American meddling in the revolution, he has Winslow sign a statement that her father had joined the revolution and was executed for disobeying orders, as was General Arroyo who had shot him, and that she witnessed both executions. She signs the statement, is provided with the coffin bearing Bierce's body, and witnesses the execution of Arroyo.\n\nBefore its release in theatres, the film was booed at the Cannes film festival. Roger Ebert in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" said: \"There is a potentially wonderful story at the heart of \"Old Gringo\", but the movie never finds it--the screenplay blasts away in every direction except the bulls-eye. ... It's heavy on disconnected episodes, light on drama and storytelling.\" Janet Maslin in the \"New York Times\" said: \"... the film's version of romance is no less aimless than its battle scenes. ... The sly, cantankerous character of Ambrose Bierce, an aged cynic surprised and delighted to find himself vibrantly alive and at last in control of his own destiny, reveals in Mr. Peck something vigorous and new.\" The film received mixed to negative reviews, with a 42% \"Freshness\" rating at the review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes. It was a box-office failure. Jane Fonda received a Razzie Award nomination for Worst Actress for her performance in the film, where she ended up losing to Heather Locklear for \"The Return of Swamp Thing\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1996647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996647", "title": "New Hampshire Route 25", "text": "New Hampshire Route 25\n\nNew Hampshire Route 25 is a long east–west state highway in New Hampshire. It runs completely across the state from Vermont to Maine.\n\nThe western terminus of Route 25 is at the Vermont state line on the Connecticut River in Piermont, where the road continues west as Vermont Route 25. The eastern terminus is on the Maine state line in the town of Freedom, where the road continues east as Maine State Route 25.\n\nIn the 1920s, NH 25 was part of New England Interstate Route 25, a route in the New England Interstate Highway system.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 25A is a long east–west state highway in New Hampshire connecting Wentworth and Orford. It runs through a scenic, mountainous area of western New Hampshire.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 25A is at the Vermont state line on the Connecticut River in the town of Orford, where the route continues west as the short Vermont Route 25A. from the state line, VT 25A ends at U.S. Route 5 in Fairlee. The eastern terminus of NH 25A is in the town of Wentworth at New Hampshire Route 25 and New Hampshire Route 118.\n\nIn 2002, the state designated most of NH 25A as the Governor Meldrim Thomson Scenic Highway. The highway runs from Wentworth to the junction with New Hampshire Route 10 in Orford. The road was named in honor of the late Gov. Meldrim Thomson, Jr., who died April 19, 2001. Thomson's Mt. Cube Farm lined both sides of the highway.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 25B (abbreviated NH 25B) is a east–west state highway in New Hampshire. It runs through the town of Center Harbor in the state's Lakes Region.\n\nThe eastern terminus is in Center Harbor at New Hampshire Route 25. The western terminus is in Center Harbor at U.S. Route 3 and New Hampshire Route 25. The entire length of road is known as Dane Road and as Plymouth Street.\n\nNew Hampshire Route 25C (abbreviated NH 25C) is a east–west state highway in New Hampshire. It runs through the scenic, mountainous area connecting Warren and Piermont.\n\nThe western terminus of NH 25C is in Piermont at New Hampshire Route 10 and New Hampshire Route 25. The eastern terminus is in Warren at NH 25 and New Hampshire Route 118. The entire length of highway is known as Lake Tarleton Road.\n"}
{"id": "1996652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996652", "title": "Mediterranean Revival architecture", "text": "Mediterranean Revival architecture\n\nMediterranean Revival is a architectural style introduced in the United States in the waning nineteenth century variously incorporating references from Spanish Renaissance, Spanish Colonial, Beaux-Arts, Italian Renaissance, Arabic Andalusian architecture, and Venetian Gothic architecture.\n\nPeaking in popularity during the 1920s and 1930s, the movement drew heavily on the style of palaces and seaside villas and applied them to the rapidly expanding coastal resorts of Florida and California.\n\nStructures are typically based on a rectangular floor plan, and feature massive, symmetrical primary façades. Stuccoed walls, red tiled roofs, windows in the shape of arches or circles, one or two stories, wood or wrought iron balconies with window grilles, and articulated door surrounds are characteristic. Keystones were occasionally employed. Ornamentation may be simple or dramatic. Lush gardens often appear.\n\nThe style was most commonly applied to hotels, apartment buildings, commercial structures, and residences. Architects August Geiger and Addison Mizner were foremost in Florida, while Bertram Goodhue, Sumner Spaulding, and Paul Williams were in California.\n\nThere are also examples of this architectural style in Cuba, such as the Hotel Nacional de Cuba, in Havana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996661", "title": "The Flies", "text": "The Flies\n\nThe Flies () is a play by Jean-Paul Sartre, written in 1943. It is an adaptation of the Electra myth, previously used by the Greek playwrights Sophocles, Aeschylus and Euripides. \nThe play recounts the story of Orestes and his sister Electra in their quest to avenge the death of their father Agamemnon, king of Argos, by killing their mother Clytemnestra and her husband Aegisthus, who had deposed and killed him. \n\nSartre incorporates an existentialist theme into the play, having Electra and Orestes engaged in a battle with Zeus and his Furies, who are the gods of Argos and the centerpiece for self-abnegating religious rituals. This results in fear and a lack of for Zeus's worshippers, who live in constant shame of their humanity.\n\nOrestes first arrives as a traveler with his tutor/slave, and does not seek involvement. Orestes has been traveling in a quest to find himself. He enters the story more as an adolescent with a girlish face, one who does not know his path or responsibility. He enters the city and introduces himself as Philebus (\"lover of youth\"), to disguise his true identity. Zeus has followed Orestes on his journey, and finally approaches him in Argos, introducing himself as Demetrios (\"devoted to Demeter\", a goddess who was in fact Zeus' own sister). Orestes has come on the eve of the day of the dead, a day of mourning to commemorate the killing of Agamemnon fifteen years prior. No townsperson aside from an aphasic \"idiot boy\" will speak to Orestes or his tutor because they are strangers and not mourning, remorseful or dressed in all black. Orestes meets his sister, Electra, and sees the terrible state that both she and the city are in. Electra has been treated as a servant girl since her mother and Aegisthus killed her father. She longs to exact her revenge and refuses to mourn for the sins and death of Agamemnon or of the townspeople.\n\nOrestes goes to the ceremony of the dead, where the angry souls are released by Aegisthus for one day where they are allowed out to roam the town and torment those who have wronged them. The townspeople have to welcome the souls by setting a place at their tables and welcoming them into their beds. The townspeople have seen their purpose in life as constantly mourning and being remorseful of their \"sins\". Electra, late to the ceremony, dances on top the cave in a white gown to symbolize her youth and innocence. She dances and yells to announce her freedom and denounce the expectation to mourn for deaths not her own. The townspeople begin to believe and think of freedom until Zeus sends a contrary sign to deter them, and to deter Orestes from confronting the present King.\n\nOrestes and Electra unite and eventually resolve to kill Aegisthus and Clytemnestra. Zeus visits Aegisthus to tell him of Orestes's plan and convince him to stop it. Here Zeus reveals two secrets of the gods: 1) people are free and 2) once they are free and realize it, the gods cannot touch them. It then becomes a matter between men. The ceremony of the dead and its fable has enabled Aegisthus to keep control and order over the town, instilled fear among them. Aegisthus refuses to fight back when Orestes and Electra confront him. Orestes kills Aegisthus and then he alone goes to Clytemnestra's bed chamber and kills her as well.\n\nOrestes and Electra flee to the temple of Apollo to escape men and the flies. At the temple, the furies wait for Orestes and Electra to leave the sanctuary so the furies can attack and torture them. Electra fears her brother and begins to try to avoid her responsibility for the murders. She attempts to evade guilt and remorse by claiming she had only dreamt of murder for 15 years, as a form of release, while Orestes is the actual murderer. Orestes tries to keep her from listening to the Furies - which are convincing her to repent and accept punishment.\n\nZeus attempts to convince Orestes to atone for his crime, but Orestes says he cannot atone for something that is not a crime. Zeus tells Electra he has come to save them and will gladly forgive and give the throne to the siblings, if they repent. Orestes refuses the throne and belongings of the man he killed. Orestes feels he has saved the city by removing the veil from their eyes and exposing them to freedom. Zeus says the townspeople hate him and are waiting to kill him; he is alone. The scene at the temple of Apollo represent a decision between God's law and self-law (autonomy). Zeus points out that Orestes is foreign even to himself. Sartre demonstrates Orestes' authenticity by stating that, since his past does not determine his future, Orestes has no set identity: he freely creates his identity anew at every moment. He can never know who he is with certainty because his identity changes from moment to moment.\n\nOrestes still refuses to repudiate his actions. In response, Zeus tells Orestes of how he himself has ordered the universe and nature based on Goodness, and by rejecting this Goodness, Orestes has rejected the universe itself. Orestes accepts his exile from nature and from the rest of humanity. Orestes argues Zeus is not the king of man and blundered when he gave them freedom - at that point they ceased to be under god's power. Orestes announces he will free the townspeople from their remorse and take on all their guilt and \"sin\" (author makes reference to Jesus Christ). Here Orestes somewhat illustrates Nietzsche's overman by showing the townspeople his power to overcome pity. Electra chases after Zeus and promises him her repentance. \n\nWhen Electra repudiates her crime, Orestes says that she is bringing guilt on herself. Guilt results from the failure to accept responsibility for one's actions as a product of one's freedom. To repudiate one's actions is to agree that it was wrong to take those actions in the first place. In doing this, Electra repudiates her ability to freely choose her own values (to Sartre, an act of bad faith). Instead, she accepts the values that Zeus imposes on her. In repudiating the murders of Clytemnestra and Aegisthus, Electra allows Zeus to determine her past for her. She surrenders her freedom by letting her past take on a meaning that she did not give to it by herself, and as a result she becomes bound to a meaning that did not come from her. Electra can choose, like Orestes, to see the murders as right and therefore to reject feelings of guilt. Instead, she allows Zeus to tell her that the murders were wrong and to implicate her in a crime.\n\nThe Furies decide to leave her alone in order to wait for Orestes to weaken so they can attack him. The Tutor enters but the Furies will not let him through. Orestes orders him to open the door so that he may address his people. Orestes informs them he has taken their crimes upon himself and that they must learn to build a new life for themselves without remorse. He wishes to be a king without a kingdom, and promises to leave, taking their sins, their dead, and their flies with him. Telling the story of the pied piper, Orestes walks off into the light as the Furies chase after him.\n\nZeus (Greek) / Jupiter (Roman) – a major antagonist in the play, Zeus is introduced in the exposition as \"god of flies and death\", although he is traditionally associated with sky, lightning, thunder, law, order, and justice.\n\nOrestes (Philebus) – the play's major protagonist, he is the brother of Electra and the son of Agamemnon.\n\nElectra – the sister of Orestes and the daughter of Agamemnon.\n\nAgamemnon – the former king of Argos and the father of Orestes and Electra, Agamemnon was murdered by Aegisthus prior to the story's onset. Orestes' desire to avenge his father's death is a major plot device in the play.\n\nClytemnestra – the wife of Aegisthus and the mother of Orestes and Electra.\n\nAegisthus – the husband of Clytemnestra.\n\nFuries – also known as the Erinyes or \"infernal goddesses\", the Furies serve as Zeus' enforcers in Argos and punish those who swear false oaths.\n\nIn 1941, Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir attended performances of a production of \"The Suppliant Maidens\", in which Olga Kosakiewicz had a part.\n\nYears later, Sartre stated: \"The real drama, the drama I should have liked to write, was that of the terrorist who, by ambushing Germans, becomes the instrument for the execution of fifty hostages.\" Noted Sartre biographer Annie Cohen-Solal views this statement as an allusion to a series of events that occurred in occupied Paris in 1941: a German officer was killed at the Métro Barbès and in retaliation the German military forces executed eight prisoners in September and then 98 prisoners in October. However, the German censors would have banned such a play, so Sartre was forced to look for other subjects. He settled on the idea of using the story of the Atridae as a vehicle. De Beauvoir says that the first act was inspired by the town of Emborio, \"the village on Santorin which had presented so sinister at atmosphere to us when we first reached it [during a holiday] -- all those blank, shuttered houses under the blazing noonday sun.\" She also says that she, after reading a book about the Etruscans, informed Sartre about the Etruscans' funeral ceremonies, and he found inspiration in this for the second act.\n\nOne scholar has explained the relationship between \"The Flies\" and Sartre's philosophy thus:\n\nSartre's idea of freedom specifically requires that the being-for-itself be neither a being-for-others nor a being-in-itself. A being-for-others occurs when human beings accept morals thrust onto them by others. A being-in-itself occurs when human beings do not separate themselves from objects of nature. Zeus represents both a moral norm, the Good, and Nature. Freedom is not the ability to physically do whatever one wants. It is the ability to mentally interpret one's own life for oneself—to define oneself and create one's own values. Even the slave can interpret his or her life in different ways, and in this sense the slave is free.\n\n\"The Flies\" also shows the effect of Nietzsche on Sartre. Orestes represents the idea of the overman, as described in works such as \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\"; the ability to free one's mind from dogma and the impressions of others, and instead think on a higher level. Like Zarathustra, Orestes feels he must \"go down\" to the people and open their eyes (though unlike Zarathustra, Orestes does it out of compassion). When debating Zeus, Orestes also talks about being \"beyond\" the moral yoke others allow to be placed on them - an idea explicitly discussed in \"Beyond Good and Evil\", and implicitly described in other works by Nietzsche. Orestes is not bound by the false dichotomy of \"good\" and \"evil,\" and instead accepts what has been done, choosing to focus on the present and the future.\n\nSartre continued a twentieth-century tradition of an incestuous flirtation between Électre and Oreste in Les Mouches. This flirtation may be understood as a display of Sartrean facticity, perhaps inspired by the incestuous siblings of Andre Gide’s Œdipe, and philosophically motivated by Gide and Sartre’s shared antipathy to Freud’s repression theory. \n\n\"The Flies\" was first produced in Paris in the summer of 1943. The production ran at the Théâtre de la Cité. Sartre had to get German censors to approve the play, because Paris was occupied by the German army. A sculptor was employed to create \"great blocks of stone\", as well as settings, masks, and statues; large numbers of extras were also used. During one of the rehearsals, a young man came up to Sartre and introduced himself; it turned out to be Albert Camus. The production was poorly attended and got a lukewarm reception from critics. Simone de Beauvoir's assessment of the play's effectiveness and reception was as follows: \"It was impossible to mistake the play's implications; the word Liberty, dropped from Orestes' mouth, burst on us like a bomb. The German critic of \"Pariser Zeitung\" saw this very clearly, and said so, though at the same time taking the credit for giving the play a favorable notice. Michel Leiris praised \"The Flies\" in a clandestine edition of \"Les Lettres francaises\", and emphasized its political significance. Most reviewers pretended not to have noticed any such allusion; they pitched into the play viciously, but, so they alleged, on purely literary grounds . . . \"\n\nAfter a first smaller US production at Vassar College early in April 1947, the play received its New York City debut at the President Theatre on April 16, 1947. It was directed by the head of the Dramatic Workshop, German expatriate stage director Erwin Piscator. \"The New York Times\" critic Lester Bernstein reacted favorably to the play and its production: \n\n\"The Flies\" is also a modern take on Aeschylus’ trilogy, the \"Oresteia\". While Sartre keeps many aspects of the original story by Aeschylus, he adjusts the play to fit his views, with strong themes of freedom from psychological slavery. He focuses most on the second play in the Oresteia trilogy, only referencing the first play, \"Agamemnon\", with the mention of Agamemnon’s death by Clytemnestra and Aegisthus. The plot of the third play, \"The Eumenides\" is also excluded because in that play, the Council of Elders absolves Orestes of his sins, but since Sartre depicts Orestes as remorseless, he cannot include that storyline in his play without having to change his storyline. Unlike in Aeschylus’ \"The Libation Bearers\", where revenge is one of the main themes throughout the play, Sartre’s Orestes does not kill Aegisthus and Clytemnestra for vengeance or because it was his destiny, instead it is for the sake of the people of Argos, so that they may be freed from their enslavement. Sartre wants to stress the fact that Orestes comes to that decision by himself, without the aid or direction of any outside forces, which contrasts with the Orestes in \"The Libation Bearers\", who relies heavily on the direction of the gods. Sartre even diminishes the character of Clytemnestra so that there is much less emphasis on matricide than there is in the version by Aeschylus. While Electra is guilt-stricken after the death of Clytemnestra, Orestes feels no remorse for killing his mother, so his relationship with her is not very important. Sartre’s representation of the Furies differs from that of Aeschylus in that, instead of attempting to avenge the crimes committed, they try to evoke guilt from those who committed them. Sartre does this to reiterate the importance of amenability; he wants to prove that remorse should only be felt if one believes the act committed is wrong. By acting in what he believes to be a righteous way and killing the king and queen, Orestes takes responsibility for his actions without feeling any remorse for them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996664", "title": "Darryl Worley", "text": "Darryl Worley\n\nDarryl Wade Worley (born October 31, 1964) is an American country music singer and songwriter. Signed to DreamWorks Records Nashville in 1999, Worley released four albums for the label: \"Hard Rain Don't Last\" (2000), \"I Miss My Friend\" (2002), \"Have You Forgotten?\" (2003), and \"Darryl Worley\" in 2004. After the label closed in 2005, he moved to 903 Music, an independent label owned by Neal McCoy, releasing \"Here and Now\" in 2006, shortly before that label's closure. His most recent studio release is 2009's \"Sounds Like Life\" via Stroudavarious Records, owned by James Stroud.\n\nWorley's six albums have produced 18 singles on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Songs charts, including three number ones: \"I Miss My Friend\", \"Have You Forgotten?\", and \"Awful, Beautiful Life\", from 2002, 2003 and 2004–2005, respectively. \"Have You Forgotten?\" spent seven weeks at number one. Nine other singles have reached the top 40.\n\nDarryl Wade Worley was born October 31, 1964, in Memphis, Tennessee, to Tommy and Bonnie Worley. His family moved to Pyburn, Tennessee, when he was young and he was raised there. His father was a Methodist preacher and his mother sang in the church choir. Worley attended the University of North Alabama and earned a degree in biology and chemistry. He worked in the chemical industry prior to pursuing country music, and wrote for FAME Studios in Muscle Shoals, Alabama. One of his first cuts as a songwriter was a track on Archer/Park's 1994 debut album.\n\nWorley was signed to DreamWorks Records in 1999. His debut single \"When You Need My Love\" followed in March 2000, the first of four single releases from his debut album \"Hard Rain Don't Last\". Following this song were \"A Good Day to Run\", \"Second Wind\" and \"Sideways\". Respectively, these singles peaked at No. 15, No. 12, No. 20 and No. 41 on the \"Billboard\" country charts. Production duties on the album were split between Frank Rogers and James Stroud. Also in 2000, George Jones charted with the single \"Sinners & Saints\", which Worley co-wrote.\n\nHis second album, \"I Miss My Friend\", followed in 2002. Its title track became his first Number One hit on the country charts that year, and was followed by the top 30 \"Family Tree\", written by Darrell Scott. This album was also his first Number One album on Top Country Albums.\n\nWorley had his biggest hit in 2003 with the 9/11 tribute ballad \"Have You Forgotten?\", the first release from his 2003 compilation album of the same name. It reached Number One in its fifth week on the charts, and held its position for seven weeks. The album included only four new tracks counting \"Have You Forgotten?\", as well as six each from his first and second albums. \"Tennessee River Run\", one of the carryovers from \"I Miss My Friend\", was issued as a single in 2003, peaking at No. 31. After it came his lowest-peaking single, \"I Will Hold My Ground\" at No. 57. \"Have You Forgotten?\" is also certified gold by the RIAA.\n\n2004 saw the release of Worley's third studio album, the self-titled \"Darryl Worley\". Its lead-off single, the Harley Allen co-write \"Awful, Beautiful Life\", became his third Number One hit in early 2005. Following this song was the Top Ten \"If Something Should Happen\", as well as \"I Love Her, She Hates Me\", which stopped at No. 56 due to the closure of DreamWorks Records in mid-2005.\n\nLater that same year, Worley signed with country singer Neal McCoy's vanity label 903 Music. His first release for 903 was \"Nothin' but a Love Thang\", which peaked at No. 35. This was the first of three singles from \"Here and Now\", his fourth studio album. Also released from it were the Top 20 \"I Just Came Back from a War\" and the No. 54 \"Livin' in the Here and Now\", the chart run of which was halted by the closure of 903 music in May 2007.\n\nWorley signed in 2008 to his third recording contract, this time with Stroudavarious Records, a label that Stroud founded in 2008. His sixteenth chart entry, \"Tequila on Ice\", was issued in the middle of that year, peaking at No. 44. Following it was \"Sounds Like Life to Me\", which has reached the Top 20. Both songs are included on his fifth release, \"Sounds Like Life\". The album's third and final single was \"Best of Both Worlds.\"\n\nWorley debuted the single \"Keep the Change\" in mid-2010. It was to be included on his sixth studio album, \"God & Country\", but the album went unreleased when his record label, Stroudavarious, ceased operation.\n\nWorley then moved to Tenacity Records in 2012 to release \"You Still Got It\".\n\nHe married his first wife, Beverly Irwin on May 12, 2001. Worley opened a restaurant, the Worleybird Cafe, in Savannah, TN, with his wife, Beverly (whom he divorced in July 2006) He also has a vegan restaurant in Dothan, Alabama, located at Country Crossing. (In August 2016 he told morning radio hosts Flip & Streeter in Panama City, FL, that he never owned a vegan restaurant in Dothan and joked that \"it should be treason\" that this claim was made since he is not a vegan) He also has two brothers, Tommy and Barry. Worley has been married to Kimberly Lee Perkins since December 2007 with whom he has a daughter, Savannah Gail born March 24, 2008. Worley also formerly owned a boutique furniture store in Enterprise, Alabama.\n\nIn addition, Worley posed nude (non-full-frontal) for the July 2007 issue of Playgirl magazine.\n\nEach year, Worley hosts a Charity Foundation Event, which is called the \"Tennessee River Run.\" Proceeds benefit the Darryl Worley Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that provides funds to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Le Bonheur Children's Medical Center and the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation.His foundation also funded and helps maintain the Darryl Worley Cancer Treatment Center in his hometown of Savannah, Tennessee and helps area families in need through a grant process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996678", "title": "Richard N. Cabela", "text": "Richard N. Cabela\n\nRichard Neil \"Dick\" Cabela (October 8, 1936 – February 17, 2014) was an American entrepreneur, best known as a co-founder of Cabela's, a leading outfitter of outdoor sporting and recreational goods. He stated that his business was inspired by his bout with poliomyelitis and a deep love of hunting and fishing. He was also described as \"a vocal supporter of the National Rifle Association\" and a hunter who decorated his home with taxidermic wildlife.\n\nBorn in Chappell, Nebraska, Cabela and his father went to Chicago to purchase items for the family furniture store back home. Initially he placed ads in a local newspaper for \"12 hand tied flies for $1\". When the items did not sell locally, he advertised them in national newspapers and magazines such as \"Sports Afield\". He and wife, Mary, built a customer base and created a small mimeographed catalog to offer more fishing gear.\nFrom 1961, the Cabelas, Dick, his wife Mary, and his brother James, created a catalog business with annual revenues of over US$3 billion, featuring stores in Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin, and shipping goods and 120 million catalogs each year to all 50 states and many foreign nations. Additionally, the business inspired the creation of a financial institution and credit card issuer called the Worlds Foremost Bank.\n\nHe died on February 17, 2014 at his home in Sidney, Nebraska at age 77.\n\nCabela was the recipient of several awards over the course of his career. Among the awards Cabela received were the \"C.J. McElroy\" award in 2001 from the Safari Club International and the \"Golden Bullseye Pioneer\" award from NRA Publications in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1996691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996691", "title": "Dennis Kozlowski", "text": "Dennis Kozlowski\n\nLeo Dennis Kozlowski (born November 16, 1946) is a former CEO of Tyco International, convicted in 2005 of crimes related to his receipt of $81 million in unauthorized bonuses, the purchase of art for $14.725 million and the payment by Tyco of a $20 million investment banking fee to Frank Walsh, a former Tyco director. He served more than six years at the Mid-State Correctional Facility in Marcy, New York before being transferred to the Lincoln Correctional Facility in New York City, from which he was granted conditional release on January 17, 2014. Separately, Tyco filed suit against Kozlowski and prevailed, with the court finding that the $500 million in compensation and benefits he received during his time of disloyalty, between 1997 and 2002, were forfeit back to the company under New York’s \"faithless servant\" doctrine.\n\nKozlowski was born in Newark, New Jersey. His mother, Agnes (née Kozell), worked for the Newark Police Department and as a school crossing guard, and his father, Leo Kelly Kozlowski, worked for the Public Service Transport. His parents were second-generation Jewish Polish-Americans. Kozlowski attended Seton Hall University, a Catholic university.\n\nKozlowski joined Tyco in 1975, becoming CEO in 1992. With Kozlowski at the helm, Tyco massively expanded during the late 1990s. The company consistently beat Wall Street's expectations and through a series of strategic mergers and acquisitions, ushered in a new era of mega-conglomerates. Kozlowski left Tyco in 2002, amid a controversy in regard to his compensation package.\n\nKozlowski has been tried twice. The first attempt was a ruled mistrial when one of the jurors was threatened by the public after being reported to have made an OK sign towards Kozlowski's lawyers. Kozlowski testified on his own behalf during the second trial, stating that his pay package was \"confusing\" and \"almost embarrassingly big,\" but that he never committed a crime as the company's top executive.\n\nAlong with former Tyco chief financial officer Mark Swartz, Kozlowski was convicted on June 17, 2005 of crimes related to his receipt of $81 million in purportedly unauthorized bonuses, the purchase of art for $14.725 million and the payment by Tyco of a $20 million investment banking fee to Frank Walsh, a former Tyco director. On September 19, 2005 he was sentenced by Judge Michael Obus of the Manhattan Supreme Court to serve from eight years and four months to twenty-five years in prison for his role in the scandal. In addition, Kozlowski and Swartz were ordered to pay a total of $134 million in restitution. Koslowski was further fined $70 million, while Swartz was fined $35 million. Both were convicted on 22 counts of grand larceny, falsifying business records, securities fraud and conspiracy.\n\nHis aggregate minimum sentence was set at 8 years and 4 months, and his aggregate maximum sentence was 25 years; his conditional release date was set for May 17, 2022, and his maximum expiration date was September 17, 2030. In April 2012, Kozlowski was denied parole. His next parole eligibility date, and his parole hearing merit release appearance, were then set for January 17, 2014. On January 17, 2014, he was granted conditional release from the Lincoln Correctional Facility in New York City.\n\nKozlowski, prior to trial, asserted his innocence by stating, \"I am absolutely not guilty of the charges. There was no criminal intent here. Nothing was hidden. There were no shredded documents. All the information the prosecutors got was directly off the books and records of the company.\" After his conviction, but before his appeal was complete, he again denied his guilt. \"I was a guy sitting in a courtroom making $100 million a year [a]nd I think a juror sitting there just would have to say, 'All that money? He must have done something wrong.' I think it's as simple as that.\"\n\nNevertheless, Kozlowski admitted his culpability for the crimes at his parole hearing. “It was greed, pure and simple,” the 67-year-old former executive told a New York State parole panel at a December 3 video conference hearing. “I feel horrible ... I can’t say how sorry I am and how deeply I regret my actions.” \n\nKozlowski's trial was criticized by civil rights lawyer Dan Ackman, who said:\n\nIt's fair to say that Kozlowski and Swartz abused many corporate prerogatives and that they invented new ones just so they could abuse them. They acted like pigs, as a lot of CEOs act like pigs. Still, the larceny charges at the heart of the case did not depend on whether the defendants took the money—they did—but whether they were authorized to take it. Questions of authority are, by nature, legal questions, not questions for jurors.\n\nTyco filed against Kozlowski, asserting that the $500 million in compensation and benefits he received during his time of disloyalty, between 1997 and 2002, were forfeit under New York’s \"faithless servant\" doctrine. Southern District of New York Judge Thomas Griesa concluded in 2010 that under the faithless servant doctrine, Kozlowski must forfeit all compensation and benefits he earned during his period of disloyalty.\n\nKozlowski has been married three times, and has grandchildren.\nKozlowski became notorious for his extravagant lifestyle, supported by the booming stock market of the late 1990s and early 2000s; allegedly, he had Tyco pay for his $30 million New York City apartment which included $6,000 shower curtains and $15,000 \"dog umbrella stands\".\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", Kozlowski also purchased several acres in the private gated community, \"The Sanctuary\", in Boca Raton, Florida, while he was CEO at Tyco International. He also purchased a multimillion-dollar oceanfront estate on the island of Nantucket.\n\nTyco paid $1 million (half of the $2 million bill) for the 40th birthday party of Kozlowski's second wife, Karen Mayo Kozlowski. The extravagant party, held on the Italian island of Sardinia, featured an ice sculpture of Michelangelo's \"David\" urinating Stolichnaya vodka and a private concert by Jimmy Buffett. In a camcorder video, Dennis Kozlowski states that this party will bring out a Tyco core competency – the ability to party hard. Subsequently, this shareholder meeting/birthday party became known as the Tyco Roman Orgy.\n\nOn July 31, 2006, Karen Kozlowski filed for divorce in Palm Beach County, Florida. No specific reasons were cited, but the motion asked the court to equitably distribute the couple's assets and liabilities and asked that gifts Karen received be declared marital property. She also sought a lien on the couple's Boca Raton mansion. The motion also requested alimony.\n\nKozlowski served as Head of the Board at Berwick Academy in South Berwick, Maine for many years, and served on the Middlebury College Board of Trustees in the 1990s.\n\nDennis Kozlowski now lives between NYC, Florida and Nantucket and runs several businesses with his third wife, Kimberly. Dennis is the Chairman of the Board of the Fortune Society and Kimberly is the President of the Womens Prison Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996695", "title": "You're Beautiful", "text": "You're Beautiful\n\n\"You're Beautiful\" is a song by English singer-songwriter James Blunt. It was written by Blunt, Sacha Skarbek and Amanda Ghost for Blunt's debut album, \"Back to Bedlam\" (2004). It was released as the second single from the album in 2005.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Australia, the song reached number one and number two respectively. When released as the debut single from \"Back to Bedlam\" in Canada and the United States, it reached number one on both charts and received widespread airplay. In 2006, the song won an Ivor Novello Award for airplay. The song has sold 625,000 copies in the United Kingdom as stated by the Official Charts Company, and by October 2012 over three million in the United States. It remains Blunt's biggest hit single in the United States to date, and his only one to reach the top 40 of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. In 2012, a new version of the single was issued in Japan. The Q;indivi+ Remix, featuring Japanese performer Keri, was issued on 28 March 2012.\n\nNewspapers have claimed that \"You're Beautiful\" is about a former girlfriend of Blunt, Dixie Chassay, casting assistant for the \"Harry Potter\" films, although Blunt refuses to confirm nor deny this. On 8 March 2006 on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", Blunt said of the song, \"It's kind of miserable. It was about seeing my ex-girlfriend on the Underground in London with her new man, who I didn't know existed. She and I caught eyes and lived a lifetime in that moment, but didn't do anything about it and haven't seen each other since.\" According to Blunt, he wrote the lyrics of the song at home in two minutes after meeting her, and then finished the song with Sacha Skarbek in Los Angeles, and with Amanda Ghost also credited as a co-writer. Blunt said of the song: \"It's always been portrayed as romantic, but it’s actually a bit creepy. It’s about a guy (me) who’s high and stalking someone else’s girlfriend on the subway. And then the stalker kills himself.\" In an interview with HitQuarters, co-writer Sacha Skarbek said that Blunt brought the title, verses and the approach of the chorus to a songwriting session. Skarbek's contribution largely focused on the music aspect to the track, contributing chord ideas for the verses, honing the melodies, and making sure the song stuck to, \"a couple of key hooks rather than making it too complicated\".\n\nSeveral versions of the song exist. One lyrical version has an explicit word in it (\"\"She could see from my face that I was fucking high\"\") which was released on \"Back to Bedlam\" and most of the \"You're Beautiful\" singles. The radio edit of the song replaces the explicit lyric, changing it to \"\"She could see from my face that I was flying high\"\". Acoustic, live and DVD versions have also been released. However, because of the word in question, the album was given a Parental Advisory sticker. When asked about the song, Blunt responded, \"It's probably one of the least meaningful songs on the album and by no means people's favourite. The album is like a book covering various aspects of life in a specific order.\"\n\nIn the beginning of the song, Blunt sings the first line twice (\"\"My life is brilliant\"\"). The mistimed delivery was left in the final recording, but omitted in most radio versions. This is parodied in \"Weird Al\" Yankovic's song \"You're Pitiful\": After the initial start, he says \"What, was I too early? Oh, sorry. Should I...Do you wanna start over? Or, keep going? Okay. Now? Now?\" and then begins the song again.\n\nThe music video for \"You're Beautiful\" was directed by Brandon Smith. At least one writer's interpretation is that it shows Blunt taking his own life, perhaps following a Japanese tradition of removing one's shoes and contents of clothing prior to jumping from a great height. However, the director of the video states in a \"making-of\" piece of footage that \"[T]he idea [of the video] is built around the last line, where he says, 'I'll never be with you', and that idea of completely forgetting about something, of getting rid of that emotion, and moving on, and I think that the video is a sort of visual manifestation of that emotion.\"\n\nBlunt removes the upper portion of his clothing in a cold, bare, snowy setting and places all of his personal belongings on the ground. While doing this, seagulls circle overhead like buzzards. At the end of the video, he jumps off a cliff and falls into the water while he sings the lyrics: \"But it's time to face the truth, I will never be with you\". According to Blunt, he had to jump twice and suffered a split lip in the jumps. The video was filmed in Mallorca, Spain.\n\nThe video has been parodied in a \"Dead Ringers\" spoof, with Jon Culshaw impersonating Blunt, singing the song with different lyrics where he explains how he can be cool.\n\nAbout.com gave the song four and a half stars out of five, saying \"The simple power of Blunt's songwriting is effective at conveying the pain of realizing he will never be with the object of his affections.\"\n\n\"You're Beautiful\" was ranked number seven in a poll conducted by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine to identify the 10 most annoying songs. VH1 ranked it number 95 on its list of the 100 Greatest Songs of the '00s. In October 2014, Blunt stated it had become so ubiquitous that it was \"force-fed down people's throats\". It has been named as one of the worst songs ever recorded, despite its positive critical reviews.\n\n\"You're Beautiful\" is Blunt's most successful single release to date. It was also his first successful single, and reached number one in ten countries across the world, including the United Kingdom, the United States, Spain, Mexico, Canada, and the Netherlands. The song peaked within the top five in New Zealand, number four, Australia, number two, France, and Germany. Released on 18 May 2005, it entered at number twelve on 5 June and reached number one six weeks later where it remained for five consecutive weeks. The highest position \"You're Beautiful\" reached in Australia was number two, where it stayed for two consecutive weeks.\n\nIn November 2005, \"You're Beautiful\" was released in North America where it achieved widespread success. In Canada, it ascended to number one (where it remained for four consecutive weeks) 22 weeks following its debut on the BDS Airplay chart. In the United States, it debuted at number 88 before reaching number one 17 weeks later. It replaced Beyoncé's \"Check on It\" and itself was replaced by Ne-Yo's \"So Sick\". The song became the first non-urban or \"American Idol\" song to reach the top of the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 since Nickelback's \"How You Remind Me\" in 2001. However, \"Hollaback Girl\" by Gwen Stefani has also been credited for that accomplishment, but due to its hip-hop based influences, it's been disputed. This also became the first single by a British artist to reach number one since Elton John's \"Candle in the Wind 1997\" (1997). It achieved success on the \"Billboard\" Pop 100, Hot Digital Songs, Adult Contemporary, and Adult Top 40 formats. It has been certified double platinum by the RIAA for digital and platinum for mastertone. It has sold over three million in the United States.\n\nThe song received three nominations at the 2007 Grammy Awards: Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Male Pop Vocal Performance.\n\nThe song won the BMI Internet Award for most plays on BMI-licensed websites for 2007 and was the first song to receive this honor at BMI’s London Awards.\n\nThe single was released on four official physical formats. CD1 includes an exclusive acoustic recording of \"Fall at Your Feet\", a cover taken from the BBC Radio 1 live lounge sessions. CD2 includes an exclusive acoustic version of \"High\", plus the video for \"You're Beautiful\" and \"Making-Of\" footage. The 7\" vinyl includes an exclusive acoustic version of \"So Long, Jimmy\". The fourth physical format was an exclusive version of CD1, only available at HMV, which includes an additional third track, in the form of an acoustic version of \"You're Beautiful\". This version was also sold in Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996697", "title": "HNoMS Uredd (P41)", "text": "HNoMS Uredd (P41)\n\nHMS \"P41 was a Royal Navy U-class submarine built by Vickers-Armstrong. She was transferred to the exiled Royal Norwegian Navy before completion and renamed HNoMS \"Uredd. She and one of the B-class in 1940 have so far been the only Norwegian submarine to have been sunk.\n\nOrdered on 11 March 1940, the submarine was laid down at the Vickers-Armstrongs shipyard in Barrow-in-Furness on 15 October 1940, and launched on 24 August 1941.\n\nShe was transferred to Norwegian command on 7 December 1941. She served mostly as a patrol craft off the coast of Nazi-occupied Norway, eventually completing a total of seven successful missions for the Royal Norwegian Navy, sinking several German ships.\n\nIn February 1943 she was assigned, under the command of Rolf Q. Røren, to drop off six \"Kompani Linge\" soldiers at Bodø as part of Operation Seagull - and then proceed to the island of Senja to pick up two French submariners who had been left behind by the .\n\nContact with \"Uredd\" was lost and she was believed to have been sunk in a German minefield on 10 February. The Royal Norwegian Navy officially declared her lost on 20 February 1943, the Royal Navy on 28 February.\n\nIn 1985, discovered the wreckage of the \"Uredd\" southwest of Fugløyvær and confirmed that she had hit a German minefield laid by the German minelayer - killing 34 crew and six soldiers. The following year, King Olav V unveiled a memorial to those lost aboard the \"Uredd\", located in Grensen. The wreck is officially a war grave.\n\nAs HNoMS \"Uredd\" was operating with the Royal Navy's 9th Submarine Flotilla based at Dundee in Scotland, her crew are all commemorated on Dundee International Submarine Memorial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996699", "title": "Inés Gaviria", "text": "Inés Gaviria\n\nInés Gaviria (born March 15, 1979) is a Colombian singer-songwriter based in Miami, Florida. Her first album with the Respek Label, and distributed by Universal Records, was released in June 2005. She was nominated for the 2006 Latin Grammy Awards.\n\nA Latin Grammy Award is an accolade by the Latin Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences to recognize outstanding achievement in the music industry.\n"}
{"id": "1996706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996706", "title": "Horace Archambeault", "text": "Horace Archambeault\n\nSir Horace Archambeault (March 6, 1857 – August 25, 1918) was a politician and judge in the Canadian provinceof Quebec.\n\nHe was born in L'Assomption, Quebec in 1857, the son of Louis Archambeault. In 1888, Archambeault replaced his father as representative for the division of Repentigny in the Legislative Council of Quebec. He was to hold this position until 1908, when he was appointed a judge for the Quebec Court of King's Bench. In 1911 he succeeded Sir Louis-Amable Jetté as chief justice of that court.\n\nHe died at Trois-Pistoles in 1918.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996707", "title": "Please Please Me (song)", "text": "Please Please Me (song)\n\n\"Please Please Me\" is a song released by the English rock band the Beatles. It was their second single in the United Kingdom, and their first in the United States. It is also the title track of their first LP, which was recorded to capitalise on the success of the single. It was originally a John Lennon composition (credited to Lennon–McCartney), although its ultimate form was significantly influenced by producer George Martin. John Lennon later stated: \"Please Please Me is my song completely. It was my attempt at writing a Roy Orbison song, would you believe it? I wrote it in the bedroom in my house at Menlove Avenue, which was my auntie's place\".\n\nThe single was released in the UK on 11 January 1963 and reached No. 1 on the \"New Musical Express\" and \"Melody Maker\" charts. However, it only reached No. 2 on the \"Record Retailer\" chart, which subsequently evolved into the UK Singles Chart. Because of this, it was not included on the multi-million selling Beatles compilation, \"1\".\n\nThe single, as initially released with \"Ask Me Why\" on the B-side, failed to make much impact in the US in February 1963, but when re-released there on 3 January 1964 (this time with \"From Me to You\" on the B-side), it reached No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The song was also re-released on 6 December 1982 by Parlophone in the UK.\n\nThe Beatles had accomplished a modest debut success with \"Love Me Do\", but outside of Liverpool and Hamburg they were still practically unknown. Part of the problem was that the group were committed to begin what was to be their final Hamburg season just as \"Love Me Do\" entered the British charts and so were unable to actively promote it on their home soil. Nonetheless, their producer, George Martin, felt it was a promising start and decided to go ahead with a second single.\n\n\"Please Please Me\" has a diverse history. George Martin has stated that the original version of this song was \"rather dreary\", was too slow and consequently had little prospect of being the big hit the band were looking for. Martin said, \"I was still thinking that we should release their [earlier] recording of 'How Do You Do It?'\", a previously taped Mitch Murray composition that Martin insisted the Beatles record which he had seriously considered as an alternative debut single instead of \"Love Me Do\". The group replied that they were only interested in recording their own material. McCartney said: \"It was symptomatic of our group that we turned down 'How Do You Do It?'.\" Ringo Starr commented: \"I remember us all being ready to stand up for the principle of, 'We have written these songs and we want to do them'\". George Martin was ultimately sympathetic to their appeals, but said later: \"[I] would still have issued \"How Do You Do It?\" had they not persuaded me to listen to another version of \"Please Please Me\".\n\nLennon first conceived \"Please Please Me\" as a bluesy, slow tempo song. Lennon recalled: \"I remember the day I wrote it, I heard Roy Orbison doing 'Only the Lonely', or something. And I was also always intrigued by the words to a Bing Crosby song that went, 'Please lend a little ear to my pleas'. The double use of the word 'please'. So it was a combination of Roy Orbison and Bing Crosby\". Originally it was vocally sparse, did not contain any harmonies or responses, nor did it have the scaled harmonica intro.\n\nGeorge Martin claimed he first heard it at the \"Love Me Do\" re-make session on 11 September. Ringo Starr in \"Anthology\" stated: \"On my first visit in September we just ran through some tracks for George Martin. We even did 'Please Please Me'. I remember that, because while we were recording it I was playing the bass drum with a maraca in one hand and a tambourine in the other.\" John Lennon in \"Anthology\" stated: \"We'd had a top 30 entry with 'Love Me Do' and we really thought we were on top of the world. Then came 'Please Please Me'—and wham! We tried to make it as simple as possible. Some of the stuff we've written in the past has been a bit way-out, but we aimed this one straight at the hit parade... We almost abandoned it as the B-side of 'Love Me Do'. We changed our minds only because we were so tired the night we did Love Me Do. We'd been going over it a few times and when we came to the question of the flipside, we intended using 'Please Please Me'. Our recording manager, George Martin, thought our arrangement was fussy, so we tried to make it simpler. We were getting very tired, though, and we just couldn't seem to get it right. We are conscientious about our work and we don't like to rush things.\"\n\nIn the opinion of George Martin, \"At that stage 'Please Please Me' was a very dreary song. It was like a Roy Orbison number, very slow, bluesy vocals. It was obvious to me that it badly needed pepping up. I told them to bring it in next time and we'd have another go at it.\" He asked the Beatles to consider making major changes to it, including increasing its tempo. By the time it was brought back into the studio on 26 November 1962, its arrangement had been radically altered, and it took 18 takes to record what George Martin immediately predicted would be their first major hit. Paul McCartney in \"Anthology\" stated: \"We sang it and George Martin said, 'Can we change the tempo?' We said, 'What's that?' He said, 'Make it a bit faster. Let me try it.' And he did. We thought, 'Oh, that's all right, yes.' Actually, we were a bit embarrassed that he had found a better tempo than we had.\"\n\nIf the session notes and date attribution in the 1995 compilation \"The Beatles Anthology 1\" are correct, a faster-tempo version sans harmonica was recorded at Abbey Road on 11 September, the only session in which session drummer Andy White was present. The up-tempo track, No. 24 on \"Anthology 1\", was believed to have been wiped until its rediscovery in 1994 during the \"Anthology\" production, with \"Anthology notes\" seeming to indicate that it features drummer Andy White rather than Ringo Starr. The point is not addressed in the Mark Lewisohn-researched \"Anthology\" notes, although author Lewisohn's 1988 \"The Beatles Recording Sessions\" quotes session engineer Ron Richards as saying, \"Ringo didn't play drums at all that evening.\" However, recording technician Geoff Emerick later wrote that, following White's departure, he witnessed Beatles roadie Mal Evans set up Starr's kit and the group record \"Please Please Me\" with Starr on drums. The unexpected rediscovery of the 11 September up-tempo recording raises the questions of when the Orbison-inspired slow version was played for Martin and whether a tape of that version might also still exist in the Abbey Road vaults, inasmuch as Lewisohn's 1988 quote from Martin \"We didn't keep outtakes then [1962]\" was later contradicted. In a 2012 BBC interview, Andy White claimed that the drumming on the hit single was his:\nWhite, however, was not at the studio for the final recording on 26 November and was only hired for the 11 September session. As recorded on 26 November, Lennon's harmonica playing features prominently and, similar to other early Beatles' compositions such as \"Love Me Do\" and \"From Me to You\", opens the song. McCartney and Lennon initially share the vocals with McCartney holding a high note while Lennon drops down through the scale, a ploy they learned from the Everly Brothers UK hit song \"Cathy's Clown\" (April 1960). McCartney said: \"I did the trick of remaining on the high note while the melody cascaded down from it\". Ringo Starr asserts himself, exorcising any lingering doubts from the \"Love Me Do\" sessions regarding his ability. Where \"Love Me Do\" had been arguably parochial, relying to a large extent on their existing home fans for support \"Please Please Me\" would be groundbreaking, especially as the Beatles were now back in the UK and able to appear on influential national television shows such as \"Thank Your Lucky Stars\".\n\nAccording to Ray Coleman's biography, \"Brian Epstein: The Man Who Made the Beatles\", Epstein had been dissatisfied with EMI's promotional efforts for \"Love Me Do\" (published by EMI's subsidiary Ardmore & Beechwood) and asked George Martin if he could suggest a publisher who would push the single more effectively. Martin suggested three candidates, one of which was Dick James. Epstein made an appointment to meet with him for 11 a.m. the following day, as well as an appointment with another EMI subsidiary at 10 a.m. Arriving on time for the first meeting, Epstein was informed that the executive he was due to meet had not arrived yet. Still waiting at 10.25, he decided that he was not prepared to do business with an organisation that could not keep a scheduled appointment, and left.\n\nArriving at James' office 20 minutes early, he apologised to the receptionist and said he was happy to wait until the appointed time. The receptionist nevertheless phoned James, who promptly came out of his office, welcomed Epstein and quickly got down to business. Epstein played the single and James remarked that it was a number one record. Epstein replied that if James could achieve that then he would be prepared to offer him a long-term publishing deal. James then phoned Philip Jones, producer of ITV television show \"Thank Your Lucky Stars\", played the song down the telephone to him and gained The Beatles a slot on the next edition of the programme. The two then shook hands on a deal that would make them, and the Beatles, extremely wealthy.\n\nThe new single was released in the UK on 11 January 1963 during one of the worst winters in British history and on 19 January most of the population were snowed-in at home watching the Beatles perform the song on the Saturday night TV show, \"Thank Your Lucky Stars\". The national exposure of the song, as well as the unusual appearance and hair style of the group, brought the band a lot of attention and they were booked by promoter Arthur Howes for a series of national tours. The first tour was as a support band to Helen Shapiro in February, then Tommy Roe and Chris Montez in March, and Roy Orbison in May and, during breaks in the touring schedule, the Beatles performed the song on a number of BBC national radio programmes. All of these factors, along with extensive press coverage, propelled the single to the top of most of the British charts and the Beatles, much to their embarrassment, were moved to the top of the bill on the Tommy Roe and Roy Orbison tours.\n\nCapitol Records, EMI's United States label, was offered the right to release \"Please Please Me\" in the US, but turned it down. Instead, it was placed with Transglobal, an EMI affiliate that worked to place foreign masters with US record labels. It was told to find an American outlet for the record as quickly as possible, in order to appease Martin and Beatles manager Brian Epstein. \"Please Please Me\" was then offered to Atlantic, which also rejected it. Finally, Vee-Jay, which had released the top-five hit \"I Remember You\" by Frank Ifield in 1962 (another record that Capitol had turned down), was offered the right to issue \"Please Please Me\" in the States, and chose to do so. The exact date of the US issue was lost for decades, but research published in 2004 showed that the single, \"Please Please Me\"/\"Ask Me Why\", was released by Vee-Jay on 7 February 1963, coincidentally exactly one year before the Beatles' plane landed in New York City on their first visit as a band to America.\n\nDick Biondi, a disc jockey on WLS in Chicago and a friend of Vee-Jay executive Ewart Abner, played the song on the radio from February 1963, perhaps as early as 8 February 1963, thus becoming the first DJ to play a Beatles record in the US. Art Roberts, legendary DJ and music director at the time, tells how the record came to be played first at the station:\n\nOn WLS, \"Please Please Me\" peaked at No. 35 on 15 March on the second of its two weeks on the \"Silver Dollar Survey\", in addition to its two airplay weeks. However, the song did not chart on any other major national American survey until 1964.\n\nThe first pressings of the Vee-Jay single, which was assigned the catalog number 498, featured a typographical error: the band's name was spelled \"The Beattles\" with two \"t\"s. WLS used this spelling on its Silver Dollar Surveys in 1963. Later copies of the single corrected this. Also, the composers on the Vee-Jay edition were credited on both sides as \"J. Lennon-P. McCartney\", unlike on the UK Parlophone edition (which listed the names in the reverse order). However, with the exception of Chicago, the record was a failure as it sold approximately 7,310 copies. Today, copies of Vee-Jay 498—whether with the incorrect or correct spelling of the Beatles on the label—are valuable collector's items.\n\nIn the wake of the rush-release of \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" in the United States, Vee-Jay reissued \"Please Please Me\" on or about 3 January 1964, the day that film footage of the Beatles appeared on a prime time episode of The Jack Paar Program on NBC Television. Playing it safe, the label chose to put \"From Me to You\" on the B-side, as Del Shannon's version had been a minor hit in 1963. The new single was issued with the catalog number 581.\n\nThis time, \"Please Please Me\" was a massive hit, eventually peaking at No. 3 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart for the week ending 14 March 1964, trailing only \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" and \"She Loves You\". It was one of the songs that the top five on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 of 4 April comprised when the Beatles held all of the top five spots.\n\nBecause Vee-Jay wanted to get as many copies of the record pressed as quickly as possible, it did not insist on uniformity from one pressing plant to another. As a result, a dizzying number of label variations exist. Some of these added a comma to the song title, rendering it as \"Please, Please Me\". Additionally, some copies of the record were issued with a picture sleeve. Early promotional copies had a special sleeve proclaiming \"Please Please Me\" as \"The Record That Started Beatlemania\". The text on the sleeve noted that the Beatles had just appeared on Paar's program and were scheduled to appear on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in February. This sleeve is considered to be extremely rare.\n\nAt least 1.1 million copies of the reissue were sold. If Vee-Jay had been a member of the RIAA, the single would have been certified gold.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" ranked the song at No. 184 on its list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time, placing it 15th among Beatles songs on that list.\n\n\"Please Please Me\" was chosen for The Beatles' first national UK television appearance, on \"Thank Your Lucky Stars\" on 19 January 1963.\n\nPersonnel per Ian MacDonald:\nEngineered by Norman Smith\n\n"}
{"id": "1996713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996713", "title": "Dianne Yerbury", "text": "Dianne Yerbury\n\nProfessor Emerita Dianne Yerbury AO (born 25 March 1941) is an Australian university administrator and company director. She was the Vice-Chancellor of Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia from 1987 to 2005.\n\nShe was Australia's first female Vice-Chancellor, and was also the longest serving Vice-Chancellor of Macquarie University. In 1987 she was also made Professor Emerita at the University of New South Wales.\n\nShe was named the 2002 Telstra New South Wales Business Woman of the Year. From 2003-04 she was vice-president, and from 2004-05 president, of the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee.\n\nIn 2006, it was announced that Professor Yerbury would remain at Macquarie University in the role of Arts and Culture Ambassador and also as International Ambassador for the University. Following a long-running dispute with her successor Steven Schwartz over expenses, occupation of the vice-chancellorial residence and ownership of several million dollars' worth of art works, Yerbury left Macquarie University in February 2007.\n\nProfessor Yerbury received an apology from the Fairfax Press:\n\nAPOLOGY TO DI YERBURY, AO\n\nFrom February 8, 2007, the Herald published a number of articles in print and online, including a news blog, concerning Professor Di Yerbury who had served as Vice-Chancellor of Macquarie University for more than 19 years to February 2006.\nProfessor Yerbury has alleged that the articles depicted her as dishonestly commingling her private art collection with the University's own art collection and failing honestly to account for her use of the University's credit card.\nThe Herald at no time intended to convey any such allegations against Professor Yerbury.\nIf readers understood the articles as in any way reflecting upon her honesty and probity, the Herald withdraws those allegations and apologises for the hurt to Professor Yerbury and any damage to her reputation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996717", "title": "List of environmental dates", "text": "List of environmental dates\n\nThis is a list of environmental dates. These dates are designated for creating awareness of environmental issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996720", "title": "John Wilkinson (poet)", "text": "John Wilkinson (poet)\n\nJohn Lawton Wilkinson (born 1953) is a contemporary English poet.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1975, he studied English at Jesus College, Cambridge, United Kingdom, where he founded, with Charlie Bulbeck and Charles Lambert, the Blue Room, a society devoted to the propagation of poetry and the other fine arts.\n\nHis first publication, \"Of Western Limit\" (a collaboration with Charles Lambert), appeared in 1974, the year in which Wilkinson won the Chancellor's Medal for Poetry. He has published seven major collections of verse as well as critical articles on British and American poetry, some of which were collected in \"The Lyric Touch\" (2007).\n\nHis most recent collections are \"Reckitt's Blue\" (2013), \"Down to Earth\" (2008), \"Lake Shore Drive\" (2006), \"Contrivances\" (2003) and \"Effigies against the Light\" (2001); a chapbook titled \"Iphigenia\" appeared in 2004, and his 1986 collection, \"Proud Flesh\", was re-issued in 2005 with an introduction by Drew Milne. In 1992, his work \"Hid Lip\" appeared alongside works by Stephen Rodefer and Rod Mengham in a volume called \"Writing Out of Character\", published by Street Editions. \"Schedule of Unrest: Selected Poems\" is due to appear in 2014.\n\nJohn Wilkinson has held a Frank Knox Fellowship at Harvard University, and was a Fulbright Distinguished Scholar in 2003/04 at the Nathan S. Kline Institute. From 2007/08 he was Carl H. Pforzheimer Fellow at the National Humanities Center in North Carolina. From 2005-2010 he was Writer in Residence and thereafter Research Professor in the Department of English at the University of Notre Dame. In 2010 he moved to the University of Chicago as Professor of Practice of the Arts. He is married to the literary critic Maud Ellmann.\n"}
{"id": "1996726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996726", "title": "Into the West (miniseries)", "text": "Into the West (miniseries)\n\nInto the West is a 2005 miniseries produced by Steven Spielberg and DreamWorks, with six two-hour episodes (including commercials). The series was first broadcast in the U.S. on Turner Network Television (TNT) on six Fridays starting on June 10, 2005. It was also shown in the UK on BBC2 and BBC HD from November 4, 2006, and in Canada on CBC Television. The series also aired in the U.S. on AMC during the summer (June/July) and fall (autumn, September/October) of 2012.\n\nThe miniseries begins in the 1820s and is told mainly through the third person narration of Jacob Wheeler (Matthew Settle) and Loved By the Buffalo (Joseph M. Marshall III), although episodes outside the direct observation of both protagonists are also shown. The plot follows the story of two families, one white American, one Native American, as their lives become mingled through the momentous events of American expansion. The story intertwines real and fictional characters and events spanning the period of expansion of the United States in the American West, from 1825 to 1890.\n\nThe show has a large cast, with about 250 speaking parts. The series features well-known performers including Josh Brolin, Gary Busey, Michael Spears, Tonantzin Carmelo, Skeet Ulrich, Garrett Wang, Steve Reevis, Rachael Leigh Cook, Wes Studi, Irene Bedard, Alan Tudyk, Christian Kane, Russell Means, Jay Tavare, Keri Russell, Graham Greene, Sean Astin, Beau Bridges, Judge Reinhold, Zahn McClarnon, Tom Berenger, Gil Birmingham, David Paymer, Raoul Trujillo, Eric Schweig, Lance Henriksen, Simon R. Baker, Tyler Christopher, Tatanka Means, Gordon Tootoosis, Sheila Tousey, and Will Patton.\n\nIt was filmed in Drumheller, Alberta and Santa Fe, New Mexico.\n\nGrowling Bear (Gordon Tootoosis), an elderly Lakota medicine man, has an apocalyptic vision that the buffalo his people rely upon will soon vanish from the prairie and the Lakota will live in square houses. His vision is controversial and his apprentice, Soaring Eagle (Gerald Auger), convinces most of the people to disregard Growling Bear's dark vision. A young boy named White Feather (Chevez Ezaneh) overhears and seeks out the now discredited Growling Bear to learn more about his vision. Before he dies, Growling Bear gives White Feather a necklace symbolizing the Lakota medicine wheel. This necklace is passed on to various characters through the miniseries.\n\nLater, during a buffalo jump hunt led by White Feather's older brothers Running Fox (Matthew Strongeagle) and Dog Star (Pony Boy Osuniga), many people from the village are killed during the stampede, but White Feather is miraculously spared when the spirit of deceased Growling Bear appears to protect him. The tribe renames him Loved by the Buffalo and begin to regard him as a holy man healing people by taking their pain upon himself. This causes Soaring Eagle to become jealous and he tries to undermine Loved by the Buffalo (Simon Baker) by blaming him for an outbreak of pox and then leaving him for dead. Growling Bear appears to Loved by the Buffalo again, teaching him a song to cure the outbreak.\n\nLoved by the Buffalo's sister, Thunder Heart Woman (Sarah Weston), is married off to a white trapper, Thomas Lebeck (Scott Heindl). Loved by the Buffalo gives Thunder Heart Woman the wooden medicine wheel necklace as a parting gift. Dog Star (Michael Spears) and Running Fox (Zahn McClarnon) marry two sisters and begin families, but Loved by the Buffalo realizes that his destiny lies on a different path.\n\nAt about the same time, a young wheelwright named Jacob Wheeler (Matthew Settle) is growing discontented with his settled life in the fictional Wheelerton, Virginia, where he and his brothers work as wheelwrights for his grandfather Abraham (Ken Pogue), a veteran of the Battle of Yorktown. When a mountain man named James Fletcher (Will Patton) passes through, he tells Jacob of the wonders of the western frontier and that he will be joining an expedition to the Pacific Ocean led by the famous Jedediah Smith (Josh Brolin) leaving from St. Louis, Jacob decides to leave his family and head west. He convinces his brother Nathan (Alan Tudyk), to come west with him, but another brother, Jethro (Skeet Ulrich), cannot bring himself to leave his home and stays behind.\n\nOnce the brothers reach St. Louis, Missouri, they find Fletcher, who rebuffs them. Dejected, Nathan goes into a saloon to drink and gamble, winning a deed to a land claim in the Mexican province of Tejas. Nathan tries to convince Jacob to come with him to Tejas, but Jacob has become determined to become a mountain man and travel to the West with Jedediah Smith. The brothers part company and Jacob heads toward the Rocky Mountains.\n\nJacob catches up with Fletcher and trapping party captain Jedediah Smith who once again rebuffs him, but he convinces them to take him in. Jacob stitches Smith's scalp after a bear attack and prefers Smith's company rather than fraternizing with a Mojave tribe they trade with for horses in the Sierra Nevadas. Eventually he becomes a trusted member of the party. Jacob accompanies Smith's party to California Fred, where they are arrested by the Mexican Capitan de Salamanca (Francesco Quinn) for trespassing and held at the San Gabriel Mission. The party is charged with stealing the horses they bought from the Mojave (a brand is shown). The Mexicans fear that if they are freed, the party will show other Americans how to go to California. Smith negotiates their expulsion, promising they would never return to California under pain of death. On the way back, they return to the Mohave camp and are attacked; many are killed including Fletcher, who guards Smith and Jacob's narrow escape through a cave. Loved by the Buffalo undergoes a Sun Dance.\n\nThunder Heart Woman's (Tonantzin Carmelo) trapper husband Lebeck is killed in an attack by the Crow, her infant daughter is captured, and she is sold into slavery. Later, Jacob sees her being auctioned off at a trapper rendezvous and attempts to buy her in order to return Thunder Heart Woman to her people. Trapper Johnny Fox (Gary Busey) rifle duels Jacob for the right to purchase her. Jacob is victorious, shooting then stabbing Fox one-handed after being shot in his left forearm. Thunder Heart Woman gives Jacob the wooden medicine wheel necklace as a token of her gratitude. When they return to the tribe, Jacob marries Thunder Heart Woman and begins to live with her family as part of the Lakota tribe.\n\nRunning Fox trades for a horsecart, much to the dismay of his brothers, who see white goods as a corruption of Lakota culture. When Loved by the Buffalo sees Jacob repairing the wheel, he is reminded of a vision he had during his Sun Dance in which a wooden wheel smashes a stone wheel. Loved by the Buffalo realizes that the wooden wheel symbolizes the wagon wheels of the whites and that the stone wheel is the medicine wheel of the Lakota culture. Loved by the Buffalo takes Jacob and Thunder Heart Woman to a sacred hilltop where a stone medicine wheel has been erected and tells him about the four great powers that it symbolizes. Loved by the Buffalo leaves the tribe to try to prevent the vision of Growling Bear from coming to pass.\n\nAfter living among the Lakota people, Jacob decides to take his wife and daughter Margaret Light Shines east to Wheelerton, Virginia. Jacob's family gives Thunder Heart Woman a much colder reception than her family gave him. After living in Wheelerton for a time, Jacob decides to take his family, now including a young son Abraham High Wolf, back west.\n\nThis time, Jacob's brother Jethro (Skeet Ulrich) decides to come along. They are also accompanied by Jacob's three young female cousins; Leah Wheeler (Emily Holmes), Rachel Wheeler (Jessica Capshaw), and Naomi Wheeler (Keri Russell). The three girls have been unlucky in love and are lured by the tales of excitement out west.\n\nMeanwhile, Thunder Heart Woman's two oldest brothers, Dog Star and Running Fox argue over whether or not to adopt white technology. The disagreement comes to a boil and the two agree to part ways, splitting the tribe.\n\nAfter working their way west for several years, the Wheeler clan arrives at Independence, Missouri. Jacob, now with a second son Jacob Junior High Cloud, wants to go west to California or the Oregon country, but Thunder Heart Woman and some of the others wish to remain in Missouri. Jacob eventually convinces the others to go to California and they join a wagon train led by Stephen Hoxie (Beau Bridges) who is a better salesman than a leader. Among the other settlers is a German immigrant preacher named Hobbes (Derek de Lint), a free black family fleeing racial prejudice, and several former mountain men.\n\nThe wagon train passage is filled with dangers: Leah Wheeler is thrown from the wagon during the crossing of a river and drowns, and the young son of the black pioneers is killed by stampeding cattle during a thunder storm. But life also continues: Rachel and Naomi take husbands from among the wagon trail guides. Later, while traversing a pass, a wagon breaks free, knocks Rachel down and runs over her leg, causing a severe compound fracture. The leg eventually becomes infected and must be amputated. Preacher Hobbes is the closest thing to a doctor available, but he botches the operation and Rachel dies.\n\nCholera breaks out, killing the wife of the black pioneer. Those exposed, including Jacob, Thunder Heart Woman, the children, and Jethro must stay behind under quarantine while the main body of the wagon train carries on. Naomi and her husband, who have not been exposed, go on with the others. Jethro is afflicted with symptoms of cholera but recovers, and no new outbreaks occur after Jacob orders that all drinking water be boiled. They rush to catch up with the main body, but find it was attacked by Cheyenne warriors, and all except Naomi were killed.\n\nNaomi, taken into captivity, is sold to Cheyenne chief Prairie Fire (Jay Tavare), who takes her as his wife. The thought of a forced marriage to an Indian is repulsive to Naomi, who has always considered them as barely human savages. She chants nursery rhymes, which put off his amorous advances. In time, she begins to see Prairie Fire in a different light and she grows to become happy in her new life. She eventually gives birth to a son, whom he names One Horn Bull.\n\nJacob returns to the rest of the wagons, and they are soon attacked. The Indians are fought off, but an arrow is shot through Jacob's upper chest, and he begs to be left behind to recover on his own terms as the trail would kill him faster. After the party leaves, Jacob is rescued by a party led by Running Fox, that stumble across him half-dead. After recovering his strength, Jacob spends several months in the mountains. Haunted by the faces of the children he sent on with his wife and brother, Jacob eventually tries to find them in California. He searches several years for his family but cannot find them, and eventually gives them up for dead.\n\nThe Mexican–American War erupts and Jacob joins John C. Frémont's militia to fight the Mexican Army. During a supply stop in one of the settlements, he sees his wife at a distance, but before he can go over to greet her, he sees her and his brother Jethro embrace and kiss. They also have a new child, Cornflower. Dejected that his wife and brother have become romantically involved but not wanting to disrupt their happiness, he decides to leave without making his presence known. Before he goes, he gives the wooden medicine wheel necklace to his young son, who does not realize the man is his father.\n\nMeanwhile, Dog Star and Running Fox are still estranged. The other tribes that have been trading with the whites for rifles, particularly the Crow, have grown stronger, and the Lakota are now at a disadvantage. Seeking guidance, Dog Star visits the stone medicine wheel, where he meets Loved by the Buffalo. Loved by the Buffalo tells his brother that his lifetime quest is to preserve the traditional ways. The whites at the forts refuse to trade pistols to the Lakota, instead giving them whiskey, and drunkenness soon becomes a problem. Loved by the Buffalo also appears to his brother Running Fox in a vision. Running Fox and Dog Star eventually reconcile and agree to no longer trade for white goods.\n\nThunder Heart Woman finds the wooden medicine wheel necklace and realizes that her husband is still alive. She feels that it is best not to go after him, but their daughter Margaret Light Shines Wheeler (Sage Galesi) is determined to find him.\n\nJethro and Thunder Heart Woman remain together in California and a daughter, Corn Flower (Chantelle Webster), is born to them. While working at the Wheeler ranch, now dubbed Rancho Paradiso, Jethro encounters a 49er named Martin Jarrett (Sean Astin) who brings him the first news about the California gold rush. Jethro soon follows him to the nearby American River to prospect for gold, although he returns home each night.\n\nJethro dreams of quick riches but all he finds are a few small grains. Undeterred, he begins to spend more and more time looking for gold. Without Jethro's labor, the ranch begins to run into difficulties, with essential repairs being left undone. Jethro also takes to drinking heavily to counter the frigid waters of the river and becomes abusive towards Thunder Heart Woman and the children. After one too many arguments turn violent, Abe High Wolf Wheeler (Tyler Posey) decides to leave.\n\nJethro's cousin, David Wheeler (Balthazar Getty), arrives as a 49er and becomes Jethro's partner in prospecting for gold. Angered by the successes of a group of Chinese immigrant miners, Jethro and David drive them off and steal their claim. After finding a huge nugget of gold, Jethro and David argue over how they will split their new fortune. After Jethro falls asleep, David steals the nugget and heads toward San Francisco. Jethro follows him and the two exchange gun fire. As David tries to escape in a canoe, the two struggle and both are drowned. To support her family, Thunder Heart Woman starts to sell food and supplies to the miners.\n\nMeanwhile, Margaret Light Shines Wheeler has taken a job in a guest house in San Francisco, but continues to look for her father. Jacob remained with the army, but became disillusioned at the treatment of Native Americans in Oregon and returned to trapping in the mountains in California. After spotting an army unit sporting a Bear Flag, Margaret inquires if any of them know Jacob Wheeler. A sergeant tells her that Jacob is among them and says he will lead her to him. When the two enter a barn, he tries to rape her. Margaret is saved by Ethan Biggs (Daniel Gillies), a British immigrant photographer. Margaret goes to work for Biggs and the two eventually fall in love and marry.\n\nWhile working in the photo studio, a local wheelwright tells Margaret a trapper in the mountains has fixed a broken wagon wheel for some settlers. Certain that it's her father, Margaret convinces Biggs to join her looking for the trapper's camp. When they find the camp, Jacob at first takes them for thieves and nearly shoots them. Margaret shows him the wooden medicine wheel necklace and he realizes that she is his daughter. Jacob then goes to Rancho Paradiso and is reunited with his family.\n\nOn the plains, white encroachment has become an undeniable problem for the tribes. Running Fox and Dog Star join several other chiefs—including Conquering Bear (Graham Greene)—at the signing of the Treaty of Fort Laramie (1851). All three agree that the peace is precarious but decide to give the agreement a chance.\n\nA little later, Loved by the Buffalo is visiting Conquering Bear's village. A cow escapes from a passing Mormon wagon train and rampages through the village, causing considerable damage. The villagers try to give the cow back to the settlers, but they become frightened at the sight of the Indians and run away. The tribe decides to keep the cow as compensation for the damage and butcher it. Soldiers soon come, demanding that the cow be returned and the \"thief\" be handed over. Conquering Bear tries to explain the situation to the soldiers but his efforts are thwarted by a drunken scout who intentionally mistranslates the negotiations. The soldiers then open fire on the village and the warriors fight back. Many are killed on both sides, including Conquering Bear. (Note: this event is based on the August 1854 Grattan massacre.)\n\nA few years later, another Wheeler cousin, Samson Wheeler (Matthew Modine) has moved to Lawrence, Kansas with his family—his wife Susannah (Rebecca Jenkins), sons Aaron (Greyston Holt) and Jeremiah (James Kirk), and adopted daughter Clara (Rachael Leigh Cook). An anti-slavery Unionist himself, Samson allies with the abolitionist Jayhawkers during the days of \"Bleeding Kansas\" as tensions rise in the months leading up to the Civil War. He refuses to leave the town despite being threatened by Border Ruffian leader Bloody Bill Anderson (Christian Bocher) for hiring Henry Foster (Kwesi Ameyaw), a black worker. Lawrence is later attacked by Anderson's bushwackers and Quantrill's Raiders. In the raid, Samson, Susannah and their two sons are killed, leaving Clara as the only survivor. She then leaves Kansas to seek out her cousins in Omaha, Nebraska.\n\nJacob Wheeler's sons take different paths. Abe Wheeler (Christian Kane) has become a rider for the Pony Express. Despite being an excellent rider, he loses his job when the Pony Express is superseded by the telegraph. Jacob Wheeler, Jr. (Tyler Christopher) also decides to leave the family ranch to strike out on his own. Leaving California for the great plains, his knowledge of the Lakota language is valuable to the army and he is hired as a scout.\n\nDog Star's son, Brings Horse (Nathaniel Arcand) is shot by an army sniper when he climbs a telegraph pole to investigate the wires strung from the top and cutting them. Sleeping Bear (Nathan Lee Chasing His Horse), Dog Star's surviving son, pledges revenge against the whites for what they have done.\n\nIn December 1863, Clara Wheeler makes her journey to Omaha and finds her cousins, Daniel Wheeler (Lance Henriksen), his wife Esther (Jane E. Goold) and his children Robert (Warren Kole), Jackson (Glen Powell Jr.), Thomas (Kurt Sorenson) and Lilly (Mia Stallard). Daniel is pursuing the family trade as a wheelwright. He is not happy to see Clara (in the previous episode Samson mentioned that he never was on good terms with Daniel, although the reason is never revealed) and intends to send her away to the war-raged East, but he is persuaded by his wife and his son Robert to take Clara in, on the condition that Robert takes the sole responsibility for Clara.\n\nThe race is on as the Central Pacific and Union Pacific Railroads lay down tracks across the U.S., bringing East and West together. Jacob Wheeler's son Abe joins the construction crew of the Central Pacific railroad, working east from Sacramento. Working conditions are hard, and many workers leave to prospect for gold in the Californian goldfields. Chinese workers (\"Coolies\") are brought in from San Francisco to supplement the work crews. Abe meets and befriends Chow-Ping Yen (Garrett Wang), and they work in difficult conditions into and through the Sierra Nevada. Chow-Ping saves Abe's life when he almost falls from a bosun's chair while setting dynamite to construct a shelf along a cliff face.\n\nIn March 1864, while photographing California Governor Frederick Low, Ethan Biggs and his wife, Margaret Light Shines (Jacob's daughter), decide to see the Indian Territory, and they take a stagecoach to Denver. In Denver, they hear Colonel John Chivington (Tom Berenger) speak against the Indians and recruit for the Third Colorado Cavalry. Ethan and Margaret's stagecoach is ambushed by Cheyenne warriors after leaving Denver. The other passengers are killed, but they are captured by Roman Nose (Rod Rondeaux) and taken to the camp of Black Kettle. Although the Cheyenne are hostile at first, Ethan and Margaret demonstrate their photographic equipment to the curious Cheyenne, and come to appreciate the Indian's hospitality.\n\nWhile Ethan photographs the people of Black Kettle's camp, Margaret works to establish peace between the Cheyenne and the local Governor and Army. On September 28, 1864, Black Kettle holds council with Colorado Territory Governor John Evans, Colonel Chivington and Major Wynkoop (Arron Shiver), to ensure peace. (Major Wynkoop's character is based on Silas Soule.) The Indians make clear their desire for peace, but the negotiations end inconclusively.\n\nMargaret and Ethan decide to continue their journey, but, on November 29, 1864, the night before they have planned to leave, Colonel Chivington attacks Black Kettle's village at the head of the Third Colorado Cavalry. Most of the village, including Ethan, are killed at the Sand Creek Massacre. Margaret is saved by Black Kettle and flees with the survivors.\n\nFurther altercations between the Indians and the American settlers leads Red Cloud (Raoul Trujillo) to begin to gather the forces that will lead to Red Cloud's War. On December 21, 1866, a large band of Cheyenne and Sioux under Crazy Horse (Tatanka Means) attack a supply train near Fort Phil Kearny. Capt. Fetterman (Dylan Kenin) leads a relief party of 80 men. Ignoring orders not to venture beyond Lodge Trail Ridge, he led his troops into an ambush. He and his entire party were killed in the attack, later called the Fetterman Massacre.\n\nGeneral William Tecumseh Sherman meets with Black Kettle and other Indian Chiefs, and Margaret watches another treaty being signed. Despite the treaty, Col George Armstrong Custer (Jonathan Scarfe) and the 7th Cavalry attack Black Kettle's Cheyenne village at the Battle of Washita River on November 27, 1868. Jacob Jr. has been serving as a scout for the U.S. Army with Custer. Margaret is taken captive with other Indian women. They are taken to an Army Fort, where she is reunited with her brother Jacob Jr., who tries to help her escape. She refuses, insisting on staying with her adopted Indian family. Eventually, the U.S. Army abandons some forts, and the second Treaty of Fort Laramie creates the Great Sioux reservation.\n\nAbe Wheeler continues to work on the railroad until the First Transcontinental Railroad was completed on May 10, 1869, when the driving of the Golden Spike joins the Union Pacific and Central Pacific Railroads at Promontory Summit in Utah. Abe parts company with Chow-Ping.\n\nMeanwhile, Daniel Wheeler is seeking fortune by collaborating with Central Pacific Railroads and creating railroad boomtowns, exploiting the debaucheries of new settlers. He starts with North Platte, Nebraska with his sons Robert and Jackson as assistants, and by May 1868 they are in Cheyenne. Robert brings Clara along, and romance develops between them, while Daniel strongly disapproves their relationship. Robert disagrees with Daniel's corruptive way of business, and grows distant from his father. After the Transcontinental Railroad is completed, Robert and Clara decide to strike out on their own, leaving behind the life dominated by the greedy Daniel.\n\nGold is discovered in the Black Hills in 1874. The Black Hills are considered by the Lakota to be the axis mundi, or center of the world, and the 1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie granted the Indians ownership of the mountain range. Now, settlers trespass on their land to prospect for gold, and the U.S. Army moves in to take possession. Conflict over control of the region sparks the Black Hills War, the last major Indian War on the Great Plains.\n\nRed Cloud (Raoul Trujillo) continues to talk of peace with the whites at Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, but many young men leave to join Sitting Bull (Eric Schweig), including cousins White Bird (Kalani Queypo)—son of Sleeping Bear and grandson of Dog Star (Gil Birmingham)—and Red Lance (Eddie Spears)—grandson of Running Fox (Russell Means) and son of White Crow (David Midthunder). Red Lance's younger brother, Voices That Carry (Nakotah Larance), wants to go with his brother, but is required to stay behind with his grand-uncle Dog Star because of his youth. Red Cloud thinks that the \"peace talkers\" from Washington will honor the Treaty of Fort Laramie and keep other whites out of the Black Hills.\n\nRobert Wheeler is operating a general store in Hillsgate, Dakota Territory, while Clara spends her spare time teaching the town's children. Their store prospers as a result of the Black Hills Gold Rush and the many who rush into the area to find gold. In October 1874, Robert agrees to take a prospector into the Black Hills for $10, but they are attacked by two bushwhackers and the prospector is killed. Robert kills the two bushwhackers in turn with his Sharps Buffalo Rifle. Though he is safely home, Clara is angry with Robert for risking his life to make money. Clara buys a typewriter from a traveling salesman. Robert invests the profits from the store in about 100 Buffalo hides for $3 each, expecting to make a profit from the craze for buffalo bedspreads and overcoats, but finds that fashions have moved on and he cannot sell them to Douglas Hillman (Judge Reinhold) for more than $1 each. Instead, he gives them to the needy Indians at a nearby reservation. While there, he meets Captain Richard Henry Pratt (Keith Carradine), who commends his actions.\n\nMargaret Light Shines (Irene Bedard) has been a prisoner of the Army since the Battle of Washita River, but she finds purpose helping the women and orphaned children at the same Indian Reservation as Red Cloud. Voices That Carry runs away from the camp of Red Cloud to join his father, White Crow, with Sitting Bull.\n\nIn June 1876, Jacob Wheeler Jr. (Tyler Christopher) is still a scout for Lieutenant Colonel George Armstrong Custer (Jonathan Scarfe) and the 7th U.S. Cavalry. On the morning of the Battle of the Little Bighorn, Custer dispatches Jacob Jr. with a message to Captain Frederick Benteen. Jacob Jr. gives a letter for his parents to a friend who is assigned to Major Marcus Reno's group, in case he should not survive Custer's plan. As he foresaw, Jacob is killed before he finds Benteen, as Crazy Horse and a Lakota-Northern Cheyenne combined force wipe out Custer's cavalry detachment. Among those who are also killed is White Bird. Voices That Carry brings the body of his cousin back to Dog Star in Red Cloud's camp.\n\nAfter the final letter from Jacob Jr. reaches them, Jacob (John Terry) and Thunder Heart Woman (Sheila Tousey) go to Hillsgate in an effort to find Jacob Jr.'s resting place. They meet Robert and Clara, who take them to the scene of the battle. It is then learnt that Robert and Clara had a son, William, who died from a fever. Clara is unable to let go of the painful memory and there is some strain in her relationship with Robert.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Sioux and their allies later in 1876, the United States \"purchased\" the Black Hills region (no actual purchase was ever completed and this area is under dispute to this day).\n\nIn 1879, Richard Henry Pratt returns to Hillsgate, and invites Robert and Clara to join him in teaching at an experimental school in Pennsylvania designed to \"civilize\" Native American children. Pratt persuades the Lakota that their children need to learn the white men's ways. He takes 125 Lakota children to the Carlisle Indian Industrial School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. President Rutherford B. Hayes had arranged for the Carlisle Barracks to be made available. Among the children is Voices That Carry, who encourages the other Native Americans to resist assimilation. Voices That Carry's numerous attempts to undermine the process upset Pratt, but Robert tries to convince the boy to work hard so he can record the story of his people. Voices That Carry and Robert form a tentative friendship. After 6 months in Carlisle, Robert falls out with Pratt over his strict teaching methods, and heads back for home with Clara, who is now bearing their second child. Before they set off, Clara leaves her typewriter to Voices That Carry.\n\nTen years have passed since the end of Episode 5. Robert (Craig Sheffer) and Clara Wheeler (Joanna Going) return home, disillusioned by the school they have been hired to run, and Clara begins to teach Native American children on the reservation. Loved by the Buffalo (Joseph M. Marshall III) believes he has found the foretold prophet when a mysterious Indian named Wovoka (Jonathan Joss) inspires his people with the Ghost Dance and a vision of their restored land at a Paiute reservation, the Yerington Indian Colony near Yerington, Nevada. But the ritual stirs up more fear among those who wish to contain the Native Americans. Voices That Carry (Chaske Spencer) is reunited with his brother Red Lance (Eddie Spears). Within weeks, the Ghost Dance becomes a phenomenon in the reservation. Local white governors and suppliers, who are tasked with the job of providing clothing and food for the Natives, become fearful of an Indian uprising. Local newspaper reporters overly exaggerate the dance as being sadistic and rebellious in nature. Margaret Light Shines is living in the reservation to help tend to the local children and sick. One of the newspaper reporters, not realizing she speaks English and knows how to use a camera, confronts her and trades his camera for a Ghost Shirt. Margaret Light Shines then uses the camera to record her version of the history.\n\nAfter Sitting Bull is \"accidentally\" killed by Indian Police sent by the Indian Agent, the Ghost Dance rebellion grows, which in turn leads to more brutality toward the Native Americans. Indian Agent Daniel Royer (David Paymer), fearful of the Ghost Dance, sends for help and Colonel James W. Forsyth arrives with the 7th Cavalry Regiment. The 7th Cavalry regiment moves outward from the reservation into the hills and valleys restricted of Indian settlement where Big Foot (George Aguilar) and his followers are hiding out. Fearful of the slaughter of his people who are poorly armed, Big Foot agrees to return to the reservation peacefully.\n\nJacob Wheeler (John Terry) and his wife Thunder Heart Woman (Sheila Tousey) decide to move to South Dakota to settle in with the people they care about—Robert and Clara. Margaret Light Shines walks past and sees a missing person search notice (put up by Robert) and realizes her family is nearby. She is taken back by Robert and reunites with her parents.\n\nWhile on the journey back to the reservation settlement, the groups stop and rest at a valley called Wounded Knee. While there, Colonel Forsyth requests Big Foot's men turn over all their weapons. They do so peacefully; however, when Forsyth sees how few arms Big Foot's men are carrying, he becomes angry. Believing his reports that Big Foot's men were well armed, the soldiers begin tearing apart the camp, taking anything that could be used as a weapon, including sticks and utensils. One of Big Foot's warriors, Black Coyote (Tokala Clifford), is deaf and did not hear the request to turn in his gun. When a U.S. soldier attempts to pry it from his hands, the gun goes off by accident. The American soldiers then open fire at will upon Big Foot and his people. While Big Foot's men rush to pick up their weapons and defend themselves, the women and children run in opposite directions only to be mowed down by the 7th Cavalry's gunfire. Most of the Natives, including Big Foot, are slaughtered. Robert Wheeler, who was attached to the 7th Cavalry in supplying Big Foot's men with blankets and food, survives the massacre but was injured by artillery.\n\nThe survivors of the massacre are marched back to the reservation. Word goes round rapidly about the slaughter and Margaret Light Shines goes out to the field at Wounded Knee to photograph the massacre. While there, she meets and photographs the newspaper reporter who sold her the camera, who is looking with horror at the sight of the hundreds of frozen dead bodies which he indirectly had contributed to. She is also reunited with her uncle Loved By the Buffalo, who is performing the death rites for the deceased. Margaret brings him to meet her parents, Thunder Heart Woman and Jacob Wheeler.\n\nLoved By the Buffalo and Jacob Wheeler meet again, closing a circle that began many years ago, and Loved By the Buffalo comes to realize that his destiny was not to prevent what was destined to happen, but to preserve it and the memory of his people; to teach the young Lakota children the ways of their people. \"So long as there are still a few Lakota left who understand the traditional ways of their people, the tribe, history, and the memories and lessons of our past can still be preserved so that future generations may also learn from them.\"\n\nThe final scene shows Loved By the Buffalo sitting with a group of Lakota children, Margaret, and Thunder Heart Woman, teaching them the past of the people and his own experiences. At the same time miles away, Robert and Clara are expecting another child. Jacob is sitting on the porch with Robert and Clara's son Jedediah (Dax Ansley), telling him about his own experiences, past, and the lessons he has to teach.\n\n\nListed below are the major characters and the actors who play them. Some of the characters are portrayed at different ages by different actors.\n\nSources:\n\n\"Into the West\" received 16 Emmy Award nominations in 2006, the most of any program in its year. It won two:\n\nThe other 14 nominations were:\n\n\nIt received one Screen Actors Guild nomination in 2006.\n\n\nA four disc DVD box set was released on October 4, 2005. There are producer, director, and cast interviews among the six episodes of the series and other various features.\n\nA two-disc album of Geoff Zanelli's music was released in 2013 by La-La Land Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996729", "title": "Johann Heinrich Schulze", "text": "Johann Heinrich Schulze\n\nJohann Heinrich Schulze (12 May 1687 – 10 October 1744) was a German professor and polymath.\n\nSchulze studied medicine, chemistry, philosophy and theology and became a professor in Altdorf and Halle for anatomy and several other subjects.\n\nSchulze is best known for his discovery that the darkening in sunlight of various substances mixed with silver nitrate is due to the light, not the heat as other experimenters believed, and for using the phenomenon to temporarily capture shadows.\n\nSchulze's experiments with silver nitrate were undertaken in about 1717. He found that a slurry of chalk and nitric acid into which some silver had been dissolved was darkened by sunlight, but not by exposure to the heat from a fire. To provide an interesting demonstration of its darkening by light, he applied stencils of words to a bottle filled with the mixture and put it in direct sunlight, which produced copies of the text in dark characters on the surface of the contents. The impressions persisted until they were erased by shaking the bottle or until overall exposure to light obliterated them. Because they were produced by the action of light, an extremely broad and literal definition of what a photograph is may allow even these fluid, ephemeral sun printings to qualify, and on that basis many German sources credit Schulze as the inventor of photography.\n\nThough Schulze's work did not provide a means of permanently preserving an image, it did provide a foundation for later efforts toward that end. Thomas Wedgwood and Humphry Davy produced more substantial but still impermanent shadow images on coated paper and leather around the year 1800. Nicéphore Niépce succeeded in photographing camera images on paper coated with silver chloride in 1816 but he, too, could not make his results light-fast. The first permanent camera photograph of this type was made in 1835 by Henry Fox Talbot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1996730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996730", "title": "Commerzbank", "text": "Commerzbank\n\nCommerzbank AG is a major German bank operating as a universal bank, headquartered in Frankfurt am Main. In the 2019 financial year, the bank was the second largest in Germany by the total value of its balance sheet. The bank is present in more than 50 countries around the world and provides almost a third of Germany's trade finance. In 2017, it handled 13 million customers in Germany and 5 million customers in Central and Eastern Europe. Commerzbank is a member of the Cash Group.\n15% of the shares are owned by the Federal Republic of Germany and 85% are in free float.\n\nThe bank has been subject to several corruption investigations, paying $US1.5 billion in fines in 2015.\n\nOn February 26, 1870, mainly Hanseatic merchants, merchant bankers and private bankers founded the Commerzbank and Disconto Bank in Hamburg. Shipowner C. Woermann was the first chairman of the supervisory board of Commerz- und Disconto-Bank from 1870. In the founding consortium, the following banks were represented:\n\n\nIn 1873, the subsidiary London and Hanseatic Bank was founded, which was active until the First World War. In Germany, Commerzbank was initially active in Hamburg until 1897 branches were built in Berlin and Frankfurt am Main. After the merger in 1905 with the Berliner Bank, founded in 1871, the focus shifted increasingly to Berlin.\n\nIn 1920, Commerzbank AG merged with in Magdeburg to form \"Commerz- und Privat-Bank AG\", thereby gaining a dense branch network in the provinces of Saxony and Thuringia. In the early 1920s, many smaller banks were taken over (including the Hessian Bank Association) and in 1929 it merged with the in Frankfurt am Main. In 1927 Commerzbank took a large loan of 20 million dollars in ten-year gold notes at 5.5% at the American Chase National Bank.\n\nIn 1931, during the Great Depression Commerzbank, ran into difficulties. The Reich government under Chancellor Heinrich Brüning decided in February 1932 to merge Commerzbank with , which had a dense branch network in northern and western Germany. Majority of shares of this bank were bought by government and the Reichsbank.\n\nIn 1937, the nationalized shares were then transferred back to private shareholders. In 1940, the name Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft, which had already been used in public, was adopted and the logo changed to \"C\" with side wings. Through Aryanization of the property of Jews displaced or murdered during the Holocaust, Commerzbank participated and benefited mostly through brokerage commissions. From 1940 to 1944, Commerzbank opened several subsidiaries in countries occupied by the German Reich, including the Netherlands, Belgium, Estonia and Latvia. Commerzbank fell back from third to fourth place among the major banks by total assets in the 1940s.\n\nWith the division of Europe after World War II, three regional banks were united in 1958 to form Commerzbank AG, which had its headquarters in Düsseldorf. Commerzbank stepped up its economic financing activities and started expanding around the globe. From 1970 onwards, the bank's administrative activities were shifted to Frankfurt am Main, which has been its legal domicile since 1990.\n\nCommerzbank suffered reversals in a disastrous foray into investment banking in the first half decade of the 2000s and eventually shut down its Commerzbank Securities investment banking unit run by Mehmet Dalman and Roman Schmidt after Chairman Klaus-Peter Müller labelled it a \"problem child\" and a review by consulting firm Mercer Oliver Wyman which concluded that Commerzbank Securities lacked a viable business model. What was left of Commerzbank Securities was folded into a division of the commercial bank called Corporates and Markets.\n\nFurther mergers, acquisitions and restructures saw the group grow to servicing over 4 million customers in 1998, 6 million customers in 2001 and 15 million post the global financial crisis oriented takeover of Dresdner Bank from Allianz for €5.5 billion in 2008. Commerzbank was hit hard by the financial crisis and received an €18 billion ($22.3 billion) state bailout. In September 2016, Commerzbank planned to cut 9,600 jobs or about a fifth of its workforce in 4 years.\n\nIn late 2019, Commerzbank entered into talks with Petrus Advisers to buy its 7.5% stake in Comdirect and take over the entire online bank.\n\nAs of December 2018, the bank's two largest shareholders were the Government of Germany (15.6%) and Cerberus Capital Management (5.01%).\n\nFor more than a decade, Commerzbank was involved in laundering hundreds of billions of U.S. dollars out of Iran, Sudan and Myanmar, against United States sanctions. Commerzbank agreed to pay $US1.5 billion in fines and dismiss several employees for their role in laundering US$253 billion, and for helping the Japanese company Olympus Corporation orchestrate accounting fraud.\n\nIn 2017, Frankfurt prosecutors, together with federal crime police and tax officials, conducted searches of Commerzbank offices as well as the flats of three suspects in Frankfurt and nearby Hanau. The police raid was about a \"tax evasion probe in which several current and former managers are suspected of evading €40 million in taxes via dividend stripping, also known as \"cum-ex\" transactions\". The investigation also extended to trades in 2008 at Dresdner Bank, which was taken over by Commerzbank in 2009. Commerzbank said \"it proactively notified the authorities with the preliminary results of that investigation and is cooperating fully\". In 2019, Cologne prosecutors again raided Commerzbank's Frankfurt headquarters as part of the criminal investigation.\n\nIt was announced in July 2019 that Commerzbank was being investigated by the European Central Bank and BaFin for facilitating its subsidiary mBank's toxic financial product offering in Poland, as well as for the linked potential tax evasion resulting from Commerzbank's financing of mBank's CHF-linked toxic financial products.\n\n"}
